Vampire: The Masquerade- Shadows Over Plaintry
By: Paddy
Writing Start Date: Feb 27th, 2024
Writing End Date: in progress
[ Tags: Vampire The Masquerade, Werewolf The Apocalypse, Hunter The Reckoning, Wraith The Oblivion, World Of Darkness; Genre: Horror, Urban Fantasy, Drama, Thriller, Intrigue, Romance, Gothic Punk ]
Maya finds herself pulled in to the machinations of Kindred Society in her town, drawn into a strange world- a world of darkness. A world that she isn't quite prepared for. What will she do and how will she react? Will she hold on to what makes her human?
Chapter 1: Hot Coffee
The following events take place during the year 201X.
The sun was beginning to set, casting a warm orange glow across the bustling streets.
In the heart of the town, stood a café that was frequented by the locals (young adults in particular), who would often loiter around the area after school or work.
This included 2 women- a brunette and a redhead, both clad in casual wear, sipping on hot coffee and conversing as they leaned against the counter.
"So, are you free this Saturday?" the redhead, a woman in her early-30s, asks the other.
"I guess I could clear my schedule," the brunette, a woman slightly younger than the former, replies.
She takes a long sip of her piping hot brew and asks, "What do you have planned, Maya?"
"Ah, so, my friend at the town hall, she's invited me to this fundraising party for the mayoral candidate," the redhead, Maya, says with a grin.
Maya nudges her friend, "I'm pretty sure the candidate's single and looking to mingle, and I think she's your type."
"Really now," the brunette, Annette, gives Maya a look. "Are you trying to play matchmaker again?"
"Hey, I happen to be quite a good maker of matches, heh heh!" Maya insists. "It's not like you're seeing anybody or anything, right? You'd be the perfect, ahem...candidate!"
"Well, it's not like I'm looking to meet the person of my dreams or anything," Annette shrugs. "I'm just looking for a couple of nights of fun and somebody to warm me up, y'know."
"Aw, come on, Annette," Maya groans. "You're so...hot, I'm sure there's someone who's willing to do a lil more than that! And besides, don't you ever get lonely? There's gotta be somebody who'll um...satisfy you, in all aspects."
"Y'know, I'm not sure if I'm looking for satisfaction at the moment. More like a desire to move up in life," Annette states.
Annette stares into her coffee cup, "If I had to pick, I'd want somebody with a similar outlook on life and stuff. Maybe they could take me out to a really nice dinner, and we'd go dancing, and then afterwards..."
"Hmm, maybe we could find you somebody who's into that whole BD--"
"Shhhh!" Annette suddenly shushes, gesturing over to the counter where a young man in a hoodie was paying for his order, "You wanna make everybody in this town aware of our personal lives?!"
"Uh, sorry," Maya says, pensively. "But, I mean, who cares, right? Who's gonna hear? It's not like we're famous or something. Anyways, it's not like people in this town don't have deep secrets of their own."
Maya looks around and goes on, "You know what they say about small towns like ours: 'The smaller the town, the bigger the secrets.'"
"Secrets," Annette sighs, a slight venom in her voice when mentioning "secrets".
"I'd like to uncover a few of those sometimes, Maya. I wanna know what makes the people here tick."
"Yeah, I don't know about that," Maya says, sheepishly taking another sip of her coffee. "Like, that guy over there. What do you think he's hiding? Seriously, who wears a freakin' hoodie in this weather? It's like, 80 degrees."
"I dunno. He might have some kinda scar or tattoo that he's embarrassed of," Annette replies while staring at the man.
"That, or something else."
Annette immediately turns to Maya and stares at her, "Aw, c'mon, Maya, not the vampire thing again. Can't you just drop it? I'm getting kinda tired of hearing you say, 'Oooooh, There's vampires in this town' every other day. I'm surprised the people around here haven't kicked us out yet."
Annette grimaces, "We're like the village idiots, always spreading rumors. We should be lucky we haven't been fired from our jobs yet."
Maya takes hold of Annette's hand tightly and says, "Look, all I'm saying is that you CAN'T deny that there are unexplained things in this town. Like, have you ever woken up and felt pale, hungry, dizzy, kinda like a y'know, y'know...vamp--"
Annette isn't having any of it, "Vampire bite, really? How many times have we had this talk, Maya? Vampires, werewolves, wraiths, demons, they're all the same- myth. NONE of them exist, OK?"
She glares at Maya, "They're just myths and legends, scary stories we tell little kids to make them behave, y'know? A deterrent of sorts."
Maya sighs and shakes her head, "Maybe. Then how do you explain the moved furniture in my place, Annette? You said I moved it and forgot, but I still can't get it out of my mind, the feeling of someone...no...something crawling in bed with me at night, the whispers, the noises, the--"
"Look, let's just forget about the Dracula nonsense, OK, Maya? We have ENOUGH on our plate as it is."
"Hmph. OK, but, if IS a vampire, who do you think it could possibly be?"
Annette is stumped. She takes a long sip of her coffee, "Beats me. Could be one of the big honchos in this town or it could be a vagrant. Anyway, let's not go around hurling accusations. Our rep in this town is already dangling as it is."
"Fine, fine."
Chapter 2: Plots Within Plots Within Plots
Meanwhile, yesterday night...
The young man sits on a chair in a long-abandoned auditorium, surrounded by an eerie aura.
He's dressed in a gray hoodie and jeans. His face obscured by a shadow. He's sitting patiently, waiting for the right time to speak.
"This is a Masquerade breach waiting to happen!" One of the voices echoes.
Another voice flares up, "Act now, finish her before she finds out."
A third, more rational voice interjected, "I wholeheartedly agree with the first. We ought to act swiftly, before our plan is derailed by her machinations."
The young man in the hoodie nods his head.
"So, you have decided then?" the first voice asks.
"We shall act as soon as the time is right," the young man in the hoodie states in a firm manner.
A fifth voice emerges, "Perhaps there's another solution to our...conundrum. One which you're not seeing. Perhaps we could Embrace her."
"And you think she'll be willing?" the second voice fumes, angrily.
"We can't afford to dawdle," the fifth voice says. "The fundraiser is tomorrow night. We need a decision now. Prince Lucas?"
The third voice, belonging to Prince Lucas speaks, "We have a lot to consider. Unlike my predecessor, I do not wish to authorize Embraces willy-nilly, is that what you call it? What say you, Arman?"
The first voice speaks up, respectfully, yet firmly, "It is unbecoming of The Ventrue to Embrace someone of...low standing."
The man in the hoodie mutters something under his breath.
The Prince noticed this with the eyes of an eagle and immediately says, "Dylan, is there something you wish to say? Please, all opinions are valid here."
"Typical Ventrue snobs," the young man in the hoodie and jeans, Dylan, the fourth voice, remarks.
He dusts something off his pants, "I check in on her every now and then. Besides, it's not like she knows much anyway. Her friend, Annette keeps her...in check, for lack of a better term. An Embrace would open a whole lotta unknowns."
The Ventrue snaps back, "Watch your words, Duskborn...I can make things in this town very unpleasant for--"
The Prince, sensing an argument, immediately interjects, "Enough. There are more...pressing matters at hand. Ginny, a penny for your thoughts?"
The second voice, Ginny, speaks, angrier than usual, "The SI is all over the place. One slip up. One slip up and our asses will be fryin' out in the sun! I say we drain the bitch tonight."
The Prince raises his eyebrows at the suggestion, "I would think the Brujah would be accustomed to such impulsive acts, but a Lasombra like yourself? I'm rather surprised, Ginny."
Ginny scoffs, "Don't patronize me, your highness. We have the right to self-preservation. My Clan has a reputation for doing what it takes. Besides, your Ravnos buddies haven't been subtle these past few nights, your highness."
The Prince, caught off-guard by that remark, sternly replies, "It's a difficult balancing act, Ginny. But, we must stay united. We cannot afford infighting. I will see to it that the those of my Clan are dealt with accordingly."
He turns his attention to an elderly lady, "Now, Eleanor, you suggested an Embrace? Is the Tremere of this town...lacking in some way?"
The fifth voice, belonging to Eleanor, responds, "The woman seems quite compelling. Moreover, Dylan has been kind enough to share what he knows of her and her friend's work at that magazine of theirs. Nimbus? Is that right, Dylan, dear? They've got quite a following. We could use someone with that kind of influence."
Arman scoffs, "I could buy that entire thing in hours. Or have it shut down entirely. Her skills are nothing special, from what your dear Dylan has told us. Mediocre. Tch."
Dylan, angered, immediately stands up and shouts, "Listen, asshole, you got a problem with me? Let's take it outside. You. Me. One-on-one, asshole. No bullshit, either. Let's just get it done. And no, I'm not scared of your fuckin' bodyguard, Arman."
The Prince sighs, shakes his head, and appeals, "Please, gentlemen, let us not get distracted by our petty differences. If what Eleanor is saying holds any merit, then we ought to consider an Embrace, at the very least."
"It does hold merit, my liege. The fundraiser will be a good opportunity to get to know this Maya woman and that friend of hers a bit more."
"How do you propose we get to know her 'a bit more'," the Prince rubs his chin as he asks.
"Simple. A little chat. Some flirtation. I have just the plan," Eleanor states, assuredly.
"Hmmm," the Prince thinks to himself, stroking his chin once more.
Ginny chimes in, "Our 'friends' down south just took care of a couple of mid-level SI goons. You really wanna play 20 questions with some bitch, who could be working for them?"
"What do you suggest then, Ginny? Do we just drain her?" the Prince asks, slightly perturbed.
"Yes," Ginny bluntly replies. "Besides, I've gotten kinda used to the taste of her blood. She's got a bit of a spicy kick to her."
"Gross," Dylan grimaces.
"My sources tell me the Military Intelligence Brigade is operating in this very town. And my sources are never wrong," Arman reminds the Prince. "Therefore, we cannot afford even the slightest Masquerade breach, my liege."
"Well, then," the Prince sighs. "We shall approach discreetly. Attend to more pressing matters in the meantime. Dylan, I want you to find out what you can about this MIB operation."
Dylan silently nods in the affirmative.
"And...when do we strike, Prince," Ginny asks, clearing her throat.
"Not yet," the Prince bluntly states.
He clasps his hands together, "We must first weigh our options. Eleanor, approach this matter discreetly. Test the proverbial waters. See if this Maya woman is worthy of the Embrace. If so, she will be the responsibility of Clan Tremere, as is Tradition, when the time is right."
The Prince scratches the back of his head, "Until then, keep her within arm's reach. She may have connections elsewhere. I do not wish to deal with any more complications."
The Prince clears his throat, turns away from the others, and contemplates, "There is one more opinion I would like to consider, and that is the one of my Sheriff, Eunice."
With that, the Prince beckons his Sheriff to come forward.
A middle-aged woman clad in a tank top and sweat pants steps into view as she walks up to the Prince.
She stands upright and dryly speaks, "As Sheriff, I suggest keeping this Maya woman within striking distance. If she does turn out to work for our enemies or an agent provocateur, then I'm sure you can find a way to make her regret it."
"As for Embracing her, I wouldn't rush into it like Geoffrey, your predecessor," the Sheriff says, folding her arms as she does so.
The Prince blinks and looks at the floor, "Hmmm, a balanced opinion. Very well. I must be heading out now. I bid you all adieu. We shall see each other at the fundraiser gala, yes?"
Everyone nods and mutters in the affirmative except for Eleanor, "I shall send my Childe, Lucile in my place. She will assess whether Maya is Kindred material, Tremere material in particular. If she is worthy, I shall consult with the Elders and Regents of my Clan. Is that acceptable, my liege?"
The Prince thinks for a minute, then nods, "Very well, Eleanor. I shall leave you to it. However, be warned, if she does prove to be more trouble than worth, then I will be forced to act swiftly."
Everyone nods, except for Ginny, who stands up, brushes herself off, and heads out the door. She stops for a minute and says, "Fuckin' A, I'm hungry."
Arman gets up elegantly, shakes the dust out of his pants, and says, "I shall meet you at the gala, my liege. I have other Clan-related matters to attend to tonight."
The Prince nods, "Very well, Arman."
Eleanor sits for a while, as if contemplating something, then says, "It has been a while since my Childe has been out of her Haven. Perhaps I shall help her brush-up on her people skills. She was always a...different one, Lucile."
The Sheriff chuckles, "Great. A nerdy wallflower."
Eleanor says her farewell to the Prince and leaves.
"Well, Dylan, the night is still young. Any plans?" The Prince asks, showing some concern for the Thin-Blood.
"I got at a shift at the Amazon Warehouse in an hour," Dylan murmurs, not at all looking forward to it.
The Prince nods, "Very well. I do hope you keep me apprised of any developments. Oh, and Dylan? I need you to gather as much as you can about this MIB operation. This is very important to our continued survival, my friend."
Dylan nods and gets up, "Sure. Got it." There appears to be a slight hint of disinterest in his voice.
"Good."
With that, the Prince and the Sheriff turn to leave the auditorium.
As they exit, The Sheriff asks The Prince, "Got a place to rest during the day? I could make arrangements if you or your Ravnos are having accommodation problems."
The Prince looks at her, smiles and says, "Oh, Eunice, I will be fine. I do, however, miss my RV. Regardless, I hope to see you there at the gala as well. There is no need for me to be here any longer. Goodnight."
"Of course. With all those movers and shakers, I gotta be there. Ever since the Nosferatu were driven outta town, there's been a power vacuum here."
Nature abhors a vacuum, power-hungry Kindred even more so.
The Prince lets out a sigh, "One of the many...questionable decisions of my predecessor. You served under him, Eunice. What was he like? Please, do not...'sugarcoat' it as they often tend to do."
Eunice lets out a slight smirk before replying, "All due respect? He didn't have the balls to run this town. I bust skulls for The Camarilla and the town of Plaintry, but Geoffrey was more interested in bolstering our numbers, consequences be damned."
She cracks her knuckles, "Of course, all it took was one big-time Lasombra Elder to show up, next thing ya know, those damn Sewer Rats were kicked outta town, runnin' scared, tails between their scrawny legs. Heh heh."
"Oh, yes. Quite a...humbling experience for our beloved Prince. I never quite got the specifics of what happened. And to be honest, I'm not sure I want to know. Especially when The Night Clan are involved. Yet, your remarks about him seemed quite...cavalier."
He pauses for a few seconds before asking, "Was it not you who delivered Final Death on dear old Geoffrey?"
The Sheriff, for a split second, is taken aback, but regains composure and firmly replies, "My first loyalties are with the Ivory Tower, Prince Lucas. Second, to this town. I did what I did in full accordance with our sacred Traditions and the approval of those 2 Archons."
"Hmmm, there is no arguing with that. It was a quick Final Death, yes?"
"Speedy," Eunice replies, trying her best not to look offended. "As the Sheriff of Plaintry, I do what I have to do to keep things running."
"Hmmm, very good. Now, I bid you a pleasant night." With that, the Prince walks away into the night, leaving the Sheriff to go her own way.
Eleanor, the Tremere, now finds herself standing in a quaint cottage. It's dimly lit by the orange light of a lamp mounted on the wall.
A bookcase is stuffed with old-school textbooks and archaic tomes. Nearby, the sound of potions brewing and all manners of quaint scents permeating the air.
"Oh, I do love my lab. So nice, cozy, and secluded from prying eyes. Y'know Masquerade breaches and all, so that's a nice bonus, heh heh," a feminine voice speaks out as a woman in her late-20s appears in the doorway, a slightly bemused look on her face.
"Lucile, my dear Childe!" Eleanor greets her, cheerfully. "I was hoping I would get to see you. There is something I need to speak with you about."
With that, Eleanor briefly recalls the entire meeting at the auditorium a few hours prior.
On receiving the new info (and the instructions that follow), Lucile is a bit taken aback, yet her tone remains calm and composed, "Oh, so you want me to uh...talk to this Maya girl," she asks nervously.
She sips something out of a cup and continues, "Could this finally be 'it', Eleanor? Perhaps it's about time I uh...y'know Embraced someone into our fold? I...think I'm ready for it."
Eleanor raises her hand, waves it in a dismissive fashion and sternly states, "You will do no such thing, Childe. I will be the one to Embrace her, if she is to be Embraced. I simply require your assistance in scrutinizing this mortal."
Lucile shrugs and sighs, "Scrutinizing? Sounds a bit harsh. She seems like a nice person from what you've told me so far. I look forward to getting to know her. Yeah, this kinda sounds fun."
Lucile looks to the side, eyes sparkling, "Fundraising, gala, drinks. Gee, I've...uh...never been to one of 'em before."
Eleanor places a hand on her Childe's shoulder, "I shall guide you. As for getting to know this Maya woman, I want you to...how shall I frame this...yes, seduce her."
Lucile's green eyes widen at this direct suggestion, "Whoa, whoa, whoa! Slow down there, Eleanor. I dunno about uh...that, yet. I mean, it's been a while since I...had any...action. But, if that's what you think is best, I'll try. For you and for my Clan. And for my...research experiments."
Lucile bites her lip, "I've never had a chance to poke open a freshly Embraced Kindred. Just uh, hypothetical questions here. I mean, the logistics are pretty sound. I have all these uh, notes and--"
"Focus, Lucile. Focus."
"Yes, uh...sorry."
Eleanor continues, "Together we shall leverage the powers of our Blood Sorcery on the day of the gala to make Maya more...susceptible to your advances."
Lucile, unsure of such a direct approach, slightly grimaces, "Eh...maybe you could, y'know, just lemme talk to her. I...I got a 'love' potion somewhere around here, but...heh heh, sorry, I'm going off again, aren't I?"
"Very well, Childe. But do not give away too much information about our kind. The situation is volatile as it is. This Maya woman could be quite...enchanting. You must discern for yourself whether she is indeed worthy of our Clan, of our House."
Eleanor looks directly into Lucile's eyes, "I...trust your judgment in this matter."
Lucile bows her head a bit and pensively says, "I won't let you down, my Sire."
Meanwhile...
In an opulent house, sit Arman and Ginny as they enjoy a nice drink of thick, red blood in the larger-than-life sitting room.
Ginny sits on the sofa, holding a wine glass in her left hand. Arman, dressed in silk pyjamas sits opposite her, enjoying his sanguine drink.
The smell of leather and various exotic spices fill the room as Arman takes a sip of his drink, then smiles at Ginny, who in turn grins back at him.
Ginny breaks the silence, "The new Prince seems to be doing well. Glad those fuckin' Lepers are outta my town. The Night Clan has standards, you know."
The Ventrue replies, "Our town, Ginny. Without our...no, my significant resources, this town would not have flourished as it has, for these last few years. We would have been crushed by the Brujah, the Banu Haqim, and all the other...lesser ilk and their even lesser sorts."
He smiles, "Now, with our help, this town and our kind has become stronger than ever before. Do not underestimate the power of my Clan, Ginny. For it is ever-growing."
Ginny says, "And don't you underestimate the power of the Shadows, rich boy."
"Oh, I would never dream of it. Now, where were we? Yes, ever since the Nosferatu's rather...hasty departure and their eventual replacement by the Lasombra along with the Final Death of the previous Prince, there has been a vacuum in the political and social scene. The Lepers, despite their unpleasantness, held a great deal of knowledge about the more seamy aspects of this town."
He sighs deeply, "Information that has since perished or been exiled to the farthest reaches of the Earth. Our position has become even more tenuous than before, with the SI and its underlings running rampant across the country."
"Well, they're fuckin' idiots. My people are much better at info gathering than those ugly shit stains. Anyways, this town is ripe for the picking. I was really lookin' forward to the new Prince, hell, we even had one of our own gunning for the position."
She groans, "Then, that wanderin' Ravnos came in and took the position! At first, I was excited about his arrival to Plaintry. But now..."
"But now...you have second thoughts," Arman declares, bluntly. "This particular Ravnos is an...exception to the rule. Not many of them are as strong as he is. Perhaps a few are out there, but I wouldn't count on it. It is a curious concept, the wandering Prince. Regardless, it is not good manners to question the decisions of The Ivory Tower."
Ginny scoffs, "Hmph, the Ivory Tower. So pure, so pristine. Oh, if only they knew how dirty their hands are."
Arman smirks and shakes his head, "Spare me your righteous indignation, Ginny."
"Righteous indignation, oh please, Arman, I know what I am and I fuckin' love it. I don't cloak it in bullshit charity balls, philanthropy, or nonsensical ribbon-cutting photo-ops. That shit ain't for me, rich boy. We Lasombra believe in survival of the fittest. And I'm a goddamn survivor."
Arman, barely taken aback by Ginny's sudden outburst, clears his throat and continues, "Well, if there is one thing I agree on, it is that only the deserving thrive. To survive is not merely enough. Look at that pitiful Thin-Blood. Working as some stockboy for Amazon. The very thought of it is sickening. That's no kind of life, or Unlife, rather for Kindred."
Ginny nods in agreement, "What a loser."
Arman sighs, "Unfortunately for us, our Prince has taken an interest in such lowly creatures. 'Making friends' he calls it. Tch. The Prince is like a dog chasing his tail, and if it goes wrong, it's our heads being paraded on a stick."
"So, what are you suggestin', Arman?" Ginny asks. "Suck up to the new Prince? Ooh, I'd love to do that. Be all, 'Yay, Princey! Can I lick your boots now, Princey? Can I slob all over your ring, boy? Can I just...can I suck your cock? Please,'" Ginny licks her lips seductively, which causes Arman to chuckle and take a sip of his blood.
Ginny continues, "I don't know, I mean, the Lasombra are grateful to the Ventrue for welcoming us to this town, but purging it of Thin-Bloods is a step too far. They might be losers, shelf stackers, and deadbeats, but they're still Kindred. Some of them are even good at the art of espionage."
She wags a finger, "Not as good as us, of course. What would you have us do, huh? Blood Hunt them to extinction?"
Arman takes a sip and places the glass down, "That is not quite the plan, Magister. Perhaps we could be rid of 2...or more birds with 1 stone, if you catch my meaning."
Ginny lets out a toothy smile, a little blood dripping out, "Oh, I get it, you wanna unleash the SI on them? Risky, even for a Blue-Blood like yourself."
Arman sternly replies, "I did not get to where I am today by shying away from risks. I'm sure you can relate. We can't let those Duskborn taint our town with their muck and filth. We can't let them Embrace those who show great potential. No, this has to be done subtly."
The Blue-Blood leans forward, "I can arrange the means, the people, and the resources. If you and your Clan does its respective part, I assure you, it will be worth your while. Our while."
Ginny rubs her chin and relaxes back into the sofa, "Hmmm, tempting. Real tempting. And the Prince? You think softie Lucas is gonna stand by and let this go down? If he's anything like the old Prince, he's probably gonna say no, but those Ravnos are some tough sons of bitches. Always on the move. Never in the same place for too long."
Arman raises an eyebrow and shakes his head, "The Sheriff appears to be much more reasonable, Ginny. She is strictly loyal to the Traditions. Perhaps, she can be swayed. It is possible that she can be convinced it's in everyone's best interest to see a...more capable Prince lead this town."
Ginny frowns, "Sheriff Eunice? Yeah, maybe, the woman's a stone-cold bitch. You saw how she roughed up that homeless guy a month back? I'd even wager she'd kill her own kid for the right price. Heh. Small town cops, gotta love 'em!"
Arman smirks, "We just have to figure out her 'right price'. Everyone has one. It's what being a Ventrue is all about, figuring out the 'right price' and exploiting it to one's advantage."
Ginny groans and says, "Ugh, I'm starving. This bagged and watered-down crap ain't doing it for me, Arman. Gimme the real stuff, straight from the source? I'd usually drop by Maya's or Annette's for a quick sip, but now Prince charming and that old timer say they're off limits until Maya's been vetted by the Tremere."
Ginny scowls, "God, how I'd love to throw a wrench in that plan too."
Arman raises his hand, snaps his finger and beckons a big man in his early-30s, wearing a tight t-shirt and jeans, to come over. "Rolf, why don't you bring one of the girls in here."
"Yes," Rolf, Arman's Ghoul and bodyguard, replies in a gruff, yet respectful tone.
Arman turns his attention back to Ginny and says, "I have a plan in mind. I can think of only a few possibilities that could result in our desired outcome. All the pieces are in place, all we need is a catalyst. A moment's weakness, a misstep, and then we strike. The Thin-Bloods in this town will undoubtedly be a part of this...puzzle."
A wide smile forms across his face, "But, for now, a...more promising refreshment, yes?"
Ginny chuckles, "Sounds like a plan."
Rolf returns, his big hand tightly holding the arm of a young, blonde girl in her early-20s. The girl wears a plain black shirt and jeans, and has a thin layer of makeup on. She appears dazed, her eyes show that she isn't fully there.
"Who's this?" Ginny asks, cautiously.
"Her name is irrelevant. She's one of my many...acquisitions," Arman answers, coyly.
"Ah, I get it," Ginny says, as she bares her fangs.
"Dig in."
With that, the girl sits besides Ginny, still having that far-away look in her eyes.
Arman, meanwhile, watches.
"She's quite docile," Ginny says, her face in close proximity to the girl. She notices what look like needle (or fang?) marks on the girl's wrist.
Ginny points to it and asks, "Anything I gotta be worried about?"
"No. No, not at all," Arman says in an evasive, yet polite manner.
Ginny, not keen to push her host (and co-conspirator) any further, pushes the girl's head to the side, exposing her neck. The girl, mindlessly, follows through and is bitten; the vampire's sharp fangs digging into the her flesh.
Ginny grunts and slightly moans as she feeds, enjoying the taste of the girl's blood (and whatever else might still be lurking in it).
Arman narrows his eyes as he watches the girl's veins begin to glow and her face, turn paler.
Ginny stops and gently pulls out her fangs. She smiles, "DAMN, what is in this stuff?"
Arman shifts in his seat, "Hmmm, well, that's a trade secret, Abyss Mystic. A 'house-recipe' of sorts."
"Hmph," Ginny says, wiping the remnants of the girl's blood from her lips with her tongue.
Arman beckons the girl to come towards him. He takes her by the hand, leads her to sit on his lap, and holds her tightly.
He clears his throat and reveals his fangs, the veins underneath his eyes glowing. He makes her look away, and slowly begins to drain her. The girl's eyes become wide, and her body becomes more and more limp.
Ginny, still unsatisfied, grabs a hold of the girl's wrist, bites deep into it, and greedily sucks the girl's blood out.
"A little more," Arman says, with a hint of urgency in his voice. This goes on for what feels like hours, but is shortly reduced to mere seconds. It's not long before the girl gasps until she finally goes completely slack.
While still on Arman's lap, he lets go of her hand, the skin on the girl's wrist turning pale as he does so.
"That ought to do it," Arman whispers.
He then lets the body fall to the floor, "Don't look so worried, my dear Ginny, there's plenty more where that came from."
Rolf, without having to be asked, drags the girl's body and places it on his broad shoulders.
"It's been a while since I've indulged in such...spontaneous pleasures," Arman says, smirking. "Reminds me of my...younger days. Just after my Embrace."
"Just make sure your youthful spontaneity doesn't land us out in the sun, playboy. I'd hate to see that pretty face turn to ashes."
"Hmmm, yes. Now, what were we discussing before we got...carried away?" Arman asks, brushing a piece of lint off his silk pyjamas.
"Oh, right," Ginny says, looking a tad guilty. "I dunno. I'm still savoring that chick's after taste. But, ummm, yeah, something about those Thin-Bloods?"
Arman nods and continues, "Indeed. Their de-facto 'representative' Dylan seems like a pushover, angered at even the slightest provocation. Amazon's underlings were never all that bright. Pfft."
"Yeah, well, the rest of the Duskborn are no geniuses either, so what's your point? What makes you think this Embrace is such a big deal, anyway? Maybe it's just a ploy by the Tremere to try and get some sorta political pull in this town?"
Arman retorts, "The Tremere aren't also known as 'Usurpers' for no reason. I should know. I've 'been' with one for a while now. This hypothetical Embrace could be a prelude to a greater move into this town. They're more likely to Embrace a low-level mortal than an already established one. Mortals are easily replaceable, after all."
He feels the fresh blood making its way down his throat, "However, if an Embrace were to occur, say in the next few nights, well, that would put a spanner in the works. Annette, from what I've been told, expresses a great desire to climb the social ladder, as it were. The Sheriff, moreover, seems more pliable, being a Malkavian and all."
Ginny narrows one eye and leans in, "What do you mean by 'been with one'. You mean like fu-"
Arman dismissively waves his hand, "God no. Get your mind out of the gutter, Ginny. What kind of a gentleman do you think I am? My relationship with that Tremere was purely...professional. And even if I was, it would not be of any concern to you."
Ginny replies, "Fair point. So, you're saying this Annette gal's got ambitions? The Night Clan loves ambitious types."
"Indeed. I am quite curious to see if she can live up to it. Maybe we could even encourage it, subtly of course. Perhaps we could even use HER for our own ends."
"Apart from Annette, any other likely candidates for the Embrace at the gala?"
Arman ponders for a moment, then replies, "Hmmm, well, there's the mayoral candidate. Her parents are embroiled in quite a legal brouhaha. You'll hear more about it at the gala, I don't wish to bore you with the details. But it represents another opportunity for our respective Clans to exploit."
He asks, "Your Clan does have connections to the legal profession, yes?"
"You betcha ass they do," Ginny says, gleefully.
"Excellent. Excellent! We shall discuss more at the fundraiser, then?"
Ginny gets up, stretches, and yawns, "Yeah, yeah. Sounds good, Arman. Real good. See you there. Say, don't forget that Maya woman. I got a feeling that she's gonna be a part of all this, somehow."
Arman doesn't seem fazed, "One lifestyle writer for a rag that no one reads is hardly a threat. Kindred have faced much worse than that. In any case, I think our business here is concluded, yes? Goodnight, Ginny."
"Don't get ahead of yourself, playboy. 'Night. Rolf, catch you later."
Rolf dryly replies, "Yes."
With that, Ginny is out the door, and Rolf closes it behind her.
"Well, that went swimmingly," Arman thinks to himself.
He gets up and says, "The coming days...and nights are going to be quite intriguing. I do hope you will not let me down, Rolf. Also, have you disposed of that girl's body?"
Rolf nods.
"Excellent."
With that, Arman walks off to his study, and Rolf follows suit.
Chapter 3: Gala
As the sun sinks in the horizon, a sense of unease and anxiety rises up from the depths of Maya's stomach, churning her insides like a vile cocktail of indigestion and anxiety.
Or it could just be undercooked pasta.
Tonight is the night, the big fundraiser gala for the mayoral candidate, Bernice. It's being hosted by Plaintry's elite at the swankiest hotel in town (or the only one that still looks somewhat decent).
Maya, like Annette, spent a great deal of her morning picking out the right outfits, washing her hair, and generally readying herself and gussying up for tonight's occasion.
It was now time. Catering staff were still preparing the area. Men and women in suits were barking orders at the sound people and the decorators.
"Oh, shit, guess we're early, huh," exclaims Annette.
Maya replies, "Eh, should allow us to get a look behind-the-scenes. Maybe even meet you-know-who."
Annette turns to Maya, shakes her head, and sighs, "You really don't think I have a chance with the freakin' mayoral candidate, I mean, c'mon. She's gonna be surrounded by people all the time. You know, important people. All those cameras, lights, and flashes are gonna be everywhere, and we're gonna get stuck in the background like a couple of nobodies."
Maya, unfazed, replies, "It's fine, we have some time. Let's uh...look around a bit. Don't wanna get in the way, or anything."
Annette grabs hold of Maya's hand, "Oh, and Maya one more thing."
Maya already knows, "Don't worry, I won't go all 'tinfoil hat' in a room full of power-brokers and big-shots. I can behave."
"Good."
Maya rolls her eyes, "So, anything else, I'm getting a bit antsy just standing around here. Let's go, take a look behind the curtain. C'mon! We're so freakin' early. It's gonna be fun!"
Annette thinks for a second, and says, "Well...I'm a little thirsty, y'know?"
Maya groans, "Oh, come on. OK, fine, you go grab a drink and I'll take a look around."
Annette concedes, "Just...don't do anything you'll regret later."
With that, the 2 women go their separate ways, with Annette walking away in one direction while Maya wanders towards the stage area, and the myriad of busy people.
She briefly scans her surroundings for a familiar face (or non-familiar, for that matter) and doesn't spot anything (or anyone) out of the ordinary.
As the evening wears on and the time draws nearer, the catering staff becomes less of an issue, with the lights being adjusted for the evening and the sounds being checked and re-checked for the 5th time in as many minutes.
"Testing. Mic check. 2-3-4," a thumbs-up gesture from the sound crew in the back, indicating that all is well.
Maya decides to check out what the commotion near the VIP area is all about. She sees a middle-aged man in an aloha shirt, clearly drunk, arguing with an usher over his 'entry'.
She quickly hides behind one of the curtains and observes.
"Look, buddy...hic...I know my...hic...fuckin' rights...ain't no...hic...just wanna...talk to some of the...chicks in the back...hic..." He then vomits all over the usher.
That's when a big man, wearing a really tight suit comes in, manhandles the belligerent drunkard and starts to escort him out.
Maya shakes her head and decides to get out of there as she spots Annette returning with 2 flutes of champagne in her hands.
"Well, looks like it's showtime," Maya says, her attention drawn to the entrance of the big shot, the mayoral candidate, Bernice herself.
Annette's eyes widen a bit, "Whoa. Shit, look at her! She's gorgeous."
Gorgeous indeed.
Bernice stands with a slim build, black, shiny, shoulder-length hair and hazel eyes. She is wearing a stylish green dress, her lips a glossy shade of red, and her makeup looking absolutely perfect.
Maya nudges her friend and says, "See, what'd I say, huh? Looks like tonight might be your night. She could be the one, THE one you've been waiting for. Of course, you gotta let me make the introductions. Geez, hey...wait, who's that?"
Standing in a corner is Lucile. Her eyes immediately meet Maya's and she lets out a slight smile.
She looks strikingly beautiful.
Wearing her red dress, black stilettos, and a coat, along with light-blue eyeshadow. Her short, brown hair, slightly trimmed at the sides. Her lipstick is red as well, and her makeup seems expertly applied. Her green eyes pierce through Maya's soul.
She lets out yet another warm smile.
Annette nudges Maya, "Who is she, one of your friends?"
"No, but...but...I," Maya replies, stammering and at a clear loss for words, looking quite flushed and confused at the same time.
Annette chuckles to herself, "And here I thought tonight was gonna be my night. Go on, say hi."
"B...But...but what about you...and--" Maya stammers, clearly having a hard time getting a handle on things.
Annette emphatically replies, "It's cool, it's cool. I got the whole night. Besides, I'm perfectly capable of talking to people. Go on, have fun."
She winks at Maya, "Tonight could be the night. Heh."
It takes some time (and a drink or 2) for Maya to muster up the courage to approach this strange, yet enchanting woman.
It is during this time, while Bernice is mingling with the various VIP's and celebrities, that she is joined by Prince Lucas, and then Arman, both of whom seem to be in a great mood, with Prince Lucas hastily downing another drink of champagne and Arman keeping his eye on the proceedings.
Maya takes a deep breath, gets herself together, and walks up to Lucile, "Uh...hi. I'm Maya."
"Pleased to make your acquaintance. I'm Lucile," Lucile replies with a coy smile, extending a hand to Maya, which the other woman takes.
Maya begins by asking, "So, how are you finding this gala? Is it uh...how are you liking it here so far?"
Lucile takes a sip of her champagne and shrugs, "It is a bit...intimidating. But it's also exciting at the same time. I've...never been to these types of events before."
"So, um...you know anyone from around here or are you visiting from outta town or something?"
"Oh, well--" Lucile stammers, unsure of how to respond, but then collects herself and continues, "Yes, I live a few minutes outside town. I...have a...lab of sorts."
"Oh, nice! So what do you do, like as a job?" Maya asks.
Lucile smiles, "Well, I'm a...specialist in...molecular biochemistry. But it's really complicated. I mean, my work. And...uh--"
Which is technically true, as Lucile did go to Harvard in the 90s.
It's also a lot less awkward than saying, "Blood Thaumaturgist".
Maya chuckles, "You don't have to be modest around me, y'know. I'm a lowly writer at a tiny magazine called Nimbus. You...ever heard of it?"
Lucile politely says, "Can't say I'm much of a magazine person. I like digital stuff better, y'know. What sort of things do you write?"
Maya sips a bit of champagne out of her flute and replies, "Eh, you know, stuff. Reviews. Random 'news' articles. Local features. Lifestyle tips, all that sorta stuff."
"It...has its moments, I guess? Besides, I think I read one of your pieces in a dentist's office one time. Something about...'15 things I wish I Knew Before Dyeing My Hair'"
Maya, a bit embarrassed, shakes her head, "Ugh, that one didn't really make it far. But yeah, don't dye your hair unless you know what you're doing, heh."
Lucile strokes Maya's red hair and asks, "So, is this all dyed or..."
"Oh, no, no, it's...all natural. Anyways, this town's not like what you read about in those city-slicker magazines."
"Oh, what do you mean?"
"I mean we aren't just this picture perfect, idyllic town where nothing ever goes wrong, where bake sales and neighborhood cookouts happen all the time, and everyone gets along and no one ever argues or has conflicts, y'know? It's not that perfect."
Maya sighs deeply, "We, like anybody else, have issues here."
Lucile, keenly taking in every word Maya is saying, replies, "I see. So, uh...tell me more about these 'issues' of yours? Or, is that why you're here? To talk to the mayoral candidate about these 'issues'?"
"I mean, this is just my opinion, but I think there's something really up in this town."
With that, Maya takes Lucile to a more secluded corner of the gala and continues, "Tell me, have you ever woken up, feeling dizzy, nauseous, and tired all at once? Has furniture ever been moved around without your prior knowledge or consent?"
Lucile replies, "Whoa, well...um, no."
"And you just wanna fall back to bed, y'know? That's been happening a lot to me, lately. There's something...up in this town and I think it has something to do with--"
Lucile raises an eyebrow, "Yes?"
Maya can't help but look directly into Lucile's green eyes, "You know what, forget about it. My god, you are so...beautiful."
"Why thank you, Maya," Lucile says, chuckling nervously.
The 2 continue their conversation, unaware of what else is going on, or rather, the plots that have been set in motion.
In another part of the hotel, there is a sense of urgency. The mayoral candidate taps the mic a few times to get everyone's attention.
Immediately, the talking stops and all eyes are on Bernice as she stands on the stage and gives a speech about the town, why she deserves to become the next Mayor, and the current legal troubles her parents are undergoing.
"Greetings everyone. Thank you for making the time to come here. And thank you, most importantly, for opening your checkbooks for me. And, of course, for the future of Plaintry!"
With that, laughter erupts in the room as the audience enjoys Bernice's joke (at their expense, of course).
Bernice then goes on about the town, what it means to her, and such. All very well-rehearsed, in front of a mirror most likely.
"Now, as you all might be painfully aware, not everything has been smooth-sailing. My dear maw-maw and pops, as I love to call them, are subject to the guile and trickery of foreign agents hostile to American interests. Hard-working Americans who served their country have had their good names dragged through the muck for DARING to stand up for Democracy!"
She raises a stern finger, "It is simply unforgivable what these bloggers and so-called journalists are trying to do to them!"
Bernice is pretty vague on what dear ol' maw-maw and pops are being accused of.
She doesn't really go into the details, preferring to stick with nebulous statements about "paid puppets", "troll farms", and "discredited journalists" in a bid to rile the crowd up and get the much needed cash flowing in to her campaign for the Democrat primary.
Bernice takes a drink of water and continues, "That's why I am going to do everything I can to stop them! It is simply unacceptable. I'd like to remind these people that we have libel and slander laws in this great country! I can't just let this stand. I won't. NOT in America and NOT in my town!"
Prince Lucas and Arman exchange glances and nod, clearly pleased with what they've seen (and heard) thus far. Arman says something inaudible as the crowd erupts in applause.
"A vote for Bernice is a vote for a brighter Plaintry!" Bernice finishes her speech as the applause intensifies, with various people, slick men in suits in particular, patting each other on the shoulder.
Undoubtedly Bernice's legal team.
Annette, slightly aroused by that speech and the sound of Bernice's voice, decides now is the time. She squeezes her way through the crowd of men and women in lavish suits and walks towards the stage where Bernice is drinking a glass of wine and speaking with various VIPs.
Bernice sees Annette approaching and waves her hand over, "Well, hello there. And you are?"
Annette, suddenly overcome with anxiety, replies, "Annette. My name is Annette. I...work for Nimbus magazine."
Bernice smiles and says, "Ah, I have a subscription that needs renewing. I think I've read something of yours quite recently. Weren't you the one who covered the breakup between Tyler and Sally? I couldn't imagine a couple more unfit for each other."
She chuckles and continues, "What brings you here, if you don't mind me asking?"
Annette clears her throat and says, "I really loved your speech. Foreign interference is a really...big threat to our...uh, well...democracy, I guess, in America. But, yeah, I came here with my co-worker and friend, Maya. I was wondering if I could talk to you a bit, you know, get to know you a bit more."
Bernice immediately gets the hint, "Ah." She grabs a nearby napkin, a pen from someone and jots down her number.
She subtly mouths, "Call me," and winks before heading off to mingle with the other, more important guests.
Maya and Lucile, meanwhile, have taken a much greater liking to one another, having bonded over their mutual love of various shooter games.
Maya just couldn't take her eyes off of Lucile's beautiful, piercing, green eyes.
"So yeah, I'd definitely recommend it. It's like the original in every way, and better. It even has the same ending! But it's really hard and long. And I...well, I can't help myself, I have a VERY short attention span," Maya laughs, looking sheepish.
Lucile smiles and says, "Heh, tell me about it. Y'know, I used to be a League of Legends addict back in the day. It got so bad that my Si...I mean, friend had to take away my computer."
Maya giggles and asks, "Wow, so you don't play anymore?"
"Not really, I play shit that respects my time. Not as much time due to work, but I make do with what I have," Lucile says with a sly smile, but quickly changes the topic, "So, you...well, I'm kinda bored. Let's uh--"
Maya immediately leans in and whispers into Lucile's ear, "Let's go back to my place."
"Oh. Wow, yeah, sure."
The 2 of them quickly slip out the side doors, unseen by any of the other guests or staff.
Maya fumbles through her handbag, desperately looking for her keys. She finds them, eventually. Looking a bit flushed, she holds Lucile's hand as they walk back home.
Meanwhile, Arman is taking the opportunity to have a heart to heart with Prince Lucas. The Ventrue is clearly pleased with the night's turn of events, particularly the show that the mayoral candidate put on.
He says to himself, "This Bernice woman appears driven."
Arman ponders this a little further, but then someone steps into the party hall- it's Ginny, wearing a black sequin dress with a low-cut back. She is also wearing black, 4 inch heels. Her short, blonde hair is styled in a bob-cut.
She carries with herself an aura of smug self-assurance as she makes her way towards where Arman and Prince Lucas are.
Arman, cordially greets Ginny, "Ah, Ginny. Great to see you. Have you had something to...'eat' and 'drink' down in the VIP lounge. I hear the 'meat' is quite...tender this time of night."
Prince Lucas shakes his head and smirks, "Hmmmm."
Ginny, getting exactly what Arman is hinting at says, "Yummy. Peachy. Rolf, still alive, I see."
The Ghoul simply nods.
Arman says to Ginny, "I know that look, Abyss Mystic. You liked the mayoral candidate's speech, did you not?"
Ginny chuckles and shrugs, "Eh, but she's got stones."
Prince Lucas turns to Arman, "It is not of Kindred to interfere too much in the matters of mortal politics. Even more so, considering her parents' proximity to the intelligence apparatus that we know is full of SI operatives and the like."
Prince Lucas wiggles in his seat, "If I recall correctly, you yourself told me of a credible MIB threat operating in Plaintry. Care to elaborate, my friend?"
Without skipping a beat, Arman states, "Indeed. That's why this is an opportune time. We need to get Bernice elected and her parents pardoned. We can use her against the SI. As for her parents' case, well, Ginny here has connections to the legal world. Very powerful connections, my liege."
Ginny interjects, "Yep. I got people who can guarantee a win for dear old maw-maw and pops. This might just get us all the respect and security we need, right here, right now. Wouldn't that be somethin'?"
The Prince, clearly disturbed, states, "I am well aware of your connections, Arman. And Ginny. But let us not rush into this. Our kind are already walking a tightrope as it is. Until then, you need to tell me more about this MIB operation, Arman. I feel that you have not been very forthcoming with me."
The Prince coughs and continues, "As your Prince, I expect better from you. Now, my Clan has encountered the MIB on our travels throughout the American Midwest. As such, I am no stranger to their...methods."
Arman subtly bows his head and says, "Apologies, Prince Lucas. But I needed to be entirely sure before bringing you more info about the Military Intelligence Brigade operation in this town. I would hate to bring dishonor upon you due to faulty information."
Arman certainly knows how to butter someone up to the point where Ginny shifts in her seat and avoids grinning.
Arman goes on, "The name of the operation is 'Memphis Green'. I only found this out quite recently. As for their plans, it involves long-term digital manipulation and surveillance. That, coupled with their deep-cover work in local law enforcement make them quite a formidable foe that cannot be dismissed as mere trigger-happy rednecks."
Arman drums his fingers on the table, "I am, of course, still gathering more information, but it is proving quite harder than usual."
Prince Lucas, somewhat satisfied with this reply, smirks and asks, "And Dylan's findings would corroborate yours, I hope?"
Arman's scowl is hardly concealed at the mention of the Thin-Blood's name, but he regains his composure and says, "Perhaps. Dylan is...mediocre at such matters. Prince Lucas, may I speak frankly? The Thin-Blood still feels rather...sentimental about the departure of your predecessor and the necessary exiling of the Nosferatu and Toreador."
Arman leans closer, "Putting such a volatile creature in a position of such importance, however minor, is a risky strategy. One that could jeopardize the Masquerade."
Prince Lucas raises his eyebrows and leans back on his seat, "That is...quite an interesting assertion, Arman."
"Forgive me if I spoke out of line, my Prince. I only seek what is best for the Kindred."
The Prince gives Arman a warm smile and turns his attention to Ginny, "My dear Ginny, what do you feel about all of this? Is it worth pursuing? The cases in the mortal courts, the Military Intelligence Brigade operation, and the mayoral campaign?"
Ginny, lost in thought for a moment, replies, "Hmm? Well, we gotta get something out of it. And not just IOUs and hugs. Still, we could use a few people on the inside."
The Prince nods and inquires, "And what 'something' did you have in mind, Magister?"
"Real, tangible power and influence for the next century. The Second Inquisition is fragmented, but they're slowly regrouping and rebuilding. We need to hit 'em hard and hit 'em fast before it becomes too much of an issue. The entire Lasombra Clan down south is either ash or in hiding."
Her expression gets serious, "We can't afford to fuck around and play patty cakes. We need a comprehensive strategy and we NEED you to step up, Prince Lucas."
The Prince scratches his cheek and says, "I appreciate your candor, Ginny."
He leans closer to her, "Do you know anything of this operation 'Memphis Green'?"
"Nope, your highness. First time hearing of it."
The Prince goes into a contemplative state for a few minutes, leaving the table in an awkward silence.
After what feels like an eternity, he speaks, "Geoffrey did not leave me with an easy puzzle. But when in doubt, we must follow the Traditions. And most sacred of all is the Masquerade. It is what binds Kindred together, regardless of Clan or Bloodline. It is what ensures our survival. This 'Memphis Green' operation is not something I wish to see come to fruition."
The Prince gulps, "As for the legal troubles of Bernice's parents, it seems like Clan Lasombra's involvement could be the difference between success and failure. If they were to be absolved, they would owe us and their connections to the military-intelligence community is something that we could possibly use in the event of a worst-case scenario."
Ginny interjects, "Not 'if', but 'when'."
Arman nods, "Indeed."
Prince Lucas continues, "However, we need to tread carefully regarding the mayoral candidate herself. Given the current political climate and the circumstances surrounding her campaign, it would be wise to not...interfere too much unless absolutely necessary. I have no hopes in the ever-volatile world of mortal politics."
The Prince, with his right hand on his chin and his left arm draped over the back of his chair, goes on, "I am also concerned about the position of the Thin-Bloods in this town. We must make them feel more...welcome here. I do not wish to oversee another exiling and more Blood Hunts. Too many Kindred have already perished, let us not add to that."
Arman and Ginny give each other a look for a second- the look of 2 co-conspirators who need to tread carefully lest they are discovered.
Arman continues, "Agreed. My liege, have you considered appointing a Seneschal?"
Ginny stays silent and avoids making eye contact with the Prince.
He ponders this for a bit and says, "Hmmmm. No. A Seneschal is more fitting for a Prince of a larger Domain. Mine is...smaller."
Arman reverently says, "As you wish, my liege," with all the reverence of a poseur, of course.
Ginny chimes in, "Hear hear."
Just then, the Prince twitches in his seat. He loosens his tie and unbuttons his collar. "Excuse me. I feel it is getting...hotter in here. I must leave. There is much more to discuss, but we shall do so at the auditorium tomorrow night."
He gets up from his seat, quickly turns to Ginny and Arman, "Enjoy yourselves, my friends. I bid you both a good night."
With that, he hastily walks away and disappears from the party hall.
The Prince has taken his leave, and Arman turns his attention to Ginny, who's snickering to herself.
She relaxes a bit in her seat, "Hmph, 'friends'. Can you believe this guy?"
Arman, himself grinning, replies, "Do you think he suspects us, Abyss Mystic? Is he merely posing so as to not look suspicious? It wouldn't be the first time we've been double-crossed in our lifetimes. Both as mortals and even more so as Kindred."
"Yeah, well, the Thin-Bloods are a bunch of bitches. But they ain't stupid. If we wanna get shit done, we gotta work together. With Prince Lucas, with that loser Dylan, and with Eleanor. Temporarily of course."
Arman nods, "Yes. While shoring up our own influence and power, of course. Perhaps we could even turn them against each other. I have an...idea I would like to share with you. Regarding the Kindred couriers. As you are well aware, due to the SI's monitoring of all electronic communications, the Ivory Tower has started using Kindred couriers to send packages and messages of varying importance across state lines."
He grins as he goes on, "Dead drops, self-destructing messages- the usual spy novel clichés. Our Nosferatu assets were providing some...insight. You have not seen what they were capable of first-hand, Ginny. I almost miss them. Almost."
Ginny, a bit annoyed, brushes her hair to the side and replies, "Look, I'm all about the long game, Arman. But right now, I wanna see some progress. Something tangible, I mean. And is this Operation 'Memphis Green' even a real thing or another misdirection of yours?"
Arman chuckles, "Your lack of patience, Ginny, never fails to amuse me. As for Memphis Green, oh, I assure you, the threat is real. It is an initiative designed to subtly turn even more mortals against our kind. Make them distrustful even of each other. If they are distrustful to such an extent, they can be quite...volatile and unpredictable. And that I do not like."
He leans forward, "Our Clan is a lot of things, but unpredictable and volatile, it is not."
He goes into more detail, "As for the 'elections' here, 'rigging' it, excuse the crude expression, shouldn't be too hard. My Clan has a reputation for that sort of thing, after all."
Ginny looks over her shoulder, showing signs of paranoia, "God, I feel so exposed discussing all this in such an open, lit up place. There's a reason we do what we do in the Shadows, away from prying eyes. You might be used to boardrooms and conference calls, but we operate differently."
Arman is unfazed and tells Ginny to relax as the people in the gala are really no different, undoubtedly cooking up plots of their own, "My dear, you might find it hard to believe, but we have quite a lot in common with the guests in this here gala. They too plot and plot, each one feigning a smile, while preparing a knife to stab the other in the back."
Ginny raises her eyebrow at this statement, "And you better not have any plans to stab me, cause I could make you regret it, rich boy."
Arman waves his hand dismissively, "I would never dream of it. I am well aware of how...Ruthless you Abyss Mystics can be."
He goes on, "So, what do you think of that Annette woman? Did you get a chance to speak with her yet?"
"No, but I've been reading that magazine she writes for- Nimbus. She's got a certain edge to her. She has this unique...fascination with the upper crust of this town. Almost like she's...infatuated with it. Like she wants a seat at the banquet."
"Ah, I see. That can be most advantageous for us, Ginny. Your Clan could use someone like her, no?"
Arman, clearly thinking ahead, goes on to suggest that Ginny Embrace Annette into the Lasombra Clan, "Perhaps you could even...Embrace her?"
Ginny is caught off-guard by such a bold idea.
It takes her a while to reply, "Whoa, slow down there, cowboy. We Lasombra have a certain...criteria for potential Embraces into the Clan. She's not quite...cut from that cloth. Yet."
Arman shakes his head, "Yet?"
Ginny sighs, "Ugh, sort of like a hazing ritual. I don't like talking about Clan-related business with you or out in the open like this, no offense."
She turns around to make sure no one is watching or listening in on them.
She goes on, "Besides, you gotta take this one step at a time, Arman. You also haven't thought about how we're gonna convince the Malkavian Sheriff, Eunice, to see things our way. I get it, she's crazy cause of her Clan. I've met her a few times, y'know. She's...cold as the fuckin' Arctic circle, but not stupid."
Arman looks down and says, "Perhaps we could offer the Clan of the Moon a greater position in this town? They tend to draw quite a bit of attention to themselves in bigger cities due to their Clan Curse. A sleepy, almost idyllic town would be perfect for a band of such...deprived Kindred."
"I like that. But there's still the Thin-Bloods. They see this town as some sorta halfway house, Arman. And then there's the matter of Dylan himself. How do you propose we handle that? Cause I've met enough Thin-Bloods to know they're a pain in the ass on the best of nights and downright useless on the worst."
"Worry not, in a matter of time, our solution to the Thin-Blood problem will be arriving in town. I do not wish to disclose anymore at the moment, Ginny. I'm sure you understand the need for discretion. My Clan has spent too much time and money on this 'deal'. To see it all undone would be a travesty."
Arman slowly claps his hands, "For now, let us perhaps mingle, or 'network' with some of the more important people here?"
Ginny smirks, "Let's."
Arman smiles to himself. As they prepare to get up from their seats, a song comes on. Ginny stops in her tracks and stares at Arman.
Ginny is surprised as Arman stretches out his hand and offers it to Ginny, "May I have this dance?"
She laughs at Arman, "Seriously?"
He simply smiles.
She continues, "Sure. Why not. Lead the way, Casanova."
With that, Arman and Ginny spend the rest of the night dancing and making small-talk with various guests, mostly local power-brokers, and members of the police unions and other VIPs in Plaintry.
The party eventually dies down and it is well past midnight as the various guests and VIP's begin to depart from the gala.
Meanwhile, Maya has just unlocked the door of her apartment and invites Lucile in, "Come on in, make yourself at home."
Maya, flustered and aroused, immediately takes Lucile by the hand and leads her to the sofa, where they kiss passionately. Maya runs her fingers through Lucile's short, brown hair and pulls her closer.
Lucile gently caresses Maya's cheeks and kisses her back, but then Maya, even more aroused, takes things further. She slowly unzips the back of Lucile's dress and takes it off, revealing Lucile's blue bra.
Maya takes a deep breath and admires Lucile's pale skin, "Damn. You're so...cold...and so hot at the same time."
Maya is completely enraptured by the Tremere's beauty, but Lucile is equally infatuated with Maya's sexiness.
Lucile gently strokes Maya's red hair and says, "Oh my god, you're so...beautiful, Maya."
Maya can't help but kiss Lucile once more and run her hands down Lucile's back, "Your skin is so soft and smooth."
Maya kisses Lucile's neck and undoes her bra strap. Now Lucile's blue bra is on the floor and the 2 continue kissing, their tongues intertwining and their moans filling the air.
Maya then places her mouth on Lucile's breasts and gently sucks on them.
Maya stops and looks into Lucile's eyes, "I love 'em."
Lucile lets out a soft moan and replies, "Oh, yes. Please, keep doing that, Maya...oooooh. Yeah, suck them...mmm...harder."
Maya, eager to please her new lover, keeps sucking on and licking Lucile's breasts, causing her to moan even more. Maya takes off her blouse, revealing her black, lacy bra.
Lucile's green eyes widen with delight as she stares at Maya's ample bosom.
"Oh my god, Maya. They're so...beautiful and...soft."
Maya, clearly shocked at that (well-deserved) compliment states, "You...you like 'em? Thank you."
Lucile seductively reassures Maya, "I love 'em...and everything else about you."
Lucile can't stop herself from touching Maya's breasts and gently squeezing them. Lucile leans down and licks the side of Maya's right breast, causing Maya to moan.
Lucile gently sucks on Maya's nipple, causing her to moan louder.
"Oh, yes, Lucile. Suck them, oh yes, ooooh. Mmm, yeah, oh my god...oh yeah. Oh, that's so good. Oh, god. You're amazing."
Maya gently pushes Lucile back and stands up. Lucile bites her lips and smiles, "Let's take this to bed."
"Hell yes."
Maya leads Lucile to the bedroom, where they undress and climb into bed, passionately making out.
Maya stops for a moment, and looks deeply into Lucile's green eyes, "You're so beautiful, Lucile. Where have you been all my life?"
Lucile smiles and tells Maya, "And you're so sexy, Maya."
Maya giggles, "Mmm, thank you."
Maya and Lucile resume their passionate kissing. Maya begins to kiss and lick Lucile's neck and shoulder, causing her to moan.
Lucile can't help but grab Maya's ass and pull her closer, her hands wandering across Maya's body.
Maya gently licks Lucile's ear and whispers, "Mmm, I'm so wet."
Lucile understands what she has to do. She helps Maya get in position, with her knees on either side of Lucile's face. Maya looks down at Lucile and gently lowers herself onto Lucile's face.
Maya closes her eyes and starts rubbing her pussy against Lucile's open mouth, moaning loudly. Maya grabs Lucile's head and guides it closer to her clit.
Lucile grabs Maya's hips and holds her steady, her tongue flicking at Maya's clit.
"Ooooooh, yes. Mmmmm, yes, mmm. Suck my clit, yeah, oh, yeah. Mmm, suck it, oh, god, yes, mmm! Yes, oh my god."
Maya can't help but throw her head back and moan louder, her body writhing with pleasure.
Lucile keeps licking and sucking at Maya's clit, inching her closer to orgasm.
"Oh my god, Lucile, oh my god. Keep doing it!" Maya grabs a hold of Lucile's head and grinds her pussy against Lucile's face, moaning louder with each movement.
After a few minutes of intense oral sex, Maya can't take anymore. She lets out a loud, long moan as she comes hard, her juices squirting out all over Lucile's face.
Maya falls back on the bed, exhausted and satisfied. Her breathing is labored and her chest rises and falls with every breath she takes.
Lucile gently gets out of bed and sits next to Maya. She runs her fingers through Maya's red hair and says, "Mmm, you were amazing. I haven't felt that way in a long time."
Maya smiles and says, "You were amazing too."
Lucile asks, "Do you wanna go again?"
Maya eagerly nods, "Yes. Yes, please." Her eyes glinting with anticipation.
Lucile laughs and says, "OK, sweetie."
With that, Maya gets down on her knees while Lucile is at the edge of the bed. Maya spreads Lucile's legs apart and dives her head into Lucile's crotch, licking her clit and gently sucking on it.
Lucile lets out a loud moan and grabs a hold of Maya's head, guiding her tongue deeper into her pussy.
Maya's tongue darts in and out of Lucile's pussy, lapping up her juices and inching her closer to orgasm.
Lucile can't help but moan louder with each stroke of Maya's tongue. "Oh, that's it, yeah...oooooh, god! Yes."
Lucile starts grinding her pussy against Maya's face, moaning louder. After a few minutes, Lucile can't hold back any longer. She lets out a loud moan as she comes hard, her undead body convulsing with pleasure.
Maya doesn't stop licking and sucking at Lucile's clit, causing her to orgasm yet again. When Lucile can't take anymore, she grabs a hold of Maya's head and leans in for a passionate kiss, their tongues intertwining.
After a few minutes of kissing, Lucile has a sudden urge to feed. Her Hunger is growing. She pulls back from Maya, leans into her neck, and whispers in her ear, "Mmm, oooooh yes--" Her fangs involuntary protrude.
She, however, musters up the strength to resist the Beast. Her fangs retract and she just kisses Maya's neck, "Y...You're so amazing, Maya."
Maya giggles, "Mmmm, you're amazing, too. Thank you. That was...wow. I can't believe we're here."
One last passionate kiss and then Maya pulls away and says, "Oh my god, Lucile. That was so...so AMAZING!"
Lucile looks into Maya's longing eyes, smiles and whispers, "Mmm, yes it certainly was."
With that, the 2 cuddle on the bed for a while.
Maya asks Lucile, "Why don't you stay the night? I can call in 'sick' tomorrow."
Lucile politely declines (for obvious reasons), "I got a long week ahead. Also, I don't know if I told you this, but I'm an insomniac. I...uh sleep during the day."
At that point, the thought of taking Maya back to the cottage and Embracing her enters Lucile's mind. But she quickly dismisses it as being far too dangerous.
She could never forgive herself if something bad were to happen to this amazing woman she just met and made love with.
The penalty for an unauthorized Embrace is usually Final Death (for both Embracer and Embraced), barring a few...exceptional circumstances.
Nevertheless, Maya, still wrapped in Lucile's arms, understands and says, "Ah, a night owl, huh? Just a few more minutes. I don't want this to end, Lucile. I don't want this to end. You're so...different."
"In a good way, I hope?" Lucile asks.
Maya nods and says, "Yeah. A very good...and sexy way."
They both laugh.
Maya sighs and says out of concern, "You're so cold, though."
Lucile laughs and says, "Yeah, I know, sweetie. It's a...genetic thing, I guess."
Maya chimes in, "It's not like I have anyone else to share my warmth with anyway. You're amazing, Lucile."
The 2 of them hold each other close. Maya feels her eyelids grow heavy. She can feel the warmth and comfort of Lucile's embrace, but the exhaustion of the previous day and night takes a hold of her.
Lucile gets up from bed, kisses her sleepy lover on the forehead, and whispers sweet nothings into her ear, "I'll let myself out. Goodnight, sweetie."
With that, she makes her way back to the front door. Before leaving, she looks back at Maya, who has already drifted off to sleep.
She jots down her phone number on a piece of paper and leaves it on Maya's bedside table. She smiles to herself and quietly exits the apartment.
Annette, on the other hand, is pacing in her apartment. She is debating whether or not to call Bernice, whom she exchanged numbers with.
It's unlikely that the mayoral candidate would answer this late at night, but Annette says, "Fuck it!" and calls her.
After a few rings, Bernice picks up, "Hello?"
Annette, a bit nervous (and tired), replies, "Bernice? Sorry it's so late, uh...it's me Annette. We met earlier tonight. I work for Nimbus. Listen, I know this is awkward, but I was wondering if I could schedule an...interview with you? Tomorrow afternoon maybe? Or another day?"
Bernice is a little surprised, but flattered.
She agrees to the interview, "Of course, I'm looking forward to speaking with you. I'm free for an interview on the day after tomorrow. I'm a bit busy during the morning, but we can talk about it over a quick lunch tomorrow, if you're interested?"
"Oh, wow, uh, yeah sure. Lunch sounds great, Bernice!"
Bernice, taking on a mildly seductive tone, says, "I'm really looking forward to getting to know you a bit more, Annette. I'm a big fan of your writing, by the way. You seem like a talented writer. See you tomorrow."
Annette is taken aback by this and is blushing, "Uh, wow, thank you. That means a lot. I'm looking forward to getting to know you too, Bernice. Goodnight!"
"G'night."
Annette hangs up the phone and lets out a loud, exasperated sigh of relief. She goes into her room, where she takes a quick shower, and slumps into her bed.
She's exhausted but happy with the fact that she's managed to score an interview with the mayoral candidate herself!
A few miles away, Lucile has returned back to her somewhat secluded cottage. She takes off her coat and shoes, and throws them on a nearby chair. She takes off her dress and walks into her bathroom.
She turns on the shower and stands under the warm water. It was most certainly a wild night for her. She looks forward to telling her Sire how good of a pick Maya would be for Clan Tremere.
After she showers, she slips into her black nightgown, walks into her "lab", and opens her fridge where she stores all sorts of vials of blood. She proceeds to drink them one after the other, feeling satiated.
Luckily, she managed to keep her Hunger and the Beast at bay. If she wasn't able to control herself during such a passionate encounter, it would have been a very VERY unpleasant night for both her and Maya.
She walks up to her desk and sits on her chair. She turns on her laptop, where she types up a report regarding new Thaumaturgical observations. Very formal and neutral sounding, of course.
She takes a look at some of her formulae and tries to make sense of them.
Finally, she gets the report all printed out and seals it in an a file containing many other reports (mainly Thaumaturgical in nature) that she's written over the past few weeks.
The Kindred courier from down south is coming soon and she needs to be ready to hand this over to him.
For now, she locks the file in her safe and decides to conduct more experiments in her makeshift lab. Nothing much else to do for a Kindred head-over-heels in love during this time of night.
Although, a part of her wishes to tell Eleanor everything about what transpired. She hasn't met someone like Maya in all her Unlife.
A woman with such a bright and open spirit. She wonders if she could ever truly be happy with someone like that.
Would an Embrace jeopardize this blossoming relationship?
It's not something the Tremere wishes to even contemplate. But the thought does pop into her head every now and then during the rest of the night.
She picks up her phone and looks at a photo of her and Eleanor during happier times. She sighs to herself. A part of her feels a little guilty for even thinking of leaving her old friend, teacher, and Sire for a newfound mortal lover.
But the temptation is quite real. She shakes her head and puts her phone down.
Chapter 4: The Morning After
The sun slowly rises over the town of Plaintry, casting a warm glow over the rooftops and streets. The clouds are wispy and pink, and the sky is a warm shade of orange.
Now that that great ball of fire has risen, Kindred fall asleep as mortals rise from theirs. What does today hold?
Do Kindred dream like mortals as they sleep? If so, what do they dream of? Power? Blood? Domination? Vengeance? Love?
The town comes to life, with people waking up, going to work, running errands, and so on and so forth.
Maya is one of those people who rise early and have a full day ahead. She still can't get over last night, the sex was truly amazing.
But she has a job to do, which means no time for dwelling on her amazingly sensual night.
She immediately saves Lucile's phone number and decides to call her later in the evening.
She brushes her teeth, puts on her white blouse and black skirt, and heads out to the café to meet Annette for breakfast (and by breakfast, it's mostly cups of coffee).
Annette, meanwhile, has decided to sleep a little longer.
After all, she only has a lunch appointment with Bernice in a few hours.
Back at the café, Maya is already behind the counter guzzling cups of coffee, waiting for Annette to show up. She keeps looking at her phone, hoping that Annette will call or text. It's not like her to miss the most important meal of the day.
Anyways, Maya can't sit around here all day.
She heads into the offices of Nimbus magazine.
The office of Nimbus magazine is located on the 2nd floor of a rundown building in downtown Plaintry. The walls are a dull beige color, and the furniture looks like it came from the thrift shop down the street.
Clearly signs of a small budget, but their articles and photos are quite adequate.
A few employees are already there at this hour, working diligently on their reports and typing away on their clunky mechanical keyboards.
Maya, in her white blouse and black skirt, heads to her cubicle, which is messy, with some food crumbs on it and so on. Her computer is and on, with various tabs and documents open. She has a few pictures and knick-knacks on her desk, but the overall vibe of the place is...weird.
Like it's always on the edge of a tall cliff; about to fall, but not quite.
Maya, looking at her phone for the umpteenth time, says to herself, "What the hell is going on with her? She's never this late."
It's not like she's an early bird either. Maya leaves a message for her best friend.
"Hey, Annette, u ok? You're supposed 2b here. Lemme guess, 2 many drinks last nite? Listen, I wanna talk 2u. How about we grab some lunch?"
At this point, Maya hears a voice behind her, "Well, well, well. Look who's in early today."
Maya turns around and sees her boss, Edgar. He's a a rather large and imposing middle-aged man, with a chiseled chin and a bit of a five o'clock shadow. He has a deep voice, and wears a flannel shirt and jeans.
Not exactly boss material, but he's good people (more or less). He gives relative editorial freedom to Maya, who can write whatever she wants (which isn't much to begin with).
In fact, Edgar is more than happy to let Maya do her own thing and come up with ideas. In return, he gets a good article or 2 a month.
4 if Maya's in a really good mood.
Edgar cheerfully asks, "So, Maya, how was the gala yesterday night? I was there, but I had to leave early. It got a little too crowded for my taste. Anyways, I saw that new mayoral candidate, Bernice, speak. She seems nice. Very driven. I'm sure someone here would have a field day with her."
Maya shrugs, "Eh, interviewing big shots is more Annette's thing. Speaking of, you haven't seen her? She call in sick, maybe?"
Edgar shakes his head, "Nope. She was supposed to be here by now, but she hasn't showed up."
Maya, surprised, asks, "You're kidding me! Well, it's not like her to do this. Just between me and you, I think she had a few too many last night, if you catch my drift."
Edgar simply laughs, "Ah, ha ha ha, something about the champagne at that gala was to die for. I swear, they could make the booze at a gas station taste better."
Maya sarcastically remarks, "Yeah, the champagne probably had gold in it, heh heh."
The 2 of them laugh and go on about the gala and other things. Maya is a little worried about Annette.
After about an hour of internet browsing, in an attempt to look for a topic to write about, Maya's phone vibrates.
She looks at her screen and sees a message from Annette: "Eyyyy, sry 4 bailing on u. I'm a bit hungover. Don't worry tho, I'll B fine. @ the office in 15. I got something BIG to tell you. XOXO."
Maya raises her eyebrow and wonders what "something BIG" that Annette has going on. She can't help but smile and let out an excited "Wow" to herself.
About 20 minutes later, the doors to the office open and in comes Annette. She's wearing a blue jacket over a white blouse and a black skirt. Her hair is slightly disheveled, and her makeup is a little off.
Annette's boss, Edgar, gives her a look-over, "Oh, hey, Annette. Good morning, or should I say good afternoon? Heh heh. I got your text, let's go to my office. Maya, could you bring us some coffee and feel free help yourself to one of the muffins in the break room? I think they're still hot."
Maya replies, "Uh...ok, sure thing."
The muffins weren't hot and there was a fly sitting on one of them. The coffee was nearly over. No surprise there, though. Maya heads into the break room and brings back 2 cups of lukewarm coffee.
Edgar's office is located in a dingy corner of the building. He has a small desk and a few chairs, and his window looks out on the street and the buildings across.
Edgar sits in his chair and gestures for Maya and Annette to sit.
Maya gives Annette a look and mouths, "What's up?"
Annette is clearly excited (albeit slightly nervous), but she takes a deep breath and sits down next to Maya.
Maya whispers, "Something big, huh? Like what? A new story? Are Tyler and Sally back together again?"
Annette is about to say something when Edgar clears his throat and says, "So, Annette, tell me about this 'big' news of yours. Your uh...text was quite intriguing."
Maya looks at Annette with anticipation and wonder.
Annette takes another deep breath and then lets it all out at once, "OK, so, I was at the gala last night and, I met someone. I spoke to her a bit. It was Bernice and she...we just kinda talked."
Maya says, "Yeah, yeah, yeah, go on. This sounds interesting."
Edgar chimes in, "Yep, it certainly does!"
Annette sips her lukewarm coffee and continues, "She gave me her number and I called her in the middle of the night. We kinda uh, made plans for lunch, today. Well, not plans per se. Just a meeting. She said she liked my articles. I told her what I do here at Nimbus. So, I asked her for an interview."
Maya and Edgar, intrigued, urge Annette to continue.
She goes on, "She said yes. I'm uh...gonna meet her for lunch today, just to get to know her a bit more. Also, we can go over some questions for the interview tomorrow."
Maya excitedly giggles, "Ooooh, yay! Congrats, Annette. That's really cool."
"I know, right!" Annette says, grinning.
Edgar gets up and shakes Annette's hand, "Annette, this could very well be what Nimbus needs! Congratulations, my dear girl! You did it!"
Annette beams with joy, "Yeah, thanks! This is really good news. This could mean a lot for us, for the magazine!"
Edgar takes a sip of his coffee and scowls a bit, "Anyways, let's not get carried away. I'll make the necessary arrangements with Bernice's campaign team. One more thing, Annette, I want to see some nice, quality stuff from you, young lady. This isn't Tyler and Sally you're talking about here."
Annette nods and says, "Thanks, Mr. Edgar. I won't let you down, promise."
"Good."
With that, Maya and Annette leave Edgar's office, with Maya heading to the break room and Annette returning to her cubicle.
Annette, slightly anxious, thinks to herself, "God, this is probably the high-point of my not-so-illustrious career. You're going places, girl. You're finally going places."
She smiles to herself and sits in her chair. She's trying to imagine what Bernice is like. She can't help but feel a bit more...excited than usual.
A new opportunity. Finally.
She gets to looking up Bernice on her socials. The woman is everywhere. YouTube, Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, even LinkedIn, and all sorts of other social media. Bernice has quite a following as well.
Annette is intrigued, to say the least. She quickly jots down her interview questions and watches some videos of Bernice giving speeches and such.
"She's hot," Annette thinks to herself. "Like really hot."
Annette continues watching a video of Bernice speaking at some rally, but her mind is clearly focused elsewhere. She looks Bernice up on Wikipedia and learns that she's bisexual.
"Hmmm. Interesting...Wow, look at her, she's--"
Annette quickly realizes that she's got a lunch "date" with Bernice, whom she will soon be interviewing for the first time in her career. She's done interviews before, but not with someone so important.
It's like a business lunch, but there's no "business" business. Annette's head is in the clouds at this point, but she manages to pull herself back to reality and quickly check herself over and apply some more makeup.
Time really does fly. Annette's and Bernice's lunch appointment is in a few minutes, so Annette leaves the building and hails a cab to the restaurant- an upscale place downtown, with a few famous chefs as its co-owners.
The cab driver, a young and very handsome guy, asks Annette, "Where to?"
Annette tells him the address to The Gastronova and they begin the short drive. Traffic is a little hectic due to the time.
A few minutes later, the cab pulls up to the entrance of The Gastronova. The place is fairly empty at this time of day.
Bernice, in her own thoughts, wonders what Annette's like. She's clearly a professional, judging by her appearance at the gala, but what's she like? What kind of questions is she gonna ask?
Along with her campaign manager and legal team, she's done some research into Annette.
It's quite the average résumé. She has an MA in journalism from Stanford, and is working for a somewhat well-known magazine. It's clear that she's got ambitions and plans to climb the ladder, but is she really cut out for it?
Is something (or someone) holding her back?
"Well, she's cute," Bernice thinks to herself, "and she's definitely intelligent. She's got drive, that's for sure. We'll see how the interview goes."
Annette pays the driver and steps out of the cab, breathing in that unique, unique aroma that only this part of town seemed to have. She looks up at the building, at the sign, and at the line to get in.
"It's been a while since I've eaten in such a fancy restaurant," she thinks to herself. She takes out her phone and calls Bernice, who answers right away.
"Hi, Annette, thanks for calling. I'm already here and seated in the VIP section."
"Oh, great! See you soon."
Annette hangs up and walks to the restaurant entrance. She shows her ID to the security guard at the door.
She steps into the restaurant and is immediately greeted by a young man who escorts her to the VIP section on the 1st floor.
Bernice, wearing a pink blazer, black trousers, a white undershirt, and a pair of sunglasses, waves Annette over and says, "Over here, Annette."
Annette, having found Bernice, approaches her with a confident stride.
Bernice extends her hand and says, "Glad you could make it."
Annette eagerly shakes Bernice's hand.
"Yes, me too."
"Please, have a seat."
Bernice motions toward the chair in front of her. Annette sits down, feeling a little intimidated by the whole affair.
The waiter arrives and takes their orders. Annette orders a plate of steak tartare while Bernice orders salmon and rice.
"So, Bernice, uh, thank you for inviting me here. I'm honored that you chose to do an exclusive with Nimbus magazine."
"Oh, the pleasure's all mine. I didn't want to say this at the gala, but I've been reading Nimbus for almost 3 years straight. Your articles are...well, quite exciting, if I must say."
Annette nervously says, "Oh, wow, that's really flattering. Thank you."
Bernice places her hand on Annette's, smiling.
Annette can't help but blush a little.
Bernice, taking on a seductive tone, says, "Oh, it's nothing, really. So, I take it you're here to prep for tomorrow's interview? Don't worry, you'll do great."
Annette, a little nervous, but still excited, asks, "Y--Yes, thank you. So, is there anything you wanna avoid talking about? I guess your parents' legal issues are gonna be off limits?"
Bernice laughs a little and replies, "Heh heh, yeah, well, I am running for Mayor, so we'll have to leave that one alone. Also, my legal team advised me not to bring it up. It's quite a delicate matter involving national security. Let's focus instead on my platform and vision for Plaintry."
"Of course. What about your past? Personal life?"
Bernice leans closer to Annette and says, "Personal life...hmmm, let's see. Well, I grew up in a relatively humble household. My parents worked hard to provide for me, while fighting for their country. We didn't have much, but we always had each other. Relatable, don't you think?"
Annette nods and says, "I guess so, yeah."
Bernice goes on, "Anyways, I'm a self-made woman. I graduated top of my class, and went on to become a lawyer. I worked for a few years at a local firm, until I decided to run for Mayor."
"Yeah, let's lean in on your career in law a bit, OK? Maybe talk a bit about why you ran for Mayor? It's not every day that a person like you, a Yale-educated attorney, just decides to run for office, even here in Plaintry. Why the change of pace? What drew you here?"
Bernice, a little amused, replies, "Heh heh. Yes, let's touch on that. I just felt that Plaintry needed fresh leadership; a leader who could bring security and prosperity to the town."
Annette raises an eyebrow, "Security? What do you mean by that?"
Bernice leans in closer and says, in a hushed voice, "I mean the the increase in drug trafficking and smuggling, the general state of disarray in the town, and so on and so forth."
"Right, right. Just so you know, I'm not gonna go easy on the questions tomorrow. But I'm just curious, is there anything you wanna share with me? Any concerns or worries you might have?"
Bernice nods and says, "Absolutely. I'm very concerned with the state of Plaintry's economy. We could use investment from outside, for starters. As you know, many businesses have relocated to the next county over. We need a revitalization of the town, one that'll attract investors."
Annette nods but bluntly states, "Investments? Won't that have an effect on the local mom-and-pop shops around town?"
Bernice, taken aback by the question, but still calm, replies, "Well, that's just the cost of doing business, dear."
Annette is initially at a loss for words, but says, "Uh, r--right. Of course." She politely smiles.
Bernice smiles back, sensing the slight discomfort of Annette.
The 2 go over some more interview questions. Bernice answers them expertly and honestly (or about as "expertly" and "honestly as a politician would). She's certainly experienced in these types of affairs.
As they're wrapping up, 2 waiters arrive carrying their meals. The steak tartare for Annette and the salmon and rice for Bernice.
The mayoral candidate orders a glass of wine, which Annette declines. They have a pleasant, yet somewhat formal, meal together.
After a few bites and sips of wine, Bernice asks, "So, Annette, how's life been treating you? It's been quite a while since you interviewed someone, yes?"
"Oh, uh, life's been treating me OK, I suppose. I got a decent enough job at Nimbus, so that's cool. Yeah, last interview I did was with Tyler and Sally. That was when they were 'back together' for like the 3rd time. You know how love goes, sometimes."
Bernice, amused, replies, "Ha ha, yes. It can be quite the roller coaster, can't it? Tell me, do you have someone in your life?"
Annette is a bit flushed and says, "Oh, uh, nope, not at the moment. Uh...how about you, if you don't mind me asking?"
Bernice, a hint of mischief in her voice, says, "Actually, I'm quite single myself."
Annette, after a few seconds, asks, "Really? But you're running for Mayor, surely there's someone willing to go out with you."
"True, true. I've dated in the past, but none of them were quite the right fit for me. Besides, being Mayor is a full-time job. But perhaps, after the election, I'll have time to find...someone."
Annette's and Bernice's eyes meet. Bernice smiles and winks at her.
After a few more minutes, they're done with their meals and are just sitting and enjoying each other's company.
After some more pleasantries and small-talk, Annette's curiosity gets the better of her. She feels a rush of boldness and asks, "You're bisexual, right?"
Bernice laughs a bit, "I've made no secret of that in the past, dear. Why?"
"Aw, no reason. Just curious is all."
Bernice remarks, "So, Annette, do you have any ambitions in life? Any goals? Or is Nimbus 'it'? Do forgive my bluntness."
Annette replies, "No, no, it's OK. Well, I do. Real big-time ones. It's just that...sometimes things don't work out as planned. I got a taste for what it's like being on the top at the gala. All that power, that influence, that energy, the vibes, it was intoxicating, and...I feel like I've missed that shot at something bigger."
Bernice nods and says, "I see. It's never too late, though. For a woman like you, the world is your oyster. You have drive, ambition, intelligence, looks- everything you need to succeed in this country, in this world."
Annette blushes and bashfully responds, "T--thank you. It's just that, uh...it's not easy finding opportunities like the one at the gala. Hell, that's the first time I've ever seen a politician like yourself, much less speak with one, or interview one, and be in a restaurant like this with them. It's a new experience, you could say."
Bernice takes Annette's hand and gently caresses it, "And I'm glad you're enjoying it. You should. After all, opportunities like these are a rare commodity, and one should grab them by the horns and ride them into the sunset."
That's not the only kind of "riding" Annette was currently thinking about.
Annette blushes even more and asks, with a hint of seduction in her voice, "Ride them? Really? I--Into the sunset?"
Bernice, not letting go of Annette's hand, says, "Oh, yes, in fact, I know this is quite sudden, but, would you like to join me for a drink later tonight?"
Annette's heart skips a beat and she says, almost whispering, "Uh, I gotta prep for the interview today. Let's uh...let's meet after the interview is over?"
Bernice grins and says, with a hint of mischief in her voice, "I like your attitude. Alright, how about we meet tomorrow after the interview? Back at my place?"
Whoa! Annette's heart is beating at light speed at this point. Her cheeks are flushed. Her palms are sweaty. Her knees are weak.
Bernice senses Annette's uneasiness and says, in a reassuring voice, "Don't worry, dear. I'll take good care of you. Besides, tomorrow's the interview and what happens after is purely an...exclusive 'behind-the-scene', if you get my drift."
Annette, finally composing herself, says, with a sly smirk, "Ah, yes, heh heh, yeah, sure. Sounds great."
Bernice releases Annette's hand, which was sweaty by this point.
After a few more minutes, both women pay their respective cheques and walk out of the restaurant together. It certainly costed a bit more than expected, but Annette can claim expenses anyways.
Bernice gives Annette a hug and says, "Alright, it was lovely speaking with you, Annette. See you tomorrow."
Annette's practically melting with excitement. This is certainly an...opportunity. One she will not pass up on.
"Sure! See you tomorrow, Bernice! Bye."
With everyone either looking on their phones, at their food, or out the window, Annette leans in and kisses Bernice on the cheek. Just a light peck, not a passionate make out.
Bernice smiles.
Annette leaves, feeling giddy and at top of the world (or nearly getting there).
"Wow. Did that just happen?" she thinks to herself.
Bernice gets into her SUV and heads back to her office. Tomorrow's undoubtedly gonna be a busy day for her, but she's looking forward to spending some 'alone time' with Annette after the interview.
Back at Nimbus magazine, Maya is busy doing her work. It's not exactly glamorous or exciting, but it's what keeps her afloat. She's been checking up on Annette from time to time, wondering where she's been.
Someone else, however, was at the back of her mind- Lucile. She hasn't messaged her since that amazing night of passionate love making.
"Why hasn't she messaged me? What is she doing? Why isn't she messaging me? Maybe she's busy, that's all," Maya thinks to herself, trying to keep her speedy thoughts at bay and focus on work.
A few minutes pass, and she decides to send Lucile a message: "Hey, sorry I haven't reached out sooner. Been really busy with work. HBU?"
Lucile can't reply as she's still in day-sleep whilst the afternoon sun streams into the Nimbus office.
Maya is typing away when Edgar pops into her cubicle.
He asks, "Hey, Maya, got anything good for us today?"
Maya is slightly taken aback by Edgar's question, "Uh, nothing really. No story ideas or anything. Sorry."
Edgar laughs and says, "OK, OK, well, just let me know if you got something, alright?"
"Sure. Of course."
After Edgar leaves Maya's cubicle, she checks her phone once again- no reply. Lucile hasn't even read the message yet.
Maya is a little disappointed, but then she thinks to herself, "Shit, maybe she's busy. Maybe she's too busy to reply to me. Oh my god, am I...am I bothering her? I wonder if she's OK."
Annette returns to the Nimbus offices and goes to speak to Maya.
Maya sees Annette and says, "Oh, there's the star gal herself! So, how was lunch with Bernice? Did you get some good info for tomorrow's interview? She didn't try anything on you, right?"
Annette, grinning, says, "Oh, no, nothing of the sort. She was perfect. She's very...driven. She's got this energy, y'know. You can really feel it when you're around her."
"Yeah, I bet," Maya replies, blushing a bit.
Annette continues, "Anyways, I gotta go talk to Edgar and prep for tomorrow. Listen, we gotta catch up after the interview. I wanna know how you and that brunette you were with all night at the gala are doing. By the way, who was she?"
"Uh, yeah, yeah, for sure."
Annette returns to her cubicle, her mind solely focused on Bernice (and tomorrow's interview, of course).
Maya, in the meanwhile, can't help but think, "Oh, yeah, Lucile. Was it just a one-off thing or...I mean, she did leave her number. Maybe she's busy. Maybe she skipped town. Oh my god, was it just a one-night stand? No, get a hold of yourself, Maya! She said she's free later tonight. That's what she said. I think she said that? Oh my god, I'm so stupid."
She continues to ponder these thoughts when Edgar pops in again, "Maya, how about some ideas for a story? I sent you a few emails. Give 'em a look at. I gotta go and coordinate tomorrow's interview with Bernice's people."
"Sure, thanks, Edgar."
There certainly was a lot riding on this interview. It was the biggest thing since Tyler and Sally. Or, the biggest thing that could possibly happen to a small-town magazine on the brink of going out of business.
Edgar leaves Maya's cubicle, and Maya takes a deep breath, still worried about why Lucile hasn't returned any of her calls and messages.
"I guess she's just really, really tired...or busy," she thinks to herself.
Bernice returns back to her office. She's looking forward to seeing Annette again. Her assistant then reminds her that 2 individuals had donated the most to her campaign (with the donations coming in a night ago).
They want to see her privately in a few hours.
She doesn't know who they are, but wonders why they would want to speak to her so quickly (or why pour in such huge amounts of money on a town's mayoral candidate when Senators in Congress are practically gagging to become someone's sugar baby for half the amount).
"Do you have any idea who these people are? Not that I'm complaining of course. The campaign could use all the funding it can get."
The assistant shakes his head.
Bernice is intrigued, and she is interested in meeting these anonymous donors, no doubt.
She continues thinking to herself, "The interview with Annette, and then a 'special behind-the-scenes' with her. It'll be a busy day for sure. I best clear my appointments for the rest of the day."
Bernice tells her assistant to make sure the rest of her appointments are canceled. She even gives him the rest of tomorrow off.
"Thank you, Ms. Bernice," the assistant joyfully says.
An hour or so later, Maya decides to take a break and go for a walk around town. Maybe some fresh air will help her come up with some story ideas.
Maya walks outside and looks up at the sky. The sun is casting a warm glow over the town. The trees are green, and the air smells fresh and clean. She feels the breeze on her face, and hears the faint sound of a bicycle being pedaled by some kid down the block.
The colors are vivid and crisp. The hustle and bustle of the town is all around her. She feels alive.
Maya keeps walking and, as she's nearing a small park in the center of town, she notices someone she might recognize. A young man in a hoodie and jeans leaving a building, looking a bit shifty. He looks over his shoulder as if to check if someone is following him.
Maya gets a chill up her spine. Something isn't right. She goes into the building to see what the deal is.
The building turns out to be an office building and Maya recognizes it as the one of those rent-a-workspace type of buildings. There are only a few people inside, and none of them seem to notice her.
Her curiosity getting the best of her, she carefully walks up the stairs, looking around in each of the hallways.
It doesn't take her long to realize that there is probably some less-than-savory stuff going on in the building. One of the offices, which has no name on it, seems to be emanating a bit of noise.
Maya peers in and sees some recording equipment, a multi-monitor setup, a few folders with photos in them, a laptop, and a printer.
"Well, well, well, what's that? This doesn't look like a normal office. Not by a long shot," she remarks to herself.
Just then, as Maya was theorizing what was going on in that "office" and debating whether to barge in, a man screams, "HEY! YOU!"
Maya heart skips a beat as she turns around to see a big man with a thick mustache, a button down shirt, and a scary look on his face.
He demands, "What the fuck are you doing here? Who the hell are you, and how did you get here?"
Maya, feeling a little spooked, replies, "Uh...uh...I...uh--"
The man barks at her, "Get the hell outta here! This place is off-limits!"
Maya, not wanting to mess with this guy, takes off, scrambling down the stairs. She rushes to the door and steps out, breathing heavily.
That was quite an experience. What the hell is going on in this town?
She looks back at the office, thinking, "Who the hell was that dude? Definitely not a local. And what were those people doing with all that expensive-looking stuff there? They must have been up to something sketchy, right?"
Maya heads into the park and takes a walk around the area. Her heart is still beating a mile a minute from that unexpected encounter with the mysterious man.
"Geez, this place is just full of surprises, isn't it?"
"Surprises" she wasn't wholly ready for.
The day's almost up, so she heads back to the office, and as she's walking through town, she can't stop thinking about that strange "office" room.
"What's going on around here?" she asks herself.
She makes a mental note of that "rent-a-workspace" building she was just at- Froco Building. Furthermore, she decides to get a list of all the businesses currently renting space there.
A few minutes later, Maya heads into the Nimbus offices. Enough adventures for one day.
Edgar is there with Annette, and they're talking to one of their editors. They were certainly going all-out for tomorrow's interview.
Annette is undoubtedly nervous, rubbing her hands, tapping her feet, and in general being fidgety. She's clearly excited about the opportunity, but is also a bit apprehensive.
An editor says, "Alright, well, we'll be meeting with Bernice's team tomorrow morning. Remember, Annette, AVOID mentioning Bernice's parents and their legal...issues. It's pretty controversial and Nimbus doesn't need that kind of attention. Just keep things light and conversational. Talk about the town and why Bernice is the right choice for the people of Plaintry."
Annette nods, "OK. Light and conversational. Got it."
Meanwhile, Maya is checking out the list of businesses currently renting at the Froco building. "Wow, that's not many businesses," she thinks to herself. Among them is one in particular that piques Maya's curiosity.
She decides to do some further digging, and searches up this company- Vespire Inc.
The search engine brings up an image of what seems like an energy company logo. A bland-looking website with the name "Vespire Inc" and a phone number pops up, along with the description of being a company providing energy-related solutions to businesses in Plaintry and other surrounding towns.
Maya decides to try her luck and call them, but there's no response. The website, in its entirety, is not that interesting and some links lead to 404 pages. Go figure.
Maya decides to continue looking into them.
"This all feels very sketchy and fishy," she mutters to herself.
"Hey, Maya!" Annette calls out.
Maya nearly jumps.
"Whoa, hey. Didn't mean to scare you," Annette says, hands raised in a placating gesture.
"Hey, I'm stressed too, believe me. This is like one of the biggest stories Nimbus has ever done. One of the biggest YOU'VE ever done, Annette."
Annette takes a deep breath and replies, "Yeah, you're right. Listen, I'm gonna head out now. Go over my stuff, practice in front of the mirror, maybe get some rest. I don't want to fuck this up, Maya. You know that, right? It's all riding on this. Not just the future of Nimbus magazine, but also my future in journalism and the writing biz."
Maya calms her friend down, "Don't go too hard on yourself. When this is all over, I'll always be there for you. You know that, right? We're friends. We've been through so much together."
Annette smiles a little and says, "Thanks. You've been real good to me, Maya."
Annette turns to leave as Maya resumes looking into Vespire Inc. After even more fruitless searching, dozens of fake and/or empty LinkedIn profiles, even more 404 pages, and some forum threads about energy companies, Maya is almost certain something is up with that particular business.
She sighs and rubs her forehead, "Well, what now?"
A few hours pass by, and it's now 9:30 PM. Ding! A notification on Maya's phone. Ding! Another one. Ding!
Maya, a bit tired at this point, grunts and checks her phone- 2 texts, from Lucile!
"Heeeey. Sorry. Just woke up. let's meet?"
"Quite the time to be getting up. That must be some serious insomnia," Maya thinks to herself, a bit of a smirk on her face.
Maya begins tapping the keyboard on her screen: "sure. Still @ work. My place in 15?"
The texting is instantaneous: "Nope. MY place. Will send location. see u soon, babe ;)"
Maya's heart skips a beat and she feels butterflies in her stomach. It was certainly an eventful day for her, and this little love affair she's found herself in will no doubt help take her mind off things.
She checks in with Edgar and tells him that she's heading out. He waves her goodbye and she does likewise.
Ding! Maya opens the GPS to see how far Lucile's cottage is from where she's at. Ah, not too far.
Nice!
Maya decides to catch the next bus and be there in no time. As she's walking out, another notification- Ding!
"Sent the location. Looking forward to seeing u, sweetie. :)"
A smile spreads across Maya's face, and she's practically skipping towards the bus stop, with her heart and head both light as air. She catches the bus to the location indicated by Lucile.
As she's sitting in the bus, her thoughts once again return to the strange building, and that "business," "Vespire Inc," along with the intimidating man she met in there. It's as if something is going on behind-the-scenes in Plaintry.
Maya shakes her head and tries to focus on Lucile for now.
Meanwhile, Lucile is getting her place in order, hastily tossing away old tomes or anything that might constitute a Masquerade breach. Her Sire insisted on not having guests, but Maya was different. Special.
And, possibly, a new companion in these endless nights. Immortality can be so lonely, who knew? She wanted this to go smoothly.
It's 10 PM. The bus gets to Maya's stop, and she gets off.
She begins walking down the path towards Lucile's cottage, taking in the lush greenery and the tranquil sounds of the countryside (Maya doesn't usually go this far out of town).
She feels at peace and in a weird sort of way, home. The air is warm, but there's a slight chill in it that makes Maya wrap her jacket tightly around her.
She hears a noise up ahead, and she looks up to see the silhouette of a cottage, nestled among a cluster of trees and red poinsettia bushes.
"This must be it," she says to herself, with a grin on her face. She's finally at the door.
Lucile hears Maya approach the cottage, and she opens the door with a big smile.
Without hesitating, Lucile grabs Maya inside and pulls her into a passionate kiss. Maya returns the kiss, her hands snaking around Lucile's waist, their tongues intertwined. The door shuts behind them as Lucile embraces Maya tightly, bodies pressing together.
Lucile pulls back from the kiss, her eyes full of desire.
Maya's eyes are wide open, her lips slightly parted, her heart beating faster and faster.
Lucile chuckles and says, "I've missed you. So so much."
"I missed you too..."
Maya looks around Lucile's humble abode and remarks, "Nice, cozy place you got here. Much nicer than my apartment. Anyways, how long have you been living here? Seems like a while."
Lucile, a bit of uncertainty in her voice, replies, "A while. Quite a while. Time does fly, I guess. Heh heh."
Maya strokes Lucile's cheek and asks, "Oh, really? A while? Hmmmm, OK. How's work? Dissect and frogs lately? Anything exciting?"
"Well, yes, of course. But it's kind of a...secret. Let's just say that I'm under a sort of NDA. Sorry. I wish I could tell you about my work, but I...I can't. At least not y--"
Maya laughs, "Oh, yeah. No worries. I know a thing or two about secretive stuff. But it's fine. We can always talk about other things. You got any grub here? I haven't eaten much and I got something exciting to share with you."
Lucile says, "Well, I got some leftovers in the fridge. Lemme check. Really? Cool. Cool."
Maya smiles, "Great!"
Lucile and Maya head to the kitchen.
Lucile pulls out a plate with some Lasagna, "Is this ok, sweetie?"
Maya is astonished, "Wow! That's your leftovers? What about you? How are you going to eat? Or are you just going to watch me?"
Lucile laughs, "Oh, I'm on uh...a bit of a diet. But first, I'm sure you're hungry. Go on, sit down. Make yourself at home."
Lucile is on a diet...a diet of blood. She had already satisfied her Hunger before Maya's arrival.
Lucile serves the leftover lasagna, which is pretty tasty, by the way. The cheese is perfectly gooey.
"You like it?" asks Lucile, with a smirk.
"Love it."
Lucile sits beside Maya and asks, "So, what's this 'exciting' thing you wanna tell me about?"
Maya excitedly recounts what she discovered today at Froco Building and Vespire Inc., which is, in her mind, some kind of shadowy and secretive organization operating in town.
"It's weird, y'know. I found that sketchy-ass room and a creepy guy that threatened me and kicked me out, but when I looked up the name and company of this sketchy energy business, I couldn't find much. Nothing, really. I think this Vespire business is hiding something."
Lucile, clearly concerned, places a hand on Maya's thigh, "Are you OK, did they hurt you?"
Maya takes another bite of the Lasagna. "Hey, no worries, I'm fine. Besides, I think I have an idea of what's going on."
Lucile gently says, "Oh, really? Go on, don't keep me waiting."
"Vampires."
Shit.
"Shit," Lucile thinks to herself.
Maya goes on, "Look, I don't wanna scare you. But tell me, have you ever woken up feeling dizzy, tired, short of breath? Have you ever found furniture in your house moved around even though you absolutely remember NOT touching it or moving it an inch?"
She's clearly rehearsed that question before.
Lucile shifts in her seat and scratches her neck, trying to remain composed, "Wow. Well, no. No to the first, and uh...I just don't really care about furniture and stuff being moved. Um...uh...what makes you think it's vampires? It could be work? Stress, maybe? A gas leak in your place, perhaps?"
Maya, her mouth full of Lasagna, continues, "Nah, my place is ok. A bit damp around the edges, but ok."
Lucile, unsure how to proceed, "Uh, yeah? So, what does this have to do with those people at Froco?"
Maya continues, "Think about it, right? Maybe they're like...looking for the vampires too, y'know? Or maybe they're the vamps! No, wait, vamps can't go out in the sun. Nah, they're looking for the vampires. I'm actually a part of an online forum that's been talking about 'em. It's pretty hush hush. That's why I'm surprised there are other people looking into them as well."
Lucile is definitely on guard now, "A forum? Huh. Right, well, uh...and these people on these forums, they've been having similar experiences to you?"
"Yep. Why," Maya asks, her mouth full.
Lucile nervously laughs and gets up, "Oh, just curious is all. Hey, would you like something to drink?"
"I'll have a soda or a water, thanks," Maya says, completely unaware of the tense mood.
"Right, sure," says Lucile as she's going into her fridge.
"Damn it, Lucile. This isn't good. Potential Masquerade breach. Damnit. I gotta talk to Eleanor, but she's at the auditorium meeting right now. Damn it. Damn it. Ok, calm down. Maya's not SI, I think, right? Maybe it's nothing, or just some wacky conspiracies," Lucile rambles to herself as she looks for a drink for Maya.
She returns and says with a can of Dr. Pepper in her hand, "Dr. Pepper's all I got. This OK?"
Maya nods, "Sure. Thanks. So, anyways, where was I? Oh, yeah, so, uh...that forum, we got people from all over the world--"
Lucile drifts off for a moment and contemplates changing the subject.
"This could go wrong. I don't wanna jeopardize our relationship, we have something special going on here. No, it's OK, it's going to be OK. She's not SI. She's just a bit more...curious, I suppose."
Maya slightly notices that Lucile isn't paying attention, "Oh, sorry, I went off, didn't I? I promised Annette I wouldn't go all 'tinfoil hat'." She looks down at the floor and silently sips on her Dr. Pepper.
Lucile puts a hand around Maya's shoulder, "It's alright. The main thing is that you're safe. And that's all that matters, right?"
Maya grins, "Yeah, yeah. It is."
Lucile smiles and kisses her on the cheek.
"Uh...you really think I'm safe, I mean, they won't like come after me or something, right?"
Lucile can't say it out loud, so says it to herself instead, "I won't let them."
She strokes Maya's red hair and says, "You're special, Maya. You're safe. Nothing will happen to you."
Maya blushes, "Thanks. I'm so glad we met. I'm so glad--"
Tears start rolling down Maya's cheeks as she starts sobbing a little. She grabs Lucile's hand, "Lucile, I haven't felt like this in a while. I--I...think I'm in lo--"
Lucile cuts her off and kisses her. Their tongues meet once again as they passionately make out on the couch.
Maya starts undoing the buttons of Lucile's dress, and Lucile kisses her way down Maya's neck, paying extra attention to Maya's breasts, and then Lucile's phone rings.
Damn, way to kill the mood.
Lucile answers it and replies, "Hi, Eleanor. OK, alright, see you later."
Lucile curses under her breath, "Sorry, sweetie. That was my...boss. She's gonna be here in a few minutes."
Maya sits up on the couch, a bit startled.
Lucile wipes a few tears from Maya's cheeks and asks, "Are you ok, Maya? I'm so sorry. We could continue later, but she's gonna be here a while, and she'll probably want me to come with her."
Maya's heart is still beating like crazy, but she calms down a little and says, "N--No, no, it's OK. We'll do this another time. I--I...lo--"
Lucile cuts her off again and kisses her, "I know, I know. And I feel the same way, Maya. I'll make sure we talk again soon, alright?"
Maya nods, "Alright, see you around."
Lucile quickly buttons her dress back up and opens the door.
Maya puts on her jacket and steps out, giving Lucile one final kiss on the lips.
Lucile asks, "Tomorrow night, maybe?"
Maya looks down and replies, "I really wish we could see each other in the morning, but insomnia can be a bitch."
"Right. How about I text you later on? We can arrange something, maybe."
"Sure," Maya eagerly replies. She looks up into Lucile's green eyes and says, "Thank you, Lucile. I really appreciate this."
Lucile smiles and says, "Of course, sweetie. Now, go get some sleep. I'll see you soon."
"Alright, see you."
Lucile smiles and waves goodbye. Maya waves back, and as the door closes, Maya stands there, looking at it for a few seconds. She puts a hand over her lips, which were still warm from the passion of the moment.
Lucile shuts the door and thinks to herself, "Alright, Eleanor should be here any moment. Anyways, where the hell is that courier? He was supposed to be here hours ago. Shit."
As Maya is waiting for her bus to arrive, she looks at her phone screen- 11:30 PM.
"God, I feel so sleepy," she mutters to herself.
Just then, an SUV arrives at the cottage. The driver is unknown, with Eleanor in the passenger seat. The horn is honked a few times.
By then, Maya is already on the bus back to her place.
Lucile goes out to say hello to her Sire.
As she's approaching the car, Eleanor looks at her and asks, "Lucile, I'm afraid I have some terrible news. The Caitiff courier has met Final Death. His remains were discovered a few hours ago by a Ravnos."
Lucile's face is frozen in fear and disbelief.
Eleanor continues, "This is unfortunate, but do not worry, we will take care of it."
Lucile invites Eleanor in and goes to the kitchen to grab a vial of blood for her. She thinks, "Damn it, who could've gotten to the courier? Was it those people at Froco? Calm down, Lucile. Anyways, I gotta tell Eleanor about what Maya saw at Froco. And I gotta tell her about Maya and me..."
Lucile arrives with the vial, and Eleanor waves it away in dismissal, "Thank you. But I've already fed tonight."
Lucile puts the vial aside and asks, "Was it the SI?"
Eleanor says, "Highly likely."
Lucile clears her throat, "Listen, I gotta tell you something. It's about Maya. You know, the girl at the gala. Works for Nimbus magazine. She stumbled upon something weird today."
Eleanor raises an eyebrow, "Weird? What do you mean?"
Lucile rubs her neck and says, "Well, she came across an office at the Froco building. It's one of those rentable 'work spaces', right? Anyway, she said she saw some expensive looking computers and other recording equipment, as well as a lot of files. I...I think she might have stumbled onto some kind of SI operation."
Eleanor maintains her calm, "Interesting. There was discussion of an SI-adjacent operation at the meeting today. I will pass this on to Prince Lucas and Dylan."
Lucile, feeling relieved, says, "Alright. Uh...thanks. So, uh--"
Eleanor squints and asks, "I sense that there is something more you wish to tell me, Childe."
"Uh...uh, it's about Maya. You told me to well...assess her. See if she's worthy of the Embrace. Worthy of joining Clan Tremere. Well, I did as you asked. I...seduced her. Eleanor, I feel something I haven't felt when I'm with Maya--"
Eleanor takes on a displeased tone, "I do not recall telling you to seduce this Maya. You were to simply assess her worthiness as potential Kindred."
Wait, what?
Lucile nervously laughs and says, "Wait, what? Eleanor, I CLEARLY recall you telling me to seduce her."
Eleanor looks to the side and adamantly replies, "I do not. If I did, I would've remembered such a thing. I only recall giving you advice on how to approach her and talk to her."
Lucile's eyes open wide.
Eleanor continues, "Moreover, I'm not one to give out such crass advice. The Kindred walk on thin ice as it is. A Masquerade breach would be catastrophic. Such relationships with mortals are a double-edged sword at best."
Lucile tries to reassure herself and sees no point in arguing with her Sire, "Right, yeah, right. Well, for what it's worth, I think Maya would make a great Tremere."
Eleanor curtly nods, "I shall keep that in mind."
After a few minutes of awkward silence, Lucile breaks the ice and sheepishly asks, "So, uh...how was the meeting?"
Eleanor sits down at the dining table and replies, "As well as these things usually are. Apart from the courier's untimely demise, nothing of great note occurred."
Not long ago...
The sky outside the auditorium is dark, and the faint sound of crickets could be heard through the walls. The auditorium is dimly lit by a few flickering light bulbs, and the air is damp and musty.
In the middle of the room are 5 chairs. 1 chair is occupied by a man wearing a hoodie and jeans.
The Thin-Blood, Dylan, looks around and sighs, "I guess they're not coming."
Suddenly, a figure emerges from the shadows, "Apologies for my tardiness. I had Clan-related business to attend to."
"Arman," Dylan says, concealing disdain for the sharply-dressed Ventrue.
Arman, accompanied by his bodyguard (and Ghoul), Rolf, nods at Dylan and sits down.
After 30 or so minutes, another figure enters the room- a woman with short blonde hair and a black dress, her heels clacking against the concrete floor. Ginny of Clan Lasombra.
"Good evening, boys," she says in a neutral tone.
She takes her seat next to Arman.
In comes Eleanor, of Clan Tremere. The elderly woman is wearing a gray dress and a red shawl. She simply says, "Good evening" and sits near Dylan.
Last (but certainly not least) is Prince Lucas, of Clan Ravnos. He struts in wearing a black trench coat, his dark hair slicked back, and a look of utter confidence on his face.
He is accompanied by Sheriff Eunice of Clan Malkavian. Her hair is tied into a bun, and she's wearing a brown tracksuit.
Prince Lucas sits down, smiles, and looks around the room, "Pleasant evening, isn't it?"
"Indeed, I believe it is," Arman says, his voice oozing with faux-respect.
Ginny smirks.
Eleanor doesn't say anything.
Dylan simply stares at the floor.
Prince Lucas continues, "So, what is the how shall I say it, yes, 'agenda' for today's meeting?"
Arman replies, "The Military Intelligence Brigade operation in this town, for starters. Then, there is the matter of the mayoral candidate, her election, and her parents' legal troubles. There is quite a bit to go over, my liege."
Prince Lucas nods, "Of course, of course. And, what more have we found out about this operation 'Memphis Green'?"
Dylan cuts in, "I might've found something. An office at the Froco Building has been rented out to an 'energy' company called Vespire Inc. Someone on the grapevine said Vespire's shady. So, I tried to enter the place but nearly got busted. However, I did manage to grab this USB flash drive on my way out."
Dylan hands over the flash drive to Prince Lucas.
"Vespire, eh? Hmmm. Well, I'll have Arman's people look into that a bit more. I assume that won't be an issue, Arman?"
"Not at all, Prince. Not at all," said with about as much sincerity as a used car salesman.
Prince Lucas turns to Ginny, "Ginny, I am under the impression that--"
Just then, a strange man comes barging into the auditorium. He's nearly out of breath but manages to say, "The courier...he's...he's been destroyed! We found his remains in an abandoned apartment building. It appears he was staked...uh--"
The Prince immediately stands up and grabs the man by the collar, "Staked? You're saying he was staked?"
The man trembles in fear, "Yes, uh...uh...yes, right in the chest. By the time we found him, he was already turning to dust..."
The Prince lets go of the man and regains his composure, "Apologies, Frank. Tell me, how did you know he was there? We agreed to meet here at the auditorium where he would deliver his packages and pick up new ones."
Frank, a short, hairy, man in his mid-30s, replies, "He contacted the emergency number. Said he was being followed. He was really vague about the whole thing, boss. Sounded real scared but wouldn't say much. Just told me to meet him at the abandoned building and bring a few friends along as 'backup'."
Prince Lucas puts his hand on his head, sighs, and says, "Hmph. This is an...unwanted development. Where was the building was located, Frank?"
Frank vaguely gestures with his hands and replies, "On 5th Street. A couple of blocks north of the old bowling alley."
Prince Lucas simply looks away and says, "I see. What about his vehicle? Or his packages, at least? Where are they?"
Frank shrugs, "His vehicle is gone, and so are the packages. Someone must've gotten to 'em. I'm sorry, boss."
Dylan swears underneath his breath, "Shit."
Ginny and Arman remain calm, exchanging a knowing glance for a second.
Eleanor simply looks down at the floor in disappointment.
Prince Lucas takes a deep breath and says, "This doesn't seem like...never mind. Sheriff Eunice, I want you to keep an eye out for a stolen vehicle and any 'peculiar' items that the police may find. Understood?"
She nods, "Yes. I'll need a description of the vehicle, make and model, from your Ghoul."
Prince Lucas continues, "Very well. Now, Frank, I need you to tell me EVERYTHING you saw at the scene. I assume the remains have been cleared out? Were there any mortals nearby that could be considered a Masquerade breach?"
Frank shakes his head, "Nope. There weren't any mortals around. And the body was starting to rot by the time we showed up. But, there was this...how do I say it, yeah, weird vibe I guess? It's probably nothing, boss."
Prince Lucas looks into his Ghoul's eyes and sternly states, "Do not try my patience. If there is something you are withholding, I will personally see to it that you meet a similar fate to the courier. Now. Tell. Me. Everything."
The Ghoul, swayed by Prince Lucas's (mis)use of the Presence Discipline, nearly falls down but manages to catch himself.
"Sorry, boss. Sorry. I...uh felt something lingering in the air. Also, I couldn't shake the feeling that we were being watched. That, and it was quite dark when we showed up; the street lights were busted, and none of our phones or electronics worked for some reason. It was as if the room was...I don't know, shrouded in darkness. Like, really thick, almost blinding darkness."
Prince Lucas clenches his jaw and says, "Most curious." He looks around at the others seated and wishes to say something but decides against it.
Eleanor speaks up, "This is a most unfortunate turn of events. Prince Lucas, what are we to do now? Without a courier, the flow of vital goods and information has been compromised. My Clan will not appreciate this. Perhaps we can utilize the priests that the Lasombra maintain to act as couriers? Until a replacement is found, of course."
Ginny, clearly displeased by the proposition, gives Eleanor a death stare and says, "Our 'system' is for Clan use only. Besides, our guy's been getting cold feet lately. Lots of out-of-town types coming into and going out of the Church at odd times. I don't trust him as much."
Prince Lucas shoots back, "Ginny! Have some consideration. One of ours was destroyed, a courier sent by the Ivory Tower. We will need your Clan to assist us in this matter. At the very least, you could help deliver smaller packages to nearby towns. Is that too much to ask, Shadow?"
Ginny rolls her eyes and sighs, "Fine. I'll talk it over with my people. But this is one time only. Our relationship with the Catholic Church has been under strain lately and the last thing I need is another mess added onto the shit-pile."
Arman, clearly not enjoying the bickering, cuts in, "My liege, I have...an idea. If you would be so kind as to indulge me."
Prince Lucas, still frustrated, "What is it, Blue Blood? Speak."
Arman clears his throat and continues, "We should send a replacement courier at the earliest. This time, we will ensure that they are well-armed and highly trained. As such, I propose a Kindred from this town. Someone we can trust. Someone reliable. Someone who can blend in. Someone like--"
The Prince interrupts him, "Like Dylan?"
Dylan looks up in surprise, "Aw, hell no! Fuck you, Arman! I got obligations here!" The Thin-Blood's claws unsheathe.
Arman raises his hands defensively, "It was merely a suggestion. Although, YOU aren't the only candidate."
Prince Lucas shakes his head, "Hmph. Not Dylan. His position is here in Plaintry. The other Thin-Bloods trust him. Who else did you have in mind? And please, no more ridiculous suggestions."
"Apologies, my liege. I was thinking--"
Eleanor raises her hand and offers up a suggestion, "How about a Tremere? It could be quite effective to have the powers of Blood Sorcery in such situations."
Arman nods, "Interesting idea, Eleanor. Pray tell, which of your Clan did you have in mind?"
Eleanor replies, "My Childe, Lucile. I believe her to be a suitable candidate. She doesn't attract much attention where she goes and her Thaumaturgy skills are par excellence. She has, after all, had a decade to perfect them."
Prince Lucas's eyes widen a bit, but he is nonetheless intrigued, "Lucile? Doesn't she spend a majority of her time in her cottage? And, from what I understand, she's a bit of a loner. How well will she fare as a courier?"
Eleanor explains, "For whatever task she has, she is dedicated and focused; I trust her. Besides, she is a fast learner and can be trained to fight in a matter of a few nights or so. Although, it is best to avoid open hostilities in the first place."
Ginny looks to the side and mutters, "Heh, this should be fun."
Prince Lucas slumps back into his seat and says, "Very well. Eleanor, train Lucile as quickly as possible. We cannot afford any delays. This 'Memphis Green' operation must be stopped. Immediately. As for transportation, one of my people could arrange a car. Alternatively, there are many vehicles at the police impound lot that we can use as well. Eunice, how long will it take to procure a vehicle that is...'clean'?"
Sheriff Eunice smirks and says, "Eh, not too long. 12 to 18 hours, give or take. However, proper documentation takes time."
The Prince nods, "Very well. I'll have someone from my Clan meet you at the impound lot in a few hours."
He turns to Eleanor, "How long do you think it will take to train Lucile for the job?"
Eleanor replies, "It depends on her. She can be a bit...how should I say it, eccentric. But with the right training and motivation, she can be quite useful. However, I would request that the Sheriff procure a firearm for her. Should she need it if things get...unpleasant."
Eunice slightly nods, "I got a little something in evidence lockup. I'll get the serial number filed off so it can't be traced back."
"Thank you, Sheriff Eunice."
The Malkavian coldly replies, "Don't mention it."
Prince Lucas nods, "Good. There is still the matter regarding this Maya woman. Have you had the chance to assess her? Is she a threat to the Masquerade or is she worthy of the Embrace?"
Eleanor nervously rubs her hands and says, "I have yet to make my decision. You will have it soon, I assure you."
Prince Lucas scoffs, "Well, decide quickly, Usurper. I have no tolerance for such delays. And if she is indeed a threat to our existence, then she must be dealt with. Immediately."
Eleanor, sensing his anger, says, "I understand, Prince Lucas. I shall go and speak with my Childe, Lucile, after our meeting is adjourned. We shall not fail you, my liege."
The Prince, still not quite relieved, says, "Very well, Eleanor. Then, there is the matter of Plaintry's mayoral candidate, Bernice. She could be of use to the Kindred, but I'm not entirely certain how."
Arman says, "Perhaps we could solve her parents' legal issues. That would...put her in our debt, so to speak. Moreover her parents have considerable connections to the military-intelligence community."
The Ventrue goes on, "I believe Ginny here has connections to the legal world."
Ginny eyes Arman and nods her head, "I got people, but there's a price."
Prince Lucas, with his face contorted into a scowl, replies, "You shall be rewarded in due time, Ginny. We will discuss the details later. For now, we must focus on 2 things. Firstly, finding a replacement courier; Eleanor's Childe, Lucile, could be a good fit. Secondly, finding and stopping these MIB agents before they discover us. As for helping the mayoral candidate, I will leave that to you, Arman. Ginny can help if she so wishes. Eleanor, we will need you to focus on training Lucile for the time being. Are we all in agreement?"
Eleanor, Arman, and Ginny nod in approval.
Dylan remains quiet and doesn't react.
Prince Lucas, noticing Dylan's silence, leans forward in his seat and says, "As for you, Dylan, I want you to continue monitoring that Vespire Inc. office. I sense that there is more to this operation than meets the eye. Do you understand?"
Dylan, looking down, nods and replies, "Yeah, yeah."
Prince Lucas turns his attention to Sheriff Eunice, "Sheriff, I need you to ensure that the remaining Kindred in town are on high alert. We cannot afford another Masquerade breach or a further loss of Kindred. Understood?"
Eunice solemnly nods, "It will be done."
With that, the meeting is adjourned. Everyone shakes hands, says goodbye and goes on their merry way.
Present Time...
Lucile sits there, eagerly listening to Eleanor recalling the meeting at the auditorium.
Lucile says, "Whoa! Didn't know I was popular around these parts, heh. If they want me to be the new courier, then so be it. I uh...won't let you down, Eleanor."
Eleanor sighs and shakes her head, "Childe, we cannot afford a repeat of the debacle with the previous courier. The circumstances surrounding his destruction are suspicious. Very suspicious. You MUST remain vigilant at all times."
Lucile asks, "So, when do I begin training?"
"At the soonest."
Lucile hesitates for a moment, "Uh...OK, cool." She wants to say something else (regarding Maya) but holds back.
Moreover, she's deeply concerned that Eleanor could forget the conversation if she brings up the subject.
"Eleanor, about Maya..."
Eleanor, slightly agitated, replies, "I thought we discussed this already?"
"We did, we did. But, I have feelings for her, Eleanor. Real strong ones. Can you please consider allowing me to Embrace her?"
Lucile pauses and tries to find the right words, "Um, what I'm trying to say is, well, she's a...lovely girl. And I think she would make a great Tremere."
Eleanor sternly replies, "No. But, if she is as 'lovely' as you say she is, then I will be the one to Embrace her. As for her use to the Tremere, the jury is still out on that, my dear. I will not have another rogue Tremere running about."
Lucile's face falls, "Wait, what? Another rogue Tremere? What are you talking about??! But I thought--"
"Do not question me, Childe. It is either that or the other Kindred will decide her fate. And THAT is most certainly NOT what you want," Eleanor forcefully states.
Lucile tries not to appear upset, but her tone of voice betrays her, "But, Eleanor, I love her! I won't let YOU or anyone harm her!"
Immediately, Lucile's eyes tear up and blood starts flowing down her cheeks. Her lips turn crimson.
"Childe, this is not a discussion. I expect a choice soon. Either I Embrace her or permit the other Kindred to eliminate her," Eleanor says, her voice unwavering.
Lucile thinks, "I can't put Maya in harm's way like this."
Lucile, now visibly crying, stands up, her eyes full of rage, and says, "Fine. Fine. Get...get--"
She wipes her eyes and says, "Get the Prince's permission for an Embrace. What about the Clan Elders and Regents?"
Eleanor curtly nods, "A wise choice. As for the Elders and Regents, I will seek their approval when the time is right. Our usual lines of communication via courier have been...disrupted as you know. Now, calm yourself, Lucile."
Lucile sits back down, her eyes still wet, and says, "OK. OK. I'll...calm down."
Eleanor holds Lucile's hand tightly and says, "For what it's worth, my dear, I am glad you found love. Kindred have a hard time forming connections. Ones that truly matter. Not ones out of convenience or opportunity. True, meaningful connections."
Lucile, her eyes still red, looks up at her Sire and smiles, "Thanks, Eleanor. It means a lot to hear that. I'm sorry about getting all riled up. I just don't want anything bad to happen to Maya because of me, you, or any other Kindred."
Eleanor reassures her, "Once she is of the Pyramid, no harm will come upon her."
Lucile's eyes go wide, "Before you Embrace her, please, lemme just ask her why she's so obsessed with vampires. I wanna make sure that she doesn't...well...doesn't hate our kind. Gimme another night, please."
Eleanor nods, "As you wish. Another night, no more no less."
Lucile stands up, hugs her Sire, and says, "Thank you for everything. And sorry for the...well, the whole hysterical crying thing."
Eleanor smiles and strokes her Childe's hair, "It is no trouble at all, Lucile. Even after all these years, you're still new to our kind, and emotions can get the better of us. For better or worse, it is what keeps us Kindred in touch with our Humanity."
Lucile breaks the hug and says, "Thanks, Eleanor. Uh, guess I'll be seeing you tomorrow?"
Eleanor replies, "Indeed, Childe. It will also be prudent to begin your training. Perhaps begin with some light exercise?"
"Ah, heh, sure. Alright, I'll get on that. See you then."
Eleanor looks at the clock, "I must return to my Haven to attend to some other matters."
Lucile opens the door, and Eleanor exits.
Lucile says to herself, "Wow, you got quite a lot dropped on you. Courier for the Kindred, falling in love with a mortal, and maybe (hopefully) having that mortal become like you. Things are about to get pretty hectic around here. Other than that, what the hell is up with Eleanor forgetting stuff? I'm a bit concerned for her."
Just then, her phone's notification dings.
She looks down and sees a text from Maya.
"hey, just reached home. can't stop thinking about u"
Lucile smiles, blushes, and replies: "same. was about to text you, but u beat me to it"
She continues tapping away on the phone: "So, I know it's L8, but I wanted to ask if u were free to drop by my place 2moro. Maybe I could make you something nice, we watch a movie or something. Or, IDK, go out for a drive around town."
After a few seconds, Lucile's phone vibrates again.
"Sure! I would looooooooooove that, lol."
The text is followed by a winking emoji and a heart.
Lucile laughs to herself and says, "God, I love her!"
Maya sends another text: "Is 7 PM good?"
Lucile responds with a thumbs-up emoji.
After a few minutes, she sends a follow-up text: "goodnite. Luv u, sweetie. cya 2moro."
Maya replies with a stream of heart, lip, and kissing emojis.
Lucile sets her phone aside, flops onto her sofa, and thinks to herself, "Damn, what a night."
Meanwhile...
Ginny's house is a two-story Victorian-era building located in a mostly secluded (but rather well-off) area.
The windows are covered with thick curtains, and there are no electronic devices visible from the outside. Inside, the furniture is mostly antique, and the walls are decorated with old paintings and relics from a bygone era.
Ginny is sitting at her desk, writing and shuffling papers around when she hears a knock at the door. Across her, sits Simon, another Lasombra.
He's sitting, one leg crossed over the other, staring at the Ginny. He's in his early-30s, wearing a black suit, a button-down gray shirt, and a matching fedora. His mutton chops are neatly trimmed, and his eyes are deep blue. He speaks in a smooth voice, "Expecting any visitors, Ginny?"
Ginny replies, "Yeah, someone who's proven quite...useful to our plans for this town. I think you'll like him."
Simon leans back into his seat and stares to the side, "We shall see. Just remember where your loyalties lie, Ginny."
Ginny sighs and stands up, "I know, Simon. I know."
Simon continues looking away and says, "Good."
Arman knocks on the door and is immediately let in.
As he enters, Ginny asks, "So, everything going well, then?"
Arman, his face showing some uncertainty, replies, "As well as one would expect, my dear. The courier? Your handiwork, I assume?"
Ginny raises an eyebrow, "You seem displeased, Arman."
Arman looks down at the floor, "Displeased? No, no. Not at all. Although, you could have been a bit...more subtle about it."
Ginny responds, a hint of annoyance in her voice, "What was done was done, Arman."
Arman, trying to regain his composure, "Fair enough, but we must tread with caution. Prince Lucas might be a Wanderer, but he is no fool."
Ginny says nothing and leads Arman to where Simon is sitting. He's still staring into the void, contemplating.
Ginny continues, "Arman, this is Simon. He's one of ours. Simon, this is Arman."
Simon still stares into the void, "Charmed." He waves his hand and beckons Arman to take a seat.
Simon turns to Ginny and asks, "This is the Ventrue you speak of?"
Ginny nods and says, "Yep."
Simon turns his attention to Arman, "And we can trust you, Power Monger? Hmm? Tell me, who is it you serve?"
Arman, calm as ever, says, "I serve only my Clan, Simon. I assure you of that."
Simon laughs, "That is what they all say until their fangs are removed from their jaws and their bodies turned to dust."
Arman clenches his jaw and stares daggers at Simon, "I will not be tested by someone who not so long ago was a Sabbat lapdog!"
Simon breaks a smirk, "Tsk tsk. Come now, the past is the past. Let bygones be, as they say, bygones."
Ginny laughs, "Aw, I think you 2 are gonna get along just fine."
Arman turns to Ginny and says, "Hmph. But, I will not be made a fool of. I've earned my place among the Kindred, and I won't let ANYONE take that away from me."
Ginny calmly replies, "As have I, big guy. As have I."
Simon interjects, "Your Clan has been blessed with great power, Arman. You would be wise not to squander it. The rest of the Kindred in this town are weak and foolish. However, they could be useful pawns in our grand scheme."
Ginny nods, "Yep."
Arman narrows his eyes, "And what do you mean by 'our' grand scheme, Turncoat?"
Simon laughs and says nothing.
Ginny rolls her eyes, "Relax, playboy. We can trust him. He knows all about our little plan."
Arman, clearly agitated by Simon's smugness, sighs, "Very well."
Simon continues, his voice smooth as silk, "Oh, I know everything you 2 have been planning. I have no issue with it. It could be a very beneficial arrangement for our Clans, provided all goes...smoothly."
Arman, his voice still dripping with disdain, "And yet I detect a hint of doubt in your voice."
Simon, not breaking his smirk, "Perhaps. Perhaps. Only time will tell. Riddle me this, Arman. After you've driven away or hunted down every Thin-Blood in town, who do you plan on replacing them with? Hmm? The Nosferatu are no longer an option as we burnt that bridge not so long ago."
Arman shrugs, "As me and Ginny agreed on, of course, we shall offer the Clan of the Moon as an alternative. They may be a bit...unhinged, but they will, I believe, fit right in."
Simon turns his attention to Ginny, "May I suggest a slight alteration to the plan? Perhaps we could make a few 'changes' here and there. Ones that would benefit us."
Ginny curiously asks, "What do you have in mind?"
Simon leans back into his chair and says, "Firstly, I suggest that we reach out to the Tzimisce Clan. They are a powerful ally to have."
Ginny thinks for a moment, "I suppose we could make some accommodations. Arman?"
Arman sneers, "Flesh-shapers. I will NOT have those flesh-twisted monsters anywhere near me."
Simon smiles, "You won't have to, Arman. I hear they're not quite as hideous as the Sewer Rats these nights. A lot of them are, funnily enough, doctors and plastic surgeons."
Arman groans, "Fine. We shall reach out to them. But, they must be made aware that if they step out of line, then we will do to them things that not even their best weavers could fix."
Simon concedes, "A reasonable request."
Ginny asks, "So, Arman, you mentioned that the solution to our Thin-Blood problems would be arriving in town. Care to, y'know, elaborate?"
Arman raises his hand to stop her, "In time, dear. In time. After all, it is better to show than tell."
Simon looks away from Ginny and Arman and back into the void once again, "Be well aware that the Tremere are another force to be reckoned with. They will, without a doubt, move against us. As such, it'd be wise to watch out for their actions."
Ginny replies, "We'll keep an eye on them."
Arman chimes in, "That we certainly will." He then asks her, "Ginny, out of sheer curiosity, how did you do it? Get rid of the courier, I mean."
Simon gives her a glance before looking back to the void.
Ginny shrugs, "A Caitiff is no match for me, Arman. From what I understand, the geniuses at the Ivory Tower use a lotta Caitiff to move shit around for them."
Simon says, "Ah, yes. So I've heard. The Caitiff are accused of some or the other 'crime' and given the opportunity to pay off their debts by becoming a courier for The Ivory Tower. It's a perfect plan. Mostly."
Ginny nods, "Yep. A bit cliché but whatever. So, they're more expendable than Thin-Bloods or Nosferatu."
She goes on, "Anyways, scaring the asshole was easy. I had one of my people use a bit of their Oblivion on the bastard. Scared him shitless! Ha ha!"
It almost sounds like she's enjoying this.
Simon clears his throat.
Ginny shrugs and continues, "Right, right. We don't really like...discussing our gifts with non-Lasombra, I suppose."
"But the rest was easy."
30 or so minutes before the meeting at the auditorium...
The sun is setting on a blue and white sky, and the air is damp, but smells fresh. It's late and there's a light mist in the air. The sound of crickets and frogs can be heard in the distance.
A man with disheveled hair is running, looking over his shoulder every few seconds. He's wearing a flannel shirt, cargo pants, and work boots. A pair of black headphones is on his neck, and he's carrying a briefcase in his hands.
His hands still shaking, he pulls out a flip phone and frantically dials a number.
"Please, please, pick up. Please. Pick up. Pick up."
After 3 rings, a voice is heard from the other side, "Hello?"
The man, relieved to hear the voice, says, "FRANK! It's me, Max. The...the courier. Look, I got...I got no time to explain. I need help, man, like right now. You gotta send some backup. I'm at uh...fuck. Yeah, uh...on 5th Street. A couple of blocks north of some old bowling alley. Please, hurry! It's getting...it's getting darker--"
The phone stops working, and the screen goes black. The man flips it around and bangs it a few times, "Aw, come on. Come on. Please work. Please. Shit!" He throws it away and keeps running, looking around in terror.
He continues, his voice cracking, "It's not worth it...it's not. I gotta get rid of this shit. I don't even care anymore!"
He grasps the briefcase till he happens upon a pair of garbage dumpsters overflowing with waste, flies buzzing around, and smelling like rotten meat. At this point in time, Max isn't bothered by the stench.
He quickly puts the briefcase behind the dumpsters and sits down, covering his ears and closing his eyes.
Max stays like that for a minute before opening his eyes and wiping away tears of blood. He stands up and says, "Fuck this. I'm done. Fuck the Camarilla. I'm just a...I'm just a...never mind."
He puts some distance between himself and the dumpsters till he happens upon an abandoned building. Sensing that he's still being followed, he musters up the strength to run up the stairs as fast as he can.
He continues running inside a nearby room, making sure that no one was around before locking the door and peeking through the broken window to see if he was being followed.
Once he's sure he sees nothing, Max goes down on all fours and sighs, "I just...I just want it all to end."
Ginny slowly makes her way up to building where Max thinks he's safe. She ducks and starts sniffing the air. She hears the movement of footsteps on the top floor.
Once there, she uses her Potence Discipline to kick the door down with maximum force.
Ginny strides into the room, smiling at her prey and saying, "I believe you got something for me."
Max is speechless as he's frozen to the spot, his eyes wide and his skin paler than usual. Nevertheless, he bares his claws and fangs, ready to fight to the bitter end.
Ginny slowly shakes her head and says, "Don't make this hard on yourself, kiddo."
Max trembles, and his eyes dart around the room, looking for a way out, "I...I only heard rumors about you people--"
Ginny cuts him off, "Save it, asshole."
Without thought, the Caitiff lunges at Ginny, screaming at the top of his lungs, "Die, bitch! Die!"
Ginny channels the power of her Blood and (yet again) makes use of her Oblivion Discipline to engulf Max in shadows so thick and dark that it looks like a black hole within a black hole.
The Caitiff screams as his vision darkens and his ears deafen, "No, no! Aaaaaah. AAAAAH!" He wildly flails his arms around, violently scratching himself in the process. He then collapses on the floor.
His eyes are still wide open and his breathing is erratic.
Ginny, smiling, kneels down next to the body, "Not bad, kiddo. An A-minus for effort. Heh heh." She sees a wooden table in the corner of the room and breaks off a leg with ease. From that broken leg, she fashions a crude stake.
She drives her fingers through the courier's disheveled hair and slams the stake into the middle of his chest.
Lastly, she violently twists his neck a full 180 degrees and tears his head off with all her vampiric stregth. The sound of bones cracking and flesh being torn is clearly heard.
With that, the courier slowly starts to turn to dust, the natural biological processes of age and sickness suspended by the Embrace now come back to ravage his corpse and take what is rightfully theirs.
Ginny lets the corpse slowly fade away and walks away to her car, smiling all the way, her footsteps echoing in the vast darkness. Thousands of tiny whispers can be heard by her ears.
Whispers of the long dead and forgotten. Of the abhorred and the damned. Of the damned and the lost. They are but a whisper. An Abyssal whisper she is all too familiar with.
She starts her car and drives away into the evening. As she's driving away, a group of motorbike riders appear out of nowhere, lights off, and gun their engines to high, heading in the direction she was just leaving.
They brush past her car. Ginny does not notice them. Neither do they. Anyways, she doesn't need to bother too much.
What's done is done.
Arman slowly claps his hands, "My my my, Ginny. Marvelous! However, I never took you as the one for this sort of work. To think that you'd hunt down, stake and destroy a Kindred...a Kindred! Most impressive. Do tell me, do you have any more tricks up your sleeve?"
Ginny nods, "Heh, yep. But I ain't in the sharing mood, Arman. Nothing personal, of course."
Simon speaks up, "I must be heading out now. I will leave you 2 to chat. However, I'd like a word with Ginny first. Excuse us, Blue Blood."
Arman nods as Ginny and Simon get up and head towards the door.
Once at the front door, she asks, "So, what do you want, Simon?"
Simon replies, his voice still as smooth as silk, "I need to feed. More so than usual. The Beckoning. It's...it's taking more of a toll on me each passing night."
Ginny puts a hand on her chin and says, "Hmph. You don't have a usual place? Or a usual Blood Doll?"
Simon simply replies, "I've had to...let her go."
Ginny simply says, "Ah."
Simon continues, "Perhaps I can feed on your usual...Kine?"
Ginny furrows her brows and grabs a notepad and pencil, "Yeah, sure. Here's her address. Her name's Maya, heh. Her blood's got that spicy kick to it, heh heh."
Simon waves his hand dismissively, "I don't care what her name is. Just that her blood will satisfy me."
Ginny interrupts him, "Oh, and careful. Some of the others got a bit of a soft spot for her."
Simon says nothing as he walks away, his figure merging with the darkness.
Ginny goes back inside, shuts the door, makes her way to her desk, and sits down.
Arman, who is simply admiring the paintings in Ginny's office, says, "I am quite impressed by your skills, Ginny. But, you didn't find what he was carrying? A tad bit disappointing, but it was an otherwise superb job. Well done. Very well done indeed!"
Ginny raises an eyebrow, "Does it even matter what he was carrying? Isn't it just some documents and written correspondence?"
Arman replies, "Perhaps so, but we still need to be prudent and vigilant in our dealings. If Lucas, or for that matter, any other Kindred discovers the contents of that courier's package first, we might find ourselves on the receiving end of a stake or 2, and that would simply not be pleasant."
Ginny emphasizes, "'Might', Arman. 'Might'. So far, we've been doing what we've been doing and everyone else has been too busy kissing the Prince's ass to notice."
Arman raises his hands to stop her, "But still, Ginny. Still."
Ginny dismissively replies, "Sure, whatever, Arman."
Arman continues, "It is unwise to be so...reckless. Especially when we are so close to achieving our goals."
Ginny sighs, "Yeah, I guess you're right. But still, if Lucas is too dumb to notice, then let him stay that way. If that courier was carrying something, I'm sure we'll hear about it."
Arman's interest is immediately piqued by a painting behind Ginny.
He springs up from his seat (like a jack in the box) to get a closer look, "This is an original work, yes? The painting style is quite reminiscent of Matisse, I believe? Ginny, is this a Matisse?"
Ginny indifferently replies, "Hell if I know. It came with the house, heh heh. Why?"
Arman ignores Ginny and continues looking at the painting, "Oh, this is simply too majestic. I am prepared to buy it from you. Name your price, Ginny."
Ginny laughs and replies, "Ha! This drawing?! Outta curiosity, what do they often go for?"
Arman quickly replies, "$40,000 or thereabouts, but, this, this is quite special. Perhaps, $80,000?"
Ginny raises her eyebrow again, "Seriously? I gotta get in on this scheme!"
Arman snaps back, "It is no scheme! It is...it is a taste...for the finer and rarefied things of life, or Unlife rather."
Ginny sighs and chuckles to herself, "Whatever you say."
Arman goes on, "So, would you prefer check or cash for this? I know an electronic wire transfer is out of the question, given your...clumsiness with modern technology."
Ginny leans back and replies, "Cash. Cold, hard cash."
Arman's face lights up, "Splendid! I shall have Rolf procure the cash in a day or so."
Ginny continues, "So, what are you gonna do with it?"
Arman's voice takes a solemn turn, "Ah, you know, it's hard to explain such things to someone lacking in understanding of the finer things, dear. I'm sure you understand."
Ginny leans back into her chair, "OK."
Arman hesitates, "It is something I'm quite obsessed about, actually. Ever since my Embrace all those years ago. You see, the...loftier things in Unlife, well, that is to say, it has given me some...pause for thought and deep contemplation."
He stares into the void as Simon did earlier and says, "Do you think there is such a thing as true immortality, Ginny?"
Ginny is puzzled and doesn't know how to respond, "Um...what do you mean? We Kindred do live forever. Heh, one of the perks."
Arman waves his hands, "Ah, yes. Of course, of course. But, you must think. Really THINK. I mean, we live forever. But, our works? Our legacy? Our name? Our title? Does any of it stay the same forever?"
He goes on, "Surely, it's inevitable that they shall change. Over time. No one remembers us as we truly are. No one can, of course. In any event, somebody has already started erasing us from history."
"Have you seen any works from Kindred artists, Ginny? From the Middle Ages and such? From the time of the First Inquisition?"
Ginny leans forward and shrugs, "Maybe? Some Toreador paintings. Why? What's up with them?"
Arman sneers and then gestures to the Matisse, "Rubbish. All rubbish. But this, this is...this is art! Art that is immortal! A permanent fixture, an enduring work. But, art from Kindred is trash, and THAT is not even an insult."
Ginny smiles and and sarcastically remarks, "Wow. That's pretty deep. Still, I like cash a lot more. In 20s, please. And toss a couple of Franklins in there for good measure."
Arman takes no notice and continues, "And when our Clans, or, if we are unlucky, even our name are all erased from existence? Will WE still be around, or will we simply become the ashes carried away by the gusts of history?"
Ginny sternly says, "I don't plan on going anywhere, Mr. Deep. Seriously, you talk too much, Arman."
Arman retorts, "And you barely talk at all. You know, I almost feel sorry for your Clan. Your ineptitude with modern technology means you are missing out on many of life's pleasures."
Ginny rolls her eyes, "It's not an 'ineptitude', Arman. It's our Clan's Curse. That and not being able to see ourselves in mirrors."
Arman shakes his head in disappointment, "Truly sad."
Ginny interrupts, "Eh, don't pity me. I was Embraced all the way back in the 80s. I'm an analogue gal through and through. Heh heh. It's how we operate best."
Arman interjects, "All that aside, you know, Ginny. I am pleased to have you as an ally on nights like these. You are a testament to the might of your Clan, and, in spite of all that has happened between our Clans in the past few decades, I'm glad to have your assistance, your keen intellect and, most importantly, your cunning. After all, without the Lasombra, where would the Ventrue be in modern times?"
Ginny grins and says, "On the streets."
Arman simply smiles, "Hear hear. To a greater Ventrue-Lasombra alliance, my dear!"
Ginny raises her imaginary glass, "A Lasombra-Ventrue alliance, you mean."
Arman smirks, "Yes. Yes. Of course."
After some small talk and arrangements for the procuring of the painting, Arman heads out. Ginny gets up and turns around to look at the painting he was eyeing just before.
"Eh, I don't see what's so special about it. It's 80 grand in my pockets. Whatever gets his rocks off, heh heh."
Maya is home and is watching TV, struggling to stay awake, her mind wandering to Lucile. She can't stop thinking about her, the way her brown hair moves from side to side, how she smells, how she talks and walks, everything.
Maya looks at her phone and thinks about sending Lucile another text but decides against it.
She trudges towards her bedroom and flops down on her bed. Before long, she dozes off and her breathing evens out. Just as she's about to fall into a deeper slumber, light footsteps are heard.
A few moments later, the window slides up and the silhouette of Simon can be seen in the darkness, his deep blue eyes reflecting in the moonlight, staring intently at Maya's sleeping form. He's silent, as usual.
His figure is that of a shadow.
He moves like one, too. Simon creeps towards Maya and crouches at her feet. Maya sleeps with a light blanket thrown over herself, but it doesn't bother him. The smell of her blood, that's all that matters to the Elder vampire right now.
He grabs the bottom edge of her blanket and carefully lifts it, exposing her legs. She is wearing pink panties with red hearts on them, but even that does not concern Simon.
He unveils his sharp fangs and leans in for the bite. Deep in sleep, Maya feels absolutely nothing. It is as if the creature is kissing her ankle with great passion. Or desperation, rather.
Once Simon has had his fill, he licks the wound clean, lowers her blanket back in its place, gets up, and silently climbs out of her window.
Once again, he merges with the darkness and is on his way to wherever he must go.
Annette, meanwhile, is tossing and turning in her bed; she's having some trouble sleeping. She's undoubtedly nervous about the interview in a few hours' time. The thought of messing up haunts her mind.
If she messes up, she could be out of a job and Nimbus would likely be closer to shutting down, as if they weren't already on the brink.
The stress has been getting to her these past few hours. The lights from passing cars make their way through the thin blinds. Annette takes a deep breath, sighs, and puts a hand on her forehead, "Damnit. I should've taken something to sleep better!"
She continues tossing and turning till the stress gets the best of her.
However, one thought calms her nerves: Bernice. Who also happens to be the person she's interviewing!
Her face brightens as she imagines her standing there, next to her bed, wearing nothing (or close to nothing). She thinks about kissing Bernice on the cheek earlier.
A wide smile crosses Annette's face and she settles back down and slowly starts falling into a peaceful, blissful, slumber.
At that exact same time, a phone call is going on somewhere far away.
"Konbanwa (JP: Good evening), Mr. Arman. Yes, the 'packages' shall be arriving shortly. Yes. Understood, Mr. Arman."
Arman replies, "Excellent, Mr. Haru. The Ventrue of the United States and The Ventrue of Japan, united at last, and by a common cause. More or less."
Mr. Haru's voice comes from the other end, "Yes, indeed. Be warned though, they are fierce warriors and are not to be trifled with."
Arman continues, "I understand, Mr. Haru. I know of their ferociousness all too well. Oyasumi Nasai (JP: Good night), Mr. Haru."
"Oyasumi Nasai (JP: Good night), Mr. Arman. And good luck."
Chapter 5: Interview
The sun rises over the sleepy town of Plaintry, and the birds begin to chirp. A gentle breeze flows through the streets, and the smell of freshly baked bread can be detected in the air.
The sound of engines can be heard as the local shops open for business, and the people (mortals, mainly) start their day. Whilst Kindred begin their day-sleep.
It is a beautiful sight, and it makes the citizens of Plaintry feel alive and blissfully unaware of the the world of darkness lurking just beyond their reach.
Annette springs up from her bed, her hair messy and her eyes still drowsy. She yawns and stretches her arms and legs. She looks at her alarm clock and sighs in relief, "Oh, good. Thought I was late."
She gets up, shuffles her way to the bathroom, and splashes her face with cold water. She brushes her teeth, and turns on the hot water for her shower.
She undresses and steps into the shower, letting the hot water run down her nude body.
She takes her time, washing her hair with shampoo and scrubbing her body with soap. Once she's done, she turns off the water and steps out.
She blow-dries her hair and applies a bit more makeup than usual. She looks at herself in the mirror and takes a deep breath, "Here we go."
First, she applies a bit of foundation and then some concealer to even out her skin.
She looks at her face in the mirror, admiring herself for a while.
She smiles at herself, "Bea-uti-ful!"
Next up is the eye shadow. She applies a thick line of eyeliner and a bit of mascara. She takes a bit of a deeper tone in the eyeshadow, making them a bit smoky.
"Ooh, I look so...so professional! Haha!"
Last but not least, she applies a light coat of lipstick. It's a shade of mauve pink. Seductive.
She picks out a formal white shirt, a black blazer, and a pair of light blue pants for the day and slips into them.
Annette checks her watch and realizes that she has to get a move on or she'll be late for the interview with Bernice. She quickly puts on a pair of black high heels and rushes out of her house.
She decides to grab breakfast at one of the many diners along the way, hoping that she can eat something quick before the interview.
A few minutes later, she's sitting in a diner, sipping a cup of coffee and eating a piece of toast. The diner is busy and there are lots of people at the counter, chatting and enjoying the coffee.
Annette smiles to herself, "Soon, everyone's gonna know my name."
Her smile fades, and she thinks, "If I don't fuck it up, that is."
After finishing her meal, she heads out to her car and heads in the direction of the Nimbus office.
The Nimbus office is still as drab as ever, but now there are several empty desks; Annette's early (earlier than usual, it seems).
Annette walks in and greets Edgar, her boss.
"Hey, Edgar!"
He's wearing something a bit more formal than his usual flannel shirts.
"Annette!" he jovially replies.
He beckons her to come to his office.
Edgar smiles and says, "Are you ready for today?"
"Oh, absolutely!"
Edgar's office is as drab as the rest of the building. On his desk are a few folders and an open laptop.
Edgar goes on, "Great! We just have to finalize the details, and then you can get started. This could be what Nimbus needs. Our saving grace!"
He picks up a file from his desk and passes it to her.
She takes the file and thinks to herself, "Or our swan song."
Annette smiles and says, "Sure thing, boss."
Edgar turns to his laptop and does some typing and clicking.
After a while, he says, "O-K! It's all set up. All you have to do is give this a go."
He stands up, shakes her hand, and reminds her, "Just do your best. Nimbus has a lot of faith in you."
Annette smiles and says, "Thanks, Edgar. You know, I just...I just want this to work. For me...for Nimbus."
Edgar winks at her and reassures her, "We all do."
Annette nods and says, "Well, wish me luck."
Edgar looks at his watch and says, "Good luck!"
Annette makes her way to Bernice's campaign HQ, which is on the other side of town. She takes a deep breath as she gets closer, and her hands start to shake.
She clutches the steering wheel tighter and tries to calm herself down. However, the mere thought of Bernice brings a certain calm upon Annette.
It's a medium-sized office area with a few desks and a couple of filing cabinets. There's a coffee maker in the corner and a few posters on the wall.
"Bernice 4 Plaintry" with big bold letters.
"Vote Bernice" in good ol' red, white, and blue!
"Bernice!" with a picture of her smiling and giving a thumbs up.
Annette smiles and thinks to herself, "She's so confident. So sure of herself. So...hot."
She looks at her watch and realizes she's a bit early. Regardless, Annette can't wait to see the mayoral candidate.
Bernice's office is at the end of the hall, and she's sitting at her desk, looking at some papers.
She's wearing a simple blue dress with a white collar and a pair of black flats. Her black hair is tied in a bun, and she's got a pair of glasses on her nose.
Annette knocks on the door, and Bernice looks up. She smiles and says, "Hello, Annette! Come on in, please."
Annette enters the room, and the air feels different. She can't quite put her finger on it, but she knows something's changed.
Second thoughts? Fear? Uncertainty? Doubt?
Annette breaths deeply and dispels any negative thoughts from her mind.
She sits down in front of Bernice's desk and smiles, "Hey, Bernice! So, uh, how are you?"
Bernice leans back in her chair, "I'm doing great. So, are you ready to get this interview started?" A hint of seductiveness can be detected in her voice.
Annette simply nods and says, "Of course." She pulls out a recorder- the handy type that sits nicely on tables.
She turns it on and says, "This is Annette from Nimbus. Here to interview mayoral candidate for the town of Plaintry, Bernice."
Annette proceeds, "Good morning, Bernice. So, what are your thoughts about the current state of affairs in Plaintry?"
Bernice looks up, her eyes bright and her face serious, "My thoughts? Well, I think it's time for a change."
Annette looks her interview subject in the eye and bluntly asks, "What kind of a change?"
Bernice replies, "The kind of change a town like Plaintry needs. We need a Mayor who's not afraid to make tough decisions."
Annette looks at Bernice, "And you're gonna be the one who makes those tough decisions? You're not just running for Mayor for laughs, are you?"
Bernice pauses and stares at Annette. She leans forward and says, "I'm 100% serious about winning this election. I'm firing on all cylinders right now. I know what I'm doing."
She goes on, "I've done this before, you know. I've got a lot of experience."
Annette nods, "I'm sure you do, but what's your strategy? What are you gonna do for us as Mayor? You're running on a platform that includes bringing in outside investments to stimulate the local economy. I'm sure that there are those who might be a little worried about your intentions for the place."
Bernice nods and looks down at her notes, "I see."
She then says, "I'm gonna do everything I can to ensure that Plaintry stays the town it is- the town of prosperity and family."
She goes on, "I'm a woman of my word. I'm not going to cut any corners or take shortcuts. But, make no mistake, I WILL do what I have to do to protect the people I love. The people who raised me, who taught me. This town is my home, and I WILL fight for it to the very end."
Annette looks into the distance, her eyes sparkling. She notices that Bernice is looking at her, waiting for an answer.
Annette looks back to Bernice, "Huh? Oh, I'm sorry. Uh, yes. So, that's all about you as the Mayor, but tell us a bit more about Bernice the person. What are you like?"
Bernice laughs, "Well, I'm the kind of person who's always down for a good laugh, a good drink, and a good time."
She smiles and goes on, "I've had some struggles, yes, but I've managed to overcome them all. I'm an open book. My past doesn't define me. It's what I do in the here-and-now that counts. I see myself as an inspiration, a role model, a leader, and most importantly, a friend."
Annette smiles, "I like your positive attitude. What would you say your greatest strength is?"
Bernice thinks for a moment and says, "I'd say my ability to reassure people, to let them know they can trust me. And my ability to look people in the eye and tell them the truth."
Annette looks at her notepad, "You certainly seem to be honest and trustworthy."
Bernice laughs, "Thank you! I appreciate that."
Annette then asks, "What do you do to unwind after a long day of speeches, meetings, debates, etcetera?"
Bernice thinks, "Well, I enjoy reading a good book, watching a good movie, or just spending time with my close friends."
Annette writes down some notes, "Interesting..."
Bernice smiles, "And, of course, I always make time for my family."
Annette nods, "Yes, of course. What would you say your biggest weakness is?"
Bernice looks down at the ground, "I...I struggle with a lot of things. It's only been 2 years since I've sworn off cigarettes...and sometimes even when we go through withdrawals, it's hard to keep up with the program. You know, I'll slip up every now and then, but I'm really trying my best."
Annette looks at Bernice, her eyes full of sympathy, "We all have our weaknesses, Bernice. It's only human."
Bernice sighs, "Yeah, I guess you're right."
Annette continues, "What are your thoughts on the current political climate? Do you think it's right for Plaintry?"
Bernice pauses and then says, "Well, I don't know. It's a tough question to answer. I think there are a lot of good things about the current political climate, but I also think there are a lot of...not so good things about it as well. You'll excuse me if I won't go into the specifics, but I'm sure you're aware of them."
Annette respectfully nods, "I see. Well, I'm sure people in town will have their own views about the matter."
Bernice laughs, "Yes, that they certainly will. Haha!"
The interview goes on for another 15 or so minutes. It ping-pongs between questions about Bernice's personal life, her career, and her platform. A few cute anecdotes are thrown into the mix as well.
Annette looks at her watch and realizes that it's time. Before she grabs her recorder, she says, "Thank you for your time, Bernice."
Bernice smiles, "No problem. Thank you for coming! And remember, vote Bernice!"
Annette turns off the recorder. She slumps back into her seat and sighs.
Bernice laughs, "That was actually quite fun! You're pretty good at this, Annette!"
Annette cracks a quick smile, "Thank you. I just...I don't want to let you or Nimbus down. It's important to me."
Bernice looks at Annette with a knowing gaze.
She gets up from her desk, walks over to Annette, and puts her hands on her shoulders, "Annette, I need you to relax. Breathe. Take it easy. I know how much this means to you, but you have to remember that you have a life outside of work. It's important to take some time for yourself once in a while."
Annette sighs, "Yeah, I know. But, it's just...it's hard."
Bernice invites Annette to sit on the sofa in the corner, "Do you remember what I told you back at The Gastronova?"
Annette scratches her head, "Oh, our lunch da--Sorry, I mean meeting. Yeah, something about opportunities being rare and how I should grab them and ride them into the sunset? Yeah, uh...why?"
Bernice looks at Annette, her eyes full of warmth, "You've got to seize the day. If you want something, then you've got to go after it. No matter the cost. Even if it means taking a big risk."
Annette sighs, "Oh, wow. I'm...I'm not that much of a risk taker, y'know."
Bernice leans in closer to Annette, "Tell me, Annette, do you really want to climb up the ladder? Or do you just want to keep sitting here, going through the motions and letting life pass you by?"
Annette is taken aback by Bernice's direct question. She looks at the ground, trying to find the right words.
"Well, I mean...I do want to climb the ladder. I guess I'm just scared of falling."
Bernice places her hand on Annette's cheek, "Then take my advice: Grab the rungs of that ladder with both hands and hold on tight. Don't let go. Don't. Let. Go."
Annette smiles and blushes, "I...I don't know what to say. J--Just grab on."
Bernice's lips curve into a smile as well, "Just grab on."
Annette takes a deep breath and looks Bernice in the eye, "Alright, Bernice."
Bernice looks into Annette's eyes as well, "You can do it."
Annette blushes and smiles, "Uh, OK."
Annette attempts to lean in for a kiss, but Bernice gently pushes her away.
Bernice laughs, "You're learning. Good. Not now. Remember that exclusive 'behind-the-scene' I promised you? My place. Tonight. 9 PM. You know my address. Almost everyone in this town does, heh."
Bernice gently kisses Annette on the lips and whispers into her ear, "I'll see you tonight."
Annette blushes and smiles, "Absolutely!"
Bernice gives Annette a quick hug before they part ways.
The mayoral candidate gets up and walks back to her desk, "Now, get going. I'm counting on you to help win this election, Annette."
Annette nods, "I'll do my best. Thank you again for your time, Bernice. Have a good day!"
Bernice winks, "You too!"
Annette waves goodbye as she walks out the door, closing it behind her. Her heart is beating rapidly in her chest. Her face is red, and her body is tingling with excitement.
Annette drives back to work in a daze, not entirely sure of what just happened.
She parks her car and sits there for a few minutes, staring off into space.
A few hours later, Annette is sitting in her office, typing up the interview with Bernice.
Her fingers are flying across the MacBook keyboard. The words seem to be flowing from her fingertips. She smiles as she types, feeling good about what she's written so far.
As she finishes up the draft of the article, she notices that she has a text message from Bernice.
The message reads: "I can't wait for tonight," followed by some very suggestive emojis.
Annette's eyes go wide, and her mouth opens in surprise. She feels a rush of excitement flow through her body. Her cheeks flush pink, and she bites her lower lip.
She looks around the office and realizes that not many people showed up for work today; not even her best friend, Maya.
Concerned, she sends a quick text to Maya: "Hey. Finished the interview. Went rly gr8. So excited. BTW, where are u?"
Meanwhile, at Maya's place...
The alarm clock stopped ringing hours ago. Maya is dazed, her head going round like a merry-go-round. She feels heavy. Her leg hurts. The phone vibrates, but Maya doesn't have the energy to wake up.
"Ugh...so...tired."
Maya's head throbs and pounds in pain as she tries to get up from her bed. She manages to get up a bit, but her head is still spinning, and she feels weak. Her vision is blurred and her hearing is muffled.
She tries to stand up straight, but her legs feel like lead.
She stumbles back onto bed, deciding not to risk getting up and then falling down on the floor.
She rolls over to her side and grabs her phone. She sees Annette's text and sighs. She puts the phone back on the nightstand and closes her eyes again.
"Ugh...dizzy...so..."
Annette receives a reply from Maya: "Sry. SO sIcK txt L8r."
Annette remarks to herself, "Sheesh, hope it's nothing too serious."
She then replies: "OK. Get well soon. Byeeee!"
Maya's phone vibrates, but she's drifting off to sleep again. She doesn't respond.
The hours go by, and Maya is still in bed, sleeping heavily. Her room is dark and quiet. Her breathing is slow and even.
The only sounds are the occasional car passing by outside and the faint hum of the TV- even though she turned that off last night.
Back at Nimbus...
Annette has just finished proofreading the article she wrote on Bernice. She smiles to herself and heads over to see Edgar, her boss.
Nimbus lacks the funds for a website or a digital magazine.
People in this town are old-fashioned in that way, so it's gonna take time and a lot of persuasion before they change their minds about a lotta of things.
"Hey, boss!" she calls out with enthusiasm.
Edgar looks up from his desk, "Hey, Annette! How did the interview go?
Annette smiles and says, "It was awesome! Bernice is great!"
Edgar nods, "Ah, glad to hear it. I'll start getting the article published ASAP. I've got a good feeling about this."
Annette replies, "Oh, yeah, me too! We should be able to get a good amount of traffic from this. Right?"
Edgar smiles, "Absolutely. Also, this should be our 400th issue of Nimbus! How time flies, eh?"
How time flies. There's a glint of nostalgia in Annette's eye as she thinks about her younger self and all the times she worked her ass off here.
How many people have quit and given up over the years while she just kept on grinding, pushing, and believing?
She's glad that Edgar hasn't given up either, even when times were rough and he didn't have much money coming in. It's almost like Nimbus is a part of her life, her identity.
She wouldn't be 'Annette' without it, and she feels like a better version of herself.
A version of herself that's always striving to go up, not down. A version of herself that never gives up, that keeps going. She wouldn't be herself if she didn't.
Annette smiles and solemnly replies, "It sure does, Edgar. It sure does."
Annette leaves work with a big smile on her face. She feels a sense of pride and accomplishment. This is by far, the biggest accomplishment of her career, and it's only just beginning.
But with the high-highs come the low-lows as will soon be the case.
Annette checks her phone, and her smile fades a bit as she notices that Maya hasn't texted her back.
"Damn. I hope she's alright."
She sends another text: "Hope u r doing k, Maya. Want me to drive u to the clinic or smth????"
There is no reply.
"Maybe I'll go check on her. Maybe she's sick, but that doesn't explain why she hasn't been answering my texts. Something doesn't add up here..."
In a few minutes, Annette knocks on Maya's door. The bell doesn't appear to be working, so she tries knocking on the door again.
Nothing.
She pulls out her phone and calls Maya.
She can hear it ringing through the thin walls, but Maya doesn't answer.
Annette thinks to herself, "Shit! Wait, let's hope Maya still keeps a spare key under the mat. Damn, I hope she's OK. It's not like her to not text back..."
She kneels down to check under the mat, and sure enough, a spare key is there.
Annette says to herself, "God, I hope it's nothing too serious. I'd hate for anyt--"
She shakes her head, "Stop! She's fine. She's OK. Stop it! She's fine. Maya is a big girl. She can take care of herself."
She picks up the spare key and inserts it into the doorknob. She turns it to the left and opens the door.
Maya is a bit startled and mumbles, "Huh...who's...who's there..."
Her vision is blurry and her voice sounds tired. Her skin is cold and sweaty.
She looks weak and vulnerable. Her hair is messy and her face is pale.
Annette sees all of this as soon as she walks through the door and into Maya's bedroom. Her heart stops for a few seconds and then starts beating faster than usual.
Maya tries to get up but fails miserably, "Oh! Annette! Oh...what time is it? Your interv--"
Annette is still stunned, her mind running a mile a minute. Her eyes widen, "About time you went to the ER! What the hell's up, Maya? You look like crap. Are you OK? Have you been drinking?"
Maya sighs, "Yeah...ugh...no...I was fine yester...yesterday. So thirsty..."
Annette goes and gets a glass of water and some aspirin.
Annette sighs, "Alright, take this. It should help you a bit."
Maya struggles to sit up in bed, but she eventually succeeds. She takes the medicine and downs it in one gulp. She sighs with relief as she lays back down.
"Thanks. W...what's going on, Annette? You alri...ght?"
Annette tells her about the interview with Bernice and that Nimbus has a shot at success again.
Or might have.
"I can't believe it! This is a...a big break for you! I'm so...so...proud of you. But I can't seem to keep my eyes open. Ugh...what's...what's going on--"
Maya struggles to stay awake.
"What's going on with you, Maya? Have you...have you been drinking or something?"
Maya, still dazed and confused, replies, "No...no...of course...not. Just really exhausted...is all."
Annette takes a look around Maya's bedroom. The room is a mess, with clothes scattered about the floor. Her bedsheets are crumpled, and the lights are flickering.
A cold wind is blowing through the room. Maya's skin is cold to the touch, and she's sweating. Her eyes are glazed over. She's in terrible shape, but Annette's no doctor.
"You really need to see a doctor, Maya. This doesn't look too good."
Maya smiles weakly and replies, "I'll be alright...in a bit. Just...need some rest. Ugh--"
Maya tries to stand up, yet again, she fails miserably.
Annette rushes over to help Maya sit up again.
Annette sternly asks, "What's going on, Maya?"
Maya sighs, "It's fine...just a cold. Nothing serious. Don't...don't worry..."
Annette sighs, "Look, Maya. If you don't go see a doctor, I'm gonna tell them you're doing drugs."
Maya weakly laughs, "You wouldn't...you're my friend...I trust you."
Annette rolls her eyes, "And your friend wants you to get some help. Y'know, you've always been real good to me, Maya. Always. But it seems like you've been slipping lately, and I don't know why."
Maya tries to sit up again, but she just falls back down again. Her body is tired and heavy, and her limbs feel like they're made of lead.
Maya mutters, "I feel...symptoms consistent...vampire--"
Oh, here we go again.
Annette facepalms, "Don't. You don't even know what the fuck you're talking about, Maya. Please, NOT now. NOT that."
Maya nervously says, "It's the truth, I swear."
Annette sighs, "Fine. What's your theory, then? Go on."
Maya's voice sounds strained as she replies, "Like I said...last time. The drowsiness, weak feeling, etcetera...it's all consistent with what ha--happens after va...vampire b...bites you and--and...drin--no...takes your blood..."
Annette shakes her head vigorously while holding onto her forehead, frustrated with Maya, "This is getting ridiculous! You really think a vampire came in here and drank from you? Huh?! Why YOU, of all people?! I mean, what about all that other stuff? The flickering lights, the cold air, the sweating? Look, I'm calling a doctor to come here and give you a look over. That's it!"
She continues, holding a finger up to get Maya to shut up, "I've been having a good day so far, and I'm not gonna let it get ruined by vampire theories or other nonsensical BS."
Maya shakes her head and replies, "But...but--"
"No buts, Maya. I'm calling the doctor. Now, relax. Get your mind off of this whole vampire thing. OK? Can you do that? For me? Please?"
Maya looks up at Annette. Her eyes are glassy and unfocused. She sighs and lays her head back on the pillow.
Annette says, "I'll take that as a 'yes'. Good."
Maya is slowly losing consciousness. She can barely keep her eyes open. However, she manages to ask Annette, "So, how'd the...interview go? Didn't fumble...the bag or anything like that?"
Annette smiles, "The interview was amazing. I didn't fuck up at all. She said a few times how good I was, haha! I feel pretty good about it! She even motivated me a bit and gave me some really great advice. We're meeting later tonight, and I can't wait."
Maya replies, "Ah, naughty...see, I said you'd be the perfect...candidate for Bernice. Haha!"
Annette pauses for a moment, "Yeah, heh. I guess you really are something of a matchmaker, huh?"
Maya's speech is slurred, and her eyes are half-open, "Heh heh...matchmaker...that, I am--"
Maya falls asleep. She lightly snores. Her breathing is slow and even.
Annette gently strokes Maya's red hair and places a sheet over Maya.
A few minutes go by, and Annette hears a knock on the door.
A doctor walks through the door with a briefcase, "Hi. Annette, I'm guessing? I'm Doctor Willie. Maya's friend, right? You sounded pretty concerned on the phone."
Annette stands up and says, "Yes, hello. Thanks for coming over, doctor. Right this way."
She guides the doctor to Maya's messy bedroom.
The doctor sees Maya's unconscious body lying on the bed, "So, what's wrong with your friend?"
Annette shakes her head, "I don't really know, doc. She's just not looking too great, and it's not like her to get sick, either. I'm...I'm just really worried about her."
The doctor examines Maya and then takes out a flashlight, "Let me get a good look at her. Can you give me some context? What was she doing right before you came in?"
Annette thinks out loud, "I mean, she was barely awake. Her body feels really cold to touch. She was as pale as a ghost, and her breathing was kinda erratic. I gave her some water and some aspirin."
The doctor shines his flashlight into Maya's eyes, and says, "Well, it's nothing life-threatening. Thankfully. I have to ask this. Has she been drinking or taking any drugs recently?"
Annette shakes her head and is a bit offended by the question, "No! Absolutely not, doc. She's not that kind of person."
The doctor politely (yet firmly) replies, "Sorry, but I had to ask."
Annette sighs, "No. No. Not at all. I've never seen her drink more than a glass of champagne. Maybe some wine."
The doctor goes back to Maya, "I'd like to ask a few questions. Just for my own peace of mind. If that's OK with you, of course."
Maya barely nods, "Of course. Ask away, doc."
The doctor asks a few basic questions:
How long ago was Maya's last period?
Any recent fevers or colds?
What kinds of medications does she take on a daily basis?
Has she recently gone through a severe trauma, such as a car accident or assault?
Does she have any family history of mental illness, such as schizophrenia or bipolar disorder?
The answers to these questions are all negative. Maya also tells him when she last had her period.
Annette waits outside, pacing back and forth, biting her nails; she is frustrated by Maya's condition.
She feels guilty, too. But she also feels like she shouldn't feed into Maya's theories about vampires. A fine line to walk in her shoes, no doubt.
After a few minutes, the doctor scratches his head, clears his throat, and asks, "I...I probably shouldn't be saying this, but you're not the first person to be presenting such similar...uh symptoms."
Maya is a bit confused and frowns a bit, "Wh...what do you mean, doc?"
The doctor sighs, "Well, the symptoms you've described to me are all eerily similar to other patients of mine. Weakness, dizziness, pale skin, etcetera."
He sighs and rubs his forehead, "I can't really discuss the details of the other cases, for obvious reasons. But suffice to say, they all claimed to be attacked and/or bitten by a--"
Maya, who is still feeling pretty weak, interjects, "Vampire!"
The doctor sighs again and shakes his head, "Oh dear. Yes. So you too, then? The other patients have said that."
Maya looks down at her bed, "So...what does this mean, doc? What's going on in this town? Is this a disease, or a...case of mass hysteria or something?"
The doctor takes a deep breath and lets out a sigh, "It appears to be bit of both, honestly. What you mentioned could be one of the many possible explanations for this, yes."
He begins to put his things back into his bag and continues, "Well, the symptoms you've described to me are all consistent with those of someone who has been bitten by a vampire, if pop-culture is anything to go by, that is. You might even possibly know of some people in town who've experienced something like this."
Maya sits up and looks at the doctor, "Have you heard this before, doc?"
"I'll try and talk to some of my colleagues in other towns and see if anyone's heard of this before. If that's OK with you, of course."
Maya is quiet. She's not sure how to feel about this.
Vindicated? Scared?
Annette knocks on the door, walks into the room and asks, "How's she doing, doc?"
"She's doing good. Nothing serious or life-threatening. Make sure she eats something and drinks plenty of fluids. Also, keep an eye on her. Let me know if anything changes. And make a call to set up an appointment, Maya."
The doctor finishes packing his things and prepares to leave Maya's place.
Maya calls out to Doctor Willie, "Um, thanks, doc! I really appreciate you coming over and checking up on me. I...I got a lot to think about now. Uh...thanks again. I'll call to set up that appointment."
The doctor nods and smiles, "Alright then. See you later, Maya. You too, Annette."
"Thank you, doc," Annette replies.
Maya's still trying to process what the doctor told her- about other people in this town claiming to be bitten by vampires.
Maya has a bit of a headache and a bit of a dizzy spell, so she asks, "Hey, think you can grab me something to eat? I'm not really feeling very well, so I don't want to move around too much."
Annette looks down at her shoes, "Of course, Maya. You hungry for anything in particular?"
"Lasagna."
Annette smirks, "Heh, sure. I'll go and get you some. Will you be alright for a bit while I'm gone?"
Maya chuckles (but barely), "Yeah, I'll be fine. I'm not that...sick. You...don't need to worry about me. I...can...take care of...myself."
Annette is still unsure about leaving Maya's side, "Alright. I'll be back in a few. Just...don't do anything rash, OK?"
Maya nods and says, "Yeah, of course. I'll...stay put."
Annette grabs her car keys and heads out to a local restaurant and orders a large lasagna for Maya and herself.
The restaurant itself is fuller than usual, with waiters walking back and forth. It's a bit of a struggle to order, so Annette grabs a seat. She casually browses through the menu, then tosses it aside and pulls out her phone.
She sends Maya a quick text: "OK. Ordering some lasagna now. Gonna take a while. Lots of ppl here. IDK why. b back soon. Hope u r doing OK."
She receives a reply almost immediately: "np, just resting rn."
Annette sends Bernice a text: "Hey. Can't wait for tonight. We're still on, right?"
She waits a few minutes. She gets up to check on the food and realizes it's going to take even longer. From the corner of her eye, she notices a man in a hoodie and jeans drinking a milkshake.
He appears to be looking over his shoulder a lot and fidgeting with his hands.
Annette looks away and sighs.
A few more minutes pass and Annette's phone dings: "Of course, dear. But, it'll have to be a bit later. I got a very important meeting tonight. I'm sure you understand. 10 PM sound good?"
Annette smiles and begins typing away: "Oh, OK. No probs. See you then. Really looking forward to it."
Almost an hour passes by. Waiters keep pouring in and out. Customers expressing their joy (or lack thereof) with each new dish.
Annette's sitting at her table, casually browsing the web.
Finally, the lasagna arrives at Annette's table.
The waiter pensively apologizes for the delays, "We appear to be short-staffed and swamped with customers. I'm terribly sorry. Please don't leave us a bad review. Nevertheless, we do hope the food is to your satisfaction. I shall retrieve the cheque for you."
Annette replies, "Thanks. No worries. I appreciate the gesture."
The waiter bows and then disappears into the kitchen.
Annette opens the bag and looks inside. She sighs with relief. She checks her watch and realizes that a lot of time has just flown by.
The waiter returns with the cheque and a card machine, "Here is the cheque."
He hands the cheque to Annette and says, "If you have any problems with the food or service, please feel free to let us know."
Annette pays for the lasagna. It's quite large. 15 bucks. Not bad for that price.
Annette grabs the lasagna and heads back to Maya's place. The man in the hoodie and jeans is still at his seat, but he's looking out the window, watching, as if waiting for something to happen.
She arrives at Maya's place. She opens the door and hears Maya snoring. She sighs a sigh of relief as she walks into the kitchen.
She places the lasagna on the countertop and turns to look at Maya. Her eyes are closed, and her face is calm.
She notices that Maya is shivering a bit and takes the blanket and covers her up. She decides to give Maya some more time to rest.
After a while, she gently shakes Maya awake, "Hey, Maya. I've got us some lasagna here. You wanna eat now or later?"
Maya wakes up, "Oh, yeah. Ugh...sorry. Yeah, sure. Let's eat now, thanks. You know where the forks and spoons are, right?"
Annette shakes her head and smirks, "'Course I do."
She keeps the table ready, laying out the plates and cutlery. She goes into the kitchen and comes out with a pair of oven mitts. She grabs the lasagna and brings it over to the table and sets it down.
She takes off the mitts and heads over to gently help Maya over to the dining table.
"Maya, it'll be good to get a change of scenery for a while. C'mon. I'll help you. Let's go. There we go."
She helps Maya sit down on a chair and pours her a glass of water, "Here. Drink up, OK? We need to make sure you stay hydrated. Also, dig in. Doctor's orders, heh heh."
Maya smiles at Annette and gets stuck in. She starts by cutting the lasagna into small pieces and eating one. She eats really fast, barely savoring the flavor and texture. She hasn't had anything since last night.
Annette sits across from Maya and eats slowly, raising her eyebrows at how messy Maya is being.
Annette has a big smile on her face, "So, uh, what did the doc say?"
Maya swallows her food and says, "I...I don't know...uh--"
Annette takes a sip of water, "It's OK if you don't wanna talk about it. But it's nothing too serious, right?"
"Nope, nothing...like that," says Maya in between chewing.
Annette smiles, "That's...that's good."
The lasagna is a bit cold, but it tastes good nonetheless.
Maya finishes her food and relaxes in her chair for a bit. The 2 women chat away. They talk about their jobs and whatnot.
"So, Maya, tell me more about this Lucile. She sounds fun!"
Maya's eyes brighten when she talks about Lucile, "Oh, she's amazing! A lotta fun! I've never met anyone like her! I'm so glad I went to that gala."
Annette smirks, "I'm not surprised. You're really in love, huh?"
Maya blushes, "Of...of course! I feel like I'm...in heaven. I know it probably just seems like a crush, but, y'know--"
"Heh, yeah, I get it. So, what's she like?"
"She's got insomnia and works really odd hours. She's also got this really nice cottage. Pretty secluded, but really really nice! And she's also a uh...scientist, I guess, so she spends a lot of her free time doing experiments. Y'know, science-y stuff. She's really smart. Very intellectual."
If only Maya knew.
Maya smiles and her eyes get all dreamy just thinking about Lucile.
"Yeah, she sounds really great. I'd love to meet her one of these days."
"I'm...I'm a little nervous to see her again. We're meeting again tonight. 7 PM."
Annette smirks, "Ha! Cool!"
Maya laughs and blushes a bit, "Well, you uh...wanna tag along. Say hi, maybe? Would you like that?"
Annette's smile fades, "Oh. Well, I...got my own date, I guess."
Maya's eyes widen, "Really? Oh my god! It's Bernice, isn't it?"
Annette blushes and stammers a bit, "Yeah. She's definitely got a thing for me, I guess."
"Wow, Annette! That's really cool!!"
Annette scratches the back of her head, "Heh, yeah. I just hope no one finds out. It would be...embarrassing. To say the least."
Maya leans in close to Annette and whispers, "Don't worry, your secret's safe with me."
"Good. It'd be embarrassing if everyone found out. I don't really care what they think of me. It's just that, y'know, it'd be an awful lot of pressure, and I don't like that. Also, it would scuttle Bernice's campaign. And that's the LAST THING I'd want on my conscience."
Maya reassures her friend, "Hey, you'll be fine. Everything's gonna be OK."
Annette lightly smiles and shakes her head, "Always the optimist, huh?"
"Yup! Just you wait and see!"
Just you all wait and see...
Annette blushes and lightly smacks Maya, "Now, try not to get sick or anything, OK?"
Maya laughs, "Yeah, I'm gonna do my best. Thanks for looking out for me. I really appreciate it. But, uh, can I ask you something?"
Annette looks into Maya's eyes and says, "Uh, sure, what's up?"
Maya clears her throat, "A few days ago, you mentioned wanting to find out people's secrets- you know, what makes them tick, stuff like that. Is that still going on? Does your new...'friend' Bernice have any?"
Annette takes a deep breath and sighs, "I don't know, to be honest. I haven't really been thinking about it as much lately. The interview was all that was and still is on my mind. As for Bernice, well she probably has. I mean, who doesn't?"
Maya's eyes light up, "You know, maybe you can try and find out more about her tonight, if you get what I mean. If you 2 are gonna be, y'know, dating or whatever. You might wanna get to know her better. Like, a LOT better."
Annette thinks for a bit and then smiles, "Well, you never know. Maybe it'd be a good idea, but I'd have to make a plan. Think of some way to ask her, you know?"
Maya nods, "Yeah, it's pretty obvious how you feel about her, and I'm sure she's feeling the same--"
Annette interrupts, "Well, I wouldn't call it a 'feeling', per se. I really admire her determination."
Maya is stunned, "Really?! That's it? What about her being incredibly sexy? And smart, and charming, and all that?"
Annette smiles, "I mean, yeah, I guess she is all those things. But, in a way, she reminds me a lot of me, y'know? Or who I wanna be. She's driven and ambitious. In a town of nobodies, it's kinda refreshing, really."
Maya raises an eyebrow, "So you wanna be a politician? Not exactly your...type of work, Annette."
She leans forward, "Also, what do mean by 'nobodies'? A--Am I a nobody?"
Annette chuckles, "Oh, come on, Maya. Of course not. But I mean, most people around here are just so--"
Maya raises her hand and sighs, "I...I'd rather not talk about it. Look, thanks for everything. Really. I'm gonna go back to bed now, if you don't mind. I'll be fine. So don't worry."
Annette frowns, "Well, alright, Maya. I'm gonna head out. Hope you feel better soon, OK? Bye."
"Thanks for everything, Annette. You've been real good to me."
"You too, Maya."
The 2 women hug each other and then part ways.
Annette gets into her car and starts the engine.
She goes through a mental checklist: "OK. I can't go emptyhanded tonight. So, I need to get a gift for Bernice, a bottle of wine maybe? Also, I gotta pick an outfit for tonight. Something nice, but casual. Nothing too fancy. Something a bit sexy, heh heh."
Annette has a few ideas, but she's not entirely sure of what to wear. She looks out the window and notices a man with a hoodie and jeans sitting in the driver's seat of a car.
The same man from the restaurant? She looks for a few seconds more before he drives away.
"Who was that guy? I thought I recognized him, but I'm not sure. Probably my imagination, huh?"
She shakes her head and goes on about her business, stopping by to buy a few bottles of wine. After that, she heads home and tries to relax a bit.
She picks out an outfit for tonight- a pair of white denim shorts and a low-cut black top. Simple, yet stylish. It's not exactly a formal occasion, after all.
Annette lays back on her bed and stares up at the ceiling. She's looking forward to what tonight has in store. Her body is tingling, and her heart is beating fast.
She checks her phone, "What if this is all a mistake? What if I'm not good enough for her? What if--"
She laughs at herself and sighs, "Ah, whatever. Stop it. You're better than this. You deserve this."
Soon enough, Maya isn't the only one fast asleep. Annette, too, is out like a light.
The sun is setting over Plaintry, casting a warm orange-yellow afterglow over the town. The mist that envelops the area adds an eerie touch to the atmosphere, giving it a haunting beauty.
The streetlights flicker on, casting long shadows on the sidewalks and streets.
The trees sway in the wind, their leaves rustling softly.
The sun dips below the horizon, casting the world into darkness, signaling the Kindred to awaken from their deep slumber.
The night is young, and the creatures of the night are ready to emerge from their dark and dingy corners, eager to taste the sweet blood of the unsuspecting and knowing alike.
Maya's phone displays the time: 6:35 PM. She has just a few minutes to get ready for her date with Lucile. She's a bit nervous, but excited at the same time.
She hasn't seen Lucile since last night, and she's looking forward to catching up with her before they were interrupted.
Annette's phone display reads: 6:56 PM. She's not remotely late, but she wants to get ready. She's a bit anxious and fidgety, but she's prepared for anything the night might bring.
As for Maya, she's now in the kitchen, eating a bowl of cereal. She's still feeling a bit hungry, and it's something she can do without moving around too much.
After a few minutes, she receives a text message from Lucile: "Eyyy, Maya! Small change of plans..."
Maya immediately picks up her phone and taps away, "Uh...ok?"
She receives the reply a few seconds later: "Will come to ur place to pick you up. Text me your address pls."
Maya smiles and replies: "k, will do!"
She finishes her cereal, washes the bowl and spoon, and sets the bowl in the sink. She then grabs her phone and heads into her room. She enthusiastically texts the location to Lucile and waits.
Lucile responds with a simple thumbs-up emoji.
Annette is laying on her bed, reading a self-help book. She's wearing a face mask and her hair is tied back.
The clock strikes 6:59 PM.
"Ah, still so much time," Annette nonchalantly thinks to herself as she flips the page of her book.
She's a bit nervous, but she's trying to remain calm. She doesn't wanna spoil her chances with Bernice, after all.
She's also got a few ideas on how to ask Bernice about her deeper secrets, but in a way that doesn't seem too obvious, or so she hopes.
Maya's phone dings: "Almost there. Wait 4 me outside"
Maya reads the message, her heart skips a beat. She replies: "OK!!!"
Maya checks to make sure there's nothing on her teeth and gives her face a quick scrub. She checks the time: 7:09 PM.
Maya hears a car approaching. She sees a red Camaro pulling up to the curb. 5th gen by the looks of it. The deep red is complemented by a black stripe running down the middle.
Maya's heart starts to race as she watches the driver get out and walk towards her.
It's Lucile, and she's wearing a white blouse with a black leather jacket. She also has a pair of black jeans and black boots on. Her makeup is done perfectly, and she's got a smile on her face.
Maya is mesmerized by the way Lucile moves.
Maya can barely contain herself. She runs towards Lucile and hugs her. She feels Lucile's arms wrap around her waist, and she feels Lucile's lips press against hers.
Maya can hardly believe how lucky she is.
Lucile smiles, "Hope I'm not too late, sweetie. I got a great night planned for us. But, we can't stay out too late. I uh...got work tomorrow. So, let's make the most of it, OK?"
Maya nods and smiles, "Yeah. Sure! Sweet ride by the way! This yours or did you rent it out for the night?"
Lucile laughs, "Oh, this? It's...well, let's just say it's a 'gift' of sorts. Pretty nice, huh? Anyway, let's get going, shall we?"
Clearly, Lucile isn't too keen on going into the specifics of where she acquired this ride from, and Maya is not interested in pushing her about it.
All is well...for now.
Lucile opens the car door for Maya, and she gets in.
As they drive off, Maya can't help but notice something strange. Lucile appears to be driving with one hand on the wheel and the other on the gearshift.
She also seems to be speeding up and slowing down, as if she's having trouble keeping the car steady.
Maya grips her seatbelt a bit tightly and politely asks, "So...you...drive like this all the time?"
Lucile smiles and looks at Maya, "I'm still getting a hang of it. It's been...a while."
It's been a whole lot more than a mere while in Lucile's case.
Maya chuckles, "Cool. Cool."
Lucile places her hand on Maya's thigh and reassures her, "Don't worry, sweetie. With me, you're safe as can be."
Maya feels comforted by her words and relaxes a bit.
Lucile continues, "Let's grab something to eat first, what do you say?"
"Sure, what did you have in mind?"
Lucile replies, "There's this diner that's really quaint and cute. They make the best snacks and drinks in town. You'll love it, I promise."
Maya smiles, "Great! I'd love to try that!"
Maya decides not to tell Lucile about the whole doctor-coming-over thing until they reach the diner.
The diner in question is slightly near the outskirts of Plaintry. The exterior is very simple and unassuming. It's a single-story building with a broken and flickering neon sign out front.
The logo is a simple chicken and the name of the place: "The Chicken Shack". A very unremarkable place by all accounts, but Lucile chose this place because it's Kindred-friendly and the "menu" does offer...delicacies more suited for vampire tastes.
Being on the outskirts means being away from prying eyes. Mortal eyes, that is.
They enter the place, and it's just as unremarkable inside as outside. The walls are painted a faded blue, and there's a few tables and chairs scattered about. It's empty, save for a couple of "patrons" who've chosen to feast (or be feasted on).
Lucile smiles and takes a seat, "I've come here a few times. It's a nice place, but kinda secluded. Good for what I need, I suppose."
Maya looks around the place and raises an eyebrow. Not her type of place per se, but Lucile likes it so she figures she might as well.
The waitress comes over with a notepad and a plastered-on smile. She looks pretty pale, her face gaunt and drawn. Her eyes are bloodshot, and her hair is mussed. She wears a tattered apron, and her voice is slightly hoarse.
"What'll it be for you 2?" she dryly asks.
Lucile starts, "I'll have the Blood-Orange Special."
Subtle.
Maya quickly peruses the menu and says, "That's...not here, Lucile."
Lucile places her hand on Maya's and says, "It's alright. I think the menu is a bit...out of date, right?"
The waitress simply nods, "Yup. 1 Blood-Orange Special. And, how about you?"
Maya chooses the Piña colada.
The waitress remarks, "Oh, feeling brave tonight, I see."
Lucile chuckles.
The waitress takes the orders and disappears into the kitchen, leaving the 2 women alone.
Maya asks, "'Blood-Orange Special'? What is that?"
Lucile smiles and replies, "Cranberry juice mixed with orange juice, alcohol, and a little bit of lemon."
Maya's eyes light up, "Oh, sounds yummy!"
"Yeah, it's quite the treat."
That's the official explanation. The Blood-Orange special is just blood mixed with orange juice; the alcohol and lemon is just for flavor.
So, Lucile and Maya get to talking about their respective days. They talk about work, of course, and Annette's interview with Bernice.
Lucile seems impressed by all of this. Until she hears about how terrible Maya was feeling in the morning.
A look of concern passes over her face.
Maya reassures her, "Don't worry, I'm fine now!"
Lucile smiles, "Glad to hear it, sweetie."
Maya goes on, "Besides, the doc seems like a nice guy. Very understanding. I feel better, y'know? I'm sure I'll be back to normal soon."
Lucile nods, "That's good to hear."
The waitress brings the Blood-Orange Special to Lucile with a thick straw. The blood is practically concealed by that orange juice and cheap alcohol. It doesn't have to taste good, it just has to satisfy the Beast innate within every Kindred.
Lucile digs into the drink and attempts to enjoy the contrasting sweet and sour flavors.
Maya slowly sips on her Piña colada.
As they drink and talk, Lucile asks, "So, Maya, what exactly did the doctor say?"
Maya chuckles, clears her throat, and replies, "Well, it was more of what I told him, or rather, what I believed was the uh...cause."
Maya then continues, "Remember how I told you about vampires? Let's just keep this between us, OK? But the doc said that there's plenty of people in this town that had a similar experience to me! Can you believe it? Like, that's crazy, right?"
Lucile's eyes widen, "REALLY?! That is crazy."
Lucile is absolutely screaming, "Masquerade breach, Masquerade breach, Masquerade breach!" in the back of her mind. She stays as calm as she can possibly be.
Maya's oblivious to Lucile's distress and goes on, "If vampires are real, what do you think they'd be like? Like, are they allergic to the sun? Does garlic scare them? Do they have any weaknesses or dietary restrictions?"
Lucile does her best to act casual and keeps her cool, "Oh, I'm not so sure. I've heard of a few folktales, played a few video games with vampires, but not a lot of actual experience in the uh...field, heh heh."
Lucile leans in closer and lowers her voice, "Listen, Maya, why are you so...obsessed with vampires? I've never met anyone who's been this curious before."
Maya's eyes light up, "I've always been fascinated with the idea. It's something that's just kind of stuck with me, I guess. It's hard to explain, but it's the sort of simple, innate curiosity that's just stuck with me."
Lucile nods and remarks, "Well, that's...interesting. Maybe we can continue to um...'explore' these ideas together?"
"That sounds great! What did you have in mind? I've already told my buddies on that online forum I told you about, and they were really eager to know more. They all sent me links to more info, which is where I got my start."
Lucile does her best to conceal her concern. She just smiles and says, "I'm glad to hear that you have a support group. Listen, hypothetical question, right? But what if you got the chance to become or became a vampire? Like, would you want it? Would it be something you'd...enjoy?"
Lucile is trying her best to ease Maya in.
Maya looks a bit stunned and nervously chuckles, "Wow. That's a BIG question, Lucile. I've never really thought about it. But, like, being a vampire would mean you'd have eternal life, right?"
"Yup." After all, Lucile can attest to that fact!
Maya strokes her chin and says, "Well, I've always kinda wanted to see what it's like. To live forever, I mean. But I dunno, it's a scary concept to think about. That and giving up garlic. Ugh, I love garlic bread! With cheese."
Lucile laughs and then asks, "So, you don't...uh, hate vampires or anything? You're just curious?"
Maya shakes her head and replies, "Well, sure, I guess. I've always been fascinated by the whole idea of vampires, you know, like the ones in video games and movies. Still, I guess I'm a bit turned-off about being bitten in the nights and feeling like shit the next morning...it's just so...creepy."
Lucile opines, "People gotta do what they gotta do to...survive."
Maya chuckles, "True, true. So, I guess you could say it's a blessing and curse kinda thing. On one hand, there's immortality or maybe just a very long long life. On the other hand, no cheese garlic bread!"
Lucile chuckles, "Ha ha ha ha! That's...certainly an interesting point of view, Maya."
The 2 women continue to talk and drink, and it's turning into quite the fun evening out. The diner is now almost completely full, with a few more patrons eating and drinking. Or pretending to.
Various orders for "Blood-Orange Special" or "Cranberry++" are heard amongst the noisy background.
"So, what do you say we leave this joint and hit the town for a bit?" says Lucile with a big smile on her face.
"Sure! Let's get going!"
The waitress brings over the bill, which Lucile quickly takes care of.
Maya is shocked by how much the "Blood-Orange Special" costs.
Lucile quickly hands the waitress the money.
Lucile and Maya make their way outside, and they see quite a few Harley-Davidson type motorbikes parked. The Harleys in question seem pretty banged-up and rusty, it's a miracle they still function.
The drivers, men and women clad in leather jackets and assorted punk-rock style attire, stare intently at Maya, as if they can sniff the blood coursing through her veins. They're practically drooling and licking their fangs.
"They look like they haven't fed or hunted in a while and their faces are pretty gaunt, which is not too unusual for Kindred, who have all the time in the world to find 'meals'. Must be some outta town Ravnos," Lucile thinks to herself.
One of the biker types, a woman with jet black hair tied back in a ponytail, slowly approaches Lucile.
She says in a low growl, "Goin' somewhere? It can be...dangerous out there this time of night. Don't wanna get into any trouble, now do ya?"
Lucile narrows her eyes and struggles to stare daggers at the woman, "Thanks, but we were just uh...leaving. C'mon, Maya, we gotta get going. See you later!"
Maya follows closely behind Lucile, keeping a good distance from the others and their hungry eyes. She's a bit scared and asks Lucile what that was all about.
Lucile shrugs, "Don't worry. Tonight is our night, right, sweetie? You just stay by my side and everything's gonna be OK."
Lucile gives her a big, warm smile.
They make it back to Lucile's red Camaro, and the 2 of them get in.
Maya turns to Lucile and asks, "So, where to next?"
Lucile replies, "I have a few places in mind, Maya. I think you'll like 'em."
She then asks her date, "Are you enjoying yourself so far?"
"'Course! Every minute with you is so...magical!"
Lucile smiles and starts the car up, and they're on their way again.
After a bit, Lucile asks, "So, vampires, huh? Wanna talk more about it or do you think I've heard enough already?"
Maya's eyes light up and she replies, "Uh...I'm ALWAYS excited to talk more about it. I'm not sure if it's weird or what, but I'm actually more intrigued about the whole uh...'thing' with them, I guess."
"'Thing', like their uh...vibe?"
Maya chuckles, "Yeah, I guess."
Lucile replies, "Well, vampires are supposed to be creatures of the night- exclusively. There's their immortality. But on the flipside, they can't go out in the sun and they need uh...blood to stay 'alive'. Heh heh. I guess that's the gist of it?"
Lucile doesn't want to spill all of her cards. After all, the more you reveal your cards, the less leverage you have to bluff your way out of a sticky situation, and more paranoid Kindred would consider this a sticky situation and put Maya under 6 feet of dirt, before draining her of all blood, obviously.
(Never let a good meal go to waste.)
"That sounds kinda...cool and also really scary at the same time," Maya says.
She continues, "I'd be interested in living forever, but what do you do with all that time? You could get really uh...bored after a while."
Lucile thinks to herself, "Yeah, what DO you do with all that time? Apart from scheme and plot for a century or more! Ugh. Look at me. I sound like an Ivory Tower snob. Not that I have an issue with 'em per se. But, she's got a point, what have I REALLY done with my immortality for the past 2 decades? Has it been that long? Sheesh."
Lucile hasn't responded for a while, still deep in contemplation. Vampires have moments of existential doubt, too!
Maya notices this and gently taps Lucile on the shoulder, "Hey, sorry did my uh...'crazy talk' shut you down. S--Sorry. I tend to do that, it's just I haven't seen anyone so interested in my strange little...obsession. Y'know, someone willing to talk to me about it. Most people, like Annette, just brush it off."
Lucile smiles and shakes her head, "Oh, no. Don't be sorry, Maya. I'm just...thinking about what you said, is all. For what it's worth, I love the sound of your 'crazy talk'. It's different from my usual conversations, which isn't much to begin with. You see, my...um, work can get lonely at times. That, and I've spent a lot of time with...just...alone, I guess. Heh heh heh."
Maya nods, "Well, I'm glad to hear that, Lucile. So, do vampires, assuming they're really real, get bored with living forever?"
"Uhhhhhhhhhhhhhh...I mean, sure, maybe some do. Still, we gotta consider that they might actually 'die'. Y'know, wooden stakes, sunlight, all that."
"Or cheese garlic bread- extra garlic!"
The 2 women burst out in laughter and giggling.
Maya raises a finger, "Ah, I hadn't exactly thought of that. So, it's not really immortality and invincibility, it's just like--"
Lucile subtly hints, "Not aging, but not 100% death-proof. Sorta."
"Sort of."
Maya adds, "Then, there's the whole feeding part. Sounds...intense. And sad."
Lucile raises an eyebrow, "Intense and sad?"
"Well, it's like what you said about blood being needed for survival. Sounds pretty sad to have to hunt people down like that and, like, hurt 'em, right? I mean, I kinda feel...hurt myself. And there's others in the town who, y'know, feel the same. Still, I guess you gotta feel sorry for the vamps, too. The blood part, I dunno, it sounds like some kind of...curse to me."
Lucile, clearly impressed, thinks to herself, "Wow, she's sharp. Very sharp. Still, she doesn't have to feel sorry for us, it's our choice to make. Then again--"
She replies to Maya, "That's...interesting. A curse would imply someone um...cursed them. So, who do you think it is, Maya?"
Maya scratches her head, "Uh...eh. I have no clue. It could be, like, an old powerful warlock or sorcerer or being who has nothing better to do with their time and wants to spread pain and suffering? Y'know, just out of spite or cuz they like messin' with people?"
Lucile subtly shakes her head and thinks to herself, "There she goes, wandering off the trail again. I just hope this doesn't get awkward later on when we--Eleanor has to Embrace her. Should that actually be a possibility, will we still have this relationship? I like it, I really do. I'm sure Maya feels the same way right now, but...this is getting complicated."
There she goes again, contemplating.
Maya continues rambling on.
Still, they both rather enjoy talking about the subject matter, even though it's starting to border on the Masquerade being broken in Lucile's eyes.
Then again, who cares? It's just 2 lovers, a Kindred and a potential Kindred, chatting over a slow drive through town.
Eventually, they arrive at a park. It's a bit more secluded, away from prying mortal eyes.
The park is located on the edge of Plaintry, near the riverbank. It's not particularly large, but there are plenty of trees and shrubs to create a picturesque atmosphere.
The night is cool and clear, and a crescent moon shines brightly overhead. There's a couple of wooden benches that overlook the river. It's perfect for sitting and gazing out over the water.
Or getting frisky.
"So, how'd ya like it so far, Maya?"
"It's very nice."
"Yup. So, why don't we uh...take a little stroll around?"
Hand interlocked in hand, the 2 women start walking. It's very romantic. They walk as the moonlight reflects off the river. There's not many people around, and it's quiet. Just them and the gentle sounds of nature.
It's a lovely sight to behold.
As they continue to walk, they begin talking about the town and how different it is compared to other places. And yet how similar it all feels after a while.
It's clear that Maya likes living in Plaintry, but Lucile has mixed feelings about it.
Maya shares some of those feelings and wishes to travel to other parts of the world, but she can't really afford to do so on a lifestyle writer's pitiful salary.
After a few minutes of talking, Lucile says, "I gotta be honest, I didn't wanna move all the way out here at first. But...I guess I had very little choice in the matter."
Maya tries to spin it in a more positive direction, "Well, if you hadn't moved, then we wouldn't have met at the gala! That was like a sign, don'tcha think?"
Lucile pensively chuckles, unsure of how to reply, "Maybe, who knows? I mean, I'm grateful that we met. It's just that...I've seen...things in this town. It was a...long time ago. It's not something I can easily explain or talk about. Not on a night like this, Maya. Not now."
Maya nods, "Um...OK, maybe another time then?"
Lucile simply replies, "Maybe."
They're almost nearing the end of their walk when Lucile stops suddenly and asks, "Say, let's get a few pictures together, Maya!"
Maya blinks and says, "Uh...sure."
They find a gazebo nearby and Lucile whips out her phone. It's a green Samsung Galaxy S8 Plus.
She smiles as she shows it to Maya.
"Cool!"
She suggestively asks Maya, "Come here, closer."
"Ha ha! You don't have to ask twice!"
"Let's say 1-2-3!"
"1-2-3!"
Flash! A perfect picture of the duo.
The 2 women are smiling and posing for the camera, looking as happy as ever. Some goofy faces, a kiss and a wink here and there, too.
They check it out together. It looks great!
"I wanna get this one framed," Lucile says.
Maya raises her eyebrows, "Framed? How old are you, haha--"
Lucile laughs and lightly pinches Maya's cheek, "Ah, haha. Don't worry about it, sweetie. I just wanna have a constant reminder of how great you are."
Maya's face turns red, "You're so...cute, Lucile!"
Lucile and Maya hug each other and Lucile steals a light kiss from her date.
"I love you, Lucile. I love you so much."
Lucile whispers, "I love you too, Maya. So, so much."
After a while of walking around and some impromptu dancing, they head back to Lucile's red Camaro. They get in, and the ride continues.
Maya asks, "So, what's next? Do you have any more plans in mind?"
Lucile is lost in thought and doesn't respond for a few seconds.
She finally says, "Oh, uh...how about somewhere private? I...I just want to be with you, Maya. I just want to spend every second with you. I can't really explain it, but it's like a dream come true."
Maya blushes and places her hand on Lucile's shoulder, "I feel the same way, Lucile. Oh, wow, Lucile, you're really cold. You...OK?"
"Yeah, I'm fine, Maya. Here, lemme just turn down the A/C a bit." She fiddles with the Air Conditioning knob and brings it down a bit.
Maya naughtily suggests, "Well, we could always...keep each other warm."
Lucile smiles, "Heh, that would be nice. Just the 2 of us. I would really love that, Maya."
Maya nods in agreement, "Yeah. I know a place. It's a bit cheesy but, yeah."
Lucile gives her a puzzled look, "'Cheesy'? How so?"
Maya responds, "Well, it's a little bit of a drive from here. But, it's very beautiful. It's the nearby hills overlooking the town. It's kinda a cliché, but it's very very romantic."
Lucile smiles and says, "Wow, that sounds wonderful, So, where's it then?"
Maya replies, "Lemme enter it into the GPS. Gimme a sec."
Once the location is entered in, Lucile slams the breaks and makes a sharp U-turn. Not many vehicles this late at night, so she can get away with that.
She gives Maya a sultry smile and winks before saying anything else.
Maya is looking forward to this.
They eventually arrive at a hill overlooking the town of Plaintry. It's a small hill, not too tall, yet it's steep in places.
Lucile parks in a spot that gives a great view across most aspects of its surroundings: The lights, the buildings reflecting against themselves, and the serene sounds coming up through.
Maya rolls down the window and takes a deep breath, "Ah, this is the life. It's a perfect night, isn't it, Lucile?"
"Yeah. It's pretty nice."
Lucile simply looks out across the town, staring intently towards the horizon line beyond which lies nothingness except stars shining brightly overhead. She's deep in thought, or at least appears to be.
Maya looks over at Lucile, her eyes sparkling with curiosity.
She asks, "So, Lucile, are you uh...OK? I don't think you've said much since we got here. I was thinking maybe you'd like a bit of privacy, but I'm getting the feeling you were thinking about something...different?"
Lucile snaps out of her daze and turns her gaze towards Maya, "What? Oh, no, this is absolutely lovely, Maya. I was just thinking, that's all. A lot on my mind, I guess."
Maya frowns, "Anything I can help with?"
Lucile reassures her, "No, no. It's OK, sweetie. I'm OK. I'm fine, honest."
"Well, if you say so. For what it's worth, I'm here for you. I'll be happy to listen, anytime."
Lucile smiles, "Thanks, Maya. That means a lot to me. Truly."
She adds, "So, how about we...uh...well, y'know?"
Maya takes a second to process Lucile's proposition, "Oh, heh heh. Wow, that's...awesome. Are you sure? I mean, in the car? It IS yours, right?"
Lucile replies, "Yes, Maya, it's mine."
Maya's cheeks are turning red, "OK. Well, alright."
Maya takes off her seatbelt. Lucile does the same.
Maya gets closer to Lucile.
Lucile places her hand on Maya's waist.
They kiss, and Maya feels a jolt of excitement run through her. She wraps her arms around Lucile. Lucile kisses her passionately, almost as if she's afraid Maya will disappear the second they break contact.
Lucile gently bites Maya's lower lip and slowly moves her hands downwards, reaching Maya's breasts. Just as she's about to, Maya jolts back.
Maya shakes her head, "Ugh...sorry, it's just all this stuff in the car is just...blocking me, gettin' in the way and all that."
Lucile strokes Maya's hair, "Backseat."
Maya's eyes light up, "Oooh. OK, OK. Yeah, that could work! C'mon!"
Lucile and Maya get into the backseat. It's quite spacious since the front seats can be pushed forward. They can make this work.
Maya snuggles up to Lucile. Lucile responds by kissing her softly, moving her lips over Maya's cheeks, chin, and neck. She kisses Maya's neck and slowly moves her mouth over her skin.
It's a very exciting feeling, and Maya begins to breathe more heavily. She lifts her head up, exposing more of her neck to Lucile.
Lucile can sense Maya's blood pumping through her veins. She, however, manages to suppress the urge and goes back to kissing Maya.
Not tonight, Beast. Not tonight.
Maya places her hand on Lucile's breasts, "Oooooh...Lucile. Hold me closer. I wanna feel you. I wanna touch you. I wanna be closer. So, so close, Lucile."
Lucile stops kissing her, "You...wanna get undressed?"
Maya's eyes light up and she replies, "Oh uh...sure!"
It's a bit of a struggle to get completely undressed in a car, so they just remove their tops and bras. For the time being. Maya is in a state of absolute bliss as she feels her skin touching Lucile's, rubbing against her in a very arousing way.
Lucile is just as excited, rubbing her body against Maya's.
Lucile climbs on top of Maya, and they begin making out again, while holding each other tightly. Lucile can't stop thinking about how lovely Maya looks right now.
Maya expresses what she's feeling by kissing Lucile passionately, feeling the woman's tongue explore her mouth, "I love you, I love you so much, Lucile. I want to feel more of you. I wanna feel you closer to me."
Lucile huskily responds, "I want you too. I need you."
Lucile puts her hand behind Maya's head and guides her towards her breast, until Maya's face is positioned millimeters away from Lucile's nipple.
Maya knows what she's gotta do. She gladly licks Lucile's nipple, and Lucile moans in response. Maya swirls her tongue around Lucile's nipple while massaging her other breast.
Lucile tightens her grip on Maya's hair and lets out a groan of pleasure. She can't believe how good this feels.
Maya's lips and tongue on Lucile's nipple are driving her wild. She closes her eyes, and her body starts to shake. It's such an intense sensation. Her legs tremble, and she arches her back. It feels like her entire body is shaking. She's never experienced anything like this before.
And Maya isn't even finished yet.
"Mmmmmm," Lucile's moan gets louder as Maya sucks on her nipple and gently nibbles it. Her eyes roll back, and she lets out another loud groan. Maya keeps going, switching between licking and sucking, alternating between her nipples.
All the while, Lucile keeps moaning. Her hips are bucking wildly.
Lucile then kisses Maya deeply and says, "This feels so good, sweetie." The sound of her voice alone is enough to send shivers down Maya's spine. She can feel her heart beating rapidly.
However, even with the front seats pushed all the way forward, maneuvering around can be quite...challenging.
Maya can feel her legs getting cramped and she decides to break off from the kiss for a moment, "Damn it, sorry, I'm getting a bit...cramped. Sorry, Lucile. Maybe we can continue this someplace else?"
Lucile simply smiles and asks, "Just another minute, please?" She resumes kissing Maya, and Maya returns the favor. They keep kissing, and Lucile can feel Maya's body trembling in excitement. It's clear that she's really enjoying this.
One final kiss later and the women put their clothes back on, giggling and glancing at each other the whole time. Lucile gets back into the driver's seat and starts the car.
Maya sits in the back and stretches out her legs a bit.
"Oh, wow...I've never done it in a car before. That was something else, Lucile," Maya says, cheeks flushed pink. She looks at Lucile through the rearview mirror, and her eyes meet the woman's. They both smile at each other.
Lucile asks, "So, where to now? Do you uh, wanna head home or--"
Maya doesn't respond right away. She's a bit preoccupied with the sensations coursing through her body. She still can't believe what just happened. She clearly wants more.
She just needs some time to process it all. So, she takes a deep breath and tries to calm herself down. She's still trembling a bit, but manages to compose herself.
She then says, "This has been a truly wonderful night, Lucile. I wish it could go on. But I...got work tomorrow. Whoa, is that the time?!"
The car's display shows the time as 10:01 PM. Time flies when you're having fun. Or, in this case, doing things to have more fun.
Lucile simply says, "I understand. Yeah, I...uh, well...I got a, how do I say this, right, a sort of promotion at my job. It's nothing too big, but--"
Maya immediately interrupts, an almost sad look on her face, "But we'll still be able to see each other, right? RIGHT?" She has, in essence, completely fallen in love with Lucile.
Lucile nervously chuckles and responds, "Uh, yeah, hopefully. It's just that it was all so...sudden, y'know. I got a lot of training to do." Lucile does her best to hold back her tears for reasons that should be obvious.
Lucile tries to change the subject, "So, not much of a night owl, huh? 10 PM your bedtime or something? Ha ha ha. Well, I guess I'll get you home then."
Maya just nods. She feels like she's in some sort of trance. She can barely pay attention to what Lucile is saying.
Lucile starts the car and begins driving back towards Maya's apartment. She takes a different route this time, trying to avoid the more crowded parts of town and opting for the more "scenic route" instead. It also helps her get used to her new car.
She's gonna be relying on it. A lot.
For the next few weeks, at least.
If all goes according to plan.
Which it rarely does on volatile nights such as these.
But, for now, all is well. For the most part. Maya is in bliss and Lucile is just trying to stay focused on the road. Still, she can't help but glance at Maya through the rearview mirror every once in a while.
Maya breaks the silence, "So...this new job, is it something you've always wanted?"
Lucile sighs and replies, "It's...complicated, Maya. Very complicated. It's something I never thought would happen. Not to me. It's still quite a lot for me to take in."
Maya asks, "And what kind of 'training' does this require?"
Lucile shrugs and tries to deflect with a vague answer, "Oh, y'know, uh...stuff. Science stuff. Sciencey...stuff."
"Look, it's OK. I just hope we get to see each other...touch each other, feel each other. I...I--" Maya can't even finish the sentence without breaking down in tears. She can't hide her true emotions any longer.
She really, really loves this woman, and it's tearing her up to see her leave like this.
If she knew the whole story, she'd be howling from the rooftops.
Lucile slams the brakes and turns around to face Maya, "Maya, we can still see each other. It's just that I'll have a lot less free time, that's all. Believe me, if I could say 'no' to this job, I absolutely would. But you don't know the whole story," Lucile's voice is shaking, and she's barely able to keep herself from crying.
She's trying to be strong for Maya's sake.
She adds, "I'll try my best to make time for you. Now, didn't we have such a wonderful night? Let's not end it on tears." She tries to smile and wipes the tears off Maya's cheeks.
Maya can tell that Lucile is really conflicted about this new "job" of hers.
Maya wonders why she's being so vague about the specifics.
It's probably better that she doesn't know. For now. Regardless, this is all very confusing. Still, she manages to calm down and gives Lucile a pat on the shoulder.
"Yeah, it was a magical night."
Lucile nods, "It was, wasn't it? We had fun. And that's what matters."
Lucile continues driving till she reaches Maya's place. They both get out of the car. Maya looks up at her apartment complex. It's a bit run-down and unkempt, but it's been her home for a few years.
Anyways, she turns to face Lucile. They hug each other and hold onto each other tightly, both of them feeling a mix of sadness and joy. One final passionate kiss goodnight, and Lucile gets back in her Camaro.
Maya waves goodbye and walks inside. It's a bit of a struggle, but she manages to reach her apartment door. She opens it and steps inside.
She slouches against the door and takes a deep breath. The first thing she notices is the smell. It smells...weird. She can't be bothered by it this time of night.
She slips into something more comfy and triple checks her windows before snuggling into bed.
Tomorrow's another day, after all. She hopes she'll see Lucile again. Maybe tomorrow. Or the night after that, perhaps?
Lucile drives back to her cottage. She parks the car, turns off the engine, and just sits there for a while, trying to collect her thoughts.
She thinks about Maya, about the future, and about all the things that could have happened tonight.
She feels the pressure already getting to her and she hasn't even started. The Final Death of the previous Kindred courier tugs away at the back of her mind.
Tears of blood start streaming down her face as she asks herself why someone else couldn't have been picked? There's plenty of Kindred in Plaintry. Why her?
Still crying, she hits the steering wheel and curses those perceived to be responsible under her breath- her Sire, the other Kindred, the Ivory Tower. She really doesn't wanna do this. But, it's not like she has a choice. No choice at all.
So, she might as well suck it up and do her job.
Just as she's about to wipe away the sanguine tears, her phone rings. It's Eleanor. Ah, great. The last person she was expecting a call from.
Lucile dryly answers, "Yes?"
Eleanor asks, "Have you made your decision yet?"
"Yes, I...I have," Lucile's voice is shaking.
Eleanor, with a tone of impatience in her voice, asks, "And?"
"Oh. Well, yeah, she's...she's absolutely worthy, Eleanor."
"Very well. We shall meet tomorrow night to discuss specifics. I must go now. Goodnight"
"Hmmm."
Lucile sighs and hopes that she's making the right choice. Would Maya and her still have a relationship after the Embrace? Does she even wanna consider such a thought?
What if it backfires and Maya isn't cut out for the Tremere Clan?
So many questions. So much at stake. She hopes it works out. She really, really does. Considering the alternative is worse. Far worse.
After a few minutes, she manages to pull herself together, wipes away the tears of blood, and gets out of her car.
While Maya, still a mortal snoozes off, Lucile is hard at work- training. Memorizing maps, special routes to take, codes to remember, etcetera, etcetera. She's gonna have a lot of work to do. Even that, however, is an understatement.
Meanwhile...
Bernice has just finished seeing her 2 very important guests off. She smiles to herself as she looks around at her office. Just then, she hears a ring on her doorbell.
Bernice's house is a mansion, a luxurious estate on the outskirts of town. It's in a much more affluent and expensive neighborhood. From the outside, it's quite impressive.
A large mansion with a wrap-around porch, stained-glass windows, and a huge garden in the front yard.
She has a team of gardeners working on it day and night. It's very well maintained and aesthetically pleasing.
Inside, the house is even more impressive. The foyer has a grand staircase, marble floors, and crystal chandeliers. The living room has a fireplace and a huge flat-screen TV. Bernice takes great pride in her home, and she enjoys entertaining guests there.
Truly a house suited for a politician of Bernice's caliber. Or, aspiring politician at least.
Bernice answers the door, and there stands Annette. She's wearing a pair of white denim shorts and a low-cut black top. Bernice raises an eyebrow and gives a coy smile, "Well, well, well. Hello, Annette. Come on in."
Annette gives her a sultry smile, "So--" she nervously shuffles her feet a bit.
Bernice interrupts her, "I was just seeing some guests off, you should meet them." She gently takes Annette by the hand and leads her inside.
Annette giggles and says, "Well, I...hope I'm not intruding on anything important."
"Not at all, dear."
Bernice introduces the first guest- Arman.
"Arman. This here is Annette. A writer for Nimbus magazine."
Arman bows his head, "Pleasure to meet you, Ms. Annette. I believe I saw you at the gala, yes?"
Annette nods back, "Uh...yeah. Nice to meet you too, Mister Arman."
The second guest- Ginny.
"Ginny, this is Annette."
Ginny simply flashes a quick smile and says, "Hey." She eyes Annette from head to toe.
Annette smiles back. She's getting more and more nervous. And kinda creeped out by these 2.
Finally, Bernice stretches out both her arms, "Well, it has been...quite a productive evening, hasn't it? Arman. Ginny. I'll be seeing you around, yes? And once again, thank you for your...contribution to my campaign. Not a cent shall go to waste, I promise you."
Arman firmly replies, "We expect the best outcomes, Miss Bernice."
Ginny nods in agreement.
Annette remembers the bottle of wine she got for Bernice. It's still in the car.
She excuses herself, "Oh, sorry, I left something in my car. Um...goodnight Mr. Arman and Ms. Ginny."
The duo simply nod as Annette scurries off. She opens the car and grabs the bottle as quickly as she can.
From the corner of her eye, she can't help but notice Ginny watching her intently. It's a bit unsettling, but she tries to ignore it.
She then heads back inside. Bernice is waiting for her. She's standing in the foyer, hands behind her back.
She hands the bottle to Bernice, "Here. It's a gift," she smiles, feeling a bit more confident now.
She continues, "So, who were those 2? They didn't look like they were from around...here." She tries to sound casual, but she's clearly curious.
Bernice chuckles and replies, "Oh, they just donated quite a substantial amount to my campaign. I won't specify, of course. I'm sure you understand the need for...discretion in such matters, dear."
Annette nods and chuckles to herself. She's not too surprised about Bernice being the type to accept donations from people like that. But, then again, the woman's got an election to win.
All's well that ends well, right? Still, she can't help but wonder who exactly those 2 are. Especially that blonde woman. And why are they so interested in Bernice's campaign?
Little did she know...
Maybe she'll ask Bernice later. When she's...a little more susceptible to questions. Either way, there's a good time to be had here tonight.
Bernice invites Annette into the living room. They sit on the couch and start chatting.
Annette excitedly tells Bernice that the interview should be published in a few days' time.
Bernice smiles and says, "That's wonderful news, Annette. I'm sure it'll be a big hit."
Annette blushes and says, "Aw, thanks. It's gonna be our 400th issue of Nimbus magazine. So, that has to count for something, right?"
Bernice nods and replies, "Absolutely. It's a very impressive feat. You ought to be proud of yourself."
Annette beams with pride. She adds, "And uh, I've been thinking about what you said earlier...about us, y'know--" she trails off.
Bernice smirks and says, "Yes?"
Annette takes a deep breath and says, "Well...I think we should--I should just grab on, y'know like you said...and just do it."
Bernice raises an eyebrow and asks for confirmation, "Really? You're sure about this?"
Annette nods and says, "Yeah, I'm sure. I want this. But I gotta address the elephant in the room first."
Bernice leans back and asks, "Which is?"
Annette replies, "Well, this won't y'know...jeopardize your mayoral campaign or anything, right? I mean, I don't wanna be seen as a liability or anything."
Bernice laughs and says, "Oh, no, no, no. Not at all, Annette. I can assure you, this will be our...secret. No one else needs to know. I'll make sure of that."
Annette smiles and says, "Great! That's all I needed to hear."
Still, the word "secrets" kept playing in the back of Annette's mind. What kinds did someone like Bernice harbor?
Bernice inspects the bottle of wine that Annette brought. She's quite impressed by it. She gets up and goes to the kitchen.
She comes back with 2 glasses and a corkscrew. She opens the bottle and pours a glass for Annette and herself.
"To you, Annette!"
Annette is a bit flushed and replies, "To the...future...um, Mayor of Plaintry!"
Clink!
They clink their glasses and take a quick sip. The wine is delicious. Annette can't believe how good it tastes. A whopping 50 dollars well spent. She's never had anything quite like it before.
Bernice is enjoying it as well. She's savoring every drop. Clearly a connoisseur.
Annette feels a bit embarrassed about her lack of experience in such matters.
She makes a mental note to learn more about the pretentious world of wine connoisseurs.
They spend a few minutes talking about wine and about how this particular bottle has a certain "full-bodied" taste to it. Annette has no idea what that means, but she just nods along. She's not really paying attention to what Bernice is saying.
She's too busy admiring the woman's beauty. She bites her lip and stares at Bernice's cleavage. She can feel her heart beating faster. She's getting slowly aroused.
Bernice notices Annette staring at her and seductively asks, "See something you like?"
Annette blushes and says, "Oh, uh...sorry. I just--"
Bernice laughs and says, "I promised you an exclusive behind-the-scene, didn't I?"
Annette giggles and says, "Thanks. I just--"
Bernice smiles and remarks, "You're quite cute when you're flustered, Annette."
Bernice gets up, walks over to Annette, takes her by the hand, and leads her to an upstairs bedroom. It's a large, spacious room with a king-size bed, a dresser, and a walk-in closet. The walls are painted a light shade of blue, and the floor is carpeted.
The lighting has been dimmed down low enough where only subtle shadows remain visible while making everything appear almost mysterious.
But wait, what's all that? On the walls?
On the wall above the bed, there's a metal hook. There's also a rope tied to it. Next to the hook, there's a rack with several riding crops, whips, and floggers.
Bernice proceeds to remove her clothes, revealing her voluptuous body. She's wearing black lingerie underneath her outfit. She's got quite the figure, and she's proud of it.
She turns around and looks over her shoulder, giving Annette a sultry look.
Annette swallows hard and is a bit taken aback by the room. She shakily says, "Uh...Bernice--"
Bernice walks up to Annette and softly strokes her cheek, "Yes, dear?"
Annette lips quiver, "Wow, so all this stuff? Yours? Or--"
Bernice laughs and says, "Oh yes. These are all mine. I enjoy these sorts of things, dear. Do you really think politics is my only interest?"
"Uh, no?"
Bernice adds, "I suppose it's all a bit...jarring for first timers, but I have, shall we call it a...side hustle, yes? I dabble in BDSM."
Annette doesn't know what to say. She's been into that stuff and she's curious. She wants to try it out. She's always been a bit of a thrill-seeker, after all.
Annette asks, "So, you're a dominatrix, then?"
Bernice smirks and replies, "Well, yes. And no. I'm also a submissive. I can play both roles depending on the situation, and who I'm playing with, of course. It's all very fluid and flexible."
The journalist in Annette wants to ask more questions. She nods and says, "Oh, I see. Cool!"
Bernice asks, "Have you ever tried anything like this before?"
Annette shakes her head and bluntly states, "I've always wanted to. I--I got another question. What about your other clients?"
Bernice clicks her tongue, "Tut tut, dear. I don't discuss 'other clients'. But I do appreciate your confidence in asking such a bold question. Let's just say that my other clients value discretion above all else. However, you're quite special. So, let's get back on track, shall we? This is not going to be like our interview session, dear."
Annette might have hit a gold mine of secrets but she's not mining it today. Moreover, she doesn't wanna jeopardize the relationship already blossoming between her and the next potential Mayor. She can always dig deeper later on.
For now, she just has to take it one step at a time.
Annette asks, "So, how do we decide who takes charge? Like...uh--"
Bernice simply asks, "Do you want to take charge, Annette?"
Annette replies, "Well, yes, I'd love to. But...you're the pro here, y'know?"
Bernice chuckles and says, "I see. You're quite the bold one, aren't you?"
Annette blushes and says, "Thanks. I uh...I just...well, I never really knew it was a thing, y'know? I mean, I've seen stuff on TV and online, but never in real life. Never in a town like this, heh."
Bernice snarkily replies, "You'd be surprised what goes on in this town--"
Catching herself mid-sentence, she continues, "Regardless, you're in good hands, dear. I can assure you. Now, shall we begin? There are rules we must first discuss. I trust you will respect them?"
Annette eagerly nods.
They both go over some ground rules- safewords, limitations, etcetera. Annette takes a deep breath.
Bernice removes the rest of her clothing, revealing her stunning naked form once again. She has a small tattoo of an anchor on her lower back. She turns to Annette and says, "Like what you see? Come, don't keep me waiting."
Annette can't help being curious and asks about Bernice's tattoo.
"Oh, this? It's a...reminder. A memento, if you will. I had a lot of adventures back then. Some good. Some...not so good. But they're all behind me now."
She beckons, "Come, Annette. Shall we begin with some light foreplay?"
Annette nervously laughs and says, "You gotta tell me about these adventures some time." She takes off her clothes as well.
Bernice notices Annette's underwear and remarks, "My, my, what a lovely pair of panties you have there, Annette. They really accentuate your curves."
Annette blushes and says, "Thanks. I uh...I had these for a while now, heh heh."
Bernice smiles and says, "Well, they suit you. Now, let's not waste another second."
She walks over to the rack and grabs a riding crop. She turns to Annette and says, "Let's start with something simple. Lay down on the bed, dear."
Annette nods and does as she's told. She lays down on the bed and waits for Bernice.
Bernice climbs on top of Annette and straddles her. She begins gently caressing Annette's body with the riding crop.
Annette closes her eyes and moans softly. She can feel her body tingling with excitement. She's never felt anything like this before. It's such a strange sensation.
She can't help but wonder what's going to happen next.
Bernice slowly runs the riding crop over Annette's breasts, teasing her nipples. Annette lets out a soft moan and arches her back.
Bernice brings the riding crop down to Annette's thighs and gently runs it up and down her legs. Annette shivers with pleasure and says, "Oooooh...that feels good."
Bernice smiles and says nothing. She then takes the riding crop and lightly taps Annette's inner thighs.
Annette gasps and moans. She can feel her pussy getting wetter by the second. She's never been this turned on this quickly before.
Bernice notices this and slowly drags the riding crop across Annette's pussy, teasing her clit.
Annette moans louder and says, "Oh god, Bernice! This feels amazing!"
Bernice chuckles and places a her finger on Annette's lips, "Shhhhh." She leans in and whispers, "We're just getting started."
Annette simply looks into Bernice's eyes and nods in the affirmative.
She's ready for whatever comes next. She trusts Bernice. She's in capable hands. She knows that. She just hopes she can handle it.
This is all so new to her.
But she's willing to test her limits, even though certain boundaries (both professional and personal) may come crashing down after tonight anyways!
Bernice gets off of Annette, grabs a pair of handcuffs and says, "Now, I want you to put your hands above your head and keep them there."
Annette does as she's told. Bernice proceeds to handcuff Annette's wrists to the bedpost.
Bernice takes the riding crop and continues to slowly drag it across Annette's body. She starts with her forehead, then moves down to her neck, then to her abdomen, and finally to her thighs where she lightly taps Annette's pussy.
Annette moans and squirms. She can feel her juices flowing freely now; she's soaking wet.
Annette wiggles around a bit and says, "...I need more. I WANT MORE!"
Bernice chuckles and firmly says, "Patience." She brings the riding crop up to Annette's breasts and gently flicks her nipples.
Annette moans and squirms some more. She's desperate for release. She needs it.
She wants it.
Bernice takes the riding crop and smacks Annette's thigh. Gently at first. Then harder.
Annette screams with pleasure. She can feel her body shaking. The riding crop leaves a reddish mark on Annette's thigh, and she continues to moan in ecstasy.
Bernice sits down on the bed and narrows her eyes, "You've done well so far. However, it's not over yet."
Annette's breathing is getting heavier. She tries to relax and let herself go. It's hard, but she manages to stay focused, "I'm...I'm ready. Bring it. B--Bring it on!"
Bernice puts the riding crop down and gets on top of Annette. She places her hand on Annette's thigh and starts slowly dragging her nails across the reddish mark.
Annette's eyes roll back as she moans in pleasure, "Ahhhhh...yessssss."
Bernice continues this for a while, dragging her long and sharp nails across Annette's skin.
Annette can't stop moaning. Her body is completely taken over by ecstasy.
Bernice gets off of Annette and retrieves a vibrator from the nightstand drawer.
The vibrator that she retrieves is sleek, smooth, and metallic, with a shiny blue coating. It's also about the size of a small flashlight, but with a rounded tip that has a bit of a bulbous quality. There are buttons on the side, indicating that it has several settings.
It also has a small battery compartment. It's definitely a high-tech (and high-priced) toy. Bernice presses the on button, and the toy vibrates softly.
Annette looks at the vibrator which Bernice waves around like a wand. Bernice turns the setting up, and the toy begins vibrating at a higher volume.
Bernice moves the vibrator across Annette's chest, causing the journalist to moan loudly. She brings the vibrator down to Annette's pussy, and she rubs it against her clit.
Annette gasps and arches her back. She feels a jolt of excitement run through her.
Bernice immediately pushes the vibrator inside Annette's pussy. Annette gasps and moans as she feels the toy enter her. She's so wet that it slides right in. The vibrations are so strong that the whole thing feels like an orgasm in itself.
Annette moans as she feels the vibrations running through her, "Oh my god, OH MY GOD, oh my god! Ohhhhh, this...is...amazing!" She feels her pussy twitching wildly, and her entire body starts to convulse.
Bernice smiles and whispers, "Let's turn it up a bit."
Annette nods, barely able to form a coherent response. All she can say is, "Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah," in between all the moaning and screaming.
Bernice turns up the vibrator's power, and it becomes quite a bit louder. It's now vibrating so strongly that it can be heard clearly throughout the bedroom.
Thankfully, the room's soundproof.
Annette's whole body is trembling with excitement, and her eyes are rolled back.
Bernice places her hand on Annette's throat, just below her jawline. She gently squeezes and massages Annette's throat.
Annette lets out a muffled moan, and her eyes start rolling back even further. Her lips are quivering.
Bernice leans in and whispers into Annette's ear, "I think it's time you come for me. Right now."
Annette feels a jolt of electricity run through her, and she comes instantly. Her body trembles uncontrollably, and she lets out a loud moan. It's such a powerful orgasm that she feels as if she's about to pass out.
Annette's wet pussy squirt is all over the vibrator and Bernice's hand. Bernice looks down and licks her lips at the sight of how much juices she's elicited from the woman.
Annette's breathing is shaky and weak. Her whole body is trembling, and she can barely speak. Bernice finally takes out the vibrator, and Annette lets out a loud groan.
She's still convulsing. She looks up at Bernice with a mixture of bliss and confusion. Bernice looks right back into her eyes, and a sultry smile appears on her face. She licks the juices off her hand.
Annette's face turns beet red, and she can feel herself getting even wetter.
Bernice commands Annette, "Open up." She takes 2 fingers and brings them up to Annette's lips. The journalist hesitantly opens her mouth, and Bernice gently pushes her fingers inside.
Annette closes her eyes and starts sucking on Bernice's fingers. She tastes her own juices, and the taste is oddly sweet and intoxicating.
Bernice slowly moves her fingers in and out of Annette's mouth, and Annette licks them clean, trying to savor every drop. She's getting hornier by the second. She clearly wants more.
Bernice pulls her fingers out and croons, "Time for your reward."
A few hours later...
It's been a couple of hours since Annette's intense first foray into the world of BDSM. A whole new day has dawned, but it surely doesn't feel that way for Annette. Her eyes slowly open, and she looks up at the ceiling of Bernice's bedroom.
Her vision is a bit blurry and her hands are still handcuffed to the bedpost.
The first thing she notices is the time on the nearby digital clock-which reads 6:00 AM or thereabouts. Then, she sees Bernice laying right beside her. She's fast asleep and breathing deeply. She's even drooling a bit.
It's a surprisingly cute sight. Annette takes a moment to admire Bernice's beauty. She really is quite a sight to behold, even when she's drooling all over her pillow.
Annette tries to recall what happened after the whole...thing with the vibrator. Her memory is a bit foggy. All she remembers is Bernice asking if she's ready for her "reward" and her giving an emphatic "yes" as an answer.
The rest is a blur. She was just...gone. But, the good news is, it looks like they both had a good time, judging from the large amount of dried up fluids coating the sheets.
Bernice's eyes slowly flutter open. She lets out a quiet moan. She turns her head and notices Annette watching her intently. She flashes her a tired, yet playful smile, "Mmmmm...good morning, my dear. Sleep well?"
Annette blushes and says, "Yeah. Good morning, Bernice." She can still feel Bernice's juices drying on her tongue.
Bernice smirks and says, "Wonderful. Now, I suppose you're quite ready to discuss our...agreement, yes?"
Annette looks away, embarrassed, "Um, yeah. Yeah, of course."
Bernice raises an eyebrow and asks, "Something wrong? You don't sound very enthusiastic, dear."
Annette smiles and says, "Oh, no. No. It's just uh...last night was a lot. I just need to process it. It's not a big deal or anything. I'm good, don't worry."
Bernice smiles back, "Of course. That's understandable. Well, I'll go make us some tea. Is chamomile alright?"
Annette nods, and Bernice gets out of bed and puts a simple robe on.
She remembers to remove Annette's handcuffs, and walks out of the room to prepare the tea.
Annette tries to remember if she ever "thanked" Bernice for last night's experience. Probably. Probably not.
It's all still a blur.
She gets out of bed and puts on another robe which Bernice left for her. She then heads downstairs.
She finds Bernice in the kitchen, preparing the tea. She's wearing a silk robe and nothing else.
The smell of the chamomile tea fills the air, and Annette can't help but smile and smell this beautiful aroma again.
Bernice notices Annette and says, "Ah, there you are. Come, sit down," she gestures towards the kitchen table.
Annette does as she's told and sits down.
The tea is hot with steam rising from the cups and aroma filling the room. Bernice takes a light sip and sighs contentedly.
Annette takes an even lighter sip and simply smiles. It's delicious. But a bit too hot.
Bernice calmly says, "Now, let's discuss the matter at hand, shall we?"
Annette nods and says, "Uh...sure?"
Bernice narrows her eyes and asks, "Is something the matter? You seem distracted."
Annette replies, "No, no. It's just...I'm still a bit...tired, y'know? It--it was quite intense."
Bernice nods and says, "Of course. Well, let's get back on track, shall we?"
Annette sips her tea and says, "Yeah, sure."
Bernice continues, "So, as I was saying, our agreement. I'm assuming you still want to go through with it?"
Annette nods and says, "Yeah, of course."
Bernice smiles and says, "Excellent. Now, here's the thing. I'm going to need you to keep this all a secret. No one can know about it. Not a single soul. Not even your closest friends. If anyone finds out, it could ruin my career. Yours too, dear. So, I need you to promise me that you'll keep this between us. Can you do that?"
Annette lightly sighs and says, "Yeah. I promise."
"Hmmmm. Good."
Bernice continues, "Now, I know you're probably wondering what's in it for you, right?"
Annette nods, "Yeah, kinda."
Bernice replies, "Well, I'm willing to teach you everything I know. I'll show you the ropes, so to speak. I'll be your mentor. And in return, you'll be my submissive--"
Annette interjects, "Will you be my sub? Or uh...my dom?"
Bernice chuckles, "Well, I'm willing to play both roles. But I prefer being a dom. I like being in control. You like it too, don't you? I can see it in your eyes."
Annette blushes a bit, "Yeah, I do."
Bernice asks, "So, what do you say? Do we have a deal or not?"
Annette thinks for a moment and then nods, "Yes. We do."
Bernice finishes the rest of her tea and stands up, "Wonderful! Now, I'll just get some...contracts for us to sign. Don't worry, it's all under tight lock-and-key. Besides, you're not my first. I know what I'm doing. Just relax and enjoy the ride. I'll be right back."
She winks at Annette and walks out of the kitchen. Annette simply stares at her cup of tea. She's slowly beginning to process everything that's happened.
Annette sits there for a moment, thinking about what she just agreed to. There's no room for doubt now, though. She's made her decision. It's what she's always wanted. She's going to learn everything she can from Bernice. She's going to be the best she can be.
Or the best there ever was, perhaps. She knows it. She feels it. She can't wait to get started. She just hopes she can keep up with Bernice.
She's...quite a tough act to follow.
Just as Annette finishes gulping the last of her tea and accidently spilling some on her robe, Bernice comes back into the kitchen, carrying a a single piece of paper.
She sets it down on the table and says, "Alright, here we are. This is the contract. It's all quite simple and straightforward. Just read it over and sign at the bottom."
Annette takes the paper and reads it over. It's pretty much exactly what Bernice said it would be.
Annette raises her eyebrows and says, "Wow, you weren't kidding. This is all very...professional."
Bernice laughs and says, "Of course. I take my work VERY seriously. Also, I know that look. Don't worry, as long you don't tell anyone, our secret is safe."
Annette chuckles and says, "Yeah, of course. I won't tell a soul. I promise."
Bernice smiles and says, "Good. Now, sign on the dotted line, and we'll get started."
Annette grabs a nearby pen, clicks it open, and prepares to sign on the dotted line. Just as the pen is about to meet the page, Bernice grabs her wrist and stops her.
She leans in close and whispers, "You have to really want it. Do you REALLY want this, Annette?"
Annette swallows hard, looks into Bernice's eyes and says, "Yes. I...I want it."
Bernice, still unsatisfied with Annette's answer, tightens her grip, sharpens her gaze, and says again, "Say it like you mean it."
Annette, with a bit more assertion in her voice, says, "Yes. YES, I do!"
Bernice lets go of Annette's wrist and says, "Good. Now, sign."
Annette signs the contract and hands it back to Bernice. She looks pleased and says, "Excellent. Now, we begin."
Annette asks, "So, what happens next?"
Bernice chuckles and says, "Well, first things first. Disrobe."
Annette blushes and her eyes widen, "Oh, uh...OK." She takes off her robe, revealing her naked body once again.
Bernice smiles and says, "Now, kneel before me."
Annette does as she's told and kneels before Bernice. Bernice places her hand on Annette's head and runs her fingers through her hair. She says, "I'm going to enjoy teaching you everything I've come to learn these past few years. Will you enjoy yourself as much as I will?"
Annette nods and says, "Yes, mistress."
Bernice says, "Now, let's get you cleaned up. I'll draw us a bath. Follow me."
Annette follows Bernice into one of the bathrooms. It's quite large, with a big tub in the center. Bernice turns on the faucet and starts filling the tub with hot water. She adds some bath salts. The water is soon filled with foamy bubbles, and the scent of lavender fills the air.
Lastly, she removes her robe and steps into the tub. She seductively beckons Annette to join her.
At first, Annette hesitates.
However, Bernice shoots her a stern glance, and Annette enters the tub and takes a seat. The water is warm and inviting, and the bubbles tickle her skin. She can't help but giggle a bit.
Bernice grabs a sponge and gives it to Annette. She commands, "Wash me."
Annette nods and begins washing Bernice's body. She starts with her neck, then moves down to her shoulders, and finally to her breasts. She can't help but stop and admire Bernice's voluptuous figure.
In a moment of impromptu horniness, she guides the sponge all the way down to Bernice's pussy and gently rubs it. Bernice closes her eyes and moans softly. She huskily says, "Eager. Spontaneous. I like that."
Annette continues to wash Bernice's body and gently touch her erogenous spots, while Bernice moans in pleasure. She says, "My turn."
She takes a new sponge and begins washing Annette's body. She starts with her shoulders, then moves down to her breasts, and lastly to her pussy. She inserts her fingers deep inside Annette's pussy and says, "Let's see just how wet you really are."
Annette gasps and moans as Bernice fingers her. She can feel herself getting even more aroused by the second. She can't help but moan louder and louder.
After a while, Bernice says, "That's enough. Now, let's dry off."
They both get out of the tub and dry each other off. Annette eagerly scrubs Bernice's body with the towel.
Bernice quickly runs the towel over Annette's body a few times.
They return to the bedroom and sit on the bed. Bernice then says, "You've done quite well so far, Annette. But we're just getting started."
Annette smiles, "Oh, I can't wait."
Bernice says, "Now, it's time we both attend to our professional lives. And remember, NOT a word about this to anyone. Especially on social media- I don't care how much 'anonymity' they claim to have on offer."
Annette nods and says, "Of course. I...I...understand."
Bernice is unconvinced yet again.
So, she grabs hold of Annette and draws her closer to the point where they can both feel each other's breath on their faces, "Do you? Do you really? Because I don't think you do. Convince me that you can keep this a secret. Prove to me that you're worthy of my trust. Show me that you're ready to take the next step."
Annette's heart is racing. She can barely breathe. She can't help but get excited. Aroused, even.
So, without hesitating or saying a single word, she leans in and kisses Bernice. Their lips lock together, and they passionately kiss each other. They both moan as their tongues dance around in each other's mouths, and they both feel a jolt of electricity run through their bodies.
After a while, they break apart, and Annette says, "I--I'm ready."
Bernice smirks and says, "You need to learn to be assertive, Annette. No ums or uhs or pausing. You NEED to be confident in what you say and do. Understand?"
Annette nods, "Yes, mistress."
Bernice says, "Good. Now, get dressed and head to work. And, remember, not a word to anyone. Not even your closest friends. OUR secret stays a secret. Got it?"
Annette nods and says, "Yes, mistress. Absolutely."
Bernice approvingly says, "Good. Good. Now, get going."
Bernice adds, "Besides, you aren't my first...and you certainly won't be my last. But, I feel you're quite special. So, I'm sure you'll learn a lot from me. Provided you pay attention, of course."
Annette's curiosity gets the best of her and she sheepishly asks about Bernice's other "clientele".
Bernice sighs deeply and shakes her head, "I told you before. I DON'T discuss other clients. However, I will say this- YOU are special. They value their secrecy, as I'm sure you now do. Now, go on. Get to work. And, not another word about this ever again. Understood?"
Annette looks a bit dejected, "Yes, mistress."
Still, on the back of her mind, Annette can't help but wonder who else Bernice might have had as a "client".
She wonders if they're someone she knows. Someone she's met before. Someone she's interviewed for a story. She wonders if they're someone powerful and well-connected in this town? All this and many more questions buzzing around her mind like a swarm of bees.
However, she knows better than to ask them. She knows better than to even think about them. She knows that if she does, it could ruin everything.
So, she keeps her mouth shut and her thoughts to herself. For now. Those swarming "thought-bees" weren't going to be chased away anytime soon. In the meantime, she had to focus on the task at hand. She had to focus on her job.
She had to focus on making sure her interview with Bernice is well-received.
She also had to focus on learning everything she can from Bernice. Who knows, maybe an opportunity for further snooping into Bernice's "clientele" might present itself on one of these special nights?
The very thought of that makes Annette nearly choke on her own spit while exciting her at the same time.
She coughs and sputters, but manages to compose herself. She finishes getting ready for work. She puts on her clothes, grabs her bag, and heads out the door.
Bernice kisses Annette on the cheek and says, "Have a good day, dear. I'll see you soon."
Annette waves back and says, "Yep, see you." She walks out the door and heads to work. She has a lot to think about. A lot to process. She can't help but wonder what's going to happen next.
However, none of Plaintry's residents (mortals in particular) could even begin to comprehend what comes next.
Chapter 6: Authorization
A new day dawns in the town of Plaintry. As the sun rises over this laid-back town, a thin blanket of fog lingers over the town. It's almost as if the town is shrouded in a mystery slowly being unveiled.
As mortals awaken and prepare for their day in the sun, Kindred fall asleep and are taken in by a black cloud of lengthy slumber.
Annette stops home to freshen up a bit and change her clothes to something a bit more formal and professional-looking. She puts on a buttoned-up blouse, a pencil skirt, and some heels. She applies a bit of makeup and fixes her hair.
She takes a deep breath, and heads to the Nimbus office.
As she's heading to the office, she receives a text message from Maya: "Heeeeey! wanna grab sum coffee?" The word "coffee" is supplanted by the coffee emoji as well as a croissant emoji. Yummy.
She replies with a thumbs-up emoji.
A few minutes pass and the 2 meet at their usual spot and order the usual- coffee, cream, extra sugar for Maya; black for Annette. They take a seat at a corner table in the café, and Maya starts talking Annette's ear off, as she usually does.
Annette just listens and smiles and nods her head at everything her friend is saying, sipping on her morning brew. She's a great friend. She always listens.
But, deep down, Annette still can't get last night out of her head.
The kinds of secrets Bernice is sitting on. It could bring down some real powerful folk, or better yet, make them indebted to you!
However, Annette knows she's sworn to secrecy on that subject. She signed a contract and all that- so she can't breathe a single word to Maya, even if she wants to.
However, she's never kept secrets from her best friend before.
Maya goes on about how her date with Lucile went last night, "I just know you're gonna LOVE meeting her Annette! She's so sweet and kind, and funny and smart and sexy and just...EVERYTHING!" Maya's eyes brighten up just at the mention of Lucile's name.
Annette laughs and says, "Sounds like you've got a real winner here, Maya! So, when do we all meet?"
Maya sighs and says, "Well...actually, I'm not so sure. You see, she's got this new job..." she trails off a bit at this point.
Annette notices that and interrupts, "So, a new job? That's good, right?"
Maya nods and says, "Well...um...it's just not quite as simple as that."
Annette cocks an eyebrow, "Oh?"
Maya sighs and says, "It probably means we won't be seeing each other as much."
Maya bangs the table and nearly raises her voice, "I just met her! It's not fair! I don't wanna lose her so quickly..."
To avoid causing a scene or getting kicked out of the joint, Annette calms her friend down, "Whoa. Hey, hey. It's OK, Maya. Everything's gonna be alright. Just...calm down, OK?"
Maya sniffles and nods her head. She takes a few moments to calm down before she starts speaking normally again.
After Maya finishes venting and having a few more sips of her coffee, she takes a deep breath, and begins to calm herself, "Well...what do you think about that, Annette? About her having this new job and all."
Annette is quite stumped by the question.
She really can't give an answer as she's not too sure about the specifics, so she gives a vague answer instead, "Eh, well...she probably needs the money, y'know? Besides, it's not like she's running away or anything like that."
Maya giggles and says, "Heh, yeah. Good point. Still, it sucks that we won't be seeing each other so often."
Annette reassures Maya, "Well, hey! Just because she has a new job doesn't mean WE can't still spend some time together, right?"
Maya politely smiles, but Annette can see a hint of sadness in her friend's eyes, "Yeah, I suppose."
Annette pats Maya's back, "Besides, she'll have more money and more free time when she's done, right?"
Maya stares emptily into her coffee, "I just can't believe how quickly it's all happening."
Annette asks, "Quickly?"
Maya continues, "I just mean, like...it seems so...I dunno, fast. We met at the gala, really hit it off, had a great time, and now that she's got this new job--it seems like it's all going by so quickly."
Annette can see that her friend is genuinely troubled about the matter at hand. She wants to say something to lift up Maya's spirits, but what exactly?
It's clear that Maya's and Lucile's love isn't mere infatuation; it's genuine. It's deep, it's intense, and it's very much real.
It's just like they always say: "Love at first sight." It's a classic for a reason.
"Look Maya, if she means so much to you, you have to tell her how you feel. Like, how you REALLY feel. You need to make sure she knows that. And, you need to do it as soon as possible. Got it? How about we drop by her place right now?"
Maya stares into space for a few seconds. Annette wonders if her advice sunk in and resonated. Or backfired?
Maya simply shakes her head in the negative and says, "Nah, we can't. She's sleeping now and I don't wanna disturb her. But...I appreciate you listening, Annette. I know I can count on you, even in these tough times. I'll just have to tell her later tonight or something."
Maya checks her phone to see the time and adds, "Wow! Is that the time? We better get to work. C'mon, let's bounce!"
Annette nods her head in agreement, finishes up her coffee, and leaves a tip.
She then heads out the café and makes her way towards the Nimbus office with Maya by her side.
The duo enter the building and step into the main office. Same old, same old. The usual bustling (and kinda stuffy) atmosphere welcomes them as they go about their business for the day.
Annette can't stop thinking about last night.
Even Maya can't stop thinking about how amazing last night with Lucile went, even if her new job means they won't be spending much time together. She just can't help it- she's head-over-heels!
Annette asks, "Hey, Maya?"
"Yeah?"
"You OK?"
"Yeah, you?"
Annette nods, "Yeah."
With nothing much to do, Maya's mind once again wanders to her usual obsession- vampires. She starts thinking about the mysterious world that surrounds these creatures of the night, and she wonders what it must be like to "live" among them.
What's it like to be a vampire and wield power over the (usually unsuspecting) mortals of this town?
The thought of that kind of power repulses Maya. She's more curious about what vampires would hypothetically do with their infinite time on this finite planet...
Would they do good? Would they do evil? Would they spend their eternity doing nothing, or would they pursue some grandiose purpose of their own design?
Would they have families? Children? Friends?
Would they care? Would they love and be loved in return? Would they hate? Would they kill?
Would they seek out the blood of other vampires, what would that even be like?
All this and many more questions impatiently swirl around Maya's mind. Her thoughts are interrupted, however, upon hearing someone call from behind.
Annette notices the distracted look on her friend's face and decides to break her out of her trance, "Hey, uh...you doing good? After, y'know."
Maya is immediately reminded of how terrible she felt yesterday morning. Worse yet, she forgot to set an appointment with Dr. Willie!
Maya facepalms and sighs, "Oh, I completely forgot to make an appointment with Dr. Willie!"
Annette simply replies, "Oh, you shouldn't forget such things, Maya."
"I know, I know. It's just that I've been so...caught up with other stuff lately."
Annette coyly replies, "Heh, haven't we all..." She goes back to typing on her computer and Maya starts to think about Lucile; thinking about how much she really, REALLY likes her.
Thinking about how much she needs to tell her.
But, there's no way to do that, is there? She's asleep now, and it wouldn't be good manners to disturb her.
That kinda schtick only works in Hollywood, and this is Plaintry.
However, maybe there's a way to tell Lucile without going over to her place and singing a cheesy love song out of sync at the top of your lungs. So, Maya grabs her phone and starts sending Lucile some text messages.
She's not too sure if she's awake or not, but it's worth a shot, right?
Annette continues typing away on her computer, clearly in her own space and it's best that she's undisturbed.
Plus, she has work to do, too. As she types, she can't stop thinking about Bernice and about what she's gotten herself into. She knows the risks involved. But, she knows it's worth it, too.
She's also got plans to get Bernice to reveal a bit about her other clientele, but that's gonna take a lot of delicate persuasion.
So, Annette opts for the long game. But there's also some excitement and a chance for her to grow and explore new horizons.
Maya sends the first text: "Heyyyyy! Hope u slept well. Luv'd last night. Wanna do it again. U free this evening???" followed by multiple pleading face emojis.
Maya takes a moment to consider what to write next: "Just wanna spend more time w/ u. Kisses. Xoxo."
She puts her phone down and stares at her computer screen, deep in thought.
As a lifestyle writer for Nimbus, Maya's writing isn't the most exciting, but it's what gets the food on the table and rent paid. Her writing is simple, almost banal. Hair coloring, summer outfits, local happenings, wardrobes of local wanna-be celebs, and all the usual small-town stuff.
She doesn't have the greatest editor in the world, but it doesn't make a difference either way.
In addition, going on long-winded rants about vampires does earn one a certain rep in this town- village idiot, to put it bluntly. There was this chick Maya was dating a year ago named Kaitlyn who was not at all into that shit.
Maya would talk endlessly about vampires and all the other supernatural nonsense while Kaitlyn would listen, nodding her head and pretending to understand, but never really saying anything.
Long story short, they never got to first-base. Kaitlyn, in turn, posted a lengthy video on Facebook absolutely mocking Maya for the town to see (or at least the part still lurking on Facebook at odd hours of the day).
It was a low blow and definitely hurt Maya's feelings. But, it's not like she ever actually had a shot with Kaitlyn, anyway.
Until Lucile came along. The 2 hit it off at the gala and had some real capital-F Fun. Even if the relationship is still quite new, it already feels like it's blossoming into something special. Only time will tell.
And, it had a lot to tell.
As for Annette, she's deep in her own thoughts. Her mind is still obsessed with Bernice's other "clients". What exactly is Plaintry's next possible Mayor capable of? How many people does she have wrapped around her little finger?
How many people has she "broken"? Blackmailed, even?
Is that how a person like Bernice was able to ascend the ladder of politics? Annette wanted to know more. She wanted to know EVERYTHING.
The only way to get answers is to find a way to snoop into Bernice's "private" affairs. Easier said than done, but Bernice had taken a special "liking" to Annette. Maybe that could be used to the latter's advantage?
In the meantime, all she could do was hope the interview will be a big hit among folk in the town and beyond.
Annette joined Nimbus at around the same time as Maya. They'd been great friends since then and gotten quite close over the years. But, her main focus is on her job. She's more interested in what she does than who she does.
It's just her thing. And, it's the probably a good way to make money in a small town like Plaintry.
Lots of older folk still like their magazines not on a tablet or phone, but on hardcopy. It's a dying industry, but a semi-profitable one nonetheless.
Annette isn't too concerned about the the industry's future and has no short-term plans to move anywhere else.
Annette's writings consist mainly of stories about local personalities. Before the interview with Bernice drops, Annette was well-known for covering the tumultuous love-life of local "celebs" Tyler and Sally.
High school sweethearts who've dated on and off for years, broken up and come back together too many times to count, and postponed engagements at nearly every opportunity.
A great source of "content" for Annette. Tyler the football jock and Sally the cheerleader, both of them, but not together. Both of them, but not at the same time. Both of them, but not for each other.
Both of them, but with a different date.
The whole thing is a total soap-opera-esque train wreck. One that pays well. And, Annette knows that the best way to get people talking is to write about stuff they already blabber about.
Secrets have always been a sort of obsession for Annette. Her parents were the first. They divorced when Annette was a child and never really spoke to each other ever again.
They went on to marry 2 other people, all the while not making contact with their daughter. So, she was left all alone in the world.
That's when she became obsessed. She wanted to know the secrets behind their lives. Where the money came from, the houses, the cars, the clothes, the expensive vacations. The whole thing was a mystery and Annette couldn't let it rest.
It took a lot of digging and a lot of effort, but she uncovered most of the truth.
It was all a scam.
Daddy dearest was into good old fashioned Ponzi schemes. He was always bragging about his next big venture and how he was going to make it big. But, it was all lies.
Mommy dearest was into small-time Multi-Level Marketing schemes run out of the dining room.
All of that money and fancy cars, they didn't come from nothing. Until you fall into a hole you dug for another. The seemingly happy family lost everything in an instant. Like a slo-mo playback of a "Gone in 60 Seconds" clip.
No more vacations, no houses, no money. And, no happily married parents.
Not anymore.
It was the greatest source of guilt Annette has ever felt. The worst part was that they were always so nice to her and never seemed to have any ill will towards her.
Did they behave the same towards their "marks"? Probably.
Annette's writings about the upper crust have always been an outlet for her to hold on to that idealized version of the American Dream. It's the reason why she joined Nimbus in the first place.
Annette is also very much in tune with the fact that she's a bit of a "social outsider". She's always been a bit awkward, never really fitting in.
The "outsiders" have always been the ones who have to try the hardest and make the most of their life.
And that's what she's doing. She's making the most of it. But, she's never let go of her obsession with the people's secrets and what makes 'em tick.
So, she's going to take advantage of any newfound fame after the interview while also snooping around Bernice's "clients".
Annette knows the risks involved. If Bernice finds out that something's amiss, she'll surely take drastic measures to silence her. Maybe that's a bit hyperbolic, but still. It's better to be safe than sorry, right?
While Annette's life was filled with vacations to far off places, lavish dinners, and all the trappings of relative wealth and comfort, Maya's was...different.
She grew up in orphanages, tossed from foster home to foster home. She never knew her biological parents and was never adopted.
The closest she had to "family" were her friends from school (and later, college, albeit to a lesser extent)- her only real constant. They remained close, but contact faded as the years passed.
The usual reasons- family, boredom, work, distance, etc.
As for Maya's obsession with vampires, well, it was the internet. Obviously. After yet another failed attempt at a romantic connection, Maya had enough and decided to start looking for answers online.
That's where she stumbled onto an internet forum of people from all over the world who claimed to have had "encounters" (mostly sexual ones) with what they believed to be vampires.
All of this intrigued Maya, but it didn't quite fill the void she was feeling at the time. However, she decided to keep looking into it.
And, the more she looked, the more she found. The more she found, the more she wanted to know. And, the more she wanted to know, the more she found. It was an odd cycle of curiosity, to say the least.
Curiosity that certain Kindred in Plaintry took a disliking to. Hence why Dylan, the Thin Blood was told to keep tabs on Maya (and to a lesser extent, Annette).
The Masquerade was already weakened due to certain...decisions by the town's former Prince- Geoffrey of Clan Toreador.
Embraces didn't really need to be authorized through the proper channels anymore, the Nosferatu had a significant presence above ground, Masquerade breaches were brushed off, use of electronic communications technology by Kindred was rampant, and on and on.
That's when the Ivory Tower came knocking at the front door of Plaintry. And they didn't like what they were seeing. It started with the exiling and Blood Hunting of every Nosferatu in town- courtesy of Simon, Elder of Clan Lasombra.
The Nosferatu were blamed as being the number 1 violators of the Masquerade and associated Traditions. A gross misjudgement, but who was gonna say anything to a couple of Archons who could call knives down from the sky?
The Nosferatu didn't take it lying down, but rather than risk an all out war on the streets of Plaintry, many skipped town. Scurrying away into greener pastures (or in their case, danker sewers).
However, a few Crawlers stuck around in hopes of finding a way to reclaim their status in the town, make things right, and explain their side of the story. It backfired. And, it only got worse from there.
Much worse.
Next up was Geoffrey and by extension his Clan, Toreador. However, certain shrewd Aesthetes cut a deal with the Camarilla, fearing they'd meet a similar fate as the Nosferatu. Geoffrey alone gets the sword and every Toreador skips town, free of charge.
They could even take some of their "masterpieces" with them, if they so desired. In turn, Geoffrey would be handed over to the Sheriff to meet Final Death.
Princes do tend to surround themselves with loyal "types" (yes men and ass kissers, mostly). Geoffrey surrounded himself with everyone and everything that "pleased my eye" (his words) and that included several of his own Childer and numerous Ghouls.
To be delivered to the executioner by your own Childe- now that's a special kind of betrayal; almost poetic in a way that certain Toreadors could appreciate.
But, they say a Prince is only as good as the people they have in their circle, right?
Well, Geoffrey didn't exactly have a choice in the matter. The Toreador Elders had only one goal in mind- self preservation.
That meant they needed a fall guy. And, who better than the Prince himself? So, they handed the poor bastard over to the Ivory Tower on a silver platter, hoping to save their own hides in the process.
Heh, no such luck. The Elders were punished as well. But, they were spared Final Death, and sent into a form of exile. However, their Ghouls were mercilessly killed, most of their "masterpieces" destroyed, and their wealth and property confiscated.
Examples had to be made, precedents had to be set. The Camarilla don't like it when you betray them and violate the Traditions.
The remaining Toreador got the message. Loud and clear. No need to ask twice. They got in their cars, hitched rides, and whatever other means they could find, and fled town. Their only consolation?
Not having a psychotic Malkavian Sheriff lop your head off.
It's the little things.
However, they would never be welcome back to Plaintry, at least not for another...200 years.
And even that is a conservative estimate.
It was at this time that a whole convoy of Ravnos was passing through town, looking for a safe haven. Their Clan's Curse necessitated their nomadic lifestyle.
They knew about Plaintry's...recent events, but decided to stop over anyway.
Meanwhile, with the Prince dusted, a hunt for a replacement was on. The remaining Clans- Tremere, Ventrue, Lasombra, and (to a certain extent) Thin-Bloods didn't have a shot.
The Tremere were mostly shut-ins performing Thaumaturgical experiments and other inquiries into the nature of the Blood.
The Ventrue mostly saw Plaintry as a place to own extra property or vacation for a week.
The Lasombra had their own thing going on with the Catholic Church (long story) and Simon, Elder of Clan Lasombra had bigger plans, so he wasn't a contender.
Finally, the Thin-Bloods were too weak to run the town on their own and would never be acknowledged by the rest as True Kindred (tm).
So, what was left? Caravans worth of Ravnos to pick from.
Why not, right?
"Just don't sit in one place too long and you'll be alright." No seriously, this is what an Ivory Tower rep told Lucas- the current Prince of Plaintry. He thought it was a joke, but the Ivory Tower rep wasn't laughing.
That's when he realized they weren't joking around.
Oh, boy.
The Ravnos were welcomed with open arms. It's just that those open arms had a small asterisk tattooed on them.
The Camarilla couldn't afford to leave Plaintry without a Prince. It was an essential node in the Blood Trade of the Northeastern United States.
It was a waypoint for various couriers going east, west, north, south, you name it.
The Blood HAD TO go through Plaintry. Period. End of discussion. No other way.
Other routes were crawling with Anarchs or Second Inquisition. So, they had to make do with what they had.
While Lucas wasn't threatened into the position per se, he knew what would happen if he declined. Clan Curse or not, never say "no" to the Ivory Tower.
Especially when they ask "nicely".
Not only that, but the Ravnos were in need of a new home.
They were doomed to wander eternally, but having an anchor point to come back to every once in awhile would be nice.
So, Lucas more or less agreed to take up the position of Prince, despite his reluctance and reservations. He was nominated because he had experience leading his merry band of Wanderers throughout much of the East Coast and a bit of the Midwest.
That kind of experience is invaluable. Even the Ivory Tower recognized it. So, they picked him. And, he accepted. Begrudgingly, but he accepted nonetheless.
Besides, the Ravnos had experience fighting the Second Inquisition on the road, something the other Clans in Plaintry were lacking in. But, Prince Lucas isn't a fool; he knows better than to get too comfortable in a place like this.
Eyes were always on you and ears were always listening. It was only a matter of time before someone started making plans.
And, that's exactly what's going on.
However, the first thing the new Prince outlawed (well not outlawed per se, but clamped down on) was electronic communications; the Second Inquisition had a system set up where they'd scan the internet for any interesting keywords, like "vampire", "blood", "kine" and so forth.
This list of keywords rotated every 72 hours or so.
Once a match was found, they'd use it as a means to track down Kindred; unmarked black vans, military-grade equipment, incendiary rounds, and wooden stakes anointed with every "holy" liquid known to man.
Those were just SOME of the tools at the SI's disposal. And, Prince Lucas wasn't too keen on having that happen in his town. So, he "banned" the use of certain internet-based communications by Kindred and any Ghouls serving them.
The total comms blackout necessitated the use of couriers to transport vital and sensitive info to other Domains, including other Kindred cities (Camarilla-controlled cities, that is).
It was horribly cumbersome, but it kept everyone safe. It also kept the Ivory Tower happy.
However, the SI was a bit trickier to deal with.
The couriers weren't exactly Amazon Prime: Blood Express. They weren't the USPS either. Most couriers found themselves in such a job due to circumstances outside their control.
For instance, Kindred who'd fallen in with the "wrong crowd".
Or those who had been Embraced without any prior authorization- their Sire was usually sent into Torpor or had their free trial of immortality come to an end.
The Avetrol Childer were given a beaten up jalopy (or a dingy moped if they preferred), a satchel of USBs, a handwritten address and told to get moving. Those who survived made good money and could probably end up paying their debts to the Ivory Tower and even ascending its ranks.
Still, let's not get ahead of ourselves.
However, those who got caught...
Caught not by some overzealous hunter decked out in religious iconography and smelling of garlic, but rather, caught in the middle of some petulant power struggle between Kindred.
The worst part was that Kindred (Princes in particular) have no qualms about taking out the messenger (or using some facet of Blood Sorcery to turn them into a bomb).
So, many couriers were totally ash while still holding on to their satchels, briefcases, and laptop bags.
To the Ivory Tower, all Kindred are replaceable (except for those at the tippy-top of the Ivory Tower, of course), so they don't care too much about what happens to them.
To many local Princes, Kindred are expendable pawns on a 5D chess board, so they don't care too much either.
Other Kindred couriers were often accused by a loophole-exploiting Prince of some or the other crime (crime according to Kindred society, that is).
"Crimes" like feeding in the wrong Domain or on the wrong person or even in the wrong way.
The "right" way being whatever the Prince wants it to be. So, the "offenders" would end up with 2 choices...
Decollation or Vampire FedEx.
Hobson's choice when you think about it. Still, some Kindred were rumored to say, "fuck you," and have their heads separated from their bodies (others were just left out in the sun to burn). Can't blame 'em, honestly.
Better than having to deal with all that other bullshit.
However, even though couriers didn't need to worry about being attacked by the Second Inquisition, they still had to worry about running afoul of local Kindred. Especially ones with power, resources, and connections.
But, it was a risk they were willing to take. It was better than the alternative.
Abandoning your post wasn't a choice either. Kindred have eyes and ears everywhere. Most you could do was survive a few hours before being dragged back to the local Prince and getting punished (Kindred aren't too big on the whole second chances thing).
If you were lucky, it'd be a quick Final Death.
If not, well, it was a long smoldering out in the sun, accompanied by torrents of screams and swear words. The only "real" way to escape was to leave the country entirely.
Which for many Kindred is out of the question for reasons that are painfully obvious.
Back in the real world, Annette is typing away on her computer while Maya keeps scrolling through Pinterest, looking for ideas for her next article. She's been doing this for a while now and is starting to get bored.
Maya checks her phone to see if Lucile has replied to her text messages. Nothing. No reply. Nada.
Is this what the kids refer to as "ghosting" nowadays?
Maya thinks to herself, "Damn, that's some crazy ass insomnia that Lucile's got."
Heh, yeah, "insomnia".
Maya's and Annette's boss Edgar walks in and starts talking to the duo, "Hey ladies, how's it going?"
Maya casually replies, "Oh, y'know. Same old, same old."
Edgar asks, "Any good ideas for your next article, Maya?"
Maya shrugs, "Eh, not really. I'm still working on it."
Edgar then reminds her, "Well, you better hurry up. We've got a deadline coming up soon."
Maya nods her head, "Yeah, yeah, I know. I've just been...going through a lot these past few days."
Edgar places a hand on Maya's shoulder and asks out of genuine concern, "Is everything OK, Maya? You seem a bit off today."
Maya sighs, "Yeah, I'm fine. Just a bit tired, that's all."
Edgar replies, "Well, don't overwork it."
He pauses for a moment and continues, "Look, it's already 3 PM, why don't you head on home, huh? But I need something in 2 days."
Maya smiles, "Thanks, Edgar. I appreciate it. Sure, I'll get you something."
Edgar adds, "No problem. Nimbus is glad to have you, Maya. We might be going through a rough patch, but we're gonna make it through."
He turns to Annette, "Thanks to Annette here, we might actually do a whole lot more than just 'make it through'. I got a feeling in my gut that this interview with Bernice is gonna be a hit. We already got a cover design for our 400th issue. And, it's gonna be a big one."
Annette blushes, "Aww, thanks, Edgar. That means a lot to me."
Edgar warmly smiles, "You deserve it, Annette."
Maya turns off her computer and gets up from her desk, "Well, I better get going. Thanks again, Edgar. See you tomorrow, Annette."
Annette nods, "See ya!"
Maya leaves the office and heads out.
She decides to go for a walk in the park to clear her mind and get some fresh air. It's a nice afternoon outside and the weather seems perfect.
The sun is shining brightly overhead making sure she doesn't feel bad after leaving work early during such an important week. The birds are chirping happily, and there's a slight breeze in the air.
It's almost like it's a sign from above that things are going to get better.
Maya takes a deep breath and exhales slowly. She feels a sense of calm wash over her as she walks through the park.
Still no reply from Lucile. It's best to give her some space, Maya thinks. After all, it's not like she's got anything better to do.
Might as well spend the rest of the day relaxing.
Maybe watch a movie or 2? Catch up on some K-Dramas?
Maybe play some video games?
Hmmm, all of the above! Maybe?
Maya heads back to her apartment, and finds some mail on her front door. It's from the landlady. Great. Just great. Maya sighs, grunts, and angrily rips open the letter.
Yep, she's behind on her rent for the past few weeks.
As Maya's employer, Nimbus loves peddling the old line about how they're all one giant, happy family. One giant, happy family paying you sub minimum wage. She can't help but laugh at the absurdity of it all.
The landlord's threatening to evict her if she doesn't pay up.
Maya will request a little more time to scrounge up the cash. She knows she'll be able to do it, eventually. Probably. Hopefully.
In the meantime, she decides to go inside and plump herself down on the couch. Maya grabs the remote and turns on the TV.
The first thing she sees is an ad for some new vampire movie.
Targeted ads...
She sighs, laughs, and changes the channel. She flips through a few more channels before deciding to re-watch "Julie and Julia".
Maya decides to grab a tall drink of OJ from the fridge. She takes a sip and leans back into the couch.
She tries to relax and enjoy the movie, but her mind keeps wandering. She can't stop thinking about Lucile. And, what happened last night.
Maya wonders if she should send another text message. She, however, decides against it and turns up the volume on the TV.
She puts her feet up on the coffee table and leans back into the couch.
She watches the movie for a while and then falls asleep towards the end. Maya wakes up a few hours later and looks at the clock.
She looks at the TV. It's halfway through "Shrek".
Autoplay must be having a stroke, to go from "Julie and Julia" to "Shrek". Maya groans and gets up from the couch.
She walks over to the kitchen and grabs a glass of water. She takes a sip and then goes back to the living room. She sits down on the couch and switches to something better.
"Hmmm, let's see...'Nacho Libre'. Maybe? 'The Twilight Saga: Breaking Dawn Part 1'. Seriously? Ha ha! 'Vertigo', nah, already seen it. 'The Conjuring'...mmmmm, probably?"
The indecisiveness goes on for a few minutes before Maya finally decides to check out the TV shows. Ah, "[Scrubs]"
The display reads, "Last Watched: 1 Year Ago". Sheesh. Might as well continue where she left off.
Maya presses play and settles back into the couch.
Maya can't help but slightly bop her head at the intro song- it's...catchy. As the episode progresses, Maya finds herself getting more and more invested in the story. She's always had a soft spot for medical dramas.
They're just so interesting to watch. And, it helps that the cast is pretty damn good too.
As the end credits for the episode roll around, Maya feels a bit peckish. She struggles to get up from the couch and eventually makes her way over to the kitchen. She opens the fridge and looks inside.
There's not much food left. Shame there's no leftover lasagna.
Ham sandwich it is, then. Maya grabs a slice of bread and slaps some ham between the 2 slices. Ah shit, mustard's expired by 2 months. Ketchup? Nah, empty. Relish? Not in the mood.
Mayo? Ew. Maybe it was considered "mayo" at one point, now it just looks like...well...
What's that? Oh, packets of oregano. Maya tears open the packets and squeezes its meager contents out onto the ham sandwich. She takes a bite and chews.
Hey, it's pretty good!
Maya takes her meal and goes back to the couch.
She turns on the TV and watches a few more episodes of "[Scrubs]".
6 PM. Sun's not down yet, but it's getting there. She gets up and stretches for a while. She takes her crumb-filled plate and throws it in the sink. She'll get to washing it later. She goes to the bathroom and brushes her teeth.
Maya goes to her bedroom and changes into a pair of worn-out shorts and a tank-top with a few holes in it.
She's not expecting any visitors, so it's all good. She lets her red hair down and shakes it out.
She goes back to the living room and plops down on the couch once again. That's enough medical dramas for the day.
She flips to the news channel.
Financial stuff. Boring. Stock Markets? Ugh.
Hey, wait just a damn second. Vespire Inc.?! The same "company" at the Froco Building? Maya furrows her brow and turns up the volume.
A reporter is talking about the company and how they've been secretly buying up land all over Plaintry and the surrounding areas.
Apparently, they're planning on building a huge office complex right in the middle of Plaintry.
So much for the "secretly" part...
The reporter goes on to talk about how these plans were leaked all over the web and that it's been an issue for years now. Maya gets a bad feeling about the whole thing.
She recalls the day she got kicked out by that big scary dude when she was snooping around what appeared to be Vespire's "offices".
She wonders if what was going on in that dingy room had anything to do with plans of expansion. If so, she could probably be onto something big here. But without any tangible evidence, there's no way anyone would listen to her.
That, and her rep in this town already took a huge hit because of her obsession with vampires.
In any case, she's gonna need something convincing. She's also gotta find someone sympathetic to her. Definitely not Annette. Sure, she's Maya's BFF, but even BFFs got limits.
And, besides, Annette has got enough on her plate right now.
So, who's left? Hmmmmmmm.
Of course! Lucile!
But will that jeopardize their blooming relationship? It's really, truly special and Maya doesn't feel right about risking it. No, no, no. It's the first time (in a long time) that she feels she's found love (at first sight).
It's something she's been looking for after a series of bad dates. And now that she's found it, she's not gonna risk losing it.
Still, the curiosity is clawing away at the back of her mind like an overzealous kitten.
Anyways, Maya decides to look more into the leaked Vespire documents. It got leaked on Reddit. Go figure. She eventually finds copies of the PDFs on a subreddit.
It's a thread with SEVERAL unhinged posts from someone named "JimBdo_VKM". They claim that they're "special". Special in that they know "stuff" about "stuff".
Maya rolls her eyes, shakes her head, and waits as the download finishes. 12 MB. Pretty big for just 2 PDFs. She looks at the date of the post- It was posted last night. Crazy.
Most of the first document is typical corporate-speak and utterly boring as a result. Plenty of colorful charts, graphs, and other assorted things. Some of it's gibberish (to her, at least), but Maya gets the general idea.
The second document is a bit more interesting, however. It details the acquisition of land in several different counties throughout the region, including Plaintry.
A lot of underhanded business practices were utilized in order to acquire the land. However, one thing does stick out as a bit suspicious.
There was a 3rd party company that was hired to do all the digging and construction. The plans look...curious.
Large, spacious rooms, floor to ceiling windows, etc. Lots of glass, but nothing that looks like offices or even dorms.
What would an "energy" company like Vespire Inc. want with all this land? Definitely not for solar panels. They have no issue taking donations from some of the big capital-P Polluters of this planet.
There has to be some other motive. A larger scheme?
Either way, a lot of it is obscured by business-speak, weird architectural plans, even weirder looking concept renders (low-effort Cinema4D renders by the looks of it), and a plethora of other bullshit.
She's going to need some help digging into this some more. But, who?
Would Lucile understand this? Probably?
Either way, Maya's just gonna have to keep her eyes open and ears to the ground.
12 Megabytes of answers that turned into even more questions. Shit. Is that the time? 7:30 PM. Damn, how long was Maya reading through this stuff?
Also, how the hell did Autoplay land on...whatever that is...
Ah, it's "The Master of Disguise" (2002). Maya changes it to something better. There's still some K-Dramas she has to catch up on.
Maya blurts out, "What the hell?!"
The show she wanted was removed. She quickly looks it up- it was renewed for another season but got canned. Not surprising. But, it doesn't make it any less depressing. There's always other stuff out there.
She strokes her chin, "Let's check out the J-Dramas. I heard they're as good as the K ones."
She settles on something and makes sure the subtitles are on. As the episode starts up, Maya's mind can't stop being drawn back to Vespire.
That business-speak has her mind swimming. Who are they, exactly? What are they doing here?
Why Plaintry?
She goes over the plans in her head and even brings up her phone to scroll through the PDFs while the J-Drama episode plays in the background.
"This doesn't look like any ordinary office building to me. It's all...off. Something about it seems off. In a bad way."
She breathes out a deep breath, "Ugh, not now." She tosses the phone to the side and snuggles up into her couch. She simply nods her head at the episode, too tired to follow the plot.
She turns up the volume a bit higher and sinks deeper into the couch.
7:45 PM.
The night is cool and breezy. The leaves on the trees are rustling in the wind. Street lights illuminate the road, casting shadows everywhere. A few flickered on and off, however.
Inside the old auditorium, the Kindred are convening for another meeting.
5 plastic blue chairs, a bit scratched up, are arranged in a circle in the center of the room. They'd been arranged that exact way for months now.
The air is stuffy and heavy, windows boarded shut, and the lights flicker every 5 or so minutes. It's all a bit eerie.
It wasn't meant to be like this. But with numerous budget cuts, this once-budding activity center is now nothing more than a dilapidated building in the middle of nowhere.
Forgotten by self-interested politicians who saw no value in anything other than their bank accounts (including the off-shore ones in the Cayman Islands) and left to be taken over by dust mites, web-weaving spiders, and the occasional pot-smoking teenager looking to get away from their helicopter parents or nosy siblings.
Once the Kindred chose this somber building as their meeting place, that last group had to be kept the hell away. Easier said than done, of course. Nothing some Tremere Blood Sorcery traps can't handle.
"Handle" not "Kill". Mere disorientation, loss of memory for a short while, and the occasional case of nausea coupled with diarrhea was all that was needed.
Besides, they're the most effective spells on the field (considering its target "audience").
To their credit, the Tremere in this town know their onions despite being near-total recluses.
At first, the auditorium was mostly bare and the meeting space was limited. Not to mention, covered in layers and layers of dust, smelling of piss, and with several windows shattered.
Used condoms were a common sight in and around the area, along with beer cans and other junk.
Even the (un)dead have certain standards. The place was given a "makeover", a "glow up".
Or in the case of the Kindred, a "gloom up".
Most of the immediate eyesores were cleaned, the windows were boarded up, the lights were fixed, and the floor was mopped.
It's now a little more tolerable and less reminiscent of neglect and indifference. Most mortals would still consider it manky as hell, but it is what it is.
Prince Lucas walks in, wearing a leather coat, his hair slicked back and smelling of brylcreem and Aqua Velva aftershave, his trademark toothpick hanging from the corner of his mouth. His knock-off Ray-Ban sunglasses are perched atop his head.
He's the epitome of cool, at least to himself.
A desperate attempt to fit in, perhaps? Or maybe it's just his usual vibe.
Accompanying Prince Lucas is Sheriff Eunice. The Malkavian's eyes are as empty as ever. Her face is expressionless, and her hair is tied into the tightest ponytail imaginable. She's dressed in a V-neck T-shirt and a pair of faded 3/4ths jeans.
She keeps her gun concealed underneath her long, brown jacket.
Prince Lucas walks up to the circle of chairs and takes his respective seat. A few minutes are passed in some rather awkward small talk. Prince Lucas tries but Sheriff Eunice doesn't seem interested in chin-wagging.
Instead, she just stands nearby, unmoving. Still as a statue.
As such, the room falls silent.
Well, nearly silent.
In walks Arman, accompanied by his Ghoul/bodyguard Rolf. Arman wears an expensive-looking gray suit, light blue tie, and custom made white shirt. His sparkly blue cufflinks and platinum watch glisten in the dim light.
The Ghoul looks as though he just walked out of some kind of shady nightclub. He wears a tight T-shirt (2 sizes minus what would actually fit him), his corduroy pants are a bit worn out. His long, brown hair flows freely down to his enormous shoulders. His hairy arms are covered in tattoos- mainly geometric shapes and a few words in what appears to be German.
"Greetings. I hope I'm not too late. Prince Lucas. Sheriff Eunice."
The Ventrue takes his seat and politely smiles. Rolf folds his hands and stands in the corner.
"Good evening, Arman. We've got a few more coming in," Prince Lucas replies.
"Yes. Yes."
Next up is Dylan. The Thin-Blood is dressed plainly. Checkered shirt, funky Bermuda shorts (3/4ths), and an unshaved scruffy beard to go along with his disheveled hair. Looking close enough, one could spot what looks like animal fur on his beard.
Rough day, probably?
Dylan sits in the circle with his legs spread out and arms behind him. He fiddles with his smartphone for a few minutes before deciding to turn it off.
Arman clears his throat and asks, "Dylan, would it hurt to dress a bit more...appropriately for this meeting? You are, after all, representing the Thin-Bloods in Plaintry."
The Thin Blood furrows his brow and gives Arman a look. A look that communicates without words, "Back the fuck off, I'm not in the mood."
Dylan is about to say something when Prince Lucas interjects, "Gentlemen..."
Just as he's about to continue, Ginny walks in.
The Lasombra is wearing a black dress, and a pair of black high heels. Her short, blonde hair is combed to one side and she has red lipstick on. Her gray eyes scan the room and she takes the next seat in the circle.
"It's good to see you here, Ginny," Prince Lucas says, thankful she came when she did before Arman and Dylan went for each other's necks over perceived lack of drip.
"Prince," she curtly nods at him.
She smiles at Arman and barely acknowledges Dylan's presence.
"Hey, Eunice."
"Ginny."
Prince Lucas breathes out deeply and gently claps his hands, "Eleanor should be here any minute."
Ginny shakes her head and says, "Hmph..."
Last (but certainly not least) is Eleanor. The Tremere wears a blouse with a flower pattern and a knee length brown skirt with black pumps. She's a lot older than the others. Her long, gray hair is tied into a high bun. She's also adorned in strange-looking jewellery and a dark pearl necklace. She's carrying a brown leather handbag with her.
She curls her thin lips into a vague smile and nods as she takes her place in the circle.
"Good to see you again, Eleanor," Prince Lucas says.
She bows her head, "Same to you, my liege."
Without skipping a beat, the Prince asks her, "So, have you made a decision regarding Maya?"
She confidently replies, "Yes. I have."
"And?"
She stands from her seat and takes a knee before the Prince, "On behalf of Clan Tremere, I Eleanor, Clan Elder, request you, Prince Lucas of Clan Ravnos to grant me permission to Embrace the one known as Maya."
Dylan gasps. Arman, Ginny, and Eunice remain silent and barely move an inch. The Prince looks around to gauge the others' reactions but they're all closed books.
After a brief pause, he asks, "Have you determined whether Maya is worthy of being one of us?"
"My Childe, Lucile, speaks highly of her. And, Lucile has been nothing but dedicated in her research of our kind. Therefore, I strongly believe that Maya is indeed worthy of this privilege. With the correct instructions, she will be of great use to the Pyramid."
Prince Lucas then asks, "How and where will this Embrace take place?"
He asks because ever since he came to power, all Embraces were essentially banned. A way to undo the...eccentricities of the former Prince.
Eleanor replies, "At my Childe's Haven. It is away from the town, and more suitable for the occasion than elsewhere."
The Prince contemplates for a moment and asks the others seated, "If anyone here objects to this, speak now. Or forever hold your peace."
Ginny is about to open her mouth and speak when Arman shoots her a glance and subtly shakes his head.
She clams up.
He says to the Prince, "Clan Ventrue will not object, my liege." One can't help but detect false sincerity in his statement. It eludes the Prince, however.
Dylan says to himself, "Wow, it's all going so fast."
He clears his throat and says, "Uh...yep, sure. The Thin-Bloods got no objection."
The Prince looks into Ginny's eyes, "Ginny? Does Clan Lasombra have any objections? I know you've had a very...how shall I say it, yes, negative perception of Maya. You've even fed from her, as I recall? On numerous occasions, even."
She nods, "I have. But, as long as she knows her place as a Fledgling, minds her own business, and learns her Usurper magic tricks, I got no issue."
Eleanor shoots back, "They are not 'magic tricks' as you so callously call them. These are the core elements of our Clan's culture and heritage. Honed through years of self-discipline and great sacrifice. And, I would appreciate if you would treat them with the respect that they deserve."
She looks to the Prince, "As I was saying, my Prince, Maya will be a valuable asset to Clan Tremere. I will train her myself and teach her the history of our kind, from the time of Caine's Curse to the present age. I will also include the more...esoteric ideas of Clan Tremere in our lessons."
She pauses and looks to each of the other members in the circle. Her eyes linger on Dylan for a few seconds before continuing, "If she is agreeable, that is."
Dylan says, "She uh...seems nice, yeah."
Prince Lucas raises his eyebrows, genuinely impressed by Eleanor's willingness to not only Embrace but also educate Maya.
Most Kindred love doing the first part and leaving their Childer out in the cold to fend for themselves.
Prince Lucas takes Eleanor's hands into his, "Well, that sounds good to me. Eleanor, I, Prince of Plaintry, grant you permission to Embrace Maya as and when you see fit. Just be sure to send her my way once she's all settled."
Eleanor bows, "It shall be done, my Prince. Thank you."
"Let it be so," the Prince boldly declares. There's no pressing the undo button now.
Dylan nods, "Cool."
Ginny indifferently says, "Well, good for her."
Sheriff Eunice simply stares at the Prince and shrugs, "Fine. I respect the declaration of the Prince."
Arman gently claps his hands and says, "Brilliant!"
He adjusts his collar, "One can only hope she will be of value to the Kindred. It has been a...while since anyone in this town has been Embraced. Perhaps this is a sign of greater things to come."
The way he says "greater things to come" is kinda off-putting.
Prince Lucas responds, "Yes. We can only hope. We're all a bit adrift here. I know I am out of my 'comfort zone' as it's called. At least this Embrace is authorized. I know my predecessor had a penchant for...floating, no, flouting the Traditions."
Dylan shakes his head and asks, "I don't mean to speak out of turn here, but how will Maya react when she finds out? Well, finds out that I was spying on her based on your orders. How will she react when she learns that Ginny's been feeding off her? Me? I'd be pissed. Well, no, I'd be pretty goddamned miffed."
Eleanor reassures the Thin-Blood, "Do not worry. I will gently lead her into these...inconvenient truths. However, it is perhaps better if there are things that she does not know of. Regardless, I will do what I can to help her to adjust to Unlife. The rest is up to her. Lucile will also be there, by my side, to help ease Maya into this process."
Ginny snidely remarks, "Sorry. Not sorry."
Arman clears his throat, "My Prince, I believe we must now discuss other...more pressing matters at hand. This Vespire business."
Prince Lucas groans, "Ah, yes. But make it quick. I have places to be tonight."
Arman fiddles with his cufflinks and continues, "I shall make it brief. The flash drive that Dylan here brought us a few nights back, well, it is a bit more than you might have thought. It is very sensitive. Also, very encrypted. I'm reaching out to my contacts in the intelligence community, but with the current restrictions on technology in place, such a task will take some time."
Ginny interjects, "Heh. Easier said than done."
The Lasombra looks at her fingernails and says, "Maybe the process could be...sped up" She gives a subtle glance to Arman and smiles at him.
The Prince nods and looks at his watch anxiously, "Hmmm. I see. I see."
He hastily asks, "I assume there's a connection to that Military Intelligence Brigade operation? What was it called? Ah, yes, 'Memphis Green'."
Arman replies, "Yes, yes. It appears that way. However, there's been no solid confirmation of that as of yet. Once we get more information, we can then act accordingly."
Dylan speaks up, "Why do I get the feeling that you're stalling for time, Arman? You got something else up your sleeve? Something you don't wanna tell the others? I may be a Thin-Blood but I can still smell bullshit."
"Excuse me?"
Prince Lucas raises his eyebrows, "Those are some serious accusations, Duskborn. Please, explain yourself." As Prince, Lucas doesn't like being in the dark (no pun intended), especially concerning affairs of such importance.
He needs to keep everyone and everything on a tight leash or things are bound to go bad real quick. He learnt that many times on his journeys- from experience.
And, the last thing he needs right now is a petty power struggle.
Arman scoffs, "It is just as I said. I've had people who have been working on the decryption process and I will be utilizing all the means at my disposal to continue doing so. Is that not enough considering the circumstances?"
The Prince sighs, "And what would you have us do, Dylan?"
Dylan wiggles in his seat a bit, wipes some specks of dust and fur off his shorts, and continues, "Well, isn't it about time that the Lasombra started pulling their weight around here? With one of our couriers dusted, why can't we use the priest that the Lasombra use to move stuff across state lines? We could...we could send the flash drive to be decrypted down south and have it back in under 48 hours."
Ginny narrows her eyes at him, "Yeah, sure. Look, like I said last time. We got issues with Father Jones. And, as much as I'd like to be doing something, I'm not gonna jeopardize the Lasombra's already shaky relationship with the Catholic Church."
The Prince shakes his head, "Speaking of couriers, how does Lucile's training fare, Eleanor?"
He continues, "I hope the car is to her liking? Such a fine beauty shouldn't be gathering dust at an impound lot," he says with a bit of a smirk.
The Prince continues, "And I hope that the 'paperwork' that Eunice procured is satisfactory?" He makes air quotes when referencing the paperwork.
Sheriff Eunice replies, "It should hold. Long as she doesn't do anything stupid."
Eleanor says, "Lucile is making good progress. And, yes, I believe that the car provided will be suitable for her task as courier. And, thank you for your consideration in procuring the paperwork, Sheriff. I trust it will hold."
The Malkavian coldly smiles, "Sure." Her face then goes back to neutral. Lifeless, almost. Like one of those expressionless mannequins one sees in stores.
Eleanor continues, "She should be ready to take on the role of courier within the next few nights, I believe. She's learning to harness the powers of the Blood at a rather astonishing rate." She pauses and looks to each of the Kindred in the circle.
She lingers on Arman again before continuing, "I have high hopes for her. I hope you feel the same way."
Arman gently nods, "Excellent. I believe that it would be prudent to begin our courier rotation sooner than planned. After all, there are only a handful of us. My sources tell me that the SI is rapidly integrating into the highway police and border patrol units," he says with disdain.
The Ventrue clearly has no love for the SI and what it represents. No one does.
The Sheriff scoffs, "I got a few of my people on the inside, too. I'll warn 'em."
The Prince adds, "Discreetly, of course. As for our courier rotation, I will contact my people in the Midwest and request the dispatching of an extra courier. Should anything unfortunate happen to Lucile. Not that I hope it does, but just in case."
He pauses, "No offense, Eleanor."
She warmly smiles, "None taken, my Prince."
Ginny yawns, "Well, I've had enough of this 'planning for the worst' talk. We either strike hard and fast. Or we don't strike at all. This 'wait and see' shit doesn't fly with me. It just seems to give the SI and other big players more time to prepare. Maybe we goota make a pre-emptive move of sorts?"
The Prince leans back in his chair and asks, "I'm well aware of your Clan's compulsion for Ruthlessness. And, I admire your spirit, Ginny. I, too, am no fan of the SI, to put it mildly. I do believe that there may come a time when we may be compelled to use...force on those who would not stop until we are ash and dust beneath the soles of their feet."
Ginny cracks a smile, "See, what'd I tell ya, huh? And, it'll be real nice if you--"
Prince Lucas interrupts and smiles back, "But not now, Ginny. It is vital that we first learn everything we can from what we have in our possession. I will be in contact with my allies to the Midwest. Dylan, your Thin-Bloods will now move on to procuring any and all information for us. No more spying on Maya or that friend of hers." He gives Dylan a stern look.
A look that says, "That's an order."
Dylan is relieved and nods, "Sure thing, boss. I'll keep my ears to the ground." He adjusts his position in his seat.
The Prince continues with his orders, "Sheriff Eunice, you will maintain your position and keep us informed of the activities of your people in the police. They must remain discreet at all times. Also, inform them of Lucile's travel routes. Should she be attacked or apprehended by the authorities, they will be expected to assist her."
The Malkavian dryly replies, "Ten-Four."
He turns to Arman, "Arman, you and your Ventrue will continue in your attempts to decrypt the contents of that flash drive. In the meanwhile, I want you to make a copy of its contents and hand it over to Lucile to take back to the Midwest."
He pauses, "Just in case."
Arman's eyebrows raise a bit. He seems a bit annoyed at the idea but not to the point of showing outright disrespect to his Prince, "It shall be done."
Next, Prince Lucas turns his attention to Ginny, "Ginny, I see there is no convincing you to let us make use of the...'services' that Father Jones provides. A shame. I hope that you will resolve any and all issues that your Clan may have with him, so that he may assist us in these times of need."
She nods, "Well, as I said, we'll see."
The Prince, still looking at Ginny, goes on, "There is another matter I wish to discuss with you. It is concerning an Elder of your Clan. Simon, I believe he's called."
Arman chimes in, "Yes. Yes, it would appear that he was...quite instrumental in the exiling of the Toreador and...extermination of the Nosferatu. Quite the scene, I was away on business in Canada when all that was occurring."
Ginny narrows her eyes at the Ventrue and asks Prince Lucas, "Yeah, so what of it? You're Prince now, the Masquerade's safe, and the rest of us are doing just fine."
The Prince rubs his hands, "I don't mean to reopen old wounds. I would just like to meet Mr. Simon. Perhaps you can arrange it. Or, at the very least, tell me more of his work with the Clan here."
The Lasombra lets out a big sigh, "Well, I'll see what I can do, Prince. Simon's been acting...strange lately."
Eleanor interrupts, "It's the Beckoning, isn't it," she says matter-of-factly.
"Probably. Yeah."
Eleanor replies, "Unfortunate." She then says, "It will, in all likelihood, take a toll on his psyche."
Ginny asks Eleanor, "You're an Elder too, how come you don't get it? I thought it affected Elders the most?"
Eleanor waves her hand dismissively, "I have yet to be Beckoned, dear. Although, I do not look forward to it. Regardless, I have heard stories of it taking the minds of other Elders. They go mad, or they simply succumb to it."
Ginny responds, "Heh. I guess we'll find out."
"Hmph."
Arman says, "Then, there is of course, the issue of Bernice's mayoral campaign. Ginny's people in the legal world will be of great assistance, no doubt."
The Prince replies, "That is not a major concern. I've seen mortal politics during my time on the road. It is of no use to me, personally." His face contorts into an expression of disgust at the mention of "mortal politics".
He continues, "You and Ginny can deal with this Bernice woman how you see fit, but I do warn you, I will not tolerate any breaches of the Masquerade. I expect you both to exercise great caution and restraint when...engaging with her."
He glares at Arman for a brief moment before continuing, "Besides, some early polls show that her contender and current Mayor is slated to win another term. All the same to me. No need for any theatrics in a circus." The Prince lets out a chuckle.
Arman gently bows his head, "I understand your ambivalence about modern mortal politics, but I, no, we do what we must for the good of Clan and Kindred." He beckons to Ginny when he says "we".
She flashes a quick (albeit insincere) smile back.
Eleanor chimes in, "It is perhaps better to influence the people...subtly. The magazine that Maya works for. Ninety? No? Ni--Nirvana? Sorry, the name eludes me--"
Dylan gently responds, "Nimbus."
Eleanor, a bit embarrassed, nods, "Yes, Nimbus. Thank you, dear. Yes, I believe that mortals could be subtly influenced through the use of mass media and such."
Prince Lucas raises his eyebrows and asks, "How so, Eleanor? I doubt there's demand for any more dreadful stories about suave Eastern European vampire men and petite, blonde haired American women falling in love." He lets out a soft laugh.
Good to see a Prince with some sense of humor.
Dylan adds, "Re-watching the 'Twilight Saga' after my Embrace does feel a little different, haha." He pauses, "Yeah, never mind."
Ginny nods, "Well, the 'real' vampires are so unlike the ones in the books and movies anyways. These fools really think a piece of wood through the heart destroys us or that we're afraid of crosses and garlic?"
Ginny laughs, "Pfff, yeah, right."
Eleanor explains, "Perhaps so. But in many ways, we are still very similar to the mortals. We love. We sing. We dance. We mourn. We yearn. And, at times we even hate. It is the same for us as it is for them. We are, in essence, only mere inches above the mortals. And even that is debatable."
Prince Lucas gently sighs, "Yes. I would love to sit here all night discussing our similarities and differences with the mortals, but I must be heading out. We are, indeed, Kindred. We must, above all else, have patience. Patience, and self-discipline."
He gets up, looks around the circle of occupied seats and concludes, "I believe we have covered everything that we needed to cover tonight, yes? If anything arises in the meantime, do not hesitate to contact me or my Ghoul, Frank, immediately. But ONLY if it is an emergency. Is that understood?"
The Prince looks at each of the Kindred and awaits their response.
They all reply, "Yes, Prince Lucas."
"Good. Then it is agreed. Let us meet again, a few nights from now. My Ghoul has already scheduled this out in advance."
He turns to Arman and asks, "Any objections?"
The Ventrue responds, "No, not at all my Prince. Have a lovely night."
Arman grips Prince Lucas's hands and they exchange a brief handshake. The Prince smiles, and with that, he is off.
The others say their goodnights and get up to head out.
The Prince, as it were, has places to be (as is to be expected of a Ravnos).
Sheriff Eunice accompanies the Prince after barely saying bye to the others present.
Ginny heads out, with Dylan and Eleanor far behind.
"Duskborns," Arman snickers. Rolf joins him and they both chuckle.
Dylan whispers, "Asshole. Assholes."
Eleanor says, "I beg your pardon, dear?"
Dylan furrows his brow, "Ah, it was nothing. I got a shift coming up. I'll see you around. Send my regards to Lucile. Y'know, I'm kinda excited about Maya becoming one of us, I guess. She's decent enough and all. I hope that carries over once she's been Embraced..."
The Elder Tremere pats Dylan's shoulder and responds, "I'm fairly certain that she will be of great benefit to us. You just be sure to be there for her when she needs a friend. With Lucile going away, she'll likely need someone more, how shall I put this, yes, streetwise to show her the proverbial ropes."
Dylan raises his eyebrows, "Me? Are you sure, Eleanor?"
Eleanor reassures the Thin-Blood, "Apart from Lucile, you are the only one I trust. Goodnight, Dylan."
"'Night. And, uh...thank you."
"The pleasure is all mine." With that, Eleanor waves goodbye and heads off into the chilly night.
Dylan goes his own way towards the Amazon warehouse.
Arman stands outside, admiring the stars. He senses Rolf watching him.
He asks, "What is it, Rolf?"
The Ghoul replies, "New friend, ja? Maya. Does master approve of...Maya?"
The Ghoul speaks with a German accent. Prior to his current position, Rolf was a bouncer at the Club Oase in Berlin. He was, in a word, intimidating.
His muscles, his size, his tattoos, his faded scars- everything about him spoke of unyielding, uncompromising strength.
Arman chose Rolf while all the Ventrue's other business partners were snorting coke off a glass table to the thumping rhythm of a crappy techno remix of that other remix. His Ghoul was no stranger to such a life.
Coke-fueled frenzies, bar fights over some bodacious vixen, vomiting up chunks of all sorts of strange colors and shapes, it was all considered "normal" for a man like Rolf.
3 drinks of Blood later, Rolf was essentially bound to a life of eternal servitude.
Unless of course, Master Arman..."expires", another opportunity is found, or Rolf decides to get Embraced (not likely to happen).
Rolf is treated well. Or as well-treated a Ventrue's Ghoul can be- some would say pampered compared to the Ghouls of other Clans. As a Ghoul, one of Rolf's jobs was procuring...fresh blood for his master.
Easier said than done, considering his master is a Ventrue and refuses to feed from "bums, homeless, drug addicts, prostitutes, immigrants, or any other mortal that doesn't hold value."
As such, he usually assists in the acquiring of mortals who aren't on the margins of society but are not what one would call "apex" either; the ones who are caught are mainly young women in the middle of a life of uncertainty and desperation.
Rolf usually uses a fake ID, a fake bank account, and the promise of a life of fame and easy stardom to get this sordid job done.
In a sense, the Ventrue are the masters of manipulation, be it in the world of business, finance, politics, or the world of the "undead". They aren't also known as "The Clan of Kings" or "Ambitiones" for nothing.
Back to where we left off...
Arman sighs and looks out into the sky, "I have not met this Maya, personally. All I know is that she's a writer for some second-rate rag. Ah, yes, she also has red hair, I believe."
The Ghoul replies, "I encounter many redheads back in Oase. Very...fiery."
Arman responds, "After her Embrace, I would like to have a conversation with her. Perhaps it could lead to something."
"Redheads always full of energy. Sometimes too much. One even bite me in arm once. Badly. Had to get injection to be safe. I could feel her teeth sink into skin. It was very unpleasant, master."
Arman chuckles, "I'm sure it was, Rolf."
Ginny walks over to Arman and sharply says, "We need to talk. Meet me in my place in 30." She turns her attention to the Ghoul, "Rolf."
Rolf looks at Ginny and bows, "Yes."
She walks off, gets into her car, slams the door, and drives off.
The Ghoul chuckles, "It is date, perhaps, ja. Blonde not happy with master. I saw many blondes in Oase. Not very bright. Always drunk or too stupid to read signs."
Arman lets out a chuckle and pats his Ghoul on the shoulder, "Oh, you are something else, Rolf. We'll stop back at my Haven for a quick 'snack' and then head for Ginny's."
The Ventrue proceeds to say, "Bring the car, Rolf. I just want to stand here and enjoy the cool night breeze for a bit."
"Certainly, master."
The Ghoul goes off to fetch the car. Arman paces around, alone. He gently rubs the top of his head and takes a deep breath. As he is deep in thought, the hairs on his neck and hand stand up.
Has it already begun? Are they here already?
Mr. Haru said they should be arriving "soon", but he failed to say how "soon". Arman quickly scans the horizon. Nothing. No, not yet.
Not yet, but soon.
Arman closes his eyes and lets out a soft grunt. He can feel it. He can feel...them. A prickling sensation that runs along his spine and spreads across his skin like an itch.
He's heard the stories. None of them pretty. He can feel their arrival in his cold bones.
Oh, the carnage that is about to ensue.
It is all part of the plan. A very, very complicated plan that requires all the players (and pawns) to come together in order to for it be realized successfully.
But, if everything goes according to plan, this will be the the start of the night when the Kindred of Plaintry will take the first step towards securing their own future.
A very long and successful future full of blood and fortune. And most importantly, power.
Or, it could very well set in motion events which lead to their Final Death.
For some, maybe that's the better alternative.
But for the others, it's the desired outcome.
Rolf brings the car around, headlights shining brightly on the empty stretch of what was once considered road.
"Ready when you are, master."
Arman gets into the passenger seat and adjusts the seat a bit. He looks in the rearview mirror and checks his hair.
"You know my schedule for tonight, Rolf. First, I'll have to go home and get a few things done and then we go to Ginny's"
"As you wish, my master."
Arman nods and looks out the window. He asks, "So, what do you think has gotten Ms. Ginny all riled up?"
"I do not know. It is not my place to say. But, Kindred are very...complex creatures, ja. Even more than mortals, ja."
The Ventrue smirks, "Yes. I suppose so. I take it you have procured some fresh blood for me, Rolf?"
He pauses and adds, "I hope you didn't draw too much attention to yourself. We are living in uncertain times, my friend..."
The Ghoul, his eyes focused on the road and his foot down on the accelerator, responds, "The usual, boss."
He pauses and continues, "There is no need to worry. Rolf is good at covering his tracks."
Arman chuckles and says, "Ja." He looks at his Ghoul and gives a smile.
Rolf stays focused on the road and doesn't notice this. The smile that the Ventrue gives his Ghoul is probably not one of warmth or kindness.
Rather, it is a smile that speaks volumes of what his intentions are and have been. And how Rolf has been doing his part in dutifully fulfilling said intentions.
The Ghoul has done a fine job thus far, but there is still much to be done.
But, the Ventrue are patient, especially when the outcome is what they desire most.
After a few minutes of wading through the traffic, they pull into the driveway. Rolf pulls the keys out of the ignition and gets out to open the door for Arman. He walks into the house and straight to his study.
The Ventrue opens the safe behind the portrait of a woman dressed in Victorian Era attire.
Rolf proceeds to get tonight's "delicacy". After a few minutes, Arman is seated in his study. Before that, he undoes his shirt collar and throws his suit jacket on one of the elegant chairs in the room.
The tips of his fingers meet and the Ventrue stares around his extravagant study.
Rolf knocks on the door and enters with a woman in her early-20s. He has his big hand around her arm and she seems a bit uncomfortable, but not fully lucid. Her clothes are a bit creased in a few places, as if she had been running for a long time.
Her red hair is messy and her makeup is smeared, giving her an almost wild and desperate look.
Arman is not too impressed by this, "Hmmmm, what happened with this one, Rolf? Why is her hair all disheveled? Furthermore, her clothes are a mess. Too much...untidiness, you see. Not good for my image."
Rolf pensively bows his head, "I'm sorry, master. But this one got second thoughts. Change of heart at last minute."
He adds, "She almost escape. Pfft." He looks at her with a look of disdain. His grip on her arm tightens.
He's angry, but he knows he dare not hurt her.
Arman shrugs and beckons Rolf to place her on the couch, "Oh well. It can't be helped. It will have to do. For tonight. You can leave us now, Rolf."
Rolf nods and places the woman on the couch, just as he's about to leave and close the door, Arman clears his throat and says, "Rolf. Next time, I expect better, yes?"
Rolf quickly nods, closes the door, and walks off.
Arman can hear the footsteps getting softer and softer.
He walks over to the woman. She seems to be coming to and looks at him with fear. He can hear her heartbeat quickening. It's a rhythmic drumming sound. Arman senses this and utilizes his Dominate Discipline to make her more...compliant.
With a certain vibrating force in his voice, Arman says, "Calm."
The woman goes back into that semi-lucid state and emptily repeats, "Calm." A bit of spit dribbles down her chin. The Ventrue gently sits down next to her and strokes her hair.
He can feel the warm blood pulsing beneath the skin.
The sensation causes a slight rumble to run through his body.
He bares his fangs and gently moves the woman's neck into view until its flesh becomes visible. Arman sinks his fangs into her neck and begins to feed. As he feeds, a surge of adrenaline courses through his body.
This sensation, it is the best part of feeding. The best part of "the Kiss".
For a Kindred, the rush that comes after sinking their fangs into their prey and beginning the "feeding frenzy" is a rush no mortal drug or "vice" can offer.
Unlike last time, he only takes what is required. Before long, he pulls away, blood still dripping from his lips and chin. The woman, her head tilted slightly to the side, is alive but extremely weak and pale.
Still, she can be heard softly saying, "Calm. Calm. Calm." As Arman was feeding, the woman had wrapped her arms around him. Now, her arms hang weakly at her sides.
Arman, with his finger, wipes the remaining blood off his face and moves in to lick the wound on the woman's neck. No traces.
With that, it has all been sealed.
There is no mark on her neck to show that she has been bitten by a vampire. The woman falls back onto the couch, exhausted.
The Ventrue takes a few moments to compose himself.
He adjusts his shirt and drives his hand through his hair a few times to fix it. Arman then calls out, "Rolf!"
In a few minutes, the Ghoul enters the study and sees the woman lying on the couch.
She's in a state of quasi-ecstasy. It is almost as if her mind and body are no longer one. Like they're 2 different entities. One being, the body, lies there, pale and weakened. The other, the mind, is elsewhere.
Somewhere, deep within a void, floating and drifting like a boat at sea.
Rolf has done this dozens of times by now. He waves some smelling salts under the woman's nose and she awakens. The Ghoul gently guides her towards the door.
As she exits, Arman, from his desk, encourages her, "Thank you. I hope you will sleep well tonight."
The woman slurs her words a bit, but manages to say, "Uh...yeah--"
Rolf calmly tells the woman, "We will get you something to eat and drink first, ja? You look very...tired."
She faintly nods and nearly trips over, but Rolf catches her.
The 2 disappear into the darkness. Arman, his mind at peace, returns to his work. Such is the usual routine for Kindred such as himself.
A Kindred with means, that is.
A Kindred without such, however, resorts to prowling alleys and street corners at night.
Their "meals" are the homeless, sex workers, and anyone unfortunate enough to be passing by a hungry vampire's line of sight. But, such a(n) (un)life is not for a Kindred with means, and most certainly not for one of Clan Ventrue!
Arman sprays some expensive cologne on his wrist and suit jacket. Davidoff. It smells...pleasant. Just as he likes it.
After a few minutes of going through paperwork, he calls for Rolf to bring the car around, "Rolf. Let's head over to Ginny's."
The Ghoul, who was just finishing up feeding the woman a small plate of food, comes to the door and asks, "Yes, master. I will just show this one to her...room and bring car."
The "room" in question is in the basement. There are 2 locks on the door, so that's quite a deterrent. There's a bed with a hard mattress, an old TV, and a few magazines for entertainment. There's a small steel toilet near a steel sink.
The room itself has no windows.
There's also no way to escape unless one is willing to squeeze themselves through a small opening near the ceiling.
But, that would be a rather painful endeavor.
There are almost a dozen other "rooms" like this in the basement. Each one of them is occupied. Some by 1 woman. Others by 2 women. All relatively young.
Some of them are asleep. Some are wide awake, staring blankly ahead; whilst others are sitting and talking in hushed tones when they hear Rolf's heavy footsteps.
Some rooms are empty, waiting for the next one. Or next ones. But, they won't be empty for long. It's a revolving door. In, out, in, out. They're kept fed, watered, and clean.
The bare minimum.
Should something go wrong when they are being fed on, Rolf is usually the one to dispose of the mess and tie up any loose ends. As a Ghoul, it is his duty. And, for better or worse, he's damn good at his job.
Rolf always does what he can to keep the place tidy, too.
Sometimes he even combs the women's hair and sings to them (in German) as they are asleep or too oblivious to even process what's going on.
The Ghoul does this because, somewhere in there, beneath all that quasi-immortal slab of muscle is still a human.
Of course, Arman wouldn't be too pleased to find out about this, so Rolf only does it during the days or when his master is away for an extended period of time and doesn't require the accompaniment of a Ghoul.
Why should Arman care, they're just "food" after all.
It's not like mortals care too much about how the cow "feels" or "fares" before it's turned into TV dinner anyway.
As for the Ventrue, their dirty work is done primarily by their Ghouls (or freshly embraced Childer). If you have a Ghoul or 2, you could get away with a lot (theoretically). Provided you can pay their "upkeep".
Arman has only 1. Other Ventrue of a similar (or greater) caliber have 5 or 6.
Back to where we left off...
Rolf helps the woman get "settled in", locks the door, comes back up and brings the car around.
Arman gets in and they both drive off.
As they do, Arman asks, "Did it all go well with her? Is she...settling in nicely?"
"Yes."
Arman replies, "Very good."
The rest of the drive is quiet. No words are exchanged. Arman looks out the window or scrolls through his phone, looking at the news and such (mainly the business and finance stuff).
Rolf keeps his eyes set on the road and his giant foot on the accelerator.
When they arrive, Ginny is already waiting for them outside. She's smoking and looks pissed.
"You're late. 10 fuckin' minutes. That's 10 more minutes than I can spare, Arman," she scoffs. She turns her attention to the Ghoul, "Rolfy."
He nods and parks the car, waiting for his master. Arman gets out while Rolf pulls his seat back and turns up the knob on the car radio.
Ginny says, "We really need to talk."
The Ventrue raises his eyebrows but does not respond.
Ginny lets him into her place, closes the door, and motions him to take a seat in her living room.
Simon is already seated on one of the leather couches. He's wearing a blue button-down shirt and gray pants. He is relaxed, his fingertips touch each other as his hand forms a vague triangle. His eyes are fixed on his hands, but he's not exactly looking at them either.
More like he's observing them.
Like they're the most fascinating thing in the world right now.
In his silky smooth voice, he greets Ginny's Ventrue guest, "Arman." He doesn't even bother to look at him. No eye contact.
Arman curtly nods his head and takes a seat opposite him, "Simon."
The Lasombra Elder continues, "How have things been, Blue Blood?"
Arman slumps back into the couch, "Going well, so far."
Ginny rudely interrupts, her face a mixture of anger and frustration, "Going well? Are you fuckin' high? You're just gonna let the Tremere Embrace that Maya woman? We had an opportunity there, Arman. We could have dusted that bitch! Why didn't you try and stop it?!" She angrily stomps her feet on the floor and grunts.
She looks like she's about to pull out a shotgun and empty the entire clip into the wall (or someone).
Arman calmly, yet sternly responds, "This has all been decided, my dear Ginny. There are numerous reasons why I didn't object--"
Simon interrupts, "Hmmmmm." He appears to be humming to himself. A small smile spreads across his face and he laces his fingers together, "Interesting. Very interesting." He still won't make eye contact.
Instead, he keeps staring at his hands, now playing with the various rings that adorn his slender fingers.
Arman shakes his head and continues, "As I was saying, Ginny, there are many reasons why your particular course of action would've proven disastrous for our plans. First, there is the most obvious one."
Ginny, clearly getting impatient, shoots back, "Oh, yeah? And what's that?" She crosses her arms in front of her chest.
Arman gently replies, "Love. That other Tremere, Lucile is madly in love with Maya. A few other Ventrue spotted them...well, I'm sure you have a vast enough imagination to fill in the blanks."
Ginny rolls her eyes and mutters, "Puh. Big deal. You think it's my first time wasting someone 'in love'?"
She spits out, "Grow a spine, big guy."
Arman sighs, "And you would rather have a relatively powerful Blood Sorceress come after us and possibly rally other Kindred to her vengeful cause? Make no mistake, Ginny, if we are to proceed with our plans, we must take extra precautions and care to avoid any potential pitfalls. That's why I didn't object to the Embrace. As well as a number of others."
Ginny furrows her brow and looks at Arman, "And what are the 'others', hmmm?"
Simon's humming grows a bit louder, as he still maintains his thousand yard stare. It's hard to tell whether he's looking at Arman, outside the window, or if he's even fully here.
The Ventrue, unsure of whether the Elder is listening to their conversation, continues, "Well, the Tremere will, in all likelihood, keep a closer watch on Maya. Usurpers have all kinds of initiations, rites, and rituals for the freshly-Embraced. You heard how Eleanor plans to teach her everything she knows."
He clears his throat, wiggles in his seat a bit and goes on, "That alone will take time. Time that we will spend consolidating our power. Not only that, but she'll likely seek to distance herself from any connection with us. I will of course, meet her once in order to...test the proverbial waters."
Ginny sarcastically responds and waves her hands, "Of course, of course. Mr. Congeniality here has got everything planned out to a T. And, as always, it's gonna go exactly how you say it is. Great job. Well done. Except for the whole thing where you let the fuckin' Tremere Embrace her and potentially gain a stronger foothold in this goddamn town!"
Simon chimes in, "Maya. Red hair. Elegant legs. Sweet blood. Shame." He lightly shakes his head and goes back to staring at the void.
Ginny looks at him, "Yeah, damn shame."
Arman leans forward, "Ginny, the Tremere in this town are recluses. Shut-ins. Socially awkward, perhaps. They hardly pose a threat to our plans. It is those wretched Thin-Bloods who are of greater threat to our survival. They're the ones who need to be...dealt with."
Simon sighs, "Tzimisce. Do not forget...Tzimisce."
He looks at Ginny and gently asks, "Did you tell him? Go on then, tell him." Simon shakes his head and hums once again.
Arman perks up, "Tell me what?"
Ginny clears her throat, "Well, there's a Tzimisce coming to this town in a few nights. Not a big time Elder or anything like that. Not some Fledgling either--"
Arman immediately cuts her off, "Bah! Flesh-manipulating monstrosities," he barks, "Hideous, hideous." His voice is almost shaking.
Simon puts his hands to his sides, "Remember what I said about the Tzimisce last time? A lot of them are plastic surgeons these nights. I'm told they're in the very lucrative business of rearranging the faces of mortals into a work of art, so to speak."
Ginny looks at Arman with a twinkle in her eye and replies, "Makes me almost wish I could go to him and then see myself in the mirror after he's worked his magic."
Arman sneers, "Him?"
Simon replies, "I just learned of his arrival a night ago. Ginny and I were speaking about it."
Arman shakes his head, "Very well. Let this Stoker come and complete whatever business he has in this town. But, should he be caught feeding in Ventrue territory or preying upon those whom the Ventrue have put aside, then I will personally see to it that the Sheriff's sword falls upon his neck."
Simon cracks a small grin, "A fair proposal, Arman."
Ginny nods in agreement, "Yep."
Arman sighs, "So, tell me more about this person, then. On what capacity is he involved with us?"
Simon rubs his fingers together. He looks around the room, as if taking in all of Ginny's possessions and then continues, "Ah, well, it is said that the Tzimisce Clan has taken 'great interest' in the current state of affairs in this part of the United States. I believe they wish to...atone for their past wrongdoings, like the Lasombra."
Arman wittily responds, "By defecting from the Sabbat to the Camarilla."
Simon doesn't take the jab at all, "Perhaps. Although, I'd hardly call it 'defecting'. I'm here to merely facilitate such arrangements."
Arman sharply replies, "Interesting. But you still haven't told me how a plastic surgeon fits into all this."
Simon leans back in the couch and looks up, "Well, Brock is a Tzimisce. His Clan's Compulsion is...a very exploitable one."
"Covetousness," Ginny cuts in.
Simon nods, "Yes. Yes. What she said. We might have the object this particular Tzimisce covets."
Arman folds his arms across his chest and inquires, "And that object is...? Come now, let's not waste any more time here."
Simon's face contorts into a look of disappointment, "Very well."
He sighs, "I believe you have heard of the McMahon family?"
Arman replies, "I do not like where this is going, but yes. I've not only 'heard' of them, I've had the privilege of welcoming them to my home on a few occasions."
Arman dusts his pants gently and continues, "They're related to the current Mayor of this town and hold considerable influence in local and national politics, not to mention vast amounts of wealth."
Ginny adds, "I believe you've met their son too, Arman?"
He replies, "Jon. Yes, a few times. An accountant, I believe. Still a bit young to be involved with such a grand and important family. He's also a bit...different from the others in his family. But, he is quite clever and ambitious. I have no doubt that he will one day rise to greatness."
Simon shrugs, "Jon, as he is called, is said to be the object of this Tzimisce's Covetousness."
Arman raises his eyebrows and asks, as he's genuinely confused, "How so? In what way?"
Simon's smile broadens as he lets out a soft chuckle, "He's what they call a...homosexual. It is, or was, his secret, perhaps." He says this in an almost excited tone.
Arman's eyes widen. He shakes his head, "I find this roundabout amusing, but please, do get to the point, Simon. Besides, it's the 21st century. People are far more tolerant these days."
Simon smiles, "Yes. I'm well...aware of modern sensibilities, thank you. Brock, too, knows what it means to be...out. A contact has told me the family has been very distraught by Jon McMahon's coming out. It is, predictably, causing waves in the family. And likely hurting the reelection chances of the current Mayor. You see, Jon and Brock were in a relationship."
Ginny interrupts and adds, "A long distance one. Heh heh."
Arman shakes his head, "I've had the pleasure of welcoming the McMahons to my home on many occasions. I'm fully aware of their, shall we say...retrograde views on certain matters, however. Why doesn't Jon just leave to go be with Brock? He seems capable of standing on his own 2 feet. The man's 30 for god's sake."
Simon smiles, as if waiting for someone to ask that question.
He nods and motions to Ginny.
She replies, "Well, our contact, a Ghoul who works as a gardener for the family, reported screaming coming from a nearby barn. It's been going on for weeks now. So, I had a little look-see, and wouldn't you know, Jon is holed up there being prayed over and beaten with sticks. Heh, it's pretty much amateur hour pray-the-gay-away."
Ginny waves her hair to the side and continues, "Guess they don't wanna send him to one of those camps where they make all sortsa promises."
She makes a fake shudder and grimaces, "Yech!"
Ginny shakes her head, looks at Arman and shrugs, "So, that's the deal."
Simon continues, "Normally, we wouldn't care too much about such things. They happen all the time. Mortals are not our problem, but this one, however, represents a unique opportunity, you see. We rescue Jon and hand him over to Brock--"
Arman interrupts, "How does any of this connect to the Tzimisce, let alone our plans? This seems to be more of an...internal family affair, Simon. How does this Brock tie into our plans, if at all? He seems like a piddling little Tzimisce, likely the sort who does some body and face modifications and has the nerve to call it 'art.'"
Simon gently sighs and holds up his hand, "I'm getting to that, Arman. Of course, Brock is coming to this town on the pretense of conducting some official Clan-related business."
Ginny cuts in, "Naughty, naughty." She shakes her head.
Simon shoots her a dirty look.
"Anyway," the Lasombra Elder goes on, "this is undesirable. A Tzimisce Neonate unfamiliar with how things are run in Plaintry is bound to slip up and make mistakes. Mistakes that could draw the attention of the Second Inquisition or any of its affiliates."
Ginny looks at him and nods in agreement. Arman's attention is still fixed on the Lasombra Elder.
Arman asks, "So, we rescue Jon from his...captivity. What then? If there's one thing I know about the McMahons, it's that they do not like it when things don't go their way. Even slightly. They'll stop at nothing to get their boy back. Even if it means bringing in a private military firm. It's also worth mentioning that they have connections to law enforcement. They'll spare no expense in deploying EVERYTHING and EVERYONE at their disposal."
Without skipping a breath, Simon says, "We kill the rest of the family, then."
Arman's eyebrows raise and he feels the hair on his arms stand up. Ginny looks at Simon. He gives her a little wink, and she smiles back. Arman's face remains unflappable and his tone, even.
Arman nearly chokes as he clears his throat, "I--I beg your pardon?"
Simon leans back, "We make it look like a fire tore through their mansion. Ginny here is the one who brought up the brilliant idea of making our move during peak hours- when traffic is dense."
Ginny smirks, "That way, the big red truck won't be able to get there in time. Nothing short of perfection, heh heh." There is an eerie cheeriness in her voice.
Arman scoffs, "Seems like a lot of unnecessary bloodshed for one unimportant Flesh-Shaper."
Simon shakes his head, "I couldn't care less about what Brock does once Jon is in his...care. However, Brock's Sire is Seneschal to the Prince of Flimont City. Do you see, Arman, where I'm going with this? Hmmmm?"
He lets the question hang in the air and allows Arman to process the information.
Ginny continues, "The Prince of Flimont City's got the power and pull to make things...smoother for us. And our plans."
Arman, still shaken and relatively unconvinced, strokes his chin and asks, "Hmmm, how so? What do we have to gain from such an alliance?" Arman looks at Ginny with an inquiring look.
Simon lets his smile broaden and puts his hands on the sofa, waiting to give his pitch. He's clearly very eager to kill. Almost to a frightening extent. His blue eyes have an almost otherworldly shine to them.
Which, so far, is different from the relatively tame and humming Simon that Arman was used to seeing.
The Lasombra Elder replies, "Brock will be in our debt once Jon has been recovered. He will then go back to Flimont City and put in a good word for us to his Sire, who will in turn tell the Prince. The Prince will be quite interested in hearing more what we're doing out here, especially considering Plaintry's current Prince is...weak."
Ginny sums it up, "It's the long-game, Arman. We gotta start making alliances outside Plaintry, otherwise we're fucked."
Simon, eager to get back on track, continues, "In any case, I believe that by doing this, we will gain a considerable advantage, and perhaps, a more reliable ally, Arman."
Arman stares at the floor as he's processing what Ginny and Simon have just told him.
He asks, "Is killing all of them necessary? Perhaps there is another way?"
Simon shakes his head from side to side, "You said it yourself, they are a family of considerable...resources. This is the only way. We strike after they get back from a church service and light their mansion on fire after."
He leans back, "It's been a while since the Lasombra in this town have had such an intoxicating hunt, hmmmmm."
Simon is clearly pleased by this. He rubs his fingers and plays with the various rings on his hands. He is also eager to feed. Eager to taste the blood of a mortal, warm, pulsing with life and vigor.
And fear.
Ginny stares at Arman and adds, "What's the problem, tough guy? Getting limp now?" There is an unmistakable tone of disdain and disappointment in her voice.
Simon chuckles softly, but doesn't say anything. He keeps twiddling with the rings on his fingers and stares ahead, eyes unblinking.
Arman takes a while to respond, still deciding on what to say and how to say it.
It's obviously too late to back out now.
The Ventrue and Lasombra have spent years "reconciling" and making careful moves in order to lay the foundation for something great.
Arman, being the sort of individual he is, does not like to make any sudden, violent, and impulsive moves.
That's how Ventrue like him succeed. The Lasombra, however, have a...different approach to what counts as "success".
A very different approach.
Arman sighs, "I see. Very well then, we will make our move when you're ready, Simon. I leave this in your uh...capable hands."
Simon responds, "Don't fret, Arman, we have everything covered. I've made certain that everything goes smoothly. Trust me." Simon says the last 2 words as a thin black vapor comes out from his mouth, making the air around it cold and thin.
Simon, still staring ahead, and still smiling, adds, "Now, there's the matter of Jon's recovery. Ginny?"
Ginny leans back, "Yeah, he's gonna be all kinds of fucked up when we get him outta there. Heh, no surprise there. Arman, you mind keeping him in your place for a night or 2?"
Arman raises his neck slightly, "Hmph. Very well. True, Jon will be traumatized, to put it mildly. However, I invoke the tradition of The Domain. That Fiend is to take his...boyfriend and leave my Haven as soon as he entered it."
He nods and waves his hand, as if he's done his part.
Simon nods his head. The black vapor seeps out of his mouth. It's more noticeable this time.
Simon then says, "Fair enough."
Ginny nods in agreement.
Simon says, "We make our move 2 nights from now. I'll...need to assemble a Coterie. It's been a while since I've said those words--" he mutters, "Anyway, Ginny and I will have to do some extra coordinating on our end...you'll just need to show up there. Bring that Ghoul of yours along."
Simon is obviously being deliberately vague about how they are going to ignite a whole mansion on fire, but Arman doesn't seem too keen on questioning it.
The idea of killing an entire family (even one as detestable as the McMahons) makes the Ventrue a tad bit queasy.
Simon adds, "The Tremere, that soon to be Tremere, the Thin-Bloods, the other...undesirables, they are the ones who deserve our ire and anger."
Arman sighs and leans back. He is looking up at the ceiling, lost in his thoughts and genuinely perturbed by what he's agreeing to partake in.
Simon stands up and cracks his knuckles, "Very well. I will leave you 2 to discuss whatever it is that's got Ginny here all riled up. Personally, I don't care what happens to Maya."
He walks to the door to let himself out, but turns around, "Like many Tremere, they start off on a high note, eager to know the deeper secrets of the Blood and how it can be used to its full potential, but...like many, they become addicted to their own Blood Magic, obsessed even, and ultimately end up consumed by it. It's likely she'll go mad from having looked--"
Ginny cuts him off, "I still think Embracing her is a big mistake that's gonna bite us in the asses down the line. We should have dusted her when we had the chance."
Simon replies, "What's done is done. We're so close now. Besides, when the time comes, this can be used as ammunition against the current Prince."
He puts on his fedora and strokes his mutton-chops, "All in good time. Goodnight."
With that, the Lasombra Elder fades away into the starry night, eventually becoming one with the shadows.
Ginny gets up to lock the door and grunts, "Hmph."
She sits back down and crosses her arms. The Ventrue and the Lasombra sit across each other in the living room, neither saying a word to each other. Cumbersome silence permeates the room for a while.
Both clearly thinking about how the next few days, nights, and weeks will play out.
And how to help it play out to their own respective advantages.
After a long silence, Arman is the one to speak, "That was...not what I expected when I showed up tonight. I can't believe that the McMahons would do something like this, then again, I shouldn't be too surprised. They have a rather...questionable view of the world. That much is true."
He looks down and adds, "But killing them all? Surely we could have come to a different arrangement? Something that doesn't require a disproportionate display of violence--"
Ginny shakes her head and chuckles, "YOU got cold feet all of a sudden? You didn't seem one bit squeamish about having the 'solution' to our Thin-Blood issues, and I'm pretty sure it ain't a 'pack up your shit and leave town' kinda solution."
Ginny leans in and asks, "So, what is that 'solution' anyway, hmmmm?"
The Ventrue didn't see that coming and folds his arms in front of his chest, "Hmph! That...is different. Anyways, all will be made known in due time. They should be arriving soon."
The McMahon thing still weighs heavily on Arman. His eyebrows are still furrowed. The wrinkles on his face seem more pronounced. He's lost in thought and at a loss for words.
Regardless, The Ventrue continues, "You know, there are many people who I've come across, Kindred and mortals, who say I have the eyes of a dead man."
He turns and looks out the window. It is dark and cold outside. But there are still signs of life in the street, the occasional passing vehicle, dim street lights, and joggers.
However, it's still bizarrely quiet.
Arman adds, "It seems like this whole thing with Jon McMahon will likely change how Plaintry's Kindred interact with the mortals. And that change might not necessarily be for the best, if you get what I'm saying."
Ginny narrows her eyes and asks, "How so? It'll just be a regular fire. Fire trucks couldn't get there on time due to the crazy traffic. Shit happens. Thoughts and prayers blah blah blah, whatever. The McMahons are gone. National day of mourning yada yada yada."
Arman sternly responds, "You don't understand, Ginny, there WILL be an investigation regardless of the official narrative. As such, we will need to make sure we're ready to handle any...complication that inevitably arises."
Ginny waves her hand nonchalantly, "Then, we'll handle it."
She adds, "If all goes well, no one will even suspect a thing. They certainly WON'T suspect vampires, haha!"
Arman, still troubled, sighs and responds, "There will be a lot of questions regardless. I suspect that agencies integrated into the SI or vice versa will be involved in the investigation- the FBI in particular. It will not only be a grave violation of the Masquerade but it would also throw a wrench in our plans."
Ginny incredulously asks, "So, what...we call of the attack? Hmmmm?"
She chuckles, "Simon's not gonna like that one bit," she playfully wiggles her finger as she says that.
Arman shakes his head and mutters, "N--No of course not. Simon...has his mind set on this. We'll have to proceed with caution. That is all I'm saying, Ginny. I hope I've been clear enough."
He rubs his chin and looks around Ginny's Haven.
She looks at him with a smile. They share a moment of silence, each thinking about the next few nights and how they'll pan out.
Ginny gets up and says, "Well, I...uh don't wanna end this awkwardly, but I got your painting all ready and waiting for you, big guy." She gives him a wink.
Arman nods, "Yes, of course. I will remind Rolf to procure the cash as you requested. I've just been so busy these past few nights." He gets up and walks towards the door.
Before he leaves, he turns back, "I do not mean to sound cold, but please be aware that if anything happens...or if even one McMahon manages to...survive, there will be consequences. For all of us. They are a deeply influential family in these parts."
He sighs, "Not that I have any doubts about your Clan's capability, Ginny. Just...tread cautiously." He opens the door to leave and looks back at her.
Ginny replies, "Sure, sure."
Arman waves goodbye and closes the door behind him.
Ginny chuckles to herself, "We're gonna have us some fun in a couple nights, huh? Heh, oh, yeah, we're gonna have ourselves a little party."
Rolf brings the car around and Arman heads back home, a disturbed look overshadows his face and the journey is spent staring out the window, silently.
The Ventrue is still coming to terms with the events of tonight, and the events yet to come.
Meanwhile...
Eleanor's SUV pulls up to a strange-looking structure in the middle of the woods. It's a long and narrow building, with a small courtyard at one end.
Eleanor steps out of her car and greets the other Tremere who have arrived before her. She is wearing a black ankle-length skirt along with a white blouse.
The building's walls are made of white brick, and the courtyard is filled with various incenses and spices, giving off an eldritch aura.
The entrance to the building is made of black cobblestones, and it's hard to tell what lies beyond the threshold.
However, Eleanor knows that this is the meeting place of Tremere Elders and Regents from nearby towns and counties.
She steps through the threshold and into the building.
Inside, it's dark and grimy. A solid black and white pyramid hovers in the middle of the room, likely built centuries ago. The ceiling is high, and the windows are covered with thick, black curtains.
The smell of incense and spice still lingers in the air, but it's mixed with a hint of must and decay.
From the top, the room is shaped like its centerpiece- a pyramid. The floor is tiled, and there are marked spots arranged in a circle around the pyramid. Eleanor takes her designated spot and awaits the others.
The other important Tremere roll in and walk to their respective marked spots.
As the remaining Tremere pour into the room and stand back in the corner, the pyramid begins to glow, casting a strange, reddish light on the room.
A figure, hooded in crimson robes, steps a few inches forward from their marked spot and begins to speak in a language that none can understand.
After a few minutes of this, the pyramid stops glowing, and the hooded figure steps back into their marked spot.
A reverberating and thunderous voice echoes throughout the room, "Eleanor. What is it that thou seekest from the Pyramid tonight? Speak!"
Eleanor places her hand on her chest and bows her head, "I seek to Embrace someone into our great and mighty Clan. Her name is Maya, and she possesses unique potential."
Another voice booms, "And what potential doth this creature possess? Speak!"
Eleanor raises her head and says, "She has shown strong will and determination. However, she is still young and inexperienced, but with proper teaching, she could become a force to be reckoned with."
Some other Tremere, likely Ghouls, Ancillas, or Neonates, huddle close to each other, whispering and murmuring amongst themselves.
The pyramid starts to glow sporadically, and a figure in crimson speaks, "Eleanor. We sense...a disturbance inside of you. Tell us, what troubles you?"
Eleanor sighs, "I am afraid that my Embracing of Maya may draw the ire of the Lasombra Clan. They have implied their displeasure. I fear that there is perhaps a plot underway to undermine our efforts or worse..."
The pyramid glows again, and a third voice roars, "The Abyss Mystics are of no threat to us. We have dealt with their kind before and will continue to do so. Do not fear them, Eleanor."
Eleanor gets down on her knees, slits her wrists with her claws, and stretches out her hands to let her blood flow onto the tiled floor.
She cries out, "I have come here in good faith, with the best of intentions. I only seek to do that which is best for our Clan. For our great and venerable House."
Eleanor's Vitae gently trickles to the floor.
The murmuring from the back grows a little louder.
The pyramid glows again, and a fourth voice speaks, "SILENCE! Eleanor, thou mayest Embrace Maya as long as THOU takest responsibility for her deeds and doth ensure that she doth not bring shame to the name of the Trembling Ones. Tis a most noble quest thou doth undertake."
The others in the back stand in complete pin-drop silence.
The voice continues, "Thou first Childe, Lucile hath shown great mastery of the Blood, and hath yet to displease us. Now, Maya shalt be added to the ranks of the Pyramid. Let the Lasombra beware, for we shalt not cower in their shadows any longer!"
3 more voices join the other 4 and command, "REGENTS!"
In unison, the Tremere standing on the marked spots step forward and prostrate themselves before the pyramid.
A thundering voice echoes throughout the room, "Eleanor of Plaintry. Dost thou vow, in the presence of the Regents, to teach and transmit ALL knowledge and secrets of the Blood to Maya? Speak!"
Eleanor replies, "Yes, I do so vow."
The voices say, "Very well, we grant thee the power and authority to Embrace Maya as thy Childe. Go now, and may the Pyramid bring enlightenment and guidance to thy path."
The voices recede, and the pyramid stops glowing.
The room goes back to what it was, and Eleanor stands up. One of the Regents nods to Eleanor and asks her to follow him.
The man is a bit short, almost as old as Eleanor herself- which is very old. He has a bit of a squeaky voice. His beard is gray and long. He's wearing a long, red robe that trails behind him.
The robe is covered in all sorts of strange and esoteric symbols, some of which are a bit faded, most likely due to too much washing or dry-cleaning.
As they walk down to the lower level of this unusual structure, he starts speaking to her.
Theodore says, "It has been a while since we meet again, Eleanor. The last time you sought approval for an Embrace was nearly 2 decades ago. How is dear Lucile by the way? I hear she has grown quite powerful in the dark arts of the Blood."
Eleanor nods, "She's doing well, Theodore. And how are you keeping, old friend? It's been years since I've seen you in person." She gently pats him on the back.
He chuckles, "The Blood is strong in me, Eleanor. I have been busy thwarting many a plan of the Second Inquisition and their lackeys. They have been trying to root out and exterminate our kind. It's not easy work in times such as this, but it's rewarding nonetheless."
Eleanor softly smiles, "I'm glad to hear that, Theodore. And I thank you for your help in approving my Embrace of Maya." She gives him a slight bow.
Theodore shakes his head, "Oh, it's nothing. I, for one, am glad to see our Clan growing stronger. The Lasombra, however, appear to be up to something. I suggest that you keep an eye on them." His voice drops to a whisper when he says that.
"I'm beginning to suspect the same thing, Theodore. The Abyss Mystics have been unusually quiet ever since their defection to the Camarilla. We haven't had any major skirmishes with them in a while." Her eyes narrow, and she clenches her fists.
Theodore stops and turns towards her, "You still haven't quite forgotten that night, have you, my dear?"
He gently shakes his head, "A terrible night, indeed. It was then that I realized what we were up against."
Eleanor pensively stares at the floor and sighs, "Yes, it was a ghastly night, Theodore. Lucile was just a Fledgling. I still cannot believe we defeated them. If you hadn't shown up when you did--" she looks at him, and her eyes grow misty.
She quickly wipes away a tear of blood.
Theodore nods, "Yes, it was quite a close call, my dear. But you are still with us, and so is Lucile."
Eleanor continues, "They were too powerful to destroy...I still fear that they will emerge from their graves and exact revenge. I do not know why Lucile choses to stay in that damned cottage."
She sighs, looks at him, and places her hand on his shoulder, "But, in any case, I am thankful that you...intervened when you did."
Theodore grips her hand tightly, "Eleanor. We must put aside our fears and focus on the task at hand. Our Clan is in a very precarious position right now. Chantries all over America are being viciously destroyed. The fires of the Second Inquisition, the rage of the Anarchs, and yes, even the machinations of the Sabbat are being stoked. We must be ready for anything, Eleanor. Anything..." his voice trails off.
He shakes his head and looks at her.
He opens the door to a room and beckons Eleanor to go in first, "As much as I hate to say it, the Camarilla is the best chance for our Clan's continued survival."
He shuts the door behind him and looks at her. The room the 2 are in is quite cold. It's got a few chairs and a table. A small, orange lightbulb hanging from the ceiling gives the room a bit of light. There are no windows.
There are 2 large industrial freezers on either side of the room. The walls are made of concrete, and the floor is cold and littered with a few splotches of various liquids. The air in the room is stale and dry.
The room smells like a mixture of old, cold, and rust.
And blood. Dried or otherwise.
Theodore walks over to one of the freezers, opens it and hands Eleanor an insulated chiller ice box, "Here you go. It's kept well insulated and cool."
He smiles at her, "Now, be careful with that, it's quite potent, as you know."
He opens the box and reveals its contents- 7 vials of Blood. Eleanor's face is hit with a blast of cold air from the freezer. She brushes it off. The Blood smells sweet and tangy, with a hint of spice.
The inside of the box has all sorts of runes and ancient writings, some glow, while others don't. The writing is in no language Eleanor can understand.
She grabs the box and holds it tightly. She stares at it for a moment, lost in thought.
Theodore shuts the freezer.
He instructs her, "After the Embrace, make sure Maya takes 1 vial every 21 minutes. After that, she might experience some lightheadedness. This is perfectly normal for Fledglings. I've got other matters to attend to now. Good luck, my dear. It was really lovely to see you again after such a long time."
He smiles again, and they hug each other before he lets her out of the room.
The other Tremere don't seem interested in socializing too much and begin to file out, leaving Eleanor alone with her thoughts.
She says goodbye to the keeper of this place and holds on the box tightly as she walks back to her car. She puts the box in the passenger seat and tells the driver to take them home.
She's got a lot to think about. A lot to ponder.
The Embrace is not far away now.
At the back of her mind she asks herself whether it's all the right decision or is she doing it just to appease Lucile and save Maya from death for potentially breaching the Masquerade.
She rolls the window down to let some of the fresh air in. She looks out into the night sky, and it feels like everything has changed. Eleanor wonders how many nights it will be until things start to unravel.
As if they weren't already unraveling...
Then, Eleanor hears a faint sound. A humming. It's a soft and melodious hum. A female voice. A child's voice. It seems to be coming from nowhere and everywhere all at once. Eleanor starts to feel dizzy.
The driver looks at Eleanor through the rearview mirror and looks back at the road again.
The humming grows louder. The voices turn from singing into agonizing screams and cries for help. Eleanor covers her ears and shuts her eyes. The car swerves and comes to a halt. The driver looks back and asks Eleanor if she's OK.
"Yes, yes, I'm...fine. Just keep driving, Laszlo."
Laszlo nods, "Yes, ma'am." He starts the car up again and continues their journey.
Eleanor leans back and closes her eyes. The humming is still going on, but not as intense as before.
She sighs and looks back out the window.
Immediately, a thought enters her mind. She puts the ice box on her lap and opens it. The humming continues as soon as the lid is opened. She examines the contents of the box.
One of the vials appears to have a strange, orangey hue to it. Eleanor picks up the vial, removes the stopper and takes a whiff.
Without hesitation or second thought, she gulps it down.
Yikes.
The humming dims, and Eleanor starts to feel a little better. Relieved, almost. She feels this extremely potent blood coursing through her veins. She tosses the empty vial out onto the road, and it shatters into tiny fragments.
Laszlo gives Eleanor another look through the rearview mirror.
He asks, "Everything alright back there?"
"Do not worry, just keep driving."
"Yes, ma'am."
The temptation is too strong. The Blood too sweet. Too calming. The old woman picks up another vial from the box. She opens it and brings it up to her lips. The humming is picking up again. So, she drinks it.
2 down, how many more to go?
The feeling of power and quasi-blissful ecstasy fills her entire body. Eleanor closes her eyes. The humming rears its head yet again. But Eleanor doesn't care. She drinks a 3rd vial.
2 more vials are tossed out onto the road.
Eleanor looks at the 4 remaining vials and decides that it's enough.
Or is it?
Eleanor opens a 4th vial, but she just sniffs it. It smells...divine. She takes a sip but doesn't finish the whole thing. The humming is suppressed.
For now, at least.
She places the half-empty vial in the box and slams it shut.
She then places the box back on the passenger seat. Eleanor closes her eyes, leans back, and lets the car take her home.
There's a feeling of guilt lingering around Eleanor. What she did is more than enough to warrant Final Death. But, that humming, that damn humming had to be stopped. The Beckoning is getting worse for her.
Worse yet, she hadn't told anyone or pretended that she hadn't been Beckoned yet.
What would happen when it finally reached a tipping point? Would she give in? What if she couldn't resist? What if she goes into a Frenzy and lets the Beast take over?
Or worse. What if she gives in and becomes a Wight?
Sure, she looks old from the outside (and is old, both in mortal and Kindred terms) but vampires pack a lot of strength in those bodies.
Eleanor is no exception. And she's a powerful one who's been through a lot.
Her recent lapses in memory haven't been helping either. At first it was just simple and innocuous. Forgetting to close the faucet, forgetting a face, forgetting which direction the key moves when unlocking the front door.
But then it got a little more serious. Forgetting where she placed her keys, forgetting important dates, and even forgetting people's names.
And now she's slowly starting to forget entire conversations. She can't be sure when it began or when it will end.
Something is wrong. Something is very wrong.
It's been chipping away at her for YEARS now, but has gotten steadily worse in the past few months. But what could it be? And more importantly, who do you tell about this?
Assuming you don't forget to tell them, that is.
The car rolls up to Eleanor's Haven. Laszlo steps out and holds the door open for Eleanor. He holds her hand as she steps out of the SUV and grabs the ice box. Eleanor smiles and pats him on the shoulder.
She tells him to go get some rest.
He nods.
Eleanor walks into her house and shuts the door. Laszlo places the ice box in the foyer and asks, "Will there be anything else, ma'am?"
"No, that will be all for tonight. Thank you, Leonard."
Woops.
Laszlo doesn't wish to correct her and simply says, "You're welcome, ma'am. Have a good night."
Eleanor waves to him and heads upstairs. She makes her way to her room and shuts the door behind her. She places the ice box on the table and sits down.
Eleanor pulls out an old, slightly dusty tome and begins flipping through the pages. It's a book containing various incantations and rituals. She reads through each page carefully, smiling every now and then.
After a few minutes of this, she gently closes the book and puts it away.
Eleanor goes downstairs to her porch and sits on her rocking chair. The sky is dark and starry.
Eleanor closes her eyes, letting her fragmented mind wander. She thinks about the past, present, and future.
Her long (un)life. Her struggles. Her accomplishments. Her failures. Most of it comes flooding back to her.
She's done many things in her time on this planet. Things that she's not proud of. Things that she's ashamed of. But most importantly, things that she's not sure if she should be proud of or ashamed of.
And all of it on behalf of the Clan she belongs to.
Long before Lucile's Embrace, Eleanor facilitated ritualistic Diableries, destroyed rogue covens (or those thought to have gone rogue), and even executed those who didn't live up to the Tremere's high (and oft-times) unfairly arbitrary standards.
The list isn't exactly pretty. But, then again, which Elder Kindred's list is?
Eleanor, through her own failing mind, looks back on these deeds. She's not sure whether to be proud of them or not. On one hand, they helped ensure the survival of her Clan, and for that, she can feel somewhat good about it.
Then again, how much of her recollections are real versus imagined memories?
However, on the other hand, Eleanor's participated in things that would make even the most hardened and callous of Kindred sick to their (mostly non-functioning) stomachs. And that's just what she's willing to admit to herself.
Who knows what other atrocities she's committed in the name of the Pyramid?
Or under the influence of the Beast?
And how many more will she commit in the future? Is she even capable, given her...present condition?
Either way, Eleanor rocks on her chair back and forth, knowing that there's a high chance she'll forget most of this night when she wakes up again.
So, she decides to make the best of it. She sings a soft lullaby to herself. It's a song her father used to sing to her when she was a child. Her voice cracks and wavers, but it doesn't matter. She needs this.
Her voice grows louder as the song progresses. And soon enough, she's singing with all her heart. Her voice becomes less cracked and more steady.
Her singing becomes less like a sad, broken woman, and more like a woman full of joy and optimism.
At least, for the time being.
She looks out into the night sky and smiles.
In many ways, Lucile's Embrace changed Eleanor. Eleanor was now responsible for the actions of her Childe. It was no longer just Eleanor who would bear the brunt of any mistakes. Now, her Childe would bear some of that burden.
This, in turn, made Eleanor consider her priorities more carefully.
She wanted to do the best she could for Lucile, even if it meant sacrificing some of her own desires and ambitions. She loved Lucile as if she was her own daughter.
Eleanor was happy, and for the first time in her very long existence, she felt that her Unlife had some semblance of meaning.
The aspiring, Harvard-educated molecular biochemist was a hard one to train, at first. Lucile had a very different view of the world; she viewed it as a cold and uncaring place.
She believed that people were only out for themselves and that you should do what you can to protect yourself.
In all fairness to Lucile, the 90s were rough. A time largely about nothing but the self-interest, materialism, and shallowness of the prior decade hitting a fever pitch.
Eleanor couldn't really blame Lucile for thinking the way she did.
However, Eleanor knew that if Lucile wanted to survive in Kindred Society, a...different outlook was needed. Lucile's education in not only the ways of the Kindred, but also in the ways of Clan Tremere, was a long and arduous process.
Lucile began to understand that the only way she was going to make it was by working together with others. She began to see the world in a more nuanced way.
With Eleanor's patient instruction, she became less jaded and more open-minded. She saw that people (not just Kindred but mortals too) could (and should) care for each other and work together for a common goal.
And that there were people who would help her in her journey, provided she helped them as well.
And while she never truly lost that drive and single-minded determination that led her to be Embraced, she was now more willing to work with others and help them in return.
As she gained power and and mastery over the Blood, she became a lot less selfish and more concerned with the greater good.
However, decades of being locked away in a cottage lab with minimal social interaction (in addition to not so great social skills) have left Lucile with...some quirks.
She does tend to keep to herself more often than not, but she is not afraid to step up when needed.
In fact, she prefers to step up and get things done. She is fiercely loyal to those she cares about, and she is even willing to go great lengths to protect them.
And, there's one person that Lucile cares about a lot right now- Maya. Ever since that night at the gala and the amazing time they've been having since then, the 2 have become quite close (but not as close as either would like).
But it's more than just physical intimacy. It's a connection. A bond. An understanding. A deep and unyielding desire to protect each other.
The 90s were different, and finding love for someone like Lucile was...well, difficult. Even before her Embrace, she was a bit of a loner, always obsessed with her studies and research.
And with the way Kindred society works, it's no wonder she never really had any lasting romantic relationships after her Embrace.
There were a few failed attempts at grabbing a kiss here and there, but that flopped almost immediately. And the last time she tried to do the horizontal boogie with someone was...awkward (and messy).
However, her current...fling with Maya has made her feel lighter. More open. More receptive. Less...insecure.
It's given her a new "lease on life", even if it's just in a figurative sense.
It's awakened something in her that's been dormant for a long time. A yearning. A longing. A desire. She wants this to work. She wants this to last. She wants Maya to stay with her and to be with her.
Maya, in all likelihood, feels the same way.
It's now 2 AM, the sun rises in a few hours.
Eleanor gets up from her chair and heads inside. She walks upstairs to her room, changes her clothes, grabs a book from her shelf, and lies down on her bed.
She reads for a while and eventually heads downstairs to where her landline phone is.
It's an old, scratched, teal rotary phone that she picked up from a pawn shop a few years ago. It works as well as one could expect, and it's kinda bulky. But, she likes the way it looks.
It gives a certain...vintage feel to the place.
It also helps that it's not being too monitored by the SI's goons (compared to more...modern forms of communication).
She picks it up and rotates the dial a few times until she reaches the number she's looking for. She holds the receiver to her ear.
After a few rings, a familiar voice answers, "He-llo?" It's Lucile. She sounds...cheery, like she was expecting this call.
Eleanor speaks, "I have everything. Bring Maya to your cottage. Tomorrow is the night, Lucile. It will be your responsibility to ease her in prior. I trust everything will go smoothly tomorrow. Goodnight."
Lucile stands in the middle of her bedroom and jumps up and down as a smile beams on her face, "Oh my god, Oh my god, Oh my god! Thank you, thank you, yes, yes, yes--"
She can barely contain her excitement. One only hopes Maya feels the same way.
Either way, it's happening. It's really fucking happening. Maya is going to be Embraced into the Clan Tremere. And not just any part of Clan Tremere, but a secret order within House Tremere- The Children of the Pyramid.
Hence, the...strange ritual earlier in the evening.
Eleanor cuts in, "This is serious, Lucile. Tomorrow night, Maya will become OUR responsibility. She will barely be a Fledgling, and you are experienced. As such, It will be our sacred duty to ensure her safety and wellbeing. We MUST help her understand the ways of our Clan. And, more importantly, the ways of the Pyramid."
Lucile nods, "Yes...yes, of course. I'll uh, show her the ropes."
She pauses, "And the fangs..." Her voice trails off, and she starts to think about all the cool stuff she's going to do with Maya once she becomes a vampire.
And all the sexy stuff, too.
And that's not even the best part! The best part is that Maya will be one of them! Well, one of the Tremere at least. She can't wait to share all the secrets she's learned over the years with Maya.
Lucile deeply sighs, however. Whatever fun the 2 might have would likely be cut short as Lucile's got the task of Kindred courier, seeing that the last one got wasted.
She knows that she doesn't have much say in the matter, but it's too late now.
Lucile was in the middle of doing cardio when the phone rang, so she's a bit sweaty right now.
A little blood from her workout is seeping through her shirt, and her hair is a mess.
Eleanor inquires, "Is something the matter, dear? You seem troubled." Her voice is stern but still gentle. It's like an old, tired teacher speaking to her favorite student.
Lucile's voice is almost shaky, "I'm just...nervous, I guess. I really want this to work out. I don't...I don't--"
Lucile starts crying, sanguine tears start to flow down her cheeks. She falls to her knees and starts sobbing uncontrollably. Eleanor can hear the crying through the phone.
It's the saddest thing she's heard in a long time.
In between sobs, Lucile asks, "What--what if Maya doesn't wanna be with me af--after she gets Embraced?"
Lucile takes a deep breath, "What if...wha--what if. Oh my god, what if she resists?! Oh, Eleanor..."
Lucile continues to sob, and her voice becomes incoherent.
Eleanor patiently waits until Lucile calms down, "Lucile, dear. I assure you. Everything is going to be alright. If Maya does not wish to be with you after the Embrace, I will speak to her personally. I will ensure that everything goes as planned." Her voice is warm and soothing.
Lucile sniffles, "You...you'd do that...for me?" Her voice cracks a little. She wipes the bloody tears from her face, leaving red streaks across her cheeks and nose.
She's been trying to work on her insecurities and anxiety, but sometimes, the fear wins out.
"Yes, of course, Lucile. After all we've been through, you know that I care about you deeply. I know that you and Maya are very close, and I do not wish to see either of you unhappy."
Lucile sniffs and wipes away another tear, "Thank you, Eleanor. I don't...I don't know what to say." She stands up and sighs. She's a bit embarrassed.
Eleanor speaks softly, "There's nothing to be said. I've known you ever since your first hour as a Fledgling. And I will be here for you no matter what happens. Even though you will be with Maya for a short while after her Embrace, cherish every moment."
Eleanor continues, "Have faith. A proper replacement will be dispatched once you have completed your duties. I assure you, I will do my utmost to ensure that Maya is safe in your absence. It will only be a matter of weeks before you're together again. Now, go, take care of yourself, dear. Prepare yourself for the road ahead." She smiles.
Lucile smiles and nods, "Yes...ju--just a few weeks. Nothing more. I can do this." She breathes heavily and tries to calm down.
She gulps down some blood from a nearby bottle.
She's still a bit shaken, but she's determined to get through this. For Maya.
"I must go now, Lucile. It is almost daybreak, and I need to rest. I suggest you do the same."
"Y...yeah sure. Goodnight, Eleanor. A--And thank you. For everything."
"Goodnight, Lucile." Eleanor hangs up the phone and heads upstairs to bed.
Tomorrow is the night. The night that Maya becomes one of the Kindred.
What will happen? Only a few know.
But one thing's for sure: things are gonna get interesting.
At the same time as all this is transpiring, a plane lands in an airport miles away from the town of Plaintry. Multiple figures step out of the airplane.
One of them breaths deeply, "Ah, the smell. It's been too long." A smirk appears upon his lips.
"I've never been here before, this should be exciting," a female's voice says. She looks around, taking in the sights.
"There is work to be done here. A disease that needs to be cleansed from these lands," a deep and masculine voice speaks.
"Let's get moving, then," a tall woman declares as she stretches her arms and legs.
"I can already sense those tainted leeches. Many, however, still linger in the old country. Why here? Why now?"
The deep and masculine voice cuts in, "All will be revealed in due time, cub."
The first male's voice says, "Others will be joining us in this glorious hunt."
"Hmph."
"Excellent."
"Fun."
They're here.
Chapter 7: Embrace
3 AM. Sunrise is just a few hours away.
Lucile has a pair of glasses on- she's studying various route maps and plans, making a note of any abandoned buildings she can possibly sleep in during the day in case motels or hotels are out of the question.
She puts her glasses on her head and rubs her temples. She's been at this for nearly 45 minutes and is starting to get tired. The sun is rising, and she needs to be in bed soon.
She grabs her phone and checks her messages. There's still messages from Maya that she has to respond to.
It's too late for a call, so she taps away on the virtual keyboard: "Heyyyyy! Sry 4 msg'ing u so late, was tied up w/ work stuff. Listen, u free? Come by my place 2nite. Got a biiiiiig surprise 4 u :D" She presses send.
Lucile sighs, "Well, that's that, I guess. Hope she's not gonna get freaked out or anything. If she is, I'll just have to...change her mind somehow."
Lucile shuffles some things on her table, "Somehow."
She rolls the maps up, puts them in a cabinet and heads to her basement where her bed is. She lays down and eventually falls asleep. Who knows, next night, she'll have someone new day-sleeping right beside her.
Fingers crossed.
As Eleanor prepares for day-sleep, she's still feeling the effects of the vials she drank last night, but it's slowly fading away. She's getting a bit anxious.
She's trying to keep her composure, but she can't help but think of getting some relief.
Any relief. Anything to stop that humming. Her body and mind are in a state of constant flux.
But it's too late to dip into the semi-depleted vials of Blood meant for Maya. After struggling for a while, Eleanor eventually succumbs to day-slumber, like many other Kindred.
Meanwhile, Maya is fast asleep in her bed, blissfully unaware that this could very well be her last time as a mere mortal.
Maya phone goes off, "Ding!" which stirs her awake. She quickly checks the time. It's about 4 AM. She's groggy and wants nothing more than to go back to sleep. But the message is quite clear.
It's Lucile, asking her to come over to her place tonight.
Maya is too tired to speak, "Hmphggg. Cool. Ca...Can't wait. Should be fun. Ah, Lucile..."
She dozes back off to sleep again.
The sun invariably rises, and the night falls. Mortals awaken, and vampires sleep.
It's 8 AM. Maya wakes up from her sleep and starts getting ready. She's clearly excited about this "big surprise" Lucile has in store for her.
Little does she know how her ENTIRE world would be turned upside down...
It's now 9 AM, Maya is all ready. Freshly showered, hair washed and nicely done up, clothes picked out, makeup on, she looks stunning. She's got a cute black and white dress on with a pink cardigan and a pair of sneakers.
Even though there's plenty of time, she's looking forward to what this "surprise" could be.
Speculation begins to make its way into Maya's mind. She's thinking about it over and over again. Some of her theories involve various forms of romantic or sexual experiences. However, she's not sure what it could be.
Maybe it could be a nice, home-cooked meal? Yeah, right. Either way, she's excited and can't wait.
She's at the café, picking out some doughnuts and ordering 2 cups of coffee. 1 with cream and extra sugar and 1 the way Annette likes it- black with no sugar.
She takes a sip of the coffee, the caffeine and (extra) sugar jolt her awake. She then takes a bite of her glazed doughnut.
While Maya is munching down on her snack, the café is already beginning to fill up.
In walks Annette, who's dressed in a black long sleeve button-up shirt, blue jeans, and her favorite pair of sneakers.
She's got her hair tied back in a ponytail and a pair of sunglasses on her face.
Maya looks up and smiles, "Hey, Annette, you're here!" She stands up and waves at her.
Annette waves back, "Hey, Maya! So, how are you doing today? How are you feeling?"
Maya's winces a bit, "Eh, as well as you'd expect, heh heh. Anyways, I gotta tell you something. Here, sit down."
She motions for Annette to sit down. Maya sits next to her and sips her coffee.
Maya beams with excitement, "Well, I've got a message from Lucile. She told me to meet her tonight. She says she's got a 'big surprise' for me! I'm so excited!"
Annette nods, "Yep, sure is. Wait, did she say what time she was meeting you?"
"She didn't say, but it's gonna be late, I guess."
"Oh, alright. Well, that's...pretty nice. I'm glad you'll have some more time with her. You 2 seem crazy about each other, heh."
Maya grins, "I know, right? It's great. I--I don't wanna jinx it, but what do you think this surprise is? Go on, give it your best guess!"
Annette gives her a knowing glance and leans in to whisper, "Well, I have a few ideas. Maybe she wants you to...well, move in? You said she's got a cottage, right?"
Maya's face lights up, "I hadn't thought about that. Whoa, it's all going so fast. We just met, but it feels like I've known her for years. It's...well, it's not everyday you find someone who you can...really connect with, y'know."
Lucile sighs, "Yep, tell me about it."
Maya takes a deep breath and continues, "It's also nice having someone who you know you can be yourself with. Someone who listens and doesn't judge."
Annette sips her coffee, "That's a pretty interesting way to describe it. You haven't been telling her about your crazy vampire theories, have you?"
Maya blushes and chuckles, "Yeah, well, uh..."
"Oh, my god. Maya, please. Please tell me you haven't."
"I was just trying to keep her interested. You know how I get when I'm excited. I just wanna make sure that I'm not bothering her. And--and she didn't seem bothered by any of it! Honest!"
Annette shakes her head, "She was probably feigning interest so she wouldn't hurt your feelings. That's what people do, Maya."
Maya stammers and is at a loss for words, "N...no, but...she--she was really interested, I swear."
Annette finishes up her coffee and wipes her mouth with a napkin, "OK, OK, OK, OK. I'm not gonna get in the way of your crazy, Maya. But don't come crying to me if she decides to break things up because of your tinfoil hat."
Maya is a bit taken aback, "B--But...I'm serious, Annette. I think I'm in love."
Annette rolls her eyes, "Ugh, please don't. Look, I'm happy you 2 met and all, but I wouldn't take it that far, OK? Let's just be cool about this."
Maya snaps back, "Look, just because you're unlucky and unhappy doesn't mean the rest of us are, too. You need to stop living in your own little fantasy world, Annette!"
Annette lowers her voice and sneers, "You're one to talk."
Maya is having none of it, "I've let you step over me for too long and call me names! I'm done with it!"
Annette gets up, "Whatever, Maya. You're just being a bitch. Again."
She starts to walk away.
Maya stands up and follows her outside, "HEY, you don't get to walk away from me! Not after all I've done for you!"
Annette stops and turns around, "And what about all the shit I've DONE FOR YOU, huh? Like helping your sorry ass after you got 'sick' because you thought 'vampires' bit you? You're lucky I was even there that fucking afternoon!"
This is turning into a full-on commotion and the people nearby, both inside and outside the café, are starting to take notice.
Annette continues, "Or how about the time I picked you up when you were high as a fucking kite after you got kicked out for flashing your boobs at a bar?"
Maya's face is beet red, "At least I didn't have fucking con-artists for parents who lavished their little princess with all the money in...in the world, AND, AND, AND, didn't have to beg for a job every other week just to keep a roof over her head!"
Yikes.
Annette fires back, "You think my life's been easy?! At least I KNEW who my parents were, unlike you! Growing up in shitty orphanages and getting bounced from foster home to foster home like some live grenade, because let's face it, that's what YOU are and will ALWAYS be!"
Maya stands there, in shock, as tears begin to stream down her face, "Y...you don't mean that. Y--You can't." Her voice is wavering. She's struggling to hold back the tears.
Annette continues, "You're just a sad, immature, delusional girl who's incapable of taking off her rose-tinted glasses and looking life right in the fuckin' eye. I'm sick of it, Maya. I'm SICK of your bullshit. We're through, got it? Good. I hope Lucile can put up with your volatility!"
Maya responds with force, "Well at least I have SOMEONE! What the fuck have you got, Annette? Your little fling didn't work out with Bernice, so you think you got the right to trample all over MY happiness?!" Her voice cracks as she points an accusing finger at Annette.
Shots fired, shots fired.
Heads in the crowd slowly turn when Maya blurted out the mayoral candidate's name. This is getting ugly, and quickly.
Some people are already recording the entire exchange.
Annette lowers her voice and menacingly says, "You bitch...You better shut your fuckin' mouth right now, or I'll..." she clenches her fist. Annette is visibly upset, as are most of the people in the crowd.
This isn't going well.
Some random person blurts out, "Holy shit!"
Maya looks back at her, "Or you'll what, huh? Yeah, let's get it all out, huh?"
She looks around the crowd and declares, "SHE slept with the mayoral candidate, how's that for a scoop?!"
More people start recording the confrontation. Some look shocked. Others are tantalized, eager for more.
And some are just plain angry. At the situation, and at the arguing duo.
It's an emotional minefield.
Annette is red in the face, caught off guard by Maya revealing that...piece of info that was supposed to be a secret.
Annette starts nervously laughing, "You really wanna do this, huh?"
Maya clenches her teeth.
Annette stretches out her hands, as if inviting the crowd to watch, "Alright, alright, you want a fucking story? How about this? This bitch, this ungrateful, lowlife BITCH believes that vampires bite her at night and take her blood! Can YOU believe that?! HUH?! This supposedly grown-ass woman actually thinks that!"
Certain parts of the crowd erupt into laughter and jeering. More people are taking pictures and recording videos.
The whole town will see this. There's no doubt about that.
A random person shouts, "Was it Dracula?!" More snickering and jeering. Some people are clearly enjoying the spectacle, while others are simply shocked and disturbed.
Never-ending tears are streaming down Maya's cheeks. She's trying her best to not burst out crying. She tries to speak, but all she can muster are stammering noises and a few incoherent phrases.
Of course, Maya's...vampire obsession didn't distract the crowd from her revelation about Annette and Bernice. And while a few are more understanding than others, many are clearly displeased.
It's not every day that you find out a local mayoral candidate has sex with the woman interviewing her.
And with a reporter for Nimbus magazine, no less; a magazine that means something to the people of this town. Subscriptions will undoubtedly be cancelled.
Regardless, this is juicy stuff, indeed. And not the good kind.
In fact, it's kinda fucked up.
For a magazine already on the brink, mass subscription cancellations (along with bad bad publicity) could be enough to tip the scales over. This could easily lead to the closure of the magazine.
Some dude from the crowd screams, "Did Bernice do you so you'd write a better piece on her?!" Laughter, and more pictures. This is getting worse and worse.
Something has to be done, or it'll end up in a huge mess. And in a very bad way.
Maya is completely broken, the tears flow freely, and her body is wracked with sobs. Her breathing is short and rapid. Her mind is racing. She's in shock.
Annette is still standing there, fuming.
Maya does the only thing to do in such situations- she gets the hell out of there. She pushes through the crowd and runs away. Along the way, her face is streaked with tears. She runs for blocks, eventually slowing down.
She's panting, her lungs burning. She's also sweating profusely.
Annette, meanwhile, doesn't bother giving chase. This will have to be resolved at a later date. Or never. She immediately goes into damage-control mode.
A woman has her phone out, up close and recording.
Annette just grabs it and violently tosses it aside.
"Hey, hey, what the hell?!" the woman shouts, and a small scuffle breaks out. Annette manages to knock her opponent to the ground and quickly leaves the scene. She's got bigger fish to fry.
Or deny.
As she's put some distance between herself and the café, Annette gets a call on her phone. She takes one look at the caller ID.
Shit. It's out. Already.
Edgar, Annette's boss, is on the other end, "Annette, have you 2 lost your minds?! You do know how BAD this is, don't you?!" His voice is shaking.
He's livid.
Before Annette can say anything, he continues, "Look, what you get up to and who you do it with is not my concern, but you do know that this--this was very unprofessional and in breach of numerous journalistic ethics, don't you? Do you have ANY idea what this is gonna do to the magazine?!" His voice is filled with dread.
He pauses for a second.
Annette is about to say something when Edgar interrupts again, "Annette, I know you, and I know Maya. You're both good people. Talented. Especially you. But this...I--I don't know how we're gonna recover from this." He sighs. Deeply.
Annette speaks, her voice is soft, "I...I can explain, Edgar."
Edgar dryly says, "I'm all ears." There's a long pause, which is filled with a deep silence.
Eventually, he sighs and says, "I don't know if I'll be able to do anything, Annette, but I'll try my best."
Annette clears her throat and says, "Nothing happened during or before the interview. I swear. I only went to...see Bernice later in the night. We were...well, I don't feel comfortable talking about it. It was a rough night."
Annette even says, whether out of naivety or desperation, " Y...you can ask Bernice--"
Edgar interjects, "If YOU don't feel comfortable talking about it, I doubt SHE would talk much either." His voice is grim.
There's an air of finality in his tone.
He sighs and continues, "In the meantime, please come to the office. You and Maya. We need to...work this out. Together. There's still time. But, whatever happens, I just hope that the both of you can find some solace in the fact that I'll do everything in my power to make sure this doesn't affect your futures."
Annette, still on the line with Edgar, angrily says, "Fuck that bitch. After all I've done for her and this is how she repays me?! I can't believe her. I just can't, Edgar. You gotta fire her!" She pauses.
She's pacing around, trying to calm herself. She can't lose her cool. Not now. But she's fuming, and she can't stop thinking about the events that transpired mere minutes ago.
Edgar tries to calm her down, "Well, uh...I'll try. But, you know the company policy, Annette. It's not entirely up to me to make the final call." He takes a deep breath.
He doesn't sound very confident.
"What's ironic is...I'm holding the 400th issue in my hands right now. I came into the office early today. This was supposed to be our saving grace. Your moment, Annette...I'm so sorry. I don't know...what else to say." His voice trails off.
Annette, trying not to get too worked up, says, "This isn't fair, Edgar. This was supposed to be our break. MY big one. An exclusive with...with ugh, I can't even say her name anymore. Fuck. This wasn't supposed to happen. It's...it's not my fault, damnit!"
Her voice is shaky.
"Well, you and Maya are going to have a lot of time to figure that out, Annette. Oh, god--"
Annette demands, "What is it?! Edgar?!" She's starting to get a bit desperate.
"The Daily Dot has it, too. They've just reached out to us for comment. I don't think we have much of a chance now."
"Fuck, fuck, FUCK! This isn't happening!"
Edgar advises Annette, "You better respond to them. Tell them your side of the story, and try to make it as vague as possible. I don't want you dragged through the mud any further than you already have been. As for Maya, well--"
Annette, her voice breaking, says, "OK, OK, OK. I'm going to go and...talk to them now."
"You 2 have been with us for a while, and we really don't want to lose either of you." However, there is a bit of insincerity in his voice.
Annette replies, "I'll...see you in a bit, Edgar."
"OK, see you."
"Yeah."
The call ends. Annette takes a moment to compose herself, then walks back into her home. On the way, her phone has been going off and vibrating non-stop.
The calls, texts, and social media mentions are coming in fast and furious.
She needs a drink. Now.
She makes her way to her kitchen and grabs a bottle of wine. She takes a swig straight from the bottle, and then another. Her head is pounding, and her vision is blurred.
She's still having trouble believing what just happened. But here it is. Real.
As she drinks the wine, her phone rings. It's an unknown number. She answers.
As expected, it's someone from the Daily Dot, asking for a comment on this situation. She's in no mood to talk, but she has to, lest she's painted in a...less than savory light.
Despite being not-totally-sober, she talks to them for a bit, explaining her side of the story as best she can, "It was entirely consensual and happened when I...when I was off the clock. I assure you, there was no impropriety or unprofessionalism on my part or anyone else's at the magazine. Please, if you would, just allow us some time to sort things out internally."
The person from the Daily Dot thanks her for her time and says they'll be in touch. The call ends.
Annette sits down and takes another swig from the bottle. She's exhausted and frustrated. But she has to keep going. She's got a lot to do.
A lot.
Maya, meanwhile is back in her apartment. Laid flat on her bed, sobbing into her pillow. The entire situation is overwhelming. Her heart is heavy, and her body is tired.
She just wants to sleep and forget about everything. But she knows that won't happen. This isn't a problem that can be solved by sleeping.
Or crying.
Plaintry is what most would call a "sleepy town". Nothing too exciting happens here. National news outlets probably have to remind themselves (or be reminded) of the town's existence every once in a while. It's not that the place is boring. It's not too exciting, either.
It's just mid. Some actually like it like that and who can blame them?
As such, the town's relatively easy-going ways attracted the attention of Kindred fleeing the bigger cities. As the nights went on, it became a sort of oasis for those in search of something...different.
Quiet (ish), serene, and peaceful (mostly).
A place where you can live and just be. A place to relax and just enjoy (un)life.
A place where you can just put the Masquerade on "cruise" mode and enjoy Unlife as a Kindred. Not too much need for hiding, or fearing discovery.
Before they were exiled and Blood Hunted, the Nosferatu were known to pop out of their sewers late in the nights and scare a few kids for laughs, then just go back underground.
Laid back and chill- that was the Masquerade (along with the other Traditions) in Plaintry and the former Prince seemed OK with it- one of the many reasons for his downfall, tragically.
It's no surprise that this...kerfuffle is having a major effect on the town itself. The whole thing is causing quite a stir, as the town's denizens are trying to get a grip on this new information.
This new "revelation" about Bernice and Annette. As it goes without saying, this has put Nimbus Magazine on the hot seat.
A hot seat, literally, as it's about to catch fire. Or, at least, it might as well be.
Worse yet, it's during election season!
Some people are angry. Others are intrigued. Some are sympathetic. Others are disappointed.
And some are simply surprised. Shocked, even.
But what can one say or do when one of their closest friends and fellow employees has been caught in the midst of a scandal like this?
Neither Maya nor Annette are having a great time, that's for sure.
It's a mess. A literal, fucked-up mess. This was not supposed to happen. Ever. But it has. And now, it's just a matter of time before this blows up in their faces. If it hasn't already.
And there's not much that can be done at this point except salvaging what remains. But what remains, is anyone's guess.
Back to Maya...
As much as she wants to get her mind off things, she's been thinking about Lucile, her confrontation with Annette, the whole sordid exchange at the café, and everything that led to this very moment.
As Maya was running back to her place, her phone has just been going off- Ding! Ding! Vibrate. Wait. Longer vibrate. Socials that were once simple notifications of likes and comments are now all about the events at the café.
Tabloid vultures from all over the country are swooping in fast and hard, but thankfully, the town's citizenry is a lot more reasonable than that.
Most people are just...shocked. Others are confused. The rest are...just curious.
Maya holds down the power button, turns off her phone and buries her head in her pillow. It's all too much to take.
Edgar keeps trying her number, but no response.
All Maya wants to do right now is take a bus far away from here and run into Lucile's arms. She misses her. She doesn't care about the big surprise. She just wants to be with her. In her arms. Forever.
Far away from all...this.
Lucile, however, is still in day-sleep and won't be able to offer the comfort that Maya so desperately needs. Hell, she isn't even aware of the fight with Annette.
Edgar calls Maya a few more times. No answer. He's worried. Really worried. He tries her again. And again. No answer. He hangs up, paces around his dingy office, and thinks about his next course of action.
He decides that the best thing to do would be to leave a message on her WhatsApp.
He writes a message and, after a few seconds of hesitation, hits the "send" button.
The message reads: "Maya. Listen, I know this is hard for you, and I want you to know that I'm here for you. I know what a...difficult time this is for you, and I promise we're all gonna sort this out. I won't mince words, what you did was wrong. Although, I'm not sure which is worse at this point. But, you're not a bad person, Maya. I hope you know that. If there's anything I can do to help, you can always call me. We'll sort this out. Together. Take care."
Edgar is really worried about Maya. She's always been a bit of a wild card, but he's never seen her this...distressed. Whatever happened, she's obviously dealing with a lot right now.
One thought that is playing back in Maya's head is this: with Lucile's new "job", how will this affect their blossoming relationship?
It's a scary thought, to say the least.
Maya has been wanting this relationship to work out, and now it might very well be crumbling before her eyes.
And without Lucile, Maya doesn't really have anyone else. She had Annette. HAD. But with the way things just went, Maya is starting to question if she could have ever really trusted her "best friend" in the first place.
Maya had her own issues, yes. But so did Annette. And for a while, she's been trying to ignore it. To bury it.
The dismissiveness, the snide comments about the townspeople, the judgmental looks- it's all been there.
Maya has been ignoring all those cues and telling herself that her friend is just "stressed out". Or "tired".
But no. Princess Annette feels held back in a town of "nobodies". Was Maya just another nobody to Annette?
A means to some imaginary life of wealth? A stepping stone? If so, what did Maya even mean to Annette in the first place?
Maya's not sure about any it. She doesn't know what to think about any of this anymore.
The very thought makes her nauseous.
Her life is slowly spiraling out of control. It's all getting too much, and she just needs some relief. Some peace of mind. And the only person that can give her that is Lucile.
It wasn't before long when Maya slowly drifted off to sleep, her mind filled with worry, dread, and the sound of the town's busy streets.
Annette, however, was drunk and laid out on floor of her bedroom, still trying to comprehend what just happened. She can't believe what's just transpired. None of it. She's also hung-over and a bit disoriented.
Her hair is a mess, spit is dripping down her chin, and her hands and legs are trembling.
She's not sure if she can go through with this.
But she has no choice. Not now. She throws up in the toilet, splashes some water on her face, and tries to pull herself together.
She decides to go and see Bernice.
She knows Bernice will likely be in her campaign HQ.
Which is on the other side of the town, but Annette is absolutely sure Bernice will be there. She needs to talk to her, and the best time to do so would be now.
Annette's clothes are a mess and she smells a bit like spilled wine and vomit but it'll have to do. Time's a-wastin'!
Annette almost falls over as she walks over to her car- clearly the effects of the alcohol haven't entirely worn off. Yikes.
She's still a bit unsure, but she has no choice. It's now or never. As the saying goes, time is a luxury, and she's burning hers like a mumble rapper burning a stack of cash.
She takes a deep breath, her nerves are a bit jittery, and she speeds off.
Eventually, she gets there. Although, she nearly got into an accident and almost drove into a pole on her way there. But she made it.
And, as expected, Bernice is there, in her campaign HQ.
The place is absolute chaos. The medium-sized office is packed with people, running up and down, screaming into the phones and at each other, and writing things down.
There's barely any space to move, coffee is spilt on the floor and no one is too bothered about cleaning it up and the posters have been furiously ripped and crumpled up.
It's hell on earth and the coffee maker in the corner is busted and empty.
Now, it's pandemonium.
Barely anyone even acknowledges or cares to notice Annette when she enters this labyrinth. A few, however do, and simply shoot her a dirty look, curse under their breath, or flip her the bird.
All things considered, not surprising in the least bit.
She walks up to Bernice's office. The door is wide open. Bernice is looking outside the window, hands clasped behind her back, and standing as still as a statue.
Annette can't tell if she's deep in thought or pissed.
Bernice looks over her shoulder. She softly sighs, "Annette. The last person I was expecting. Still, I was wondering when you were going to come crawling back to me. If you ever were."
Bernice shakes her head and continues, "You do realize what you've done, haven't you? You have a lot of nerve showing your face around here, dear." The way she says that last part doesn't seem too kind. Or even honest.
If anything, she sounds disgusted. Betrayed.
Bernice turns around and commands, "Now, close the door, sit down, and shut up! If you're even going to have a sliver of hope of earning my forgiveness, you NEED to do exactly what I tell you to. And you WILL. Understood?"
Annette can see she means business, as evidenced by her glare, but she's determined to see this through. She closes the door, sits down in the chair opposite Bernice and tries not to throw up again.
Bernice notices the look on Annette's face.
Bernice scowls, "Ugh, I can smell it all over you. You've been drinking, haven't you?" Her nostrils flare and she glares at Annette with disdain.
Annette nods her head in shame.
Bernice shakes her head, "Whatever, just...never mind. I assume you've already told these...vultures your part of the story? Meanwhile, I've got the media crawling up my ass, trying to find something else 'juicy' they can dig up."
Bernice is really, really mad. She's also more than a bit fed up with all the questions about...her private life.
Annette can barely make eye contact with Bernice, so she opts to look down at the floor instead, "I...uh, I told them it was off the clock and consensual. I didn't tell them about the other thing, I swear. It's just..." she hesitates.
Her heart is beating so hard and so fast, she's afraid it's gonna leap right out of her chest.
Bernice snaps her fingers repeatedly, "Look at me when you're talking! Are you incapable of making eye contact? What is wrong with you?!" she scolds her.
Annette slowly raises her head, trying not to vomit or pass out. Her head is throbbing.
Bernice goes on, "Stupid! You should've denied it, Annette! ALL of it. It was your word against that 'friend' of yours, Maybelline, Maria, or whatever her name is." Bernice sighs and takes a seat behind her desk.
She leans back in her chair and rubs her forehead. It's been a long day. She closes her eyes.
Annette softly says, "It's Maya and she's not my friend. Not...not anymore. I--I'm really sorry about this. It all got out of hand, Bernice, you have to believe me."
Bernice opens her eyes and leans forward in her chair. She glares at Annette.
Bernice bangs the desk with her fist, "Riddle me this, HOW IN THE HELL did she know?! Did you tell her?! Huh?! Need I remind you of the contract I had you sign?! No one was to know, you stupid stupid girl!" She slams the table again.
The noise rings in Annette's head. She's struggling to not pass out.
Annette tries to explain, "S...sh...she--"
Bernice grits her teeth and says, "Spit it out."
Annette scratches her arm, "She was the one who suggested I...approach you at the...gala. She...she...always saw herself as a matchmaker or whatever. Fuck, sorry..." Annette's voice trails off as she finishes speaking.
Her body is tense and she feels sick to her stomach. She looks down at the ground and starts fiddling with her nails.
She can't even bring herself to look up at Bernice.
Bernice groans, "My other clientele are distressed about this...recent turn of events, as I'm sure you're well aware." She rolls her eyes.
Her anger is rising, "But, does she know about the other thing? And do NOT even think of lying to me."
Annette raises her hands in a placating manner and sincerely responds, "No...no, she doesn't. She thinks it was ju...just regular, vanilla sex."
Bernice leans forward and stares daggers at her. She doesn't like how this is going. Not one bit.
But it's better than nothing. And Annette is clearly distressed about this, as she should be.
Bernice stares into the corner and asks, "So, where do we go from here, then? Hmmmm?" Her tone is neutral. It's almost...unnerving, in a way.
She looks over at Annette and barks, "Damnit, Annette! Look at me when I'm talking to you! Do you know how many people I've had to have this kind of conversation with today?!"
Annette shakes her head, "A lot? I'm sorry. I didn't mean to, y'know. It's--it's just..." she starts to choke up a bit.
The emotions are overwhelming, "I...I should've cut ties with that crazy bitch years ago. I don't know what I was thinking..."
She pauses, then continues, "I--I still wanna...wanna...you know, you know?"
Bernice groans again.
She looks away and drives her hand through her hair, "Annette...this has gone far beyond anything I can reasonably fix. There is no 'us' anymore. Shame, because I truly believed that you were special, so unlike the rest."
She lets out a heavy sigh and runs a hand across her forehead, "I can't...teach you what I've come to learn throughout the years. It's simply too risky. As for my election, heh, well that's...fucked. Forever tainted. This 'scandal' has tarnished my good name and the reputation of my family who are already in a mess of their own."
Bernice is furious, but she can't lose control. Not now. She sighs, "Funny thing is, I'm not even as angry as I'd like to be. I'm...just disappointed in you, Annette."
Annette musters up some courage and cuts in, "It's...it's ALL Maya's fault! That slippery tongue, tinfoil hat bitch! You know how many GODDAMN TIMES I had to hear her stupid fucking theories about VAMPIRES?! About how she thinks they're real! About how they looooove drinking her blood!"
Annette stands up from her seat and starts pacing back and forth. She's trying her hardest to not vomit or pass out again.
Bernice just leans back in her chair and stares at Annette, seemingly bored with it all.
Annette goes on, "Y'know, I...I actually feel sorry for Maya's latest catch- Lucile. She's gonna have to put up with it from now on. Better her than me, I guess."
Annette kicks a chair. Hard. Bernice flinches in shock, but doesn't move to stop her. It's all too surreal, almost like she's watching it unfold on some cheesy daytime soap opera.
Annette continues, "That crazy bitch, she never really fit in anywhere. I...I hope she and Lucile are veeeeery happy together. As happy as the rest of these fucks are."
Bernice sighs and says, "So...now, that you've got all that out of your system...I suggest you leave. There is nothing more to discuss. Consider this our LAST conversation."
Annette says, "What if I want to...continue uh, continue where we left off?"
Bernice looks at her and then closes her eyes, "You're serious? How much did you have to drink? Didn't you hear me, Annette?! IT'S. OVER. Nothing is gonna come of this. All it's done is...ruined everything. EVERY. THING."
She opens her eyes and to her dismay, Annette is still there.
Annette pleads, "But, please. I can't. Y...you showed me such amazing things. Things that...I don't want to give up. Please?" Her eyes are bloodshot and teary. It's a pitiful sight, to say the least.
Bernice rolls her eyes, "You don't understand, Annette. It's...over. Not with a bang but with a whimper--"
Annette interjects by standing in front of Bernice and kneeling down in front of her, "P...Please--"
Bernice tries to not look at her, but it's difficult to avoid her.
Annette tries again, "M...Mistress?"
That word awakens something deep within Bernice. She looks deeply into Annette's bloodshot eyes. The redness of the eyes reminds her of something. Of what she was at one point.
The woman on her knees is clearly...eager. Very eager. So much so, that Bernice can even see it.
However, there are other, more pressing concerns on her mind, but perhaps...if she takes it slow and easy, and if she's careful, then maybe she could pull it off.
And above all, being discreet.
Bernice thinks it over for a few minutes while Annette just kneels there in front of her. She eventually decides to go through with it. After all, she's in charge of this.
Completely.
Annette's not the only one in the room. Over the years, Bernice has learned how to bend and twist the wills and desires of people around her to suit her own goals and objectives.
First at Yale, then the various firms she'd worked at before, and now here- small town politics.
The point is, she has had many a practice at...this sort of thing. Annette would be the latest in a long line of playthings that have crossed her path over the years.
Annette will just be another tool. Another cog. A small but useful cog in her scheme. If things go to plan, then this will all be forgotten about and Annette will become the most useful asset that she could possibly be.
Of course, Annette, despite her current...state, has ambitions of her own. Her own goals. Her own plans.
After all, they both have something that the other wants.
Although, Annette wasn't just after the "services" that Bernice offered. She wanted that client list.
Even now, that thought, that want, that desire swam around the back of her frazzled mind.
And of course, she was kinda desperate. She'd be desperate for anyone at this point, really. After all, it's been a...while, and the need that Bernice had once satisfied is not exactly one that can find satisfaction...elsewhere.
Or easily, at least. And besides, what does Bernice have to lose at this point, anyway? Not much. And she's already lost a lot.
She can afford to take a few more risks.
It's not like anyone's going to notice, anyway. And even if they did, they wouldn't care. There will always be another salacious scandal to move on to and swarm around for a few weeks.
Or a few days, considering modern attention spans and all that.
Bernice is willing to go through the motions of what is essentially a script- she knows her role well and how to play it. And she does enjoy this.
This...dynamic. The power, the control, the sense of satisfaction she gets from it.
Even as Annette is on her knees, begging for more, Bernice knows that the real power lays in her hands and nowhere else.
But she knows that her old way of...doing business isn't gonna cut it anymore. No, she needed to find new ways to make this work. To ensure she maintained the upper hand at all times, and not lose her control over Annette.
Her clients, after all, valued discretion. Now, she'll have to work extra extra hard to rebuild the reputation she'd built up for so long. And to ensure she stays...relevant.
So, she starts off slow and easy. The familiar dance that she's performed many, many times.
Bernice had long ago learned the ins and outs of human psychology in a short business course, and then fine-tuned and mastered it through her...work.
This would not be too difficult. Annette is clearly in no mood to question or fight it, so this would be easy enough to pull off.
Bernice gently strokes Annette's cheeks and then caresses it in such a way that is anything but affectionate. However it's still effective enough for what she has planned.
Annette visibly flinches at the touch.
Her eyes dart up and she makes eye contact with Bernice. Bernice just keeps on staring at her with the same...looks. The looks that have left people squirming under their own skin before.
Annette's just there, unsure of what to do next. She's never felt quite like this before.
It's all a bit overwhelming, but at the same time, she asked for it and knows that she won't be able to back out of this. It's far too late for that.
So, she just goes along with it. Her breathing is heavy, and her body is trembling. Her mouth is dry. She wants to keep feeling this way.
But, she also feels like hurling. Her vision is a bit blurry, her head is pounding, and her heart is racing. Her hands are sweaty and shaking. She's not sure if she can go through with this.
Bernice notices this and narrows her eyes.
Before Bernice is about to speak, Annette is out the door and into the nearest bathroom. She retches into the toilet. Her vomit is mixed with the tears and spit that have been streaming down her face.
She just wants to forget about this whole thing. To go back in time and change things. To stop Maya from opening her mouth.
But it's too late. Far too late. She's stuck here. Stuck.
Simply stuck.
Annette gets a few looks from the other people in the chaotic campaign HQ, but they quickly go back to what they were doing. Not like they've never seen someone vomiting in a bathroom before.
She goes back to Bernice's office and shuts the door. She, however, reeks of vomit.
Bernice frowns and says, "You look...well. Yet, you smell awful, but that's beside the point. Now, I suggest you take a shower. Go home, relax, and we'll continue our...sessions in a week or so."
She struts over to Annette and continues, "Let all...this blow over first. But, believe me, I won't be going easy on you once we get started. You WILL feel pain, and you WILL be pushed beyond your limits. Do you understand?"
Annette nods her head.
Bernice smiles. But she's not quite satisfied with a simple nod of the head.
Bernice commands, "Did you understand what I said?"
Annette swallows hard and says, "Y...yes, mistress."
Bernice chuckles and clicks her tongue, "I'm not quite convinced. I think you need a bit more convincing. Don't you?"
Annette nods her head, "Yes, mistress."
Bernice smiles, "Say it like you mean it."
Annette stutters, "I...uh--"
Bernice grins and sighs, "I don't think you do, Annette. But don't worry, we'll work on that. Oh, we will."
She grabs Annette closer. She leans in and whispers in her ear, "We will. Believe me."
Annette's hands, meanwhile, slide down Bernice's back and start squeezing her ass. Bernice's grin widens and she giggles. She starts nibbling on Annette's ear and kissing her neck.
"Ugh," Bernice breaks away after a few seconds. "You still reek. Go home and shower. Now."
Annette nods her head and goes to leave. Before she closes the door, Bernice adds, "Oh, and Annette?"
"Y...yes?"
"Do not fuck this up for a second time. There's only so much patience a woman like me can have. Now, go."
And with that, the door shuts.
Annette just stands there, dumbfounded, before stumbling out of the campaign HQ. Bernice watches her walk away and lets out a heavy sigh.
She proceeds to take a seat behind her desk, lean back in her chair, and close her eyes. She thinks about everything that has transpired. It's been a long day.
She doesn't know what the future holds, but she's ready for it.
Her chances of winning the election are what every person with a brain would call zero. Her private life is under even more scrutiny than it was before. The press is on her ass, and her family is likely in an even greater mess.
It's all too much. But she's been through worse. This probably isn't even the worst thing she's had to deal with.
Then again, she's surrounded herself with the best lawyers, fixers, and spin doctors in the game, so things could've been A LOT worse. Plus, she's not as desperate as people think she is.
They've got skeletons of their own, and she knows it- knowledge that she intends to deploy when the time is right.
Just not now.
Back to Maya...
She's still in a deep sleep. The last few hours have really taken a toll on her, and she just needs a break. A break from all this bullshit. She dreams about Lucile.
Lucile is holding her close. She can smell her scent. It's calming. Lucile's arms feel warm. Maya feels safe. Lucile smiles. Maya smiles back. Then, she hears a familiar voice.
It's Annette's.
"BOO!"
"Loser!"
"Nutjob..."
"She'll never love you!"
"She's just putting up with you, stupid!"
"She'll dump you the moment she finds a better, prettier girl."
Maya bolts upright in bed, her heart racing and her breathing heavy. She looks around and realizes that she's in her apartment. The afternoon sun is shining brightly through the curtains.
Maya rubs her eyes and groans. She cried herself to sleep to the point where she's got a headache. She grabs her phone and turns it on to check the time and notices the Whatsapp message from Edgar.
She sighs and decides she's in no mood to reply to it. She gets up out of bed and makes her way to the bathroom. Her head is still hurting and she's feeling pretty miserable.
She's also hungry, but she doesn't have the will to make anything to eat right now.
She washes the crust out of her eyes and splashes some water on her face. She looks at herself in the mirror and groans. She's a mess. Her hair is disheveled and she's got dark bags under her eyes.
This was not how she expected this day to go. She takes a deep breath and heads into her room.
She just throws herself back into her bed. Even now, her phone is still going off. Ding! Ding! Notifications and mentions piling up. Requests for comment, news alerts, all that shit.
The Internet is already abuzz with the story. It's all anyone's been talking about for the past few hours, it seems. And of course, everyone's got an opinion on it.
Everyone wants to weigh in.
Maya sighs and looks at her phone. She doesn't have the energy to deal with all of this right now. She's not sure what to think, what to say, or even how to react.
She looks at the time on her phone. It's 12:21 PM.
There's a long way to go. Lucile only told Maya to come over by "2nite". That could mean any time after sunset. Maya's not sure if she wants to go.
After all, the last thing she wants is for Lucile to get caught up in this...mess. Still, who else does Maya have? Who else can she talk to?
Who else would listen to her without judging?
Annette's obviously out of the question. Maya thinks about it some more, then decides that she'll wait. Wait for Lucile. She gets back up and walks over to the window.
She opens the curtains and looks out over the town. It's quiet this time of the day. Surprising.
The sun beams down on Maya, warming her up. She smiles, it feels good. She takes a deep breath and closes her eyes. She just wants to enjoy this moment.
But, as her mind wanders, she can't help but feel a bit anxious about what's to come.
Little did she know that this would likely be the last time she felt the warmth of the sun on her skin.
Maya goes to the kitchen and grabs some OJ. She puts some toast in the toaster and goes into her room. She puts on some music from her playlist and sits on her bed.
She takes a sip of OJ and nibbles on the toast.
"Hurt" by Johnny Cash starts playing. How fitting. She listens to the lyrics. She can relate to the song.
She wonders what Lucile's thinking about right now. She wonders how she's feeling. She wonders if she's OK. She hopes she is.
As she's thinking about Lucile, she hears Cash singing, "Everyone I know goes away / In the end"
Maya pulls at her hair, "No. No. NO. NO! NO! NO!" She throws the glass of orange juice against the wall, shattering it into a million pieces.
She looks around her apartment. There's nothing but pain and suffering here. This is no place to live. But, it's not like she has any other place to go.
She's already behind on rent for the past few weeks. She doesn't have many friends to turn to and zero family.
Maya sighs and just stares at the broken shards of glass and spilled orange juice. She's not sure what to do. She feels stuck. She feels hopeless.
She's never felt so alone before in her life.
She looks over at her phone, still ringing and dinging and vibrating.
Cash now sings, "Full of broken thoughts / I cannot repair"
Maya decides she can't take it anymore. She lies back in her bed and puts the pillow over her head. She just wants all this to go away. All the pain, all the suffering, all the loneliness, and all the despair.
She just wants to disappear. She just wants to forget about all of this.
Slowly, but surely, tears start rolling down Maya's face and into her ears. Her eyes are wet and her cheeks are flushed.
She lets out a choked sob, then another. Then another.
The tears flow freely as the music plays on.
Cash laments, "What have I become? / My sweetest friend"
Indeed, what has Maya become? Or, rather, what WILL she become?
Maya simply holds down the power button on the phone and turns it off. It's too much to deal with right now. She closes her eyes and drifts off to sleep once again.
It's now 2:45 PM. The sun's as bright and shining as can be.
Annette's back home.
She steps into the shower and tries to wash away all the bad shit that's happened today.
But it's not working. Sure, the filth and the barf smell's being washed out, but the emotional and mental turmoil lingers. Still, she'll take what she can get.
She closes her eyes and leans back against the shower wall. The lukewarm water soothes her aching muscles and she sighs. She can't stop thinking about Bernice.
She feels some degree of responsibility for sinking her chances at winning the election.
Annette repeatedly hits the tiled bathroom wall till her knuckles start bleeding, "Fuck!" Her whole body is trembling and she starts bawling her eyes out. She cries and cries until the water turns cold.
She turns off the faucet, then takes a seat on the floor of the shower. She cries some more. She can't believe it.
After a while, Annette grabs a towel and dries herself off. She looks at herself in the mirror and can barely recognize the woman looking back at her. She doesn't know who she is anymore.
But, that doesn't matter.
What matters is that she has to get a grip and clean up her act. At least enough that the media and the public don't tear her apart.
Then, her life could be perfect. It has to be. It will be. She has to believe that. She wants to. She still does. And she's determined to get everything back on track.
Somehow, Some way.
But, she's running out of time.
Every hour, the claws of the vultures keep digging deeper. It's only a matter of time before they uncover...something else.
Annette sighs and closes her eyes. She tries to steady her breathing. Then, she thinks. She thinks about what's happened. She thinks about what's coming. She thinks about her future.
Does it involve this town? Or even Bernice?
Definitely not Maya, that's for sure.
Annette sinks into her bed and takes a look at her phone- 3:56 PM. Sunset should be around 6:15 PM.
Even now, Annette's phone is filling up with missed calls and messages from those "seeking comment", her long-estranged parents, and even some old friends from college.
She deletes the voicemails and the texts without even listening to them.
Annette has no intention of reaching out to Maya. No. She's gotta fix this on her own. Alone. There's no room for her at the table anymore. Not after what's happened. And the subsequent fallout.
If she can even call this "fallout". There's just too much at stake and too many people to consider. She can't move an inch without thinking about the possible consequences.
Annette's eyes flutter for a few minutes. She struggles to stay awake as a bit of the booze still lingers in her system. She yawns and rubs her eyes.
She needs to get some sleep.
She doesn't know what her plans are, but she knows what's not happening. Not today. Not ever again. No more breakfasts in that dreadful café with Maya.
After all, that's where it all started (or ended, depending on your perspective), so why'd either one of them wanna go there, anyway?
And, in all likelihood, they've been banned and blacklisted from that place.
But, that doesn't matter. All that matters is that Maya and Annette are over. It's time to move on. There's no room for Maya in Annette's life. And there's no room for Annette in Maya's "life".
Or, Unlife.
The time was rapidly approaching.
Annette eventually falls asleep after taking another swig of wine. Her dreams are filled with images of a bright, beautiful future. One without Maya.
One where she's far, far away from this place, living it large.
Annette's phone vibrates and blinks, but she's too busy dreaming and sleeping to notice. And, even if she did, there's no way she'd care. Or, at least, that's what she'd tell herself.
But, she can't shake the feeling that something's about to change.
Maybe it's for the better, she assures herself. But, then again, she doesn't really know.
Only a few do.
Meanwhile, Maya is still in a deep sleep. It's almost 5:00 PM and she's been out for a while. Her snoring is so loud that one might mistake it for the sound of a jet engine.
Lucile is still in her day-sleep. Kindred rarely dream, but Lucile has learned to control her dreams so as to not let any of the emotions and thoughts of the past seep into her mind.
After all, a Kindred is no stranger to the world of dreams, but their dreams are not pleasant, not always.
She sees his face again. And hers. Again. It has the appearances of an otherwise pleasant night, fireworks were going off in the background, but this is the one memory she'd rather not relive.
Lucile's face is flushed and she's sobbing blood uncontrollably. The man, however, has a huge grin on his face. The woman stands next to him, arm in arm. He laughs. She smiles.
It's a picture-perfect horror show.
Bodies, ash, and body parts are strewn across the room and the ground. Lucile can't bring herself to look down. There's no way she can bring herself to do this.
She just stands there, rooted to the spot, her blood tears dripping down onto the carpet. She notices Eleanor, her Sire, staked in the corner. She's not moving. Not breathing.
Lucile doesn't have the willpower to go over and remove that piece of protruding wood. Instead, she just looks out the window.
It's all a blur, a smear, a mess.
More fireworks explode overhead and Lucile's Rötschreck is immediately triggered, she's in a full-blown panic. Her fangs and claws are fully extended and her breathing is ragged and uneven.
Her heart is slightly beating out of her chest and her eyes are wide with fear.
The woman laughs at this pitiful sight, huddled in the corner, cowering and trembling. The man laughs with her.
Lucile is too distraught to do anything but watch them as they start dancing.
The man puts his arm around the woman and draws her closer. They both smile, happy to be together.
The man grabs her by the waist and kisses her. Her hands, meanwhile, go down his back and down his leg. Lucile can't bring herself to look away, yet she's mesmerized by their actions.
Their kisses become more passionate, more frenzied, more violent. He bites her neck, the Vitae is red, it's everywhere. He drinks his fill, then lets go. She smiles and does the same.
The taste is euphoric.
With blood still dripping from her fangs, she turns towards Lucile and says, "Think YOU could take our Blood without asking?"
Lucile gasps and springs awake, her eyes wide with terror. She's shivering. She can't bring herself to move, so she just stays there, breathing heavily, staring at the ceiling.
Then, she hears the phone's alarm go off. The time is now 6:20 PM. It's her cue. Her time to rise.
She gets up out of bed and makes her way upstairs, clenching her phone tightly in her hand.
She opens the window and sticks her head out. The moon is still rising and the sky is still bright. But the clouds are slowly covering it.
This is the night.
Lucile sits down on her sofa and unlocks her phone. She's in for quite a surprise, but before connecting to the Internet, she sends Maya a quick text message.
"eeeeeeey! U can come over any time now, that big surprise is still on for u ;) xxx"
Lucile stares at the message and grins as she presses send.
A while later, she reads the news. Oops. There are hundreds of articles about what happened in the morning.
Lucile places her hand over her mouth and shakes her head in disbelief. She can't believe what's just happened. This is not what she had planned. Not at all.
And now, she's left to wonder what this means for her, for Maya, and for their relationship.
Lucile quickly sends another text: "OMG. I'm so sorry, I didn't know. Come over and we can talk abt it, k? I'm here 4 u, sweetie."
Lucile grabs a vial of blood from a freezer and pours it into a shot glass. She takes a big gulp, then pours a few more drops into the glass.
She downs it in one swift motion and winces at the taste. She grimaces, then sighs.
"Oh, wow, running a bit low. Gonna have to start packing for 2 now, eh?"
She chuckles to herself and takes another shot of blood.
Lucile's phone vibrates. It's a message from Maya which reads: "Will be there soon. Just wanna get away from all this and be with u. Been a rough day."
Lucile texts back with a simple thumbs-up emoji.
Immediately, Lucile's doorbell rings.
Lucile gets up and runs towards the door. She opens the door and sees Eleanor, holding an ice box in her hands.
Eleanor smiles and says, "Are you ready for tonight, my dear Childe?"
Lucile takes the ice box from Eleanor and says, "Uh...yeah. Definitely! Um...let's just hope it all goes well."
Eleanor walks in, looks around and asks, "Is something the matter, Lucile? You seem...disturbed."
Lucile's expression changes from confusion to realization. She quickly locks the door and puts the ice box down on the table.
"No, just excited is all. I really want this to go well. Maya should be here soon."
Eleanor reminds Lucile, "I know how you feel about her, but I must be the one to Embrace her. Is that understood?"
Lucile's eyes widen, "Y...yes! Of course! I totally get it."
"Good," Eleanor says.
She points to the ice box, "After the Embrace, she is to take 1 vial every 21 minutes. There might be certain...side effects, but that is to be expected."
Lucile responds, "Oh, heh, I remembered how woozy I felt after, like, the 5th one. But, then again, that was years ago, maybe they've perfected the whole procedure."
"That is not for us to decide," Eleanor reminds Lucile.
"Right, of course."
Eleanor takes out some old-looking tomes from her large handbag and gives them to Lucile, "Some necessary reading material, I would think. I will be upstairs. I suggest you get everything in order."
Lucile nods her head in acknowledgement. As Eleanor heads up, Lucile asks, "Oh, uh...Eleanor?"
"Yes?"
"Can I...spend some time with her, try to...y'know ease her into this a bit?"
Eleanor sighs, "Of course, dear. Just don't waste too much time."
"Yeah, of course. Thanks," Lucile responds.
The Elder Tremere walks up the stairs and heads into one of the rooms. She takes off her coat, hangs it up and starts looking through a collection of old artifacts and other curios.
She thinks to herself, "The night ahead is going to be long. I must be prepared."
Meanwhile, Maya's putting on a hoodie jacket- it's a bit oversized, worn out, has stains on it, and smells a bit funny. Maya doesn't notice, though. She's just trying to get away from all the bullshit.
She slips into a pair of baggy jeans torn at the right knee. She can't stop thinking about what happened today, so she doesn't even care about the state of her clothes.
Maya puts on her shoes, locks her door, and heads out. She waits for the bus while scrolling through Pinterest.
The bus pulls up, and Maya boards it.
She sits all the way in the back. The bus is crowded, and most people are asleep.
As she sits there, the bus drives over a bump in the road, and Maya is suddenly overcome by a wave of panic. Her heart is beating out of her chest. She's trying to calm herself down, but it's not working.
Not at all.
She grips the seat tightly and tries her best not to cause a scene. This is all too much. But, she knows that this is gonna be the least of her problems.
She tries not to think about it.
Maya tries to refocus her mind to something else. But, she can't. Everything is such a mess. She starts to think about Lucile.
She feels Lucile's hand stroking her. It's soft. Gentle. Warm. Maya smiles, remembering the feeling of her soft skin.
Maya thinks about how they first met. The first night they spent together. It was so special. So intimate. And sexy. That was all she wanted.
To love and to be loved.
And yet, here she is. Maya looks around and sees people sleeping, some people talking, some reading, and others listening to music. The traffic usually sucks this time of the evening, so it's gonna be a long ride.
Maya decides to avoid bringing up what happened in the morning. She just wants to forget about it. She doesn't want to think about it.
She doesn't want to have to talk about it. She just wants to forget.
The bus drives onward and on, then a few blocks more. It's now 6:40 PM, and Maya is still a bit nervous about what's to come. She doesn't know what's gonna happen when she gets there.
She has no idea.
6:46 PM. Maya gets off at the designated stop and slowly walks towards Lucile's cottage. It's dark and the night is quite cold. Maya can't see too well, and the road is pretty much empty.
She makes it to the cottage. She gulps, rings the bell and waits. Her heart is racing, and she's breathing heavily.
The door opens and there stands Lucile, beautiful and stunning as ever. She's put some lipstick on- cherry red, nice. She's even wearing some nice subtle green eyeshadow that complements her beautiful, green eyes.
Maya is amazed. For a moment, she forgets all her troubles.
Lucile says, "Maya! I...I saw the news, I'm so sorry. I don't know wh--what to say. Come on in, please. I'll get you a drink and we can talk."
Maya can't bring herself to speak. Her eyes are fixated on Lucile, like she's some sort of goddess.
Maya walks in without saying a word, a look of sadness and pain on her face.
Lucile closes the door behind her. She can't get a word in, and she doesn't know what to say. She's completely at a loss.
Lucile goes to the kitchen and pours Maya a glass of grape soda. She asks, "Is grape soda OK, sweetie?"
"Yep," says Maya as she carelessly plops herself on Lucile's couch.
Lucile brings the glass over and hands it to her, "Here you go. I'm so sorry all of this happened. I'm here if you wanna talk about it."
Lucile sits close to Maya and puts her arm around her.
Maya stares into Lucile's eyes and says, "Th--Thanks." She takes a sip and nods her head.
It's good grape soda.
Lucile says, "I--I don't know what to say, I'm so sorry about all this. I wish I could help."
"Uh...it's OK. It's--"
Tears start to well up in Maya's eyes.
"No, no, no, no, no, no. It's OK, sweetie. It's OK. Let it all out. It's OK. I'm here for you."
Maya puts the nearly-empty glass on the table and puts her head in the crook of Lucile's neck, "I don't know what's gonna happen. I'm just...just so scared."
Lucile hugs Maya and strokes her messy red hair, "It's OK, you don't have to worry about anything. We can take our time, OK? It's OK. We're gonna get through this together. Don't worry. Shhhhh, now."
Maya's sobbing intensifies, "I'm--I'm such a screw-up! I--I messed up!"
"Shhhhh," Lucile coos. She gently guides Maya's head to her bosom and lets her cry it all out.
Lucile whispers, "It's OK. It's OK. Don't worry about anything. Just relax. Just get it all out of your system. No one can hurt you here. Shhhhh."
Maya says, "I...don't deserve you, Lucile. I'm afraid--"
Lucile cuts her off, "No, no, no. Absolutely not. You're the best thing that's ever happened to me, Maya."
Maya insists, "I don't deserve you."
Lucile presses Maya's head further into her bosom, "You do, sweetie. You do."
Maya is trembling and crying as Lucile holds her.
"Shhhhh," Lucile gently whispers.
The 2 hold each other close. It's like a perfect storm of emotions- fear, anger, sadness, relief, confusion, loneliness, comfort.
Maya just wants to get lost in the moment. To forget about all the shit that's happening.
She just wants to stay here forever, in this moment. With Lucile.
Eventually, the tears reduce, and the 2 stare into each other's eyes.
Maya says, "I...I'm sorry I got you mixed up in this."
Lucile replies, "You don't owe me an apology. I'm just glad that you're here. You don't know how worried I've been. I--I was afraid that you would...that you might not want to be with me anymore." She says this as she tries her best to hold back tears of her own.
Maya says, "Of course I do. I would never leave you. Ever. I...I care about you. A lot. I--"
Lucile gently says, "I know. I love you too, Maya."
Maya's eyes are now brimming with tears.
"I--I...love you too, Lucile."
Lucile looks deeply into Maya's eyes. Maya returns the gaze. It's like a deep, raw connection that's never been felt before.
Maya places her head on Lucile's bosom.
She gently rubs Lucile's thigh, "You're so beautiful."
Lucile chuckles and says, "So are you, Maya. Your hair is just exquisite."
"Thank you. But I wish I was as pretty as you."
"You're plenty pretty, sweetie. Don't say that."
"I just can't believe it. This whole thing. It's so surreal. I just...I can't believe this is happening." Maya's voice wavers as she says this. Her heart is racing. She can't stop looking into Lucile's green eyes.
She feels like she's falling into a trance. She doesn't want this moment to ever end.
She just wants to stay here forever. With Lucile. In her arms. Safe and secure.
Lucile pulls Maya closer. Maya moans softly, then sighs. Lucile smiles and gives Maya a peck on the lips.
Maya's eyes widen and her heart skips a beat. She looks up at Lucile. Then, she kisses her back. And again. And again. And again.
The kisses become deeper, longer, more passionate. The 2 embrace each other in a tight, loving hug. Their tongues dance together in a symphony of love.
They don't want this moment to end. They want to stay here forever, in this moment, together. They kiss each other again. And again. And again. Maya's heart is racing, her breathing is heavy and her hands are trembling.
They can't get enough of each other. They just can't stop kissing each other.
Maya takes off her jacket and throws it onto the floor. She throws off her tank top. Lucile looks at her, amazed. Maya then takes off her bra and throws it to the floor.
Lucile smiles.
She takes off her own shirt and tosses it to the floor. Maya's eyes widen and she bites her lip. Lucile rips off her own bra and tosses it to the floor.
Maya's mouth drops open and she licks her lips.
Lucile smiles and starts kissing her neck. Maya moans and starts unbuttoning Lucile's pants. Lucile takes off Maya's pants and underwear and tosses them to the floor.
Maya moans as Lucile moves down and starts kissing her thighs.
Maya can't take it anymore. She grabs Lucile by the shoulders and pulls her up. She kisses her deeply and passionately. Lucile moans as Maya's tongue enters her mouth.
Maya pushes Lucile back onto the couch and gets on top of her. She kisses her deeply and passionately. She can't stop kissing her. She just can't get enough of her. Lucile licks Maya's nipple, making her gasp.
Lucile kisses her nipple and sucks on it. Maya moans and pushes Lucile's head towards her breast. Lucile moans as she sucks on Maya's nipple.
Maya moans and starts grinding against Lucile's thigh. Maya wants more. She guides Lucile to her other nipple and Lucile starts eagerly sucking on it. Lucile sucks harder and faster. Maya moans louder.
Lucile starts moving her mouth to Maya's neck. She starts licking and kissing it. Maya moans louder and faster.
Lucile moans louder and starts rubbing Maya's clit with her finger. Maya moans even louder.
Lucile kisses Maya deeply. Maya's moans grow intense.
Maya pulls away and breathes heavily, "L...Lucile." She pants and licks her lips. "Uh--uh," Maya moans, "Tha...that was--"
Lucile looks at Maya and smiles. "Intense? Amazing?" she huskily whispers.
"I--I got a question," Maya says.
Lucile's eyes widen.
"You wanna k--keep going?" Maya asks, in between pants for breath.
Lucile laughs, "Only if you're ready, my poinsettia."
Maya chuckles and asks, "Uh...what's that?"
Lucile grins and gets up to go outside. Maya's heart is pounding. Lucile walks outside, and beckons Maya to come outside.
Maya, completely naked, follows Lucile. She leads Maya into the a small garden patch, close to the cottage.
She turns and smiles. Maya is sweating profusely, she feels her heart beating faster and faster.
Lucile bends down near a poinsettia bush and plucks a single, blood red poinsettia flower. "What's this look like to you," she asks, coming closer to Maya and bringing the flower close to Maya's face.
"It looks...beautiful. Is...is it a rose?" Maya gasps.
Lucile kisses Maya's lips, gently. "No, sweetie, it's a poinsettia," she whispers, pressing her forehead to Maya's and stroking her hair.
"It matches your hair, doesn't it," Lucile says, brushing her thumb against Maya's cheek and gently tugging on a lock of Maya's hair.
"Oh, wow! Yes! Yes, it does," Maya excitedly says.
"You're my poinsettia," Lucile whispers, "I know we haven't known each other long, but you're the one. The one for me. It's been a while since I've felt this...alive."
She brings the flower up and smells it. She closes her eyes.
"You make me feel...so many things I haven't felt in a long long time. It's amazing, I feel like a different person when I'm with you."
Lucile opens her eyes and looks into Maya's. "Do you understand, my sweet Maya? You make me feel happy. And loved. You're so kind, so caring. And you're beautiful, inside and out."
She caresses Maya's face and gently places the flower into Maya's hand.
Lucile gently places the flower in Maya's hand and continues, "And that's why I wanted to tell you that...that--"
Maya gasps and interrupts, "I love you too, Lucile."
Lucile laughs. "I love you too, Maya. I love you so so much."
Lucile smiles and strokes Maya's hair. "Do you remember the night we first met? When our eyes met at that gala? It was so perfect. And when you invited me over to your place, I--I couldn't believe my luck," Lucile says.
"Yes, it was amazing. I couldn't stop thinking about you after that," Maya earnestly replies. Lucile kisses Maya's forehead.
"It's crazy to think we only just met a few nights ago," Maya sighs.
"Time sure does fly when you're having fun, eh," Lucile says.
"It sure does, especially with someone as...amazing and intelligent as you. And your...your kisses. Your lips. Oh, god. Your body. And those hips. Oh my god," Maya says as she gently bites her lower lip.
Lucile places her hands on Maya's hips and pulls her closer. Maya places the flower between her messy red hair.
"It almost blends in," Lucile whispers.
Maya presses her body against Lucile and wraps her arms around her waist. Lucile gently strokes Maya's back as they kiss. Lucile gently bites Maya's lip, making her gasp.
Lucile licks Maya's bottom lip before sliding her tongue inside of Maya's mouth. Lucile slowly caresses Maya's face before placing her hand on her neck.
The kiss gets deeper. Maya moans.
Lucile pulls away and looks deep into Maya's eyes. She brushes Maya's hair and says, "My poinsettia. You're beautiful. You're gorgeous. Don't let Annette or anyone tell you otherwise, OK? You're special. You're unique."
At the mention of Annette's name, Maya looks down, she feels tears welling in her eyes. Lucile presses her lips to Maya's forehead and gently kisses it. Then, she pulls Maya into an embrace and gently wipes her tears away.
Maya sighs and holds Lucile tight. She closes her eyes and takes in Lucile's scent. Lucile slowly rubs Maya's back.
"She...she really disrespected me and said all those nasty things...in--" Maya says, trying her best not to sob.
"I know, sweetie. I know," Lucile gently replies.
Maya can't help it, she starts sobbing into Lucile's neck.
"...in front of all those people! Now I'm all over the Internet! How am I ever go--gonna show my face in town again...or...or," Maya says. She's now crying uncontrollably, she can barely even get a word out.
"Shhhh," Lucile says, gently stroking her back, "It's OK, we'll figure something out. Just...just try to calm down. And stop thinking about it, OK? I'm here for you now. From now on, we...I've always got you. We're gonna through this, OK? Together."
With tears still rolling down, Maya stammers as she says, "T--Together? Thank you, Lu...Lucile, thank you so so much! I...I promise I'm gonna make you proud. I'm gonna be the best...girlfriend! I'm gonna be the best girlfriend in the world. I...I'm gonna find a better jo--job, I promise. And I'm gonna..." Her words trail off and she cries.
She holds Lucile close and buries her face into her chest.
"Oh, sweetie," Lucile coos, rocking back and forth, "And I promise that I'm gonna make you the happiest woman in the world." She pulls back and kisses Maya on the lips. Maya moans and wraps her arms around Lucile, kissing her back.
They pull apart, breathless.
"I...I don't deserve you, Lucile," Maya says.
"No, my sweet poinsettia. You do. And don't let anyone tell you otherwise," Lucile says in a reassuring manner, placing her hands on Maya's chest. She rubs them gently.
Lucile gently guides Maya back inside and down on the couch.
Maya grabs her clothes from off the floor and pensively says, "I...I love you, Lucile, really I do. But I don't feel like doing...it yet. Not while I'm such a wreck. I--I need time. Is that OK?"
"Of course," Lucile reassures her, gently caressing her cheek.
Maya puts her clothes back on and Lucile does the same. They shoot each other a quick smile.
Maya and Lucile sit on the couch and start cuddling together, the moonlight shining on them through the window. The room is silent as they hold each other close.
Maya looks at Lucile and asks, "So, your text said you had a 'big surprise' for me? What was that all about? Was it...y'know?"
Lucile laughs. She kisses Maya's head. Maya closes her eyes and smiles. She then whispers, "Well, there's no time like the present, eh?"
However, in the back of her mind, she's kinda dreading this. Eleanor is waiting and her patience is no doubt starting to wear thin. Still, she can't back out of this now. Not when everything has already been decided in advance.
Lucile slowly gets up. Maya looks up at Lucile with a puzzled look on her face.
Lucile swallows and takes Maya's hands and looks deeply into her eyes, "So, you know about all our talk of uh...vampires when we were on our date, right?"
Maya nods her head, "Um...yeah? Listen, i--if I scared you or offended you, I--"
"No, no, of course not, it was amazing. I love that kind of stuff," Lucile tells her. "Right, OK, but listen, I uh..."
Maya interrupts, "Wow, Lucile your hands are so cold! Did...did you jump out of an ice bath or something?"
Lucile laughs nervously, "Oh, no, sweetie, it's not that."
She sighs. "It's--I'll be right back. Ju...just stay there, OK?"
Maya looks puzzled and a little confused. "Um...OK," Maya says.
She doesn't know what Lucile's hiding from her. If it's a surprise, Lucile would be thrilled about it, right?
Riiiight.
Lucile heads upstairs and knocks on one of the doors frantically.
Eleanor opens the door and responds, "Lucile. I was just meditating. Is she ready? Have you spoken with her?"
"Uh...yeah. I guess. Maybe. I don't know how...well, here's the thing--"
Eleanor sighs, "I'll speak with her, Childe. Where is she now?"
"Downstairs. Sitting on...the couch."
Eleanor notices Lucile's messy look and narrows her eyes, "Perfect. It appears you're both in a...good mood." She looks away and puts on some earrings.
Lucile says, "Listen, Eleanor, she...I'm not sure how this is gonna go, she. Uh, I don't wanna screw this up. This means so much to me. And she's going through a rough time and--and--"
"Lucile," Eleanor says, cutting her off, "The fact that you are here at all means everything to her. Now come. Too much time has already been wasted. We'll speak with her together."
She looks over at the bed, which is covered with several artifacts, a stack of tomes and some notes.
"Let us speak to her. Do you remember your Embrace? Were you not reluctant and skeptical at first?"
"Yeah, but...that was different."
Eleanor sighs and heads down. She sees Maya, still on the couch.
Lucile calls out from the top, "Uh...sweetie. I...wanna introduce you to someone."
Maya, slouched on the couch, turns her head around, "Oh! Uh...who?"
Lucile walks downstairs and joins Eleanor by her side.
Eleanor says, "You are a brave, strong, intelligent young woman, Maya. My Childe here tells me much about you, and I must say I'm very impressed."
Maya raises her eyebrows so high up her forehead they're about to disappear into her hair, "Um...Childe? Who are you? Lucile???"
"Maya, I've just learnt of problem with...a certain individual earlier in the morning. I can assure you, I've been through something like that myself."
Maya looks over at Lucile and asks, "You know what's going on? You...you're kinda freaking me out."
Lucile kneels down in front of Maya and takes her hand in hers. She sighs, "Well...um, you know I love you, right, my poinsettia? Y--you know why my body is so...cold all the time?"
Maya gulps, she has a hunch. But no. No. It...It can't be!
She shakes her head.
Lucile is about to speak up again when Eleanor says, "You don't know? Are you sure?"
Lucile takes Maya's hand and places it on her chest.
"My heartbeat, Maya," she softly says, "Can you feel it?" Maya opts to place her ear on Lucile's chest. She gasps. She's silent.
Lucile gently places Maya's hand on her chest and smiles, "You don't feel or hear anything, do you? There's no beat."
Eleanor chimes in, "She is, Maya, my dear. She is." She then sits next to Maya.
"We're...we're--"
Maya, stammering and tearing up a bit, says, "V--va--vamp..." Her hands start to shiver.
"Yes, my love, we are vampires," Eleanor confirms, "And I'm her Sire, so to speak. Lucile tells me a great deal about you. My Childe here thinks you're quite the remarkable woman."
Lucile, who is still kneeling, nods her head and says, "She really is, Eleanor. Although, we prefer the term 'Kindred'." She looks up at Maya, who is completely overwhelmed with shock.
Maya just sits there, tears now running down her cheeks and asks, "B--bu--but..."
Lucile says, "I'm so so sorry for not telling you sooner. I truly am. But you...you have no idea what would happen if I did. Our Society has certain rules and--"
"The Masquerade," Eleanor interrupts, "Lucile, please, calm yourself, we're here with Maya now."
Lucile gets up and sits down next to Maya, "Listen, Maya, I've been talking to Eleanor. And--"
Eleanor continues, seeing that Lucile is too overwhelmed by emotions, "Quite simply, we wish to make you one of us."
Maya says, "Lu--Lucile. Th...this can't be. This is a joke, right? This isn't real. You're both pulling some kind of crazy prank, aren't you?"
Lucile's eyes say everything that needs to be said.
Maya realizes this and gasps yet again, "Oh my god! So, so...it's all real, then? The legends, rumors, myths- it's all true."
Eleanor places her hand on Maya's shoulder, "It's...complicated, Maya. Lucile told me everything about your relationship. The fact that you're here, that you've come here, it...speaks volumes to both of us. And we would like you to join our Clan. I'll admit, at first, my Childe here did not disclose to me the...magnitude of your relationship."
Maya stutters as she asks, "C--Clan? You...you're vampires, how does that even work? This--this is uh--"
"There's so much that we must explain and teach you, Maya. There's much more than we have time for, but we can certainly tell you more details later. However, for the sake of brevity, Lucile and I are of Clan Tremere. The Tremere are one of several vampire Clans who seek to learn about the occult, dark magic and other deeper secrets of the Blood."
Lucile smiles and nods.
Maya is stunned and she feels as if a truck just slammed into her head-on.
Eleanor continues, "'Tremere' in Latin means to 'to tremble'. Or, perhaps, it may be interpreted as something else entirely."
Maya looks down and sees the red flower from earlier on the coffee table. Her eyes are filled with tears and she can't help but think about what all this means.
After thinking for what seems like an eternity, Maya speaks up, "I don't have much left. I really can't show my face around town anymore. I've lost...her. I'm likely gonna get fired from my job, if I haven't already been fired. Rent's overdue. My life's a mess."
She pauses and continues, "So, what you're saying is...uh, if I...y'know, do this, I could be like you? H--How does that even work, exactly? Do you bite me and say I'm...y'know?"
Lucile quickly chimes in, "Well, we Kindred usually perform a ritual of sorts called 'The Embrace' on people, like myself. Eleanor did it almost 2 decades ago, it's only painful for a brief moment and after that, you're in a...trance, for the most part, so it's pretty quick. Kinda, I guess. It's been a while since I've thought about it."
She pauses for a moment, "Well, no. Not entirely like myself or Eleanor. The process changes you in more ways than one."
Eleanor continues, "It is a complex procedure. This has already been decided well in advance and it will be me and none else who Embraces you. There's much that I could speak of here, but, I will answer those questions in due time. I believe we've already spent too much time talking about such trivialities."
Lucile holds up her hand, "But wait! We still need Maya's consent. IF she doesn't wanna go through with this, it's--it's totally understandable. But you can't tell anyone about...our kind or even speak of this."
Maya gulps and sighs.
Eleanor says, "Yes, it must be a decision you make. You do not need to do this. If you refuse, it will complicate things for me. However, that is nothing you should concern yourself with. But, if you do accept, there are rules you will need to adhere to for the rest of eternity. This will be, without a shadow of doubt, the greatest decision of your life."
Maya shivers. This is a lot to take in. Too much, even. She's just too overwhelmed with this whole thing.
Lucile places her hands around Maya in order to help comfort her, "You don't need to be pressured into doing this, sweetie. And you're under no obligation to, we--we won't hate you or anything."
Maya asks, "But if I don't, will we...will we still be a--a thing, or whatever? Or do I just d--disappear?"
Lucile is at a complete loss for words. She knows what would've happened, or worse yet, what might happen to Maya.
"Um...uh...I--"
Eleanor cuts in, "Maya. My dear. It is true that you and Lucile would still have a relationship, however, it would be...rather difficult. And we cannot be certain if Lucile would still feel the same towards you."
Maya shakes her head, "No! I mean...no! No. I--I still want her in my life! No matter what! I don't care what she is! I love her!"
Maya starts to think back about the first time she met Lucile at the gala. How they spent time together at Maya's apartment, and all the intimate, precious moments they've had since then.
Was it all a lie? A farce? Definitely not! Their time together was real, and fun.
Either way, she's already in love with Lucile. There's no way she'd ever leave her.
Maya's voice shakes as she asks, "W...what are the benefits of this, uh, 'Embrace'?"
Lucile says, "Well, for one thing, it will grant you eternal life."
Maya's eyes widen, "Whoa! No way! You're...you're serious, right? That stuff about vampires never aging is really true?"
Lucile laughs and says, "Uh, yeah, look at me." Lucile points to her face, "You think all this is just makeup?"
Maya looks over at Lucile and says, "Oh...wow."
Eleanor, getting a bit impatient, asks, "I will permit one last question and then I require a decision, Maya. Are you prepared to go through with this? Are you willing to become one of the Kindred?"
Maya stammers and asks, "W--What about the...the drinking blood stuff? Now, I KNOW it's been done to me, many times. Is this how...you survive???"
Lucile responds, "Yeah. We HAVE TO drink blood, at least, every now and then."
Maya raises an eyebrow and says, "Like, every night or something?"
"It varies."
"And what happens if you don't?"
Eleanor simply says, "Then the Beast takes over and you enter a state of Frenzy, which, I will admit, is nigh impossible to get out of."
Lucile adds, "Well, that and we are significantly weaker during the day, our powers are diminished greatly. So, we sleep during the days and live our 'lives' at night, essentially."
"So, that was your 'insomnia' you told me about, huh," Maya remarks.
Lucile puts her hands around Maya, "Sorry, sweetie, but I had to come up with something, you know? I didn't want you to think I'm some kind of psycho creep."
Maya looks deep into Lucile's green eyes and says, "No, you're not a psycho creep. I'd never think that. But I--I don't know if I'm ready."
She takes a deep breath and says, "I mean, I'm scared and I have a MILLION MORE questions for you."
Eleanor, having one last trick up her sleeve, asks, "Of course, should you remain a mortal, you will age, while Lucile, and I, will not. Do you understand what this means?"
"Uh...I think so?" Maya replies, furrowing her brow and placing a finger on her cheek. "It means...oh. Oh. You mean...you won't--you won't die?"
Eleanor responds, "Yes, of course, but more than that, it means YOU will inevitably grow old and die, Maya. And you will lose Lucile as the years pass."
Maya gulps and looks down, tears rolling down her cheeks. She takes a deep breath and looks at Lucile.
"It means I'd die...all alone," Maya wistfully says. "I wouldn't...I'd have no one to go through life with?"
"N--No," Lucile says, wiping away Maya's tears.
"Oh, Lucile," Maya says as she holds Lucile close, "I don't want to live without you."
"I...I know, honey. And I feel the same way."
Maya's heart is pounding out of her chest. It's all too much for her to handle. She just wants to be with Lucile. Forever. Always.
No matter what happens.
Eleanor clears her throat and says, "I would remind you that this decision must be made now."
Maya swallows hard and says, "OK. It--it's OK. I'm ready. I don't want to spend my life without you, Lucile. I love you. I--I just want to be with you."
Maya looks at Eleanor, "So, I'll do it? You'll...do it to me?"
"I will," Eleanor graciously replies.
Eleanor gets up and says, "Maya, if you will please come upstairs. I will perform the Embrace there."
Maya nervously nods her head and goes upstairs with Lucile by her side.
Eleanor then puts on a black robe with a pyramid printed on the front, back, and sides. It's an ancient symbol of the Tremere.
She chants in some sort of language Maya can't even begin to understand. Lucile holds Maya's hands. Maya's heart is pounding at the speed of light.
Eleanor beckons to the bed and says, "Please lay on the bed or sit on it. I need you to be relaxed. This will all be over soon."
Maya lays on the bed and Lucile stands at the doorway.
Eleanor approaches. She stands next to Maya and holds her hand.
Eleanor's fangs grow out. "Relax. Just relax." Maya's heart is beating like crazy. She feels like her whole body is about to explode.
"Shhhhh, my poinsettia," Lucile whispers, holding her hands up to her mouth.
Eleanor moves in closer and bites down into Maya's neck. Maya gasps and twitches. She's in pain, but it doesn't last too long. Maya closes her eyes. Her whole world starts spinning and she's now in a trance-like state. Her whole body starts to feel numb.
She can barely move or think. Her heartbeat slows down. It's like she's falling into some deep, dark pit.
Eleanor continues biting until Maya's hand goes limp and she passes out. Maya stops moving and is now unconscious. Eleanor lets go and bares her claws.
She drives a sharp nail over her own wrist till her Vitae starts flowing out, like a river.
Lucile, still at the door, looks on with shock and amazement as Eleanor carefully, yet deliberately, feeds Maya some of her blood. Eleanor pulls Maya into an embrace, with Maya's head still facing upwards.
The Vitae, at first, trickles down into Maya's open mouth. Lucile can't help but smile as she watches her beloved lover, the woman she's had intense feelings for, take Eleanor's Vitae into her.
Maya's face, lips, and mouth are now stained a crimson red, much like Lucile's, all those decades ago.
Then Eleanor's Vitae flows down, like a leaky faucet. The flow of Vitae grows and grows. And soon, it starts filling up Maya's body.
She can feel her new blood start to boil as Eleanor's Vitae continues to flow through her veins, like a tsunami crashing down on her.
Her entire body is being rewritten and rewired. Her mind, her memories, her consciousness, everything is being completely altered and transformed. She feels herself being ripped apart and put back together all over again.
It's an alien sensation. Like nothing she's ever felt before.
As the Vitae keeps flowing down, Maya gasps and jerks. Eleanor continues embracing her, stroking her hair and whispering gentle words into her ear. "Relax," she coos. "Childe."
Maya's eyes open up wide and her vision is extremely blurry at first. Her ears are clogged, even.
Eventually, the blurriness and deafness subside. It's like the entire room has been lit up. Maya's senses have been enhanced to such an extent that she can hear birds and crickets singing outside in the night.
She can see dust particles gracefully falling down onto the bedsheets.
She can taste the droplets of her Sire's Vitae still lingering on her tongue.
She's not used to being in such a state of complete control (and, paradoxically, no control) over her own body and senses. She looks down at her hands. They're glowing in a bluish-white hue.
She looks around. Everything seems so...different. She can see colors she never knew existed.
Maya turns her head. And there it is...
She blinks. She takes a deep breath. Her senses, her feelings, her mind, they're all like something out of a dream or fantasy. It's not long before her senses are now beginning to overwhelm her.
Lucile stands at the doorway, paralyzed with fear and shock (and awe). She can't believe what's happening. This is the moment she's been waiting for.
She feels the same, but at the same time, it feels different.
Maya immediately pushes Eleanor away and curls into a fetal position. She's dazed and confused. She can barely speak or even make out coherent words. Her senses are becoming overloaded.
Lucile approaches, but Eleanor raises her hand.
"I must inform you, Maya," Eleanor says in a calm and soothing tone, "It will take some time to acclimate. Once you have, you will have gained much power."
Maya covers her ears with her hands and moans. It's as if she's just gone deaf again. The very sounds are too much for her to bear. She can barely see anything now, the light is too blinding.
She's also feeling so much more pain.
Her insides have an odd burning sensation. Her head feels as if it's been cracked open, and her brain is on fire. Everything feels like it's out of control. She can't control what she's feeling, it's just so much going on inside her.
"Aaaaaaaaaaaaah," she moans as she closes her eyes, "H--hu...HURTS!"
Eleanor says, "Yes, but the pain is only momentary. It will fade. We're here with you, my Childe."
Eleanor whispers, "Lucile, dear. We must take care of her. This is a moment of great change." She holds Maya in her arms and embraces her, gently rocking back and forth.
Lucile approaches the other side of the bed, but Maya starts screaming, "Nooooooo! My stomach...AGH! AAH!"
Lucile says, "Sweetie, please, it's OK. It's gonna be OK. Just...just focus on the sound of my voice, OK?"
"AAAAHHH! AAAAAAAAHHHHHHHH!" Maya wriggles around, kicking the bedsheets and screaming. She's struggling, but Lucile is trying her best to comfort her.
Eleanor is by her side, stroking her hair. She gently places a hand on her chest and chants. Maya's muscles tense up. Maya, eyes wide open, sits up and screams, "AAARRRGH!"
Eleanor places her hands on Maya's head. Maya screams and writhes around, but Eleanor doesn't let go. She starts to chant louder and faster. Maya's hair is standing on end.
She's trying to hold back the energy coursing through her, but it's no use. She screams even louder.
Lucile, terrified, can't even bear to watch. She can't stand the sight of Maya's screams and struggles.
Maya's eyes glow a bright bluish-white. The bedroom is filled with light, and everything seems to fade away. The chanting is now unintelligible, even.
Eleanor places her hand on Maya's chest, then her forehead. Maya's eyes are glowing intensely. She's not moving anymore. It's like she's dead. Her breathing is ragged.
Lucile is completely in shock. She can't believe what's happening.
Lucile, with eyebrows raised, blurts out, "What the hell!"
"Maya," Eleanor says, gently tapping her cheek, "Maya. My Childe. Lucile has something she wishes to tell you."
Eleanor glances over to Lucile and nods her head.
Lucile is still shocked and isn't entirely sure of what to say, so she just gently strokes Maya's hair, trying to calm her down.
Maya's eyes slowly open up. She's still in a bit of a trance. "I--I feel..." she pauses. She's in a state of disbelief.
She's overcome with emotions and all these various, inexplicable sensations coursing through her body.
"I feel...different. Something's happening to me," she says.
"Yes, my sweet Childe. I have completed the Embrace. You have been turned into one of us, a Kindred of Clan Tremere. Your senses, your body, your mind, even your memories, all of it has been changed. Or is still in the process of changing. You...are now one of us."
"V...va--vampire?" Maya shakily asks.
"Yes, if that is the term you wish to use, my dear."
Maya gets up from the bed, unsteady and dizzy, and starts pacing back and forth, "I--I feel...weird--"
Lucile asks, "Maya, are you OK??"
Maya holds her head, "My...head. Oh. My head."
Maya nearly falls, so Lucile gets up and quickly bolts towards her. Eleanor stays on the bed, motionless.
"Maya, hey, hey, I'm right here, sweetie," Lucile gently says. "I'm not leaving you. OK? I promise, I'm gonna help you through this, OK?"
"I feel...off. Everything is...everything's different," Maya says, clutching her stomach.
"It's normal," Eleanor calmly says.
Lucile chimes in, "Think of your body as this big block of computer code. Well, the Embrace...uh, rewrote that code, but in a different, more...complex language. The new code is slowly adapting and adjusting within the old, uh...framework or shell aka your body, so, your insides will feel strange, like they're on fire."
"Yes," Eleanor chimes in, "That is a very...strange albeit accurate analogy."
Lucile gently says, "Just--just let it happen. It'll fade."
"I...I'm scared," Maya says, hugging Lucile tightly.
Lucile says, "It's OK to be scared. I was scared, too. I still am, honestly."
Eleanor stands up. Maya shivers and crawls back a bit.
Lucile looks over and says, "Wait! What are you doing?!"
"I will be downstairs. I assume your fridge is stocked with enough blood to last us through the night? I will be right back."
Eleanor leaves the room, leaving Lucile and Maya alone.
Maya asks, "Um...Lu--Lucile?"
"Yes?"
"Is...is she always like that?"
Lucile laughs, "You...you'll get used to her."
"She's your uh...Sire, right? So, she's mine, too?"
"Yeah. Yeah, she's your...no, our Sire. But it's not that formal. There's no hierarchy, no 'I'm your boss' kind of stuff."
"Oh, good, so...uh, can we still, y'know..."
Lucile takes a few seconds to process what Maya's hinting at, "Oh...oh, wow, you're...you're really...wow."
Lucile says, "Look, Maya, I don't know how much cheesy vampire stuff you've watched or read, but yes we can still...do 'it'. However, it might be a bit more...um, challenging for you, I suppose."
"What do you mean, more challenging? Is it because I'm a new vampire or something?"
"Well, it's not really anything you need to worry about now. C'mon. Get up. Listen, we'll talk more about this...later. I kinda feel awkward when Eleanor's around, y'know."
Lucile helps Maya off the floor and gently leads her downstairs.
Maya asks, "Lu--Lucile, why does it feel so weird, like my insides are...like, uh, wet cement? Oh my god, what's going on?!
Lucile just laughs, "Calm down. It's normal. Let me...let me help you."
Lucile helps Maya over to the kitchen and sits her down on a chair.
Eleanor places an ice box on the table and opens it, fetching the 1st vial of Blood.
She commands Lucile, "Set a timer. Maya is to take one of these every 21 minutes. It is absolutely vital that she does so. You will assist her, if need be."
"Oh! The 7 vials! Nice!" Lucile remarks.
"Hmph...yes. Now, please set the timer."
Lucile sets the timer.
Maya looks confused, "Uh...what are you 2 talking about?"
Eleanor ignores her and says to Lucile, "There is much to teach this one, isn't there?"
Lucile politely smiles and nods her head. Eleanor takes the first vial and walks over to Maya. She removes the stopper and hands the vial over to Maya.
"Drink this," Eleanor commands.
Maya nervously gulps and asks, "Is that...oh my god, is--is that human blood??!"
Eleanor sighs, "That is not relevant. But, it is vital that you do as I say. It is for your own good, Childe."
Maya gulps and is a bit afraid.
"It's OK, Maya," Lucile reassures her.
"It's not going to harm you," Eleanor promises.
"Now, please drink it."
Maya's hands shake as she takes the vial up to her lips. She gulps and drinks the blood, a bit at a time. It's not long before she's drained it completely. She's still nervous, though.
"You must take one vial every 21 minutes," Eleanor reminds her, "We do not want you to grow weak. Understood?"
Maya nods her head.
"Good. I will remain here for the night. But first, I wish to have a word with Lucile, in private. Lucile?"
Lucile looks over at Maya and kisses her on the cheek, "Just...don't go anywhere, OK? Stay put. I'll BRB." She winks at Maya, who smiles back.
Eleanor and Lucile go over to the living room and have a private talk.
"So, what did you wanna talk to me about, Eleanor?"
"There is the issue of finding a...Haven for Maya. I assume her current residence would no longer be adequate, now that she is a Kindred. Perhaps, a hotel or abandoned building would be best, considering her position. Somewhere close to your Haven, so to speak."
"Whoa! Hold your horses, Eleanor. My Maya is not gonna be holed up in some rinky-dink hotel. I can't--I can't imagine how stressed that would make her, I mean, she's just been turned, after all."
Eleanor narrows her eyes and says, "You would deny a new Kindred a place to rest, Lucile?"
Lucile shakes her head, "Absolutely not! I...got an idea. Gimme a sec."
Lucile grabs a spare house key on a wall and heads to the kitchen, where Maya is.
Maya just sits there, thinking to herself, "Why do I feel like this? Is this some kind of side effect of the...Embrace? Was it that funky blood I just drank? OMG, I--I just drank blood. Ewwww."
Lucile clears her throat, "Hey, Maya. I wanna ask you something."
Maya turns around from her chair and looks up at Lucile, "Sure. What's up? Is it time for my 2nd drink?? Already?"
Lucile gets down on one knee and holds up the house key, "Uh, I know this is a bit cheesy, but...Maya, will you move in with me? It's just that I know you're stressed, and I feel like I should do this. Besides, your place probably gets hit by the sun in the day, which sucks, I mean, not literally, obviously, but...yeah."
Maya's eyes light up, "A--Are you serious?!"
Lucile nods her head, "Yeah, so, what do you say? Are you interested?"
Maya giggles and hugs Lucile, "Oh my gosh, Lucile! Of course, a million times million yeses! I'd LOVE to move in with you! Yay!"
Maya kisses Lucile on the lips and Lucile says, "Well, uh, we'll have to arrange a way to bring your stuff over, OK? That's, uh, the other thing. We'll get some help if we can. My Camaro can fit a few of your things in the trunk, I think."
Maya says, "Oh my god, oh my god! I can't believe it! This is amazing! But what about rent? It's been overdue for the past few weeks. And what about work? I mean, I could always find something--"
Lucile places a finger on Maya's lips, "Shhh, shhh, Maya. Don't worry about it. You're still new to this, and you're gonna need a lotta guidance. You don't have to worry about money, I promise. We're here, Eleanor and me, and we'll take care of everything, OK?"
"O...OK. I--I guess," Maya says, still processing everything that's going on.
Eleanor stands at the doorway, watching the 2 interact. Lucile can sense her presence, though.
"Yes, she will need guidance."
"Listen, I'll give you the grand tour, OK? I mean, you've already seen most of it, but I'm sure you'll love...the rest of it!"
Maya laughs. Eleanor cracks a smile.
"It is time for your lessons, Maya," Eleanor says.
"M--My what now?"
"We are at a point of great change for our Clan. Time, ironically, is a luxury we do not have. You need to learn all you can about our kind, Childe."
"Uh...'our' kind?" Maya asks.
"Yes, Maya, there are many who are like you and many more who are...unlike you," Eleanor flatly replies, "I would like to teach you everything. Tonight. There is much that you must learn, but you have little time to learn it in."
Maya looks confused and nervous, "WOW, OK. So, lemme just..." her words trail off as she looks around for a pen, pencil, and something to write on.
"Lucile, you got any pens or something???"
Lucile gently chuckles and says, "This is not the kind of stuff we write down, sweetie."
Eleanor adds, "Yes. You must make every effort to commit everything I teach you to memory. Don't worry, your faculties are undergoing a complete transformation, and as such, you will find yourself more than able to retain everything once you've adjusted."
"Y--You're not joking, are you?" Maya asks, "I mean, I...uh...sometimes I can barely remember my own number, haha. Wow, this is a lot."
Lucile takes Maya's hand in hers, "It's gonna be fine. And, besides, if it's too much, I'll be right there to help you, OK?"
Eleanor clears her throat.
Lucile groans, "Ugh, maybe not always, I got some other stuff to do. Eleanor here taught me, so, I'm pretty sure she can teach you too."
Lucile gives Maya a kiss on the cheek and heads out from the kitchen.
Maya gulps and approaches Eleanor, "Um, I guess we'll begin, then. Right?"
Eleanor simply nods her head. "Very well. Please, make yourself comfortable."
Maya sits down on one of the dining chairs while Eleanor sits directly opposite her. They're both sitting across each other. The 2 lock eyes.
Maya's eyes are bright and intense. The lights are nice and bright. Everything else is silent.
Almost awkwardly.
The night is young. However, there is little time.
Eleanor begins, "I will start from the very beginning, Maya. Although, I have...strong views on certain matters relating to Kindred, I will strive for objectivity and neutrality throughout the remainder of our discussion. You, in turn, must NOT divulge this information to anyone else, especially mortals, understood?"
Maya gulps, "Yeah, yeah. No worries. I...uh got that Mask thing all sorted."
Eleanor shakes her head, "Masquerade, dear. For both our sakes, DO NOT make the same mistake twice."
Maya scratches her head, "Sorry, I meant the Masquerade. I...don't wanna make the same mistake twice."
Eleanor sighs and continues, "Firstly, I will begin with the origin of...our kind. It is a very contentious subject, undoubtedly. Various cultures throughout the world have had their own unique beliefs and interpretations about the origin of Kindred. However, for the sake of simplicity, I will go over the story of Caine."
Maya furrows her brow, "Kai-nee?"
Eleanor corrects her, "More commonly referred to as Cain. The first murderer and first of our kind."
Maya grimaces, "Bible stuff, takes me back to those days at the orphanage...not great memories."
Eleanor shoots her a stern look.
"S--Sorry, please go on."
Eleanor talks about Caine, the City of Enoch, and the Antediluvians. Maya intently listens, and even takes mental notes, but her eyes glaze over sometimes.
Maya says, "Whoa," when she learns about how powerful the 3rd Generation Antediluvians were.
She then asks, "Are--are they...like still around? Do we get to meet them? Or are they hiding in a bat cave or something?"
Eleanor laughs, "No, no, they have...long since passed on, although, some have returned. However, their return was no occasion for celebration..."
Eleanor's words trail off as she begins to tell Maya about the Week Of Nightmares. It is a tale of horror, even for an Elder Tremere like Eleanor.
Maya is speechless and overwhelmed.
After a brief recollection of everything learnt so far, Eleanor moves on to the next few topics- the Sects, the Clans, and the Traditions.
"There are many Sects, but 3, well 4, are the ones you should be concerned with. The Camarilla, to which we belong. The Sabbat. The Anarchs. And lastly, the so-called Independents."
Maya has trouble pronouncing Camarilla so she says, "Caramel-la? Caralilla? Something like that, I guess. Sorry, it's like a tongue-twister for my small-town vernacular."
Eleanor simply shakes her head, "CAMA-RILL-AA."
"Riiiight, so we...answer to them."
"You will do well to keep that in mind, Maya. And be vigilant with regards to the Masquerade, especially as you begin to gain experience."
Eleanor briefly goes over the Convention Of Thorns. Next up are the Clans.
Maya asks, "So, we are Clan Tremere, right?"
"Not only Tremere, but a secret society within the Clan. We are Children Of The Pyramid."
Maya's interest is piqued, "Ooooooh, so do we have secret handshakes and cool robes?"
Eleanor waves her hand in a dismissive way, "Please, do not be so childish, Maya."
She sighs and says, "There are robes. However, those are mostly...ceremonial in nature."
What follows is mostly an unbiased exposition dump. Eleanor goes over each Clan, their Banes, Compulsions, Disciplines, and Nicknames.
Maya chuckles or shakes or head. She even says, "Ooooh", "Wow", and "Aw, that's so sad" every now and then.
Last (but not least) are the Traditions, which Eleanor describes as being the foundation of everything, and the cornerstone of Kindred existence, "They are our morals, our laws, and our customs, dear. Now, they are YOUR morals, YOUR laws, and YOUR customs."
Maya's eyes are glued to Eleanor as she speaks. She can't believe everything she's learning. There's so much more she wants to know. So much more she's curious about.
But so little time. Maybe Lucile can fill in the blanks after all this is done?
Eleanor leans in closer to Maya and says, "There are 6 Traditions. If, for some reason, you forget everything I have discussed here tonight, please, I implore you, do not forget what I am about to say."
She pauses and continues, "I know, you have a lot on your mind right now. You are in a state of great transition. But, 1 of these 6 is the most important, perhaps the most important tradition of all, and you must not, under ANY circumstances, fail to adhere to this tradition."
Maya gulps and says, "It's...it's the Masquerade, isn't it?"
"You are already acquainted with this, are you not?"
Maya says, "I've--I've heard of it. But it doesn't seem like an easy Tradition to keep up with, eh?"
"And, yet, it is the one most vital to our survival. Even the Anarchs understand that, Maya."
"So, what does it all mean, then?"
"The Masquerade is a concept of deception and illusion. We are all merely a façade, an act, an elaborate mirage. We are all nothing more than actors, in a grand theater. Ideally, we play our roles perfectly and no one suspects a thing. There is no deviation from the script, no mistakes, no hesitation, no fear, and no suspicion."
"It's like...the most elaborate, most amazing play ever!" Maya exclaims.
"In a manner of speaking, yes."
Lucile walks in, clears her throat, and says, "Sorry. Hope I'm not disturbing you 2. It's time for you to take another vial, sweetie." Lucile winks at Maya, who blows her a kiss and giggles.
Eleanor retrieves the 2nd vial from the ice box and gives it to Maya. "Drink it."
Maya does as she's told.
"Shall we continue?"
Maya says, "Um, yeah, I guess. No time like the present."
Lucile smiles to herself as she walks back to doing whatever it is she was doing.
Eleanor quickly goes over the remaining Traditions and makes sure that Maya has at least memorized them. She struggles with some of the flowery language, but does her best nonetheless.
"Of course, the other 5 Traditions are just as important. However, the Prince always has the final word in regards to what constitutes a violation."
Eleanor continues, "So it is imperative to always know and be on speaking terms with your Prince."
"So, will I get to meet the Prince, or uh...Princess? How does that work, exactly?" Maya asks.
"Prince is a 'gender-neutral' term, I believe that is the expression, yes? As for meeting our Prince, I shall present you to him when the time is right. He will be very...curious about you."
"Oh, that sounds exciting! I really wanna meet the other Tremere, y'know." Maya says.
Eleanor coldly replies, "You will do no such thing, Childe. It is nothing against you, of course. For many, it is the season of their Proving and even the smallest of disturbances could prove undesirable."
"O...oh. OK, I guess. It's cool. It's just, y'know, it's an amazing feeling, to meet more Tremere, or uh...other Kindred, I guess."
"There will be plenty of opportunities, my dear. Although, be weary, not all will have your best intentions in mind. Remember, even we Tremere are not perfect. Some have even evolved in ways that you cannot fathom."
"I--I guess. It's like the whole Beckoning thing, correct?"
"Hmph, yes, perhaps."
Maya rubs her chin and asks, "Y'know, why do we need all this secrecy anyway? It's not like there's anyone...organized and hunting us down or anything, right? Well, at least not in the 21st century!"
Eleanor shakes her head slowly, "That...is where you are gravely mistaken, Childe. The forces of the Second Inquisition are very much alive and well, and they are on the hunt for Kindred, especially those of our Clan who have found themselves without a Chantry."
"So, are they...like super-religious dudes and dudettes decked out in wacky clothes and running around asking for 'Dracula', right? Are they all weirdos?"
"Au Contraire. Many are well-respected and decent people. But, they are still dangerous to our kind. There are those among them who might indulge in the aforementioned, but that is beside the point."
"What's their deal, then? I mean, if they're all so nice and all, what's their problem with Kindred?"
Eleanor shakes her head, "It varies, my dear. It varies. Some are terribly misguided and mistaken. Some, dare I say, might have a point. Others are...simpletons. Whilst others are deeply complex. You must understand, my Childe, that the forces of the Second Inquisition are far more intertwined and full of petty factional disputes and power struggles than you can imagine. Ironically, much like Kindred on nights such as these."
"Oh. So, if we see one...do we, uh, run or do we use our powers to make them forget? W--We don't have to kill them, right? Or do we, if they're a threat?"
"I see your point. But, if you ever find yourself in a position where you must kill, do so, if you are capable."
Maya audibly gasps, "Uh...OK. I'll...keep that in mind. Are they professional vampire-hunters or something?"
"In a manner of speaking, yes. Many have military training and equipment. Moreover, they are deeply integrated into what is commonly known as the Military Industrial Complex. They have access to a vast arsenal of modern weaponry, surveillance, data, and gear, much of which is designed SPECIFICALLY for use against our kind."
"But...why would our government waste so much money on this, uh, 'Second Inquisition'?"
"A question for another time, dear." It seems Eleanor isn't too keen on discussing politics.
Maya nods her head and says, "OK, fine. What do we do if they manage to catch us, or if they find out that we're Kindred?"
"The penalty is most certainly Final Death, Childe."
"But, we're immortal, aren't we?"
Eleanor wags her finger, "Immortal, but not completely indestructible. A simple wooden stake will induce Torpor. Also, decapitation is something no Kindred would wish to experience. Lastly, there is...fire."
"Oh, wow, so that stuff about stakes is true, huh? Also, what about fire?"
"Mostly true. Stakes do not destroy, they simply incapacitate and render us powerless," Eleanor's eyes start to glaze over as she mentions this feeling of utter helplessness.
Maya notices this but opts to stay quiet.
Eleanor, still having that glazed look in her eyes, continues, "As for fire, there is our Rötschreck."
Maya laughs, "Rot-Shrek? What's that? Does it look like a big green guy telling people to get outta his swamp?" Maya imitates Shrek and his voice.
This gets no response out of Eleanor. She just keeps on staring.
Maya clears her throat and says, "Uh...sorry. Bad joke. Anyway, what is that thing?"
"Rötschreck, my dear, Röt-sch-reck," Eleanor corrects her, "It is no laughing matter. It is the Beast within reacting to the searing flames, and the possibility of its host's Final Death."
Eleanor sighs and shakes her head, "You will understand its implications later on."
Eleanor continues, "As for the Second Inquisition, you will need to keep a close watch on them at all times."
Eleanor shuffles in her seat and continues, "Never let your guard down, and NEVER, under any circumstances, trust them. Not even if they promise you the world." Eleanor says that last part with a hint of disgust and contempt in her voice.
Maya nods, "Sure. Sure."
Eleanor cracks her knuckles and declares, "I believe I've gone over mostly everything with you. If there's anything I've omitted, then there's likely a good reason for doing so. Those...topics will be discussed at a later date, when you are more mature."
Maya stretches and groans a bit, "Oh! Wow! That's a LOT! I'm not sure how I'll remember it all, to be honest."
Maya notices, "And yet I got a feeling there's more you wanna talk to me about."
She sighs and says, "Well, I'm ready if you're ready."
Eleanor knows that Maya wants to be with Lucile and can sense her frustration at being separated for so long. However, the Elder Usurper also knows that this conversation is...crucial. So, she decides to make the best out of the next few minutes.
"I won't hold you for too long. As I've told you, various Kindred of certain Clans are supposed to have certain skills and abilities, correct?"
Maya smiles, "Yep."
Eleanor stretches out both her hands, palms facing the ceiling, and asks, "And which of our Clan's 3 Disciplines do you wish to specialize in?"
Maya swallows nervously and replies, "I--I, um...what does Lucile specialize in?"
Eleanor tilts her head slightly, "Really, now? Hmph. Lucile specializes in Blood Sorcery. I would recommend choosing something else entirely to avoid redundancies. Now, which do YOU wish to choose, dear?"
She pauses, then continues, "Choose wisely, as you will be required to make extensive use of your specialized Discipline at the Proving." Eleanor can't help but smirk.
Maya shivers a bit, "So my remaining 2 choices are Dominate and Auspex." She looks down at the floor and thinks for a while.
She asks, "Can I use use more than 1 Discipline?" Her voice is slightly shaky.
Eleanor shakes her head, "Not for someone who's barely a Fledgling. Such an undertaking requires great practice and willpower, which you have not yet acquired."
Eleanor takes a deep breath and exhales, "But, the choice is yours, and you must decide now, Childe."
Maya's eyes widen.
Eleanor leans back, crosses her arms, and says, "Do not be indecisive."
Maya chuckles a bit as she says, "I've--I've uh...never been the domineering type, y'know. So I don't really know how effective I'd be at that, heh." She nervously giggles and shrugs her shoulders.
Eleanor narrows her eyes.
Maya continues, "So, I guess the only remaining choice is Auspex, then. I can't really go wrong with that, can I? Plus, it's a pretty cool name." Maya looks down at the table and then up at Eleanor.
"A wise choice, Maya. I shall present you with some...light reading material. To start raising your Auspex Level, I would suggest intently focusing on something...or someone. Then, close your eyes, and DO NOT let your mind wander. This will begin to slowly raise your level of Auspex, as you will be able to see and perceive things in a different light. Your senses will be greatly enhanced. This will aid you immensely, especially in combat."
Eleanor cracks a rare smile.
Maya does the same. She's excited.
It feels like a game, albeit a weird one.
Maya nods, "Yeah, sounds--sounds amazing! So, what about that 'reading material' you mentioned?"
"Lucile has an extensive library. I shall tell her the names of the books you are to read. She will assist you. Although, keep in mind that some of the language used in these tomes might be considered...outdated."
"Uh, OK, sure," Maya says as she's tapping her foot on the floor. She's looking over her shoulder. Her eyes light up and her face blushes a bit as she sees Lucile standing at the doorway.
Lucile's leaning against the doorway, smiling. She's wearing a gym bra with neon stripes on the sides and shorts with similar stripes.
Maya bites her lip and smiles back. She can't wait to start her new (un)life. She can't wait to see what happens. She can't wait to learn. And, most importantly, she can't wait to spend more time with Lucile.
Maya looks back at Eleanor, who has a hint of amusement on her face.
Eleanor gets up from the seat and says, "Ah, I believe it's time for your 3rd vial. I shall retrieve it and leave you for the remainder of the night. We will meet again tomorrow, when you will have a chance to begin the next step in your training."
Maya's mouth drops, "Wait, what? You mean, there's more?"
Lucile chuckles, "Muuuuuuch more."
Maya nods, "Cool!"
Lucile approaches Maya, sits on her lap, and says, "It's a lot, but we'll help you through it. Don't worry, Maya."
"Well, OK. As--As long as you're here, Lucile."
Lucile strokes Maya's hair and whispers, "Always. My poinsettia."
Maya blushes a bit. She loves when Lucile calls her that.
Eleanor hands over the 3rd vial to Maya. Lucile takes the vial from Maya's hands and says, "Here. Lemme. Open up, sweetie."
Maya obliges and opens her mouth. Lucile slowly pours the vial into Maya's mouth. Maya swallows the blood.
She closes her eyes, concentrates, and imagines a bright light.
Eleanor says, "Very well. Wait another 21 minutes and take the last vial in the box."
Lucile raises her eyebrows, "Huh? That's...only 4? Uh, Eleanor, can I have a quick word? In private."
"Certainly. If you would excuse us, Maya."
Eleanor and Lucile move away from the dining room and have a quick chat.
Lucile says, "Uh, Eleanor, I don't know what's going on here, but I remember I had 7 vials every 21 minutes after my Embrace. Did the Regents forget to pack the extra 3 vials or something?"
Eleanor gets evasive, "It is not wise to question the Regents, Lucile."
Lucile shakes her head, "N...no of course not, it's--it's just that I don't want anything to go wrong, y'know how important this step is. It binds us to The Seven."
Eleanor can't exactly remember what she did with the three-and-a-half vials that other night, so she says, "I know. But I only received three-and-a-half. It...seemed odd at the time."
Lucile nearly screams, "THREE-AND-A-HALF?! ELEANOR, WHAT THE FUCK??!!"
Eleanor's eyes widen. She's never seen Lucile get this mad.
Lucile lowers her voice and continues, "You...ugh. I--I don't know what's going on here, but something stinks. We oughta go marching back there and demand an explanation!"
Eleanor grips Lucile's bare shoulder, "We will do no such thing. Need I remind you that you are no longer on the lower rungs of the Pyramid. And, as such, your position has changed significantly. You must be mindful of how you conduct yourself and choose your words carefully, lest you attract unwanted attention."
"That's--that's besides the point!"
"Hush! There will be no more talk of this. Make sure Maya takes the last vial. We will not have this conversation again, are we clear, Childe?"
Lucile doesn't wish to escalate this, especially not when Maya's in...such a delicate state of transition, so she concedes, "Yes, my Sire. And sorry for questioning your authority."
Eleanor lets go of Lucile's shoulder and walks away.
Lucile goes back to the dining room, where Maya's waiting.
"Is everything OK, Lucile?"
Lucile kisses Maya on the head and sniffs her hair, "Peachy. You don't have to worry about a thing."
"Oooh, OK. That's...a relief, because I really wanted to have a bit of alone time with you, y'know."
"And you will, sweetie, and you will."
"Oh, uh, Eleanor told me about some books I was supposed to read, uh, something about Auspex and a bunch of other stuff."
"Auspex? You gonna specialize in Auspex? Sweeeet!" Lucile nods her head in approval.
She continues, "Oh, yeah. I have a pretty big library, but it's a mess, haha. I...well, I wasn't expecting any y'know...visitors. Anyway, we'll get you started, I'll get you settled, and we'll have a great time, OK? I'll even show you around, and then, we can be alone together."
Maya smiles and giggles, "Yeah, I can't wait!"
"Yup."
"Oh, and by the way?"
Lucile responds, "Hmmmm?"
"You look hot in that, I loooove it. You should wear more neon, it looks so great on you. It really complements your eyes. Also, are those...ankle weights?!"
Lucile laughs, "Oh...uh, wow. Heh, thanks. Yep, gotta stay in shape, right? Even though I'm kinda dead, but eh."
Lucile places her leg on the table with relative ease and speed, despite wearing those ankle weights, and shows off her leg.
Maya's hand gently glides from Lucile's ankles all the way to her thigh. She looks at Lucile, who's looking down and blushing.
Maya's hand keeps moving. She purses her lips as her hand moves closer to Lucile's crotch.
Lucile grabs Maya's hand, "Patience, patience. I gotta talk to you about...some stuff. Then, I'm all yours."
Maya licks her lips, "Oh, goody! So, uh, never skip leg day, huh?"
Lucile replies, "Eh. I try."
Maya suggestively replies, "Well, maybe I can help out with that."
Lucile responds, "Wow, Maya. Is it just me, or has the Embrace made you horny? Haha! Anyways, how can I say 'no' to THAT?"
Maya chuckles and says, "Hey, you're the one showing off your shapely bod, missy!"
"I...guess, heh. Anyway, uh, yeah. Eleanor told me to give you some books, right? Yeah, I'm gonna need time to look for ones about Auspex. I know I got 'em, it's just buried under piles of dust and other funky books."
Maya giggles as she repeats, "Funky books."
"So, let's do this. You...wanna rest for sometime while I go and look around for those books or you wanna come up and see the horror show for yourself?"
Maya shrugs, "I wanna take a look around...our place."
She's shocked as those last 2 words come out of her mouth. She'd never imagined ever saying that, let alone thinking that. But now, she has a place, a real place. No more moldy place, no more arbitrary rent increases.
For the first time in her life, she has a home. A place to call her own. Maya can't help but tear up a bit.
The tears are tears of blood, but not quite.
"Hey--Hey, what's the matter sweetie? Why the tears? Don't wanna waste any precious Vitae now, do we?"
Maya hugs Lucile, "No. No. It's just...I'm so happy. I've--I've never had a real place before, y'know. Never. It's always been hopping from apartment to apartment. Sometimes, I'd even sleep in motels if things got bad--"
"Shhhhh, that's all the past now. We are gonna have an amazing future. You and I. And it's gonna be a wild ride. I promise."
"P--P--Promise?"
"Promise."
"Then, I guess we're gonna have some fun."
"Heh, you betcha. Come on, let's go."
Lucile extends her arm, which Maya grasps, and leads her upstairs.
There are a lot of things Lucile wants to talk about, but now isn't the time. She puts it off for later. Still, she does wonder how Maya will react.
Maya looks around the room. It's...quaint.
Maya gasps as she takes in the sights. There are books everywhere. Books on the shelves, books on the tables, books on the floor, and books on the bed. Maya can't even believe it.
"Sorry, it's a bit of a mess. I didn't have time to clean up."
Maya giggles, "It's OK. It's charming. In it's own way."
She notices a small potted plant on the windowsill, "Awwwww, you have a plant!"
"Heh, yeah."
Maya blushes, "That's nice! I kept a plant once. Next day, it was on the ground outside, shattered into a million pieces. And my head was spinning on that day. Huh, weird now that I think about it..." Maya's voice trails off.
However, her attention is drawn to a few clothes scattered about on the table and bed, "Wow, you...got some nice threads here! I bet you'd look amazing in them!"
She goes over to the bed and grabs a V-Neck blouse with a low neckline, "Ooooh, I love this one! It's so soft and silky! Shame it's not my size, though." She holds it up against her body and poses.
Lucile chuckles.
Maya puts the blouse back on the bed and grabs a pair of Bermuda shorts, "These, however, look comfy!!!" She puts them on and poses again. Lucile laughs.
Maya eyes a pair of leather boots, "Wow, these are nice! They're like...real leather!" It doesn't fit sadly, "You got 'em in a bigger size for my big feet? Heh."
Maya sighs, "It's OK, though. I'll...just keep looking around."
She turns to Lucile and says, "This is amazing! I've never seen SO MANY books and clothes in one room!"
Lucile scratches the back of her neck, "Yeah, I really wanted to clean this up, but I kept putting it off."
She shrugs, "But hey, I guess this works out better, right?" She chuckles. Maya does the same.
Lucile continues, "Anyway, we better look for those books on the Auspex Discipline. I KNOW they're in here somewhere, it's just...a matter of finding them." She winks at Maya. She smiles back.
Maya goes over to the shelves and starts looking through the books. Some of them are pretty dusty, to the point where she feels like she's gonna sneeze but doesn't.
Nothing in this room can be considered "new", the pages are anything but crisp and sharp. Some of them have titles that Maya can't even pronounce. And, some of them are in languages she's never even seen before!
Lucile mumbles to herself as she rifles through a pile of tomes, "Dominate, Thaumaturgy, Blood Sorcery, nope, nope, nope. C'mon, I know you're in here somewhere!"
She looks up at Maya and asks, "Find anything yet?"
Maya shrugs and responds, "I'm...not even sure what I'm supposed to be looking for, sorry." She chuckles nervously. Lucile shakes her head and sighs.
Maya continues, "Uh...but I did find a few books that I thought were neat. This one looks like it's about the history of the Roman Empire, it's got some pretty cool pictures, too. I don't really understand the text, though. It's in Latin or something. But, the pictures are neat!" She points to a book with a picture of a chariot on its (very faded) cover.
Lucile nods and smiles.
Lucile says, "Try...looking for something with an eye on it. Or any of the sensory organs, really. Auspex is primarily concerned with enhancement of the senses." She mutters, "Maybe there's a book on how to find books, haha."
Maya giggles.
Lucile adds, "Oh, and if you find anything about uh...never mind, it's OK."
Maya smiles and nods. She continues looking through the shelves. She finds a few more books, but none of them seem to be about Auspex.
Lucile blows a raspberry and says, "Well, the consequences of my inaction is finally catching up to me? Maybe Eleanor misremembered or something?"
She looks at Maya and asks, "Did she say anything else about those books?"
Maya shakes her head, "Nope."
Just then, a book falls from one of the piles right on Maya's foot. Maya winces and lets out a small yelp.
Lucile rushes over to Maya and asks, "Are you OK? What happened?"
Maya responds, "Uh...what is that?"
Maya picks up the book, which has a very suggestive cover. It's a woman with long, flowing hair and a voluptuous figure. She's wearing a white robe that's open at the top, revealing her ample bosom. The woman is holding a golden chalice in one hand and a dagger in the other. Her eyes are closed and her lips are slightly parted.
Maya flips through the pages and sees more pictures of scantily clad women, some of them naked. There are also illustrations of various rituals and ceremonies.
Maya is intrigued, "What is this??"
Lucile blushes and says, "Oh, that's...well, it's not the Kamasutra and I KNOW I have that in here somewhere. But, that's a book on...well, um, I don't know." She chuckles nervously. Maya's eyes widen.
Lucile flips a page, "Yeah, the pictures are...pretty spicy, heh. I've never read this, though. I just kinda found it one day. It probably came with the house. Long story."
Maya's eyes are glued to the book. She's never seen anything like this before. She's mesmerized by the images but can't understand the text. It's all in Latin.
Lucile continues, "To be honest, there's a lotta stuff I haven't even read and a LOT more I misplaced. Ugh, why did I do that? Why, why, why?" She facepalms.
Maya says, "Hey, don't do that. We all forget or misplace stuff sometimes. It's not your fault." She pats Lucile on the shoulder.
Lucile smiles.
Maya adds, "But, I gotta admit, these pictures are pretty neat."
"They certainly are."
"So, what did I hear about a certain somebody having a copy of the Kamasutra?" Maya suggestively winks.
Lucile chuckles, "Yeah, I--I do. It's just buried under a bunch of other books. But, I can find it for you if you want."
"I'd like that. No, I'd love it. But, it's better we focus on finding anything related to Auspex first. I don't wanna piss Eleanor off, y'know." Maya winks.
Lucile agrees.
Maya continues, "I mean, it's not like we're gonna have a chance to use it anytime soon, right? So, I guess we can put it off for later." She shrugs.
Lucile nods, "Yeah, that's a good idea. We should probably get back to looking for those books."
Maya nods and continues searching. She finds a few more books, but none of them seem to be about Auspex.
After a few more minutes of fruitless searching, Lucile calls out, "Hey! Maya! Come here and help me with this pile. I...I think I found something, but I need your help."
Maya rushes over and helps Lucile move the pile of books.
They uncover a large, leather-bound tome. The cover is embossed with an eye surrounded by blue flames.
The cover is partially burnt and the title is barely legible. Maya opens the book and determines if the book is in English.
Alas, it is.
Old English, to be precise. Maya can't make heads or tails of it. She's never seen such a thing.
She hands the book over to Lucile, who reads the title aloud, "Anima Visus".
Lucile confirms, "Yep. 'Anima Visus' is one of the nicknames for the Auspex Discipline. This is the one, girl! This. Is. The. One." She grins and gives Maya a thumbs up.
Maya smiles and returns a double thumbs up.
Lucile says, "This is a pretty old book, so it might be a bit hard to read. But, I think you'll be able to get the gist of it. If you need any help, I'm there. I could never get my head around Auspex, to be honest." She chuckles.
Maya flips through the pages and sees more illustrations of people with their eyes closed and their hands outstretched. There are also diagrams of various organs and body parts.
Maya says, "Y'know, Eleanor told me to focus intently on something, or someone, to free my mind of distractions to help jumpstart my Auspex training. I wonder if that means I have to...meditate or something. I've never been big on spiritual stuff." She shrugs.
Lucile responds, "I don't know. I've never been good at meditation, too. I usually just zone out and watch TV or play video games. But, I guess it's worth a shot."
Maya nods, "Yeah, I guess so. I'll give it a try anyway. Who knows, maybe it'll work." She laughs.
Lucile says, "I'll be back in a bit. I just gotta ask Eleanor a few questions."
"Oh, wait, before you go. Uh...one quick question."
"Sure."
"Is--is this gonna be my bedroom??"
Lucile snickers, "What?! NO? I'm not gonna make my girlfriend sleep in a pile of books and clothes! You're sleeping with me! In the basement." She winks. Maya blushes.
Lucile continues, "No, this is just a study. I mean...guests, like Eleanor might sleep in here sometimes, but it's been years since I've had anyone set foot in my Haven."
She sighs, "Anyways, I'll be back in a few."
Maya nods, "OK, see ya!" She waves goodbye.
Lucile leaves the room.
Maya moves a pile of clothes to the side, sits down on the bed and begins reading the book. It's old in more ways than one. Some of the pages stick to one another and others are tearing or torn at the edges. Maya has to be careful not to rip the pages.
She delicately flips through the book and sees more illustrations of people meditating or focusing on various objects.
She places the tome on her lap, closes her eyes and tries to focus on the book.
Starting out simple.
However, the moment her eyes close, her hearing gets a bit more intense. She can hear the wind blowing outside, the crickets chirping, and the sound of flies buzzing around. She can also hear the sounds of people talking and laughing from the adjacent room.
Is that the TV?
Maya gasps as her eyes open wide. She looks around the room and notices that everything seems a bit sharper and clearer. She can see the individual threads on the curtains and the tiny cracks in the walls. She can even see the dust particles floating in the air and coating some of the books.
She feels like she's seeing the world for the first time.
Maya's excitement skyrockets as she realizes that she's beginning to make use of her enhanced senses. She's excited and rightly so. All she needs to do is master it.
No pressure, right?
Maya takes a deep breath and closes her eyes again. She focuses on the book and tries to block out all other sounds and sights. She can feel her heartbeat quicken and her new blood rushing through her veins.
She clenches her fists and grits her teeth as she concentrates.
After a few moments, she opens her eyes and sees that the book is still blurry. She sighs and tries again. She closes her eyes and focuses on the book.
Before doing so, she looks at it from all sides and angles so as to form a better mental image of it.
Meanwhile, Lucile is speaking with Eleanor. Eleanor is watching the small TV in the room. She's not really paying attention to it, but she's trying to keep herself occupied.
Eleanor asks, "Is something bothering you, Lucile?"
"A lot. Those damn vials, for starters."
Eleanor sighs deeply.
Lucile shakes her head and continues, "I--I gotta tell her the history of th--our place now, right? It's only fair that she knows. I don't want any secrets between us. I love her and you shouldn't keep secrets from the ones you truly love." She swallows nervously.
Eleanor nods, "Yes, I believe it is time for her to know. But, you must be careful with how you deliver this information. You must be mindful of her reaction, Lucile. Maya is already proving to be quite...perceptive. She will be able to tell if you are lying or hiding something. So, choose your words wisely."
Eleanor continues, "Speaking of, you must tell her about your...new job. I believe that is of greater importance than what happened all those dreadful years ago."
Lucile clenches her fists, "Shit. I--I forgot about that. Yeah, I guess I gotta tell her. I mean, she's gonna find out sooner or later. I just hope she doesn't hate me for it." She lets out an exasperated sigh.
Eleanor replies, "She won't. But, she will be immensely disappointed. However, take comfort in the fact that it is only for a few weeks. After that, you 2 are free to do as you please. If need be, I shall make sure of it."
Lucile says, "You'd--You'd do that for us? Well, hey, thanks, Eleanor! I appreciate it. I really do! I won't let you down!"
"Of course. Now, go and speak with Maya. And remember, be delicate."
"I will."
"Oh, and Eleanor?"
"Yes, Childe?"
"Maya said you got the names of some books you want her to go through? You wanna tell me what they are so I can find 'em?"
Eleanor is caught off guard and says, "Oh, yes...the names of those particular tomes have eluded me at the moment. It must be the toll of the Embrace. I...shall give them to you tomorrow."
Lucile raises an eyebrow, "Uh-huh. Well, OK then. I guess I'll just have to go and try to look for 'em myself. Thanks, Eleanor."
Eleanor nods, "You are most welcome."
Lucile goes back to the messy room.
Maya's still sitting on the bed, her eyes closed and her hands clasped together.
Lucile moves some stuff around, sits next to Maya, and whispers, "Hey, sweetie, whatcha doin'?"
Maya's eyes open and her jaw drops.
She sees a clearer Lucile and notices her details like her individual hair follicles.
Maya says, "It--it worked. It's really working. I--I can see and hear A LOT." She takes a look around the room and sees every speck of dust and every individual crack on the walls. The colors of everything around her seem more saturated.
She feels overwhelmed by her new heightened senses. But, she knows she has to adjust and get used to them. If she can do that, it'll make the process of training up her Auspex Discipline a whole lot easier.
Lucile's finger glides down Maya's shoulder to her elbow and then down to her hand. Maya shudders. She looks into Lucile's eyes and smiles.
She sees something strange in Lucile's eyes, but it's too small for Maya to tell.
Lucile chuckles nervously, "Um...y'know when we were on our date and I told you about this new job 'offer' I took up?" She scratches the back of her neck, "I forgot to tell you something about that."
Her heart drops. She hopes Maya isn't going to take the news well.
It's too late for her to back out. She knows Eleanor's words.
It's too late to go back now, so Lucile continues, "Yeah, well, it's gonna...gonna require me to do a lot of driving at night. For a few weeks. It's nothing to worry about, just a short stint of driving from this place to another, delivering packages and stuff."
Maya, clearly disappointed, looks down at her knees and says, "I--I guess it's a good thing I got Embraced before you leave..." She fiddles with the pages of the book.
Lucile bites her lip and looks at the floor, "I didn't know how else to tell you, sweetie. And I didn't wanna beat around the bush and lead you on, it...wouldn't have been right. I mean it would be...wrong. Yeah, wrong. Very wrong."
She then adds, "There's another thing I wanna talk to you about..."
Maya sighs, "Oh no, is this some 'good news/bad news' deal, y'know?" She chuckles weakly. She knows Lucile isn't going to say what she hopes. She just knows. She hopes that her hunch isn't true.
Lucile caresses Maya's head, "Yeah...it is. I don't--I don't like doing this either, but you deserve to know and...I don't wanna hide anything from you. You know that, Maya."
"I don't wanna hide anything from you either, Lucile."
Lucile feels reassured and smiles, "I'm glad you feel that way. Don't worry, it's nothing too bad."
She scratches the back of her head and says, "Well, here's the thing...you can't tell anybody about any of this, ok?"
Maya looks at Lucile with a mixture of fear and worry, "Oh, Masquerade stuff, right?"
Lucile clicks her tongue and is uncertain, "Probably. It's...more to do with the history of this place. But, it is about the Masquerade as well. Just don't tell anyone anything."
She sighs, "But, uh, don't worry. I'm gonna explain everything. It'll just...it'll just be kinda hard for me to have to relive this, but I gotta do it. For you. For us. You GOTTA know about this. OK?"
Maya nods, "Yeah, of course! You're the only person I can tell everything to. I promise, I'll keep this a secret."
Lucile smiles and gives Maya a peck on the cheek, "Thank you. You'll forgive me if I...pause from time to time to collect my thoughts or to take a quick breather or two."
Maya responds, "It's fine, you take as much time as you want, Lucile. I don't wanna rush you." She rubs Lucile's shoulder.
Lucile fluffs one of the dusty pillows and places it against the headboard. She sits next to Maya and the 2 of them sit together, holding hands.
Lucile sighs deeply and looks down at the floor, "Well, it all happened during the Week Of Nightmares..."
1999...
A Fledgling Lucile was still under the tutelage of her Sire. Quite recently Embraced and graduated from Harvard, Lucile was eager and excited.
The 2 were driving at night on an empty road, towards Eleanor's Haven.
It was a clear night, but it was quite cold. Fireworks could be seen and heard from the distance. A local fair was going on and, unbeknownst to the 2 vampires, the town they were passing through was quite busy.
Many of the people would be up for the night and Lucile was able to sense many of them.
Lucile speaks up, "So, i...it's real, then? Zapathasura? He's awake???"
Eleanor, with a heavy heart, sighs deeply. She knew the Fledgling was gonna ask. And, she was ready to answer. But, not so sure of what to say.
So, she responds, "Rumors, my dear Childe. Rumors. That's all it is. Some of the Malkavian Oracles claimed to have foreseen his coming. Others believe he is long gone, erased from the earth and what appears is a glorified Wight instead."
Eleanor continues, "However, WE can not afford to be careless, to be lax, or to let our guard down."
Lucile scratches her head and rolls down the window a bit more, "So, what are we doing in this town, then? There's like a ton people here, are we gonna...like protect all of 'em or something?"
Eleanor shakes her head in the negative as she attempts to change the subject, "How fares your training, young one?"
Lucile responds, "Um, uh, well, y'know, I've been reading the stuff you gave me, and it's kinda hard. I've been struggling a bit to master it. Specific blood types are A LOT harder to come by now that I'm no longer at Harvard. The donors were pretty easy to find. Not so much anymore."
Eleanor nods in understanding, "I see." She looks at the road and turns to the next lane.
Lucile continues, "B--But, don't worry, though. It's just been hard. What I need is a place...a Haven of my own so I can really focus and hone my skills! I mean, the rooms at the Boston Chantry were nice, but the other Tremere there didn't seem...too interested in well, y'know how it was, Eleanor. Of course, I don't mean to speak outta line or anything, but--"
Lucile's words trail off as she sees someone in trouble, "There's...someone. Eleanor, LOOK, someone's hurt! In the alley to our right, there's someone injured, badly!"
Lucile looks up at the sign and sees the words: "You are now leaving..."
She's confused as the paint is scratched out and the words are barely discernable.
Lucile gets out of the car before it stops and runs over to the injured person. As she gets closer, she can see that he is covered in blood. The young man is leaning against a brick wall, his head bowed and his hand clutched to his side.
Blood is seeping from between his fingers and there is a large pool of it on the ground beneath him.
His face is scratched, hair looking like it's been nearly torn out, and he has a black eye. Lucile, not caring about getting any of the blood on her clothes, runs up to him and asks, "Hey, buddy, what's going on? Are you OK???"
The man weakly opens his eyes and responds, "T...they were in there. H...help m...me. G...go in there and...shit! I gotta sit down."
Lucile hesitantly approaches the door, which is ajar, and cautiously steps inside. The man coughs and chokes and then goes silent. Lucile is shaking and sweating.
She takes out her a flashlight from her purse, but her hands are shaking and she drops it.
"Damn it!"
As she bends down to pick it up, her hands touch something liquidy and sticky. She immediately recoils and steps back. She shrieks, "OH GOD!!! NO!!"
The man's hand twitches and he gasps for breath, "Pl...please, someone. H...help--"
The dropped flashlight is partially covered in blood, so she picks it up with her sleeve and uses it to illuminate the area around her. As her flashlight travels across the ground, she sees an enormous amount of blood.
That's not the only thing her flashlight shines over, however.
Lucile gasps in fear as she sees what appears to be a severed arm laying in a pool of blood. The skin is pale and the fingernails are painted black. She turns around and sees that the door to the front is open.
Her eyes travel upward and she sees a giant gouge in the door frame, like someone tried to rip it open. The gash goes from the top of the door all the way down to the floor.
There are also bloody fingerprints on the wall next to it.
She takes another look at the arm and sees that its bone has been split open. Lucile lets out a small gasp as she looks away in horror. She doesn't want to think about what happened to this poor woman.
Her hands are shaking and she feels sick to her stomach. Or about as "sick" as a Kindred can feel.
She tries to put off the thought of where the rest of this woman is.
As she's walking towards the light switch, she slips on a pool of blood, landing hard on her knees. The flashlight rolls away from her and hits a nearby wall, making a loud clanging noise.
She whimpers as she tries to stand, "Nnngh."
As she gets up, she notices that the blood is still fresh and warm. There is also a lot of it on the floor and walls.
The blood is still dripping down from the ceiling and there are small puddles in various places around the room and on the walls.
Lucile panics as she looks down and sees her palms are covered in blood. She desperately rubs them against the walls and floor, but they don't come off.
Lucile whines and her eyes are glued to her red hands. The scent of the blood is overpowering. The Beast within her just wants to lick it up like a dog, but Lucile's newfound conscience makes her resist.
However, that resistance is starting to break down as Lucile starts to lick the blood off her palms.
"This--this is so so wrong, b...but I'm hungry. H...haven't fed since--"
Lucile budges, gets down on all fours, and slowly crawls towards a large puddle of blood in the middle of the room.
As she reaches her arm towards the pool, her head is snapped upward as she hears a voice call out to her from above.
"Lucile! What in god's name are you doing? This is NOT how a Tremere is to act! Come away from that, please." It's Eleanor, her Sire.
Lucile shakes her head and groans, feeling a bit embarrassed.
Eleanor continues, "Now, get up!"
Lucile's clothes are stained in innocent blood and she can't even begin to think of how Eleanor is gonna react to seeing this.
The Elder Tremere speaks, "Lucile, we must be quick. We cannot stay here and draw attention to ourselves."
"T...this is a crime scene, Eleanor. These...poor people. It's not Za...Zapa--"
Eleanor cuts her off, "No. But there is something...unusual going on. We need to find out what happened. For the sake of the Masquerade, Childe."
She shakes her head and mutters under her breath, "I sense a disturbance, but I'm not quite sure how to describe it."
"What about that guy outside? We gotta help him, right?"
"Worry not, I have called for an ambulance for him. Now, let's take a look around before they get here, shall we? There's something...strange here. I can feel it." She gestures Lucile to follow her as the 2 begin to walk around.
Lucile takes a moment to calm herself and collect her thoughts, "The scratch marks on this...torso or what's left of it."
Eleanor kneels down to get a closer look at it, "Hmmm."
Lucile continues, "Those look like the scratches of some large animal, like a bear or something, right?"
She quickly realizes, "Oh no. Wait. It--It can't be? C...can it, Eleanor?"
"We must not rule out any possibilities. It could be a rabid animal or a deranged individual. Either way, we cannot afford to be careless, Childe," Eleanor says as she stands up.
She then looks around and sees a few other bodies, "Horrible. Who or what could've done this?"
Lucile, still concerned about the injured man outside asks, "Is...is he doing OK? Where's that ambulance?"
Eleanor replies, "I am certain he will live. His heart is still beating and I...convinced him to hold out. Now, let's search the room for any clues."
Lucile naively asks, "Clues? Isn't that the responsibility of the police? We can't be interfering with an active crime scene. It'd be...it'd be dumb for us to do that, right?"
Eleanor responds, "There isn't anyone coming. I called an ambulance, yes, but today is the 4th of July. As such, the police will likely not show up as they will be busy elsewhere. At least the ambulance will be here soon."
Eleanor sighs, "There is something...not right here. Do you feel a certain disturbance, Lucile?"
Lucile is still looking at the mangled and torn up corpses, "Huh? Wha...uh...not sure what you mean. Sorry. I'm a bit shaken."
Eleanor shakes her head and walks over to a body that is still intact, but completely dead.
She kneels down besides the corpse. The convenience store worker lying dead on the floor, face filled with shock and dread. He can't have been more than 18 years old. Sad. Eleanor's eyes dart back and forth as she examines the body, "Curious."
She touches the body and inspects it. Her finger grazes the bloodied lips and she smells the blood on her finger, "Even more curious."
She turns over the boy's neck and it's as she suspected, 4 deep puncture wounds are present. However, something isn't right. Something isn't quite adding up.
Eleanor looks up at the ceiling and then the walls and then back to the boy, "Yes, definitely curious."
Sensing the ambulance isn't too far off, Eleanor shuts her eyes, stretches out her hands, and activates her Auspex Discipline. She isn't quite ready for what came next. Her eyes are now open and her mouth agape. She can see 2 faint, ashen silhouettes. Their aura is not normal, by any means.
Eleanor is certain of that.
However, it is the aura of something not...human. The Elder Usurper knows this. Her eyes travel to the ground and see the faintest outline footprints leading to and from the convenience store.
Whatever did this was strong. Stronger than an Elder and stronger than her Childe. And, that's not something you'd wanna go up against. Especially not on a night such as this.
She needs to warn Lucile, and she will.
Eleanor focuses her Auspex and a trail, almost like an astral GPS line, begins to materialize and leads out the door. She can't make out exactly what it is, but it's certainly leading somewhere. The aura is...dark and tainted. Almost as if it was...corrupted and inviting the duo to follow.
Eleanor, knowing better than to chase after it, is hesitant to pursue the trail.
That trail could be key to finding the perpetrators. However, it's still too early for Eleanor to make any assumptions.
Eleanor opens her eyes and her mouth is still slightly open, "Lucile. We must leave now. Do not look back, do not question me, just LEAVE."
Lucile nearly slips on another pool of blood as she scrambles through the back door and to the car.
Eleanor briskly walks behind her and locks the doors. As the 2 speed away, Lucile can see the ambulance approaching the scene.
The 2 vampires can only hope they will save the poor man. They can't tell anyone anything, as that would mean risking the Masquerade.
Lucile's demeanor changes to a more serious one, "We're not gonna tell anyone about this, right? It's not safe for us, it's not safe for the people of the town, and it's not safe for the Masquerade."
Eleanor, clearly perplexed by the turn of events, shakes her head, "No, no, Childe. We mustn't. But, we cannot just sit idly by, either. Whoever or whatever did that is a threat to the Masquerade, to our existence, and to the Kindred themselves." She grips the steering wheel and grits her teeth.
She doesn't want to admit it, but even she feels helpless.
Lucile asks, "It's a Wight, isn't it? I...I heard about 'em back in Boston, but this is different, right? What do you think, Eleanor? C'mon, talk to me, I need your help!"
Eleanor shrugs, "That was too deliberate and dare I say, calculated to be the doing of a mere Wight, no matter how powerful or Frenzied."
She adds, "We will be taking a slight detour. There are things I must consider. You should, too."
She glances over to Lucile, "There is one place that will have the answers we seek."
Lucile swallows deeply and says, "You don't mean...the--the House of Hermes? Are you sure? Isn't there another way to do this?"
Eleanor shakes her head, "There are no other options. Besides, we are of the Pyramid. They will grant us an audience should we so desire one. They are quite friendly, so there is no need to worry. It will be alright, my Childe." Eleanor gives Lucile a reassuring pat on the head.
"Heh. I only thought Fledglings like me were only allowed to enter the House of Hermes for our Proving."
"This is an emergency, Lucile. They will understand." Eleanor smiles, "And, maybe we will find you a gift there. Perhaps you will find a suitable gift for yourself. Something...practical."
Lucile laughs and blushes. She can't deny she wants a new item or two from the House.
She's heard they have a special ring that makes Blood Thaumaturgy easier. She would love a gift like that. If not that, perhaps a book. Books are always welcome for a woman like her.
Maybe some new clothes or jewelry? A magic necklace maybe? Or a bracelet? Or earrings?
The House of Hermes always had some neat little trinket to bestow upon those they deemed worthy. Or to those outsiders who have provided aid to the House.
Fireworks go off in the distance, each one louder and brighter than the previous. Lucile's Rötschreck kicks in. The sounds of the explosions cause her to flinch and shudder.
She tries her best to keep a level head, but the Beast is starting to take hold of her, begging to be let out or to go away from this place as far as possible and hide under a rock or something.
But, Lucile knows she has to stay put. Eleanor will guide her. That is the way it's been since her Embrace. Since that starry night, when the world she knew was changed forever. Forever changed for the better, in her eyes.
Lucile has been nothing but a good student in the eyes of her Sire and she will continue to do so.
Eleanor can sense her Childe's discomfort and she asks, "Are you feeling OK, Childe? Close your eyes and try to focus on something else instead."
Eleanor continues, "The night will be over soon. But, it is not time to rest. Not yet."
She takes her right hand off the wheel and caresses Lucile's head, running her fingers through her messy brown hair, "Not until we get to the bottom of this...mystery."
Lucile fiddles with the air conditioning vent, "You...uh saw the bite marks on those people, didn't you. That's a major Masquerade violation, Eleanor. What kind of a monster would just do something like that and run off? What if the cops find out and start investigating?"
Eleanor, trying to remain calm, says, "They will not find out, Lucile. Do not fret. The Prince of this town will handle it, I'm certain. He will have no choice. And, if he does not, well, I shall speak with him personally."
She makes a sharp turn and continues, "And, the Masquerade will remain intact. As it has always been. This is just a small, unfortunate event. Nothing more. It will be fine, my Childe. It will be fine."
Lucile asks, "So, who is the Prince of this town anyway? Uh...what's this town even called?"
"Plaintry. I believe he is a Toreador named Gideon, no, Gibson...no, sorry, I learnt of his name only a night ago. I can't seem to recall."
She sighs, "I was informed by the local Regent."
Eleanor sighs again, "As for the Prince, I'm not too familiar with him. But, Toreadors are always good at maintaining the Masquerade through more...subtle means, so I'm sure he will take the proper precautions."
She adds, "The Regents will surely know more." She grips the wheel tighter and continues, "This is troubling. I only hope the others have called a Blood Hunt for the perpetrators."
Eleanor can only hope. The last thing the Kindred of this town want is a rogue monster running around and causing chaos and carnage. Especially a rogue one that is capable of ferociously killing and feeding on an entire convenience store full of mortals.
But, this was no Frenzied monster under the permanent hold of the Beast. This...was something far worse, as the duo would soon find out.
Worse yet, was the concerted effort to cover all of this up.
The night breeze has a certain strangeness to it. Like it's not just the air that is flowing, but something else as well. Something that shouldn't be. But, something is.
The car eventually pulls up to a structure right in the middle of the woods- it's the House of Hermes.
Lucile opens the door and remarks, "Wow. It's really pretty." The 2 begin to approach the structure and as they draw nearer, the structure seems to grow and expand in size, revealing a door.
The 2 proceed to look up, and the structure is even more majestic than it was from afar.
A person in maroon robes approaches the duo, staff in hand. Their hood is pulled back, revealing their face. They have a very androgynous appearance. Shaved head. Clean-shaven face. Faded eyebrows, gaunt face. No sign of wrinkles or other blemishes.
Their voice is cold and steely, "Eleanor. Welcome. A pleasure to see you again. However, you have no business here. Leave."
Eleanor stands her ground, "I would beg to differ. We have urgent business here. We require...assistance."
The robed figure's face is unchanging, "Assistance, you say. Regarding what?"
Eleanor explains, "Something has been unleashed upon this town and its surroundings. Do you not feel it? There is a strange disturbance here, and it is not the work of the Sabbat. It is the work of something much more dangerous. Much more...sinister."
The figure's face changes and they now appear concerned, "Very well. You may enter. However, you'll have to wait as the Regents are...in the middle of a ritual. You know how these things are."
They continue, "I'm sorry. It is just something that cannot be helped. Now, come. I'll show you to a room. You and the Fledgling may stay here for the night."
Eleanor is insistent, "I'm afraid those...things may yet strike again."
The keeper lets out an audible grunt and insists, "The Regents will speak with you when the ritual is done. For now, please, make yourselves at home. Rest easy and know that you are in safe hands." They lead the 2 inside.
As the duo are led through the halls, Lucile takes a good look around her. Orange light bulbs adorn the ceiling and there are bookshelves on the walls. They are filled with tomes and artifacts. A few are glowing and some seem to have their own aura.
The room is filled with the scent of incense and the smoke seems to hang in the air.
The guest room is rather large and its windows are draped in thick black curtains, which are closed. The floor is made of porcelain, marble, and tile, giving it an otherworldly appearance. A few lamps are placed here and there and the scent of jasmine hangs strong in the air.
The room itself has an ominous feel to it, but Lucile can't put her finger on why.
It's not because of the House but the occupants within.
Eleanor, her body slouching, plops onto a nearby couch, "Please, Childe. Get some rest. We will need our wits about us. Especially if those things decide to strike again."
The keeper approaches, holding a tray with a teapot, 2 cups, and a box of sugar cubes. They set the tray down on a nearby table, "Here, drink. It will calm your nerves and refresh your body."
It's not herbal tea, that's for certain!
Eleanor pours some of the blood into a cup.
Lucile rubs her hands together, grabs a sugar cube, bites down on it and giggles, "Thanks! I needed this!" She tosses not 1, not 2, not 3, but 5 sugar cubes into her cup, pours the blood in, mixes it with a spoon, and chugs it down.
The blood is very sweet and tastes quite delicious. It's not like normal blood. It's much richer, thicker, and more filling. It's not quite a meal, but it's still good enough.
Eleanor reclines in her comfy sofa while Lucile loiters the halls, pulling out random tomes and flipping through them. She can't quite figure out what they are, but she's curious to read them.
One book, in particular, catches her attention. She takes the book and goes back into the room.
The book in question is titled: "The Travels of Fedoso: Abridged". It should be noted that "The Travels of Fedoso" is a seminal work for the Children Of The Pyramid. The Abridged version is much more accessible and can be easily read by the initiate into the secret Tremere society.
Lucile takes a seat on a nearby chair, places the book on her lap, and begins reading.
Just then, an old man climbs up the stairs. His breathing is erratic and his face is pale. He is clad in a red robe and covered in blood. He looks as if he has not slept in a very long time. His eyes are bloodshot and he can barely stand.
Eleanor springs up from her seat and approaches him, "Theodore! Is everything alright? My goodness, what happened to you?! I thought you were in the middle of a ritual with the other Regents."
Theodore weakly responds, "I--I was. But, I couldn't. They...they're all gone, Eleanor."
"WHAT?!"
Lucile's eyes dart from the book to the conversation in front of her. Her hands are shaking. She quickly puts the book on the side table and goes to see what the duo are talking about.
Eleanor asks, "What are you saying? How is that even possible? What in god's name were you doing down there anyway?!"
Theodore curtly nods at Lucile and grabs onto her hand so he doesn't fall, "Eleanor, it is imperative that we do not let the others know. Not yet. They cannot find out."
Eleanor is confused, "Find what out, Theodore?!"
Lucile gently leads the Regent to a sofa and he takes a seat. She looks at him with concern, "Sir, Mister, are you OK? Can I get you anything?"
He waves her off, "It's OK. I'm alright. Ah, I...assume you're Lucile. Eleanor speaks highly of you, Fledgling. It is such a shame we could not have met under more...pleasant circumstances."
Lucile smiles and sits next to him. She asks, "How did you get this blood on you? It looks fresh."
He replies, "Yes. Most tragic indeed. We underestimated what we were truly up against."
Eleanor shakes her head and rubs her temples, "What do you mean you 'underestimated what we were up against'?"
Theodore continues, "At first, we thought it was merely one Wight--"
Lucile has a moment of revelation and interrupts, "It attacked a convenience store!"
Eleanor looks at Lucile, "Yes. So, it IS a Wight, then." She turns back to Theodore, "Well, do go on."
"No, not a Wight. Although, I'm now wishing it was..." His voice breaks, "It was something I'd never thought we'd ever encounter on nights such as these."
Eleanor sits down and listens intently.
He swallows deeply, his hands still shaking as sweat beads and solemn tears of blood roll down his face.
He continues, "A Methuselah. 2 of them. This is unprecedented. I know not where or how they arrived. But, I suppose there is no need to explain what a Methuselah is, is there?"
He doesn't allow them to answer and continues, "We tried. We tried to banish them. The usual ritual we've used hundreds of times in the past to banish Wights and other...wayward Kindred. But, as you can see, it did not work. They...somehow focused their immense Willpower and manged to destroy everyone in the ritual chamber. Save for one."
The look of trauma on his face is very real. His hands continue to tremble and his breathing is becoming even more erratic.
Eleanor tries to comfort him, "Calm yourself. There must be some way of thwarting them. Has the Prince been informed. How about the Sheriff? A Blood Hunt MUST be called."
Theodore scoffs, "The Prince. Pfft. Bloody Toreador. He's away. Entertaining a friend of his or some such nonsense. And the Sheriff...well, he was sent to the 'Haven' of these Methuselahs along with a few capable Nosferatus. But he's just one man. And, I have not heard from him since. That is why we were attempting the ritual- to possibly assist in the Blood Hunt."
Eleanor's eyes dart back and forth, "These Methuselahs have a Haven? Where is it?"
Theodore nods, "Some...damned cottage as far as I've been told."
Lucile innocently asks, "Is--is this connected with the reawakening of Zapathasura?"
Eleanor snaps at her Childe, "That is not important! Do not speak of such things!"
Theodore raises his hands to calm Eleanor, "Perhaps. It is most likely."
Going back to the subject at hand, he continues, "We should've be able to handle this ourselves, but, alas, we could not."
An ear-piercing shriek can be heard from the lower floors of this structure. Lucile jerks her head and Theodore looks over in that direction, "Well, it would appear she is still in a Frenzy. I...must put her out of her misery."
Eleanor asks, "Who is it?"
"It is Helena, you knew her, yes?"
Eleanor pensively nods and says nothing.
"A damn good Regent. She held on to the very end, Eleanor. But, now she is too far gone. Damn those Methuselahs."
Lucile gasps, "You're gonna destroy her?! You can't!"
Theodore shakes his head in regret, "Once the Beast has taken over, once you are Frenzied beyond all reason, you can't be...saved. It is a tragedy."
However, by the looks of him, he couldn't put a dying insect out of its misery.
The keeper, staff gripped tightly in hand, approaches the 2 and stands in front of Theodore. Their eyes narrow and the room is engulfed in silence.
The 3 vampires are looking at the robed figure.
"Theodore. We need to discuss what our next course of action is. You, of course, are in no shape to destroy Helena. I take it upon myself, as keeper of the House of Hermes, to do what must be done."
They bow down, "It shall be quick and merciful." Then, they get up, twirl their staff around, hit it on the ground, and point it up at the sky, "I'll make sure the sanctity of the Pyramid remains intact."
Theodore simply nods, "Do as you must, keeper." He sighs, "Do as you must."
Before he could finish, the keeper walks away and into the lower floors.
Lucile says, "That's messed up."
Eleanor replies, "It is the way of our Clan, my Childe."
She turns her attention to Theodore, "Have you any idea on what we can do to destroy or perhaps banish these 2 Methuselahs? Do we even know anything else about them?"
Theodore weakly shrugs his shoulders, "All we know of is their immense power...and handiwork. There have been numerous violent killings in this town over the past few weeks. It is not hard to imagine that these vile things have been the cause. But, we have no idea what their intentions are or what exactly they are doing here. They could just be passing through or...they could be preparing for something."
Lucile asks, "Weeks?! But Zapathasura--"
Eleanor shouts at her Childe, "ENOUGH! This is not the time!" She shakes her head, "So, these Methuselahs have been here for quite a while? How did they elude the Prince and the Sheriff for so long, then?"
Theodore grunts, "The Prince has a very laissez-faire approach to matters such as this. He does not like to interfere in the affairs of the Kindred unless he is given no other choice. Even then, it's doubtful he'd care. And, the Sheriff, a Toreador himself, is currently in the process of tracking them down. Or, so we thought."
Eleanor says, with a tone of desperation, "If our best ritualists were unable to stop them, I shudder to think what awaits the Sheriff and those Nosferatus. We must go and assist them, Theodore."
"No. I--I cannot. But, you are welcome to try." His tone betrays his lack of confidence in Eleanor and Lucile.
Lucile asks, "But, h--how do we destroy a freakin' Methuselah?"
Eleanor replies, "How we destroy any other Kindred- a stake through the chest followed by decapitation."
Theodore lightly chuckles, "You always had a penchant for that, didn't you, Eleanor?"
Eleanor shoots him a dirty look.
Theodore says, "Hmmm. Ah, never mind. Yet, such has never been tried against a Methuselah. How would one even get close to them? It is said that their involuntary physical motions have ceased entirely. Almost like statues. They are, moreover, thousands of years old, some of them having been in the presence of the Antediluvians themselves."
Eleanor reassures him, "Everything...and everyone has a weakness."
He shakes his head, "Many have reached a state where t--the blood of ordinary mortals no longer satisfies them. Which means they WILL likely resort to Diablerie...or WORSE! It's suicide, Eleanor!"
Lucile cuts in, "And if we do nothing we risk not only more innocent blood on our hands but also blatant violations of the Masquerade! Those 2...freaks have already killed so many people! We have the power to stop them and to do nothing would be selfish and cruel!"
Theodore approvingly says, "You have thought her well, Eleanor."
Eleanor simply looks at Theodore and then at Lucile. She sighs, "Very well. We will go."
Theodore shakes his head, "I'm afraid I won't be able to 'tag along' as they say. Well, not in this state anyways. Allow me time to...gather my strength and I shall perhaps come to your assistance."
He tries to get up from his seat, but his legs give out.
Eleanor places her hand on his shoulder, "Take your time. We will handle this."
Theodore coughs, "I wish you the best of luck. Oh, do you even know where their 'Haven' is?"
Eleanor nods, "I saw it in Auspex. We'll find it."
Lucile adds, "I'll be there for you, Eleanor. But, wouldn't it be nice if we had like...uh, weapons or something? Like the staff that uh...dude or chick or whatever was holding? We can use that."
Eleanor shakes her head, "We cannot. This House has been entrusted to The Children of the Pyramid and its more important members. To use their artifacts or weapons for our own personal gain is to violate the code of this sanctum. We are the chosen few and we have a duty to maintain the balance. It is not for us to interfere with the affairs of the Pyramid. Besides, our Blood is potent enough to fight the Methuselahs, should we have to."
Eleanor doesn't seem confident in saying that last part, but she has to be courageous- for her Childe, at least.
Lucile raises her eyebrows, "Uh. O-K, I guess. Ca--Can I have another quick sip of that blood? Uh, please?"
"Make it quick, time is not a luxury we have."
Lucile erratically pours some blood from the teapot into a cup to the point where the cup overflows and some of the blood splashes onto the nearby table and trickles onto the floor.
She then takes a sip and quickly gulps down the rest of the cup.
Theodore shakes his head, "Manners, my dear. Oh, never mind. The keeper will clean all this up, no doubt." He says, "Please, be careful."
Eleanor approaches Lucile, "Come, let us go."
Lucile wipes some blood off the side of her mouth and follows Eleanor back to the car. As the duo are leaving, the keeper approaches them, holding a bag full of items in their hand. There is blood dripping through the fabric of the bag.
The keeper asks, "Where are you going?"
Lucile puts her hands on her hips and confidently replies, "To destroy those Methuselahs."
The keeper struggles to hold back their snicker, "The greatest Regents of this House were unable to banish them and yet a Fledgling thinks she can stop them? Amuse me, what Discipline have you chosen to specialize in?"
Lucile's attitude turns serious and her tone is grim as she replies, "What are you implying? Hmmmm, that a Fledgling can't do it? As for my Discipline, well uh...here's the thing--"
The keeper scoffs, "As suspected. Still undecided. Eleanor, please teach your Childe some humility, will you?"
Eleanor sternly replies, "You may not speak to her in such a manner. She is of the Pyramid and will be treated as such."
Lucile, hands still on her hips, stretches out one hand and points, "Yeah, baldy! I'm of the Pyramid. You gotta show me the same respect you show an Elder or a Regent or...or--"
Eleanor places her hand on Lucile's shoulder, "That is enough, Childe. I believe the keeper here has...taken our point into consideration. Yes, keeper?"
The keeper groans, "Yes. I spoke out of line. I...apologize. It has been a trying ordeal. You do not know the horrors I was subjected to when I entered that ritual chamber. Bodies strewn everywhere. Heads burst wide open. Others turned or turning to ash in front of me. My mentors, teachers, and yes even those considered friends all meeting Final Death in the most gruesome of ways."
They pause to gather their thoughts and continue, "I cannot express the terror and confusion that coursed through me at that moment. It was overwhelming, to say the least. I was the only one left, but as I entered I was too scared to move, too scared to even think. Helena was in the corner, devouring the corpse of another Regent. Her eyes...it was no longer her, but the Beast. And, there was no one else left. Not one soul."
The keeper's voice quivers a bit, "I'm sorry. I have not had the chance to...properly process all of it just yet..."
A single tear of blood starts to trickle down their cheek, and they quickly wipe it away.
They continue, "But, it is already finished. I will have plenty of time to process this later." They hang their head down and look away from Eleanor and Lucile.
A few more droplets of blood hit the floor. They clear their throat and turn back to the duo, "Go, and may Fedoso illuminate your steps."
Eleanor bows her head curtly.
Lucile says, "Um...for what it's worth, I'm sorry I...called you a 'baldy'. I didn't mean to hurt your feelings or anything."
She smiles, "You're pretty essential to this place."
The keeper gently smiles, "It is alright, Fledgling. I have been called...far worse, both in my life and Unlife. And, you have not offended me. I appreciate your sincerity. You are forgiven."
Lucile smiles back and points to the bag the keeper is holding, "Uh...what's in the bag?"
The keeper holds up the bag, "I'm afraid it is not a parting gift. These...objects are still tainted with the energies of those vile Methuselahs. I must go down to the furnace and destroy them. I am almost a century old and even I do not know how to properly deal with something that is so...corrupted. It is not just their essence that permeates these objects. It is their power that lingers as well."
They shudder, "It is disgusting and perverse. But, this is a burden that falls upon the keeper of the House of Hermes. Goodbye, ladies. Should we meet again, let us hope it is under...more favorable circumstances, yes?"
Eleanor responds, "Yes, keeper."
Lucile smiles, "Yup!"
The keeper grips the bag tightly and makes their way to the lower level of the House.
Oddly enough, this is the last time the duo saw the keeper. On revisits to the House, the keeper was...simply not there and any questions about their absence were met with disdainful scorns and apathetic shrugs from the new Regents.
The 2 continue making their way back to the car. Lucile can't help but notice how dark the night has become and the air seems heavier and stagnant, as if all life has been sucked out of it.
Seeing that this is the 4th of July, fireworks can still be heard going off.
Some of the fireworks are a bit too loud and bright, which triggers Lucile's Rötschreck. Her claws extend, her fangs pop out, and her eyes turn color as she stumbles onto the ground.
She tries her best to control it and it's not long before she returns to her normal state.
Eleanor, however, notices this, "It will be OK, Childe. I need you to be strong if we are to confront these creatures." She tries to sound brave and courageous, but she has her doubts. She, too, fears that they may meet their Final Death tonight.
But, she can't let her Childe see that.
Lucile asks, "Lemme drive, please?"
Eleanor says, "As you wish. I will guide you to their location. Be ready, my Childe. We will, in all likelihood, witness horrors and atrocities that we could never imagine even the most depraved of Kindred committing." She hands Lucile the keys.
They get in the car and the engine roars to life. The car's headlights illuminate the path ahead.
"So...uh, where to?"
"Drive. It is not too far from here."
"O-K!"
15 minutes pass as Eleanor tells her Childe, "We are nearly there. Make a turn and park here. Then, we walk."
Lucile does as instructed. The 2 get out and Eleanor looks around, "Their 'Haven' is not far from here. Be discreet. We might have some element of surprise, I suggest we keep it that way." The duo start walking through the area.
After a few minutes, Eleanor stops, "Be careful, Lucile. I sense something." Her body is tense.
Lucile takes care not to step on any twigs as she keeps up with Eleanor, "Sense what?"
Eleanor shakes her head, "I'm...not sure." The 2 keep moving and a cottage eventually comes into view.
It looks run-down, with weeds and vines covering much of the outside. A cluster of dead trees surround the structure, as if guarding it. A faint, sickly sweet scent hangs in the air. It smells of decay and death.
Eleanor motions for her Childe to be quiet.
Lucile whispers, "Are...are they in there?"
Just then, Lucile notices the absolute slaughter outside the cottage. Bodies of deformed Kindred (Nosferatu, most likely) litter the area, slowly decomposing with some already turned to ash.
Some are suspended upside down on the dead trees and others are just dismembered and slumped over, their bodies disfigured and mutilated (beyond the usual disfigurement one would expect to see on a Nosferatu's face and body).
A few are missing limbs and one has its misshapen head twisted all the way around, a look of horror on their face. Blood pools and congeals on the ground. Some are missing organs and others are simply torn to shreds.
Eleanor can only wonder what happened here. How could 2 Methuselahs possibly destroy this many Nosferatus in such a short period of time?
Sure, they weren't exactly elite Blood Hunters, but they were no novices either.
Questions come later, however.
As Eleanor and Lucile inch their way toward what looks like the front door, a figure comes flying out and lands on the ground. The duo scramble for cover. The figure is...not a Nosferatu. His face...quite normal, actually.
He has brown eyes, the 90s curtains hair style, and a well-groomed beard. He has quite a heavy build. His skin is pale, though not as pale other Kindred. He's dressed in a fine white suit with a red shirt underneath.
This must be the Toreador Sheriff leading the Blood Hunt. He doesn't look too great now.
His left eye is slashed and a good chunk of his face is almost falling off. His suit is anything but pristine as it's covered in the ashes and Vitae of fallen allies.
His breathing is erratic and he is desperately trying to get back up.
As he gets up, a large gash on his chest opens and closes rapidly. His wounds are mending, but will it mend fast enough?
A shrill laugh can be heard coming from the inside of the cottage. It sounds...unnatural and sinister. The Sheriff manages to get back up, but his right leg is still injured.
He grabs his enormous sword from off the ground and drags himself over to where the duo are hiding, using his sword for support.
His voice is hoarse and he sounds exhausted as he looks around, "My god! Wh--goodness, all gone. I need to...Prince Geoffrey...damn it!" He takes a few more steps forward and his grip on his sword loosens as he collapses.
His wounds are still healing. It will be some time before he fully recovers, assuming he recovers at all.
Lucile wants to approach him, but Eleanor shakes her head. She notices a figure slowly making its way towards the Sheriff.
Lucile screams, "B...BEHIND YOU!"
The Sheriff is startled and immediately swivels his head before turning around and getting back up on his feet. His injuries are still healing, somewhat. He brandishes his sword and his eyes are locked on the figure approaching him.
It's one of the Methuselahs!
"C'mon you bitch! I--I ain't scared of you!" His tone of voice betrays his total fear and apprehension.
She smiles as she slowly strides her way towards him.
Eleanor and Lucile, still hiding behind the shrubbery, struggle to get a better view of the Methuselah as she's being blocked by the Sheriff. They can only observe from a distance.
The Sheriff shouts, "COME ON!" He musters up some strength, grips his sword and rushes her. The Methuselah deftly dodges by twisting her torso and then her legs to the left.
The Sheriff tries to regain his footing, but the Methuselah lunges forward and drives her fist deep into his abdomen.
This knocks him back and sends him flying towards a nearby tree.
She laughs, but it is probably the most unsettling cackle either Eleanor or Lucile have ever heard. The Sheriff, his clothes torn and bloody, spits some blood and a couple of teeth on the ground and then staggers back up.
The Methuselah shakes her head, "Is...this what has be-come of Caine's des-cen-dants?"
She clicks her tongue in disgust (or disappointment, perhaps?).
Still having some fight left in him, the Sheriff screams as he rushes the Methuselah again, sword pointed towards her. She easily dodges and parries his attacks. The Sheriff's movements are getting slower and less coordinated as time passes.
She continues to parry and dodge his clumsy (and desperate) attacks. After a while, the Sheriff stops and is hunched over, his legs barely able to hold him up.
Lucile watches in horror and says, "We--we should do SOMETHING, Eleanor!"
Eleanor simply says, "I'm afraid there is nothing we can do for him right now."
The Methuselah woman looks in the general direction of where the duo are hiding. She narrows her eyes as her head unnaturally moves from side to side, "I...sense an-other."
She hisses and turns her attention to the Sheriff, who twirls his sword and strikes the Methuselah woman in the chest.
He is, of course, unable to penetrate her skin, but this causes her to stumble back a few steps. The Sheriff quickly follows up with another attack, this time striking her in the abdomen. By the time he's preparing to deliver another strike, the wound on her chest is nearly mended.
He goes for the head, but she easily dodges and slashes him in the face, causing him to fall to the ground.
The Sheriff, exhausted, pants and wheezes, his wounds still not completely mended.
The Methuselah, now bored with him, tilts her head to the side, "You...are a per-sis-tent one, are you not?" There's something about her accent that's off. Even her way of speaking is ominous.
The Sheriff, his breathing labored and his face full of pain, looks up at her and says, "Yeah, I..."
It's over. The man is exhausted beyond all measure. His Vitae is severely low. His Hunger rages within him.
He stabs the sword in the ground and stretches out his hands to either side, "Go on, creature. F--Finish it. I have failed my duty as Sheriff. The Prince is gone and the town is all yours. All I beg of you is that you to let the mortal townspeople go unharmed."
The Methuselah, her smile widening, walks toward him, "Sh-e-ri-ff." She pauses as she repeats that word a few times to herself and hisses. She's now right in front of the Toreador. He gulps as he knows what fate awaits him.
He then closes his eyes. He has made his peace, at least.
She leans down to him and caresses his cheek and plays with his blonde hair. He opens his eyes and stares directly at her. She's close enough for him to make out the details on her face, "Go--go on then, g...get it over with."
Her hand glides down his neck to his chest and then his abdomen. She growls as she feels him flinch under her touch.
He doesn't respond.
The Methuselah's expression shifts, "Tell me, Sh-e-ri-ff, why?"
He doesn't say anything.
She pouts and asks again, "Why? Why does Sh-e-ri-ff want to hurt us?"
She leans in closer to his face and their lips almost touch.
The Sheriff, his breathing now steadier and his wounds still not healed, stares at her with his brown eyes, "Be...because you are not supposed to...exist. Your kind were supposed to be wiped out long ago."
The Methuselah hisses, "Ah. But, why?"
"You are not natural."
She licks his cheek and he shivers.
"Even...you are not nat-ural, Sh-e-ri-ff."
Touché.
No response from the big guy.
The Methuselah woman laughs unnaturally, "We...are same, are we...not, Sh-e-ri-ff?"
"I am nothing like you, whore!"
Unfazed by this, she clicks her tongue and licks the Sheriff on the forehead, causing him to wince.
She whispers, "Lies. Lies."
She licks his chin, his neck, and his collar bone, each time eliciting a grunt of disgust from the Sheriff.
The Methuselah places her hands around the Sheriff's neck and begins squeezing. She increases the pressure and lifts him off the ground, hissing and shrieking as she does so. The Sheriff kicks and gasps as she tightens her death grip around his neck.
The Sheriff's legs still wiggle and he manages to swiftly kick her right in the crotch, causing her to drop him.
The thud causes a cloud of dust to rise from the ground and Lucile reflexively turns her head. It's too much to bear for the Fledgling.
The Sheriff, his voice hoarse and broken, coughs, "S...sc--screw you!"
As he's getting up, the Methuselah gives the Sheriff a backhand slap, knocking him down again. He hits the ground with a thud, causing some of the grass to turn a little brown and wither. He's stunned.
She pins the Sheriff to the ground and gets on him. Her breath is rancid and she bares her fangs. Her claws slowly stick out, revealing nails that are dark black and chitinous in nature.
Her eyes turn a dark shade of crimson and her aberrant canine teeth extend as she places her hands on the Sheriff's head. Her sharp claws dig deep into his eyes, which causes him to scream in pain and terror.
Lucile gasps and covers her eyes, while Eleanor keenly watches, trying to find any weakness that can be exploited because she knows a confrontation is inevitable.
"Aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaah!" He tries to scream and thrash, but it's no use. The Methuselah's grip on him is too strong. The Sheriff's eyes turn into bloody pus and then burst wide open. Exerting herself, the Methuselah rips open his head, her nails digging deep into his brain.
She laughs maniacally and digs deeper until she rips out a good chunk of brain matter, followed by another.
The Sheriff's body convulses, spasms, and convulses one final time as his body finally goes limp. With the gray matter of the Sheriff leaking down her hands, the Methuselah looks up into the sky and screeches in victory.
Eleanor and Lucile are too shocked to speak.
Eleanor is speechless, while Lucile is...crying. This is no longer a hunt for Methuselahs.
This is the end.
Lucile, voice trembling as tears of blood roll down her face, yells at Eleanor, "W--We gotta GET the fuck outta here. I--I can't, Eleanor. I CAN'T!" Her voice is laced with fear and despair. She shakes as she wipes some of the blood off her face.
Eleanor's voice is firm, yet fearful, "Do not worry, Childe. We will try our best. She already looks quite worn down. I believe she will be in no shape to fight us." She takes a quick glance at the Methuselah, who has just tossed the Sheriff's mushy head to the side like it was a toy.
"B--But there's TWO of them, Eleanor..."
Eleanor sighs, "I know, Lucile. I know. One problem at a time."
Eleanor's attention is drawn to a very thick tree branch. She points it out to Lucile, "We can perhaps fashion a stake out of that branch and use it against the Methuselahs."
"Uh..." Lucile isn't entirely confident in that plan and who can blame her?
Eleanor continues, "One of us will need to distract the Methuselahs while the other sneaks up within...striking distance. Then, we strike."
Lucile's trembling hands slowly become fists, "I--I'll be the distraction. Oh god..." Panic sets in. Tears of blood stream down her face and her otherwise unliving heart starts to act up. Her vision starts to blur and it becomes harder for her to focus.
She can't even form a proper thought.
Eleanor tries her best to comfort her Childe, "I know you can do it, Lucile. It's the only way. It is now or never."
Lucile nervously nods. She takes a deep breath, emerges from her cover, and yells, "HEY! YOU!"
The Methuselah woman's head jerks to the direction of the sound. She hisses and her chitinous claws extend all the way out and she growls as she slowly turns around to face Lucile.
The Fledgling Usurper continues to shout, "OVER HERE!"
Lucile continues to yell and Eleanor takes the opportunity to sneak her way around the Methuselah, taking care not to step on any twigs or other noise traps that nature might have thrown her way.
She tightly grips her improvised stake as she deftly makes her way around.
The Methuselah doesn't even notice the Sheriff's decomposing head roll down to her feet, for she is too transfixed on Lucile. The woman is now just a few steps away from Lucile.
Without warning, she lunges towards Lucile in a violent flash of claws, fangs, and darkness. Her eyes glow a bright shade of crimson.
Lucile dives to the side, narrowly avoiding being clawed by the Methuselah. As she lands on the ground, she takes the opportunity to toss a handful of dirt into the Methuselah's face. What good that'll do, who knows.
But, you do weird things when you're panicked.
Eleanor takes a deep breath and prepares to close the gap between her and the Methuselah woman. Just as the breath exits her nostrils, another figure emerges from the cottage.
Lovely.
A man walks out. He looks quite...clean with his bomber jacket and a head of scruffy black hair that's thinning at the front.
His face is unremarkable by all accounts- very average looking. His eyes are dark and foreboding. His hands are in his pockets, almost as if he's unarmed and doesn't want to be seen as a threat. His stature is a bit on the shorter side.
He is the other Methuselah.
He has his hands in his jacket pockets and his mouth is a straight line. He appears to be humming to himself.
Eleanor slowly turns her head to look at this man. She can't really see his eyes, but she can sense that something is off about him. It's a familiar feeling. She gulps and freezes up. Her breath is now a bit shaky and her grip on the makeshift stake is looser.
"What ha-ve we he-re?"
His thin lips curl into something resembling a wicked smile, "Vis-it-or," he exclaims as he struggles on certain syllables. He starts walking towards Eleanor.
She can't move. She's stuck between a rock and hard place. The man is coming from the side and the woman is attacking Lucile, who is desperately tossing dirt, dodging, and cursing her way through the chaos.
Eleanor, without hesitation, lunges at the smirking Methuselah man and stabs him right in the chest with the stake. The stake goes all the way in as the man gasps, his breath acidic and his eyes bloodshot.
His grin widens, revealing a set of chitinous fangs that are unlike any other.
The man's look of momentary shock and horror is turned into a look of maniacal glee as he slowly starts to laugh. Eleanor is paralyzed with shock. His laughter is also more than enough to paralyze her.
The man puts his hand over the stake and brushes Eleanor's hands off of it.
With some effort, he pulls the stake out of his chest and screeches while doing so. The pain is excruciating (or not). His eyes turn bloodshot and red as his wounds quickly start to mend at an extraordinary rate.
Eleanor, meanwhile, is still frozen in fear.
Her fear only increases as she watches him lick the blood off the stake and laugh some more.
He simply groans and shakes his head at this desperate attempt, "Wood fr-om tr-ee no go-od. Tch." He throws the crude implement on the ground.
Just then, Lucile tumbles towards Eleanor's feet and struggles as she sits down on the ground. She gasps and shudders.
The man slowly turns to face the duo and he starts to laugh, "Ah, 2 of you! How de-light-ful!"
The Methuselah woman jumps and crouch-lands next to the man. She hisses and says, "More co-me to hurt us! Grrrrrrrr!"
Lucile looks pretty awful, she's bleeding from her mouth and her sleeves have been torn off.
The Methuselah woman, still hissing and growling, runs at the duo, but is stopped by her partner who has had enough of this and decides to hold her back, "St-op!"
He holds her in an embrace and gently plays with her hair. Now that she's under some light, Eleanor and Lucile get a better look at the Methuselah woman.
She's slender, almost lanky and taller than the man. Her hair is jet black and flows down to her mid-back, though it's quite tangled and dirty. Her face is long and her eyes a shade of dull gray. She's dressed in a similar-looking bomber jacket.
She hisses at the man who growls in return. In the midst of the carnage around them, they hungrily kiss each other and exchange some words in an unknown language.
Lucile grimaces at this...unusual scene. Eleanor reacts the same way.
The man pushes the woman's hair to the side, revealing her neck and says, "Hung-ry."
She responds by putting her hand on the back of his head and leading it to her neck.
The man begins to growl as his fangs come out and the woman moans in pleasure as a smile comes across her face. After a while of "feeding" from his partner, the man gently pushes her away.
With black-ish Vitae dripping down his chin, he turns his attention back to the 2 women, his fangs retracted. He smiles and walks towards them, the woman following closely behind, hissing as she does so.
Eleanor noticed he dropped the wooden stake close by. She gives it one quick glance and dives forward to grab the stake. She immediately jumps back and positions herself behind Lucile, ready to strike.
The Methuselahs stop in their tracks and glare at the 2.
The man chuckles as he points to the duo and speaks in an unknown language. Both Eleanor and Lucile furrow their brows as they genuinely cannot understand what he's saying.
The woman simply laughs as she extends her claws, growling in response to the man's words.
He shakes his head and says, "Come." He then stretches out his hands, as if inviting Eleanor to try again. The Methuselah woman, meanwhile, stands behind him, running her fingers through his hair and smiling.
Lucile and Eleanor remain silent as they both ponder their next move. Eleanor, having no other ideas, takes a quick look at Lucile. The young Fledgling looks back at her mentor and they nod at each other.
Lucile gulps and says, "Uh...fuck you! And fuck your weird girlfriend over there!"
Lucile gets up and Eleanor takes her by the hand. They rush towards the duo in an attempt to create some distance and time.
The man narrows his eyes and repeats to himself, "Fu-ck?"
Lucile kicks the man to the side while Eleanor grunts and drives the stake straight through the Methuselah woman's sternum. She screams as the stake impales her.
The man, his claws extended and eyes ablaze with anger, immediately grabs Lucile's leg and twists it violently, causing her to scream in pain.
Eleanor, gripping the stake, gasps and struggles to pull the Methuselah off of the stake, but she is not strong enough. The woman slashes Eleanor's face and pulls the stake out, which makes a sucking sound as she does so. The Elder Tremere falls on the ground.
The man lets go of Lucile's twisted leg and stands in front of her, protecting his partner. He extends his claws and snarls.
"Filth," he simply says as he brings down his claws at Lucile.
Eleanor screams, "NO!"
Lucile gasps as the man's claws come close to slashing a good chunk of her face off.
The Methuselah man's head tilts as he asks, "No?"
The Methuselah woman is fully recovered. She picks up the stake and walks over to Eleanor. Still clutching it in her hand, she growls as she stabs Eleanor right in the chest, which elicits a grunt of agony from the woman. Followed by a gasp.
Lucile screams out, "NOOOOOOOO!"
The man proceeds to stroke Lucile's cheek and smile at her in a menacing way. She spits on his face and he wipes the spit off his cheek.
He responds by slapping her.
He gets on top of her and starts to wrap his hands around her neck, slowly tightening the grip. He growls at her. The Methuselah woman pulls him off her and whispers to him in an unknown language.
A smile comes across his face, "Ah."
He takes Lucile by the hand and drags her in to the cottage, while the woman puts Eleanor on her shoulder and follows him inside. After they are gone, a cloud of dust rises from the ground and the stench of blood and decaying flesh lingers.
It is a smell that won't be going away anytime soon.
The man pushes Lucile to a corner and viciously growls at her, as if commanding her to stay put. Lucile is too traumatized to do anything, so she just curls up in the corner of the room, crying tears of blood.
The Methuselah woman places Eleanor in another corner and simply shakes her head as she walks away. She then walks back to the man and kisses him, but he doesn't respond.
Instead, he looks over at the corner and stares at Lucile. He's lost in thought. The Methuselah woman, seemingly annoyed, growls.
They go to another room to speak to each other (or do something else entirely).
Lucile takes a look around- this room is an absolute nightmare. Crumbling walls, blood splattered everywhere, mounds of ash scattered all over the floor.
There's a giant, gaping hole on one of the walls, revealing a large, dark, starry sky. There are some corpses here, but they have been destroyed beyond recognition.
A few unusual tomes and scrolls litter a portion of the room.
Lucile crawls over to grab one of the tomes. The book has splotches of blood on it and its contents are in no language that she can understand.
Still curious, she flips through the page as her hands won't stop shivering.
She's still trying to make sense of all this. Why are the Methuselahs even here? What could they possibly want? And why now?
Is it Gehenna? Or a precursor of things to come? Is the Methuselahs' reawakening a harbinger of the end?
She has no answers. All she knows is that she is gonna meet Final Death.
Or meet a fate worse than that at the hands of these Methuselahs.
As she continues to flip through the pages, she suddenly drops the book and yelps. That's when the woman comes in and notices the book, then her. She smiles wickedly at the sight of the young woman.
Lucile, still sitting in the corner, trembles in fear and cries as the Methuselah woman approaches her.
The Methuselah woman picks up the book, opens it, and whispers a few passages to herself.
She looks down at Lucile and smiles, "You do not un-der-st-and this." She tilts her head as if to gauge Lucile's response but all she gets in return are whimpers as Lucile covers her head with her hands and curls into a ball.
The Methuselah woman walks away, the book under her arm.
The man walks in. He notices the stake protruding out of Eleanor and simply growls.
He holds his partner's hand as they stare into each others' cold, dead eyes.
She gently kisses his cheek. Just then, the sound of fireworks can be heard in the distance. This triggers Lucile's Rötschreck as she whimpers and looks over at her Sire, who's slumped in the corner, staked. She wants to go over and remove that damn piece of wood, but then what?
Lucile is paralyzed with fear and uncertainty.
The Methuselah couple, hand-in-hand, start to dance. They hum to one another as they twirl and sway. There is a certain...grace to their moves.
Lucile is disgusted by this. How can they do this? Lucile screams and yells, but the Methuselahs don't turn around or seem too bothered.
The man twirls the woman around and around. The woman giggles and playfully bites the man's neck, then his lips. She giggles again as they continue to dance.
After a while, the man pulls the woman in for a kiss. The man moans as his tongue explores the woman's mouth. His claws extend and he holds her tightly as they continue to exchange kisses.
Lucile can only stare in disgust and disbelief.
Without asking, his fangs are already out and he bites the woman's neck. She grunts and sighs. The man begins to drink the blood. Lucile closes her eyes. The sound of the couple kissing and moaning fills the room.
It is a disturbing, yet strangely mesmerizing sight.
The woman gently pushes him away after some time. Now she bares her fangs and pushes her lover's head to the side, exposing his neck. She laughs and begins to drink.
The man's body stiffens as his partner feeds from him. He moans and his hands make his way down the woman's back. Her claws extend as she presses her body against the man's.
She laughs as she continues to drink. He pants and groans, his eyes ablaze with fury and passion in equal measures.
After a while, the woman gently withdraws as thick, rancid Vitae drips down her chin and a smile comes across her face. She kisses him and whispers something in his ear.
He nods and turns to Lucile, Vitae dripping from his fangs. As he starts to approach her, a very loud sound is heard outside.
The roar of a wide-open throttle reverberates throughout the entire room, followed by the sound of a powerful engine gunning it. The Methuselah pair immediately cease what they are doing and look at each other.
It sounds like a motorcycle has arrived.
The pair hiss and grunt as they go outside to investigate. Lucile shivers as she takes a peek outside. What (or who) she sees next genuinely surprises her.
There, revving the engine, is none other than Theodore.
B...But how?
His face is pale and his jaw is clenched tight. He revs the engine a few more times before turning the ignition and getting off the motorcycle.
The Methuselahs, now outside, stare at this quaint little old man. They look more curious than surprised. The woman stands there and hisses at him.
Time itself seems to come to a crawl. Theodore breathes in and out. He takes a knife hanging from his belt, cuts deep into his palms and places the knife back in his belt. A red cloud of dust appears and he speaks in an ancient language.
Lucile gasps and watches intently, while the Methuselahs stare in confusion.
Tendrils of pure Vitae start to emerge from these cuts in his palms. He continues chanting as the tendrils grow longer and sway around much faster.
Theodore's eyes glow red as he stretches out his hands towards the Methuselahs and they flinch.
He switches to chanting in yet another language. Lucile, still shaken and traumatized, tries her best to make sense of all this.
The Methuselahs, though initially confused, narrow their eyes and hiss at him. With a sense of overconfidence, they lunge at him from either side.
Tendrils of pure Vitae come forth from Theodore's palms, snapping in the air like whips. They are much stronger and longer than when he started. He also seems to have a lot more control over these.
The Methuselahs screech as the tendrils lash at them. The tendrils wrap around their limbs and neck, holding them down.
Theodore grunts as he pulls the tendrils taut and then tightens the grip around their entire upper bodies. He chants and grunts as he deftly twists and turns the tendrils around the Methuselahs.
They shriek in pain as they try their best to free themselves, but to no avail.
Lucile's eyes lighten up, but she doesn't want to get her hopes up too early. She licks her lips in anticipation of what comes next.
Theodore, with one quick motion, twists his wrists and snaps his tendrils back. Spikes emerge from the tendrils which cause the Methuselahs to slump on the ground, motionless.
The tendrils, with a life of their own, now cover their bodies like a net as they expand and contract. The Methuselahs' screams fill the night but fade to silence as they are engulfed and crushed by this unrelenting net of flesh and Vitae.
Theodore lets go and the tendrils coil and tangle themselves up before settling down. His gaze falls on Lucile. He looks...even more lifeless than usual, which isn't too different to how he looked when they first met.
Lucile gasps and quickly runs down to meet him. She's shaking- partially with fear, partially with excitement. She can hardly contain herself.
Theodore, though, just stares at her as if she doesn't even exist.
She stops in her tracks. After a few seconds, Theodore stumbles to the ground.
Lucile quickly rushes over to him but she stammers as she says, "T--Th--Thank you, t--thank you! W--we thought we were go...gonna be destroyed. Oh...my...god." She pants as her excitement subsides.
She now notices that Theodore is VERY pale.
Theodore doesn't respond but simply smiles at her instead. He grips both her shoulders as he struggles to stand up, using her for support. His smile fades as he looks to the Methuselahs, who are being suffocated by the tendrils. He grimaces.
Lucile notices and says, "It--It's over??! Are...are they gone?"
Theodore pensively shakes his head, "I'm afraid not, young one. They are nigh impossible to destroy. I have merely...sent them into a 'Torpor' of sorts. It will have to do, until...something more viable can be found."
Lucile gulps and her eyes dart towards Eleanor, still in the cottage.
"O...OK. B--But we have to save Eleanor. She's still in there!"
Theodore sighs and requests, "We will. But, first, please retrieve my satchel. The Hunger is greater than I anticipated."
Lucile blinks a few times, "Uh...sure."
Theodore sighs once more and Lucile nods her head. She goes to fetch Theodore's satchel, which has been left untouched on the motorcycle's handle.
As she walks to get it, she takes a few deep breaths. She is still shaken up by all of this. It doesn't help that her hands won't stop trembling and her knees feel like they are going to give out on her any moment.
Theodore grabs the satchel and hastily searches through it. He pulls out 2 vials of blood, one for each hand, and unstoppers them. After that, he slowly staggers inside the cottage.
He gulps each vial down in rapid succession and the blood slides down his throat like an oily substance.
He winces at this and leans against the wall.
He coughs and sputters, then continues to cough some more. He finally steadies himself and says, "We must bury those Methuselahs and we will need to do so quickly."
But first, he approaches Eleanor and grabs her by the shoulder, then pulls the stake out. She moans in pain and wheezes, her face a sight to behold. She's torn and bruised. As the stake comes out, her wound slowly starts to mend.
Lucile, meanwhile, tries to look for a shovel, but there's none. She simply kicks the ground and begins digging with her bare hands. Theodore joins in, as does Eleanor, with much difficulty.
It's difficult work for everyone involved, but it is necessary nonetheless.
Lucile angrily asks, "Why can't we just burn the fuckers?!"
Theodore shakes his head, "I'm afraid it is not as simple as that, young one."
He goes on to explain, "Even if we do burn them, their spirits would not rest. They are tied to their bodies, or perhaps it is more accurate to say that their spirits are the chains that bind their bodies. It's all terribly complex, I'm afraid."
A mound of dirt in his hand, Theodore continues, "Besides, the bodies that you see before you might not even be their own." His voice is strained and his breath ragged as he digs.
Eleanor says, "Such terrible business."
Theodore nods, "Yes, exactly." He pauses as he struggles to throw more dirt onto the side.
Lucile grunts and groans as she digs, eager and desperate to bury these Methuselahs and put this whole...ordeal behind her.
Lucile continues, "So, what's gonna happen to them?" Her voice is shaky.
Theodore grunts as he shovels some more, "You are already aware of the dangers posed by the Methuselahs."
He beckons all around to make his point and continues, "Death and destruction follow wherever they go. They are...unpredictable. They are bloodthirsty and it is likely that they will cause much havoc."
He spits out some black substance from the back of his throat and quickly wipes it with a handkerchief, "Which is why they must be...contained. And it is a tedious task. But, it is necessary if we wish for the future of our Clan to be a better one."
Lucile scowls as she notices that black substance dripping down the corner of Theodore's mouth. She looks him and asks, "Ewww! What is that?! Ugh, I thought I saw enough nasty for one night."
Theodore wipes off some of that substance and evasively responds, "P--Please. J--Just continue digging." He avoids eye contact and resumes digging.
After some time, they have dug enough holes to bury the 2 Methuselahs. They carefully place the tendril-covered bodies in each respective hole. It is quite a bit of work.
Eleanor looks at the ground, relieved, but still uncertain. She asks, "Surely this cannot be the way to contain such powerful creatures?"
Theodore responds, "It is the best we have. For now, at least. We were caught off guard by all this, unfortunately. The Blood Hunt failed and our preventive measures were not adequate."
Lucile chimes in, "This...all seems so wrong. Are you sure your...uh...whatever those things are will hold 'em down forever?"
Theodore replies, "I understand your reservations, Fledgling. Hmmmm, perhaps Eleanor and I could cast a few Blood spells to bind them to these bodies. That would make things easier, but we still wouldn't be certain. It may not last and that is something I simply cannot say." He takes a quick look at Eleanor, who nods in agreement.
Lucile stretches and dusts her hands off. She takes a look around, "Well, they're all buried. So, what now?"
Eleanor nods and coldly says, "The Prince of this town has much to answer for."
Theodore chuckles, "Doubtful. His...approach to leadership has always been rather cavalier. Even then, I doubt he was given enough time to put together any sort of contingency plan for a scenario such as this."
Lucile raises her brow, "You mean he didn't know about the Methuselahs?!"
"There is a lot he knows about, but he chooses to simply look the other way. It is unfortunate. But, alas, what else does one expect from the Aesthetes?"
Theodore looks down and thinks to himself. He continues, "We have done what we could to contain the problem, but don't expect any further answers. You are still a Fledgling. You do not know of the inner workings of Kindred Society. Perhaps your Sire still has much to teach you."
Eleanor gently nods, "Indeed. She...has been quite the challenging pupil."
"Yes, but she is gifted in ways you are not."
Lucile's eyes widen, "R--Really? Y...you think I'm...'gifted'?"
Theodore gently pats her shoulder, "Yes. But, we must first decide what Discipline you wish to specialize in, yes?"
Lucile gulps, "Um...yes. I--I...tried Dominate, but that didn't work out too well. I was thinking maybe--"
Eleanor shakes her head and sighs, "I do not know why she gives me such a hard time..."
Theodore interjects, "Hmmmm. Might I make a suggestion, Lucile?"
"Uh, sure."
"I suggest you specialize in the Discipline of Blood Sorcery otherwise known as Thaumaturgy. There are plenty of beginner Blood Spells and Incantations that can be learned in mere hours and used in combat, as well as various other useful applications, which I believe you will find quite beneficial."
"R...Really? Sure, I guess. But, that requires a lotta focus and willpower and I don't really have a Haven of my own to well, y'know--"
Theodore nods, "Yes, but have you considered this cottage? It is...dilapidated at the moment, but with some renovations, it could be quite the Haven indeed."
Lucile looks over to the cottage and then back at Eleanor, "Wha--no--but...what about all of this?!" She beckons to everything that just transpired, which has not fully sunken in yet.
Theodore pauses and then says, "Hmmmmm."
He thinks for a moment and replies, "It would be traumatizing, yes, but the serenity and seclusion of this place would prove most advantageous, as you would be able to cast tame Blood Spells with utter focus and complete control over the environment. Though it would not be as efficient, we could always cast extra spells of protection around the 'grave' of the Methuselahs."
Eleanor remains silent, deep in thought.
Theodore looks at her and asks, "She is still your Childe, Eleanor, but she has shown promise. The path that she walks is up to her to choose and if she wishes to follow in the footsteps of her Sire, then so be it."
Eleanor does not respond. After a while she sighs and says, "It will ultimately be her choice. I personally would not want to stay in this...damned place, BUT, I will not hold it against you if you decide to make this cottage your Haven, Childe."
Lucile shrugs her shoulders, "Alright, well, uh, I guess I'm not gonna find a place like this ever again. Maybe the silence would help me focus. Y'know? And I could work on some spells and stuff. This sounds so...calm compared to the Chantries in the cities. Sheesh!"
Eleanor walks up to her Childe and strokes her hair, "I understand. You do what you think is best. I will simply be there to assist you."
Lucile nods, "Great. Well, uh, I think I'm gonna try and clear this place out a bit more, make it less creepy and more like my Haven."
She smiles, "Wow. This night has been a wild ride. I feel so...exposed and vulnerable, and yet also powerful at the same time."
Theodore smiles, "Then, channel that power, young one."
Lucile looks him in the eyes and says, "I wanna be powerful, just like you. I...wanna have cool blood stuff comin' outta my palms. Just like you. I--I...no, we owe you one, Theodore."
He smiles and shakes his head, "This...power that I wield came at a great cost. A sacrifice had to be made." He sighs deeply, as a look of subtle regret comes across his face.
Lucile tilts her head and asks, "Um, what do you mean?"
Theodore smiles and gently shakes his head, "I...do not wish to speak of this. But, I have no doubt that you will one night become a formidable Blood Sorceress. But, for now, you must first learn to harness the power that has been bestowed upon you."
"Oh, that's OK, I think I understand. I guess you're just as powerful as you say you are. Hmmm."
She takes a quick glance at the graves.
After a while, she continues, "Anyway, I'll need a lotta help getting this place to resemble something...livable."
Eleanor adds, "There is also the question of any previous owners of this property. We do not want any trouble in the future."
"Yeah! Good point."
She looks over the entrance to the cottage. The floor has a lot of cracks and is in a generally poor condition, but it can still work.
And it did.
Back to the present...
Maya looks at Lucile, jaw nearly dropping to the ground.
Lucile is as calm as can be. She's telling the story as if it were yesterday and not many years ago.
Lucile continues, "Anyway, yep, that's how I became a Blood Sorceress. Or a Blood Thaumaturgist. I was so excited to learn the new spells, wards, incantations, rituals, and stuff."
Maya chuckles, "Wow, that's so cool!"
She then says, "I'm...I'm just glad you survived, Lucile. It must've been so traumatic, but I'm glad you lived and learned. And I'm so sorry you had to experience all this."
Lucile's expression changes as she nods and smiles, "Yeah, I still get scared sometimes, but talking about it was oddly...cathartic." She shrugs, "Y'know, in a weird way."
Maya nods and looks around. She sighs, "So, what happened after that?"
Lucile rubs her chin, "Well, I kinda just dug in for the next few years and started focusing on learning the deeper secrets of the Blood. My molecular biochem degree kinda helped in more ways than one, actually! Heh."
"Wow!"
"Yeah, and with some work and the right connections, I got to specialize in nearly every facet of Blood Magic."
"Whoa!"
Lucile strokes Maya's cheek and whispers into her ear, "Maybe one night, I can show you a thing or two."
Maya blushes. Lucile grins. They just spend the next few seconds staring into each other's eyes.
Maya takes a deep breath and asks, "So...uh, what do you wanna do now? You...still gotta show me around our new place."
Lucile takes Maya's hands in hers and says, "C'mon, let's go, sweetie." She smiles as she places a hand on Maya's cheek.
Maya's eyes light up, "Let's!"
She interrupts, "But, wait! What about my training and stuff?"
Lucile kisses Maya on the forehead, "There's always tomorrow night, my poinsettia. There's always tomorrow night. Besides, I wanna spend every single waking second with you before, well...y'know."
Maya blinks a few times, "Oh. Well, OK then. I'm sure Eleanor won't mind, right?"
Lucile laughs as she walks out, "Eh, she'll understand."
Maya chuckles as she follows Lucile downstairs to the basement.
Lucile opens the door and a blast of cold air hits Maya right in the face.
As Maya enters the basement, she notices the dim lighting. The walls are painted a dark purple and there's a soft, ambient music playing in the background. The ceiling is low, but not uncomfortably so.
As her eyes adjust, she sees a double bed in the corner. It looks very comfortable, with pillows and blankets galore. There are also neon lights on the wall, which create a relaxing atmosphere.
Lucile chuckles, "So, what do you think? Pretty sweet, huh?"
Maya gasps, "Uh, yeah! This looks great! One thing for sure, it's better than my place! And you've seen my place, heh."
Lucile nods, "Yep. We should definitely put our feet up, right?"
"Yeah, absolutely."
"Good. Oh, and hey, I...just wanna say, I'm glad you're taking all this well. It can't be easy. After your Embrace and all that."
Maya gulps and her eyes go wide, "Wait, are you serious?! I mean, I'm not upset or anything. It's all kinda...cool. Well, except for all the uncool stuff about Kindred."
Lucile says, "OH! Shoot! Damn it! I almost forgot about your vial! Lemme go and grab the last one. Be right back, sweetie. Feel free to have a look around. It's our room now." She winks at Maya as she heads back upstairs to the kitchen.
Maya looks around and explores the room. There are a few posters on the wall, mostly of bands and other assorted media. A large dresser rests near the bed and it's filled with all sorts of stuff like makeup, CDs, books, and a few random knick-knacks.
There's also 2 small nightstands on either side of the bed.
One of them has a small lamp and a digital clock on it. The other one has a few more books and some pieces of paper scattered about and held down by a stack of pens and pencils.
There's also a small desk in the corner of the room with a lamp and an office chair. On top of the desk is a laptop and a few more books. There's also a small radio, but it doesn't seem to be working. Maya shrugs.
Maya goes back to the bed and plops herself onto the mattress- it's quite soft and fluffy, unlike the one at her apartment. She sighs and sinks into the fluffy pillow as she gets herself comfortable. It's been a long night and she can't wait to get some rest.
She feels the room spinning as she slowly drifts off into deep thought.
Just as she closes her eyes, she hears footsteps approaching from outside. She knows who it is. Instead, she decides to let her mind wander. Just then, Lucile enters the room with half a vial of blood in her hand.
"OK, sweetie. This should be your last vial for tonight. Then, we can finally spend some...quality time together." She hands it to Maya, who grabs it eagerly. Lucile sits on the bed next to Maya.
She gives Maya a quick kiss on the cheek. Maya blushes and smiles as she gulps down the meager amount of blood left in that vial.
As she swallows, she leans against Lucile. They simply spend the next few minutes in silence as they stare at each other.
Maya runs a finger down Lucile's back and says, "Wow, you got a really nice and cozy room. This is all so...nice."
She pauses for a second and hints, "Hey, uh, so...um, you wanna...y'know."
Lucile chuckles and giggles, "You've really gotten quite horny since your Embrace, huh? Well, I guess that's how it usually goes. Hmmm, let's see what we can do, sweetie." She smiles as she places a hand on Maya's cheek.
Maya just sighs and giggles, intently staring at Lucile's body.
Lucile continues, "Oh, I almost forgot. I...found those books Eleanor told me about. They were in the living room, heh. There's probably a few bits about Auspex in them too, so that might come in handy. Also, I found another one and it's a must-read for any Tremere. It's called: 'The Travels of Fedoso'. I read the abridged version decades ago, but the full text is something else entirely."
Lucile leans in closer to Maya, "There's SO MUCH more that I wanna share with you, but we've got time for all that later. Oh, and I have some books on Blood Magic and Thaumaturgy too, if you're interested, that is."
Maya can feel something exciting stirring within her as she replies, "Oh, yeah, I still gotta read that Auspex book Eleanor gave me. Should we really be doing...this now?" She gulps as she feels a tingling sensation in her crotch. Her breathing intensifies.
She looks at Lucile with hungry eyes and asks, "I--I mean, Eleanor won't mind, right? It's like you said: 'we've got time for all that later.'"
"We do, sweetie, we do. Eh, Eleanor won't be too bothered by it. I know this is the first time you're, y'know...'doing the deed' as a Kindred and all. And I don't want to overwhelm you, but...heh." Lucile chuckles, "It's gonna be an adventure, that's for sure."
Maya giggles and smiles as she places a hand on Lucile's cheek, "I hope it's a wild adventure."
Lucile seductively whispers and licks her lips, "A wild one. Capital-W, my poinsettia." She kisses Maya on the cheek and gently holds Maya's head in her hands. "Let's do it, sweetie. We can always complete your training another night. Let's just enjoy tonight."
Maya nods eagerly.
Lucile's eyes narrow as she gets herself comfortable on the bed. She runs a hand down Maya's side, letting her fingers linger over Maya's curves. She moves her hand up and down Maya's stomach. She sighs, "Mmmmm."
She continues, "There's so much to show you and I wanna show you everything."
Lucile turns over, "Oh, wait. I got a...little surprise for you." She opens the drawer on the nightstand and pulls out a box, "Here, lemme show you."
She opens it and inside there's a small metallic-green colored vibrator with various buttons. She turns it on and the device softly buzzes. "Heh, you can use this with me or by yourself. It's ours now."
Maya blushes as Lucile continues, "So, you wanna go first or should I?"
Maya chuckles, "I'll go first."
Lucile nods as she begins to undo Maya's pants, "Good." Lucile bites her lip as she unzips Maya's pants and slides them off, "I'll go nice and slow. Let's get you get used to this."
She slowly rubs Maya's inner thighs as she moves her hands up towards her crotch.
Maya places her hand on Lucile's wrist and shyly asks, "So, this is how you...kept yourself 'busy'?"
Lucile chuckles, "Ah, yes. Well...things were different back then. Finding...someone wasn't always easy for me. Doubly so if they were Kindred."
She shrugs and continues, "But, yeah, this was one of the ways I would. It's quite handy."
Maya can't help herself and she asks, "W--Was there anyone else before me? Not that I'm jealous or anything. I'm...just curious is all. I...uh, hope you don't mind me asking such a personal question."
Lucile simply laughs, "No, no. Don't worry, sweetie. Besides, you yourself said there shouldn't be any secrets between us. There was...this one time. A long, long time ago. But, it kinda got messy."
She sighs and says, "Ah, but we have all the time in the world now."
Lucile proceeds to slide Maya's panties off, which are already getting moist.
Lucile gets on top of Maya, who is laying down on the bed.
Maya looks up at Lucile and asks, "Messy? D--Did they hurt you or anything?" A look of genuine concern crosses her face. She can feel something stirring deep within her, but she's not sure what it is.
She's still not entirely used to these emotions, being a freshly-Embraced Kindred and all.
Lucile sighs and says, "Well, she was a Malkavian. And a sex worker. We really hit it off at first. But, well...like I said, it got messy. Turns out she had some...major issues. She was also on the run from the Camarilla, which didn't help matters."
She pauses and takes a deep breath, "Look, we were havin' a great time, and well, outta nowhere, when we were making out, she stuck her fangs deep in me. She was tryin' to Diablerize me! Luckily, I was able to fight her off with a few quick Blood Spells, but she booked it out a freakin' window and I haven't seen her since."
Maya gulps and her eyes widen, "Whoa! That's--that's terrible. I'm so sorry, Lucile. I...had no idea. Wow."
Lucile nods and smiles, "It's OK. I'm over it. Besides, I've got you now, and that's all that matters, sweetie."
She leans forward and kisses Maya on the lips. She then kisses her on the forehead, then the cheeks, then on the neck, then on the chin and then finally on the lips again. She starts to lick and suck on Maya's lips as she moves her hands up and down Maya's body.
Maya simply closes her eyes as she lets out a soft moan.
With the vibrator still buzzing, Lucile gently slides it down to Maya's crotch and slowly begins to rub it in circular motions. Maya squirms as she feels a familiar sensation rising.
Lucile whispers, "Heh, you're a little more sensitive than I thought."
She moves her hand up and down Maya's inner thighs, stopping just before she reaches Maya's crotch.
She moves the vibrator back up towards Maya's stomach. She slides it all the way towards Maya's nipples, which are already quite stiff.
Lucile chuckles and then places a finger in Maya's mouth. She takes it out and gently begins to trace circles around Maya's nipple.
She leans forward and begins to lick and suck on Maya's nipples, making sure to wrap her lips around them.
Maya's eyes widen as she feels an unfamiliar feeling in her nether regions. She feels her legs growing weak, but Lucile holds her firmly in place. Maya lets out a moan as her muscles begin to relax.
Lucile moans and bites her lip, "Damn, you're hot." She puts the vibrator between Maya's legs and continues to rub it up and down. She slides it up and down Maya's inner thigh.
"Lu...Lucile, I--I want you," Maya whines.
Lucile whispers in Maya's ear, "I know, sweetie, I know."
Lucile moves the vibrator up towards Maya's clit. She rubs it back and forth, gently at first, but then with more intensity.
Maya pulls Lucile down for a kiss and wraps her legs around Lucile's waist, their mouths interlocking and tongues dancing as they continue their passionate make out.
The vibrator, meanwhile, is just buzzing near Maya's clit, making her whimper and squirm as the pleasure overwhelms her.
Lucile continues kissing Maya as she wraps her arms around Maya's head and pulls her closer. She whispers in Maya's ear, "You're the only one for me, my poinsettia."
Maya pants, "Y...You're my poinsettia, too. I--I love you."
Lucile licks Maya's lips and whispers, "I love you, too."
She begins to kiss Maya's neck and moves her hand down towards Maya's breasts. She gently begins to squeeze them as she continues to rub the vibrator against Maya's clit.
Lucile whispers in Maya's ear, "Are you ready for this?"
Maya nods, "I...I'm ready."
Lucile chuckles and replies, "Sweet."
Maya can feel her waves of excitement crashing over her as Lucile slides the vibrator into her pussy.
Lucile moves the vibrator in and out. Gently at first, but then with more intensity. She starts to rub Maya's clit with her thumb, making sure to keep the vibrator in place.
Lucile whispers in Maya's ear, "I've got you, sweetie."
Maya grabs a hold of Lucile and wraps her arms around Lucile's neck as she feels herself getting close.
Maya begins to moan and whimper, "Lucile, I--I'm..." She lets out a loud moan.
Lucile laughs and kisses Maya as she bucks her hips. She moves the vibrator in and out of Maya's pussy faster and faster, causing Maya to let out another loud moan.
Maya moans out Lucile's name as she buries her head in Lucile's shoulder, her orgasm about to hit her like a freight train at any moment. She's never felt anything like this before and she can't help but feel overwhelmed.
She feels as if she's going to pass out from the sheer intensity of it all.
Maya's vision blurs and sharpens as she feels herself getting closer and closer to the edge. She lets out a loud moan as Lucile kisses her on the lips and moves the vibrator in and out of Maya's pussy even faster. She moves the vibrator up towards Maya's clit and begins to rub it back and forth.
She moves the vibrator up and down Maya's inner thighs, making sure to keep it pressed against Maya's clit.
Maya lets out another loud moan as she feels...something approaching. Still locked in a passionate kiss, Maya's hearing becomes muffled as she feels her climax approaching. Just then, a pop sound seems to come from nowhere and Maya's body spasms.
Her hearing suddenly returns with a full force, but it's so enhanced that she can hear muffled conversations, honking cars, and even buzzing insects miles away.
How is that even possible?
Maya grabs hold of Lucile as tight as she can and lets out a loud moan. She feels her body convulsing as she is having the most intense orgasm she's ever had. She feels her muscles contracting and her new blood sloshing through her veins.
Her pupils dilate as she can now notice a small flea scurrying on Lucile's hair. She can even sense the Vitae running through Lucile's veins.
It's as if she can see and hear everything in such vivid detail, as if her eyes have been replaced with a microscope and her ears with directional microphones.
She can even smell the faintest traces of blood on Lucile's skin.
Still convulsing with sheer orgasmic pleasure, her nostrils flare up as the smells of the outdoors (both good and bad) enter her nose. She can smell the trees, the grass, the flowers, the animals, and even the soil. She can even smell the faintest traces of blood dripping down Lucile's body.
She can even smell the faintest traces of blood on her own body.
She can smell everything and it's overwhelming her senses.
Her sense of taste is also enhanced as she can taste every single molecule of the air. She can taste the dust lingering in the air, the threads of the bedsheets, and even the saliva in Lucile's mouth.
Lucile draws her closer and kisses her on the neck, making her way to Maya's shoulder, where she continues kissing.
Maya's eyes widen as she starts to taper down from her (undoubtedly) Auspex-induced orgasmic high. Her breathing is ragged. She is still twitching, but the spasms are subsiding. The only thing she can feel is Lucile's body, which is...quite cold, yet inviting.
Maya pants and looks at Lucile, her eyes half-closed and her pupils dilated. She whispers, "Lucile, I...I--"
Lucile bites her lip and says, "Whoa! That was a helluva orgasm. How are you feeling, sweetie?"
Maya gulps and looks at Lucile, "Uh...I don't know. I feel...overwhelmed? No, wait, overloaded?"
Lucile shakes her head and sighs, "Heh, that was something, huh. Tell me about it."
Maya runs a hand through her hair and deeply sighs, "It was so much. I just felt...EVERYTHING." She takes a deep breath and continues, "I could feel the blood...uh no, Vitae, flowing through your veins. And it's amazing! I could even hear stuff from miles away! H--How's any of that even possible?" Maya asks, simultaneously amazed and concerned.
Lucile chuckles, "Auspex is one of the first Disciplines you chose, right? It's what you wanna specialize in, correct?"
Maya nods in the affirmative.
Lucile shrugs and comes closer to Maya, "Well, Auspex is about seeing things. Seeing beyond. It's all about enhancing the senses and stuff. So, y'know, you get to experience things a lot more directly than a regular mortal."
Maya gently runs her hand across Lucile's body and asks, "So...uh, do I get to turn it off or something? It's kinda crazy, but it's also kinda amazing."
Lucile shrugs, "Probably with a lotta patience and training. Either way, you gotta embrace the new, Maya."
Maya looks at Lucile, her eyes wide and longing for more.
Maya immediately takes off Lucile's gym bra, revealing her bare chest. She then straddles Lucile and gently kisses her, their tongues intertwining in love as their bodies smoosh together.
Lucile looks up at Maya and asks, "I told you about my...uh, past encounter. Eh, you got any stories you feel like sharing? I mean...only if you wanna. I don't wanna push you or anything."
Maya gulps and says, "Well, there was this one woman..."
Lucile's eyes lighten up with curiosity as she looks up at Maya, still holding her close.
Maya continues, "It was my final year at Magnolia City Community College. Graduation was just 'round the corner. Anyway, I was pretty much on my own, as I didn't have any family. I had a couple of friends, but most of them were already getting ready for their careers and stuff. And I was still kinda...deciding on whether I wanted to stay in Magnolia City or move back to Plaintry." Her voice trails off and she shakes her head.
"Anyway, she was doing her PHD at the time. Her name was Teresa. A very sweet person, and also really sexy, heh. She was also recently divorced, so yep. A few days before graduation, we ran into each other at this diner near the college. We kinda talked for a while. Eventually, she invited me back to her place. S--She didn't know that I was uh...into girls, so I told her, and she said she'd been feeling the same way for quite some time."
Lucile blinks a few times and says, "Wow, what are the odds. Oh, sorry, continue."
Maya strokes Lucile's hair lovingly and continues, "I had just finished my final exam that day and my grades were really good. I felt like I deserved to have some fun y'know, so we started making out. She went slow. Kinda too slow, I guess, heh. I just got so...swept away by the moment. Anyways, even after graduating, we kept seeing each other. A lot. I mean, we were still both doing our own thing and I didn't wanna get in the way of her PHD stuff. She was...damn! I kinda forgot what she was doing."
"Ooooooh."
Maya places Lucile's head on her chest, "Yeah, the...uh, sex was great. Sometimes we'd even go to a Starbucks or a café or something, just to get some coffee and talk. Her divorce...was messy, to say the least. I guess she saw me as a break from all that. A comfort. Relief, even. We did other stuff too. She was really into hiking, so we did a lot of that. I wasn't too big on it, but it made her happy."
Maya pauses and takes a deep breath, "I never had a girlfriend before that. Anyways, our time together was really really fun."
Lucile asks, "So, why'd it end, then? You 2 seemed...really happy together."
Maya presses Lucile's head further into her chest, "Awwwww, someone's jealous. Uh...sorry. I mean, yeah, we were really happy. I really liked her. Really. It wasn't just some fling or something. But, I didn't feel quite at home in Magnolia City. It...was big and kinda scary for someone like me. I'm a small-town gal through and through, heh. I missed the slower pace, I guess."
Maya sighs deeply, "So, I decided it was best for us if we split. She wanted to stay in Magnolia City. She insisted on it. Plus, I wasn't sure how the whole long distance thing was gonna work out. So, I decided to leave and move back to Plaintry. The rest is...for another time, Lucile. I'm glad I met you, Lucile. I really am. It's...all thanks to you and Eleanor that I'm here now."
Lucile nods, "Yeah, I guess so. We're a team now, eh. You and me. Me and you. 2 Tremeres goin' wild." She pauses and adds, "I'm glad we're together, sweetie. You're special. I could probably never replace your first love, but that's OK. D--Do you still have...feelings for her or anything?"
Maya shakes her head, "Nah. It's been a long time and a lot's changed. She's probably found someone else. I moved on. To you, of course heh heh."
Maya teasingly asks, "So, you still got the hots for that Malkavian, eh?"
Lucile's chuckles, "Ew, no. Haha. All my hots are for my poinsettia now," She says seductively as her tongue makes its way to Maya's lips.
Maya giggles and says, "It's so cool that we can be so...open about all this stuff, Lucile."
"You're my poinsettia. There should be no secrets between us. Period. And that's final."
Maya nods and replies, "Yeah, exactly. I'm glad you feel that way, too."
Maya gently kisses Lucile. She whispers in Lucile's ear, "It's your turn."
Maya grabs the vibrator and begins to rub it up and down Lucile's inner thighs.
Lucile laughs and says, "Wow, you're eager."
Maya chuckles, "Yeah, well, it's my first time tryin' one of these...toys out. I wanna learn all the new ways we can have fun together, hehe."
As Maya hesitatingly inserts and pulls out the vibrator from Lucile's throbbing pussy, she notices a look of surprise on Lucile's face.
Lucile places a hand on Maya's cheek and says, "Mmmm, don't worry, you're doing great, sweetie."
She moans and says, "Damn, you're a fast learner!" She licks Maya's lips and pulls her in for a passionate kiss.
Maya continues to insert and pull out the vibrator. She moves it up and down Lucile's inner thighs whilst passionately making out with Lucile.
She starts to rub Lucile's clit with her thumb whilst continuing to move the vibrator in and out of Lucile's pussy.
Lucile moans and pants as she feels Maya's hand moving faster and faster.
Just then, the vibrator starts to groan and slow down. Maya blinks and asks, "Uh, what happened?"
Lucile sighs in frustration, "Ah, shit! I forgot to charge it! Aw, that sucks."
Maya bites her lip and whispers, "We don't need that. We can go...all natural." She smiles and seductively winks.
She proceeds to slowly move down Lucile's body, licking and kissing every millimeter of skin along the way. Lucile takes off her shorts and underwear. Maya takes her time and gently begins to lick Lucile's pussy.
Lucile places her hands on Maya's head as she lets out a loud moan. She runs her hands through Maya's red hair as she starts to buck her hips. She begins to buck her hips harder and harder as she feels Maya's tongue going deeper and deeper.
She lets out another loud moan as she feels herself getting closer to the edge. She begins to moan louder and louder as she feels herself inching closer to the Big-O.
She grabs hold of Maya's head and begins moving her hips up and down, trying to get her lover's tongue deeper inside her.
She lets out a loud moan as she feels her orgasm building. She can feel herself reaching the tipping point.
"Oooooooooh, Aaaaaaaaah, oh damn! Fuck yeah!" Lucile cries out in pleasure as Maya continues lapping up her labia and clitoris. She lets out another loud moan as her body begins to spasm and convulse.
She puts her hands on Maya's ears and bucks her hips up and down in a frantic motion.
Maya proceeds to place 2 fingers inside Lucile and begins to thrust in and out, in and out. She moves her head up and down, using her tongue to pleasure Lucile's clitoris. Lucile continues to moan and writhe in pleasure as Maya continues to pleasure her.
Maya eventually stops, her fingers dripping in Lucile's juices (and a bit of her Vitae too).
She moves her head up and kisses Lucile on the lips. Then she places a finger in Lucile's mouth and lets out a soft moan. She moves her hand down Lucile's chest and begins to cup one of Lucile's breasts.
Maya licks her lips, "So, every liquid in our body is...blood now? Even...those--" Maya's eyes widen as she realizes the implications of this new discovery. Her body begins to shake as she feels her own blood coursing through her veins.
She exclaims, "Whoa! That's...uh...wow, I don't know what to say, heh."
Lucile caresses Maya's cheek and says, "Don't worry, sweetie. It's all normal." She continues, "It takes getting used to at first, but I know you'll do well."
She pauses and says, "But, there is one thing that I wanna make clear. And I'm sure Eleanor will tell you the same thing tomorrow night."
"Which is?" Maya asks, her voice trembling.
"As Tremere, we're part of the Camarilla. We follow its laws, or we face its punishment. No exceptions."
Lucile firmly states, "I'm sure you understand, right, sweetie? Sure, they're not perfect, but it's all we got for now, Maya."
She places a finger on Maya's lips, "I don't wanna see you get hurt or anything, so let's just keep that in mind, OK? Please? For me? I'm gonna be gone for a few weeks, so I just wanna make sure you're safe when I'm gone."
"Oh, OK," Maya replies, sounding a bit disappointed.
She looks at Lucile and pleads, "I'm...really gonna miss you, Lucile. Is there any way I can come with? I mean, it's just delivering stuff from place to place, right? I--I promise I won't get in the way. Please, pretty please?"
She smiles and continues, "It's...just that, well, I don't wanna be apart from you for so long. W--We just met a couple nights ago! I don't want to lose you so soon."
She pauses and then adds, "Not yet. Not now. Not so soon. Not ever." Her voice is soft and gentle as she caresses Lucile's face.
Lucile understands this but gently says, "Believe me, I'd LOVE to have you along, sweetie. It's...just that the roads are dangerous. You've got the Second Inquisition and all its proxies on you. I'm not taking that risk with someone who's barely a Fledgling, Maya. It's not worth it."
She holds Maya close and kisses her forehead. "I love you, Maya. And I'm NOT gonna risk losing you. Not when I just found you."
Maya nods and replies, "I...I understand, Lucile. I really do. I just wish I could be of more help."
"Don't worry, there's plenty of...stuff you can do around Plaintry. I'm sure the other Kindred would be glad to show you around. It's just that the stuff I gotta do...well, it's just too dangerous, sweetie," Lucile says, trying to console Maya.
Maya smiles and says, "I understand. I'll be good while you're gone, promise. I'll...hold the fort, or uh...Haven and all of that stuff. I'm sure I can find something to do around here. I mean, I've probably got some extra time and all, y'know..."
She pauses for a few seconds and continues, "Now with Annette and Nimbus out of the picture, I guess I gotta look for a new job. There's no way in hell I can go back to my old job, not after what happened."
She looks at Lucile and says, "I--I don't even wanna think about what happened in the morning. It's...just too painful--" Maya's voice trails off and she gulps.
Lucile pulls her in for a hug, "Shhhh, don't worry, sweetie. I'm here for you now. I'm not goin' anywhere." She gently caresses Maya's back and says, "You're safe now. I've got you."
She places a finger on Maya's lips and continues, "And I'll never let you go, my poinsettia."
Maya smiles at Lucile and kisses her on the neck.
Lucile seductively whispers, "I believe we have some unfinished business down south. Care to continue?"
Maya's eyes light up with excitement as she says, "I--I thought you'd never ask!"
She gently pushes Lucile onto the bed and continues, "Oh, and by the way, I can't wait for Eleanor to train me in Auspex. I wanna learn as much as I can from her. From you and her. I...don't wanna let either of you down. I can't afford to. I wanna be worthy of your love, Lucile. I wanna be worthy of our Clan, too."
Lucile gently strokes Maya's hair and says, "You already are, my poinsettia." She continues, "Let's take our time and enjoy the rest of the night together."
Lucile gets on top of Maya and positions her pussy right above Maya's mouth. She slowly begins to lower herself down, giving Maya plenty of time to adjust.
She moves her hips up and down, gently at first, but then with more intensity.
Maya extends her tongue as Lucile lowers herself onto her mouth. Maya gently licks and sucks on Lucile's clitoris, causing Lucile to let out a loud moan. Lucile places her hands on Maya's head and begins to grind her pussy on Maya's hungry mouth, making sure to keep her clit pressed against Maya's tongue.
Maya's hands are clutching Lucile's thighs as she feels herself getting closer to the edge. Lucile moans and hums in pleasure as she feels her orgasm building.
Maya begins to suck on Lucile's clit harder and faster, causing Lucile to moan even louder.
Lucile's eyes widen as she feels herself about to orgasm. She lets out a loud moan and bucks her hips up and down, making sure to keep her clit on Maya's tongue at all times. She begins to moan louder and louder as her orgasm approaches.
Lucile lets out another loud moan as she reaches her climax, "Fuck yeah, sweetie! Oooooooh, Y...YES! Aaaaaaaaah..." Her undead body spasms and twitches as she continues to grind her pussy on Maya's yearning mouth.
Maya continues licking and sucking on Lucile's clit, which is still quite sensitive after her orgasm.
After a while, Maya stops and Lucile, still on top of her, looks down and says, "That...was AMAZING, sweetie. I love you," Lucile says as she drives her hand through Maya's messy red hair.
Maya giggles and says, "I--I love you too, Lucile." She pulls Lucile down for a kiss, their tongues dancing and intertwining as they feel each other's cold and naked bodies pressed against one another.
They wrap their arms around each other as they continue to passionately make out.
After a few minutes, they stop and lay next to each other while looking up at the ceiling. Maya turns to Lucile and says, "Wow, I...uh, can't believe this is all happening. I mean...it's all just going SO FAST. With Annette and our falling out in the morning to...this. I'm just overwhelmed."
She sighs deeply and continues, "I'm just glad I have you, Lucile. I'd--I'd be lost without you."
She looks deep into Lucile's green eyes and says, "I'm gonna miss you, Lucile. Please come back soon, OK?" Maya says, eyes wide and pleading.
She adds, "I don't wanna be apart from you for so long. It's...too much. Too soon." Her voice trails off and she gulps.
Lucile beckons Maya to come closer and lay her head down on her chest. She gently strokes Maya's hair and says, "I know, sweetie. I know. I'm gonna miss you too. But, it's only gonna be for a few weeks. If they make me do anything more than that, I'll say no. Simple."
"B--But the Camarilla..." Maya says, her voice trailing off.
She continues, "I don't want you to get in trouble, Lucile. I--I couldn't bear it." She looks up at Lucile and says, "I'm just gonna be so worried about you when you're out on the road. Y--You got a place to stay? Like a motel or something? I don't want you day-sleeping in your car or anything. It's too dangerous."
She adds, "I don't want you to get hurt, Lucile. I...I can't lose you--"
Lucile runs her fingers through Maya's hair and says, "Shhhh. Don't worry, sweetie. Everything's taken care of. More or less. My training's going well, I got a nice, fast car and my task is simple- deliver package to xyz, rinse, and repeat."
She places a finger on Maya's lips and continues, "And don't worry about me getting in trouble with the SI, I've got all that covered. I'm a Tremere Blood Thaumaturgist, remember? We've got our ways, heh."
Lucile suggests, "Let's just spend the rest of the night talking about something else, hmmm?"
"S...sure. Anything you wanna talk about, Lucile?" Maya asks.
Lucile smiles and says, "Tell me about your time at college." She adds, "I'm sure you've got some cool stories, right?" She presses her breasts against Maya's and says, "C'mon, tell me all about it."
She winks and continues, "I'm all ears, sweetie."
Maya breathes out and says, "Heh. Well...uh, despite being chronically single, I was something of a matchmaker back in Magnolia City Community College. I guess it's just in my nature, y'know? I mean, I've always been pretty good at pairing people up and stuff. I guess that...just came naturally to me."
She adds, "I was also a part-time tutor, so I guess that helped too, heh."
She continues, "But other than that, I kept my head down and minded my own business. Magnolia City wasn't a friendly place, especially for someone like me. I mean, it's a big city and all, but I didn't really fit in. I was ALWAYS a small-town girl through and through, heh."
She takes a deep breath and continues, "So, I mostly kept to myself. I...did take a gap year to travel to Flimont City. It was kinda fun, but I eventually got tired of it and decided to go back to school. I wanted to get my degree and start a career. I...didn't wanna loaf around forever. I wanted to do something with my life."
She pauses and adds, "I...didn't have any family or anything, so I guess I had to make and find my own way in the world, y'know?"
Lucile rubs Maya's arm, "Awwww, it must've been tough growing up an orphan." She adds, "I'm glad you found your way, sweetie. You're doing great. And you're gonna do even better, I know it."
Maya cups Lucile's face and says, "Thanks, Lucile. It means a lot to hear that from you. I--I hope I can live up to your expectations. I don't wanna disappoint you or...or hurt you in any way, Lucile." She gently kisses Lucile's breast and says, "I...I love you, Lucile."
Lucile smiles and responds, "I love you too, Maya."
Maya asks, "So, what about you? What was Harvard like in the 90s, hmmmm?" She gently kisses Lucile's neck and continues, "I'm sure you've got some neat stories to tell, right?"
She gently teases Lucile's nipple with her tongue and whispers, "C'mon, tell me all about it, Lucile. Please?"
Lucile giggles, "Believe it or not, but I was a wallflower at Harvard. I was into my books and studies, didn't get invited for any parties, not even the lame pity ones they throw for outcasts and rejects. I was kinda a nerd, I guess. I didn't have many friends, and the few I had, I lost contact with. So, I just focused on my studies and stayed out of trouble."
She adds, "Besides, molecular biochemistry wasn't exactly gonna get you laid in the freakin' 90s, haha." She continues, "I didn't have a girlfriend either. Hell, I was afraid to come out. I mean, the 90s were a different time, y'know. I was terrified of what others would say if I told them I was...different."
She sighs and continues, "I guess I was kinda lucky, though. I was eventually noticed by Eleanor and got Embraced. I was a bit reluctant at first, but I soon realized that it was the best thing that ever happened to me. I mean, I'm a vampire now, and...I'm in love with the most beautiful woman I've ever seen. Life is good."
She chuckles and adds, "Well, Unlife, haha."
Maya nods and says, "Yeah, I can relate. I was kinda the same way. I only told my best friend I was into girls. And he was cool with it. Damn, I kinda miss him. But, I didn't tell anyone else. I was too scared. I guess I just wanted to blend in, y'know? I didn't want to stand out or anything. I guess that's why I'm so happy with you, Lucile. You make me feel like I belong. Like I'm special. Like I matter."
She looks deep into Lucile's eyes and says, "You make me feel like I'm finally home, Lucile."
She gently kisses Lucile on the lips and continues, "I love you, Lucile. I really really REALLY do. I'm so happy I met you. I'm so happy we're together."
Lucile smiles and says, "I love you too, Maya. My poinsettia. My...everything." She pulls Maya in for a passionate kiss. They wrap their arms around each other and continue to passionately make out.
After a few minutes, they stop and look into each other's eyes.
Maya then says, "This is a new chapter in my...uh...Unlife and I'm glad it begins with you, Lucile. I can't wait to see where it takes us."
She gently caresses Lucile's cheek and continues, "I'm just gonna miss you so much, Lucile. I'm gonna miss you so so much."
She places her head on Lucile's chest and says, "I'm gonna miss you every second you're gone."
"I feel the same way, Maya. Believe me, if there was a way out, I'd take it in a heartbeat. But, I don't have a...choice. I'm sorry, sweetie, it's just the way it is," Lucile says, her voice filled with sadness.
She adds, "We should really figure out a way to stay in touch, though. I mean, I won't be able to use my phone because the SI's scanning everything these nights, so the Camarilla called for a total electronic comms blackout. But, we can still work our way around that, right?"
Maya nods and says, "Yeah, I was thinking the same thing. Wait, the SI does what now?! Is that even legal?!" Maya asks, her eyes wide with shock.
Lucile shrugs, "Not sure about the specifics, but it's definitely happening. The Camarilla's not happy about it, but they're doing what they can to keep things under control. Other Camarilla Domains take a hardline approach and execute anyone caught with a cellphone or laptop, but that's not how things are done in Plaintry. At least, not yet."
She adds, "But, it's probably gonna get worse before it gets better, so we should be careful either way."
Maya asks, "Why is the Camarilla...so afraid? I mean, the SI are just ordinary mortals, right?"
Lucile sighs, "They're not just ordinary mortals, Maya. They're organized. They're disciplined. They've got resources. And they're backed by the US Government. They're not something you wanna mess with. And the Camarilla knows that."
Maya nods and says, "I--I guess that makes sense."
She asks, "What about other threats on the road? I mean, there's gotta be other...rogue Kindred out there, right? How do you plan on dealing with them?"
Lucile shrugs, "I'd better avoid 'em, heh. But if worst comes to worst, I got a few mean Blood Spells up my sleeve. I'll be fine, sweetie. Don't worry."
Maya looks up at Lucile and says, "I can't help it, I'm a...worrier. But, I trust you, Lucile. I really do. I just hope you're not putting yourself in unnecessary danger, that's all."
Lucile nods and reassures Maya, "I'll be fine, Maya. I just want you to be good, play nice, and stay safe while I'm gone, OK? I don't want you to get into trouble or anything. I just want you to be safe. It's been a while since a new Kindred has been Embraced in Plaintry."
Maya asks, "So, uh...when, or uh...who was the last one?"
"Heh, who wasn't the last one. The previous Prince had a tendency to allow the Embrace of nearly every single person who showed even the slightest bit of talent...or skin, if you catch my drift. He was...a very laid-back kinda guy, y'know. I met him a few times. Toreador by the name of Geoffrey."
"Oh, so what happened to him?"
Lucile makes a throat-cutting gesture with her finger, "The Camarilla's not big on people breaking the Masquerade. Or Embracing without permission. Or being a general nuisance. Or just existing, in some cases. Look, I don't know the specifics and I'm not sure I wanna, and it's best not to poke around and ask such questions, trust me. All I know is after the Sheriff took his head off, the Nosferatus and Toreadors were either exiled or Blood Hunted. The rest of us are still here, more or less."
Maya blinks and says, "Wow, that's...uh, heavy. I--I can't believe there was this whole secret world under my nose for so long! That Masquerade stuff really works, huh?"
"Heh, it's no magic trick, Maya. Truth is, mortals do half the job for us. It's kinda sad when you think about it," Lucile replies.
She adds, "So, just make sure you don't spill the beans to the wrong person and you'll be fine."
"So, who's the new Prince, then?"
Lucile replies, "The current Prince, Lucas of Clan Ravnos, is much more...cautious, I guess. Met him a few times. Nice guy. Since he's a Wanderer, most of the important Kindred in this town don't have a scheduled meeting time. From what I hear, he has his Ghoul, Frank, take care of that sort of stuff."
"Oooooh, so when do I get to meet all the other bigwigs?" Maya asks, excitedly. She continues, "I can't wait to see what they look like. Or sound like. Hehe." Her eyes are bright as she wonders what the other Kindred in this town will be like.
Little does she know.
Lucile shrugs, "They...mostly prefer to keep to themselves and their Havens and stuff. I think Eleanor might decide to present you to the Prince when she feels you're ready. But, other than that, I genuinely don't know what other Kindred are doing around here. You could always go down to their Havens and say 'hello', I guess. But, it might not be a great idea to go poking your head in other Kindred's affairs."
Lucile puts her hand on Maya's face and continues, "Actually, it's best not to go where you're not needed. Period. Other Kindred tend to get...salty when new blood starts poking around, no offense."
She chuckles and says, "Look, the other Kindred in this town, they're...fine as long as you don't piss them off. They've been here for years. They're the ones who have their hands on the levers and dials. Just...give them a wide berth."
She looks into Maya's eyes and firmly says, "But, they're NOT to be trifled with, Maya. Some of them could possibly end a barely-Fledgling like you in seconds. Just be careful around them and keep your head down, and you'll be fine, OK, sweetie?"
Maya gulps, "OK, I'll keep that in mind, Lucile."
"I know you will. It's just...things can get a bit dicey in Plaintry. The town has a history, a past, as do all of its Kindred." Lucile's voice trails off as she tries to recall her time in the town.
She sighs, "Anyway. That's that. So, anything else on your mind? You wanna talk about, uh...stuff or anything?"
Maya shuffles and pulls the blanket over her as she replies, "I...guess I'm kinda scared. Scared about what I might find in Plaintry. I--I wanna do things right. I don't wanna let anyone down."
Lucile reassures her, "You'll be fine. Just remember whatever Eleanor thought you. And, if in doubt, always defer to the Prince. If he's cool with what you're doing, then do it."
She places a finger on Maya's nose and adds, "Also, focus on your training. Auspex...is no easy Discipline to master. Believe me, I tried. Decades ago. So, focus on what matters."
She kisses Maya and continues, "And try to get to know some of the Ghouls around here." She takes a deep breath and says, "I know Eleanor has a very low opinion of Ghouls in general, but they can be quite useful. It's never a bad thing to have contacts and people you can rely on in case things go south."
She caresses Maya's hair and adds, "Not that they will, of course, but still. I mean, keep in mind that Ghouls are bound by a Blood Bond to obey the orders of their Domitors. So, just be nice when talking to them, respect the laws of Plaintry, and you'll do fine."
She gently kisses Maya's cheek and adds, "I'll try to help as much as I can, but I won't be around for the first few weeks, so it's better if you can get to know some of them on your own. I know some are not what they seem, so it's up to you to...find out what's real and what isn't."
She looks deep into Maya's eyes and pleads, "But, ALWAYS be wary of their motives, OK? You never know what someone's...actually after. And, be careful how you speak to them. So be on your best behavior at all times, sweetie. The Camarilla's pretty...medieval, so brush up on your uh, manners and stuff."
Maya does a fake British accent, "Of course, m'lady. M'lord that is a most...posh outfit you are wearing? Pure silk, I presume? You do not look like a serf, but perhaps a...pardon my saying, a jester." Maya giggles uncontrollably.
"Oh, Maya," Lucile laughs.
The rest of the night was spent in idle chatter. The duo talked about books, movies, TV shows, video games, fashion, makeup, and so much more. Giggling, laughing, touching, teasing, and occasionally kissing.
The 2 women felt closer than ever and were enjoying every second of it.
Meanwhile...
A small jeep halts to a stop at the town's center. It's mostly quiet at this time of the night, but there are a few cyclists and joggers here and there.
A man with long, messy hair tied into an equally messy bun steps out of the jeep and looks around. He takes in his surroundings as he gets used to this place.
A short woman with bobbed black hair (including some purple streaks) and deep brown eyes walks towards him. She has a slight accent and she asks, "So, Torvald. This...is the place, then? I guess it's not as big as I imagined it to be."
She adds, "Are you sure we're in the right place?"
He grins at the short woman as he replies, "This is most certainly the place, Emi. Don't you sense the corruption lingering in the air?" He takes a deep breath as he says this and he lets out a long exhale.
He walks towards Emi, his body slender and slightly hunched over due to his heavy rucksack. "This is indeed Plaintry. Unremarkable. One would think those...things would have better taste, but it is what it is."
"What about the others?" Emi asks as she impatiently taps her fingers on the door of the jeep.
Torvald points to the horizon as a smirk appears upon his lips, "The others will arrive in due time. They've been here before and are familiar with the place, so it won't be long before they meet us."
A big, bald man hops out of the jeep, his feet pounding on the concrete ground as he lands. He stands a foot above Torvald and has a thick, heavy-looking beard covering most of his face. "Ah, here we are, at the heart of the taint itself. I'm sure that once the others arrive, we'll be able to begin the hunt," he says as he flexes his arms.
Torvald nods, "That is the plan, Gunnar."
He then calls out, "Anja?"
A tall woman emerges out of the jeep. Her blonde hair is short and messy and she wears a black jacket with skinny jeans. Her face is long and freckled and she wears thick, black-rimmed glasses. Her eyes are pale blue, like Torvald's.
She sighs and says, "Ugh, so congesting. Next time, I want to sit up front, Tor."
She looks at Torvald, Gunnar, Emi and asks, "So, what do we do now?"
Emi walks towards her and offers her a chocolate bar, "We...uh get some rest, maybe? I'm excited to see this country and this unusual town for the first time. The...legends, I just want to see them come alive."
Torvald adds, "Don't worry, you will, Emi. But first, let's decide where we're going to be staying for the remainder of the night."
Gunnar grunts, "Even now, Torvald, I can sense those tainted leeches!" He growls as he cracks his knuckles, "These...things have corrupted the land for far too long."
Anja tears open the wrapper and takes the chocolate bar to her dry lips as she says, "I just want to lay my head down for a few hours."
Torvald looks around and says, "Perhaps a bed and breakfast will do us just fine." He adds, "Besides, there are plenty of places we can go to when the others arrive."
He grins at Anja as he adds, "We've been in worse places, Anja, much worse. This little town will not be the end of us. I can guarantee that."
Gunnar points at a bar and asks, "I could use a drink right about now. Anja?"
Anja grimaces as she shakes her head.
Emi clasps her hands together, "I...would like a 'drink', yes."
Torvald coldly says, "Sure, as long as you're over 21."
Emi huffs, "I'll be 21 in 2 years. I just wanna drink!" She pouts and stomps her feet on the ground, "Why do I have to wait, huh, huh?!" She crosses her arms and sulks.
Torvald shrugs as he replies, "We don't want any...unwanted attention while we're here. Just remember the purpose of our visit, cub. We'll get to party later, don't you worry."
Gunnar puts his hand on Emi's head and ruffles her hair, "Patience, cub, patience."
She mumbles something and goes into a huff, "I can't believe you're still calling me that."
Anja scoffs as she grabs her rucksack off the ground and readjusts her fanny pack, "Well, decide soon. The sooner we get some rest, the sooner we can begin."
Torvald clasps his hands together and says, "Indeed. Of course, our...contact in this town hasn't gotten back to us yet."
He sighs as he continues, "So, let's go and find somewhere to rest, at least."
He adds, "We might as well grab a drink. I've always been a bit curious about...American beer. The locals seem to be rather fond of it, from what I understand."
Gunnar eagerly nods in agreement as he briskly walks towards the bar. Emi follows behind, skipping and giggling with glee. Anja keeps her head down and tags along.
Torvald takes one look around and says to himself, "The glorious hunt will soon begin. None shall be spared from our wrath." A slight smirk appears upon his lips as he goes off into the bar with the others.
They're in Plaintry.
After a few hours of chatting, Maya and Lucile eventually succumb to the day-sleep as the sun slowly starts to emerge. With their arms around each other. Maya is scared at first, but Lucile's soft touch and reassurance eventually get her to comfortably doze off.
After a few minutes, Maya totally succumbs and they sleep, holding each other's cold and naked bodies.
The days (and nights) ahead were about to get a lot more...eventful.
Chapter 8: The Move- Part 1
The sun rises over the town, bathing the sleepy streets in its warmth and light. It's a bright and sunny day as the town begins to awaken. But, for Maya and Lucile, they are fast asleep. As are all Kindred in this town.
Annette wakes up to the sound of an alarm clock ringing loudly in her room. She sluggishly reaches out to turn it off, but she accidentally hits it and sends it falling onto the floor.
She curses and lets out an exhausted groan as she slowly gets out of bed and reaches down for the clock.
She sighs as she notices her reflection in the cracked glass of the clock, "Ugh, great. Just great."
She sarcastically adds, "So, what does this bright and lovely day hold for you, Annette? Hmmmm? A day full of bullshit, that's what, pfft. And there's no escaping it, 'cause you know you can't."
She takes a deep breath and continues, "Ugh, no point crying over spilt milk. That's what mom always said. Well, I guess I should start getting ready for the furnace, huh? Hahaha, what a riot that would be."
She pulls up her underwear as she reaches for a new bra. "Time to go to hell, heh," she sighs.
"Time to face the music, Annette," she thinks as she reaches for a dress. "Just...just think of what's at stake, Annette."
She slips into a short, frilly green dress with pink accents, matching stockings and black platform heels. Her hair is tied in a ponytail and she puts on bright red lipstick and black eyeshadow.
She takes a long look at the mirror and sighs, "I guess this'll have to do."
She throws a bunch of fruits into a food processor and presses the button, "I--I'll be fine. I'm tough, I'm smart, and I know how to use my brain, right?"
She sighs and adds, "Just...ugh, never mind."
The food processor chugs along, churning and pulverizing her breakfast.
She takes the finished "drink" out and pours it into a cup. She then reaches for a thermos and fills it with the drink, making sure to keep it sealed tight.
Lastly, she grabs her purse and car keys and leaves. She sighs as she gets into the driver's seat of her car. The familiar leathery smell of her car fills the air, mixed with the scent of the strawberry-flavored smoothie in the thermos.
However, the smell of booze and barf from yesterday hasn't quite worn off. Her car is also scratched on the side and slightly dented at the front.
Annette grunts and thinks, "Great, I gotta get that looked at later."
She sighs and continues, "Just my luck. Just my fucking luck."
She starts her car and drives over to the Nimbus office. Time for her to face the music. She hopes she can salvage...something from this mess with her and Maya. Her car roars to life and she sets out.
After about 15 minutes of driving, she pulls over in front of her place of work.
Or former place of work. Although, she genuinely hopes that won't be the case. Nimbus has been good to her. And Edgar, her boss, is a pretty hands-off kind of guy, for the most part.
However, the thought of seeing Edgar right now doesn't make her feel all that great.
He's gonna chew her out for sure. And part of her knows that she deserves it.
She notices a bottle of wine in her car's console. How did that get there? Never mind. She takes a long look at it, turns the bottle around in her hands a few times and puts it back, "Better keep this for later."
She decides against that, "Oh, what the hell. Just a little sip."
She pops the cork off and takes a sip. It's cheap stuff, but it's drinkable, and it makes her feel a little better, so there's that.
She lets out a soft sigh and places the bottle back in its original location.
She eyes her cup full of her "breakfast" and gets an idea. She chugs down a few sips of the smoothie, chewing on the chunks and bits of fruit that weren't pulverized by the blades of the food processor.
Annette then pours some of the wine into the cup, closes it, and shakes it like a margarita. "Hmmm, not bad. Not bad at all," she chuckles to herself.
"Now, into the belly of the beast. Ugh, I swear to god, if I see Maya in there, I'm gonna..." she says as she tightly clenches the cup and grits her teeth.
She lets out a loud sigh, "And here we go again, heh. Here we go."
Annette walks through the main doors and the office is...not as active as it usually is. No surprise there.
Why show up to work for a magazine whose top lifestyle writer got "caught" sleeping with the mayoral candidate?
Well, not "caught" per se. More like, a certain loose tongued "friend" blurting it out in front of a crowd in the middle of a quarrel.
Which has already spread across social media like a damn chain reaction.
The yellow rags and gossip sites of America are having a field day with Nimbus. All its employees are (no doubt) going to have a rough time in the days (and nights) to come. As if their time wasn't already bad enough.
Of the few employees that remain, hunched and slumped at their cubicles, only 2 look up. The rest just slog along, as if in a daze, eyes glazed over.
Some seem to be taking calls, answering emails, doing some work, while the rest seem to have resigned to staring blankly into their computers.
The 2 just frown at Annette and curse under their breath. Some of them whisper among themselves and Annette catches a few phrases and snippets, but it doesn't sound pleasant.
It doesn't take much effort for her to make out some of the words: whore, skank, slut, and the like.
"Ship sinker." Now, that's a new one. Edgar always did love "motivating" his employees with fishing analogies that only he and maybe one other older guy would understand. At least, Annette guesses that's what that particular one means.
Either way, not a pleasant feeling to hear that coming from her former co-workers, some of whom she knows by name and worked alongside with on stories before.
Deep down, Annette hopes that all of...this is a fluke and not a reflection of things to come. But, who are we kidding?
The writing's been on the wall for years now- Nimbus is struggling.
Print magazines aren't what they used to be. It's been going downhill ever since digital started to take over.
Adding insult to injury, Nimbus doesn't really have the funds or willpower for a digital version of their magazines. Despite the insistence of the younger staff to the contrary, Edgar and the older executives just didn't care. Or have the time. And so, the youngsters' pleas were brushed aside and Nimbus struggled on.
Until now.
Now, it might as well just roll over and die.
Annette gulps hard as she's inches away from Edgar's office. Still drab and dull. Does he ever take the time to decorate, or does the old man just love that 70s wood paneling and old brown filing cabinets so much that he never bothers with something as frivolous as...dusting?
She lets out a shaky sigh and knocks on the door, "H...hello, Edgar?" she calls out in her sweetest voice.
No response.
"Uh, can I come in?"
Edgar sighs and shakes his head, "What do you think?" He's not his usual cheery self. He hasn't been. Not since yesterday. The bags under his eyes, the stubble on his face, the coffee-stained flannel shirt. All of these are a far cry from his usual happy-go-lucky self.
He doesn't bother to even look up from the mountains of papers, 1 tablet, and 2 phones on his desk.
"I--I'm sorry for...uh...everything," she softly says as she scratches her arm.
Edgar takes off his round glasses and throws it on to the table. He massages his temples with both hands as he lets out an exasperated sigh, "Do you have any idea how bad things are, Annette?"
Annette gulps. It's not like he's yelling, but his voice is grim and full of contempt.
He asks, "Where is Maya? I want her here for this. She hasn't returned any of my texts and calls. I want her here for this."
Annette gulps hard as her palms start to get sweaty, "I...uh, don't know. And to be honest, I don't care. It's all her fault, Edgar. She--"
Edgar raises his finger and sternly says, "Enough. I don't wanna hear it. It doesn't matter whose 'fault' it is, Annette."
She gets defensive and shouts back, "You...you should be more worried about the fact that we got a loose-tongued bitch running around here!"
Edgar grimly stares at her as he calmly replies, "And you're somehow better?" He slams his hands on his desk as he gets up.
"I'll tell you what I told you yesterday. I don't care who you...sleep with in your own time, Annette. It's none of my business, frankly. And it shouldn't matter to any of us. B--But, this is a professional setting, for crying out loud. I would have thought you'd understand that!"
He bends down to pick up some papers and pens that fell down and continues, "Even if it was consensual and off the clock, it was still a breach of numerous ethical considerations. Not just from Bernice. From both of you!"
Annette grimaces. She wants to retort back, but she knows it'd just make things worse. So, she decides to just stay quiet. She'd better let Edgar get this out of his system. It's best if she doesn't interrupt or...interject.
Edgar takes a deep breath and sighs, "So, this is what we're going to do, Annette. We're going to get through this mess. We're going to put our heads down and get through it. Together."
She nods as she continues, "Maya's...well, she's not here."
Edgar heavily sighs and throws up his hands, "I...I don't know where she is. And I know she's probably the last person you wanna see, Annette, but--"
Annette blurts out, "No, I...uh, don't really wanna see that ungrateful, sniveling bitch at all right now, Edgar."
She adds, "She...she ruined my life! SHE deserves all this."
Edgar calmly replies, "I just want to hear her side of it all, Annette."
He puts his glasses back on and says, "Of course, nobody deserves...any of this. I'll do what I can, but the board is out for blood." He shuffles and picks up the tablet on the table and types away on it.
He swipes on the tablet a few times and mutters something to himself before continuing, "Besides, we've just got quite an offer. In spite of all of...this."
Annette purses her lips and asks, "W...well, who is it?"
"Some Silicon Valley big-timer." Edgar pauses and shuffles around the papers on the desk.
He holds up a small flyer and says, "24 years old. Name's Camden Cross. A young hotshot from a startup called..." He squints as he reads it, "E--Ensure? Some kinda dietary supplement manufacturer or something."
Annette looks over at the flyer and asks, "So, uh...what could someone like him possibly want with Nimbus?!"
Her expression is flabbergasted as she looks over the flyer and reads a few key bullet points, "N...nutrition, supplemental, fiber, alt-diets? What kind of guy would wanna get into...small town magazines?!"
Edgar shrugs, "Something about diversifying his investment portfolio or something. He says that a 'print-heavy' investment could 'lead to more growth in the digital sphere,' or something like that."
He continues, "It's something he's been planning to do for years, apparently."
Annette is even more confused, "B...but why us? There's a dime a dozen print magazine companies out there!"
Edgar chuckles a bit. He takes a few moments to collect himself and replies, "Well, to quote him directly: 'I like Nimbus and it's vibe.'"
He continues, "That's...pretty much it. You know that we're barely holding on as it is. So, this is what we're going to do- we're going to give this guy a shot, Annette."
Annette shakes her head and skeptically responds, "There's NO FUCKING way he'd be interested even after...this. I, uh, think it's a scam. A scheme or something, Edgar."
Edgar nods, "Maybe, maybe not, Annette. But what other choices do we have? I've never heard of this guy in my entire life. I did some digging, and it turns out that he's just...one of those types. Silicon Valley and the tech crowd are full of these eccentric sorts, after all."
He chuckles and continues, "The board seems eager to sell and he's eager to buy, so here we are."
"This...can't be real! He...he doesn't want us! We're nothing to him! There's NO WAY!" she rambles on as she tries to take in the reality of the situation.
"I'm sorry, Annette, but this is just how things are going to be," he flatly responds as he leans back against the backrest of his chair and massages his temples yet again.
"Ugh, Edgar, how much is he--"
"THAT is not any of your concern, Annette. This is our new reality and there's no getting around it."
He breathes in and out and goes on, "He's already proposed some...drastic changes. He wants to rebrand and relaunch Nimbus. With a new focus on his...supplement business. And a digital component. That's the main reason he's buying us out."
He shakes his head and recalls, "He even called the board a bunch of 'boomers' and 'dinosaur fossils' during one of the meetings. Can you believe that? Heh."
He sighs and continues, "He's also keen on...restructuring the company. He's gonna have to let a lot of people go, unfortunately."
Edgar then adds, "I tried to convince him to keep as many of the staff as possible, but he wasn't having it."
Edgar scratches his chin and continues, "'Cutting the fat.' His words, not mine. I'd never say that about my employees. We're a family. But, I guess he's just that type of guy. The kind who likes to...disrupt."
He adds, "He's...dare I say, a bit obnoxious."
He leans all the way back in his chair and puts his hands over his face, "I'm sorry, Annette. I know this isn't what you wanted to hear. I really wish Maya were here. We're probably going to have to let one or both of you go. I know it's not fair, but it's just...how it is from now on."
Edgar gets up and walks towards Annette, "I'm sorry, Annette. But the board needs a decision. They're anxious and don't wanna lose out on this opportunity. I'll do what I can from my end, but I don't know what else to say."
He puts his hand on her shoulder and gives it a gentle squeeze. "I'm sorry, Annette. Truly. You have a lot of potential. I just hope this doesn't set you back too much."
Annette gulps hard and nods. She doesn't know what to say. She just wants to leave. She feels like she's about to cry, but she holds it in. She doesn't want to show weakness.
Not in front of Edgar. Not in front of anyone.
"Uh...I gotta go. I need to think about...things," she softly says as she turns to leave.
As she's leaving, Edgar calls out and says, "You were one of our best, Annette. I remember you when you first started. All wide-eyed and ambitious. Always ready to go the extra mile. And look at you now. I'm...I'm proud of you, Annette. And I know you'll be fine. You're tough. You'll get through this. You have your whole life ahead of you."
He adds, "And don't worry about the board. I'll handle them. I'll do what I can."
Annette isn't too convinced by Edgar's words. So, she just leaves without saying anything and slams the door shut on her way out.
As she's heading for the exit, one of the employees, a woman in her 40s stands up and blocks her path. "Great job, missy. You really are a piece of work, aren't you? Y'know, some of us have families to feed," she says as she crosses her arms.
She has a stern look on her face as she continues, "And now all of us might be on the chopping block cuz you couldn't keep your damn legs shut!"
She storms off after saying what she needed to say.
Annette looks around and sees that a few others are looking at her. Some shake their heads and some just ignore her. She runs out of the building and heads for her car. She starts her car, but she can't quite go.
Not yet. Not yet. Her heart's pounding, her body's shaking, and she feels like she's about to cry.
She starts crying as her face gets red and she breaks out in tears. She violently hits the steering wheel, causing the horn to honk as she curses herself and her rotten luck. After a few minutes, she pulls the wine bottle out again.
This time, she doesn't hold back. She doesn't even bother with her breakfast "mix".
She drinks the entire bottle, in one go. She drinks it like its a small cup of water. Her mind's blank, she doesn't think or feel. She's not angry, sad, or scared anymore. She's just...numb.
The wine is cheap and tastes horrible, but it does the trick. Her face gets red, her cheeks warm, her breath heavy and she starts feeling sleepy.
However, she also feels a surge of energy coursing through her veins. Her heart pounds as the alcohol begins to course through her body. She lets out a deep sigh as she puts her foot on the peddle. With her vision blurring, she puts the car on reverse, and backs up.
Her car scrapes the pavement and topples a trash can as she turns to leave.
Her phone rings. She's tempted to pick it up, but decides not to. Who could it be anyway? The ringing doesn't help the throbbing in her head. It gets worse and worse. It's just like yesterday. A terrible, awful, headache.
The heat coming down from the sun doesn't help either, but it's not like she can do anything about THAT.
Her car is positioned in such a way that the entrance to the Nimbus office is right in front of her. She can't help but look as her former place of work slowly grows smaller and smaller as her vision blurs. Her breathing is heavy and erratic and a thought enters her mind.
She decides to indulge it. What more can go wrong anyway?
Annette puts her feet down all the way, her foot practically hitting the car floor and the pedal. She's still feeling sleepy, drunk, tired, groggy, and numb. So, she lets her body take over as she crashes the car right through the front of the Nimbus office.
Glass, metal, and wood fly in every direction as Annette's car slams through the doors and the windows, destroying the entrance, sending up a huge cloud of smoke.
The airbags deploy (thankfully) but Annette's head is gashed and bleeding from the crash and shards of glass. Blood's running down her eyes and nose and she's groggy and feeling lightheaded from all the booze in her system, mixed with the smoke and debris.
The other employees are panicking and running out, while the cops and an ambulance are on the way.
Annette just laughs like a mad woman. It's not even a maniacal laugh, but just a simple and amused chuckle. She laughs to herself as she struggles to get out of her car. She notices that there's a piece of glass lodged into her head.
It hurts like hell. She pulls it out and puts pressure on her forehead as she climbs out of the wrecked car, stumbling and struggling to stand on her own feet.
She falls down on her rear end, the glass shard dropping from her hand and slicing her palm.
A couple of people are coming to help her, but she just waves them off and swears at them. They look at each other, unsure if they should intervene or not.
She's mumbling something, but it's not entirely sure what she's saying. A few of the Nimbus employees are calling 911 while some of the onlookers pull their phones out and start recording.
However, a few are already there and they're not happy at what they see.
Annette, sitting on the ground, bleeding and swaying from side to side slurs her words as she says, "S...send off gift. A...always th--thoug...thought I'd...I'd run the pl--place one day...hehehe."
She goes on and on about Bernice, saying, "S...so what if...we had some fun...I--I deserve it! ALL of...of it! M--Maya got hers. And so...I'll get mine...haha...hahahaha!"
Her head's spinning, her vision blurring, and the last thing she sees before everything goes black is a policeman getting out of his car and slowly approaching her, one hand on his holster, while his partner, a female officer, has her hand on hers, just in case.
The paramedics are just pulling up too, along with a fire truck, although the building hasn't sustained any critical damage. It's just most of the front.
"Pfft, co--come to...whisk Annette...away," she murmurs as she struggles to keep herself conscious. Her vision blurs even more and the last thing she sees before she faints are the policeman and the paramedics rushing over.
The paramedics look concerned for her health, while the officers have a mixture of annoyance and apprehension on their faces. She faints, but she still smiles as she feels hands lifting her up.
The male officer looks around and says to himself, "And they say Plaintry's a sleepy town..."
A female paramedic, with a thick afro and brown eyes, examines Annette and shakes her head, "Damn, we'll have to take her in."
The male officer replies, "Yeah, I'd say she's in no state to answer any of my questions. But, I still need to question her."
He says, "Let's take her in to the station first."
The paramedic shakes her head, "What?! No way! This woman needs a hospital! Look at the wound on her head, her arms. She's covered in blood and cuts!"
The officer just rolls his eyes as she continues, "What if she has internal bleeding, huh? Internal bleeding ain't no joke! And don't think I don't know what ya'll did with that homeless guy last time!"
She pushes the cop to the side, "Now, get outta my way. I got a life to save. Either help out or stay out! Got it?"
The officer, with a look of contempt on his face, reluctantly nods.
Annette, barely conscious, mumbles a few words as they load her up in the ambulance, "S...swe--sweet d...dreams." She smiles, "Sweet dreams...a--all a--around..."
She goes on and on about chasing the dream and grabbing rare opportunities by the horns.
Her mumbling and murmuring slowly dies down as she falls into a deep, deep slumber, spit and blood flowing down her chin.
The paramedic just shakes her head and does what she needs to do as the cop gets back in his car and follows along. They drive off towards the nearest hospital.
They reach the hospital and a stretcher is being pushed over towards her as the paramedic says to the nurse, "Lodged glass in head and possibly other debris. Prep the surgery room ASAP."
The nurse nods and tells everyone else to move aside and clear a path. "She needs to go straight to the O.R. The doctors will decide what to do after we run a few scans on her."
The nurse yells out to the rest, "Hey, people, let's move! Let's move!"
The female cop, with her arms crossed, looks on from her car with a worried and apprehensive look and asks her partner, "What was that back over there, huh?"
The male officer shakes his head and turns the car around. "I dunno, I...I dunno. That chick was on a roll, that's for sure. Don't think I've seen anything quite like it," he responds.
The female cop pulls out a cigarette and says, "No, dumbass. The other thing. That paramedic. What she said back there--"
Her partner nods, "Yeah, I know. What was she thinking? I was this close to clocking her. Hmph."
She puts the cigarette to her lips and lights it, "I dunno, I would've tased her for obstruction, heh heh heh."
The male cop nods and blithely replies, "Had the same thought. How does she even know about that son of a bitch?! I thought they sealed that case!"
The female cop takes a drag on her cigarette and says, "Oh yeah, yeah. She was one of the responders that night."
She adds, "Besides, there was a witness. Somebody got it on video."
"Fuck!" he grumbles as he clenches his fists and tightens his grip on the steering wheel.
He asks, "So, what do we do now, huh? Y'know how Eunice gets."
He adds, "If we're going down, we're sure as hell taking her with us!"
The female cop rolls her eyes and responds, "Oh, get a grip, dumbass. No one's going down for anything."
She continues, "Besides, he's been dead for a month. Why now, huh?"
The male cop shrugs and groans, "Uh...I don't know. All I know is his sister, Gladys, has been asking questions she shouldn't be askin'."
He scratches his chin as a few bits of doughnut fall off, "So, we...gonna do something about that, huh?"
She looks into her partner's eyes and sternly replies, "WE are gonna keep doing our jobs. The clowns in this town got an issue with that," she pulls out her gun and brandishes it, "Well, then we'll just have to show 'em who's really in charge around here, won't we, partner?"
She looks away and says, "But, for now, we're just gonna wait for this lady to come around so we can have a nice chat."
The male cop seems reassured and says, "Yeah. Eunice seems competent enough to deal with all of...this."
The female cop shudders and says, "Honestly? She gives me the fuckin' creeps. I've seen her in action, y'know. I dunno what she was trying to do, but there were reports of some guy saying she bit him. Right here, on the neck."
She taps the side of her neck with her finger, "Just a little below the ear."
She takes a drag on her cigarette and continues, "I...I don't know, man."
"Yeah. She's...something else. Is it weird that she's only on duty during the night?"
She shrugs and blows out some smoke, "Eh, she's a cop from one of them big cities. Seen a lotta shit. So, I can't blame her for being on the night shift. Probably easier."
She sniffs, "Wouldn't be surprising."
She goes on, "And maybe she's just dealing with the death of her husband. Sheesh, what was all that about, huh?"
The male cop taps his hands on the steering wheel and replies, "Yeah, messed up. He was just...uh 46 or something. Had a heart attack and fell down the steps. What a shame."
He taps some more as he says, "I hear his brother's going to take over his real estate business and it'll be like he never existed."
"No, dummy. Brother-in-law from the previous marriage. This was his, uh...3rd marriage. Whoa."
She takes another drag and adds, "I dunno, he didn't seem like a bad guy, but who knows."
The male cop removes a few pieces of dirt and lint from his uniform. "What about the kid? She's not even Eunice's and they didn't seem close from what I've heard. I can't imagine what she's been through."
She shrugs, "Eh, what can you do? You can't control the heart, huh?"
She shakes her head and says, "Anyway, she's freakin' 17. Another few months, she'll be headed off to college. Thank god for that."
She looks out of the window and sees the paramedic and nurse carrying another patient into the hospital. "Welp, good luck to her. I'd like to say it's been fun, but it hasn't."
The cop coughs for a bit and then clears her throat, "She was a bit of a brat, anyway."
She takes yet another puff from her cigarette and continues, "Busted her with some marijuana when she was 15, y'know. Heh." She chuckles a bit as she goes on, "Kids these days."
The male cop looks over and asks, "Busted or 'busted'?"
The female cop responds, "Heh, don't play smart with me."
The male cop grins and replies, "Hey. I'm just upholding the law and making my quota. Sometimes...you gotta think outside the box." He laughs as he checks himself out in the rearview mirror.
He looks over at his partner and says, "Anyway, let's get in there and talk to that crazy chick. After that, I want lunch. I'm craving a burger. Extra pickles."
She rolls her eyes and lets out an exasperated sigh, "Yeah, yeah. I know, I know. Get your fat ass moving."
He chuckles and shakes his head, "Yes, ma'am."
The female cop tosses her cigarette onto the ground, "Time to do what we do best," she says to herself.
She sighs and gets out of the car. Her partner follows suit as they walk towards the hospital.
The male cop pulls some coins out from his pocket and counts them, "Hmmm, nice," he says as he contemplates what to grab from the hospital's numerous vending machines.
He mumbles to himself, "Twix? Nah. Baby Ruth, maybe?"
The female cop just shakes her head and puts her hands in her pockets as she walks along, keeping in step with her partner.
She asks the receptionist, "Plaintry PD. Here for the drunk driver who rammed her car into the Nimbus building."
The baggy-eyed receptionist taps a few keys on the keyboard and dryly responds, "Room 204. Take the elevator to the 2nd floor and head to the east wing. She's in surgery right now, but should be out shortly."
The female cop nods and she gets onto the elevator and takes it to the 2nd floor, her partner kneeling down and tying his shoe laces as the elevator slowly ascends.
The elevator song doesn't get any more elevator-songy than elevator songs get. Just some generic loop that no one bothers listening to.
She gets off the elevator and takes a left. She makes it to the east wing and heads towards Room 204.
He follows behind, adjusting his belt and brushing his hair. She stops right outside the room and sighs. She puts her hand on the doorknob and turns it.
She peers inside and sees a dark-skinned man in a white coat. She quietly enters and walks up to the man, with her partner tailing behind.
"Hello, officers. I'm Dr. Sandoval. I'm the one in charge of Ms. Annette here. A nasty crash, but it could've been worse. Minor bruises. The cuts are mostly superficial. There's some internal bleeding. She's just out of surgery and we're prepping her for another, right now."
The male officer scratches his chin and says, "We'll need to speak with her as soon as possible."
The doctor adjusts his glasses and replies, "That won't be possible. She's clearly in no condition to speak. We've just flushed all the alcohol out of her system."
He taps his foot against the floor as he continues, "You'll have to wait for a few hours at least."
The female cop responds, "Well, is there any way you can wake her up now or something? Give her like an adrenaline shot or--"
The doctor's eyebrows shoot up and he interjects, "My god! That is absolutely preposterous! It's not that simple! This woman has been drinking alcohol since the morning and she's clearly in no state to answer any questions. Your suggestion would be a violation of numerous ethical codes!"
He puts his hands up in front of him, "If you wake her up now, she'd be confused, disoriented and she'd likely go into shock. Do you really want to put her life in jeopardy because you people can't wait a few hours?!"
She glares at the doctor and snaps, "This is a very delicate matter and--"
The doctor interrupts her again, "Yes, I KNOW it's a very delicate matter. And we are working on it as we speak, but I don't think it's THAT urgent, is it?"
He pokes the male cop with his pen and adds, "Don't you have some paperwork to fill out or something?"
The male cop sneers, "Do that again and I'll have you arrested for assaulting an officer of the law." He walks right up to Dr. Sandoval's face. He's much larger than the doctor.
He says, "We have some questions to ask this woman and you're not gonna stop us."
The doctor scoffs, "You think I'm intimidated by you? I've witnessed your...handiwork before. I know what you did to that poor homeless guy a month back. I--"
Just then, a nurse walks in with a trolley full of medical tools, liquids, and pills and puts them on a nearby desk, "It's ready, Dr. Sandoval."
He puts his hand on the trolley and pushes it to the side. "We're ready for the next procedure when you are, doctor," he says, completely unaware of the tense atmosphere in the room.
Dr. Sandoval grunts and brushes past the male cop. He walks up to Annette's bed and grabs some items on the trolley.
He looks over to the female cop and says, "Please. Leave the room. You will be informed once she wakes up. Thank you, officers." He says that last part as if it's the most vomit-inducing thing he's ever said.
She looks over to the male cop and nods her head. They both leave the room and grab a seat nearby. They watch the clock, anxiously waiting for their "suspect" to come around.
There is a look of bitterness and rage on the male cop's face. He squares his jaw and curses under his breath. His fists are clenched tight.
The female cop notices this and puts her hand on his shoulder. "Easy, tiger. Easy. No need to blow a gasket," she says as she keeps a firm grip on his shoulder.
He grunts, "This is gettin' outta hand! We gotta let Eunice know. She needs to put some heat on these fuckin' people!"
He goes on, "I mean, hell! She's scary and all, but it's our asses on the line, too!"
She gives him a stern look and sighs, "You wanna talk to freakin' Eunice about this, be my guest. She barely talks to us, remember? Remember how she turned down free drinks on trivia night? Who turns down FREE drinks on trivia night, huh?"
She shakes her head and continues, "Naw, we'll just let her handle this on HER OWN, yeah?"
He just sighs and shakes his head. "Sheesh, she...she creeps me the fuck out," he says as a look of slight dread washes over his face.
She just nods and continues to keep her firm grip on his tensed-up shoulder.
About 2 hours pass by and Annette groans. She's moving, her vision's blurry, she's rolling around, her ears are ringing. Her eyes flutter open and 2 figures stand on either side of her creaky hospital bed.
She can't quite make out who they are, but she's sure they're cops.
"Ughhhh, what the fuck happened?" she asks as she tries to sit up.
The female cop responds, "I'm officer Jenn. This is officer Neil," she says as she points over to her partner.
Officer Jenn is in her late-30s. Her black hair is short and cropped. Her brown eyes look at Annette with a mixture of annoyance and boredom. She's a little overweight, but not by much. She's wearing a standard-issue Plaintry PD uniform.
Officer Neil is in his mid-40s, with salt and pepper hair. His face is wrinkled and his eyes are a dull blue. His muscles are well-defined, but his gut is starting to show. He's also wearing a police uniform, like his partner.
He places his hands on his hips, looks over to Annette and says, "We have a few questions for you, miss."
Annette feels the bandages on her head, her arms, and her legs. She groans and asks, "What the fuck happened? Why am I in a hospital? What happened to my car?"
She looks around and says, "And WHY am I in handcuffs?!"
Officer Neil rolls his eyes and lightly groans, while Officer Jenn bluntly tells Annette, "You crashed your car into the Nimbus building. You were drunk and you caused property damage. So, you're under arrest."
She adds, "After you're discharged, you'll be taken to the station and booked. Then, you'll be arraigned. You'll probably get a fine and mandatory community service."
She then adds, "Unless you got any priors, in which case, you'll probably be doing some time. Also, you're definitely gonna want to look into the program for drunk drivers. You're lucky you didn't kill anyone."
She shrugs and says, "That's all I can tell you, miss."
She pulls out a notebook and pen and starts jotting down notes.
Officer Neil adds, "You're lucky we got there in time."
He narrows his eyes and leans in a bit closer to Annette, "Hey. Wait a sec! You're the woman from THAT video! The one who got into an argument with that redhead! Yeah, yeah. I remember now!"
He grins and says, "I KNEW you looked familiar. I've seen your face all over Facebook! Haha! You're famous!"
He chuckles to himself. He stops and says, "What you did...was fucked up, miss. I was planning on voting for Bernice, but after that stunt you pulled, I'm voting for another term for our guy. Y'know, the one who's not a complete slut!"
He laughs to himself and says, "Heh, I can't believe you actually did that! You're nuts!"
He chortles some more. He looks over to his partner and says, "I can't believe this chick is the one who started all of this!"
Jenn clears her throat as if indicating that she wants her partner to shut up.
She asks Annette, "So, what happened? Why'd you crash your car into the Nimbus building? What's your story?"
Annette groans and struggles to find a comfy position. She sighs and says, "They're selling Nimbus. Those sons of bitches. I--I probably shouldn't be saying this, b...but, they're gonna make some serious changes. I'm outta a job. I--I just wanted to get some answers."
She adds, "I was pissed off. I wasn't thinking straight. I had a bottle of wine in the car and I was feeling...really, really bad."
She lets out a deep sigh and says, "I...it's--"
Officer Jenn leans in closer to hear what Annette's trying to say. She blandly says, "Sure. Take your time."
Annette gulps and gasps, "It's...all Maya's fault! She...she's the reason I lost my job! She's the reason I'm here!" She cries out, "I hate her! I hate her so FUCKING much! I wish she was dead!"
Little did she know.
Officer Jenn raises her eyebrows and glances over to her partner. She looks back at Annette and says, "Well, that's certainly...interesting."
She adds, "Just...get some more rest. We're done here. Neil? Anything else you wanna add?"
He shakes his head as he can hear his stomach growling.
"Let's go." She turns to leave, but Annette grabs her by the wrist. "Wait! Wait, wait, wait!" she says as she tries to pull herself up.
Officer Jenn turns around and looks at Annette with a puzzled expression.
"Arrest Maya. S...she started all this! It--it's not fair th--that she gets to walk away free while I'm stuck here!"
She looks over to Officer Neil and pleads, "Y...you saw the video, right? You know what she did! She's a bitch!"
Officer Neil chuckles and shakes his head, "I saw what she SAID. I didn't see her DOING anything, princess."
He adds, "But, I don't think you're in any position to be making demands, missy. You're the one who's probably gonna be doing time, not her."
He pats Annette on the head and says, "Now, you just lay back down and let the big kids take care of things, OK?"
Annette looks at him with a look of contempt and anger. He maintains his look of smugness, knowing full well that he and his partner have the upper hand. Jenn pulls her arm away from Annette and walks towards the door. Neil follows suit.
Annette watches as they leave. She lays back down and groans. She puts her hand on her face and lets out a deep sigh.
As the duo are leaving, the loudspeaker goes off: "Dr. Sandoval to Radiology. Dr. Sandoval to Radiology." They hear the voice over the loudspeaker and turn around. They see the doctor rushing down the hallway, nearly bumping into them.
He doesn't bother with an apology and keeps running.
They look at each other and shrug.
Neil says, "Let's get outta here. I'm starving."
Jenn says, "You go on ahead. I gotta use the ladies' room." She heads off to the bathroom, while Neil makes his way to the elevator. He presses the button and waits for the elevator to arrive.
The elevator music plays as he waits, hands clasped behind his back.
He looks around and sees a few nurses and doctors walking around. He also sees a janitor mopping the floor. He looks over to the vending machines and contemplates his snack options.
He shrugs, "Ah. What the hell. A little appetizer never hurt anyone." He grins as he heads over to the vending machine. He pulls out his wallet and takes out a few coins. He inserts the coins and selects his snack. He waits for the snack to fall down.
It falls down, but it gets stuck.
"Fuck!" he mutters under his breath, but not silent enough to not be heard by the a little boy sitting nearby. The boy holds back a chuckle. He then starts kicking the machine.
The janitor looks over and sighs. He scoffs, "What, the vending machine resisting arrest or something? Hah!" He goes back to mopping the floor.
Neil kicks the machine again, but this time, it works. The candy bar falls down. He picks it up and furiously tears the wrapper open. He throws the wrapper into the bin, but it falls to the floor.
As he's walking away, the little boy calls out, "Hey! Mister! No littering!"
Neil turns around and glares at the boy. He walks up to him and grunts, "Hmph." He kneels down and picks up the wrapper.
The janitor chuckles and tells the little boy, "Even cops ain't above the law. Keep that in mind, kiddo. Now, why don't you get something nice for yourself, huh?" The janitor hands the kid a coin.
The boy nods and runs off.
Neil crumples the wrapper into a ball and tosses it into the bin. He walks away, shaking his head, "Bastards."
Meanwhile, Jenn finds her way to the bathroom after nearly taking a wrong turn. The signage in this place could use some work. She opens the door and enters the bathroom. She walks over to the sink and looks at herself in the mirror.
She sighs and mutters, "Damn, what a day. What. A. Day."
She opens one of the toilet doors and sits down. She sighs and thinks about the events of the day. She thinks about how she's going to deal with Eunice and the mess that Annette's made.
She thinks about how she's going to get home and what she's going to do when she gets there.
The very thought of Eunice scares her, and for good reason. She knows what she's capable of. She knows what she's done. She knows what Eunice is capable of doing.
But even then, she doesn't know the whole story about Eunice, the Malkavian Sheriff of Plaintry.
It all started in the 1970s, when Eunice was just a rookie cop, walking the beat in a big city. She was a bit of a hothead and didn't like to follow orders. She had a bit of a temper and would often get into fights.
Her psych eval profile was the thing of nightmares. Internal Affairs gave her the nickname, "Miss Discharge" because of her frequent use of excessive force and (overuse) of firearms. Of course, they never said it to her face.
She was always on the verge of getting fired, but somehow, she always managed to keep her job. She had the police union to thank for that.
She was known for her result-oriented brutality and her ruthlessness, but there was something not...quite right with her. She was a bit too...calm. Too cool. Too collected.
Too methodical in her dispensing of state-sanctioned violence.
There were rumors that she had killed a teenager, but no one knew for sure. And if she did, she never got caught. The specifics remain unknown and the only potential witness was found hung upside down in a meat locker, with his throat slit and his guts hanging out.
Likely the doing of her Sire, Absalom. An unaffiliated Elder who ran the local Blood Bank. He was a quiet, but intimidating man. He was always analyzing, calculating, and observing, but there was something off about him too.
Something that didn't feel right. The way he moved, the way he talked and the way he looked at people left them shaking in their boots.
Absalom had a way of making people feel uneasy. Like he was looking right through them. Like he knew everything about them. It was like he could see into their very souls, past the façade of whatever mask they were wearing at the time.
He had been stalking the cop for almost a year. Peering through holes in walls, trailing her, disguising himself, and so on.
He was always watching her as she made her rounds, waiting for the perfect opportunity to strike.
And then one night, he got his chance. She was walking the beat, as usual, when she came across a mugging in progress. In usual, Eunice style, she shot the mugger dead as some of his blood splattered onto the victim's face.
Absalom saw this and took his chance. He struck down the mugging victim with one swift, violent swipe of his claws, knocking her down to the ground and causing her to scream out in pain and agony.
He took his sweet time savoring her terror as she lay there, bleeding out.
Eunice gasped, and started to empty rounds into him, but it was no use. Absalom was just too powerful, too swift, and too experienced.
He rushed Eunice like a maddened bull charging through and knocked her down as she dropped her weapon, landing on her face and causing her to bleed from her mouth and nose.
He smiled as he stood over her and said in his deep and authoritative voice, "I have chosen you." He grinned, revealing his razor-sharp fangs, and continued, "Chosen, you now are."
Even till today, Eunice has no idea what the hell he meant by that. A week after her Embrace, he left the country, thus forcing Eunice into the "care" of the other Malkavians of the city.
They were...weird, all of them in tune with the Malkavian Madness Network- the psychic link shared by all Jesters.
But they somehow managed to teach Eunice well. They also shared their bizarre conspiracies and theories with her. Most of which she dismissed out of hand as the ramblings of maniacs.
As such, she didn't like associating herself with the other Malkavians as much as possible.
But they did manage to teach her a few useful things, in the midst of their rants about Scandinavian aliens on mechanized horses, like how to keep the Beast at bay, and how to focus your Willpower, the energy of the Kindred, and channelling it into various Disciplines.
They also gave her a crash course in Thaumaturgy, before spending hours rambling about reptile dogs speaking Sanskrit, so she could channel the powers of the Blood itself to use as a weapon against her foes.
Not that she ever needed to. She was good with her fists (and guns!). She also managed to pick up a thing or 2 about Ventrue Disciplines during her travels throughout the American Northeast.
Although, she started to slowly "tune-out" of the Malkavian Madness Network as time went on (but a complete tune-out is nigh impossible for a Malkavian).
Her marriage, how she came to be Sheriff of Plaintry, and the rest is best reserved for another night.
Back to the ladies' room...
Officer Jenn flushes the toilet. As she's washing her hands, the paramedic from earlier in the morning comes in. She looks exhausted, her eyes are heavy. Jenn looks over to her and says nothing.
The paramedic just grunts and goes over to a sink. She throws water on her face and stares into the mirror, expressionless.
Jenn looks around to make sure no one else is in the bathroom. She then grabs the paramedic's head and slams it into the wall, "You got some fuckin' nerve talkin' to my partner like that in the morning."
The paramedic struggles, but Jenn tightens her grip. The paramedic grits her teeth, "What...what're you talking about?!" she sputters in an angry tone. "I...I--"
Jenn grits her teeth, "Shut up, bitch! If you know what's good for you, you'll stay quiet, ya hear??"
The paramedic groans.
She's too weak to resist, but she still tries anyway.
"Listen up, you saw nothing that night? Understood?!"
The paramedic groans and tries to wiggle free but it is to no avail. The paramedic lets out a soft cry, but Jenn ignores it. "And just so we're clear, I could have you arrested on drug possession with intent to distribute."
Jenn clicks her tongue in mockery, "Would be a shame for such an outstanding citizen like yourself to be caught with some pot. It'd be even worse if you were smoking that stuff on the job. Heh heh. Yup, sure would be."
She spits in the paramedic's face and shoves her down onto the floor, "We didn't have this...talk. You saw nothing that night. And if you want to stay healthy and free, you'll keep seeing nothing."
Jenn walks out of the bathroom and goes over to her partner.
"Where the hell you been? I'm fuckin' starvin' here," Neil says, a half-munched chocolate bar in his hand.
The duo make their way to the elevator and press the button. They wait for the elevator to arrive. The elevator music plays as they wait.
The ding of the elevator is heard as the doors slide open.
Jenn adjusts her belt and walks in, "Let's get the hell outta here."
Neil says, "But first, we gotta talk to some of the employees over at Nimbus and see if any of them saw what happened with Annette."
He adds, "Then we grab burgers."
Jenn shakes her head, "Fine. Let's go get their statements," she says with a sigh. She pulls out another cigarette as the elevator descends. They exit the elevator and head outside to where their car is parked.
Jenn pulls out a lighter and clicks it a few times.
"Fuck, outta gas," she sneers as she puts it back in her pocket. "God fucking dammit," she mutters to herself.
She looks around to see if there are any ways to light a cig or anyone around to help an officer of the law with her Loosey.
"Damn, that sucks," Neil remarks. "Welp, c'mon, let's go talk to those schlubs over at Nimbus," he adds as he starts the car up.
The car's engine roars to life.
She shakes her head and grunts. "Fine. Fine. Coming," she repeats to herself. "Damn, I really needed one right about now." Her hands start to shake, but only slightly.
They drive over to the Nimbus building. It looks...the same. Well, except for the medium-sized hole that a certain somebody's car made.
As they walk into the building, they are greeted by a receptionist. A thin woman, in her mid 30s. She looks very, very tired. The dark circles under her eyes are visible even with her glasses on.
Officer Neil starts first, "We're here to collect witness statements and ask some questions," he says with a neutral expression. Jenn pulls out a pad of paper and a pen, ready to take notes.
"Uh...OK," the woman responds as she takes off her glasses and rubs her eyes.
"Um, lemme see. I was here, texting my ex when I saw the car hit the building." She starts to recall the events as best as she can.
Jenn nods, "That's a good start," she says, waiting to jot down anything useful.
Neil says, "Thank you for your time. Do you know where the manager is?"
The receptionist sighs, "That would be Edgar. He's up to his neck in paperwork and is in a conference call at the moment, though. You'd better wait."
Neil rolls his eyes, "Not gonna happen. Anyways, thanks. You've been...helpful."
Jenn nods to the woman, then to Neil, "Let's go talk to Edgar."
The duo make their way towards a small side room that's behind the receptionist's desk. Inside is a large room with a single conference table, a water cooler, and a large TV screen mounted on the wall.
The label on the door reads: "Conference Room 1". It's in Garamond Font.
Muffled voices can be heard arguing back and forth.
Neil, feeling quite hungry, impatiently knocks on the door, "Excuse me?" he says in his deepest and most authoritative voice.
Jenn says, "Plaintry PD. We have a few questions to ask."
The arguing stops, and one of the voices, clearly Edgar's, says, "Give us a few minutes, please!"
Jenn sighs and shakes her head. Neil grunts and throws his hands in the air in annoyance. Jenn rolls her eyes and says, "We know that this is a busy time for all of you, but this is important."
Edgar responds, "FIVE MINUTES, damnit! Please! I...just let us finish up!"
The voices start to argue again. Neil shrugs and starts pacing back and forth, while Jenn sighs in resignation and leans against the wall, pen still in her hand, notebook still open.
After 7 minutes pass, Edgar comes out of the room, looking rather annoyed and flustered.
He sees Jenn and Neil standing there and lets out a loud sigh, "I am SO sorry about that, officers. As you can see, Nimbus is...in quite a state of turmoil," he says as he straightens his posture.
Neil shrugs and says, "I dunno. Looks the same to me."
Jenn says, "So...Edgar? Is that correct?"
"Yes. Chief Editor and Manager. At least for the time being," he ruefully says.
"Well, we'd like to get your account of the crash from earlier in the morning," Neil says with a hint of irritation.
Edgar sighs again, "Ah, of course. I...didn't see a thing. When Annette left, she was visibly disappointed about certain changes being made."
He says, "But she didn't seem drunk to me. I--I didn't even know she was drinking. It must've been recent, with the argument and all."
Jenn asks, with her pen poised over her notebook. "And how did you feel about her...employment at Nimbus?"
Edgar sighs and pensively says, "She was a damn good employee, if you ignore her drinking problem and...recent outburst."
He then adds, "It's just that...I--I didn't have any other options, to be frank."
Jenn looks down at her notes and says, "Uh-huh."
Neil interjects, "And tell us more about your other employee, Maya. Y'know, she and Annette were in an argument yesterday," he says.
"Did she and Annette...have history together?" Jenn adds.
Edgar says, "They were the best of friends. Practically inseparable. Which makes their...falling-out all the more shocking. I don't want to go over what happened, officers. It was traumatic for both of them."
Neil chuckles, "Oh, I saw the video of those 2...exchanging words. You need better standards for your magazine," he says with a grin.
Jenn clears her throat, "Anyway, thank you for your time, Mr. Edgar. If there's anything else you remember, please don't hesitate to give us a call. Also, will you be pressing charges?"
"Against...Annette? I can't. I mean...I'll need some time to think about it," he says with a defeated tone.
Neil says, "Why not? She rammed into your building."
Edgar dismisses that and says, "It could've been worse."
Just then, both his phones ring. He heaves a deep sigh and says, "Apologies, but I REALLY need to get this," as he holds up both his phones and walks away.
He answers one of them (the more important call) and says, "Yes, I understand, it's going to take some time, yes, yes, yes. No, no, no. Not at all. Yes, Mr. Cross. I understand. Th--thank you."
As Edgar's walking away, Jenn whispers to her partner, "Let's grab some lunch. We've done what we could here."
Neil shrugs, "It's been a long day."
The officers walk away to their car and make their way to the closest diner serving burgers. Extra pickles for Neil and no mayo for Jenn.
The duo sit back and enjoy their meal as they watch the town go about its day from the partially stained window.
A few hours pass by. The sun's high in the sky and it's still as bright as ever. But, as always, things in Plaintry go on as usual- despite what's happened, of course.
Or what's about to happen.
Meanwhile, at a small bed and breakfast, our 4 unknown travelers from afar have settled in comfortably.
Anja has the covers over her head. Her eyes are watering, she's groaning, she's tired. She tries her best to suppress her crying.
Gunnar is in the bathroom, loudly vomiting into the toilet. Clearly, American beer doesn't seem to be agreeing with him. Or maybe it's the other way around?
Emi sits on the bed, relaxed. She holds one phone in her hand, while another is on her lap. She's frantically typing away on the virtual keyboard, a mixed look of frustration and concern on her face.
Last but not least, Torvald is sitting on the floor, cross-legged. His long hair is untied and his eyes are closed. He's still as a statue and deep in meditation.
Emi speaks up and asks, "Any of you see a pair of smart glasses? I had to put it in that basket at customs along with its case, but now it's missing. Do any of you know what happened to it?" She looks at the 2 of them in the room.
They say nothing.
"HEY! It is a very expensive piece of technology!"
Torvald breaths in and out, eyes still closed, a gentle smile on his face.
Anja groans and pulls the covers tighter around herself. Her eyes are still watering, her breathing is irregular. She sniffles a bit and tries her best to remain quiet. She takes a few deep breaths, but to no avail.
Gunnar can't hear anything and is completely oblivious to the situation as his vomiting is still loud and consistent.
Torvald takes a deep breath, holds it, and lets it out, all in a single, fluid motion. His eyes slowly open. He looks at Emi and smiles, "You were saying?"
"My smart glasses? You know, the one I showed you on the plane? Where are they?"
Anja groans, "You mean the one you wouldn't shut up about?"
"Well, I...I'm in touch with a helpline but they just keep sending me in circles," Emi says as she pouts and throws her arms in the air.
Gunnar's stomach still hurts, but he feels better after vomiting a bit. He flushes the toilet, throws some water on his face, and walks out the bathroom.
"Good morning," he declares, his face still a bit green.
Torvald calmly replies, "Good afternoon, Gunnar."
Gunnar's jaw hangs open, "Hmph?! What? Afternoon already? Gods have mercy! How long were we sleeping?"
"A much needed rest," Torvald replies, with a slight hint of worry in his voice.
Gunnar looks at Torvald, a confused expression on his face, "W...well we--we got work to do! The others should be here soon. We can't just sit around all day!"
Anja's been silent, but her groans have been getting louder and louder.
"We're going to be in this town for a while," Emi says, with a hint of exhaustion in her voice.
She continues, "Oh, Gunnar?"
"Yes, cub?"
"Ugh. That again? Never mind. Have you seen my smart glasses? Remember, you wore them on the plane and took a few funny pictures to share with friends. You said it gave you a headache. They're really expensive and--"
Anja's groans have given way to quiet whimpers, "Emi?!"
Emi is startled and jumps in her bed a bit.
"For god's sake, Emi! Isn't it obvious what has happened? Those thieves at the airport customs stole your 'smart' glasses. Don't expect a response from whoever it is you've been bothering for hours. I seriously do not understand your kind's fascination with technology," Anja spurts out, her face showing slight contempt.
Torvald interjects, "Calm now. Calm now."
Emi has a look of disappointment on her face, so she throws the phone to her lap and folds her arms, sulking. "I really liked those. It was a gift from my uncle and aunty."
Gunnar squeezes Emi's shoulder, "Don't worry. I'm sure we can find you another one."
Emi looks up, a glimmer of hope in her eyes, "R--Really?"
Gunnar smiles at her and nods, despite reeking of vomit and beer.
"Oh. Well, I suppose there's a tech store somewhere in this town," Emi responds, a little unsure.
Anja groans, "We have much more important things to do."
Gunnar responds, "Yes. My patience is wearing thin. Where are the others, Torvald? What are they doing?"
Torvald takes a deep breath, and breathes in, out, and then finally answers, "They're on their way."
Gunnar scoffs and walks over to the window, "It yearns to be let out. To cleanse these lands of all that is unclean."
Torvald opens his eyes and stands, "We're going to have a very long day. How about we look around this little town for a few hours? Hmmmm? Maybe buy a few supplies and food?"
Anja's groaning has subsided and she's laying quietly. She seems to have fallen asleep.
Torvald looks at Gunnar, then to Anja, then back to Gunnar, and finally says, "Emi? What do you say?"
Emi raises her eyebrows, "You're the leader, Torvald. You...decide. We simply follow."
Torvald shrugs, "Let's get dressed."
Emi points over and whispers, "What about Anja?"
Torvald cracks a quick smile, "I will speak with her."
Gunnar burps, "Sorry. Anyway, bathroom is all yours, Emi. Sorry about the smell."
Emi quickly hops up, grabs one of her phones and goes into the bathroom. Torvald takes a few steps and closes the curtains.
"How is she, Torvald?" Gunnar asks as he beckons over to Anja.
Torvald sighs, "She's still in mourning, Gunnar. It hasn't even been a year since she lost him. She still hasn't recovered from that. I don't think she ever will. We can't force her."
Gunnar grunts and shrugs, "But is she fit to do what needs to be done in these tainted lands?"
Torvald sternly replies, "I am confident in her abilities. I would not have picked her otherwise. She's...skilled."
"We could use 'skilled'."
"Yes."
Emi screams out from the bathroom, "UGH! What is that smell! Gunnar! Did you even flush!"
Gunnar scratches the back of his head, "S--Sorry, Emi! It...it was that beer. It appears that American beer and Gunnar do not agree."
He pauses for a few seconds and continues, "And yet I want more of it! A whole barrel of it!"
Emi sighs and walks out of the bathroom. "Now I understand why they don't allow drinking to those under 21."
Torvald chuckles.
An hour passes and the 4 are all ready. They take one final look at each other, and the room, before walking out of the door. The door closes behind them.
They take the stairs down and step outside. There are several cars parked in a line. A few people are around, standing around their own cars, talking amongst each other.
Torvald is wearing a plaid shirt and denim jeans. His hair is tied into a bun.
Anja is wearing a short-sleeve top and denim shorts along with a fanny pack. She still looks tired.
Gunnar is wearing a solid blue button-down shirt and cargo pants.
Emi is wearing a gray T-shirt and dungarees, along with a large black backpack.
Gunnar looks over to Emi and asks, "Emi? What's that you're wearing?"
Emi looks down at herself and responds, "Huh? I mean, this? Isn't it what Americans wear?"
Torvald chuckles, "Only in movies and TV shows, Emi."
"Oh," Emi says, still unsure.
"So, where to now?" Anja asks as she squints her eyes and looks at the bright sun overhead.
Torvald closes his eyes for a few seconds and then says, "We should...get a feel for this place. I've already sent a message telling the others where to meet us."
Emi eagerly asks, "And? What did they say?"
"They'll be here in an hour or so."
Gunnar cracks his knuckles, "Good!"
"About time," Anja coldly says.
They walk out of the BNB and onto the busy streets of Plaintry. They walk down the sidewalk and look around the town, taking it all in. The townspeople give them odd looks as they pass them by.
Emi awkwardly waves and smiles at nearly everyone she comes across.
"Konnichiwa (JP: Good Afternoon)," she says to a construction crew. They tip their hats and smile at her.
The middle of the town itself is pretty much just a large intersection, surrounded by houses and other buildings. The roads are lined with street lights, the sidewalks with wooden planters, and the ground is covered in old asphalt.
The afternoon sun shines brightly overhead, lighting up the sky.
Anja sighs and closes her eyes, for a moment, enjoying the gentle warmth of the sun.
Torvald looks at a few of the buildings, the brick walls covered with vines, the wooden doors, the metal bars. He simply says to himself, "Tainted. Corrupted. Impure."
Gunnar walks ahead of them, towards a group of teenagers, who are wearing band T-shirts, their faces painted. They're laughing as they listen to music from their loudspeaker. They're sitting on the sidewalk, feet kicked up and heads leaned back.
Gunnar walks up to them, a big grin on his face. He can't help but be enticed by the loud music.
Anja and Emi watch him as he approaches the teenagers, a little bit nervously.
Emi excuses herself to a nearby public restroom, while Anja adjusts her black-rimmed glasses and continues walking.
Gunnar walks up to the group and starts dancing. The teenagers all look over, curious. One of the girls starts laughing uncontrollably.
Torvald goes over to Anja and asks, "Are you alright, Anja? You've barely spoken since we've landed. You are ready for what comes next?"
Anja takes a deep breath and replies, "I am fine, Torvald. I am...fine. And yes, Torvald. I'm ready."
Torvald gently nods, "Good. Just remember, you are not alone, Anja. You are not the only one who has lost someone to those...things." He looks at her with a look of concern in his eyes.
He gently squeezes her hand, giving it a slight shake.
She looks at him, with a mixture of surprise and slight frustration in her eyes, "The wait is what frustrates me, Torvald. The waiting and the lack of action. The time wasted."
He nods, "Yes, but it's also been a good time to heal. To recover."
Anja scoffs, "Heal from what? What could possibly have healed me after...that?" she whispers, her eyes welling up a bit.
Torvald gently smiles at her, "Your pain will fade. Your suffering will end. One day. Perhaps not soon, but it will come."
Anja grimly replies, "Only the fury I unleash on our enemies will ease my suffering."
Torvald lets go of her hand, "Hmph. There...is no arguing with that." He shrugs and walks ahead.
She then grabs a tight hold of his arm, pulls him closer, and asks, "Torvald, ever since our departure from Japan, why have you been...vague?"
He looks at her with a look of slight concern, "Vague? What do you mean?"
Anja groans and looks away for a second, then looks back at him and says, "Torvald, you have not given us all the details. You haven't told us why we are even in this country, where you have been for these past months, who it was that paid for the plane tickets, and so on."
"It's--" he begins to say, but Emi interrupts, "Torvald! I just had the most strange encounter."
She pauses and notices Anja gripping Torvald's arm, "Oh, am I...interrupting something?" She looks at them suspiciously.
Torvald gently removes Anja's hand from his arm and says, "It's nothing, Emi. Now, tell us more."
Emi starts, "There was this small child who...accosted me as I was leaving the restroom. He just wouldn't stop starting at my face."
Torvald smirks while Anja just stares at her, not amused.
Emi continues, "So, I greeted him. And then, he asked me whether I was Chinese. Of course, I told him I'm Japanese."
Torvald nods and Emi continues, "Then the boy asked me if Japan was in China! I told him no and he just stood there, silent. Then, he started asking me about China."
"What did you say?" Torvald asks, a bit amused.
Emi says, "I told him that China is very different from Japan and that he should pay more attention in school."
Torvald chuckles while Anja groans, "Hmph. Pathetic."
Emi says, "It's...so sad, really. People in this small town don't really know much about the outside world." She frowns and adds, "This is a deprived place, Torvald."
Torvald sighs and nods, "Perhaps so. It's also a tainted place, Emi. Let us not forget our purpose here."
He looks over to Gunnar dancing with the group of teenagers and says, "Come, let us go and witness Gunnar making a fool out of himself." He chuckles while Emi follows along.
Anja looks at him with an eyebrow raised, but doesn't say anything. She takes off her glasses and wipes it with a cloth. She puts them back on and starts walking to catch up to them.
Torvald sees her walking behind and says, "Ah, there you are. I believe we were in the middle of a...conversation before we got interrupted."
Anja nods and looks around the town, "The more I see of this place, the more I'm convinced that it is beyond saving."
She chuckles, "Not that there was much worth saving in a town like this, anyway," she says as she waves her hands around, "And it's all so...dreary and lifeless- the same thing repeated over and over."
Torvald softly sighs and responds, "I knew you'd say something like that, Anja. But there is still time to do what is right. While strength and life courses through our bodies, we still have the opportunity to destroy the corruption sweeping the land. It's never too late, Anja."
He pauses for a few seconds before continuing, "Never. We're here for a purpose."
She stops in her tracks, turns to him and says, "Yes, Torvald. It's all for a reason. You've told us as much. It's just that...you've been secretive about the rest." Her tone is still as serious as ever.
"It's not my intention to keep anything from you, Emi, and Gunnar."
He pauses for a few seconds before continuing, "After our...sacred task is complete, I will tell you more. You have my word."
"That doesn't exactly help me feel better, Torvald. There are still so many unanswered questions. For instance, who exactly was this person you have been working for and what exactly did they want with you? Or the others?"
"In time, Anja. In time. Right now, I just want to enjoy this moment. You know, take it all in." He flashes her a quick smile.
Anja looks at him and shrugs, "Alright, Torvald. Fine. But, please do answer these questions sooner rather than later, alright?"
Torvald gently nods.
They make their way to Gunnar speaking with the teenagers. Emi stands besides him, phone in hand, watching him as he talks to them. He laughs along and smiles with them.
Anja walks behind them, arms crossed, a look of contempt on her face. She's not amused by these...delays and unnecessary diversions.
Torvald warmly greets the teens.
"Oooo, that's a funny accent, mister!" One of the girls giggles, while another one responds, "Hey, shhhhh! Don't say that!"
Gunnar replies with a smile on his face, "These are my friends. That's Torvald. This is Emi and that is Anja."
The group waves and greets Torvald and Anja in unison. They start talking to Torvald. One of them asks, "So, where are you from?"
Torvald laughs and says, "The Netherlands. But, I've spent the past 6 years in Japan."
"Japan? Wow. What's it like there?" another one of the boys asks.
Torvald replies, "It's...acceptable."
The same boy asks, "Where are you from, Gunnar??"
Gunnar almost screams out, "Deutschland!" as he places his hands on his hips and looks to the side, "But I have been in Japan for some time as well."
"Why are you all here?" a girl asks.
Torvald replies, "We're on a...vacation of sorts." He grins, "Our friend Emi won an all expenses paid trip to America in a robotics contest." He looks to Emi, who has her phone out, texting.
She quickly puts her phone away and joins in the conversation.
The girl replies, "That's...nice. Also, I like your purple streaks, Emi. Do you do yours?"
Emi smiles, "Oh, this? I had it done back in Japan before I left."
The girl gasps and her mouth opens wide in shock, "No way! I wish this town had better salons."
Torvald looks around the street, observing the locals. Many look old, weary, and worn down.
One of the boys asks, "So, what kinda contest you win, Emi?"
Torvald interjects, "A long story. One we'd rather not discuss." He looks at Anja, who's standing with her arms crossed and looking around, as if scanning for something (or someone).
He looks back at the teenagers and says, "Shouldn't you be at school or heading home right now?"
They look at each other and shrug, "Eh. Yeah, sure. School's kinda boring lately, anyway. We've got no teachers to teach us and stuff."
Torvald shakes his head, "That's...unfortunate."
The girl sighs, "A lotta teachers. Y'know, ones we really love and can relate to. Like Ms. Clark, who was kinda strict but also really nice to us. We miss her a lot."
Gunnar narrows his eyes, "What happened to this Ms. Clark?"
One of the teenagers gulp as the rest whisper amongst themselves, debating whether to tell these strangers.
"Well...we don't really know all the deets, but--"
"My daddy works in the coroner's office and I overheard him saying she was...uh ex-san-guin-ated."
"Exsanguinated," says another teen with glasses on his face.
The kids shudder in fear.
Gunnar taps Torvald's shoulder and asks, "What do you think?"
Torvald looks around the area and takes in all the details. He nods and says, "I'm sorry for your loss. Did...they ever find out who was responsible for it?"
"Well, nope. My mom works for the local paper and they've got no leads. No anonymous tips, nothing."
"So, the killer has never been found?" Torvald asks with a concerned look on his face.
The kid shrugs, "Nope."
"That is most unfortunate."
"Yeah," one of the kids says. Her phone vibrates, so she quickly checks it, rapidly taps on the screen, and continues, "There's...been other weird stuff happening in this town, too."
"What do you mean?" Gunnar asks.
"Well, ever since I was like...6 years old, there was this neighbor of mine who was like, super into conspiracy theories and crazy stuff. He'd rant about the most randomest shit all the time. Like, there was this one time he rambled on and on about how he knew stuff about stuff. It was kinda funny in a way."
"He was one of those crazies," adds another, dismissively.
"No, no! He wasn't like all those conspiracy nuts on YouTube or something. Besides, it was always super fun to listen to him. And that was...before he went all quiet, anyway. He used to go on and on about all this stuff. About some secret group or something. Maybe it was some secret government group or some weirdo cult or something like that."
"Hmmmm, interesting," Torvald says, standing there and nodding along.
Another teen interrupts, "Anyways! THAT isn't even the weirdest thing in this town!"
The other kids groan, "Oh not this again..."
Torvald and Gunnar beckon the kid to tell them more.
The kid sighs, "OK, so...there was this time when my grandma who is like a 100 years old was in the hospital and she said that some man dressed all in black just came out of nowhere and...and bit her hand!"
Torvald tilts his head, "Bit her hand? That's...odd."
The kid says, "My grandma's not the type to tell tall tales! She swears on her grandma's grave that she saw a man bite down her hand...and...uh make weird slurping sounds. L--Like he was drinking...from her!"
The kids shudder, grimace, and look at each other.
"Look, I'll be fair. My grandma is as old as a freakin' dinosaur but her memory is still as sharp as ever. She doesn't remember much from that night, but it comes and goes, y'know. S...she felt kinda woozy after the whole thing. I wasn't there that night and mom told me she looked pale the next day. She might've just been having a hallucination. Y'know, from the drugs or something."
Anja asks, "Were there any puncture wounds or bite marks on her arms? On her hands?" She quickly walks up to them and starts asking the teens more questions. "Any scars?"
"Uh..." the girl stammers, taken aback by Anja's intensity.
Torvald places his hand on Anja's shoulder, "Easy, Anja. Easy."
The kid replies, "N...no, ma'am. The weird thing is there was nothing on her arms, nothing on her hands. But the strangest thing was that she felt no pain whatsoever when it happened!"
Anja nods, "Hmmmm. Interesting."
Gunnar asks, "Well, what happened to this crazy neighbor of yours? He sounds like he might've seen something."
The teens respond in unison, "Oh yeah, the crazy neighbor? That's what's strange about it. My friend says his house was set on fire."
Another kid adds, "Some nutty militia thugs were arrested a few days later. Funny thing is, they never found any bodies in that house."
"Maybe the body got burnt beyond all recognition? It was a nasty fire and those militia freaks were packing!" another one says. "That was kinda weird, right?"
Gunnar's face is stern as he whispers to Torvald, "This town has witnessed a lot of...unusual happenings. Far too many to be coincidence. It is the taint, is it not? I can feel it even now, creeping closer by the day. It's not long until it has all of these people enslaved to its corruption."
He grunts, "No more of this! No more delaying and waiting. I say we just go out there and tear their heads off. They will know my wrath, and my fury." He tightens his fists.
Torvald looks around the place and says, "I appreciate your enthusiasm, Gunnar. But, we'll...need to be a bit more subtle than that, yes?"
He inclines his head over to the group of teenagers, "Besides, we wouldn't want any innocents getting harmed."
Emi adds, "Yes. Remember what is important, Gunnar."
They go back to conversing with the kids, "You were saying about this neighbor of yours, yes? Did anyone ever see him after that?" Torvald asks.
"Yeah, man, why didn't anyone go and check up on him??" another one adds.
"I think he skipped town or something."
"I don't know where he is. But I wish I did."
"What did those militia weirdos want with him and where'd they get all that expensive-ass looking equipment from?" The kids look at each other, as if debating what to tell these strangers. They shake their heads and look around.
One of the kids speaks up, "Well, uh. We were kinda afraid to ask and our parents said it was none of our business, but--"
"Go on," Torvald urges. He looks at the teens, patiently waiting for them to continue.
The kid gulps and says, "If he's still alive, I...I just hope he's OK. He was always a nice guy. Treated us better than some of our parents did. So, y'know, we just hope he's doin' OK. Vibin', chilling or whatever."
"He meant a lot to you, didn't he? What was his name?"
The kids smile, and Torvald smiles back at them.
"Isaac. We never got a last name and we never could figure it out. He always told us not to bother. Said it was...strange."
Torvald replies, "Well, that's...interesting."
The kid with the glasses adds, "Well, we always saw him during the evening, when we were out riding our bikes or doing other stuff."
The girl adds, "So, there he was, hanging around his front porch, talking to himself."
Another kid adds, "He had weird fashion sense."
"That's the strangest part. It was...like from the 70s or something. He had like, a fur hat and these strange baggy pants, y'know? He even had this shirt with a picture of the moon on it! It was kinda creepy. But not in a bad way, more like a 'wow that's weird and cool' kind of thing."
Torvald's eyes widen, "I...I see. Did he ever say where he was from? What he did for a living?"
"I swear, he mentioned Reddit a lot. And this was waaaaaaay before Reddit was even founded. Uh--"
The kid with the glasses interjects, "2005."
"R...right, right. It was like in 2002. I mean, we think he was 30 or so, but he never seemed to get older. It was weird, y'know. He'd always smile and give us a big thumbs ups and bring us pop tarts or doughnuts."
"Those were always my favorite," another kid reminisces. "The best ones are the jelly filled ones."
"Right, right. Those were the best!"
Another kid chimes in, "He always had this really strange look, too. Like he was peering deep into my soul or something. Creepy, huh?"
Torvald chuckles, "Right. Creepy indeed."
They all go quiet and look around the area. There is a deep silence over them all.
One of the kids pensively says, "Look, we don't really get this chance to talk to people about this stuff. Our school doesn't even have a counsellor, if you know what I mean. It's just not easy existing in this town."
"But it's even harder being one of the few who have a job that actually pays enough to support us and our families. Or whatever."
Anja asks, "Your school doesn't have a counsellor?"
One of them replies, "Uh...no, ma'am. It's just us. Others tell us to just 'suck it up' and 'man up'. They tell us to just keep our noses out of business that doesn't concern us. Just stay indoors and mind your own damn business. Like the good little kids that we are."
Gunnar says, "But you are far from little children! And we're your new friends! Friends talk to each other." He gently squeezes their shoulders and rubs their heads.
They look at each other and chuckle, "Friends, huh? Thanks, man. We...we really appreciate ya'll strangers hearing us out without gettin' all judgy or dismissive about it."
Anja asks, "And the loud music? The face paint? All just a 'phase', hmmmm?"
The kids look at each other and then one of them sheepishly says, "Well, yeah. I mean, we're kinda into that sort of thing."
The kid with glasses adds, "Yeah. Although, I'd say it's a coping mechanism. Or perhaps a way to process how we're feeling."
Gunnar chuckles, "The one with the glasses is always the smartest one! Heh heh!"
Another kid asks, "What's it like living in a foreign country?"
Anja dryly replies, "It's an experience you never forget. Ironically, it is also an experience you WANT to forget." She looks down as she says this.
"Well, we were curious. I mean, there's not much to do in this town anyway. That's why we're into it. Y'know, just to distract ourselves from all the crappy stuff."
Torvald looks around the place and says, "We should be on our way."
One of the kids nervously asks, "Will--will you be leaving us soon????"
Torvald pats their shoulders and says, "Not for a while. We have some...important things to take care of."
"I...In Plaintry? Important things?"
Torvald smiles, "Yes, of course! Many important things. Not just here. But also...faraway places. We'll see you later."
"Where's ya'll stayin' at?" one of the kids ask.
Gunnar smirks, "At the nearby bed and breakfast. You are most welcome to come over whenever you want to."
Anja narrows her eyes and clears her throat.
Gunnar gets the hint, "OK. Maybe not whenever, but...we're always here. Any time of the day or night."
"Alright, then. Thanks, mister," says another kid.
Torvald looks up, "We must be on our way."
Anja nods, "Yes."
Emi happily waves goodbye to the teenagers and the 4 walk away from them. Gunnar, of course, walks ahead of them, eagerly looking at the buildings.
They make their way through the busy streets, taking in the sights and sounds.
They decide to stop at the local coffee shop to get some drinks.
"I can't believe they're permitting this sort of filth to live amongst them," Gunnar grumbles.
"Who?" Anja asks.
Gunnar reminds Anja of the conversation with the teens earlier.
Torvald sighs and replies, "It is imperative to separate fact from fiction, Gunnar. After all, they are still children. And children...tend to embellish the truth."
Gunnar nods and says, "Right. Yes. Of course." He continues, "But, t--they seemed to know so much about all of this. You heard what happened to that old woman in that hospital, Torvald. That was not a simple case of senile old age, or a hallucination, or anything else. It was...them. The taint. And we are here to destroy it."
"I agree. It's not just this town. It's all over the old country as well. In fact, I have witnessed these...creatures first-hand, many times." Torvald adds, "They are everywhere, Gunnar."
Torvald walks into the coffee shop, holding the door open for them all.
Emi walks in and asks, "But, why here and why now? If there were so many of these things all over, then why this place?"
"I have asked myself the same question many times, Emi. There must be a reason why we were sent here. In time, I believe, all will be made known."
Anja shrugs and rolls her eyes.
Emi orders a large coffee, along with an assortment of pastries. Torvald and Anja order green tea. Gunnar orders 2 chicken puffs. They sit at the nearest table, where Anja takes a seat, opposite to Gunnar and Emi.
Gunnar eats his puffs. Emi nibbles on the pastries. Anja and Torvald slowly blow on their tea before drinking it.
Emi speaks up and says, "It's been a long time since I've been in an actual coffee shop. You...get bored with vending machines after a while," she says as her voice trails off and she looks into her coffee mug. She takes a sip from it.
Anja stares at her, but says nothing.
Torvald looks around the place, the wooden counter, the tables, the people. He sighs, "A lot has changed, hasn't it? A lot of things we were once proud of are now but mere relics, or worse yet, a testament to the great fall that we have experienced."
Gunnar grunts as bits of puff fall down his beard.
Anja holds the cup with both hands and drinks her green tea in silence. She stares at her reflection in the tempered glass of the tabletop. She closes her eyes for a few seconds and says, "We've come here for a reason, Torvald."
She scratches her nose and continues, "Where are the others, anyway? You said they'd be here already."
"Yes, but they're not. We're...early." He smiles at her and sips his tea.
He continues, "The corruption, unfortunately, is not going anywhere, and I'm afraid we'll have to wait for the others to arrive before we can begin our sacred task."
Gunnar, food still in his mouth, says, "We are on a very important mission, Anja. We have to rid this place of all that is corrupt. Those things are corrupt and evil. We can't let them remain alive. It is the will of G--"
Just then, the door to the café opens, and the air in the room suddenly grows cold. Everyone looks towards the door, as a group of people walk in. The 4 at the table prop themselves up while Torvald raises his hand, waves it, and beckons them to come over.
Anja takes her glasses and puts them on, looking around the room.
"About time," Anja mutters under her breath. She gulps down the rest of her tea in haste.
The group come over to their table. They grab a few chairs from the other tables, and sit down. There are 3 men and 2 women.
Anja greets them with a dry "Hello."
An older lady wearing a bright red dress sits next to Anja. She smiles and curtly nods.
A young man wearing a suit, tie and slicked back hair sits next to the lady, and introduces himself, "Hi, I'm Daniel. Welcome to the States! Glad you could make it. So, how's your journey been so far? I assume you've found a place to stay?"
He grins at them, showing his perfect white teeth.
Gunnar leans forward and replies, "Yes, Daniel. We have found accommodations that are...adequate, thank you."
Daniel responds with a nod and a grin.
An older man wearing a lumberjack shirt and jeans sits next to Emi, who looks over at him, a bit frightened. "I'm Gus," he says as he reaches over, shaking her hand. His beard is full and his arms are muscular.
"Emi."
"Nice to meet you," he smiles and nods.
Gunnar looks around the room, scanning the place, making sure he keeps his eyes open.
Daniel says, "Good, good. How are you enjoying town, then?"
Anja scoffs, "Enjoying? This place is tainted and corrupt."
Gus smiles at her and nods, "You felt it too, didn't you?"
Gunnar replies, "Even now, I can feel it in the air. I can smell it. I can taste it." He leans back in his chair, placing his hand on his chin.
Gus looks at the ceiling and sighs deeply, "It's been going on for a long time, friends." He takes a deep breath and exhales, "A very long time."
The 3rd man, who was typing on his phone, looks up, and says, "Well, you're here now. So maybe we can finally do something about it? After all, that's why we're all here, isn't it? To finally end this madness and bring back what was lost? To save what little there is?"
He's a bit thin and gangly. He looks to be in his late-20s with a full head of uncombed hair.
Torvald looks at him and nods.
"That's the plan," Anja says, her eyes narrowing.
Gus gently claps his hands, "Oh, where are my manners. That's my wife, Sheila."
She's the older lady wearing a bright red dress sitting next to Anja. She smiles and nods at them.
Anja nods, "I'm Anja."
Gus points over to the man in the suit and says, "My son, Daniel."
He flashes a peace sign, "Yo."
"And you are?" Anja asks the tall man.
"Gavin. Sorry for my rudeness," he says as he puts his phone away.
A woman in her early-20s wearing a denim skirt and a tank top sits next to Gavin. She smiles and extends her hand out. Emi shakes it and says, "Hello."
"Erika," she says with a smile, "Gavin's younger sister."
"Emi."
Erika smiles and waves to the others.
Emi tilts her head, "So...what do we do now that we're all here?"
Gus responds, "We need to discuss the details of our...task at hand, and prepare ourselves."
Emi nods and leans forward, eager to learn more.
Torvald sighs and sits back in his chair, his arms crossed.
"We need to find the source," says Gus.
Torvald nods, "I doubt that it's going to be as easy as we all would hope. It's a big town, Mr. Gus. It's not going to be an easy task to find a needle in a haystack. In fact, it might not even be possible at all, considering what we are up against."
"I agree," Anja says.
Gus shakes his head, "We have to try. We...we would've moved sooner, but there's too few of us and too much ground to cover."
Gunnar nods, "Yes. We are aware. But, the time has come for action."
Erika asks, "So, where do we even start?"
Torvald replies, "My contact still hasn't returned my message. It's been a few hours and the last thing we need is a delay. I've already made some attempts, but they're still not responding."
Gavin raises his voice a bit, "So, what? W...we just sit around and do NOTHING?!"
Gunnar chuckles, "The more impatient the better! The more impatient you are, the easier it'll be to end this. To crush them! Ha ha!"
Sheila narrows her eyes and responds, "It is unwise to be rash, son. It is better to be cautious and take our time. That's the way we have always done things. And that's how we will keep doing them."
Sheila and Gus exchange looks.
Gavin grunts and leans back in his chair, his arms crossed.
Anja shakes her head and mutters, "How could this possibly have gotten so far?"
Gus looks over to his wife, "The corruption has been spreading for a very long time. It got so bad I, no, we had no other choice but to relocate. We've been doing this for many years now, trying to get a handle on it. We've all lost so much already and we've only barely managed to stop it from spreading further."
He sighs deeply, "I still won't forget the 4th of July, 1999. That date is forever burned into my memory. I barely got out of that convenience store in time. I saw so much blood that day. I saw so many people who had been torn to shreds. They had such fear in their eyes. It was heartbreaking. T...Terrible."
Gus clenches a fist as his wife grips his other hand, "It was then that I knew they had to be destroyed. All of them. It's been a tough fight, and we've lost many of our own." As he's saying this, a single tear starts to trickle down his cheek.
He quickly wipes it away, as he continues, "I didn't know if it was possible. I didn't think we could ever be successful. But, we had to keep going. So, we kept fighting. It's been years, but the fight is far from over. Far from over."
"I am here to fight. To bring destruction upon those things," says Gunnar as he leans forward and tightens his fists.
Anja furrows her brow and asks, "Y...you've lost someone close to you?"
Gus nods, "Yes. My brother. Sheila's first husband. Gavin and Erika's dad."
He pauses for a few seconds and continues, "It was about 20 or so years ago. I was with him when it happened. He was right there. We were together and then the next moment, he was gone. T...Torn apart. I saw them drain him dry, Anja. It was the most horrible sight I have ever seen in my life!"
His hands shake as he recounts the traumatic memory, "I knew in that moment that we had to keep fighting. To keep doing what was right. We have to do our part. It's...all we can do in the face of such--"
Emi softly whispers, "C...Corruption."
Gus looks at her and nods, "Yes, Emi. Corruption."
Gus continues, "Sheila was with us for a bit, but she couldn't do it. She couldn't keep up. So, she had to go on home. She was reluctant to leave at first. She had people in this town that looked to her for guidance and protection."
Sheila nods, "We were all together for a long time." She tucks a bit of her hair behind her ear.
Sheila looks to be in her early 60s. She wears a bright red dress, with matching red lipstick, and her graying hair is tied in a neat bun.
"There is always loss, especially in a battle like this," says Daniel as he tries to comfort his parents.
Sheila continues, "Eventually, I remarried," she looks at Gus and gives him a warm smile, "I never forgot what we had to do. I never stopped caring."
She pauses for a few seconds and continues, "But it hasn't been easy. It's been a long time since I've seen any of my old...allies. A long time since I've heard from them. I don't even know if they're still alive."
She sighs deeply, "It's been so long, I--"
Gus rubs Sheila's hand, "It's OK, honey. It's OK."
He looks over to the others and says, "In short, we've been fighting an uphill battle. Now that you're all here, maybe the odds will finally be in our favor?"
With optimism in his eyes, he smiles at them, "Maybe we can finally win."
Torvald curtly nods, "That is our hope, yes."
Daniel's phone rings very loudly, startling everyone at the table. He quickly picks it up and looks at the screen, "Oh...I gotta take this. Ex...excuse me." He hastily stands up and steps out of the coffee shop.
Everyone else looks at each other, unsure of what to say.
Gus breaks the silence, "Daniel's...adopted."
Sheila gives him a quick glance, but he says, "It's OK."
Gus clears his throat and continues, "We found him in the woods. He was bleeding. Poor kid. Likely shot by a poacher. He was lucky we found him when we did. W--We don't know what happened to his real parents. So, we took him in and raised him as our own. He's been with us ever since."
He smiles at the others, "He's a good kid."
Sheila smiles and says, "He just got his degree in Horticulture Science." She proudly beams at him, "He's such a sweet boy." She looks over to Daniel, who's pacing back and forth outside the coffee shop, talking on the phone.
She sighs, "But I feel he isn't ready for the outside world just yet."
Gavin says, "He'll be fine, ma. Don't worry about it." He pats her on the shoulder. "He's a big boy. He can handle himself."
He looks over to his sister and says, "Right, Erika?"
Erika gently shrugs and scratches her shoulder, "Well, I mean...he's different. And that's OK. He's still our brother, right? We should all support him." She smiles at her mom. "I'm...sure he'll be fine."
Sheila smiles back at her. "Thank you, Erika."
Emi asks, "What do you do, Erika?"
Gus responds, "She's studying to be an environmental lawyer." He smiles at her and she smiles back, "She's fighting the good fight, but in her own way."
He adds, "It's not easy, but it's important work. Important work." He looks at her and nods.
She nods back at him. "Thanks, dad."
She looks over to Emi and says, "The things I've seen...it's terrible. The damage done to this planet is...unbelievable. I can't stand by and watch it happen anymore."
She looks down at her hands, "I have to do something. I have to help." She looks up at Emi and smiles, "I know it's not much, but I'm doing my best."
Gunnar says, "Most noble of you, Erika. I myself have little faith in the such institutions, but people like you give me hope. You give us hope that perhaps there is a future for this world after all."
"Thanks, Gunnar."
Gavin sighs and speaks up, "And I uh...work with kids in rural and remote areas. Y'know, teach 'em stuff. How to read, write, do math, all that." He adds, "I also coach a little league team."
He looks over to his dad and says, "I really like working with 'em. They're good kids. Most of 'em."
He chuckles and smiles, "I've actually learned a lot from them."
He looks over to his mom and says, "They're all special, but--"
Anja interrupts him, "And yet you wonder what kind of a world they will grow up to inherit, if there will even be a world for them at all. I...I understand."
She looks down at her empty teacup and sighs, "I know how you feel."
Gavin nods, "Yep. I think about that every single day, Anja. It ain't always easy. Y'know, being who we are. What we are. But, we have to keep going. For them. For us. For the future. Or what's left of it."
"It's all we can do."
Torvald nods as Daniel walks back in and takes his seat, awkwardly adjusting his tie. He clears his throat and says, "Sorry about that. I...uh...I'm back."
He looks around the table, as everyone stares at him. "What? Did I miss something?"
Sheila responds, "Nothing, dear. We were just talking."
Daniel looks around at everyone and shrugs, "OK. So um...now what? What's the plan?"
He looks over to Torvald, "Did you get in touch with your contact yet?"
Torvald shakes his head, "No, not yet. I'll try again later."
Just then, Torvald's phone vibrates. He looks down at it and says, "It's them." He stands up and excuses himself, "I'll be right back."
He walks out of the coffee shop. Everyone watches him leave. After a few minutes, he returns.
As Torvald sits back down, Erika bites her lower lip and asks, "So...what's the haps? Hmmm??"
Torvald nods, "They want to meet tomorrow night. It...was a pre-recorded message. Anyways--"
Gus interjects and looks Torvald in the eye, "And this contact of yours can be trusted? Hmmmm?" He leans forward, his arms crossed, "Can we trust them?"
He narrows his eyes and continues, "Or is this some kind of trap??" He leans back in his chair, his arms still crossed.
Torvald shakes his head, "It doesn't appear that way, Mr. Gus. For now, I believe they can be trusted. They seem...genuine enough."
He looks at Gus and asks, "Where is the abandoned resort construction site located?"
Gus looks around the table, "Ah, that eyesore. I think it's near the old diner. Yeah, I think that's it." He nods, "Yeah, that's it."
He looks over to his wife for confirmation, "Right, honey?"
She nods, "Yes, that's it." She looks over to the others and says, "It's been abandoned for years. No one goes there anymore."
She says, "It was one of our many hideouts before we had to relocate."
She sighs and continues, "Ah, the memories." She looks away to the side, reminiscing.
Torvald nods, "I see. Thank you." He looks at his phone and says, "We'll meet them there tomorrow night."
Gavin raises an eyebrow, "Them?"
Torvald chuckles, "They were using some kind of voice changer. Or whatever it's called." He shrugs, "But, it doesn't matter. We'll meet them tomorrow night. Whoever they are."
He looks around the table, "Any questions?"
Daniel raises his hand, "Uh...I got one."
Torvald says, "Yes, Daniel?"
Daniel asks, "So...what exactly are we gonna do after we meet your contact? Hmmmm?" He leans closer, "I mean, we gotta have a plan, right? Right?"
He looks around the table, "Right?"
Torvald nods, "Of course, Daniel. My contact claims to have...sensitive information regarding our common enemy. They claim to be in possession of something. Something important. Something that we could use to our advantage."
He adds, "That's all they were willing to say when we last spoke 2 nights ago."
Gus softly grunts. Sheila scratches her head and says, "T...that will have to do, I suppose."
Gus adjusts his collar and shuffles in his seat a bit, "I don't blame 'em. We're...not the only ones looking for these things, y'know." He looks at the others and says, "There are others."
Emi nervously asks, "O--Others? L...like us?"
He looks at her and says, "Honestly, I...I don't know what they're capable of. All I know is that they're loosely organized under something called the--"
He snaps his fingers as he tries to recall the name, "The...the...oh, what's it called???"
Sheila sighs and says, "It's called the Second Inquisition, Gus. The Second Inquisition."
She looks at the others and says, "A Loosely organized union of spies, fanatics, former veterans, law enforcement officers, and other...maniacs."
She adds, "They're dangerous. Very dangerous."
Gus nods, "Yep, that's it. The Second Inquisition. They're a bunch of nutjobs, but they're still a threat. To our kind, too. I've heard stories and rumors about how they operate these days. Arson, vandalism, kidnapping, torture, murder, blackmail, extortion, theft, and more. I...I wouldn't put any of it past them."
He rubs his hand across his face and continues, "They've been operating for years now. They've been growing in strength and numbers. And they're not the only ones."
He looks at the others and continues, "There are others, too. Even more...deranged than those lunatics." He shakes his head, "It's a fucking mess out there."
Anja says, "Yes, I've heard of them. The Second Inquisition. I've...witnessed them not only in Japan but in Poland as well. They love their fire." She then curses in Polish, "Kurwa (PL: Fuck)."
She shakes her head and continues, "And yet you say there are...MORE out there?"
Sheila replies, "Unfortunately, yes. Organized but unaffiliated groups. They're mostly vigilantes, mercenaries, zealots, and other...freak-shows. Some of them claim to be able to harness the power of the divine. Others claim to have been chosen by God to rid the world of all 'evil'."
Gavin interjects, "And others are just ordinary joes and janes with guns and that beady-eyed look." He chuckles, "I'm not even 30 and I've seen it ALL at this point, heh."
He adds, "Hell, WE'VE seen it all." He looks over to his sister and says, "Right, Erika?"
Erika shakes her head as a shiver runs down her spine, "Y...yeah. We've seen it all." She looks at the others and says, "We...we fought them off not so long ago--"
Erika's lips tremble as she attempts to recount the traumatic memory. "T...they tried to kill us all."
She looks down at her hands and continues, "They came prepared."
Sheila takes over, "We had no choice. It was either us or them."
She takes hold of her husband's hand and grips it tightly, "We killed all of them, except for that woman. That...woman." She sneers, "She had her gun pointed right at poor Daniel!"
She looks at her adopted son with concern, "After her friends died, we saw her flee in terror. I--I still remember one of them calling her name out right before he died."
She softly growls, "Farah."
Gavin scratches the back of his head and looks over to Daniel, "I did what I had to do to save Daniel." He pensively says, "Although, a part of me wishes there was another way."
He looks over at Daniel, "For our family."
He leans back in his chair, and looks down at his feet.
Daniel looks over to him, "I understand, Gav. Uh...thanks. You're a real one."
He smiles at Gavin. Gus softly chuckles.
He smiles at the others and says, "We are in a fight for our very lives and we have to do whatever we can to survive. No matter how much it hurts or how many of them there are."
Gunnar grunts, "Yes!" as he burps. He snaps his fingers to call the waiter over, "These chicken puffs...are GOOD! I would like 4 more. To go, please. My friends and I will be back here tomorrow night. Reserve the same table."
He smiles at the waiter, who looks confused but then smiles back, "Right away, sir. 4 chicken puffs coming right up." He leaves.
Gunnar looks over to Gus and asks, "Have you tried these chicken puffs, Mr. Gus? They're...delicious."
Torvald says, "It's good to see you're enjoying yourself." He takes out his wallet. "I think we should be heading out now." He pauses for a few seconds, narrows his eyes and looks around the table.
He places his wallet on the table, rubs his hands and continues, "This...was a very enlightening discussion. Of course, it wasn't easy for Gus or his family to recount such traumatic memories, but I'm sure it was worth it."
Anja shakes her head and looks away. She clenches her fists and closes her eyes, attempting to hold back tears.
Sheila places her hand on Anja's shoulder, causing the latter to jerk her head back towards her.
Sheila looks at Anja, smiles at her, and says, "You've lost someone you cared about, didn't you? I can see the sorrow on your face, dear. I can sense your pain."
Anja shakes her head as her eyes start to well up, "I...don't feel like talking about it. Please, don't make me." She gently takes Sheila's hand off her shoulder.
She looks over to the others and says, "I'm fine. That's that."
Gus says, "Just know that we're here for you, Anja. You don't have to suffer in silence."
"Hmph," replies Anja as she looks away from the others. She adjusts her glasses. "We'll see you tomorrow night, Mr. Gus."
"Just Gus. Mister makes me feel...old."
Anja curtly nods, "Gus."
She stands up and adjusts her fanny pack, "Now, let's be on our way. It's been a long day and I'm quite exhausted."
She looks over to Emi and says, "Emi? Let's go. Come."
Emi gets up from her seat and bows her torso towards them, "Ah...thank you all very much for gracing us with your presence, Gus and family. It's been...quite the experience. I am most grateful for this."
She adds, "And I hope to get to know you all much better once things settle down, if they ever will."
Sheila gets up and takes Emi's hand in both her hands, "We look forward to getting to know you too." She gently squeezes Emi's hand, "You're among friends here."
Erika and Gavin get up as well and nod at them.
"Well, uh...have a good afternoon, I guess," says Gavin as he waves goodbye.
Gus shakes Gunnar's hand firmly, "It was good to meet you, Gunnar."
He turns his head towards Torvald, "It's nice to see some people out there who are still willing to do what's right. So, we'll see you all tomorrow night? How about we meet here first? Then we can head on over to the site together?"
Torvald nods, "Yes, yes. It is a good plan, Gus. We'll see you here at 9 PM tomorrow evening."
Daniel asks, "M--Make it 10 PM. I...got a thing at 9:30. Sorry." He fidgets and shifts in his seat.
Anja looks at Torvald, "That's fine. 10 PM. We'll be here."
Torvald nods and asks, "If that's OK with you, Gus?"
Gus gently smiles, "Of course. 10 PM tomorrow night. Have a wonderful afternoon, you 4!"
Anja says, "Until then, we must prepare ourselves."
Emi grins as she says, "Sayōnara (JP: Goodbye)," and waves at them.
Gus, Sheila, Gavin, Erika, and Daniel say their goodbyes as the 4 leave the coffee shop, with Anja and Gunnar taking the lead, followed by Torvald, and then Emi. They watch them leave, then they sit back down.
Gus asks his family, "So, what do you think about 'em?"
Erika shrugs, "They seem nice 'nuff, y'know."
Gavin says, "Yep. Not sure if we can totally trust them, but I'd rather give 'em the benefit of the doubt. They don't seem like bad people."
Daniel simply says, "I like them!"
Sheila chuckles and replies, "I'm sure you do, Daniel. I'm sure you do."
Gus looks out the window and sighs, "We need every ally we can get, right?"
Sheila nods, "Indeed."
Gus leans back in his seat as he yawns, "Let's just...sit here for a while. It's too hot outside. Glad they got ACs in here."
He sharply sighs, "It's been a long drive. Never thought we'd actually come back to Plaintry. Jeez."
Daniel pulls out his phone and his siblings do the same. He starts playing games on his phone, while Gavin and Erika text and scroll through social media.
Sheila takes a sip of her coffee, but then puts her cup back down and leans forward.
"Daniel?"
"Yes, mom," he replies, not looking up from his phone.
"I'm sorry I told them about what happened that day."
Daniel looks up from his phone and says, "I'm glad you did, mom. I'm glad you trusted them with it. It was a long time ago, so--"
Erika interjects, "It still feels like it was a few days ago! He's still affected by it! That's why--" she's interrupted by her phone ringing.
She takes her phone from her pocket, "Oh! Sorry." She narrows her eyes as she looks at the screen and then continues, "Never mind. Junk call. Sorry."
Gus shrugs and continues, "But we're a family. We need to be able to trust each other and open up about things. It's important, Erika."
"I know, but--"
Daniel says, "I still won't forget her...orange jacket. It was very bright and colorful. I don't even like orange. I hate orange. Orange is just...a terrible color."
Sheila nods and continues, "I was so scared, Daniel. I didn't know what to do." She takes out a handkerchief from her purse and dabs her eyes.
Gavin looks up from his phone and says, "Let's...just not talk about this, OK? We all nearly died that day. Let's not think about it. Just...forget it, OK?"
Gus nods, "You're right. We have to focus on what lies ahead."
Sheila squeezes Daniel's hand tightly, "Of course." She says, "We should talk about something else. Anything else."
Daniel shrugs, "Cool. Like what?"
Sheila looks out the window and says, "I know! Remember that time your dad and I took you to the state fair? We got so scared of that carousel!"
She laughs and continues, "You were just a little boy back then. You wanted to get on that ride so badly, but--"
Gus cuts her off, "Yeah, that was a fun time. Happier times." He smiles at Sheila and squeezes her hand.
"Yeah," replies Daniel as he scrolls through his phone.
Erika says, "Yeah. We should do it again."
"Yep, but this time without all the creepy monsters. I did NOT like that haunted house," Gavin says as he scratches his head.
Daniel laughs, "The thing that creeped me out the most was that lady with the big, wide eyes and the weird, stiff smile!"
The family of 5 sit in the café, talking about...less complicated albeit happier times. They chat amongst themselves for a while, occasionally laughing and smiling at one another.
Meanwhile, Torvald, Anja, Gunnar, and Emi make their way back to the BNB, exhausted from the long day and from the discussion they had in the coffee shop. They all plop down into their beds and are fast asleep in minutes.
Eventually, the sun starts to set, and the evening air starts getting cooler. From an open window, Torvald feels the gentle breeze on his skin and notices the cool air in his lungs. The colors of the sky begin to shift as night slowly approaches.
And with the approach of the night, the Kindred of Plaintry slowly stir awake, emerging from their hiding places to once again roam the streets and go about their "business".
Meanwhile, in Lucile's Haven...
It's that same dream again. That same room. Those same 2 horrid creatures, dancing around her, hissing and clawing at her. Lucile cowers in the corner of the room, crying tears of blood, shivering.
They hiss and cackle at her as they taunt her. Then, the man tilts his head and scratches on the floor with his claws, while the woman stands there and watches. They continue dancing, swinging their bodies back and forth.
They kiss each other, passionately. Their hands roam all over their bodies as they exchange saliva, tongues, and blood.
The man laughs, his mouth full of blood, and he walks towards Lucile, who still sits on the ground, shaking.
He opens his mouth and speaks, "Wait till she finds out what YOU did."
Lucile's eyes immediately open as she wakes up.
She sits up and rubs her face with her hand. "No. Not this again," she says to herself as she exhales deeply and tries to relax.
She notices Maya still sleeping next to her. Naked and covered in a thin sheen of sweat. The covers have fallen off her, revealing her cold body.
Lucile gently places her hand on Maya's shoulder and whispers, "Wake up, sweetie. We got a long night ahead of us."
Maya turns over, slowly opens her eyes and blinks a few times, trying to focus her eyes. She mutters, "Wow. Whoa." She sits up in her bed and looks around. She rubs her eyes and looks over to Lucile, who is leaning against her pillow.
Maya runs her fingers through her hair and says, "I...don't remember the last time I had such GREAT sleep! Whoa!"
Lucile smiles, "One of the perks of being a vampire is not having to worry too much about sleep. And a good thing, too, considering what we have to do." She stretches her arms out as she groans.
She continues, "C'mon. Let's hop in the shower."
Maya asks, "Wait! What about Eleanor?" Maya scratches her belly. She looks at the clock and sees that it's 6:20 PM.
She adds, "We should probably check on her, right?"
Lucile shrugs, "Eh. She'll be OK. I'll go and turn the geyser on for us, OK? Just a couple of minutes."
Maya gets out of her bed and looks around. She sighs and asks, "Uh...you got any bath robes or something, y'know, after yester--" she stops mid-sentence as she spots her stinky, gray hoodie jacket on the floor, next to the pile of clothes she was wearing the night before.
She bites her lip and looks over to Lucile, admiring her naked body. She bends down to pick up her clothes. She bites her lip harder. She's too shy to speak up, but Lucile notices the look on her face.
"I had a lotta fun last night, Maya." Lucile smiles as she reaches for her bra. "We'll have to do it again sometime soon," she adds as she turns around and looks Maya in the eyes, before making her way towards the bathroom.
Maya nods and cracks a smile, "D...definitely. It was amazing! What else is there to say, right?" She leans back on the bed and continues, "I--I mean I loved every minute of it. It was so...different."
She sighs, "It felt so alive. Which is kinda weird, considering that I'm 'dead' now, heh."
She gets up from her bed and walks to the bathroom. Lucile is brushing her teeth in front of the sink as Maya closes the door behind her. She notices Lucile's fangs and gulps.
Maya asks, "Hey, uh, I got some questions, y'know?"
Lucile, with toothpaste all over her lips, chuckles, "Hmmm?"
Maya asks, "I don't even know where to begin. My uh...new body, I guess. So, how does it all work exactly? I...I still don't know much about this stuff."
Maya scratches her cheek and continues, "I mean, there's no instruction manual for this stuff? Does it have any drawbacks? Does it need to be maintained? Does it need blood? Ugh, that last part."
Lucile spits the toothpaste into the sink and says, "Don't worry, sweetie. Eleanor's taking you on your first hunt tonight."
She turns towards Maya and winks, "Your 'diet' is blood from now on. No more cheesy garlic bread, lasagna, sandwiches, sodas, and whatever it is you used to eat or drink."
Maya sucks her teeth and grimaces a bit, "Yeah, about that..."
She leans back against the sink and looks down at her feet, "I don't know if I...wanna do it. Now, I'm certain it was done to me when I was a mortal, but--"
Lucile strokes Maya's cheek and places her finger on her lips, "Shhhhhh. Just follow our lead and you'll be fine. It's perfectly normal to have some...apprehensions at first."
She smiles at her, "Especially since this is your first time and you're totally inexperienced. But don't worry, you'll be fine. You'll see. It'll come naturally to you."
Maya shrugs and shyly asks, "Are there alternatives to bopping people over the head and sticking your fangs in their necks? Y'know, like...bagged blood and stuff?"
Lucile reminds her, "Bagged blood is an alternative, yes. But, others probably need it more than you do. I mean, it's good enough, but you need to learn to hunt, Maya. You need to adapt."
Maya winces, "Yeah, that's gonna be hard for someone like me."
Lucile pulls Maya in closer and gives her a kiss. Maya's eyes light up as she kisses Lucile back. They hold each other close and gently caress each other's backs.
After a minute, Lucile pulls away and whispers, "Don't worry. I'll be here for a few more nights, my poinsettia. You can talk to me whenever you need help. And don't be afraid to ask Eleanor, too. She's very knowledgeable, even if she doesn't seem like it at first."
Maya replies, "OK. I--I don't have much of a choice anyways, do I? If I wanna, uh...go on with my 'life', y'know. And stuff."
"Just stick with us, and everything will be fine."
Maya smiles as Lucile turns the shower on. She grins, "Hop in. Water's nice and warm. Or do you like it cold?"
Maya says, "Just...one more thing."
Lucile looks at her, "What is it, sweetie?"
Maya takes a deep breath and exhales, "I...I love you. I love you so much. I--" She pauses for a few seconds and continues, "I really hope that this doesn't end up...ruining everything between us, y'know? I mean, I--"
She nervously bites her lip and continues, "I don't want to lose you over this."
Lucile puckers her lips and replies, "I love you too, sweetie. Don't worry about that." She cups Maya's cheeks and says, "What we've got is something real and...well, special."
She looks at Maya and says, "Besides, we have an eternity to explore and figure things out, don't we?"
Maya sighs, "That's what kinda scares me, Lucile."
The shower's water comes flowing out like a river, with steam rising all around them.
"Hey, don't worry about it, OK? Now, come closer. Let's get you all cleaned up for tonight. Being dead is no excuse to be unhygienic," she says as she pulls Maya by her hands, closer to the shower.
Lucile chuckles and says, "We're gonna be OK, Maya." She gently pushes Maya under the stream and cups her hands, letting the warm water pour into her palms.
Maya playfully splashes some water towards her. Lucile grins as the warm water cascades down her body, cascading over Maya as well.
Maya grabs some body wash, a loofa and squirts a little bit and spreads it all over her body. She says, "Y'know, I'm glad we were able to talk so freely about our pasts yesterday."
She bites her lip and goes on, "I guess you're right; there should be no secrets between us, Lucile. Especially not ones that could possibly affect us later on."
Lucile smiles at her and says, "That's right, Maya. You're the best thing that's ever happened to me. You and Eleanor, of course. I--"
She closes her eyes and breathes, "I don't want to lose you. I could never forgive myself if anything were to happen to either of you. It's my responsibility as much as it is Eleanor's."
Maya grabs a nearby shampoo bottle, lathers up her hair and starts washing it, "Well, what I do know is that I'm grateful to both of you for this...opportunity to be a part of your strange world. Heh heh."
She washes her face, and says, "And, I want this to work. For all our sakes."
Lucile responds, "Of course it will."
Lucile runs her hand through Maya's wet body and leans in to kiss her. Maya kisses her back and gazes into Lucile's eyes as she strokes her wet hair. They embrace each other as they hold each other's faces, looking deeply into each other's eyes.
"I love you, Maya. Don't forget it."
"I won't. I promise. I love you too, Lucile. So so much."
Lucile says, "For what it's worth, I think you'll make a fantastic Tremere. You're smart, resourceful, and have a lot to offer to the Clan."
She adds, "Just remember to keep your head down and respect the Prince."
Maya nods, "The Prince. I look forward to meeting him along with the other Kindred."
Lucile laughs, "I'm sure you do, sweetie. I'm sure you do."
The showerhead continues showering them with hot water. Maya, after a few minutes, puts her shampoo bottle down and squirts more soap into her palms.
She grabs the loofa and starts soaping Lucile's body, doing it in an...unusual way, rubbing her hands all over the other woman's body.
Maya softly purrs as she gently touches Lucile's skin. Her hands run down her waist and gently rub her stomach.
Lucile laughs and playfully slaps Maya's hand, "Ah, that's nice." She pushes her closer to the shower, saying, "Now, it's my turn." She grabs the shampoo bottle from Maya and squirts some into her hands.
She then takes the loofa and starts lathering it up. "So, you decided how you're gonna bring all your stuff over from your place, right?"
Maya scratches her head, "Yeah. I uh...I don't have much to begin with. All of my stuff could probably fit in a few suitcases, I guess. Oh, but I gotta call my landlady first. Y'know, to get my deposit back and all that shit."
Maya sighs, "And to pay off the rent on my apartment. Ugh. I'm so gonna owe her SO MUCH money."
She looks at Lucile and continues, "What about you? You don't mind making place for all my crap?"
Lucile says, "Hey, don't call your stuff 'crap'. I'm really excited to have you live with me." She laughs as she puts her hands on Maya's shoulders and leans forward to kiss her. Maya kisses her back, tongue darting inside Lucile's mouth. They hold each other's faces as they kiss passionately.
After a minute, they pull away and start giggling. They hold each other close, smiling and laughing, completely forgetting about the hot water of the shower.
Lucile reminds Maya, "You'll need to keep your nose to the grindstone for a while and focus on learning our ways. The Tremere have...high standards. They're picky. But, you'll get the hang of it in no time. You have great potential."
Maya nods and says, "Well, if it ain't the easy way, then I guess the hard way is the only way, right?" She adds, "I'm sure I'll be able to make things work. As long as I have you, y'know? And Eleanor, of course."
Maya stops, and says, "Oh, I have to thank her for uh...that thing she did."
She continues, "I dunno what it is, but it's weird, like...I'm starting to feel different, y'know? I feel more powerful and more alive. It's kinda hard to describe all these sensations, but--WHOA! What the hell??" Maya feels a burning sensation on her hand and jumps out of the shower.
She holds her hand and looks down at it. "Ahhhhh! What is this?" Maya yells. "My hand! My hand it--it burns!! AHHHHHH!"
Lucile grabs a hold of Maya's hand, "Oh my god, Maya! Maya! It's alright, sweetie. Calm down."
Lucile pulls Maya in for a hug and tells her, "Take a deep breath, sweetie. Everything is gonna be OK." The pain on Maya's hand subsides as Lucile whispers in Maya's ear, "Shhhhh. Don't worry, my poinsettia."
Maya trembles as she asks, "I...I'm scared. What's happening to me???" She squeezes Lucile tight, "Why did that happen?"
"Even now, your body is changing, Maya. It'll get better. You'll see. It's just taking a little longer than expected, that's all."
She holds Maya's hand and continues, "Trust me. It's perfectly normal. I was in your place not so long ago. It passes."
She pulls Maya's hand towards her and gently kisses it, "I promise. Don't worry about it."
Maya nervously grins and says, "O...OK. I trust you, Lucile. I trust you. But--"
She anxiously bites her lip, "What happens if it gets worse?" She looks at Lucile and stammers, "Is it g--gonna get worse??"
Lucile kisses Maya on her forehead and reassures her, "It's gonna be fine, sweetie. Just follow my lead, OK? I'm sure Eleanor will be able to help us with this. She's your Sire after all. You can go to her with any problem you may have and she will help you. She has to."
She gently squeezes Maya's hand and looks her in the eye, "So, now let's finish up, OK? You're gonna need your energy for tonight."
Maya smiles and nods as she holds Lucile's hand. She looks at her hand, and says, "As long as someone's there for me. I don't wanna be alone."
She then says, "Thanks, Lucile." She takes a deep breath and exhales, "Thanks for everything. Thanks for helping me through this."
Lucile kisses her on her cheek and replies, "No problem, Maya. And, you won't ever have to face things all by yourself. Not as long as we're together."
The shower water flows down the drain, and the hot water on their bodies begins to cool down. They hold each other close as they make their way back to the bedroom. The darkness begins to take over the world outside.
Maya dries herself with a towel and Lucile does the same. After they dry off, Lucile looks around for something Maya can wear and says, "Here, this should fit you. I got it years ago but never wore it."
She throws a pile of clothes on the bed.
Maya picks up a piece of clothing from the pile and stares at it for a while, not sure of what to think about it. It's a ruffle sleeve top and a pair of stretchable jeans. She stares at them for a while and says, "Wow, that's nice, Lucile. Uh...thanks!"
Lucile asks, "Are you sure they're OK, sweetie? If they're not, I can check upstairs for something else--"
Maya holds the clothing in front of her body. She chuckles and says, "Nah, this looks like it'll work just fine. It's cute! I like it!"
Lucile seductively whispers, "And it looks sexy, too." She holds up a black lace bra. "Ooooh, and this one. I bought it last year but it didn't quite fit. It's brand new. I never bothered returning it. It's really hot. You can wear it with that top."
She playfully bites her lip, "You'll look great in it."
Maya eyes the bra and smiles, "Sure!"
Lucile tosses the bra over to Maya and she catches it with her left hand. Maya remarks, "Whoa! I actually caught that!"
Lucile chuckles, "You're a lot faster now, Maya."
"Yeah, I'm gonna have to learn to uh...move faster and...smoothly. It's still kinda weird for me. It's like, y'know, everything is in slow-motion, but when I'm looking around--"
Maya pauses and frowns, "I mean, I can feel things and hear things and see things, but, it's not like I'm actually able to react and move. Like, y'know, quick enough."
Lucile nods, "That'll come in time, sweetie. We'll help you figure it out, and you'll get the hang of it soon enough."
Maya quickly puts on the bra and adjusts it, "Well, I'm not as...fast as you are." She chuckles, "Yet." She then puts on the jeans and asks, "How does it look?"
Lucile blushes and replies, "Gorgeous, sweetie. Absolutely gorgeous! It looks great on you."
She smiles at Maya and says, "You're beautiful. My poinsettia. My sweet poinsettia."
Maya's eyes light up as she blushes and giggles, "You're pretty beautiful yourself, Lucile."
Maya's red hair is still wet, but she makes a ponytail with it. She puts the rest of her clothes on, and looks in the mirror.
Lucile comes up behind her and rests her hands on her shoulders. She playfully kisses her on the back of her neck and says, "Mmmm. I like the look."
She turns Maya's body to face her and passionately kisses her on the lips, "You're the best thing that's ever happened to me, Maya. I love you."
Maya longingly replies, "I love you too, Lucile. So freakin' much."
Lucile kisses her on her cheek, "C'mon, let's go and say hi to Eleanor."
Lucile is wearing a button-down shirt and a pair of Capri pants. She takes Maya's hand in hers, and they make their way upstairs to the living room.
The 2 of them stop for a moment, holding hands, as they take a quick glance at each other, smiling and giggling. They walk into the living room.
Eleanor is sitting on the couch, deep in her own thoughts. She's wearing the same outfit she was wearing yesterday night. Maya and Lucile approach her, and sit down next to her.
Maya says, "Hi, Eleanor." She adds, "Uh, so...I guess we're all ready to go, right?"
Eleanor curtly nods her head, "Good evening, Maya. Lucile. I take it you both slept well during the day?"
Maya smiles, "Yeah. We did. I haven't had such great sleep in a long long time. Crazy, huh?" She chuckles, "Wow."
She asks, "So, where are we gonna do this thing? Y'know, the whole 'hunting' thing."
Eleanor replies, "It is imperative that you learn how to hunt, Maya. You will need to be able to feed from others to keep the Beast at bay." She adds, "Whatever...reservations you have must be cast aside, if you wish to survive."
She looks Maya in the eyes and continues, "You can't become a Kindred and expect to get away with living a mortal lifestyle."
Lucile just nods, not wishing to interrupt her Sire.
Eleanor continues, "Above all is the Masquerade, Maya. You cannot reveal our secret to anyone else. It'll endanger all of us." She pauses for a few seconds and continues, "And I believe I made that quite clear the other night."
"Yep."
Eleanor sighs, "And yet I still have much to teach you, Childe. Perhaps we can continue our discussions after tonight's hunt." It sounds more like a command than a question.
She looks at her watch and says, "We should get going. I will take you to the a relatively 'safe' location and show you what to do. I'm sure you will be able to find a suitable...meal."
Maya grimaces, "Ugh. So dehumanizing. They're people, not snacks." She adds, "Y'know, the whole 'blood' thing, it's not really my thing, so--"
She stops mid-sentence as Lucile puts her hand on hers, "It's not that I don't disagree, Maya, but the alternative is far far worse. It's the only way for our kind to stay 'alive'."
She then squeezes Maya's hand. "Please, trust us. We only want what's best for you."
Maya nods, "I know. I know."
She takes a deep breath and exhales, "I...guess it's better than turning into a senseless Wight under the control of the Beast. Ugh." Maya shudders as she thinks about the effects of being Frenzied and succumbing to the Wassail.
Eleanor lets out a slight smile, "Well, at least you're a fast learner. Come now, let us not waste any more time."
Maya looks over to Lucile, and Lucile gives her a nod and a wink. Maya nods back. She's scared, but she's determined to see this through.
Maya says to herself, "First proper night as a...vampire. Gosh, I still can't believe it!"
Lucile asks, "So, shall we go in my Camaro or your SUV, Eleanor?"
Eleanor says, "I've already told Laszlo to bring the SUV around. I suggest we all ride together."
Lucile replies, "Oh. OK. That's nice of you. You really didn't have to do that, but uh...thanks."
"I only wish to see Maya through her first hunt safely. We'll need to leave as soon as possible, and I know the drive will be long for you."
Eleanor pauses and continues, "We should get going as soon as we can."
Lucile chuckles and asks, "Why the rush, Eleanor? It's not like there's major traffic or anything?"
Eleanor shakes her head, "That is where you are mistaken, Childe. Laszlo informed me that there is a massive traffic jam just outside the town. Some accidents have been reported."
Lucile asks, "But why?"
"Neither I nor he know, or care. It matters not." Eleanor leans back on the couch and adds, "I'm sure Laszlo will find a way to get us there in one piece."
Lucile is a bit unsure about the whole thing but knows it's not great to go against her Sire, especially in front of Maya. She asks, "So, uh, where exactly are we headed?"
Eleanor says, "We will be heading towards a nearby park. There should be very few people around and the other Clans have not claimed it as their territory, so it should be safe enough."
Maya narrows her eyes and asks, "Is the park...totally safe? Like, is there any chance we could run into um--" she pauses before continuing, "y'know, the other Kindred?"
"Perhaps a Thin-Blood or 2, but Lucile has hunted there before." Eleanor looks over to Lucile and inquires, "You do recall that park, yes?"
Lucile nods, "Oh! Yeah. That's the one! There's this really old and abandoned house nearby. No one's lived there for ages. Heh, that brings back memories," she grins as she says this.
Eleanor says, "Indeed. That is the one. You will need to learn how to specialize while hunting. Some Kindred prefer waiting and stalking their...prey from a distance. Others, prefer a more hands-on approach. While others find more...subtle ways of slaking their ceaseless thirst."
"Subtle ways??" Maya asks.
"I've been told that one of the most popular methods is...during sexual intercourse."
Maya's eyes widen as she blushes. She covers her mouth, "Oh my god! Um...well, wow."
Maya gives Lucile a knowing glance and shakes her head, "Nah. That ain't for me. It...just isn't." She chuckles, "No offense."
Eleanor continues, "As you wish, my dear Childe. Just know that the Kiss can be quite intoxicating. Certain mortals claim to experience a sense of euphoria unparalleled by any other means. Even then, it is very hard for many of us to resist the Beast and control ourselves when we feed."
She adds, "Which is why it is best if you specialize and stick to one location as much as you can. It is much safer, and less risky for everyone involved."
As the trio sit around and talk, an SUV pulls up and the driver honks the horn. Laszlo gets out of the driver's seat, and opens the door on the other side of the vehicle. Eleanor motions for them to get up and go, so they all start making their way to the car.
Eleanor sits in the front while Maya and Lucile sit in the back. Maya looks around the SUV and says, "This is a sweet ride. Nice and cozy."
Eleanor introduces Laszlo to Maya, "Laszlo, this is Maya. She will be accompanying us tonight. Maya, this is Laszlo, my driver."
Laszlo bows his head and says, "Nice to meet you, miss."
Laszlo appears to be in his early-30s. He has nasty scars on his face, slightly concealed by his faint stubble. His eyes are very light, almost white. He's wearing a black t-shirt under a leather jacket. His pants are black, too.
Lucile smiles and says, "Hey, good to see you again, Laszlo."
He warmly replies, "Lucile."
Eleanor then gestures to the GPS and asks Lucile, "Lucile, please input the...coordinates for the park. I could never figure out how to work the damned thing. I think it's broken."
Lucile chuckles and says, "Of course."
She types something on the GPS and then leans back. She looks at the top of the map screen and says, "O-K! All set."
Laszlo looks at the GPS and tells Eleanor, "Shouldn't take too long, ma'am. There's still a lot of traffic right now, but I know a few shortcuts."
Eleanor nods and tells him, "Good."
The SUV roars to life and the 3 Usurpers get ready for the long drive ahead. The engine vibrates through the ground as the vehicle moves forward.
Maya looks outside the window, watching the town pass by. She takes a deep breath and exhales, "Wow. It's really happening, huh? I'm going to be out there, hunting."
Eleanor responds, "You'll be fine. Just do not forget all that I have taught you."
"I know. I know." Maya bites her lip and adds, "It's just...so weird, y'know? So far outta left field. This whole world, Kindred, Clans, Camarilla, and so on. It's all so surreal."
Maya continues, "I'm kinda nervous. And excited." She giggles and continues, "I've never been a night owl, but I gotta adapt if I wanna survive."
Eleanor adds, "Not just survive, but thrive."
Lucile smiles and holds Maya's hand, "You'll do great, sweetie. You're gonna do amazing, I can feel it. I believe in you."
Eleanor replies, "Yes. And remember, Maya, the Masquerade MUST be maintained. Do not speak a word of this to anyone, not even your family."
Maya gulps, "No worries there. I got no family. Hell, I--"
Lucile places her hand on Maya's knee, "Shhhh. Forget about Annette. I'm here for you now."
Maya smiles at Lucile, "Yeah. My poinsettia." She squeezes Lucile's hand.
The remainder of the drive is mostly tranquil despite the insane traffic. Laszlo knows these roads like the back of his hand, and he expertly gets them through the traffic. They drive down the main road, and take a right turn at the intersection.
They make their way up the main street, but the car is now covered in a thin layer of fog. The other vehicles look like they're made of cotton and nothing else.
The SUV drives past a few storefronts. Some are closed, and some are wide open. The fog covers the ground, and the buildings appear to be moving around, slowly and steadily, as the fog grows thicker and thicker.
The fog is cold, and the temperature drops quickly.
Maya asks, "Uh, is this normal?" She takes a deep breath and exhales (even though she doesn't need to), "Ooh, this is a lot colder than I thought," she says as she wraps her arms around her body.
Laszlo replies, "Forecasts said something about a slight drop in temperatures, miss."
Eleanor shakes her head, "No. This is not normal."
Maya replies, "Not normal how?"
Eleanor says nothing and after a long pause she mutters to herself, "It is...darker than usual. Much darker. And colder." She leans forward and points at something outside the window.
Maya and Lucile peer through the windows and see a figure in the distance, walking on the sidewalk.
They intently watch this figure for a few minutes before he walks under a streetlight. It's simply a man in his 40s or 50s, wearing a dark hoodie and carrying a plastic bag. He walks past the SUV and makes his way up the street. He waves to Laszlo and crosses the street, heading towards a shop.
Maya remarks, "False alarm, I guess."
Lucile nods and eyes her Sire who is deep in her own thoughts. Maya then notices that the SUV has come to a stop. She asks, "So, we there yet?"
Eleanor replies, "Yes." She looks at Laszlo, "Laszlo, park here."
Eleanor, Lucile, and Maya get out of the vehicle and head towards the park.
Eleanor says, "It is wise to approach on foot. We do not wish to draw any attention to ourselves, Maya. Lucile, you may go your own way now. I will handle Maya from here."
Lucile nods and says, "I understand. Have fun, and...be careful." She chuckles and adds, "I'll uh...I'll see you both later, OK?"
Maya kisses Lucile on the cheek, "OK! You too." She smiles, "It's all gonna be fine. Don't worry about us." She waves and says, "See you soon."
Maya turns to Eleanor, "Alright, let's go."
"Let's."
The park is a bit dark, but it's not pitch-black. There is a large tree in the center, surrounded by bushes and shrubs of various heights and widths. The grass is tall and uneven, making it hard to walk through without stepping on a stick or a branch.
There are a few wooden benches, some of which have been freshly painted and some that have fallen apart over time. There are also a few picnic tables, some of which are covered in grime and others that look brand new.
The whole park feels old, like a relic from the past, like many other things in Plaintry. There's a certain charm to it, as if time has passed in a different way. It's as though everything is frozen in time, stuck in a state of...waiting.
Perfect for Kindred of all skill levels to drag an unsuspecting victim into the bushes for a quick bite.
Maya and Eleanor make their way through the park, walking around the trees and bushes. They are looking for signs of life, but nothing seems out of place. There's a strange, almost magnetic feeling in the air that causes Maya's body hair to stand up.
Maya looks over to Eleanor and says, "I dunno, this place kinda creeps me out."
Eleanor discards that remark and narrows her eyes, as if looking at something on the other side of the bushes.
Maya walks up to her and whispers, "Eleanor? Are you--"
Eleanor holds her finger up to Maya, urging her to be silent.
Maya takes a deep breath and exhales, "OK, fine."
"Maya, I would like you to do something for me first."
"Uh...sure. What is it?" Maya asks, not quite sure where this is going.
"I want you to take a look around the park, and tell me what you can see." She pauses for a few seconds, "You need to see beyond the obvious. Please, do not hesitate to make use of your Auspex Discipline. It is, after all, what you chose to specialize in."
Maya grins and bites her lip, "Yeah, yeah, I can totally do that."
Maya awkwardly fidgets and shuffles around before asking Eleanor, "But how do I...uh, get started?"
Eleanor replies, "It's best if you do as I said on the night before- focus intently on someone or something. Then, shut your eyes, and keep your mind fully focused on that particular object. You will be able to see many things, then; things that would normally be invisible to the naked eye."
Maya nods and says, "O...OK." She's not sure if she can really do it, but it's worth a try.
Maya breathes in and out as she closes her eyes, doing as Eleanor told her. She focuses on the environment around her. She can hear the rustling of the leaves, the wind blowing through the bushes, the bugs and frogs that are calling out to each other.
The trees. The branches. The grass. The wind. It all seems so...serene.
She opens her eyes and looks at Eleanor, "Alright. So, I don't know how this is gonna work, but here goes."
She closes her eyes again and takes another deep breath, "Let's see. I'm gonna focus on that tree over there." She points towards the massive tree at the center of the park, and adds, "Then, I'll go from there."
Eleanor replies, "Very good, Childe."
Maya says to herself, "This is gonna be fun." She tries to picture the tree in her mind. She tries to see it clearly, from all angles, so that it becomes clear and distinct in her mind. She imagines how it would feel if she were to climb the tree, and all of its many branches. She focuses her mind on the tree and its many features.
She wonders how the bark of the tree would feel under her palms, how it would creak and groan with every movement she makes. She opens her eyes, and her vision is suddenly filled with the sight of the tree.
She takes a deep breath and exhales, "Oh wow! Wow. H--How the hell...WOW!" She stumbles forward and almost falls over, "Wh--Whoa--"
Eleanor catches Maya's shoulder and steadies her, "Are you alright, Childe?"
Maya gasps, "Yeah. I'm fine. I'm fine." She smiles and stammers, "I'm just...surprised, that's all."
She takes another deep breath and exhales, "It's all a bit much, y'know? I didn't expect to see everything so clear and so--"
She stops in her tracks and says, "And so many colors. Wooooooow."
Eleanor says, "Auspex, even at its basic level permits you see a lot, yes. Now, let us see if you can see beyond the physical. If you can focus on a specific person, perhaps your first feeding will not be so intimidating after all."
Maya nods and says, "OK. So, uh, I'm gonna focus on the guy over there." She points towards a man who's been walking around the park for the past few minutes. He's wearing shorts and a t-shirt. He's in his early 30s. "That one."
Eleanor shakes her head, "No. He is armed."
Maya asks, "Wait, what...how do you--"
Eleanor holds up her hand, "That is not important. Now, focus, Maya. Imagine your prey, and try to see beyond the physical. Try to...sniff them out. You'll need to rely on your abilities in order to hunt. Not that I am unwilling to guide you through the process, but you MUST learn to utilize your own talents and skills."
Eleanor continues, "I will not always be there to guide you. This is important for you to learn. Remember, it is a matter of Unlife and Final Death for our kind. Failure will have consequences. So, focus, and find your prey."
Maya furrows her brows, "Fine." She closes her eyes again, imagining her prey. She tries to imagine how they would react to being approached by a stranger in the middle of the night, by someone like her.
She imagines how they would react if they were to notice her, a stranger, walking up to them.
How scared would they be? How angry would they be? Would they even be scared?
A vague shadowy figure starts to form in her mind's eye. Maya opens her eyes and smiles, "Alright, Eleanor. I think I've got someone." She closes her eyes again, focusing on the shadowy figure.
Her Auspex begins to reveal a little more about her target. She sees a shape appearing to exercise and jog around the park. She tries to see through the shadow, but it's as if there is a fog covering the park. The more she tries to focus, the harder it gets to see the details.
Maya clenches her fists and grits her teeth as the gnawing Hunger begins to grow within her. She can feel her body wanting her to feed, to bite into her victim's neck, but she musters all the willpower she can. She doesn't want to disappoint Lucile or Eleanor.
She breathes heavily, and the Hunger grows stronger and stronger, and Maya feels a strange, almost burning sensation in her body, as if her blood is boiling in her veins. She can feel the Beast within her, trying to break out of its cage.
She wants to run out and grab the nearest person, bite them, and drink their blood, but she can't.
Eleanor places her hand on Maya's shoulder, "Focus. Calm yourself. You see her, do you not?"
"Uh-huh. Uh-huh. I see her. I can see...her. I can...smell her."
Eleanor gently whispers, "Excellent."
The shadowy figure jogs across their view, and Maya can now clearly see her prey. Maya's breathing grows heavy and her eyes begin to glow.
She can clearly see the woman's features, the way her face moves with each step she takes. The sweat glistening on her skin, the way her muscles move. Maya can feel the thirst growing within her.
She smells her prey. Her sweet scent fills her nose, and she can practically taste her blood in her mouth.
The woman in question appears to be in her late-30s. She's wearing training shorts, a pink tank top and she's got an expensive-looking heart monitor strapped around her arm. She's wearing earphones, and she's listening to music as she continues her jog around the park, her feet stomping against the hard cobblestone ground.
Maya can hear the woman's heavy breathing. She can smell her sweat, her blood, her body. She can even hear a bit of the music that the woman is listening to. It's some sort of hip-hop track.
Eleanor asks, "Now, Childe. What is your plan of action?"
Maya struggles to focus, still enveloped in all these sensations and feelings. She tries to speak, but she can't seem to form words. She's overwhelmed by the Hunger, and she can't help but stare at the jogger, her prey. She's so close.
Or, she appears to be.
Eleanor says, "Now, focus, Maya. You must feed. Do not let the Hunger control you. You have consumed a significant measure of your Vitae due to your utilization of Auspex. Something to keep in mind for the future."
She pauses for a few seconds, "Now, you must slake your thirst." She adds, "And do not forget to devise a plan of action."
Eleanor points towards the jogger, "She is your prey for tonight." She then points towards Maya, "You are the hunter."
Maya repeats those words to herself, "I am the hunter. I am the hunter." She takes a deep breath and exhales, "OK. I'm gonna go and...hunt!"
She nervously adds, "Uh, you'll be watching me, right?"
Eleanor reassures her by curtly nodding.
As Maya prepares to approach the jogging woman, Eleanor grabs ahold of Maya's arm and says, "Remember. Take only what is required. I DO NOT wish for this lesson to include the necessity of disposing of a corpse. That would be...unfortunate." She lets go of Maya's arm.
Maya nods, "Got it." She shakily adds, "Thanks."
She takes a deep breath and exhales, "Here goes nothing."
The jogging woman has stopped and is now stretching and performing jumping jacks. Maya approaches her from behind. The woman still has her earphones on, so she can't hear Maya's footsteps. Maya slowly sneaks up on her, trying to remain as quiet as possible.
She tries to move quickly, but the Hunger makes it difficult. She's having trouble keeping herself from lunging at the woman.
The Beast wants nothing but fresh blood, but Maya manages to hold it back. She's still in control. She's still herself. She can do this. She can do this. She repeats that to herself over and over again. She can do this.
Maya notices a bush nearby- perfect to drag the woman into. She takes a deep breath and exhales, "Alright. Here goes." She walks up to the woman until she's mere inches behind her.
The woman feels something is off, so she takes off one of her earphones and begins to turn her head.
Maya quickly grabs the woman's arm while covering her mouth and pulls her towards the bushes. Now that she's a vampire, she's much stronger now.
The woman's screams are muffled, but no one hears her either way. No one comes to her aid. She's all alone.
She's Maya's prey for tonight.
Maya's fangs almost involuntarily emerge from her gums. She can sense the woman's fear, her sweat, her blood. The Beast within her wants to rip the woman apart and devour her whole. Every last drop.
Maya bites down on the woman's sweaty neck. The woman tries to scream again, but Maya's hand muffles her cries. She can feel the woman's blood rushing into her mouth, filling her with a sense of ecstasy unlike anything she's ever felt before.
She feels the woman's life force flowing through her veins, and she can't help but let out a moan of pleasure.
It's almost too much for her to bear. She wants more. She wants more.
But she remembers Eleanor's advice- Maya's first hunt doesn't need to include a lesson on disposing of an exsanguinated corpse. She needs to be careful. She needs to be careful.
She can't let the Beast get the better of her. She can't lose control.
She pulls away from the woman's neck and looks at her. The woman is dazed and in almost blissful shock. She doesn't know what just happened and it's not likely she ever will.
Maya licks the wound clean (as all sensible Kindred do) and gently lowers the woman to the ground.
The woman's eyes are closed, and she's breathing heavily. She's still alive, but she's unconscious.
Her heart monitor seems to have been scratched and damaged by Maya's claws. Maya takes a deep breath and exhales, "Wow. Wow. That was...wow." She looks at the woman's neck and sees no puncture wounds.
Maya raises her eyebrows and touches her tongue. Her fangs have retracted. She grins and thinks to herself, "Oh, wow. Oh my god. I did it. I actually did it!"
She looks at the woman and whispers, "I'm so sorry about all of this...uh--"
Maya, however figures, it's best not to say anything. She gives the woman a look over to make sure she's OK. She gets up and starts to walk away.
As she does, she hears a familiar voice behind her, "Very good." It's Eleanor.
Maya turns around and sees her Sire standing there, nodding in approval.
Maya can even notice a slight smile on the old lady's face.
Maya smiles back, "Thanks. I uh...I didn't think I could do it." She adds, "It was really hard. Like, really really hard."
Maya looks at her hands and says, "I didn't even know I was capable of dragging an adult woman into a bush like that." She chuckles, "Wow."
She looks at Eleanor and asks, "So, uh, what now?" She adds, "Do I leave her here? Or--" she trails off.
Eleanor scans the area, "She will be fine where she is." She adds, "You did not take too much blood, so she will survive. She may even have a story to tell, if she chooses to remember."
She pauses for a few seconds and continues, "You did well, Childe. Very well." She gestures towards the exit of the park, "Now, we must return to Lucile."
Eleanor notices that there's a little blood dripping down Maya's chin. She points it out to Maya, "Please, wipe your mouth, Maya. It is improper to leave traces of blood on your face."
Maya blushes and wipes her mouth with the back of her hand. She licks the blood off her hand and smiles.
Eleanor shakes her head and says, "Come now, let us go."
As the Sire and her freshly-Embraced Childe are walking away from the park, Maya looks back at the unconscious woman. She can't help but feel a bit guilty. She's not sure why.
Sure, she didn't severely hurt the woman, but she did take something from her. Something she'll never get back.
She sighs and turns her head back to Eleanor.
She asks, "So, what's next?"
Eleanor replies, "We will return to Lucile's Haven, and I will teach you a few more things about our kind. Our discussions yesterday were merely the tip of the proverbial iceberg. There is much for you to learn, and very little time to do so."
She adds, "You will also need to improve your Auspex Levels. I truly believe that it is an excellent Discipline for you to specialize in."
She pauses for a few seconds, "It is quite useful, and it is also quite rare amongst our Clan. Most of them choose the most obvious, which is Blood Sorcery. While it is indeed powerful, Auspex is far more versatile."
Eleanor continues, "However, you will need to be careful. It is not wise to always use Auspex in front of mortals or other powerful Kindred. Some may find it...unnerving or improper."
She then adds, "It is best to keep such displays of power to a minimum, ESPECIALLY when dealing with other Kindred."
Maya nods, "Yeah. Sure. Gotta be mindful of your manners and all, huh?"
"It is far more than manners, my Childe. It is a matter of survival."
She pauses for a few seconds and adds, "There are many who would seek to destroy us, or worse. The Masquerade must be maintained, and any display of our true nature could lead to disastrous consequences. Especially on nights such as these."
Maya silently nods and walks a bit faster. She can feel the fresh blood already making its way down her throat and into her stomach.
She can feel the warmth of it spreading throughout her body, giving her a sense of strength and vitality.
She feels...powerful. She feels like she could do anything.
She feels like she could run a long marathon, or climb a mountain, or swim across an entire ocean. She feels like she could take on the world.
She smiles to herself and chirps, "This is amazing."
Eleanor reminds Maya, "It only lasts a while, Maya. Some Kindred are not satisfied even after 10 or more feedings in a single night. It is quite unfortunate."
The Elder Tremere adds, "But you will get used to it, and it will soon become easier to control."
Maya nods and says, "Yeah. Yeah, I know. I just...I feel so good right now. I feel so STRONG!" She looks at her Sire and asks, "Is this how you feel all the time?"
Eleanor shakes her head, "No, Childe. I have been around for centuries. For an Elder like myself, this feeling of power and strength is much like a pendulum, and it swings back and forth. Sometimes, I feel weak and helpless, and other times, I feel like I could lift a bus."
She adds, "It is simply a matter of control, and you will learn to master it in time."
Maya nods and says, "Yeah. Yeah, I get it. I'll uh...I'll try to control it." She looks at her Sire and asks, "So, what else do I need to know?"
"We shall discuss this when we return."
Maya sees Lucile walking from the other side of the park. She's smiling and waving at Maya. Maya waves back and smiles. She can't help but feel a sense of pride in herself. She's finally done it.
She's finally managed to hunt and to feed without killing someone!
Maya runs towards Lucile and hugs her. She can't help but giggle and laugh. She feels so happy, so excited. She's finally managed to do something that she thought was impossible.
Maya has managed to prove to herself (at least) that she doesn't have to be a monster.
Lucile looks at Maya from head to toe and says, "Hey, you're back! How'd it go?"
Maya eagerly responds, "It went great! I...I dragged someone into a bush and only took what I needed! I didn't kill her!" She excitedly adds, "And I didn't even get caught!"
She pauses for a few seconds and says, "Well, Eleanor saw me, but that's it."
Maya is almost shocked by how gleeful she sounds. She's almost ashamed of it. She's not sure why, but she feels like she should be a lot more ashamed of what she's just done.
It's hard to let go of that feeling in the back of your mind. Not to mention, Maya herself has been fed on, while she was still a mortal. She knows exactly how horrible the aftermath feels.
She didn't know the specifics (and it's not likely she ever will), but now she knows EXACTLY what it's like to have someone bite into you and drink your blood. She knows what it's like to feel the life being drained out of you by a creature of the night.
Then again, not drinking blood isn't exactly an option for vampires who wanna keep "living".
Lucile smiles and says, "That's great! I'm so proud of you!" She pauses for a few seconds and confidently says, "I KNEW you could do it, sweetie. I knew it." She leans in and kisses Maya on the cheek. Maya blushes and smiles.
Maya looks at Lucile and asks, "So, uh, what did you do?"
Lucile shrugs and smiles, "Eh. Same thing you did, I guess." She scratches her cheek and continues, "Some guy dropped his keys, so I snuck up on him when he was picking them up. He didn't even notice me. Easy as pie."
Maya chuckles and asks, "Not your first time, huh?"
"Nooope!" Lucile cheerfully says. She looks at Eleanor and asks, "So, we all ready to go home now?" She looks at Maya and smiles, "I mean, we all ready to go to our Haven?"
Maya giggles. She still can't believe that Lucile asked her to move in. She looks at Lucile and nods her head, "Yeah, let's go."
Eleanor curtly nods and says, "Yes. It might take longer to return to Lucile's Haven, but the sooner we leave, the better."
Maya asks Eleanor, "Why can't we just have our discussions when we're going back?"
Eleanor shakes her head, "It would be improper to discuss such matters in front of Laszlo, for starters. These are things of a sensitive nature that you must know, but which should not be common knowledge."
Maya tilts her head, "How do you mean?"
"It is not something that should be spread around like...hotcakes, Childe. Now, come, let us go."
Lucile shrugs and smiles, "Sure, sure." She and Maya make their way to the SUV, where Laszlo is waiting for them. As they get into the vehicle, the car's engines come to life as they prepare to head back to the Haven.
Maya looks back at the park and sighs. In the back of her mind, she's still worried about that jogger. She's gonna make it, that much is certain, but the poor lady's gonna have a hell of a headache in a few hours.
Maya is starting to understand the reality of her situation, and she's starting to realize the kind of (un)life she'll have from now on.
It's not going to be easy.
Thankfully, she has Lucile and Eleanor by her side.
Other newly-Embraced Kindred are oft-times thrown into the deep end with little but a but a broken paddle, but Maya's got 2 experienced (and relatively powerful) Kindred to help her through this.
That undoubtedly makes it a little bit easier. Either way, Maya's got a big task ahead of her, and she's got a long road to go if she wants to survive (and possibly thrive).
Lucile places her hand on Maya's leg and smiles, looking longingly at her.
Maya smiles back and silently mouths, "I love you."
Lucile mouths, "I love you, too." She follows it up with a wink.
Maya then turns her head and looks over at Eleanor, who is sitting in the front. The Elder Tremere is staring out the window, chin resting on her palm.
Maya takes a deep breath and exhales, trying to focus on the present.
Her first hunt was a success. She can't wait to learn more and Eleanor seems to be in the teaching mood.
The journey back is short (thankfully), but it's still really dark outside, and the roads are still congested. Darker than usual.
Even in the bright light of the moon, there's still a lot of fog, and it's a lot harder to see what's ahead.
It's almost as if the fog itself is aiding the dark, not allowing people to see what's about to happen.
And a lot was about to happen tonight.
Regardless, the trio get back to Lucile's Haven. Laszlo parks the SUV and waits while Lucile, Eleanor, and Maya go inside. They head into the living room.
Eleanor sits on the sofa and says, "We must begin our lessons as soon as possible, Maya. Lucile has her training to attend to."
Lucile gets the hint. She sighs, mutters something to herself, and heads upstairs to prep herself. She still doesn't seem too happy about this arrangement.
Maya looks around the room and asks her Sire, "So, where should we begin?"
Eleanor however sees the longing in Maya's eyes- the longing to be with Lucile.
"There is something I must clarify first, my dear," Eleanor tells Maya.
Maya tilts her head and says, "OK."
"I know your love for Lucile is...strong," Eleanor says, choosing her words carefully. She continues, "And I know that Lucile loves you just as deeply."
Maya nods, "Yeah. Yeah, we...uh, we're like, getting really close, y'know?"
"And that is wonderful. It is rare for Kindred to find true love and not mere alliances of convenience."
Maya nods again and says, "Yeah. Yeah, that's--that's what we got. That's what I...we have. True love. Heh."
Maya continues, "I sense a 'but' coming."
Eleanor slowly nods and continues, "But Lucile's duty to the Ivory Tower comes first, above all else."
Maya looks away, as if suddenly realizing something, "Right. She's got her training and her courier 'job' to attend to, and...I'm just this weird new thing she's gotta keep an eye on."
"No, of course not. That is not what I meant, Childe. We are both responsible for your welfare, and we will do our best to not let you down."
"But...it's still hard. It's still hard to be on my own. I've been like that most of my life. I'm used to...living alone. I'm used to doing things on my own."
"Yes, Childe. I am aware of your past, but you must be patient. You must give yourself time to adjust. You must give Lucile some space to focus on her training. The roads are fraught with peril for her. There are many who would seek to destroy her. And I'm not just talking about the forces of the Second Inquisition."
Maya bites her lip and says, "I--I know. I just wish I could help her out. I just wish I could be there for her, and make sure nothing happens to her."
"I am well aware, Childe. But for now, she MUST focus on her training and her duties. And nothing else."
Eleanor leans in a bit, "I know your desire for her is strong. And I know you are a young lady of passions." She chuckles, "Your desires are as strong as the tides."
Maya chuckles and blushes, "Y--Yeah. You're...yeah. You're right, I guess."
Eleanor sternly states, "But for now, I implore you to control them. It is imperative that Lucile gives the task at hand her undivided attention. Remember, it will only be for a few weeks, Maya. After that, the 2 of you may do as you wish."
Maya nods, "Right. Right. Just...a few weeks. A few weeks. Nothing more." She keeps repeating, "A few weeks."
She takes a deep breath and exhales, "Besides, we got an eternity ahead of us, so what's a few weeks? Heh."
Eleanor replies, "I'm glad you understand, Childe. Now, shall we begin our discussions?"
Maya sniffs and nods, "Yep. No time like the present, eh? Let's go."
Eleanor begins to explain the nature of their Clan, Clan Tremere. She explains how the Clan is subdivided into several secret societies and such.
She tells Maya that the Tremere are very rigid and ritual-driven, and that they are the masters of Sorcery and Thaumaturgy.
"As you are well aware, we are The Children of the Pyramid," Eleanor tells her.
The Elder continues, "It means that we have a certain...reverence for the spiritual concept of the Pyramid. Some are even known to worship it as a god."
Maya slightly grimaces. She's never been big on the whole religion thing and being raised in orphanages by nuns didn't really help.
Eleanor senses this and says, "I know of the younger generation's skepticism regarding such matters. However, many think it is simply a matter of respect, or perhaps a simple way of describing our seemingly complex hierarchy. We are indeed the greatest of Blood Sorcerers, but that does not mean we are without flaws."
She continues, "Tremere are born and bred into a certain mindset, which is the exact opposite of other Kindred- Perfectionism is our Clan's Compulsion, Maya. Nothing but the absolute best will satisfy us. Anything less than that WILL instill in you a profound sense of failure."
Maya says nothing.
Eleanor continues, "You will now find yourself redoing tasks you would have thought easy at one time. This is the cost of perfection- you will HAVE TO keep your actions up to a certain standard, and if you fall short, you will never be able to forgive yourself."
Maya sighs. She's not exactly sloppy, but she's no paragon of perfection either.
Eleanor looks at Maya and says, "I hope you do not have any symptoms of OCD, my dear."
Is that Eleanor's attempt at humor?
Maya lightly chuckles, "Oh, no, no, nope. Absolutely not. Never had a problem with that."
Eleanor narrows her eyes, "It is imperative that you raise your Auspex Levels, Childe. The time of your Proving shall soon be upon you."
The Elder's words get stern, "And I will not tolerate failure. Neither will the House of Hermes."
"How long does it normally take to raise Auspex?" Maya asks.
"It varies, Childe. Read the books I've told you to read and try to focus your mind. It may be easier to see if you have any natural aptitude for the Discipline."
"Can you do it?" Maya asks.
"Of course I can. I am much older than you are, Maya. All of the Clan's Disciplines have been mastered by me by now."
"Oh. Cool!"
Maya asks, "Do you know any spells or cool stuff like that?"
"I know a few 'spells', yes. I suppose I should teach some to you. There are certain Blood Wards that can be useful, and a few minor Thaumaturgical techniques can be helpful, should the need arise."
"What kind of Blood Wards?" Maya asks.
"For starters, the Blood Ward that helps keep those wretched Methuselahs buried underground in your backyard."
She pauses for a few seconds and then says, "It is a relatively simple Ward, requiring a few drops of Vitae and some incantations."
"Oh, right. Those 2," Maya shudders for a bit as she recalls what Lucile told her last night.
"I still can't believe all that happened here," Maya says as she looks around in disbelief.
"It was a...traumatic event for all involved, dear."
"Anything else?" Maya asks.
"Please make sure to read The Travels Of Fedoso as soon as you can. You should understand our Clan's history and its relationships to other Kindred. I think it is important for you to know this. I also suggest you learn as much about the other Societies of our Clan."
"Sure!" Maya says. However, she's not even sure she can read these ancient texts, let alone understand them.
Maya narrows her eyes, "So! Vampires, huh. Crazy. Um...are there other things? Like, uh, what about werewolves? Or zombies?"
"Yes, Maya. There are Werewolves. They are commonly known as the Garou."
She pauses for a few seconds before adding, "But it is best not to ask any more questions about that right now. You will understand in time."
"Awwww, tell me more about these Gah-roo, please, please? Pretty please?" Maya almost begs her Sire.
Eleanor sighs, "Of course, my knowledge of the Garou Nation is rather narrow. I am afraid I can only give you a general overview of the Garou's existence and their role in this world."
She continues, "The Garou are one of the many Changing Breeds- or Fera- that still exist in this world. They are closely tied with nature, and it is rumored that they can hear the whispers of Gaia herself."
"Gaia?"
Eleanor answers, "The Earth, essentially. In both a spiritual and physical sense. I do not know the true extent of their abilities, however."
She pauses for a few seconds before saying, "They are able to change forms at will. And, like us they have existed in the shadows for centuries, some only coming out at night, and for others, during the full moon."
Maya chuckles, "Of course. Of course. What's next, silver bullets?" she asks with a sarcastic tone to her voice.
"Silver is fatal to them, Childe." Eleanor smiles a bit before adding, "It's best you learn more about them when the time comes. I do not believe that now is the right time for such discussions."
Maya raises her eyebrows, "Uh...OK, I guess. So, anything else you wanna share with me? Anything?" She stops for a few moments before adding, "I mean, I want to learn more. I'm curious! I WANNA know."
Eleanor looks Maya in the eye, "Indeed, and you have much to learn, Maya."
Just then, Eleanor starts to hear a faint humming sound in her ear. She clasps her hands together and furrows her brows. The sound grows louder, and the Elder Tremere leans back and closes her eyes.
She can see flashes of red, yellow, and orange light. She can hear sounds of gunfire and screaming. She can feel the cries of pain and sorrow. A war is raging on and it is Beckoning her.
She opens her eyes and says, "E...Excuse me for a moment, Maya." Eleanor slowly rises up from her seat and makes her way outside.
Maya is left alone in the living room as a look of concern spreads across her face. She starts to wonder what just happened. Did she do (or say) something?
Is Eleanor alright? What's happening?
After what seems like a long while, Eleanor walks back into the living room and sits down across Maya.
"You OK, Eleanor? Need me to fetch a glass of water, no wait, uh...Vitae for you or something?"
Eleanor waves her hand in dismissal, "No, thank you. I will feed much later. I just needed a moment to myself."
"What happened?" Maya asks. She notices Eleanor's slightly shaking.
Eleanor takes a deep breath and exhales, "Nothing to concern yourself with, my Childe. Now, where were we? Ah, I believe I have not discussed the 6 Traditions with you yet?"
Maya raises her eyebrows and says, "Uh...we did that last night?" She tilts her head, "You even had me memorize them, remember?"
Eleanor says, "I would've recalled that, Maya. Now is NOT the time to joke about such matters." She pauses for a few seconds before adding, "Regardless, I would like to discuss them now."
Maya sighs, "OK."
So they discuss the 6 Traditions for the second time, although Eleanor seems to think it's the first time they're discussing it. Weird.
After Eleanor makes sure that Maya has memorized them (or done her best to) she starts to tell Maya about the other secret societies within Clan Tremere.
The Elder tells Maya that mere membership or association with certain societies warrants the penalty of Final Death.
The Elder continues, "Should you, by any chance, come into contact with other members of the Third Eye, please make sure to avoid them. Or destroy them."
She shakes her head in sadness, "They bear responsibility for nearly wiping Clan Salubri from this world."
"They what? How?" Maya asks in disbelief.
"It is a...long and complex history spanning many centuries. A shameful matter that has not been discussed since they tried to atone for their wrongdoing."
Eleanor continues, "They, however, are not even the worst."
"Really?" Maya asks with a confused look on her face. She nervously remarks, "How bad can it get? You're kinda making me rethink my choices, Eleanor."
Maya nervously laughs, trying to lighten the mood a bit.
Eleanor, however, continues in a serious tone, "Which is why I am not sure you are ready to hear about what other Kindred are truly capable of, Childe. Perhaps now is not the night for this. I know your mind is still focused on Lucile and I do not blame you for it. I too wish that the both of you could be together without a care in the world. But you are new, Maya. You have so much to learn and so much to master."
Maya sighs, "Uh-huh."
Eleanor reminds her Childe, "Just remember all that I have taught you. Do not forget the Masquerade, Childe. Remember to keep the peace, and know your place in the hierarchy. Obey your Prince for his word is final. Keep your mind open to the possibilities. Do not let yourself be blinded by the flames of anger or jealousy."
Decent advice, all things considered. And considering the fact that Maya has no idea how much she's gonna have to know or understand. This is all pretty overwhelming, even for a vampire.
Maya nods, "Yeah. Will do. I can't wait to meet the Prince and the other Kindred. When can I meet 'em?" she asks eagerly, but also a bit nervously.
Eleanor looks at the clock and says, "It is getting late, Childe. Perhaps we shall arrange something tomorrow night. At the abandoned auditorium where we usually hold our meetings."
Maya looks at the clock and nods her head, "Ah. Auditorium, huh? Sweet! I can't wait!"
She smiles, but it quickly fades as she asks, "Can I ask a question? What if I do something wrong? What if I screw up? What if--"
Eleanor holds up her hand and says, "You will not 'screw up'. Since we are of the Camarilla, it would be wise to brush up on your manners. Be sure to keep a straight back, keep your arms by your side, and maintain eye contact. Make sure your words are short and precise. Do not hesitate, Maya. And do not be afraid to ask for help if you need it. Lastly, do not be afraid when you are given a task by those superior to you."
"S...sure, sure. I got it. Straight back, no hesitating, look 'em in the eye, short words. Yup."
She pauses for a few seconds before asking, "Wait, what kind of tasks?"
"That will be for the Prince to decide, Maya." Eleanor gets up and heads for the front door, "I will return to my Haven now."
She turns her head and adds, "Should you have any doubts, I believe Lucile will help if you ask her. But please make sure that she focuses on her training. Goodnight, Maya."
Maya nods her head and says, "Will do. And thanks. For...well, everything." She adds, "Have a safe trip!"
Eleanor simply nods as she heads out the front door and into her SUV. Maya watches as the car slowly pulls away and disappears into the foggy night.
Maya sighs; she's got a long road ahead of her.
Still, not as long as the literal roads that Lucile's gonna be travelling night after night, delivering and picking up various packages and moving them from Domain to Domain.
At least the cash is supposed to be good.
Lucile comes downstairs, dressed in pink gym shorts and a matching sports bra. She has some white sweat bands wrapped around her wrist. She looks at Maya and smiles. She asks, "Hey. Where's Eleanor?"
Maya bites her lip and says, "Wow. You look...uh, amazing."
Lucile looks at herself and says, "Oh. I know. Heh."
Maya walks towards her and says, "I love this look."
She pauses for a few seconds before adding, "Uh...Eleanor went back to her Haven. So, it's just us now. She told me to make sure you focus on your training."
Lucile raises her eyebrows, "Ah. Gotcha. And what are you gonna do? Night's still young, y'know." She playfully wiggles her eyebrows, "We still got a lot of time for...other things." She smirks.
Maya can't help but smile, "Oh, I'd love to. Believe me. After last night, I'd FREAKIN' LOVE TO. But Eleanor's all 'training this, study that, read this and memorize that'."
Maya takes a deep breath and exhales, "Sorry."
"Nah, it's OK. She can be like that sometimes, but she really cares about her...Childer." She looks around and says, "It's kinda cute how she looks out for us."
She looks Maya in the eye, "Some Sires abandon their Childer, so we should count ourselves lucky to have such an amazing one."
Maya nods in the affirmative.
Lucile puts her hands on her hips, "Well, I got my own stuff to do. If you wanna hang out or something, come upstairs."
"Sure. Gimme a couple of hours. I'm gonna try and read through all those books Eleanor told me to read."
Lucile smiles and reassuringly says, "You got this, sweetie!"
She then goes over to Maya, gently pulls her closer, and gives her a long, passionate kiss.
Maya wraps her arms around Lucile, enjoying the tender moment. They kiss for a while before Lucile finally lets go. She whispers in Maya's ear, "I love you, my poinsettia."
Maya blushes. She loves how Lucile always knows just the right words to say.
"I love you too, Lucile."
"See ya in a few, OK?" Lucile whispers, her smile never fading.
"Yeah, sure." Maya plops herself back on the couch as Lucile heads back upstairs. She looks at the stack of books on the table and lets out an exaggerated sigh.
The first thing she does is pull a book about Auspex towards her. She looks at the cover, "Dusty and worn out. Must be a century old. Sheesh."
Maya flips the cover and sees what looks like a painted portrait of the author.
Alas, the rest of Maya's night is spent poring over tomes that seem to make no sense, trying to understand a Discipline that she's slowly getting good at.
Upstairs, Lucile continues her exercises as a mixture of sweat and blood drip down her body. Those 90s exercise videos are no joke!
And the exercises aren't even halfway done!
Meanwhile, on the other side of this otherwise sleepy town...
Ginny is in her car with Simon in the backseat. The windows are rolled down completely, letting the cold air flow in.
Simon looks around and asks, "Tonight is going to be quite the night, isn't it?"
Ginny looks at him and replies, "'Course it is! So, your Coterie has everything they need?"
"They do. Everything will be taken care of."
"Heh heh." She pauses for a few seconds, and then adds, "So, we rescuing Jon or dusting him like the rest, eh?"
Simon softly chuckles, "Rescue, of course. I have no intention of harming a hair on his head, Ginny. He is the...key to greater things, I believe. Greater things, indeed."
"Good. Good," Ginny chuckles as she steps on the gas, the engine roaring and rumbling.
Simon, his voice as smooth as ever, asks Ginny, "Tell me. How do really feel about Arman? I would've thought that this particular Ventrue would be more...accommodating to our plans."
Ginny turns her head, "He's alright, Simon."
Simon replies, "I have been nothing but accommodating to him, have I not? You, of course, know why this is the case."
"'Course I do, Simon. You don't want your well-laid out plans to fall through. Right?"
She pauses for a few seconds before asking, "How does it feel to be an Elder? All that power? All those centuries of Unlife--" her voice trails off as she realizes that Simon is humming to himself.
Again.
After a while, the Elder Lasombra replies, "It has its advantages, yes, but I prefer not to talk about such things, Ginny."
He continues after pausing and running his hand through his curly hair, "Just remember one thing, Ginny."
"Which is?"
"The Ventrue are a means to an end, nothing more." He chuckles a bit as he adds, "As are the other Clans. They too serve a purpose, nothing else."
"What about that newly-Embraced Tremere bitch?" Ginny asks, a certain tone of contempt in her voice.
"Well, her...Sire has her own particular motivations for this." He looks out the window as the scenery zooms by. He waves his hand in dismissal, "She is of no consequence to us either way."
Ginny sneers, "We shoulda wasted her when we had the chance."
"Right now, I have no desire to start an open conflict with the Tremere. An alliance with The Tzimisce of Flimont City is preferable."
"We got a lot riding on this, huh?"
He responds with a vague "Yes," and continues looking out the window, as if in deep admiration of the landscape and the lights that surround them.
Not too far off, Rolf is driving his master, Arman to the same location, as instructed.
The Ghoul is dressed in a sharp black suit and black dress shirt. A very dapper-looking retainer indeed. His long hair flows down to his broad shoulders, and his eyes are hidden by a pair of round black sunglasses.
Sunglasses at night...
Arman is dressed in a gray suit with a pristine, tailor-made white shirt and off-black tie. He is sitting in the passenger seat next to Rolf, smiling as he looks out the window.
Arman turns his head, and speaks to his Ghoul, "The nights ahead are going to be...interesting, to say the least. I trust that you're well aware of our agenda for this particular night?"
"Yes, master."
"We're going to be partaking in something I'd rather not partake in. But we don't always get a say in things like that, now do we?"
"No, master," Rolf replies as he continues driving towards their destination.
"I hope that you will continue to serve me well, Rolf," Arman asks as he looks at the Ghoul, gauging what his response is going to be.
"I...will do as you command, as I always have, master."
Arman claps, "Excellent. You are truly one in a million. Perhaps, a billion in the sea of mediocrity that is mortal humanity."
"Thank you, Master. Rolf will not fail you."
Arman smiles as he looks back outside.
"Speaking of, I have a task for you tomorrow night. It is regarding...our out-of-town 'friends'. You are to meet them at th--"
He gets cut off by his phone ringing.
"Ah, I was expecting this call. It's from Gen 4 Security. However, it shall have to wait."
He declines the call, clears his throat, and continues, "Now where was I? Ah, yes. That abandoned resort construction site, near some old diner. You are to meet our...'friends' there. Don't worry, I'll give you the instructions and whatnot."
He looks at the clock in the dashboard, "It's all going according to plan."
"What would you have me do, master?" Rolf asks, his eyes never leaving the road ahead.
Arman chuckles, "Well, I can't go. They'll...sniff me out if I go." He looks at his phone again. The phone continues to ring.
"My, my, my. She is quite the persistent one, isn't she? Let me just leave her a quick message."
He taps on his phone keyboard for a few seconds. He narrows his eyes before hitting send.
He then puts the phone on silent and thinks to himself, "So far, everything is going according to plan. Everything has been laid out very nicely. Everything is as it should be."
The Ventrue closes his eyes, a slight grin forming on his face as he remembers the night he first arrived in this town. He recalls the advice of his Sire, and how much things have changed since then.
How far he has come in the mere decades he has "lived" as a Kindred.
A few seconds pass before Arman speaks, "It won't be long before those wretched Thin-Bloods are destroyed, and this town will finally have the new start that it deserves."
He chuckles a bit as he continues, "But, first things first, we have to make sure that the Sheriff sees things our way. Malkavians can be quite...erratic."
"Yes, master," Rolf responds. He, of course, has no idea how that's going to be done, but that's not his concern.
Arman continues, "I suppose that's why they would serve as a much better replacement once the Duskborn are destroyed."
Rolf slightly narrows his eyes and asks, "Very risky plan, no?"
Arman shrugs, "Without risk, there can be no rewards."
Rolf remains quiet.
The rest of the journey is spent in quiet contemplation and soon enough, the 2 make it to their destination.
Not long after, Ginny and Simon pull in as well, and the 4 get out of their respective vehicles.
Ginny gives Arman the stink eye, "Evenin', Arman." She smirks at Rolf, "Rolfy boy." She chuckles, "Heh. Lookin' good."
She pauses for a few tense seconds and demands, "We need to talk, Arman. In private."
Arman sighs, "Yes."
The 2 go over to one side, while Rolf and Simon silently (and awkwardly) look at each other. Rolf decides to remain quiet, and so does Simon.
Both men continue to look around and at each other, making sure nothing is out of place.
Ginny starts, "A hundred and twenty five grand, Arman. A HUNDRED AND FUCKING TWENTY FIVE GRAND, Arman! How am I finding out about Bernice's latest scandal from a fuckin' conversation at a goddamn stationery shop? We had an agreement, Arman!"
She shakes her head in disbelief, "You said she'd be a 'great investment'. YOUR words."
She shakes her head again and whispers, "When I see that loose-tongued Tremere redhead, I'm gonna wring her neck. I don't care if she's new or whatever." She's pissed and $125,000 short.
Arman raises his hands to try and calm Ginny down, "Yes. An unwanted derailing of our plans, no doubt. But a minor setback in the grand scheme of things. I assure you, Ginny, I shall make sure that every last cent is...returned."
He requests, "And please, my dear Ginny, do not destroy Maya. We can't risk the wrath of her Sire and Clan."
He smiles at her as he fervently adds, "Not when we are so close to achieving what we set out to achieve."
He looks at Rolf and Simon and waves them over, "Come, come." The 2 walk over to him.
He takes a deep breath and exhales, "I will take care of it." He continues, "I did not foresee this, but I have an idea on how to...mitigate this latest turn of events."
He looks at Simon and nods his head, "How are things coming along?" he asks, as if in a hurry. He's not a fan of being in the open like this.
Simon steeples his fingers together, "My Coterie should be here soon. Then, we make our move."
Arman groans but he knows there's no backing out now.
Ginny lets out a toothy smile, "Ah. It's been a while." She clenches her fists, "I'm gonna have so much fun tonight." She laughs to herself, almost maniacally.
The others can only watch as she continues to laugh.
Eventually, she stops, shakes her head, turns to Arman and says, "I want my fuckin' money back. I mean it."
She heads towards her car, "I'm gonna go do some scouting, make sure we weren't followed or anything. You boys wait here." She walks away as her figure almost blends in with the darkness.
Arman sighs and shakes his head, "I do not like this one bit."
He turns his attention to Simon and asks, "I trust everything is going according to plan?"
He adds, "Of course, I know changing your mind is a futile endeavor, but know that there will be consequences."
He narrows his eyes and insists, "If things go awry tonight, I will hold you personally responsible, Turncoat."
Simon simply smiles, "Quite the threat...from a Neonate." He pauses for a few tense seconds and continues, "Besides, the so-called consequences shouldn't matter once we're done here, no?"
He chuckles and looks at the sky, "Ah, how...lovely it is to have no restraints upon you."
Arman groans and says to Rolf, "Stay by my side, Rolf." He doesn't want to start anything just yet, but he's got a bad feeling about tonight. A very, very bad feeling indeed.
Not so much about what's going to happen, but what will happen after.
Just then a jet-black sedan pulls up to them and a group of 4 people wearing black suits and sunglasses get out. They nod their heads at Simon and walk towards him.
Simon turns to the Ventrue and smiles, "Arman, meet my Coterie."
A man in his 30s with slicked back hair steps forward and extends his hand out to Arman. Arman shakes his hand as he looks him in the eye and says, "So you must be Simon's 'friends'."
He pauses for a few seconds before continuing, "I assume you all know why you're here, then?"
A short woman in her 20s responds, "To kill the fuckin' McMahons and pull their son out alive, that's why." She turns to Simon and asks, "Can we please get a move on?"
Simon nods and says, "Of course. We shall wait for Ginny to return before we proceed."
The man with slicked hair identifies himself as Jimmy and extends his hand out to Rolf, "Firm grip you've got there, buddy. How long you been workin' for your boss?"
Rolf simply replies, "A while." He doesn't feel like talking to these people. He has no idea who they are and he's not taking any chances.
Not to mention, Arman wouldn't approve of his Ghoul fraternizing with other Kindred. Or even their Ghouls, for that matter.
The Ventrue have a certain rep to uphold.
Jimmy chuckles, "Ah, a man of few words, eh?" He turns to Arman and says, "This one's a keeper, Arman."
Jimmy's gray eyes size up the Ghoul and he jokingly asks, "What are you feedin' this guy? 'Roid sandwiches?" He laughs, clearly amused by his own joke.
Rolf remains silent. He looks around, keeping a close eye on his surroundings. He can't see much, but he's sure there's something lurking in the shadows. He's not sure what it is.
The short woman in her 20s says her name is Bella. Her hair is blonde and cropped short, and she wears a pair of thick-rimmed glasses. She's wearing a black pantsuit and black pumps. She looks like someone's secretary or accountant.
But the aura she gives off is anything but. She looks at the sky and says, "Traffic was nuts on the way here."
A third figure walks towards the group. She looks very identical to Bella. Same look, hair style, everything. However, she's wearing black jeans, boots, a fishnet top, and an open leather jacket. Her hands are covered in fingerless gloves.
She introduces herself as Beth, but she doesn't shake anyone's hands.
Bella groans and says, "My sister, Beth. This is Arman of Clan Ventrue and that's his Ghoul, uh--"
"Rolf."
"Yeah, Rolf." Bella looks around and sniffs the air a bit. She frowns, "I smell us a feast tonight." She grins.
She looks at Arman and narrows her amber eyes, "We're here to make sure that these McMahons are hosed off what's left of their place. Simon tells me you have...objections to this? What's the problem, huh? Never kill before? 'Fraid of getting your Blue-Blood hands all dirty, hmmm?"
Bella puts her hands on her hips and maintains her smug look. She looks at her twin sister, who dryly says, "Bella, stop."
Arman holds his head up high and doesn't reply to this cheap provocation.
The fourth figure slowly makes his way towards the group, muttering something under his breath.
He looks to be in his 30s, clean shaven, with short brown hair and glasses. His clothes are a bit wrinkled, and he looks like he hasn't slept in days. He stops and looks at everyone before speaking, "The Abyss has been whispering to me."
He plays with the crucifix hanging around his neck as his chapped lips shake a bit, "We must watch ourselves." He nods his head and continues, "Yes. Yes. We must watch ourselves."
He looks at the others and says, "Oh. A--apologies, my name's Jacob. Of Clan Lasombra, b--but you already knew that."
"Arman. Of Clan Ventrue, and this is my Ghoul, Rolf."
Rolf simply nods at Jacob.
Arman points to the crucifix and asks, "A rather unusual accessory for an Abyss Mystic, no?" He chuckles a bit and continues, "What's the story behind that?"
Jacob nervously chuckles and looks over to Simon. The Elder simply nods, as if giving him permission to speak.
Jacob continues, "Uh...I'm a devout Catholic. Or as devout as someone like me can be. I was raised that way. My Sire was quite...picky about my faith. I never really questioned it, y'know?"
Arman asks, "Hmmm, very unusual for a creature of the night to still cling on to notions of a god. Or gods, as the case may be."
He tilts his head, "You don't mind if I take a closer look at your crucifix there?"
"Uh, well...not at all. I got it when I was still a mortal. I was...about 16 or so. It's the only thing I have left of my old life, really. So--" He takes a few steps forward, as does Arman.
Arman takes the crucifix in his hand and turns it around a few times, nodding his head as he does. He asks, "How old are you, Mr. Jacob?"
"I...uh...34 years old when I was Embraced. That was way back in the 60s."
Jacob smiles a bit as he continues, "It's a beautiful piece, isn't it?"
Arman smiles as he looks at the crucifix and says, "Of course it is. Tell me, does your faith provide solace despite your...condition? Do you truly believe?"
Jacob shakes his head, "I--I still go to mass and do all that a good Catholic is supposed to do, but it's hard to keep track of everything. Especially when half of our time is spent in day-sleep."
He looks over to Simon and asks, "But...aren't we all still children of God? Even though we're technically damned, right? I mean, some of us are worse than others, but--"
Bella groans, "Booooooooring. Can we just get on with the killing already? I haven't fed since last night cause Simon promised us some fun. I'm starving and I smell a feast waiting to happen."
She grins, her amber eyes turning a shade of yellow for a few seconds.
Simon steps forward, "Ah, yes, as much as I would love to contemplate on life's deeper meanings, we really should proceed with our agenda for tonight."
Ginny returns and informs the rest, "Got a look-see from a distance. Looks like they're home, alright." She turns to Simon and says, "Let's go."
She looks at Bella and the others, "Good to see you again. Been a while, hasn't it?"
Jimmy walks over to Ginny and kisses her on the cheeks, "Ah! Ginny! Good to see you again!" He turns to Bella and Beth and says, "Look, the shadowy sisters are here too! Even brother Jacob decided to give us his blessings!"
He pauses for a few seconds and cajoles, "Y'know, we should meet for coffee sometimes."
Although, the way he says "coffee" is a bit suggestive. He winks at the twin sisters and smiles.
Arman grimaces and clears his throat. Simon asks the others to gather around as they discuss their plan for the night.
Jimmy runs his mouth again, "Damn, last time I saw you all, we were tearin' off some fuckin' Nosferatu's legs and leaving him out for the sun. Man, I hope we get to do shit like that again!"
Ginny smiles, "Well, ya never know." She chuckles.
Jimmy rubs his hands and continues, "Anyway, let's talk business. So, what these McDonalds fucks do, huh?"
Simon steps forward, "McMahons, Jimmy. What they have done is, quite frankly, irrelevant. It is something that Kine do to each other all the time. It's not our primary concern. Arman and his Ghoul will recover Jon while the rest of us deal with the mansion's...occupants."
He looks at Arman and says, "Make sure that Jon is unharmed."
He then turns his attention back to the others and continues, "Once Arman and Rolf have retrieved Jon, they will wait for us to join them. If things go awry, then we shall retreat and regroup at Arman's Haven."
The Elder stares at each member of his Coterie, "If you are up to the task, you are to ensure that no one escapes the premises. No one. And, above all, you are to destroy any and all evidence that would lead back to us."
Ginny chuckles, "Don't worry. After tonight, it's gonna be nothin' but a whole pile of ashes."
She looks at Bella and Beth and says, "And you 2 loose canons better not fuck this up."
She pauses for a few seconds and adds, "Just make sure the job gets done. We got a lot riding on this, OK?"
Jimmy snickers, "Sheesh, Ginny. Chill out. We'll get it done. Don't worry."
He looks at Bella and Beth and assures them, "Don't worry, ladies. We'll make sure you get your fill tonight."
Jacob clears his throat, "I will pray for their souls. Once we have done what we have set out to do, of course." He adds, "I will also pray for us. The Abyss is not something you take lightly."
He looks at the sky and whispers, "I hear the whispers of the spirits of the departed. T--They're calling out to me."
He shakes his head, "No. No. I must resist--"
Arman places his hand on Jacob's shoulder and utilizes his Dominate Discipline in an attempt to calm the twitchy Magister down.
He whispers in his ear, "There is nothing to fear, Jacob. You will do as I command. You will do as Simon commands. Do you understand?" He pauses for a few moments before adding, "Good."
Jacob's lips stop quivering and he nods his head. He looks at Arman and says, "I...I understand." He looks at the sky again and whispers, "T--thank you."
Simon stares daggers at Arman, but he doesn't say anything. It is, after all, considered impolite to use your Disciplines on another Kindred. He simply nods his head and says, "Very well. Let us proceed. The mansion isn't too far from here."
He looks at Arman and says, "You and Rolf will head for the front gate and towards the barn where Jon is being held. I trust that you will be able to handle that, yes?"
Arman, a bit taken aback by such a question, replies, "Of course." He dusts off his suit and adds, "We shall await your arrival once you're...done."
He looks at Rolf and says, "Come, Rolf." The Ghoul follows his master.
As they walk towards the mansion, Arman can't help but feel a sense of dread as the hairs on the back of his neck stand up.
He can feel it in his cold and dead bones. He just hopes that he and Rolf will be able to pull this off. And be able to survive the aftermath of this particular night. He can't help but wonder what his Sire would think of this. Of him. Of the choices he has made.
He wonders if he will ever see Brayden again.
Arman, Rolf, and Simon's Coterie slowly walk over to where the McMahon Mansion is located. It's a large, imposing structure that looks like it was built in the 19th century. There are several fancy cars parked outside, and the lights are on.
The McMahon Mansion stands as a testament to the power and influence of the family in this small town in the American Northeast. Its exterior is a mix of Victorian and Gothic architecture, with intricate stonework and stained glass windows.
The mansion's main entrance is flanked by 2 stone pillars, each topped with a statue of a roaring lion.
The front yard is immaculately landscaped, with lush green grass and neatly trimmed hedges. The driveway is lined with rows of perfectly pruned trees, and the walkway leading up to the front door is paved with smooth, polished stones.
As Arman and Rolf approach the very secluded mansion's front gate, they can't help but notice how quiet and still it is. There are no signs of movement or activity, and the only sound they can hear is the occasional rustling of leaves in the wind.
Further in, lights are on and laughter can be heard coming from the mansion's interior. The smell of freshly-cooked food wafts through the air, and the sound of glasses clinking together can be heard as well.
Arman and Rolf exchange glances and silently agree to continue moving forward, with the Lasombra Coterie not too far behind. Arman looks at the mansion and notices that the windows are all wide open, and the curtains are drawn back.
He can see figures moving around inside, but he can't make out who exactly they are, despite him knowing the McMahons.
He narrows his eyes as he looks at the barn, which is a bit far away from the mansion itself. His attention is immediately drawn to a figure who slinks through the front gate and moves towards them.
Arman looks at Rolf and whispers, "Who is that?"
Rolf clenches his fist and stands in front of his master, ready to protect him.
The figure approaches them and stops. It's a man in his 40s with disheveled brown hair and dark eyes. He's wearing a lightweight, long-sleeved shirt and faded trousers. He must be the Lasombra Ghoul who works as a gardener for the McMahon family.
The Ghoul looks at Arman and Rolf and holds his hands up, "Whoa! Hey, I'm not here to cause any trouble, buddy." He looks at the Lasombra Coterie and says, "Hmmmm. Lemme speak to Simon."
Arman places his hand on Rolf's broad shoulder and tells him to stand down.
He looks at the Ghoul and says, "Simon and his people are not too far behind." He proceeds to ask, "We are here to retrieve Jon McMahon. Can you tell us how he's doing?"
The Lasombra Ghoul shrugs, "Sheesh, man. Screaming all day and night. Men go in with cattle prods and Bibles. They come out with their hands full of cash. I don't know what the hell they're doing to that poor guy, but it ain't good."
He looks at the mansion and continues, "They got 2 goons guarding the barn. Armed. Small pistols. Shouldn't be too hard...for you guys."
He looks at Arman and says, "Just lemme get the hell outta here before you do whatever it is you're gonna do, OK? I got a game to catch later tonight."
He looks at the approaching Lasombra Coterie and says, "Ah! Mr. Simon."
Simon walks over to the Ghoul and shakes his hand, "Hello, Selby. How are you doing?" He looks at Arman and makes an introduction, "This is Selby. He's a Ghoul who's been working for the McMahons for a few months now."
He turns his attention back to Selby and asks, "How's your Domitor doing? It's a shame that Mrs. Cordoza wasn't able to join us tonight."
He pauses for a few seconds and continues, "I trust that everything is going according to plan?"
Selby holds back a chuckle, "Mrs. Cordoza?! You 2 need to talk more, heh. Nah, she got divorced a few weeks ago. I guess that's why she's been so...aggressive lately. But yeah, she's doin' fine. She's at her Haven, finalizing some paperwork. Who would've thought reverting back to your maiden name would be such a pain in the ass?" He laughs a bit and shakes his head.
He looks at the rest of the Coterie and says, "You better get going, just...lemme leave first, alright?"
He looks around and then says, "See ya." He heads away from the mansion, leaving the others to do their thing.
Simon clears his throat. Something that stops Selby in his tracks. The Elder Lasombra says, "Please...give Ms. Steiner my regards. Tell her that I would like to speak with her when she is free."
He pauses for a few seconds and says, "I'd like you to inform Mrs. Cordoza, excuse me, Ms. Steiner that I have a proposition for her. Something that I believe will benefit both of us greatly."
Selby turns around and nods, "Yeah, yeah, sure. I'll let her know." He mumbles something to himself and continues walking towards his bicycle which is parked just a few feet away from the mansion.
"And one last thing, Selby."
Selby conceals a groan, "Hmph. What?"
"I would suggest finding a new job. The McMahons are not going to last much longer." Simon smiles as he says this.
Selby simply shrugs and says, "S--sure. Whatever, man." He gets on his bike and pedals away.
Jimmy does a wolf whistle, "So, lady Cordoza is back on the market, huh? Man, I gotta get me some of that."
He turns to Bella and Beth and says, "That husband of hers- real piece of work. Spanish, I think. Really tall guy."
He chuckles and continues, "But yeah, she's got a nice place up in the hills. I heard she used to be a nun back in the day. And a pretty good one too."
Bella and Beth simply roll their eyes and look at each other. Jacob shakes his head and mutters something under his breath.
Ginny simply sighs and says, "Enough gossip. Sheesh! Let's just get this over with."
She looks at Arman and Rolf and barks at them, "You 2 go do your thing!"
Arman says, "There's 2 guards out front." He cracks his knuckles, "Don't worry. I can deal with them myself." He turns to Rolf and says, "Let's go."
The Ventrue and his Ghoul walk towards the barn, while the Lasombra Coterie head towards the mansion.
Arman lowers his stance and begins to slowly move towards the 2 guards.
2 men in white shirts, suspenders, and navy blue pants stand guard in front of the barn. One of them is pacing back and forth while the other one is fiddling with his phone. They don't seem to be paying attention to their surroundings.
Arman and Rolf slowly approach a large stack of hay, careful not to make any noise. The last thing they want is to alert the occupants of the mansion (or the 2 men outside, guarding the barn). Arman signals for Rolf to stay put as he slowly picks up a nearby pitchfork.
He takes a deep breath and tosses it a few meters away from the 2 guards.
It hits the ground with a loud thud, startling the 2 men. They immediately reach for their pistols and look around. They can't see or hear anything.
One guard cautiously says, "Go, see what that was."
The other guard nods and heads towards the direction of the pitchfork. He looks around and doesn't see anything. He looks at the pitchfork and kneels down to examine it.
His partner approaches the bales of hay and starts looking around. He can't see anything. He hears a noise coming from behind him.
He turns around and sees Arman standing there.
The Ventrue immediately uses his Dominate Discipline on the guard, causing him to freeze in place. He commands the guard to remain still. The guard obeys. He looks at the other guard, who's still kneeling down and examining the pitchfork.
Arman, with a certain sense of urgency, commands the guard to stand up and walk over to his partner. The guard complies. He commands the guard to aim his pistol at his partner's head. The guard's hand is shivering, trying to resist the vampire's hold. But he has no choice, so he obeys.
Arman commands the guard, "Shoot him." Tears roll down the Dominated guard's face as he pulls the trigger. A loud gunshot echoes throughout the area, and the other guard falls to the ground. His body twitches a bit before going still. Blood pools around his head.
The guard cries, "N...no! W--what'd I do?!"
Arman shakes his head and orders the guard to shoot himself. The guard reluctantly raises his pistol to his head and squeezes the trigger. Another loud gunshot rings out. The guard's body falls to the ground, lifeless.
Arman looks at Rolf and says, "That, my friend, is how you deal with these kinds of situations."
He then looks at the mansion and notices that the lights are still on. He can hear laughter and music coming from inside. He looks at the barn and says, "It's a good thing the barn is not right next to the mansion..."
He looks at Rolf and says, "Come. Let's go." The 2 enter the barn, but neither were prepared for what awaited them inside.
Jon McMahon is strapped to a chair, his arms and legs bound by thick ropes. He's been stripped down to his underwear, and his body is covered in cuts, bruises, and what look like burn marks. His head is slumped forward, and he's barely conscious.
He's clearly been tortured for quite some time.
There's a galvanized iron bucket with flies buzzing around it next to Jon. It doesn't take too much of an imagination to guess its contents. Being a vampire does come in handy in situations like this.
Rolf, on the other hand, covers his nose. The smell is too much for him.
Rolf curses, "Verdammt (DE: Goddammit)!"
Jon's breathing is shallow, and he's sweating profusely. Arman immediately rushes over to him and tries to untie the ropes binding him. He looks at Rolf and says, "We need to get him out of here. Now!"
The Ghoul nods and says, "I will help untie the ropes." He holds his breath and walks over to Jon. He starts untying the ropes binding his wrists. Arman does the same for Jon's ankles.
After a few minutes, Jon is free. He groans, barely conscious. Arman notices a few discarded syringes on the floor. He looks at Rolf and says, "My god! They've been drugging him!"
Rolf nods and says, "I will carry him." Arman picks up one of the syringes and pockets it. He helps Rolf lift Jon onto his shoulders. The Ghoul grunts a bit but manages to carry the young man.
Arman looks at Jon and says, "We're getting you out of here, Jon."
Jon can barely muster the strength to reply, "Hmph? Hmm..." He passes out.
Arman looks at Rolf and says, "Let's go." They exit the barn and head towards the front gate. They don't see anyone.
Arman orders Rolf, "Put him in the car and WAIT. As much as I would like to take this poor man to a hospital, we need to wait for the others."
He looks at the mansion and sighs, "They should be done soon." He looks at the mansion and notices that the lights are starting to flicker.
Rolf carries Jon over to the car and gently lays him down on the backseat. He closes the door and waits for his master. Arman looks at the mansion and notices that the lights are flickering even more.
He shakes his head as he puts his hands in his pockets, a look of dread and uncertainty on his face. He can't help but wonder what's going on inside. He's heard rumors and stories about how the Lasombra operate and is well aware of their Compulsion for Ruthlessness.
But he's never actually seen a Coterie of them in action. He's not sure what to expect.
And, to be honest, he's not sure if he wants to find out. He thinks to himself, "I better dispose of those 2 guards. Maybe even have a look around that...ghastly barn."
Meanwhile, Ginny waits for her cue at the front door. Beth and Bella scale the walls of the mansion and slip through an open window on the 2nd floor.
Jimmy and Jacob sneak around the side of the mansion and enter through the back door. Simon simply stands in the middle of the front yard, staring at the mansion.
Simon stretches out his hands to his sides and closes his eyes. He whispers something under his breath, and the shadows around him begin to grow to life and stretch. They slowly creep towards the mansion, engulfing it in darkness.
The lights inside flicker and die.
Gasps and shattering glass can be heard from within the mansion.
Ginny chuckles and says, "Showtime." She then uses her Potence Discipline to kick the heavy front door open. Not even a battering ram could do what she just did.
She smiles as she enters the mansion. She hears someone command, "Go see what that was!"
Footsteps hastily descend the stairs, and a man wearing a black suit and tie appears. He's holding a phone in his hands. The flashlight is on. He shines it around, trying to find the source of the noise.
The beams of the flashlight slowly flicker across the room. Ginny hides among the shadows. The man notices the door, which is bashed open. He calls out, "Hello? Who's there?"
He walks towards the door and shines his flashlight outside. He doesn't see anyone. He hears a noise coming from behind him. The sound of claws being unsheathed draws his attention.
He turns around and sees a shadowy figure standing in the middle of the grandiose foyer.
The man squints, "Who...are you?" Ginny rushes him and slashes a chunk of flesh off his face with her claws. He screams in pain and drops his phone. He falls to the ground, clutching his bleeding face.
Ginny leans down and says, "You're ALL gonna die tonight." She grabs him by his neck and viciously rips his organs out. Blood gushes out of the hole in his stomach. He dies a slow and painful death.
Ginny licks the blood off her fingers and says, "Hmmm, not bad. Could use a little salt, though."
She hears a female's voice coming from upstairs, "What is going on down there?!"
That voice is quickly muffled as Bella and Beth drag whoever it was into a room. Ginny hears the sound of bones snapping and flesh tearing.
She chuckles, "Ah, the twins are at it again."
She takes a look around, as her eyes glint against the moonlight seeping in from outside. The foyer is a mess. The chandelier's bulbs are busted, and there are shards of glass everywhere.
There's a pool of blood on the floor, and the man's body is lying in the middle of it, organs freshly ripped out of his body.
She hears footsteps coming from the other end. The hallway is dark. Ginny slowly walks down it, her heels clicking against the hardwood floor. Jimmy and Jacob signal for Ginny to stop.
Jacob closes his eyes and begins muttering something.
Jimmy sneers, "Now is not the time, man! Get to work already!"
Jacob takes a deep breath and continues to mutter. After a few moments, a cold draft permeates through the air, and a series of whispers can be heard coming from within the shadows themselves.
Jacob shakes his head, "I...can't hold them back for long."
Ginny groans and says, "Jacob! What are you--" She is cut off by Jacob's muttering.
Jimmy says, "Fuck this, I'm going upstairs to join the party. Gonna get me some McMahon blood tonight!"
The twins drag a mangled body down the stairs and toss it on the ground, next to the recently disemboweled man. They're covered in blood and have an eager look in their eyes.
Simon walks in, his eyes totally black, dark vapors emanating from his open mouth. He whispers something and raises his arm. Shadows stretch from his fingertips, twisting into various shapes and forms.
Jacob then mutters something else under his breath, causing another strange wind to blow through the area.
Simon gently says, "4 more to go. Upstairs. Now."
Jimmy smiles and bolts up the stairs. He stops on the 3rd step and looks down at everyone, "Man, if I didn't know any better, I'd say it sounds like there's a fuckin' ghost here or something."
Ginny shakes her head and dismisses his remark. The twins laugh and follow Jimmy upstairs. Ginny and Simon stare at each other before heading to the next floor.
Jacob looks around and sees something moving within the darkness. He narrows his eyes, trying to figure out what it is.
Simon places his hand on Jacob's shoulder, causing him to recoil in surprise. The Elder Lasombra says, "Come, Jacob. There are things that need to be done." He then leads him to the next floor.
They all regroup, with Simon taking point and leading everyone down a long corridor.
There's a loud crash as someone is thrown into a wall. A young woman screams, "NO!! Please! NO!!!!" Bella's eyes widen in delight. The others look on as Bella sinks her fangs into the woman's neck. She's completely helpless as Bella drains her dry.
The pale body eventually slumps down onto the floor. Bella's eyes widen even more, her pupils dilating as her Hunger is sated.
For now.
Jimmy snickers, "Still hungry? There's a guy who just donated his organs, if you wanna try. Never let a good meal go to waste." Bella grins and heads back downstairs, leaving her twin sister to join the others.
Beth repeatedly slashes a man with such fury and speed. Her eyes are burning yellow, and her hair is whipping around.
Ginny laughs and says, "Whoa, slow down, speedster."
Beth is heaving heavily as the body falls to the floor in front of her. Blood spills on the carpet.
Beth turns to face Ginny and growls, "Stay back! He's MINE." She has that feral look in her eyes. The others slowly step away from Beth and let her be.
The smell of fresh blood is too much to resist. It doesn't take too much for Beth to fall for its sweet temptation. She gets down on all fours and slowly licks the pool of blood around the corpse.
Her fangs pierce the dead man's leg as she makes sucking noises. Ginny laughs even harder. Simon and the others walk away from this scene.
Jacob is clearly unsettled by it. Simon nonchalantly says, "I taught her to go for the legs." Jacob just nods his head, clearly trying to remain calm and composed.
Simon places his hand on his shoulder again, this time making Jacob slightly wince in pain, "I'll leave the McMahon patriarch for you."
The Elder Lasombra walks away, smiling as the shadows engulf him. Jacob closes his eyes, muttering something under his breath, a prayer perhaps. He opens them again and looks around the dark hallway.
Jacob slowly makes his way to one of the rooms. He hears an angry and gruff voice yell, "WHAT THE HELL IS GOING ON OUT THERE??!! SOMEONE ANSWER ME!!!!"
The lights flicker as he makes his way down the dark corridor. His footsteps echoing loudly in his ears.
The same angry voice barks, "Someone call the police! NOW!" There are some hurried footsteps in the background. Jacob breathes in and out as he pulls his crucifix up to his lips and kisses it.
His steps are hasty and somewhat loud. The door to the room he's heading to is closed. He violently pulls the door off its hinges, his face twisted into that of rage.
A stout, bald, bearded man in his 70s stands there in shock. He's dressed in a business suit, and he has an expensive-looking watch on his right hand.
The man, clearly the McMahon patriarch, is startled and gasps, "WHAT THE--"
Jacob rushes towards him and slashes the man's face, instantly disfiguring him. The man screams in agony and stumbles back.
He falls over a table and hits the floor with a loud thud.
"SILENCE," Jacob growls. The man looks at the Lasombra in fear as blood spills down the left side of his face. He's holding his face with his hands, trying to stop the bleeding.
He pleads for his life, "I--I got money! I--I can pay you! Whatever you want!"
Jacob sneers, "There is only one thing that you can pay me with!" He moves to the left and slashes the man again, cutting open his right side and tearing that fancy business suit across the chest.
The man's shirt is soaked in blood. He cries in agony and stumbles back.
He clutches his disfigured face in pain, trying to stop the blood from gushing out. But it's a futile attempt as blood seeps through the gaps between his fingers and stains his once immaculate suit.
Jacob watches as the man collapses to the ground in pain. The Lasombra then kneels down and pierces the man's throat with his fangs, drinking every last drop of the man's blood.
With blood still dripping down his lips, Jacob whispers, "Dust to dust, ashes to ashes."
An older woman screams out in fear as she runs away from Simon, who's chasing after her. The Elder Lasombra chases the woman into a small room, which is a bedroom with an attached bathroom.
The woman frantically looks at the window, which is wide open. She screams, "GET AWAY FROM ME!!"
Simon tilts his head as he takes his sweet time walking over to her. The woman falls onto the bed as Simon stands there, smiling. She cries in horror, "S--stay away!! STAY AWAY!!"
Simon chuckles as he places his hands on the woman's shoulders and gently whispers, "Shhhh. It will all be over soon." He tightens his grip around the woman's shoulders as her eyes widen in horror. She tries to struggle but to no avail.
He forces her to look into his blue eyes. She looks terrified as he smiles and says, "Don't panic. There is nothing to fear."
It has the opposite effect as she cries, "Let go of me!!" She struggles and wiggles around, but the Elder's grip is tight and determined.
The woman is in shock as black, misty vapors come out of the Elder Lasombra's mouth. Simon growls, revealing his razor-sharp fangs. He then pulls the McMahon matriarch to the window and tosses her out of it.
She screams in agony as glass shatters, cutting her open in various places.
Blood gushes out from the numerous cuts on her body. The woman falls to the ground, breaking several bones in the process. She tries to crawl away, gripping the grass as tight as possible.
She looks back at the window, tears falling from her eyes, as Simon leaps down and hits the ground with a thud.
Blood trickles from his hands. He licks it as he makes his way to her. The woman looks at him with sheer terror and pain. She screams out in agony as he leans over her, his eyes as black as the Abyss he is about to send her to.
He places his hand on her mouth and forces her to stand up. Her legs are almost broken, so she struggles to stand on her own.
Simon slowly whispers, "Come now. That won't do at all. I thought you'd have a little more fight in you." He clicks his tongue, a bit disappointed.
The woman tries to scream for help, but Simon muffles the sound, "No one is coming to save you. No. One."
Simon musters up all of his strength and lifts the woman up with a single hand. He then flings her back into the window she was just thrown out of.
Clearly, the Elder likes to...toy with his prey. He watches as the woman lands back on the floor. Her body is limp as she coughs up blood. He smiles as he watches the last remnants of her life force slowly leaving her.
He jumps back in with little to no effort and kneels beside the dying woman, "Oh, how embarrassing." He looks into the woman's fearful eyes, and she can't help but whimper as she sees his blue eyes change into black pools of darkness.
He smiles as he bites her throat open, fangs sunk deep. Her body twitches a few times before going completely limp.
Jimmy does a slow clap and whistles, "Damn! That was cold, Simon."
The Elder Lasombra wipes some blood off his mouth as he stares at the woman's lifeless body and replies, "It's...been a while since I've...indulged myself." He turns to face Jimmy and opines, "It's quite exhilarating."
He smirks as he licks the blood off his fingers, "I could get used to this."
Jimmy notices that the now-deceased McMahon matriarch is clutching something in her hands. He kneels down and pries her fingers open. It's a small golden pendant with a blue gemstone on it. Jimmy whistles, "Nice! Now we're talkin'!"
He also notices her heavy necklace, which looks like it's made from real gold. He grins as he grabs it and rips it off of her neck. He examines it closely, looking at it from different angles. He nods, "Aw shit! This is gonna be good!"
Jimmy then pulls out various rings and bracelets off of her fingers and wrists. He chuckles as he looks at them and puts them in his pocket, "Heh. I think this little trip was worth it, Simon." He chortles as he attempts to shove the rest of the jewelry into his pockets. It's not working too well.
They're way too small.
He huffs and says, "I need a fuckin' bag." He looks around and doesn't see anything.
He asks Simon, "You mind holding on to some of this for me?"
Simon replies in the negative and walks out of the room, so Jimmy gathers all the loot in his hands and follows him. He walks down the dark corridor, whistling a tune. He stops dead in his tracks as he hears a noise coming from the room to his left. It's Beth and Bella.
They're arguing.
Jimmy looks at them and asks, "What's up with you 2?"
Bella looks at her twin sister and grunts, "Nothing."
Jimmy smiles and says, "Y'know, if it's something you wanna talk about--"
"Fuck off," Beth snaps. She then storms out of the room. Jimmy raises an eyebrow and looks at Bella, who's still standing there with a pissed-off look on her face.
He walks over to her and asks, "What's got Bethany all riled up?"
Bella scoffs and walks out of the room. Ginny just finished dragging the last body down to the foyer. Not that she needs to, but the Coterie wants to make sure that every last member of the McMahon family is dead (except for Jon, of course).
It's only proper, after all.
Ginny takes a deep breath and stretches, "Finally! That's the last one." She notices Beth and Bella walking towards her.
"Eat well tonight?"
Bella shrugs, "Was expecting more, but eh."
Beth scratches her head and paces around while Simon and Jacob slowly come downstairs.
Bella asks Jimmy, "What's all that junk you got in your hands?"
Jimmy smiles and replies, "Jewelry, rings, bracelets, you name it. I...need it." He looks at Simon and says, "I got gambling debts to pay, man."
Simon doesn't seem too interested by something so small but Jimmy continues, "I owe these fuckin' Anarchs down in Las Estrellas like 20 large, man. And they want it soon. I can't give it to them because I don't have that kinda money lying around, so I figure I'll just pawn this. It should be enough to cover most of what I owe them."
Ginny chuckles, "Well, at least wash 'em before you pawn 'em off, dummy."
She notices the Elder Lasombra and says, "Well, let's get to doing...the other thing. Y'know," her voice is lower now.
Simon nods and says, "Yes. Jacob?"
"I'm...uh, right here."
Jacob takes a deep breath and invites everyone to stand around in a circle. He tells everyone to hold hands.
Jimmy, his hands full, narrows his eyes, "Wha...But--" One of the twin sisters walks over to Jimmy and smacks the bloody jewellery out of his hands.
She then grabs his hands and forces him to hold hands with the rest of the Coterie.
Jimmy sighs, "Gee, thanks a lot."
Jacob takes a deep breath and shuts his eyes. With hands held tight, the Coterie stands there in silence as Jacob begins chanting something under his breath. The temperature in the room starts to drop, and a cold wind blows through the area.
Jimmy shivers a bit and asks, "Uh, what's he doing?"
Ginny whispers, "Shut up and focus!"
Jimmy can't help but open his eyes and look down at the loot. He shuts his eyes as he feels his hands starting to go numb. He can feel something dark and powerful building up around him.
The others seem to be in a trance. Their eyes are closed, and their lips are moving.
After a few moments, the entire Coterie starts to levitate a few inches off the ground. They all slowly begin to float around in a circle.
Jimmy opens his eyes and gasps. His jaw drops as he realizes that he's hovering in the air. He tries to move his legs, but he can't.
He tightens his grip on the others' hands as the Coterie continues to hover in the air. Jimmy can't help but feel a sense of unease. He can hear a low hum in his ears.
The room around him begins to fade away as the darkness swallows the Coterie whole.
As the Coterie levitates in the air, Simon opens his eyes and whispers, "Almost there, Jacob." The other Abyss Mystic nods his head, his eyes shut. The room begins to tremble as the lights flicker on and off.
The doors fling open, glasses on the tables shatter, and the windows shake.
The Coterie is still holding hands in a circle. Ginny looks at Jimmy and says, "Don't. Let. Go." Jimmy gulps as he feels the pressure in the room increasing.
The temperature shoots up to an unbearable level as the darkness around the Coterie grows even more intense. The Elder Lasombra's eyes are glowing, and Jacob's eyes are glowing as well. Jacob's lips are moving faster now, and the shadows are growing thicker around him.
Suddenly, a loud roar pierces through the darkness as a huge fireball shoots out of the ground. The flames slowly begin to engulf the mansion, and the room around them explodes into a fiery inferno.
Immediately, everyone's Rötschreck is triggered. Except for Simon, on virtue of being an Elder more in control of the Beast within than most Kindred. The Coterie screams as the flames surround them.
Jimmy, Ginny, Bella, and Beth drop to their knees and cover their ears, hissing and growling in pain as the flames approach to lick their flesh.
Jacob grits his teeth and closes his eyes, trying to keep himself composed. He's struggling to maintain it. The Coterie is surrounded by flames, and they can't seem to break free. Jimmy scratches at the ground as his claws involuntarily pop out, and his fangs unsheath.
He's trying his best to stay calm, but it's no use.
He screams out in agony as he feels the heat. In a rare moment of clarity, he grabs most of his loot and bolts out the front door at the speed of a supersonic jet. Simon shakes his head as he watches this pathetic display.
Bella and Beth follow suit, screaming in pain as the room grows hotter. They drop to the floor, their clothes almost burning off as they try to crawl away.
Ginny curses under her breath and follows suit, also crawling towards the exit.
The unnatural flames have now made their way to the top of the ceiling. They slowly begin to consume the entire mansion, engulfing everything in their path. The entire building is consumed by fire, and the windows shatter. The walls collapse, and the pricey furniture is burned to ashes.
The flames are mere inches from Jacob's face when Simon grabs him and throws him out of the building, through the front door. He then walks out, casually. The Elder Lasombra is mostly unfazed by the heat and fire.
He takes a deep breath as he walks outside and looks back at the burning mansion.
He takes one final look around as the intense light reflects off his ice-cold, blue eyes and says, "Good. Good." He smiles as the flames consume the last of the mansion. He turns around and walks away from the burning inferno.
He can hear his fellow Coterie members writhing and screaming in pain.
Their clothes are mostly tattered and they smell of burnt flesh. Simon says, "Come. Let us leave this place."
Jacob, his eyes still glowing, nods his head, gets up, and follows Simon. The others groan as they slowly stand up, their clothes and hair singed.
It's a miracle they even survived this.
Jacob, who is shivering, remarks, "It...was hard controlling...that much power."
Simon pats him on the back and says, "You did well."
The Elder Lasombra and his Coterie slowly make their way out of the property and towards the barn.
Arman is there, pacing back and forth, fingers on his chin. His eyes widen in relief as he sees his Coterie approach, "Thank god! I thought you were done for!"
Ginny looks at Arman and says, "Hey, we had it all under control."
Although, her appearance would say otherwise.
Rolf comes up, panting. Arman asks him what's wrong and the Ghoul replies, "Jon. Had stroke. Was...shaking and convulsing in car."
Ginny gasps and asks, "Is he--"
Rolf shakes his head and says, "No...he is alive. But not looking good."
Jimmy curses, "Goddammit. What a fuckin' night."
Simon looks at everyone and says, "Come. We must leave. Now."
Bella and Beth slowly walk over to the car, their bodies still sore.
Arman asks, "What about the barn? There's 2 bodies in there."
Simon replies, "The fire will come for it. Eventually."
Simon speaks to Jimmy and Jacob. They're talking in very hushed tones. Jacob, in particular, seems very agitated. The Elder Lasombra is trying to calm him down.
Jimmy sighs, "OK, we'll grab him. Don't worry."
With that, Bella, Beth, Jacob, and Jimmy get back in their car and drive away. Ginny says, "We better get going, too."
Simon nods in agreement and says, "We shall meet in Arman's Haven. I've already taken the liberty of giving Brock the address. He should be able to get there."
Ginny looks at the burning mansion and smiles, "Well, that was fun."
Arman, a bit angered, shoots back, "You gave that Stoker my address?!" He then waves his hand in dismissal, "Anyway, I've made my terms fairly clear. He is to take Jon and leave as soon as possible."
Simon nods, "Of course. Although, I thought you would have a change of heart after seeing Jon's condition."
The Ventrue scowls. There's no doubt that Jon is in bad shape (and that's putting it mildly).
Simon continues, "After all, the Tzimisce are known for their...incredible hospitality. Wouldn't it be appropriate to allow the man to stay with you for a night?"
Arman grunts, "That...thing must learn to respect my Haven, in accordance with the Second Tradition."
Simon just smiles as he shrugs his shoulders and concedes, "Very well, then."
Simon gets in Ginny's car and she drives away. Arman looks at his Ghoul and says, "When we get home, make sure the basement is locked tight. I don't want any one of our 'guests' getting any bright ideas."
Rolf nods his head and says, "I will make sure of it, master."
Arman takes a look at the raging fire as it slowly crawls towards the barn, "You're a good man, Rolf."
"Danke (DE: Thanks). As are you, my master."
He turns around and walks towards his car. Rolf follows him. As they get in, he says, "Let us go home. This place has already seen enough death."
The Ghoul starts the engine and drives off, leaving the burning McMahon mansion behind, the fires slowly having their way with this once opulent mansion and its surroundings.
In a town as quiet and (seemingly) peaceful as this one, it would seem rather uncharacteristic of there to be so much chaos brewing on the horizon. And yet, here we are.
Traffic is as heavy as ever. Fire trucks speed past Arman's car as they make their way towards the burning mansion. The sirens blare loudly as the lights flash. Arman looks at the fire trucks and shakes his head.
He still can't believe that the Lasombra Coterie actually managed to set fire to the McMahon mansion.
Smoke billows can be seen from afar, and the sound of sirens fills the air. Arman sighs and sourly remarks, "What a mess."
Rolf nods his head and says, "Ja."
Arman looks at the road ahead and says, "And yet, the night has only begun."
Arman and Rolf eventually get home after what feels like hours stuck in traffic. The Ghoul parks the car in the garage and shuts the door. He walks to the front door and unlocks it. Arman steps inside and takes a deep breath.
He smells the familiar scent of his Haven.
He only has a few minutes before Ginny and Simon show up. So, he goes down to the basement, with Rolf following him. He opens the door and walks down the stairs.
The basement is dark and cold. He turns on the light and walks over to one of the rooms.
He unlocks the door and grabs a young woman by her arm.
She's dazed and has a blank look on her face. Arman smiles and says, "Just need something to take the edge off." The woman weakly nods her head and tilts her head to the side, exposing her neck.
Arman's fangs unsheathe as he bites into the woman's neck. He drinks her blood until she's gasps.
Like any good vampire, he licks her wound shut. He places her limp (albeit still breathing) body back in the room and locks it.
He wipes the blood off his mouth with the back of his hand and says, "Ahhh, that's better." He closes the door and heads upstairs. Rolf follows him closely.
Arman orders his Ghoul, "Get the bagged stuff out from the freezer. And a few shot glasses."
Rolf nods his head and walks over to the kitchen. He opens the large fridge and pulls out several bags of blood. He then places them on the counter.
Rolf opens the cabinets and pulls out some shot glasses. He places them on the counter as well. Lastly, he pulls out an elegant silver serving tray with golden handles.
He pours the sanguine contents into the shot glasses on the tray and carries it to the living room. He sets it down on the large coffee table.
Arman, who is relaxing on the sofa, smiles and says, "Good work. Also, I need you to prep the guest rooms. How is Jon doing, by the way? Any changes?"
Rolf shakes his head and says, "No, master. He is still unconscious."
Arman nods his head and says, "Very well. Prep the guest rooms and make sure that the basement is locked tight."
Rolf curtly bows his head before heading off to do as instructed. The Ventrue, with a little time to himself, lays his head back and sighs. He ponders upon the events that transpired tonight.
He wonders how things will play out in the coming nights.
Will he be able to keep the new 'guests' in town under control?
Or will he have to resort to drastic measures?
He pulls out his phone and notices a text message from Maybelline, Director Of Operations at Gen 4 Security.
He opens it and reads it: "Hello, Mr. Arman. I just wanted to ask if you would be available to discuss the details of the contract for your security detail. Let me know ASAP. Regards, Maybelline."
Arman's thumbs hover over the keyboard. He's not sure what to say. He eventually decides to reply: "Yes, I'm available. Let's meet at my home tomorrow night. Regards, Arman." He sends the message.
Within seconds, a reply comes in: "I'll see you then."
Arman smiles and puts his phone away. He takes a deep breath and closes his eyes. He can't help but feel a sense of unease, which is why he's hiring some extra (and very expensive) muscle.
He's heard good things about Gen 4 Security, so he figures that they'll be able to handle any potential threats.
Plus, he's got to have a contingency plan...in case things go south. He's not sure what the future holds, but he knows that he has to be prepared for any scenario.
One of the many lessons his much younger (in appearance) Sire taught him.
But Brayden was centuries old, and yet he took interest in an office drone from North India diligently burning the midnight oil.
And now, here he is, a vampire of The Clan of Kings. It's funny how (un)life works out sometimes. But it's also a bit scary.
While Arman reminisces, a knock is heard on his door. He opens his eyes and gets up to answer the door. The door opens and Ginny walks in. She smiles and says nothing.
Simon stands outside, hands clasped in front of him.
The Elder Lasombra asks, "Are you going to invite me in, Arman?"
Arman winces, "My god, I would think that an esteemed Elder like yourself wouldn't fall for all those silly vampire clichés." He shakes his head and gestures to the Elder Lasombra to come in.
Simon nods his head and walks inside.
He shuts the door behind him.
Arman leads them to the living room, where the shot glasses are waiting. Simon looks around the mansion and nods in approval, "You've made quite the name for yourself, Arman."
The Ventrue smiles and smugly says, "Nothing but the best, of course."
He gestures to the shot glasses and says, "Please, help yourselves to some light refreshments."
Ginny bites her lip and looks a bit disappointed, "Aww. I was hoping for, y'know, your special 'organic' stuff."
Arman gets a bit nervous and tries to change the subject, "Not now, my dear Ginny..."
Ginny pouts and sits down on the couch.
Simon says, "I am well aware of Clan Ventrue's...Rarefied Tastes. Don't worry, whatever it is, your secret's safe with us. Right, Ginny?"
Arman relaxes just a bit and says, "Hmph."
Simon picks up a glass and drinks the blood. He savors the taste and says, "Mmm, very nice."
Ginny dryly replies, "Sure." She grabs 2 shot glasses and downs them both in quick succession.
Arman raises an eyebrow and asks, "You don't like it?"
Ginny shrugs, "It's fine, I guess."
Arman sits down and starts speaking with the 2 Lasombra, "So, about our 'guest'..."
Simon nods his head and says, "Yes, Brock should be here anytime soon. Patience."
Arman scowls, "Ugh. I've made very clear how I feel about Clan Tzimisce. They're barbaric, uncivilized, and--"
Simon interrupts him, "And they have the ability to heal Jon without drawing any attention. After all, according to the rest of the world, Jon McMahon died along with his family in that fire. Either way, I'm sure you understand the benefits of such an arrangement."
Arman sighs and nods his head.
Ginny says, "Yep. We gotta start thinking outside of Plaintry. And besides, I wanna see what this Brock guy's all about."
Arman shakes his head and asks, "What's so special about Flimont City, anyways?"
Simon responds, "I've already told you. Brock's Sire, Mr. Collins is Seneschal to the Prince of Flimont City, and she has a lot of influence over the local Kindred population. If we play our cards right, we could potentially gain a powerful ally."
Arman scoffs, "Or make an enemy. What you failed to tell me was that the Prince is a Brujah. You do not know how much I despise them."
Simon chuckles and says, "Oh, come now, Arman. It's true, yes, the Ventrue were quite...humiliated when Flimont's prior Prince was deposed by the Brujah. But that was a decade or so ago. I'm sure you can put your petty grudge aside for the sake of something...greater."
Simon taunts his host, "Besides, I thought you Ventrue were all about making connections and networking? Shouldn't we let the past remain...in the past?"
Arman narrows his eyes and says, "Perhaps so."
He sighs and says, "Very well. I shall give this Flesh-Shaper a chance. But if he so much as steps out of line, I'll--"
Simon interrupts him, "There's no need to worry. Brock is only here for Jon. Nothing else."
Ginny asks, "You're not worried about the fact that Brock seeing us first instead of presenting himself to the Prince is a violation of the Fifth Tradition?"
Simon replies, "He's coming here on a personal capacity. As long as he doesn't poke his nose where it doesn't belong, everything should be fine."
Arman narrows his eyes and asks, "Wait. I thought you said he was coming to this town on the pretense of carrying out some official Clan-related business?"
While that question lingers in the air, there's another knock on the door.
Simon smirks, "Oh? I must've heard wrong. You know how these things are, Arman. The flow of information for us Kindred is...tenuous, at best." He then stands up and says, "Well, I believe that's our guest. Shall we?"
Arman sighs and gets up. He walks over to the door and opens it.
A young, muscular man with short, crew-cut brown hair stands there. He's wearing a dark red leather jacket and jeans. He has a stern look on his face. He's holding a black medical bag in one hand and a duffel bag in the other.
Arman looks at the man and asks, "Are you Brock?"
Brock nods his head and says, "Yes. I heard you have a...present for me? That's what one of Mr. Simon's people said, anyway."
Arman frowns and says, "Yes. Please, come in."
Brock walks inside and looks around. He notices Ginny sitting on the couch. He looks at her and says, "Hi."
Ginny flashes a quick smile before grabbing another shot glass and downing it. Arman leads Brock to the living room.
The Tzimisce looks around Arman's Haven and says, "Sweet place, Mr. Arman. It's what I expected from a Ventrue." He chuckles.
Arman raises an eyebrow and says, "Yes. The previous owner was exiled. The Toreadors gave me a good price. They had very little choice, you see." He gestures to the couch and says, "Please, have a seat."
Brock flumps down on the extravagant couch next to Ginny and sets his bags down. He looks at Simon and says, "The Lasombra of Flimont City send their regards, Mr. Simon."
Simon nods his head and says, "Yes, I'm sure they do. Tell me, how is your Sire?"
Brock shrugs and says, "Eh. He's doing fine. He's busy with the Prince and all that. Being a Seneschal is quite...boring, really."
Arman sits down and asks, "So, Brock, what exactly do you plan to do with Jon, once you've...found him?"
Brock narrows his dark hazel eyes and stares at Arman and smiles, "Ah, so you know about...us. Well, I guess there's no point in beating around the bush. The short answer is that I'm here to find Jon and take him back to Flimont City."
He pauses and asks, "And you don't have a problem with that, do you?" He gives Arman a stern look.
The Ventrue just stares back at him.
Arman says, "Please, help yourself to a drink. I can imagine the drive must've been rather...exhausting."
Brock chuckles and says, "I'll be sure to. But first, I need to know where the McMahons live."
The Flesh-Shaper grabs a shot glass and continues, "Do any of your people know where Jon might be? I could always go door-to-door, but that would take forever."
Arman remains silent and looks at Simon who is smirking.
Brock looks directly into Simon's eyes and asks, "You...know where he is, don't you?"
Simon shrugs and says, "Perhaps. Perhaps not. What do I get in return?"
Brock frowns as he replies, "The Night Clan gets the satisfaction of a job well done? I don't know, Mr. Simon. What DO you want?"
He looks at Arman and asks, "What are you 3 playing at here? This better not be some kind of fucking setup."
Arman scoffs, "Please, Brock. As if the Ventrue would resort to such...shenanigans. Unlike you Fiends."
Brock's eyes narrow as he stares at the Elder Lasombra and says, "So, are you going to tell me or not?"
Simon, with his fingers steepled, leans back on the couch and says, "The answer is simple. I want the your Sire's help. Your Sire is Seneschal to the current Prince, is that correct?"
Brock nods his head.
Simon continues, "And Mr. Collins is also well-respected amongst the Kindred population of Flimont City?"
Brock nods his head again.
Simon says, "Excellent. Last question, how much influence does he hold over the Brujah Prince. What was her name? Oh, yes, Roxanne. Does your Sire hold a lot of influence over her?"
Brock looks at Arman, and then at Simon and says, "Uh, I guess he does. I'm not sure I like where this is going."
Simon smiles and says, "I'm glad to hear it. We need your help, Brock."
Brock looks at Simon and asks, "What do you mean, 'we'? The only thing I'm interested in right now is finding Jon and getting him the fuck away from his crazy family. Or whoever took him."
Arman says, "I think we should tell him."
Brock raises an eyebrow, "Tell me what?!"
Simon smiles.
Ginny chimes in, "We gotta tell him. It's either that, or I'll just tell him myself."
Simon calmly says, "The McMahons are all dead. Every last one of them."
Brock narrows his eyes, "What?! How?! Wha--what about Jon?!"
Ginny sighs, clearly getting tired of Simon dragging this on, "We wasted the entire family tonight. Your boyfriend was in the barn next door where they were tryin' to pray his gay away. Heh."
Brock's eyes widen as he tries to process everything, "Wait, so you're saying...you killed everyone? Why?! What about Jon?!"
Simon says, "Jon is still alive. However, he suffered a severe stroke. He's currently...resting."
Brock's lips shake as his eyes start to well up, "S--so, they actually took him. My god--"
The Tzimisce pulls out his phone and frantically scrolls through, trying to find something. He finds an audio recording of the last time he heard Jon and plays it to the others.
His eyes are red as tears of blood flow down his cheeks.
Arman raises an eyebrow and asks, "What's this?"
Brock struggles to formulate a sentence, "T--the last time I...I thought I--"
The audio plays: "Hey, buddy. It's me. Listen, I had to do it. I had to come out, man. My mom was forcing me to go out with this chick from church. I know it's supposed to be a secret, but...I don't know. I just couldn't go on like this. You know how I feel about you. I just wanna be with you."
The tears of blood continue rolling down as Brock buries his face in his hands.
The audio continues: "I just wanna get away from it all. Away from the hate. I feel like...I feel like I'm suffocating. Like I'm trapped. I wanna be free. I know this is risky, but...I just had to do it. Listen, I--"
Jon's message is cut off by the sound of a door being bashed down. He sounds confused as cattle prods are heard. Then there's a loud scream followed by a struggle.
Brock chokes on his tears and says, "My god, I can't believe those bastards--"
Simon cuts him off, "As you can see, Brock, we did you quite the favor tonight. And Kindred are very good at paying their debts."
He leans forward and continues, "The only thing I ask is for you put in a good word with your Sire about us."
Brock looks at the Elder Lasombra and asks, "That's...all you want? You're not going to try and blackmail me or anything?"
Simon smiles and says, "No. We are creatures of honor, after all."
Simon can't help but smirk after saying that.
Ginny raises her hand and says, "Yeah. We need to start making alliances outside this fuckin' town. And Flimont City sounds like a good place to start."
Arman sighs and says, "Ginny is correct. This town has been good to us, but we have certain plans beyond it."
Brock waves his hand in dismissal, "Don't even tell me about it. I know how dicey these things get. I just wanna get Jon and get the fuck outta here."
Arman holds up his hand and asks, "Amuse me, Stoker. One question. Is Jon the object of your...Clan Compulsion? Your Covetousness?"
Brock's expression changes to that of disgust, "What the fuck, man? Are you insinuating what I think you're insinuating? That's...that's messed up."
The Flesh-Shaper continues, "I--I care about Jon. Deeply. More than that family of his ever did. That's why I wanna get him AWAY from this hellhole. I know this is your Haven, Arman, but you really need to watch your tongue. No offense."
Arman sighs and says, "I apologize. I was merely curious. I did not mean to offend." He then gives Simon a dirty look.
It was actually Simon who claimed that Jon was the "object" of Brock's Covetousness.
Brock turns his attention to Simon and asks, "What exactly happened tonight? Where's Jon now?"
Simon smiles and gestures to Arman, "Arman was the one who rescued Jon. We...dealt with the rest of the McMahons."
The Flesh-Shaper nods his head and says, "T--Thank you. B--But why did you kill them?" He grits his teeth as he struggles to maintain his composure.
He's eager to see Jon, there's no doubt about that and all this stalling is getting to him.
The Elder Lasombra remains calm and says, "It was necessary. As you well know, the McMahons are rather...well connected and have a lot of influence in local and national politics."
Arman continues, "Even a fool would know that they would try to use their connections to recover Jon. All of which, when put together, will invariably lead to a breach of the Masquerade."
The Ventrue adds, "And the last thing we need is any of the alphabet agencies poking around Plaintry."
Brock nods his head in understanding, "Uh...yeah. I heard this town was a critical node in the Blood Trade. But still, the whole family?! You killed the whole family?! I don't like 'em for what they did to Jon, but--"
Simon replies, "I assure you, Brock, that they all deserved it. And that they were all equally guilty of their...crimes against Jon. It's what you would've done too."
Brock frowns, "T--That's not the point." He then leans back and closes his eyes, "It's not even about that. No, I...I don't have it in me to kill 4 people."
Simon chuckles, "4? We killed 6."
Brock grimaces, "Wait? Who else?"
Arman speaks up, "The 2 son-in-laws. I believe they were there with Jon's sisters."
Brock exhales, "God damn. The Lasombra of Plaintry make the Lasombra of Flimont City look like a bunch of saints. And the Lasombra back there have done their share of fucked up stuff."
He sighs and says, "Whatever. I--I don't care anymore. Just take me to Jon!"
Ginny smirks and jokes, "Ooh, we got ourselves a badass Tzimisce right here. Y'know, I was expecting you'd be a little more...scary-looking."
Brock rolls his eyes, "Yeah, yeah. Whatever." He gets serious and asks, "So, where's Jon?"
Simon replies, "I believe he's in the guest room. Arman will show you."
Arman gets up and tells Brock, "Please. Follow me. This way."
As the 2 leave to go and see Jon, Arman can't help but wonder to himself about why Simon would lie about Jon being the object of Brock's Covetousness.
This makes the Ventrue wonder about what else the Elder Turncoat might be lying about.
Or hiding.
Just then, the doorbell rings and Arman narrows his eyes. He's not expecting any more visitors. Rolf goes to answer the door, and standing outside are Jimmy and Jacob. They have a man, bound, beaten, and gagged standing between them.
Arman raises an eyebrow and is confused, "Wha--"
Jimmy nods his head, "Yep. We got a little gift for our Flesh-Shaper friend over here."
They drag the unknown man into Arman's Haven and throw him on the floor.
Brock stops in his tracks, narrows his eyes, and asks, "Who the hell is this?"
Simon walks over to the man and says, "Ah, yes. Ginny, care to do the honors?"
Ginny smiles and says, "With pleasure."
She grabs the man by his collar and lifts him off the floor. She continues, "He was in that barn every day, overseeing the suffering of your precious Jon. He was the one who was beating and prodding Jon night and day."
She slams him against the wall. The man grunts in pain.
Simon steps forward and says, "The man is Pastor Miller. A youth pastor at a nearby megachurch. He has a history of being very vocal about his...views on homosexuals."
Arman chimes in, "As I understand, he's even been banned from certain establishments. Pfft."
Brock shakes his head in disbelief and disgust. He growls as he stares at the man.
The man tries to talk, but it's all muffled by a bloody piece of cloth tied tight around his mouth.
Simon looks at Brock and says, "For what it's worth, Jon's sisters weren't innocent either. Ginny told me that Pastor Miller here had them help in trying to...straighten Jon."
Brock sneers, "Straighten?! They screwed him up."
Jimmy smiles, "Either way, they all deserved what they got."
Brock clenches his jaw and starts walking towards the man.
Ginny smirks, "You can have him, if ya want. We'll make sure he stays quiet."
She grabs the back of the Pastor's head and slams it into the wall. Blood trickles down as the man slumps to the floor.
Arman audibly gasps. Of course, he's more worried about his wall. There's a big blood stain on it, and Arman's a bit of a neat freak. He sighs, knowing that the stain will be difficult to clean.
Simon shakes his head and says, "Well, now. I believe you should really thank Ginny for taking the initiative."
Brock nods his head and says, "Thanks. But this bastard isn't even worth the blood in his veins."
Just then, Jon walks out of the guest room, looking all dazed and confused. He looks at the group and says, "Wha--" He's wearing a dark blue dual-pocket sleeping robe.
His eyes are a bit swollen, he's shivering and he can barely stand. His voice is also hoarse.
The entire group is surprised, save for Brock. He runs over to Jon.
It's the first time they're meeting each other in-person, although the 2 wish it were under less...stressful circumstances. Brock puts his hands on Jon's shoulders and looks into his glassy eyes.
The Flesh-Shaper whispers, "I'm so sorry. I'm so, so sorry. I should've been here sooner. I--" He can't hold back the tears of blood.
He pulls Jon close, hugs him tightly and kisses him on the forehead.
He doesn't even care that the rest are watching. His heart might have stopped beating but it still aches with sadness, and all he wants to do is be there for the man he deeply cares about.
Jon recoils back and starts mumbling something, but his words are so slurred it's hard to understand him.
He looks at Brock and shouts, "Thou shalt not lie with mankind, as with womankind: it is abomination."
He repeats this over and over.
Brock is taken aback and shocked. He asks the Pastor, "What did you do to him?!"
Brock rips out the piece of cloth tied around the Pastor's mouth. The Pastor spits out some blood and says, "You're all going to hell--" Brock interrupts him by punching him in the face.
Arman grimaces as more blood is splattered all over his precious floor.
The Ventrue mutters, "Ugh, the cleaning alone will take hours. What has my Haven become, a slaughterhouse?!"
Brock punches the Pastor again. The Pastor screams in pain.
Jon is in the corner, rocking back and forth and fiddling around with his hands. He's repeating his mantra, "Thou shalt not lie with man..."
Brock grits his teeth and says, "FUCK YOU, FUCK THE MCMAHONS, AND FUCK EVERYONE ELSE WHO HAD A HAND IN THIS!"
Brock approaches Jon again and gently says, "Hey, buddy. It's me. Brock. Listen, nobody is gonna hurt you now. I'm here for you and I'm gonna take you somewhere safe." Jon stops rocking and stares at Brock.
Brock reaches for him but Jon backs away.
Brock pleads, "It's me. Don't you recognize me?" He tries to put his hand on Jon's shoulder, but Jon bats it away.
The Pastor, still bleeding and bruised all over, struggles to get up and laughs. He says, "Don't you see? Jon McMahon is a lost cause. There's no hope for a reprobate like him. He kept calling your name over and over and over."
Jon looks at the Pastor and covers his head with his hands. He keeps mumbling, "Thou shalt not lie..." and crying.
The Flesh-Shaper snaps.
His fangs unsheathe as his eyes turn into slits. They're not ordinary fangs. Every single tooth turns into a sharp triangle-like needle. His claws extend to several inches. They're razor-sharp and have a curved hook-like shape. It's almost like he's turned his fingers into deadly scalpels.
The Pastor's eyes widen as his expression changes from smugness to terror.
Brock growls as he leaps into the air and pounces on his prey. The Pastor lets out a loud scream. Brock lands on the floor, snarling.
The Pastor tries to scurry away but he's too slow. Brock pins him down, and slashes his face, leaving behind large claw marks. Blood gushes out of the fresh wounds. The Pastor screams again, but his throat is slashed open.
He's now choking on his own blood.
Brock lets out a roar as he continues slashing. The Beast has taken over. The Pastor's body is being ripped apart, his insides are being torn out and the bones are being snapped and shattered.
More roaring as blood splatters everywhere. Organs come flying out. Bones can be heard snapping and breaking.
Arman looks on in horror. Ginny is chuckling. Simon intently watches. Jimmy is expressionless and motionless. Jacob covers his eyes.
The Flesh-Shaper finally stands up and howls. Blood is all over his face, chest, and hands.
He looks at the gory mess that was once Pastor Miller. The body is unrecognizable, just a bloody pile of guts, organs, and bones. Jon is still in the corner, rolled into a ball and muttering to himself.
He's shaking uncontrollably and sweating. He's completely clueless.
He eventually passes out and falls to the floor.
It takes a while for Brock to get the Beast back under his control. When he finally returns to "normal", he's crying tears of blood. He's in total disbelief of what he just did.
The Beast can be heard rumbling inside him, begging to be let out again.
Brock looks around and sees that everyone is staring at him.
His face is full of guilt, shame, and disgust. His blood-stained lips quiver.
Arman shakes his head and says, "My god! Such outbursts of anger would be more suited for a Brujah."
Brock looks at him, expressionless. He can't speak. He can't even move.
The Ventrue looks at his blood-stained floors and furniture, "Ugh. How...uncivilized."
Brock, with the taste of fresh blood in his mouth, slowly walks over to Jon. He kneels down next to him, and holds his head.
He's not sure if he should pick Jon up or not. He doesn't want to upset him, or scare him. He doesn't even know if Jon is aware of what's happening. Jon is breathing heavily and mumbling something incoherently.
Brock strokes Jon's head and softly says, "I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry."
Jon's eyes flutter open and he and whispers, "B--Brock?" The Flesh-Shaper nods his head. Tears of blood continue flowing down his cheeks.
Jon asks, "Y--you...came?"
Brock gently picks him up and hugs him. He tells the others, "He needs medical attention."
Simon nods, "I agree. However, he and his family are well-known around these parts. Kindred in this town haven't quite gotten ahold of...any medical professionals. Yet."
Brock dryly replies, still traumatized by what he just did, "I'll take him back to Flimont City. My Sire's a doctor. He can treat him."
Arman nods and says, "That's good. The sooner you're out of my Haven, the better."
Ginny shoots back, "What the hell, Arman?! Sun's coming up in a few hours! Let him stay the day!"
Simon agrees, "I concur. Besides, Jon's condition is not exactly stable. If anything were to happen--"
The Ventrue sighs and reluctantly says, "Fine. Fine. Just, try not to...get blood on anything else. These things don't come cheap."
Jimmy snickers. Jacob makes the sign of the cross with his hands.
Brock growls, "Believe me, I wanna get outta here. I got no love for the Ventrue. And you're not the first Patrician I've met."
Arman's lips tighten, he's clearly insulted.
Brock gulps, "But...Jon's safety comes first."
Simon then says, "In any case, I believe you should bring him back to the guest room."
Rolf shakes his head as he begins the procedure of disposing of the Pastor's remains. He grumbles and mumbles to himself, "Blood all over the place. Grrr." He sighs deeply.
Rolf is a professional at getting rid of dead bodies. It's not his first time, after all. But, it is the first time the corpse is in such a gruesome state.
The Tzimisce carefully carries his mortal boyfriend back to the guest room. He sets him down on the bed and covers him with the soft blanket. He gently rubs Jon's cheek and kisses him on the forehead.
Brock doesn't want to leave Jon, but he knows he has to give the man some space to rest.
He gets up and closes the door. As he makes his way back to the living room, he looks down at his hands and clothes. They're all covered in dried blood.
The Flesh-Shaper looks at Arman, who's still scowling at the blood stains on his floors and furniture, and says, "Sorry about that."
Arman scoffs, "Pfft. I just want you out by tomorrow evening. I'll have Rolf fetch you a pair of clothes and a towel. The shower will be ready in a few minutes."
Brock nods his head.
Arman asks, "So, do you really mean it? Are you taking Jon back with you?"
The Tzimisce sighs, "I have to. There's no way he...we can have a life here. Looking over your shoulders, worrying about being attacked. It's...not for us. Besides, his family is...well, they're gone. No one's gonna miss 'em. God damn."
Brock still cannot process the fact that the McMahons were killed.
Arman nods his head.
Brock adds, "And the sooner I'm away from Plaintry, the better."
Arman says, "We understand. Just, be careful. Flimont City is not exactly a paradise for Kindred, either. I've heard stories and rumors--" Arman's voice trails off as he tries to recall some of those stories and rumors.
Brock smiles and says, "It's the closest thing to one we have."
Rolf walks back in to the living room. He says, "Done. Body disposed. Will get cleaning liquids. But I recommend calling professional cleaner. This...a big job."
Arman sighs and says, "Yes, yes. We know, Rolf. Thank you."
The Ghoul tells the Stoker, "Shower ready. Turn left knob for hot, right for cold. Towel and new clothes by shower. I also prepare spare toothbrush."
Brock nods his head and says, "Thank you, Mr. Rolf. You're too kind."
The Ghoul simply bows his head and says nothing.
He looks at Arman, Simon, Jimmy, Jacob, and Ginny and asks, "Anybody need anything? I go sleep soon."
The vampires shake their heads.
Brock warmly smiles at the Ghoul and leaves to go to the bathroom. As he makes his way there, he wonders how the Lasombra Coterie could be so...cruel.
Like Arman, Brock is conflicted with how things transpired this evening.
However, neither man feels like they have a right to judge the actions of the Lasombra Coterie. But that feeling of uncertainty lingers in the air, as Brock begins cleaning himself up.
He slips out of his stained clothes and puts them in a small bin next to the shower. He's now standing there, naked in the bathroom, his body still covered in dried blood and some flesh bits. He opens the door to the shower.
He can feel the warmth from the hot water. It feels comforting.
He gets inside and lets the warm water hit his face. The blood, the flesh bits, and everything else wash down the drain. He stands there, unmoving. Tears of blood start rolling down his cheeks again.
He remembers the screams and cries of Jon (from the audio message) as his own family took him away to that barn to "fix" him.
He can't get those sounds out of his mind. The guilt is too much for the (still) young Kindred to bear. He scratches at the tiled bathroom walls with his unusual claws and sinks down to the shower floor.
After about 10 minutes or so, Brock manages to compose himself and stops crying. He squares his jaw, pulls a towel, and wraps it around his waist. He grabs a spare toothbrush that's lying on the sink and brushes his teeth.
After a few more minutes, the Flesh-Shaper steps out of the bathroom looks at himself in the mirror.
He tells himself, "You need to be strong. For Jon. I...don't wanna let him know what happened here tonight. He needs you more than ever." Brock nods his head as if he's trying to convince himself that he's the "strong" one, and that he'll be there for Jon.
However, Brock now decides who to blame for Pastor Miller's...death. Was it him or The Beast? He looks in the mirror, at his bloodshot eyes and the few tears of blood streaming down his cheeks, and thinks to himself, "The Beast is an extension of you. So, it's really--"
As he's standing there, expressionless, Rolf enters the bathroom carrying some clothes, socks and a pair of shoes. He places them on a table and says, "Please. You can wear them."
He turns around, ready to leave, but stops in his tracks when he hears Brock's voice, "Thank you."
Rolf notices the tattoo of something resembling a dragon on Brock's bare back. Very much in line with the Tzimisce Clan. It's a tattoo of a dragon consuming its own tail. The head of the dragon is at the tail, and the tail is at the head.
Brock jokingly asks, "You like what you see?"
Rolf replies, "Uh--"
The tattoo, however, doesn't do too great a job at covering the numerous scars on the Stoker's back.
Brock chuckles and grimly says, "These scars...heh. The Ventrue's handiwork."
Rolf looks around to make sure no one's listening, leans against the doorway, and folds his arms. He's interested in what Brock has to say and he seems in the talking mood.
Brock sighs and continues, "Y'know. I was once a Ghoul like you, before my Embrace. I didn't have much of a choice in the matter. Roxanne was ready to take Praxis and become Prince, with Dr. Collins by her side, but well--" He chokes up a bit as he recalls this traumatic memory from the night of the attack.
The Beast rumbles inside him. It's never far beneath the surface.
Brock tries to regain his composure and says, "I was out driving and a bunch of young Ventrue T-boned my car. They...they beat the shit outta me. I wasn't ready for it."
Rolf's eyes widen. He's in total disbelief, but Brock's story makes sense given the way the Tzimisce carries himself.
Brock continues, "I thought I was gonna die that day, Rolf. And I wanted to." The Stoker grits his teeth. His lips quiver as more tears of blood stream down. He wipes them with his hands, which are now stained again.
Brock's breathing becomes heavy as he tries to hold back his anger.
Rolf knows very little about Kindred politics (no doubt the choice of his master), so he innocently asks, "Did they catch who beat you?"
Brock is amused by such a question, but it only makes him think about how innocent and unassuming the Ghoul is, despite what he's been through.
The Flesh-Shaper lets out a hollow laugh and says, "Nah. The Ventrue Clan, your master's Clan, is full of pricks. I don't know where those assholes are and to be honest, I--I don't care anymore."
He looks in the mirror and thinks to himself, "That was my past. Jon's the only one who matters to me now."
The Tzimisce can see his irregular fangs. His Beast rumbling again. He looks at Rolf and says, "Anyways, Mister, err...Dr. Collins, my Domitor and now my Sire eventually put me back together."
He gently strokes his face, as if to feel for any signs of the extensive surgery he's had, "He did quite an...incredible job. But for a long time, I wasn't so sure."
"Wasn't sure about what?"
"4 armed son of a bitch decided then and there was the place to Embrace me. And...I didn't get a say in the matter." He stops and ponders for a second, "It was either that, or die a very painful death. Damn."
The Stoker's face hardens. Rolf can see it in Brock's face, but the Ghoul is still too reserved to comment on it.
Rolf narrows his eyes, "4 armed?"
Brock chuckles and grins, "Oh, yeah. My Sire's got 4 arms. All that...is a Tzimisce trademark. Hilariously enough, he picked his 2 extra arms from dead SI agents sent to destroy him."
Brock's face contorts with disgust and anger. "My god, what the hell is wrong with me?!"
He wonders to himself, "Am I actually proud of that?! I knew they were SI, but whoa..."
He looks down, and mutters, "My Sire is not a bad man by any means. No, Dr. Collins is alright, I guess. He's a Presbyterian, but not the nutty type, y'know."
Brock goes on, "Speaking of nutty types, if you thought Pastor Miller was a mess, you shoulda seen what those Ventrue did to me, hahahaha."
Rolf shakes his head and says, "Ugh, you make very big mess. Master Arman very displeased. He ask me to get cleaning equipment, but I think best idea is professional cleaners. This...a lot to clean. No doubt about that."
Brock's smile turns into a frown, "Oh...well, you're the Ghoul. That's all your job, buddy. I've been where you are, man. And it kinda sucks." Rolf can feel the disdain in the Stoker's voice.
The Tzimisce's mood quickly shifts from being amused, to sad, and now back to uncertain again.
In a desperate attempt to lighten the mood and end the awkward silence, Brock jokingly says, "I had a mullet back in the day. Heh, heh, heh."
He starts laughing nervously. He even combs his fingers through his short hair.
Rolf can see how conflicted Brock is about his situation and is unable to stop himself from asking, "And what are you going to do now?"
Brock is still thinking about his mullet, "Eh, ya think Jon will like me in a mullet?" He pays no attention to Rolf's question and shrugs his shoulders, "Maybe...I should regrow one. Y'know, to get my groove on, haha. It's not gonna be easy, though."
Rolf rolls his eyes and walks away, leaving Brock with a smile on his face.
Brock's expression dulls as he sees the Ghoul walking away. He sarcastically says to himself, "Yeah. Great guy-talk. I could really feel the connection there. I'm sure Arman trained you to be like this."
He puts his hands on the dressing table, hunches forward, and sighs, "I just wanna take Jon and get outta this dump. Damn, I could use a drink right now."
He goes into the living room and to his dismay, the tray that once held shot glasses full of blood is empty. Brock groans and asks, "Seriously? Sun's coming up. Why're ya still here?!"
Ginny chuckles, "Heh heh heh. Lookin' good, Brock."
Arman doesn't seem to be in the talkative mood, as he's still worried about the mess Brock made.
Brock gestures to the empty tray, "You got anything more to drink?"
Arman sighs, snaps his fingers and calls for Rolf, "Rolf. A blood bag, if you may. And please, be quick."
The Ghoul returns and hands Brock a plastic bag filled with a dark red liquid. It's cold. The bag is unmarked and unlabeled.
The Flesh-Shaper's mouth is watering at the sight of the cold blood. His fangs unsheathe and he softly grins, "Fine. This'll do."
He goes back to the room to get changed and guzzles down the bag of blood. As a plastic surgeon, he's always been fascinated by the human body. His love for it even prompted his interest in becoming a plastic surgeon in the first place.
His fascination extends to Kindred physiology, too and it was because of that, that he managed to pick up the fine art of Flesh Shaping. In addition to copious night classes, his Sire taught him all about it.
As he drinks his bag of cold blood, his Beast calms down. He feels his fangs slowly go back in.
The Hunger can never be fully sated. Brock knows this all too well. A little part of him, a darker part perhaps, wants to feel that rush of adrenaline again.
The part that was reborn on that fateful night when the Ventrue came for him and Dr. Collins was left with little choice but to Embrace him on that surgical table.
The screaming- his own screams of pain mixed in with cries. Begging to be spared, to just let him die, as his skin was flayed open and the muscles and tendons were ripped off. Brock grits his teeth at the thought.
A chill goes up his spine, and he gets a sense of foreboding.
A part of him hates his Sire for taking advantage of him- for Embracing him when he was barely holding onto life and certainly not thinking straight.
He still hasn't forgiven his Sire. It's likely he never will. His Beast rumbles again and he mutters under his breath, "Damn, Collins."
The other part of him, however, is grateful to Dr. Collins who is now a powerful Kindred in his own right- a 4 armed Seneschal to the Brujah Prince of Flimont City. Some might look at the extra appendages and laugh.
But to those who know better, it is a mark of power.
Dr. Collins is a formidable opponent for anyone (Kindred or mortal), his weapons of choice- scalpels. Rumors go around of how he took down an entire SI hit squad sent to destroy him.
But there is nothing about those 4 limbs that can match up to his prowess as an experienced physician. And it was his expertise that brought Brock back from the edge all those years ago. And that is what matters most to Brock.
Or, at least, it should.
Brock struggles to put on the tight long-sleeve shirt given to him. He groans, "Ugh, don't they have anything that isn't kid-sized? Jeez!" After some difficulty, he finally manages to squeeze himself into the shirt. It's black and it has no logos on it.
He'll have to make do with what's given to him.
The track pants, thankfully, are a bit loose. As he puts them on and ties the string, Brock wonders, "Man, how the hell can someone wear this tight crap?"
After putting on his white socks and shoes, the Tzimisce opens the door and walks back to the living room.
Brock awkwardly rotates his arms, still getting used to his new shirt.
Arman snickers, "Ah. A very...refined fashion sense, indeed."
The other Kindred giggle at this comment.
Except for Simon. He's staring into the void, fingers steepled as if he's in deep contemplation.
Ginny comments, "So, Brock. What are you gonna do now?"
Brock sits down on an armchair and says, "Well, I gotta wait till tomorrow evening, for one."
Jimmy is still there, relaxing in one of Arman's recliners. He kicks his legs up and down, seemingly amused.
Jacob is sitting nearby, with his hands glued to his thighs. He looks around, waiting for someone to say something.
Ginny attempts to break the ice, "So, plastic surgeon, huh? What's that like?"
Brock replies, "It's my job and I'm good at it." He then pulls out a book from one of his bags and hands it over to Ginny.
"Brock Davies" is written on the cover. Ginny opens the book, flips through the pages, and sees that it's filled with various images of people who've had various surgical procedures done on them. Some of the photos have red arrows pointing at specific parts of the body.
Ginny whistles and says, "Wow, this is pretty incredible."
Brock warmly smiles, "Thank you."
Ginny asks, "Did you take all these photos yourself?"
Brock nods his head, "Yep. Did the surgeries too."
Arman asks, "Hmph. No doubt a way to bolster your Clan's numbers, no?"
Brock shrugs as he replies, "Mostly. They all chose this. No one forced them to come to me. It's a big deal in Flimont City. Everyone wanted to get their hands on some new...features. And I was just the guy to help 'em."
Jimmy jokes, "Soccer moms need new implants? Hahahaha! You're like their Santa Claus, man!"
Brock's smile fades away. He scowls at Jimmy. Arman is indifferent. Jacob keeps his mouth quiet.
Brock goes on, "You'd be surprised how many requests I get for...extra appendages. From other Kindred, of course."
The Tzimisce rubs his chin, and recalls a conversation he had with someone else, "And some of 'em didn't even know what they were signing up for. By then, it was too late. They Frenzied and had to be put down. Can you believe that?"
Arman raises an eyebrow and grunts, "Pathetic."
Brock narrows his eyes as he looks at Arman and asks, "Arman, I take it that you have a strong...dislike of my Clan? Why is that? What have we ever done to you?"
Arman takes a deep breath and replies, "Let's just say that my experiences with the Tzimisce are...unpleasant, to say the least. I've seen furniture made entirely out of human flesh while in Germany. Ghastly. Ghastly." His tone is grave. Everyone can feel the tension in the air.
Even Jimmy's skin crawls at the mention of flesh furniture. Arman is not in the mood for jokes right now.
Brock replies, "Look, I'm sorry to hear that, but it's got nothing to do with me."
Arman raises his voice, "Oh, spare me your apologies, Brock. You know very well what the Tzimisce are capable of. You're one of them!" he looks at Brock with contempt.
Brock's face hardens, "Well, I see you have your mind all made up. Besides, you Ventrue aren't the paragons of virtue, either."
A look of arrogance and smugness crosses Arman's face, "And what exactly are you implying? That we're just as savage as your Clan?"
Brock lightly nods his head. Arman laughs in derision.
Ginny says, "Hahaha. OK, OK. Get a room, you 2. Geez."
She keeps flipping through Brock's "portfolio" as her eyes light up and she even says, "Wow. These are pretty incredible. Hey, maybe I should get something done? What do ya think, huh?"
She's not really serious about it. It's more of a joke.
Jacob quietly says, "I think you look fine the way you are, Ginny. Besides, our Clan's Bane means that our image is horribly distorted. So, I don't really see the point."
Ginny rolls her eyes. She's not taking Jacob's comment too seriously.
Arman grunts, "I...mostly agree with Jacob. You look fine as is."
Jimmy snickers and asks, "And you, Brock? What's your 'professional' opinion on her?"
Brock shrugs and says, "I don't like to plant seeds of uncertainty in other people's heads. If Ginny wants something done, then it should be HER choice alone."
Simon chimes in, "I haven't cared much for my...image. Being an Elder has taught me that some things are more important than other things." The Lasombra tells Brock, "But, I do try my best to blend in with the times, when I have to."
Ginny chuckles, "Heh heh heh. Good luck with that one, Simon."
Brock smiles, "Haha. Those are some pretty well-trimmed mutton chops you got there, Simon. How do you even maintain them?"
The Flesh-Shaper is genuinely intrigued.
Simon smiles and says, "I have...my own routine," he says as he looks over to the side.
Arman says, "Well, we certainly have a little more time to chat before the sun comes up, so why don't we discuss Kindred affairs?"
Simon asks, "What is there to discuss?"
Brock says, "Look, whatever you're planning, I'm not interested. But, I'll do as you requested. I'll tell my Sire and Prince Roxanne about what you're doing here."
Arman replies, "Thank you. That would be much appreciated."
Brock gives Arman a fake smile and says, "You're welcome. Now, if you don't mind, I'd like to check in on Jon and get some rest."
The Ventrue nods his head, "Yes, yes. Of course."
Brock pulls out a syringe from his black medical bag and goes to where Jon is sleeping.
Arman follows him and asks, "What's that you're giving him?"
Brock taps the syringe with his finger and replies, "Sedatives. He'll be out for a couple hours. Just enough time for us to get our rest during the day."
Arman raises his eyebrows, "The whole day? Are you sure?"
Brock turns around and looks directly at Arman, "Listen. I know what I'm doing. I'd NEVER hurt Jon. Ever. So, just mind your own business."
The Ventrue takes a step back and says, "Fine. Fine. I was merely suggesting that--"
Brock shoots Arman a glare.
Arman forces a smile and nods his head, "Yes, yes. You're the 'doctor', after all."
Brock scoffs, "Sort of." He injects the sedative into Jon's arm and softly rubs his cheek.
Jon's still mumbling to himself.
Brock kisses him on the forehead and gently whispers, "We'll be outta here before you know it. I promise."
He turns around and heads to the living room, where he puts his "portfolio" back into his duffel bag.
He orders Rolf, "Look. I don't care what time it is. If ANYTHING happens with Jon, you wake me up. Understood?"
Rolf stands there, his mouth slightly agape.
Arman doesn't like this one bit so he briskly walks over to Brock and sternly says, "You have no right to order my Ghoul around in MY HAVEN!"
Brock is not impressed. He simply shrugs his shoulders and says, "It's a simple request, nothing more. You got a problem with that?"
Arman gives Rolf a new set of orders, "If anything happens to Jon, wake US up from our day-sleep. Understood?"
Rolf bows his head, "Yes. Master."
Brock scowls at Arman, "So, that's how you treat your Ghoul, hmmm?"
Arman laughs and says, "And how did your former Domitor treat you? Oh, I heard everything you told Rolf. Embracing you when you were at death's door. How...noble of Dr. Collins."
Brock glares at Arman.
Simon quickly interjects, "Now, now. There is no need for such...petty squabbling. We all must get our rest. So, if you'll excuse me."
Simon yawns, stretches his arms, and says, "I am in desperate need of rest. Good day."
Arman shakes his head, "Yes, I suppose I should get you all settled for the day. Rolf, help me fetch some blankets, if you will."
The Ghoul nods his head and goes to the hallway to fetch the blankets.
Arman tells the group, "There are plenty of empty rooms in my Haven, so pick any of them. Simon, Jimmy, Jacob, Ginny. You're all...more than welcome to stay the day here."
Although one can't help but feel the false sincerity oozing from Arman's every word.
They all nod their heads and say, "Thank you."
Brock grunts, "Ugh." He goes to his room and shuts the door. He takes off his clothes (the shirt is too damn tight) and lays in the bed, wearing nothing but his underwear. After a while, he pulls the covers over himself and stares at the ceiling.
His mind keeps wandering back to Jon. He just wants to take Jon right now, get in his car, and drive away. But the sun's rising soon and he could very well turn into a smoldering pile of ash if he went through with such a brazen plan.
Not to mention, Jon would be all stranded and confused.
Such is the (un)life of a love-stricken Kindred. Brock sighs deeply as he thinks about what he did to Pastor Miller. He closes his eyes and tries to sleep. He keeps thinking about what he did (or what he might attribute to the Beast in the near future).
He even asks whether the entire McMahon family deserved to die.
He shakes his head, trying to get those thoughts out of his mind. He knows that he has to keep his cool if he wants to get out of Plaintry and back to Flimont City. His Beast is not exactly the best at keeping its cool.
He hopes, deep down, that there can be a future for him and Jon, together.
Back in the living room, Ginny, Jacob, and Jimmy are sitting and chatting with each other.
Jimmy does a fake yawn and says, "I don't know about you guys, but I'm ready for bed."
He adds, "Hey, Ginny, you wanna share a bed?" He wags his eyebrows and laughs.
Ginny snickers, "Hahaha. In your dreams, playboy." She walks off and goes to her own room.
Jimmy grins and says, "Good one, Ginny!"
Jimmy goes off to his allotted room and whistles, "Damn, feels like a hotel! The Ventrue really got some fine-ass digs!"
Jacob is still sitting in the same chair, in the same spot, not moving an inch. Arman comes over to him and asks, "Is everything OK, Jacob? You seem...disturbed."
Jacob twitches a bit, "That obvious, huh? It's just that I can't stop thinking about something that happened. I mean, it was a long time ago...well, you know."
Arman nods his head and gently says, "I'm all ears, Jacob."
Jacob gnashes his teeth, "It's just that, man. I don't think I can ever get over it. Like, ever. I mean, how can I forget?!" His tone is laced with anger, fear, and sadness.
"What do you mean?" Arman places his hand on Jacob's shoulder and reassures him, "You can tell me, Jacob. Whatever you say to me stays between us."
Jacob looks at Arman and says, "R--Really, you...you promise?"
Arman warmly smiles, "Of course I do. We're friends, aren't we? Think of it as...confession, if that helps."
Jacob wipes a tear of blood from his eye and says, "Thanks, man. I really appreciate it. You see, there was this Banu Haqim that I used to run with. It was decades ago. Um...1970s, I think. A few years after my Embrace. His name was John. He had some major beef with an Elder or something. I don't know."
"Go on," Arman urges.
"Well, we were at this tomb, hiding out. It was the only place we could go. Anyways, one night, he got all serious and told me that he needed my help with something. He said that we were gonna take down this Elder. And, well, I went along with it, cause he was my friend and I didn't know what else to do."
"We snuck into this abandoned mansion and he showed me the Elder. He was in Torpor. There was no way he was gonna wake up. I kept telling John to just leave him alone. We had our share of blood for the night, so we didn't need to do this. But John...he just wasn't having any of it."
"Oh my." Arman has some idea of where this is going.
"A--Anyways, he told me to...Diablerize the Elder. I knew Diablerie was bad. I knew it. But John was my friend, y'know. And I wanted him to be happy. You know how the Banu Haqim view Diablerie, right?"
"Oh, yes, quite dreadful."
Jacob mockingly laughs, "John even told me that Amaranth is a spiritual experience. I kinda bought into it at the time." His face then hardens.
The Lasombra looks heavenward, "After that, the Elder's Ghouls busted in. John, well...he made quick work of them. I've never seen anyone move so fast from one end of the room to the other. It was pretty impressive. But...I didn't wanna fight. Not back then, anyways."
"Then, with dead bodies of Ghouls around us, we took the Elder and went back to the tomb. Everything was fine. Until--"
"Yes?"
"Until I saw his face. John was angry. He was so angry. He asked me if I was afraid of him. I...I didn't know what to say. But he could tell that I was. Then, he told me to sink my fangs into that Elder."
"My goodness."
"I...I froze. And then, he...he grabbed me by the neck. It was like he was gonna bite my head off. And then he pushed me down and...well, I could feel him cutting open the Elder's flesh with his sword."
"And?"
"H--He was feeding off the Elder. He was...he was Diablerizing him. I joined in, too. The Vitae tasted...bitter. But I just couldn't help myself, Arman. It was so overwhelming."
"Yes, the power of the Elders can be quite overwhelming, indeed."
"I could feel all the memories, all the power, just rushing through my veins. It was, dare I say, much more than a spiritual experience."
"So, what happened after that?"
"He...John stood there, smiling. He said, 'I told you so.' And I agreed as the Elder's Vitae was dripping down my chin. I was too caught up in the rush. The next night, I left. I haven't seen John since. And, well, I doubt I ever wanna see him again."
"That sounds like quite the ordeal, my dear Jacob."
"I'm...I'm sorry."
"Don't be." Arman sizes Jacob up and smiles, "It's what gave you the power to bring down the McMahon mansion tonight, yes?"
Jacob's lips shake, "Bu...but how did you--"
"An educated guess. I am correct, am I not?"
Jacob winces and twitches, "I could feel the Elder stirring within me. Just a little. But, it was enough to drive me crazy. I can even hear his whispers when I sleep during the day."
Arman rubs Jacob's back, "Of course, the Traditions of the Camarilla forbid such things, but your secret is safe with me, Abyss Mystic."
Jacob mutters, "Yeah. You're right. I was so scared. I just...I just didn't know what else to do back then. I was so young and clueless--"
Arman asks, "Does Simon know?"
"O...of course he does. He was the one who told me to tell him everything about my past. Uh, why do you ask?"
"No reason. No reason at all. Now, get some rest, yes?"
"Yeah, yeah. And thanks for opening up your Haven to us, Arman."
Arman gives Jacob a big smile, "It's the least I can do for...friends."
As Jacob heads off to his room, Arman is still smiling. The Ventrue has now got information he can potentially use when the time is right. He can already see the gears turning in his head.
Favors and information- the primary currencies of Kindred Society on nights such as these.
"Sleep well, Jacob," Arman says.
Jacob replies, "Thank you. A...And God bless you."
Arman plasters a smile on his face and replies, "Of course. God bless us all."
As Jacob gets settled into the comfy water bed, Arman turns around and asks, "One last question, if you'd be so kind."
Jacob looks at him, "S--Sure, Arman. What is it?"
Arman takes a few seconds before he asks, "Where did all of...that take place?"
Jacob was expecting a tougher question, "Oh, uh, at Magnolia City."
"Ah. I see. Well, sleep well, Jacob."
Jacob wobbles around on the water bed and replies, "Wow. This bed is so...wobbly."
Arman curtly nods and walks out the door, back to his own bedroom.
Rolf is already in his own room, likely sleeping. The sun is not quite up yet, it's the early hours of the morning. Arman takes off his suit and slips into comfy pajamas.
He draws his thick curtains shut.
It's been quite the night for him. And even now, he wonders whether killing the McMahons was the right move. The more he thinks about it, the more he wants to distance himself from it.
Then again, Simon seemed determined to go through with this- almost TOO determined, too gleeful even.
Not that HE can complain about it too much (considering what he's about to unleash on this town in the next few nights), but Arman is still wary of what Simon is going to do next.
Especially since he is, apparently, a Lasombra Elder.
And not just any Lasombra Elder, but one who has been quite open about "defecting" from the Sabbat to the Camarilla. Is this his way of "making amends"?
Arman makes a mental note to look up anything that can shed more light on Simon and his Lasombra buddies.
Not an easy task, all things considered. Of course, Arman knows the basics- they came to this town a few years back and had the Nosferatu and Toreador Clans Blood Hunted and exiled, but other than that, Arman is still a bit lost.
He was away on a business trip in Canada.
After all, Arman knows the value of such information and how useful it could be to get out of any hypothetical sticky situations. The more he acquires, the better he can sleep during the day, knowing that he won't be staked or dragged out into the sun.
For now, he tucks in and closes his eyes. It won't be long before the sun is out, shining brightly.
The last thought in Arman's head as he drifts off into day-sleep is: "The pieces are in place, despite this...setback, dare I say. Soon, this town will be cleansed of all Duskborn. Soon. Very, very soon."
He is, of course, thinking about his plan to unleash a certain bunch of out-of-towners on the Thin-Bloods. He is confident that this plan of his will be a success.
He remarks to himself, "But first, I need to determine how...ferocious they are. Hmmmm...yes. Of course! I have just the plan."
But for now, his eyes flutter shut as he succumbs to his day-sleep. As do all the Kindred currently resting at his Haven.
Back to Lucile's (and Maya's) Haven...
Maya is exhausted from a long night of reading and poring over various tomes and archaic books. Despite being a vampire, her back aches from sitting in one place for so long and she can't feel her butt. Her neck is sore and her head is starting to throb.
Her stomach grumbles a little but not too much.
She goes downstairs to the basement, takes off her clothes and jumps into bed, groaning, "Ugh! So friggin' tired!" She lazily throws off her top and pants, leaving her bra and underwear on.
Maya sits up in bed, takes a deep breath, and rubs her forehead, "OK. Lemme check my phone. Damn. Haven't turned it on since yesterday."
She switches her phone on. It takes longer than usual to properly boot as the notifications pile up on her screen. Some of them are texts and a lot are missed calls.
She realizes that she has to reply to her boss, Edgar.
She sighs and shakes her head. She's not entirely sure how to reply to his WhatsApp message which reads: "Maya. Listen, I know this is hard for you, and I want you to know that I'm here for you. I know what a...difficult time this is for you, and I promise we're all gonna sort this out. I won't mince words, what you did was wrong. Although, I'm not sure which is worse at this point. But, you're not a bad person, Maya. I hope you know that. If there's anything I can do to help, you can always call me. We'll sort this out. Together. Take care."
Her forehead creases as her fingers glide across the virtual keyboard. She quickly replies back with: "Edgar, thanks for everything. I don't deserve your kindness. Can we meet tomorrow night to discuss this?"
She puts the phone on her lap and groans again, "Damn it! How am I even gonna show my face around town anymore? Everyone's gonna look at me and ask, 'what's wrong, Maya? You OK, Maya? Are you going crazy?'"
Maya's hands clench into tight fists and her fangs unsheathe, "What's wrong?! It's all...it's ALL Annette's fault!"
Her hands start trembling and her whole body begins shaking, "I was ALWAYS so nice to her!" Maya screams the last part, almost tearing the flesh off her cheeks with her claws.
Maya starts hyperventilating. Her eyes are wild and her body is shivering even more, "She never...she never wanted to do anything with me, did she? Bitch! It's like she was just using me t--to--" Maya slams her fist on the side table.
Tears of Vitae slowly roll down her cheeks. She sniffs a few times before she starts crying, "It's just...but she was--" Her words trail off as she struggles to form coherent thoughts. The sunrise really does mess with one's head, even when you're down in a nice and cozy basement.
"Why?! I just wanna...I wanna..." she mutters through gritted teeth. Maya wipes away her tears as her shoulders shake uncontrollably, "Of course, pretty princess Annette. Never settled for average," she says mockingly.
Maya gulps, "I NEVER should have told Annette about Bernice. Aw, damnit! Bernice. Now her mayoral thing's all fucked. Oh god, people are gonna blame me, oh god. Oh god. Oh god!" Maya shakes her head. Her bloody tears drip all over her hands and her legs.
She is in utter despair.
"No, no, how will I ever--" She sniffs a few more times, wipes the blood away from her eyes, and throws the sheet over her head as panic and anguish overwhelm her senses. Her stomach is now in knots.
She feels like she's going to puke. But she knows she won't (it's nigh impossible, anyway).
Just then, Lucile walks in and hears a faint muffled voice under the sheet, "...ever face up to what I did? Why do I feel like shit for...everything? Goddammit! Stupid...it's all--fault..."
Lucile gasps and hurries over to Maya, "Are you OK? Maya, my poinsettia. Why are you crying, sweetie," Lucile says in a very soft and kind voice. Maya pushes the sheets away and sits up again, her face stained in red. Lucile has a worried look on her face.
"No...no, no. I don't want you to...don't look at me. Not now, not when I'm--"
Lucile pulls Maya in for a hug, "Shhhhh. Don't say another word. It's OK to feel upset and...hurt. But remember, you're not alone, OK? I'll be there for you," she says.
"B--But your courier job..."
Lucile tightens her grip and rocks Maya back and forth, "That's not important right now. For now, I'm here for you, Maya. Just you and me. No one else."
She rubs the back of Maya's head as she softly whispers, "You're a Tremere now, remember."
Maya tries to stifle a sob. She closes her eyes and wraps her arms around Lucile's shoulders. After a minute or so, she feels calm again and sighs heavily, "Yeah. I'm...I'm sorry, Lucile. I didn't mean to--"
Lucile reassures Maya with another gentle hug and says, "Shhhhhh. It's OK. I know this must be...hard for you."
"How will I ever show my face in town again without being ridiculed or accused or something," Maya desperately asks.
Lucile strokes Maya's cheek and rubs the bloody tears away. She grabs a cloth and gently wipes Maya's face clean.
"Just keep your head down and mind your own business. Besides, who even goes out at night in Plaintry, right? Don't worry, Maya. We'll find a way to get through this," Lucile reassures her.
Maya asks, "W...what about work? I--I'm probably out of my job at Nimbus, by now." Maya hangs her head low.
Lucile comforts her, "Don't worry about money, sweetie."
Maya's head is still hung low.
Lucile says, "Besides, there's still SO MUCH that Eleanor has to teach you. Also, there's plenty of opportunities out there for a talented writer such as yourself. So, don't lose heart, Maya. Please." Lucile takes a step back.
Maya finally raises her head up and looks at Lucile, "R...Really?" Her voice is so quiet that it's almost inaudible.
"Yes, Maya. I mean it. Now, sun's coming up soon. Let's get tucked in, OK?"
"OK," Maya replies. Lucile stands up and quickly undresses, she turns around and teases Maya, "Ah, I caught you looking!" She gives Maya a big grin.
Maya lightly giggles, "Hahaha! OK, OK. I'm looking the other way. See?"
Lucile smirks, "Yes, I can see that," she crawls into bed and cuddles next to Maya, wrapping her arm around Maya's shoulders, "See, isn't this better, my poinsettia?" Maya rests her head on Lucile's chest and softly nods.
Lucile gently runs her hand through Maya's red hair, "There, there, everything will be just fine."
"I love you, Lucile," Maya says as she runs her fingers down Lucile's thigh.
"I love you too, my poinsettia. And I won't ever let you down, you know that. Just promise me you'll do us proud."
"I promise," Maya earnestly replies.
Maya, her head still resting on Lucile's bosom, looks at her and says, "Goodnight...oh, um...good morning. Heh. I gotta get used to that."
Lucile kisses Maya on the head, "Sweet dreams, my poinsettia."
Maya leans in to kiss Lucile on the lips. They softly moan into the kiss as their tongues slowly brush up against each other. Maya moves up a bit, deepens the kiss, and gently squeezes Lucile's breasts.
Lucile lets out a small gasp and whispers into Maya's ear, "Maya...I--I'd love to. B--But not now."
Maya is a bit confused, but she obliges. However, Lucile quickly pecks Maya on the lips, "But don't think you'll be day-sleeping without any cuddles," she says in a seductive tone.
"Mmmmmmmm, that sounds good."
Maya can feel the tiredness rapidly overtaking her body, so she places her head on Lucile's chest once more, closes her eyes, and softly sighs, "Good...morning." After a few seconds, she falls asleep.
Lucile strokes Maya's cheek and smiles, "My poinsettia."
Lucile, too, succumbs to the inevitable day-sleep. And so, both of them are resting peacefully together.
For now.
And not long after, the sun is up, shining bright, and all of Plaintry is basked in the sunlight. Parts of the town are still asleep. Birds can be heard chirping in the distance as the light breeze flows through the trees.
Mortals are busy going about their lives, oblivious to what awaits them in the coming nights.
Chapter 9: The Move- Part 2
As the sun is beaming down on the earth below, a lone figure walks the fields of Plaintry, almost crawling on all fours. He's wearing a hoodie and torn jeans. He has a feral look in his eyes. He stops to sniff the air.
The wind is blowing in from the direction of town. He sniffs again. He catches a whiff of something. It's...blood.
Fresh blood.
There's a mark of a crescent moon branded into the back of his neck. His eyes are glowing a dark shade of red. He bares his fangs and growls. His hands are shaking. He stops and looks around.
He sees his prey. A cute little chihuahua with no collar, denoting that it has no owner and therefore, no one to bother looking for it. He licks his lips, bares his fangs, and snarls, "Gotta do what I gotta do."
He quietly sneaks up on it and pounces, grabbing the dog by its neck and quickly snapping its spine. He then bites down on the dog's throat, sucking its blood. But the little dog's blood...isn't enough.
He needs more.
He looks up and notices a herd of cattle grazing nearby. He licks his blood-stained lips and gets ready to pounce. He's hungry and he's not going to stop until he's had his fill for today.
As he's making his way to the herd of cows, he notices a figure coming out from the barn and approaching the herd. He stops, his eyes wide and his mouth agape. It's a young woman, armed with a double-barrel shotgun.
He quickly scampers to a nearby tree and hides behind it, watching as the woman slowly makes her way to the herd. The woman is humming to herself as she pokes her head around and narrows her eyes.
She ain't stupid. She knows something is amiss. She's seen it before. The strange shadows in the fields, the odd noises, the feeling that she's being watched. All of them are signs of trouble.
And she's determined to put a stop to it.
And worst of all, she's seen dead animals. All ripped, bones snapped, and drained of their blood. It's clear that whatever (or whoever) did this is out there.
She aims her gun at the herd and shouts, "Ain't gonna fuck with my cows."
No response.
The branded vampire furrows his forehead, "You're not gonna scare me off," he thinks to himself. He patiently waits behind that thin tree for the young woman to leave so he can find the right moment to pounce.
Meanwhile, the young woman is still scanning the fields and the nearby trees, searching for any sign of movement. She's got her finger on the trigger and ready to shoot anything that moves.
The vampire says to himself, "Patience, Dylan. Patience. You got people counting on you in this town. Can't let 'em down." He starts to hear the young woman talking to herself. He peeks to see what she's doing.
"What kind of beast would do this to animals. Reports comin' in from all over town about--" Her voice trails off as she continues walking towards the herd.
The vampire is starting to get a little impatient.
He can feel his Beast stirring within him. His hands are shaking violently as his fingers twitch.
He decides to circle around, break into the young woman's house, and cause a distraction. This should hopefully buy him enough time for a one-on-one with a cow. He creeps around the tree, keeping his head down, and darts for the house. He doesn't make a sound.
The young woman doesn't notice as she's too busy talking to herself.
He makes it to the house and hides behind another tree. He looks around and notices the front door. It's slightly ajar. He sneaks over and pushes it open, but stops when he hears the floorboard creaking under his weight.
He slowly slides the door open and creeps inside. He closes it behind him.
Now, the young woman can't see him.
He looks around. It's a quaint little farmhouse, with all the amenities needed for a relatively comfortable life on the outskirts of town. Plenty of pictures, a few family heirlooms, a well-used couch, and a fireplace. There's also a table with a laptop on it, a bunch of papers and documents scattered everywhere, and a crochet hook with yarn attached.
Looks like the young woman is knitting a sweater or something.
He takes a deep breath and sighs, "Just something loud and crazy enough to get her away from her damn cows." He shakes his head and slowly walks into the kitchen. He grabs a box of nails, a pot, and heads for the stove.
Dylan quietly turns on the stove and recoils a bit as the flames nearly burn his fingertips. He puts the pot on the stove and throws the nails inside. He waits until the nails are red-hot, and then puts the pot inside the nearby oven.
He cranks up the timer and hits start. He quickly goes outside the back door and hides behind another tree, watching as the young woman is still looking around for any sign of movement. A minute later, the pot of nails explodes, sending shards of metal flying in all directions.
The young woman jerks her head around as a small shard of metal whizzes past her head. She aims her shotgun towards the house. She looks around and sees that there's nothing in sight.
She runs towards the house, keeping her gun pointed at the window.
She kicks the door open and looks around. She sees that no one's there. She goes to check the stove.
She frantically looks down and sees a blackened pot with a few burnt nails inside.
Dylan takes the opportunity and rushes one of the cows. He's no wrestler, so he struggles to push it over. The cow's head turns around and stares at Dylan. He freezes, thinking that maybe this wasn't such a good idea after all.
But the Beast inside him says otherwise.
"No turning back now," he thinks to himself. He pushes the cow over and grabs its head. The cow moos loudly as Dylan's fangs sink into its neck.
The cow's legs kick wildly as it tries to break free from Dylan's grip.
The other cows start mooing and groaning, as the young woman turns around and notices a figure on one of her precious cows. Her eyes widen as she realizes what's going on.
She raises her shotgun and aims it in the general direction of the vampire.
The vampire hears a gun cocking and lets go of the cow, as blood still flows down his scruffy beard.
He runs away as he hears a shot ring out. A shotgun pellet whizzes past his ear.
She's quite a good shot.
He ducks and covers his head as he keeps running. He makes it to the fence and hops over, barely dodging another shotgun blast.
The good thing is she's out of ammo (for now, unless she's carrying shells in her pockets).
So, he takes this opportunity and runs until he can't see the house anymore, and then he collapses on the ground, exhausted from the exertion and the rays of the sun. He breathes heavily and closes his eyes.
He mutters to himself, "Damn, I really need to get into better shape."
He wipes the sweat off his forehead, licks his lips, and stands up, "Got enough for now, at least."
Kindred in general can't walk out in the sun, but Thin-Bloods like Dylan are somewhat of an exception to the rule.
He wipes the dripping cow blood with his sleeve and walks away, feeling somewhat satisfied, but also ashamed of what he's just done. He knows that if anyone found out, they'd be pretty upset (to say the least).
But he couldn't help it. He needed the blood.
It technically counts as a Masquerade breach, too, but whatever. At least he's sated. That's what matters, right?
He heads back into town and goes to the nearest restroom, washes his face, and leaves, making sure he's not seen by anyone.
Reports have been coming in from all over town of missing animals. Everything- from flock of sheep, cows, horses, to household pets. All of them drained of their blood. Some signs of struggle and a few obvious (mainly puncture) wounds.
All of them were just...gone.
It's been going on for months now, so most folks have started locking their doors and windows, even during the day. No one knows what's behind it.
Or who.
Certain concerned citizens have even raised this issue at the Plaintry town hall meetings. Others have tried writing to the Mayor (yes, writing, as in writing letters. On paper. With pens. The townspeople are old-fashioned that way), but no response has come.
Yet. Like it ever will.
Very very few have even suggested that maybe it's the work of a vampire (or vampires). And yes, some people in this town actually do believe in vampires. There's no concrete evidence about such things, though.
Wink, wink, nudge, nudge.
And that's just the way some would like it to be.
A certain somebody, of course, used to be curious about vampires. Till she became one not so long ago. It's been...interesting ever since.
However, the Kindred do what they can to keep a low profile in this town.
For now, Dylan saunters back to his apartment. He sighs as he notices the peeling paint and the rusty pipes, but he has nowhere else to go. He unlocks the door and heads inside.
"Home sweet home," he sarcastically mutters. He walks into the kitchen and grabs a bottle of beer from the fridge. He pulls out the cap with his teeth and takes a swig. He closes his eyes and sighs as the alcohol slides down his throat.
He opens his eyes and takes a look around his place.
He can hear the pipes in his bathroom leaking. He can even smell gas leaking. He's tried of asking his asshole of a landlord to get it looked at, as there's been no reply. There's greenish mold spores on some of the walls.
Worse yet, rent's gone up in the past few weeks.
Dylan shakes his head, "Nope. Not gonna deal with this shit today. I...just need a fucking nap." He flops onto the couch and turns on the TV. He closes his eyes and drifts off to sleep, the sounds of the TV buzzing in the background.
The screen slowly starts to crack, causing the TV to sputter and crackle. He opens his eyes, winces, and shakes his head, "Damned shithole of an apartment." He gets up and shuts the TV off, and heads to his bed, flopping down face-first into the creaky mattress.
Dylan nods off, "Mmmmmm..."
An hour or so passes and now, officers Jenn and Neil are making their way to the house where the cows were attacked.
The young woman stares the officers down as they approach her, "Took y'alls long enough!"
Jenn rolls her eyes as Neil introduces himself and his partner, "I'm officer Neil with the Plaintry Police Department and this is my partner, Jenn. You called us about a uh, possible cattle mutilation?"
The young woman begins, "So I was outside, checking on the cows when I suddenly heard some noises from the kitchen, right?"
Jenn and Neil glance at each other. They have no clue where she's going with this, but they decide to hear her out.
"And then there was a big explosion. Like a really loud boom! So I went in to check out what all the hullabaloo was, and next thing ya know, there's this weird shady-lookin' person runnin' up to one of my cows and defilin' it!"
She continues, "I tried to shoot the sumbitch, but they was too fast! Went boltin' down that-a-ways."
Jenn and Neil give her an exasperated look as she continues her story, "Anyhow, y'alls got some certified grade-A freaks in this town, that's for sure."
Neil groans, "Tell us about it. Anything else you wish to add to this incident, ma'am?"
Jenn narrows her eyes. She knows that Neil is getting annoyed and impatient, but they've got a job to do (and they haven't even had breakfast yet!). Might as well make it count for something, right?
"Naw."
Jenn focuses her gaze, "This...property isn't even yours, young lady. I know the owners--"
The young woman interrupts, "I'm their granddaughter, officer. Just doin' a little house sittin'. They're on vacation. Heh. Good timing if y'all ask me."
Neil taps his foot as he asks, "So, you're positive you didn't get a good look at the perp? No distinguishing marks, tattoos, no um...nasty facial features."
"Nope."
Neil flips his notebook shut, adjusts his belt, and says, "Well, that's that. If there's anything else, please do let us know."
Jenn nods in agreement and flashes a quick smile as she and her partner walk back to their squad car.
The young woman raises her eyebrows, "Y'alls not gonna take a look around, gather evidence or nuthin'?" Neil and Jenn shrug as they ignore her.
Jenn looks at him and sighs, "She's so fucking clueless!" She chuckles and shakes her head.
Neil rubs his stomach, "C'mon, I'm starvin' over here. Let's swing by the diner."
Jenn laughs and slaps him on the shoulder, "Right. As long as you pay!"
The young woman waves her hand in front of them, but they don't notice.
The young woman sneers, "Fuckin' cops. As useless as the ones down in Las Estrellas." She goes back and looks at the damage done to the kitchen area. It could've been worse, all things considered.
Jenn and Neil are back on the road. Neil's driving as Jenn's window is rolled down. She's got a lit cigarette in her right hand.
Neil notices that her fingernails are a bit chipped and the ends are starting to split.
Jenn notices this and chuckles, "Yeah, yeah, I need a manicure."
Neil shrugs, "Heh. So, is it true, then?"
"Hmmmm?"
"What they're saying about the McMahons dying in a fire?"
"Mm-hmmmm."
Neil shakes his head, "Damn. They were good people."
Jenn takes another puff of her cigarette, "I know."
Neil continues, "Traffic was nuts last night, no wonder the firetrucks didn't arrive in time. What do you think caused it? Accident? Gas leak? Maybe a candle knocked over? Who knows?"
Jenn replies, "Honestly, it's too early to tell. Last I heard, they're still pulling out the remains and trying to ID 'em."
"Mayor Duncan's gotta say something about all this, right?"
Jenn casually blows some smoke out the window, "Of course he will. William McMahon was his cousin."
Neil adds, "And one of his biggest donors."
Jenn cocks her head and asks, "Hey, Neil. Where were you yesterday? You missed open-mic night at the bar."
Neil almost loses grip of the steering wheel as he's asked this question. He avoids eye contact as he pretends to intently focus on the road, "I...was, uh, busy with something else."
"Yeah? Like what?"
"It's--I don't...want to talk about it."
Jenn pokes at him with her cigarette-holding hand, "Aw c'mon!"
Neil repeatedly swallows, "Just trust me on this, OK? The less you know, the better."
Jenn shrugs, "Fine. Keep your secrets from me."
Neil groans and shakes his head.
The remainder of the drive is spent in awkward and tense silence. The squad car pulls up to a diner. Jenn carelessly tosses her cigarette to the ground and stomps on it.
Neil walks around to Jenn and asks, "So, what do you want?"
Jenn raises her eyebrows, "Hmph. The usual. Doughnuts and coffee."
Ah, the quintessential cop meal.
Neil sighs as he goes to the diner to pick up their breakfast.
Jenn stands outside, her hands on her hips. She glances at the cigarette butt on the ground and says to herself, "What's Neil tryna hide from me, huh? I'm his fuckin' partner for fuck's sake!"
Jenn sighs and runs her fingers through her hair as she wonders what could possibly be so secretive.
Neil exits the diner with 2 coffees in a carrier, a white box, and a plastic bag.
Neil offers his partner one of the coffees and Jenn gladly takes it, "Oh! Thanks! Smells like...vanilla?"
Neil smiles, "Yeah. It's uh, some fancy kind. Deal of the day or some shit."
Jenn opens the white box to find 6 doughnuts- 3 glazed, 1 jelly, 1 custard-filled, and 1 with coconut sprinkles.
Jenn smiles and licks her lips, "Oh yeah. Now THAT'S what I call breakfast." They walk back to their squad car as Neil sits down in the passenger's side, puts down the box and grabs himself a doughnut. He looks up as he realizes that Jenn is sitting behind the wheel now.
He smirks, "You gonna drive?" He rolls his eyes and shifts his butt, trying to get comfortable in his seat.
Jenn takes the jelly doughnut and bites into it, "Mmmmmm. Yep. This is good." Some jelly drips down her chin.
Jenn licks her lips, takes a sip of her vanilla coffee, and continues, "We should go to the hospital and check in on that crazy chick who rammed her car into the Nimbus building yesterday."
Neil, with his mouth full of custard doughnut, says, "Yep. Get her booked."
He swallows and asks, "Did anyone press charges against her yet?"
"Not that I know of, nope."
"Either way, we gotta book her for property damage, right?"
Jenn sighs, "Yep. But first, we eat."
Neil smiles as Jenn continues eating, "A good meal before booking a crazy bitch, what a nice way to start the day, eh?"
Jenn smirks, "Yeeep."
The rest of the meal is spent in relative silence as the duo munch through the remaining doughnuts. They toss the box and cups in a near-overflowing trash can and head to the hospital to see Annette and take her to the station.
In the hospital...
Room 204. Annette's eyes flutter open. She frowns as she notices the handcuffs are securely chained to the side of her hospital bed.
"Ugh...so tired."
A person in a white lab coat walks in. Annette's vision is blurry, so she can't make out who they are. Her mouth is parched, so she tries to speak, but instead croaks, "Hhhhh. Nnhh."
The person in the lab coat leans over Annette. She notices the doctor tag.
A man's voice is heard, "Ah. Annette, is it? Nasty crash you had yesterday. It could've been worse. Heh." The doctor taps a clipboard with a pen and says, "Let's see, your name's Annette Lawson, correct?"
Annette weakly nods her head. She musters up some strength and asks, "Where's...Dr. Sandoval. Yesterday, he--"
The doctor gasps as he hears Dr. Sandoval's name being mentioned, "Oh, you didn't hear? Tommy, I mean...Dr. Sandoval was found in an alleyway, stabbed to death. They're still trying to piece together what happened."
The doctor looks distraught. He clears his throat, "In the meantime, I'm taking over."
"Nn...no..." Annette starts to hyperventilate, "But, how am I gonna--oh god..."
The doctor places his hand on Annette's shoulder, "Relax, Ms. Lawson. You're in capable hands."
Annette is now fully awake and her eyes are wide. She asks , "Stabbed?! But--"
The doctor stares at the floor, "It's a tragedy. Dr. Sandoval was one of our best doctors. We're all going to miss him very much. I know I will."
The doctor sighs deeply, "Well, I must be off." He leaves the room and attends to his other duties.
Annette turns her head away from the doctor and quietly sobs. Her breathing is labored, as she feels the tears trickle down her cheeks. Her voice is shaky, "My god...what is happening?!"
Her breathing becomes rapid, her pulse races. The heart rate monitor beeps faster as her eyes start to roll back in her head. Her eyelids close and she passes out. The heart rate monitor goes back to normal and Annette is soundly asleep.
Back to our duo...
Jenn and Neil have now made their way to the hospital and they're checking in to see if Annette is ready to be taken to the station. They notice a nurse leaving Annette's room. They look at each other.
Jenn raises an eyebrow, "Is the suspect awake?"
The nurse plainly responds, "Yes."
Neil shrugs, "So, can we take her to the station?"
The nurse answers, "Not yet."
Neil groans as Jenn asks, "What? Why?"
"She needs her rest. It's clear she's still traumatized from her accident, as anyone would be. A few more hours and then she's all yours, officers. I have other patients to attend to, if you don't mind."
The nurse leaves the officers and attends to his other patients.
Jenn crosses her arms and says to her partner, "Looks like we're gonna be here for a while."
Neil grunts, "Again. I hate hospitals. Don't like 'em." He looks over his shoulder.
Jenn nods, "Agreed."
Neil shakes his head, "We just gotta make sure she's in good shape, so to speak. We'll take her back to the station for questioning, then book her, right?"
Jenn twitches, "Yep."
Neil heads over to the vending machine and sees that it's out of order. He curses as he lightly kicks the vending machine.
The janitor from yesterday notices this and clicks his tongue, "Outta order. Probably cuz you went ape-shit on it yesterday. Hah. Joke's on you."
Neil gives the janitor a dirty look and goes back to his partner. He lets out an exaggerated sigh as he sits next to her.
Jenn turns to him, "Hey. You OK, tiger?"
Neil nods.
After a while of their backsides getting numbed on the seats, Neil and Jenn decide to get up and take a slow walk down a hallway. They can hear the beeping of heart monitors, the rattle of IV stands, the murmurs of patients, and the muffled voice of a nurse.
2 nurses are conversing in very hushed tones in one of the hallways, "Look, I just need a couple of bags, OK?"
Neil and Jenn stop and listen.
"You realize what you're asking me to do?!"
"Shit goes missing from here all the time."
"Yeah, but not THAT. People need it for transfusions, you know."
"Look, if you're not gonna give me some, I'm gonna go somewhere else."
"Fine! Grab a few bags! But this is the last time I'm helping, you hear me?"
"T--Thanks. You uh, gonna be there for Dr. Sandoval's funeral?"
The other nurse sighs, "Yes. Of course I will. He was a good doctor." She walks off as Neil and Jenn stare at each other.
Neil asks, "What in the hell was that?"
Jenn raises and curves her brows, "Sounds like they were dealing coke or something."
Neil straightens his belt, "You wanna bust 'em or something? I mean, you're right, we should at least report 'em." He rubs his forehead, "Maybe they'll get fired for this?"
He shrugs, "I dunno. What do you think?"
Jenn bites her lower lip, "Let's keep it between us for now. If we catch them in the act, then we'll bust 'em. Sound fair?"
"Hell yeah."
An uneventful hour or so later, and a nurse approaches the officers and says, "Ms. Lawson is awake and ready to be discharged from the hospital." Neil and Jenn nod as they stand up. The nurse takes the officers to Annette's room.
Annette looks at them with a look of dread on her face. She's pale and her hair is slightly disheveled.
Despite resting in a hospital, she looks like she hasn't slept in days. The nurse leaves the room as Neil and Jenn approach Annette.
Neil says, "Alright, princess. Just a quick lil visit to the station, OK?"
Annette shakes her head, "I--I didn't do anything wrong!"
Neil laughs, "Pffft. Nice try. You coulda killed someone yesterday. Besides, we have you on traffic enforcement cam footage. You really think we're gonna let that slide?" He narrows his eyes at her.
Annette swallows hard, "No...I guess not."
Neil crosses his arms, "Good. Now, come with us nice and easy."
Jenn smirks and adds, "No need to make a scene like you and that redhead in that video going all..." She makes a talking gesture with her fingers and mouths a few swear words, "...all over the place. You know."
Neil chuckles, "Yeah, that shit's viral. Congratulations, Ms. Lawson. You and that friend of yours have made our sleepy little town famous. Heh."
Annette sneers, "She's NOT my friend."
Jenn nods, "Sure, sure."
Jenn walks over to Annette and uncuffs her from her hospital bed. Annette gets up and wobbles a bit.
Neil says, "Whoa! Hey, slow down there. I thought they flushed all the booze outta ya."
Annette struggles to stand and she weakly says, "I--I don't feel so good."
Jenn scoffs, "Yeah, nice try. But you're not getting out of this easily."
Neil pats her on the back, "C'mon, you can walk fine, just follow us."
Neil and Jenn escort Annette to the police car. She stumbles and almost falls, but Neil catches her.
Neil whispers in her ear, "What did we say about NOT making a scene, huh?!" He tightens his grip around Annette's arm. She flinches, but to no avail.
Jenn holds the squad car door open while Neil shoves her into the backseat. Neil slams the door shut and goes to the other side, getting in the passenger's seat.
Jenn sits down and starts the car, "OK, now we just gotta drop her off at the station."
"Yep."
Jenn notices Annette from the rearview mirror and asks her partner, "Hey, Neil. She doesn't look so good. Ya think we should--"
Neil shakes his head in disbelief, "Nah, she's probably faking it. Let's just get to the station and process her."
Jenn nods, "Alright then."
The ride to the Plaintry police station is bumpy. Traffic isn't too dense, compared to last night, but it's still slow-going. The police station is located downtown and it's a 30 minute drive from the hospital.
A 30 minute drive that seems to go on for hours. Neil drums his fingers on his leg as he stares out the window.
Annette's breathing is getting erratic and she begins to shake uncontrollably. Jenn looks at Neil, "Uh, Neil? What's wrong with her?"
Neil turns around and notices that Annette is throwing up on the car seat.
He groans and says, "Aw, fuck! She's gonna get that nasty shit on my seat!"
Jenn shouts, "What the hell, Neil!?"
Annette continues to vomit and Neil says, "Oh, for fuck's sake! Stop the car, Jenn."
Jenn slams the breaks, which causes Annette to jerk forward. Neil jumps out of the car, opens the backseat door, and grabs Annette by her hand. He pulls her out of the car and onto the pavement. He curses at her, "Shit! You just HAD TO puke all over my damn car, didn't ya?!"
Jenn gets out of the car and barks, "NEIL! Cool it!"
Neil throws up his hands and walks to the trunk of the squad car to get a blanket, "Ughhhhhh. Stupid bitch. Look what she did to my car." He tosses the blanket to Jenn, who immediately places it on Annette.
Jenn's nose scrunches as she covers Annette, "Phew! That's...that's rank. Was it Taco Tuesday at the hospital?" Annette continues to retch and vomit.
Neil shakes his head, "I mean, who the hell pukes in the backseat of a police car, right?!"
Jenn replies, "Plenty of pot-heads, junkies, and drunks."
Neil chuckles, "Heh. True."
Annette weakly mutters, "I--I don't feel so good."
Jenn shakes her head, "Yeah, nice try. If you think you can get out of this by faking an illness, then you're sorely mistaken."
Annette groans and vomits again, "Agh!"
Jenn grimaces, "Geez. Maybe we should take her back to the hospital? I mean, she's gotta be sick, right?"
Neil sighs, "No, the sooner we're done with this, the better. We'll get her booked. The other guys will deal with her." He points at Jenn, "But I'm telling ya, Jenn, YOU'RE cleaning up the mess in the backseat."
Jenn sighs, "Fine. Fine. Whatever. Look, station's not too far off. Let's walk there and get her booked."
Annette struggles to stand up. Neil grabs her arm and says, "C'mon, Ms. Lawson. Time for a lil walk. Have you feeling good in no time."
Annette stumbles as Neil and Jenn struggle to escort her to the station.
Fast forward an hour or so...
The booking goes well. Or as well as these things usually go. Annette is too pale and weak to even stand up for a mugshot, so she gets away with giving a fingerprint instead. A small victory for her, perhaps.
She's told she'll be spending the night here. She doesn't have the energy to argue. She just sits down on her horribly uncomfortable cell bed and blankly stares at the wall.
Neil and Jenn approach the cell.
Neil says, "Well. Here we are." He shakes his head, "You made a fine mess in my car."
Annette looks up at them. She's still pale and sweaty.
Jenn frowns, "I think we should get her tested for drugs. She looks awful."
Neil grins as he replies, "Maybe we should. Ever pee in a cup before, princess?"
Annette glares at them as she struggles to sit up.
Neil chuckles, "Anyway. Date's all set for your Arraignment. Tomorrow morning. Until then, enjoy the five star accommodations at PPD."
Jenn leans against the bars and smirks, "Don't go anywhere." She winks at Annette.
Neil turns to his partner, "C'mon, Jenn. Let's get out of here." Jenn nods and the duo leaves, leaving Annette alone.
Annette buries her face in her hands and sobs quietly.
This is NOT how she imagined her life would pan out. Not in a million years. She's very likely out of a job. Even if she did find a new job, her reputation in this town would be forever tainted. She's got no friends, either.
And to top it off, she's stuck in jail, facing what could very well be a ton of criminal charges.
She puts her arms around her body as she shivers. Her body is racked with pain as her eyes well up with tears.
"Why me? What did I do to deserve this? Why?"
She starts to hyperventilate and her vision starts to blur. She feels like she's going to pass out. She struggles to breathe as her chest tightens.
She coughs and gags, "I need...help."
She can feel her heart beating faster and faster as she falls onto the floor, her body convulsing.
She mutters, "I...need...help."
The cell door suddenly swings open and Annette is met with an unearthly aura. She turns her head towards the door and sees a slender figure standing in front of her.
He looks to be in his late 30s. His hair is slightly messy. He's wearing thick glasses. His face looks drawn. He's dressed in a black suit with a black tie.
Annette groans, "Help--"
The man smiles and crouches besides Annette, "It's me, Annette. Dr. Willie." He pulls out a flashlight and stethoscope.
Annette croaks, "W--what?"
The doctor nods, "Don't worry. I'm here to help you. Can you tell me your last name, please?" he asks as he shines his flashlight into Annette's eyes.
Annette shakes her head, "L--Lawson."
Dr. Willie nods, "OK. Very good. It seems that you might have had an anxiety attack. You're gonna be just fine. Just breathe slowly. Deep breaths, OK?"
Annette nods, "OK."
Dr. Willie checks her pulse and blood pressure. He notices that her body temperature is lower than normal and he says, "I'm going to take your temperature, alright."
Annette barely nods as Dr. Willie places a thermometer in her mouth. After a few moments, he removes it and frowns, "Hmmm. Your temperature is quite low."
He looks at Annette and says, "You must've been running a fever when you were brought in. That's why you're feeling so weak and tired."
Annette shakes her head, "I--I was f--fine yesterday."
"Ah, yes. I heard you crashed your car into a building. A bit of a wild ride, eh?" He laughs and Annette winces.
Dr. Willie continues, "S--Sorry. My bad. Well, I'll have some meds for you in the morning. Hopefully, they'll make you feel better."
As he's packing his things into his bag, he says, "I don't mean to sound insensitive, but your friend Maya still hasn't made an appointment to see me. I've been trying to get a hold of her, but she never responds."
Annette raises an eyebrow and heaves, "Fu--Fuck off. I don't ever...wanna hear that name again."
Dr. Willie gulps as he notices Annette's expression change from scared and confused to angry and furious.
He quickly packs up his things and says, "Well, I should get going. I hope you feel better soon. I'll uh--" He leaves the cell and Annette is alone once again.
Neil and Jenn hang around the station. Neil points over to Dr. Willie and asks, "Who's that goober?"
Jenn says, "Dr. Willie. He's here to sign Dr. Sandoval's death certificate, I think."
Neil's face tics when Jenn mentions the deceased doctor, "Oh, yeah. That guy."
Jenn notices Neil shifting around and asks, "Hey, you OK?"
Neil nods, "Yeah. Yeah. Just, y'know. The usual."
"The usual. Can't believe you missed open-mic night. What's the big deal?"
Neil sighs, "I was busy...with stuff, OK? Look, it's no big deal. Let's just drop it."
Jenn lean in close and whispers, "Neil, what the fuck is going on with you?"
Neil shakes his head, "Nothing. Nothing's going on with me. I'm fine."
Jenn crosses her arms, "You sure?"
"Ten-Four."
Jenn smirks and shakes her head, "Remember what they told us at the police academy? 'Partners should have no secrets. 101% transparency.'"
Neil groans, "Yeah, yeah, I know. But it's...complicated."
Jenn sighs, "What's so complicated about it? You can tell me anything, Neil. I'm your partner."
Neil erratically rubs his forehead, "I know. I know. It's just..."
Jenn gently pats him on the shoulder, "C'mon, Neil."
Sweat beads drip down Neil's forehead. He grits his teeth and says, "L--Let's go somewhere private."
Jenn is a bit suspicious of his request, but she nods, "OK."
They walk to the corner of the break room and Neil shuts the door. He locks it and turns to Jenn, "It's about Dr. Sandoval."
Jenn's eyes widen a bit, "What about him? You know who killed him?"
Neil swallows, "What I'm about to say can't leave this room. Promise me, Jenn."
Jenn has a slight frown but she slowly nods, "Promise. Now spit it out."
Neil takes a deep breath and says, "I killed the son of a bitch."
Jenn's jaw drops, "You WHAT?!" She's speechless. She's never seen Neil act so...serious. So grim.
Neil quickly covers Jenn's mouth, "Shhhh!" He then continues, "You saw how he disrespected the badge yesterday! I couldn't let that shit slide. People in this town need to learn to respect the badge."
Jenn removes Neil's hand from her mouth and says, "Why?"
Neil sighs, "He probably knew something about the other night, too. Y'know the one where Eunice went to town on that homeless guy."
Jenn's eyes widen even more, "I--I know, but--"
Neil nods, "Yeah. Eunice. She fuckin' scares me, Jenn. And if I go down for this, I'm sure as hell taking you all down with me, you hear me?"
Jenn's mouth hangs open. She's completely stunned. She's never seen Neil like this before. She's known him for years.
Jenn puts her hands on her head and breathes in and out, "Neil, how do we expect to keep THIS under wraps, huh?"
Neil sneers, "You shouldn't have pressed me, Jenn! Now, you're in this with me. We're in this shit together. You and me. You understand?!"
Jenn nods, "Yeah. Yeah. I understand."
Neil points at her, "Good. We probably need to tell Eunice, too. She needs to know."
Jenn shakes her head, "What?! Fuck no! You said it yourself, she's fuckin' scary!"
Neil tugs on his earlobe, "S--So what do we do now, huh? I was planning on riding this out. I--I made sure to clean up the crime scene. No evidence. Nothing. They won't find anything. I swear."
Jenn puts her hands on her hips, "We gotta keep our heads down. We can't let anyone else know about this. You couldn't have come to me before deciding to take matters into your hands?!" she asks, her tone accusatory.
Neil looks away, "And what, do it YOUR way? Plant some coke, pot, and ecstasy on him, arrest him for possession? Then, get him to confess?"
He scoffs, "That won't stick for long and you know it."
Jenn shakes her head, "Fuck." She focuses her gaze and asks, "You're absolutely SURE this can't be traced back to you?"
Neil nods, "Yes. Yes. I'm sure."
Jenn runs her fingers through her hair, "Shit. Shit. Shit. OK. OK. We...need to keep this between us. No one else. Got it?"
Neil nods, "Don't have to tell me twice."
She sighs, "Alright. Alright. We'll figure this out."
He looks at her, "Yeah. We'll figure this out."
She takes a deep breath and says, "OK. Let's get back to work."
He nods, "OK."
They walk out of the break room and Jenn notices that Dr. Willie is hanging around, awkwardly standing near the coffee machine. He's holding a cup of coffee.
Neil whispers to Jenn, "Who exactly is that guy?"
Jenn nods, "He's got a private practice here in town. You should check him out. He's actually quite good."
Neil shrugs, "Eh, maybe."
Dr. Willie walks over to them and says, "It's...it's a damn shame."
Neil folds his arms, stands up straight, and asks, "What is?"
"The death of Dr. Tom Sandoval. His friends used to call him Tommy. He was a good man. A good doctor. It's a real shame."
Jenn nods, "Yeah. It is."
Dr. Willie continues, "I hope you can catch whoever did this. Such a senseless act. Stabbed repeatedly in the abdomen, in an alleyway. H--He died all alone."
Neil and Jenn look at each other.
Dr. Willie sighs, "Well, I should be off. I have my duties to attend to. Have a good afternoon, officers. And, please, catch the person who did this. Dr. Sandoval deserves justice."
He walks off and Jenn says, "Damn. That was...odd."
Neil avoids eye contact and nods, "Yeah. It was."
Jenn sighs, "You could've at least taken his wallet and made it look like a mugging gone wrong, you know."
Neil shakes his head and speaks in a hushed tone, "What's done is done, Jenn."
Jenn breathes out, "Hmph. I guess. Let's just...get back to work."
Neil nods, "Yeah. Let's."
The duo return to their squad car and drive off into the sunny afternoon. Jenn's stomach starts to rumble, so they decide to stop off at the diner and grab some food.
It's probably not a great idea for Jenn to eat, what with her new-found knowledge of Neil's involvement in the death of Dr. Sandoval. Still, she's is starving and can't help it.
The 2 of them head inside.
Neil is sitting at a table in the far corner while Jenn orders a hamburger and fries. Pickles for Neil's burger and no mayo for Jenn's- just like last time.
The order is placed and the 2 officers begin their lunch.
Jenn notices that Neil is uncharacteristically silent. He's picking at his food, seemingly lost in thought. Jenn sighs and looks at the TV behind the counter.
She sees news reports of the fire that incinerated the McMahon mansion last night. She shakes her head in disbelief.
Neil says, "I know. It's a shame, Jenn. The McMahons were good people."
Jenn turns to her partner and says, "Yeah. It's a real shame. You think it's foul play?"
Neil shrugs as pickle juice dribbles down his chin, "Who knows? Either way, there's gonna be an investigation. We should see what we can dig up, though..."
Jenn nods, "Yeah. I got your back, partner."
Neil pulls out his phone and scrolls through his picture gallery. He shows Jenn a picture of him and William McMahon, standing together and smiling.
The McMahon patriarch is wearing a "Back The Blue" T-Shirt, while Neil is wearing his police uniform.
"There we go, Mr. William and I at a town event, probably." Neil shows Jenn the photo and she can't help but smile, "I didn't know you guys were buddies, Neil."
Neil clenches his jaw, "At least the McMahons knew what it took to keep this damn town safe and orderly."
Neil slams his fist onto the table as he thinks about what he did to Dr. Sandoval, "This isn't how I expected this to go down. If people just learned to RESPECT the badge, maybe shit like this wouldn't happen. We'd have less work to do, but, oh no...they had to be stupid."
He looks over at the TV screen again. He sighs and takes a large bite of his burger.
Jenn places her hand on Neil's and says, "Whoa, slow down tiger. I don't need you to blow a gasket on me here." She takes a sip of her coffee as Neil swallows the bite in his mouth. He mumbles and groans.
He sighs, "It's just that...well...never mind."
Jenn leans closer and narrows her eyes. She doesn't want any more secrets, "Spit it out, Neil. I mean it." She holds onto Neil's arm as he struggles to talk.
Neil swallows a piece of meat. His throat feels a little sore, so he takes a sip of his orange soda, looks up at Jenn and asks, "It's just...do you ever get the feeling that this town's gonna be the death of us?"
Jenn looks into Neil's eyes for a moment and smiles, "You're not gonna die on me, Neil. You know that."
Neil shakes his head and chuckles, "I sure as hell hope not."
Jenn pops a couple of fries into her mouth and asks, "What do you mean by that, anyways?"
"I mean, all this talk of vampires and shit. You saw what Annette said about that redhead in the video, right? Said she claimed to have been bitten by vampires or something."
Jenn shrugs and takes a bite of her burger, "And?"
Neil says, "It's just weird that someone would claim something so outrageous like that and actually believe it, that's all."
"There's 13,000 people in this town, give or take a few dozen or so. There's bound to be some crazies mixed in."
Neil nods, "True, but..."
"But what, Neil?" Jenn asks. She swirls her fries in a bowl of tomato ketchup.
Neil, with his eyes full of suspicion, adds, "Just, something ain't right around here."
Jenn keeps a rigid expression, "Look, a few days back, I heard some guys at the station saying they went to check out a disturbance late at night, right? Guess what, found nothing. Must've been a prank call."
Jenn sips her drink and continues, "Maybe that redhead's just crazy, or she's got an active imagination, or maybe she's just telling stories to get attention. Who cares?"
Neil suggests, "We should probably bring her in for a little chat? To determine if there's any truth to her statement."
Jenn shakes her head, "We're NOT wasting department time and resources to go out looking for Dracula."
Neil lowers his head as he finishes off his burger.
They spend a little longer at the diner before returning to the squad car. Jenn asks Neil what they should both do next.
Neil replies, "I wanna swing by the McMahon mansion. I wanna be involved in the investigation, Jenn."
Jenn asks, "Don't you wanna get back to the station?"
Neil cracks his knuckles, "I need to know what happened to them!"
She asks, "How are we gonna explain our involvement, hmmm? Last I heard, the place was already crawling with feds. And they've got the Chief, the Mayor, and probably everyone else involved."
"They might miss something important, Jenn," he insists.
She rolls her eyes, "Fine. We'll swing by."
He shouts at her, "They were fine people who understood how important it is to respect the badge!"
Jenn looks at Neil. She sees his jaw muscles clench. She looks out the window, "I know, I know. It's just that...if the chief finds out we were snooping around the site, we could get reprimanded or worse."
She continues, "And Internal Affairs would have a field day going through OUR record."
Neil shakes his head and grits his teeth, "Jenn. I need to know." He then mumbles under his breath, "And you have to promise me that you won't breathe a word of this to anyone."
Jenn scoffs, "What choice do I have."
"I'm...I'm asking for your discretion, your...loyalty. That was the other thing they told us back at the academy, remember?" Neil asks, a tinge of desperation in his tone.
Jenn shakes her head and chuckles, "You're serious? What if we do end up with a bunch of crazy arsonists on our hands? Huh?"
Neil mumbles, "Then, we deal with the fuckers. The Plaintry way."
Jenn smirks, "No trial. No witnesses. No jury. No power-tripping judge. Just bullets?"
He shrugs and sighs, "We'd make it quick and easy."
She asks, "What about the aftermath of our hypothetical arsonist hunt?"
He clenches his fist, "Let me worry about that."
Jenn frowns, "Damnit, Neil! We're getting worked-up and excited over hypotheticals here! For all we know, it could've been a gas leak! You wanna waste all your energy chasing after ghost arsonists or some shit that probably doesn't even exist?"
Neil looks down and says, "Just...drive the damn car."
Jenn rolls her eyes, "You got it."
Neil presses on, "Besides, how in the flying fuck does a WHOLE GODDAMN MANSION burn to the fucking ground? Hmmm?"
Jenn looks at the rear view mirror and sees a small squad of federal vehicles follow behind her car.
She replies, "To be fair, the fire trucks couldn't even make it to the mansion, much less contain the blaze. The only reason why it didn't spread to other areas is because it burned itself out."
Neil huffs, "Yeah, don't forget yesterday's INSANE traffic. See? This reeks of something foul, Jenn."
Jenn reminds her partner, "Well, we can't go around blurting this out at the station or else we'd end up looking like that crazy redhead and her pal. The whole town already knows what happened, and besides, the feds have the case covered. And if it is foul play, the feds are going to get the case."
"What?!"
"Look, I'm not dismissing what you said about this being foul play, I'm just saying WE have no authority here, you get that right? We're supposed to be out there on the beat, Neil. If you're hellbent on finding out who did it, then we should investigate...other leads."
"'We'?" he asks as his eyebrow raises.
"Well, yeah. 'We' as in, you and I," Jenn says with a nod.
Neil rubs the back of his head and sighs, "Where do we even start, Jenn? I ain't no detective. I tried taking the tests, but that didn't pan out well."
"Well, there's a couple of other suspects that could have something to do with this, right?"
Jenn isn't too keen on entertaining her partner's ideas, but it's been a slow day for Plaintry (despite what happened last night). No news reports, no news articles.
It's been an unusually quiet morning.
Not at all unusual in a laid-back town in the American Northeast.
Jenn plays along just to make sure Neil doesn't go rogue, "Sure. Someone who uh, had it out for the McMahons?"
Neil taps the dashboard with his finger as Jenn drives the squad car down the empty streets, "Had it out for 'em? Well, that doesn't narrow it down, Jenn. I mean, the McMahons said some crazy things that I uh...that some folks didn't necessarily agree with. Their whole obsession with gay people was kinda weird."
"Hmmm. Yeah. You got a point," Jenn admits.
He asks, "Y--You think some LGBT group torched their mansion?"
She shakes her head and laughs, "WHOA! Don't go around saying that, dumbass! Last thing we need is every trigger-happy Bible-thumper in this town getting ideas."
Neil frowns, "OK. OK. I guess I got ahead of myself."
Jenn chuckles and shakes her head.
He continues, "Whatever it is, we'll get to the bottom of it."
She corrects her partner, "THE FEDS will get to the bottom of it and you can read about it in the newspapers."
"Hmph," Neil grunts as he continues, "Not that I d--doubt the ability of the feds or anything, but there's something in my gut telling me this was intentional."
"Until we got evidence, everything is just speculation. Plain and simple."
Neil reluctantly agrees, "Yeah."
The rest of the ride is spent in silence. Eventually, the duo get to what was once the opulent McMahon mansion.
There is police tape surrounding the perimeter of the mansion. They see that there are still quite a few feds there.
There is a bunch of charred wood, broken glass, and other debris littering the front yard and the driveway.
Neil is shocked by the large pile of ash. People in protective suits sift through the remains. There's a white sheet laid out, with what appears to be extremely charred remains on the ground.
Jenn comments, "Geez, th--they were in the mansion when the fire started?"
Neil nods. He mumbles under his breath as he counts, "E--Eight people."
He spots a small gathering of reporters, all of them asking questions to a group of federal agents, one of whom is an older gentleman wearing a blue FBI jacket and off-white shirt.
Jenn winces as she leans down to take a closer look at the charred corpses (or what's left of them).
She frowns and says, "This...is messed up, Neil. Fucked up."
Neil sighs, "Yeah, it is."
He asks, "Ya think they would've at least phoned for help, but, nah. The mansion is all the way out here, a ways off from civilization."
She replies, "True. The McMahons really valued their privacy, huh?"
"I don't blame 'em."
The rest of the duo's afternoon is spent poking around the place, conversing with federal agents who don't seem too keen on sharing what they've learned so far.
A couple of reporters try to question Neil and Jenn, but the duo just shake their heads and move along.
Eventually, the older gentleman from before approaches the duo. The officers get a good look at him.
He's in his 50s. Thinning gray hair, thick eyebrows, and a square jaw. His nose looks like it's been broken a few times. He's wearing aviators, a blue FBI jacket, loose black tie, and an off-white shirt. He has a slight frown on his face.
He introduces himself as Special Agent Higgins, "I'm sure you're aware of the situation here, officers. I'm sure you're also aware that this is a federal matter."
Jenn nods, "Yes, we are."
Neil extends his hand, "We're...uh here to help in the investigation. I'm Officer Neil and this is my partner Jenn."
Special Agent Higgins doesn't shake Neil's hand and continues, "This is still an investigation in progress. Unless you got good reason to be here, I'm gonna need you both to get in your car and go back to whatever it is you were doing."
Neil clenches his jaw as he withdraws his hand.
Higgins continues, his southern accent strong, "I don't know what y'all expected to find here, but the Federal Bureau of Investigation has got this covered. So, unless you have any new information to share with us, then I'm gonna have to ask you to leave."
He removes his aviators and rubs them on his jacket. His green eyes are heavy and weary. He clearly hasn't slept much, if at all.
He puts his shades back on and sighs, "Unless, of course, you 2 came all this way to share something with us?"
Neil and Jenn exchange glances.
She shakes her head, "N--No, we don't have anything."
Higgins nods, "Then I suggest you 2 leave."
He walks away from the 2 as he barks orders to some other agents.
Jenn nudges Neil, "Let's go. We don't wanna get into trouble, right?"
Neil grits his teeth and mumbles, "He doesn't understand."
Jenn sighs, "Look, the feds have jurisdiction. This is THEIR case. They're not gonna tell us jack shit about the investigation."
Neil groans. He says, "Fine. Let's go." He starts walking towards the squad car.
Neil slams the door shut as Jenn gets in the driver's seat. The engines roar to a start and the duo drive off.
Neil sighs as he slumps back in his seat, "Damn it. That was a complete waste of time."
She nods, "Yeah. It was."
He continues, "But that ain't the end of it. I KNOW that something just...ain't right, Jenn. I--I feel it in my gut."
Jenn sarcastically remarks, "You sure that ain't your stomach ulcers acting up again?"
Neil shakes his head.
He looks at Jenn and asks, "You think that FBI guy is hiding something?"
Jenn shrugs, "I don't know, Neil. He's FBI, for crying out loud. Why'd HE wanna hide anything?"
Neil scratches his chin, "Maybe...he knows something?"
She shakes her head and asks, "Wow, since when did YOU start wearing the tinfoil hat, huh? What would he have to gain by keeping information from us? I mean, it's not like we're the only cops in town, Neil. If there's something really important, we'll hear about it."
"We better."
Little did Neil know about the real cause of the McMahon mansion fire and the deaths of its occupants. Little did he know that this was only the beginning.
Little did he know about the events that were to unfold in the coming nights.
He'd probably find out. But for now, he and Jenn spend the rest of the drive in relative silence.
As the sun sets, the town is slowly being blanketed by darkness. The only illumination comes from the street lights slowly flickering on and the headlights of passing cars (bikes and buses, too).
The evening sky is relatively clear and the night air is cool and crisp.
The Kindred of Plaintry gradually prepare to awaken from their day-sleep.
Arman is the first to come awake from his day-sleep. The Ventrue slowly opens his eyes. He glances around the room, sighs as he sits up and rubs his temples. He groans, "Ah. That was...pleasant, all things considered."
He walks over to his long mirror and admires his face. He remarks, "Perhaps a quick shave," as he strokes his chin.
He grabs his electric shaver and starts shaving his facial hair.
He carefully removes the thin layer of hair from his cheeks and jawline. He even cleans up and trims the edges of his sideburns. He runs his hands through his hair a few times.
He takes a deep breath and looks himself over one last time. He nods approvingly, "I look presentable enough."
He then places his shaver back down on the counter.
The next Kindred to awaken is Brock. The Tzimisce takes the blood- and pus-stained medical sheet off the bed, folds it, and shoves it in his duffel bag. Before doing so, he looks at it as the traumatic memories come flooding back to him.
He grimaces as he thinks about how his Sire not only put him back together but also saved him.
He glances around the guest room. He shrugs and shakes his head, "This place was OK."
He zips his duffel bag and stretches out his arms. He heads for Arman's living room.
Simon, Ginny, Jimmy, and Jacob emerge from their rooms, one by one. The Lasombra quartet look at each other, exchange glances, and nod.
They silently walk towards the sofas and sit down.
They all gather around the table and wait patiently for their host, Arman, to join them.
Rolf, Arman's Ghoul, greets the group, "Guten Abend (DE: Good evening)."
The Kindred all turn and look at Rolf.
Brock pats Rolf on the back, "Yep. So, how's Jon? Is he still resting? I hope he's better."
Rolf nods, "Ja, he is in kitchen. Eating something."
Brock's eyes widen, "R--Really!?" He runs to the kitchen and sees his boyfriend, Jon, eating a peanut butter and jelly sandwich. Jon is almost hunched over the table and is wearing a bathrobe and slippers.
He is clearly exhausted, but he's managing to keep himself up.
Brock walks up behind Jon, who's relentlessly munching down that sandwich. The Tzimisce puts his hand on Jon's shoulder and says, "J--Jon. H--Hey, how ya feeling?"
Jon drops the sandwich on the plate and sighs, "B--Brock? Is that you?"
He wipes his mouth and turns to look at Brock, "I'm..." Jon immediately collapses onto the floor and starts spasming. He starts coughing uncontrollably, clutching his chest.
Brock gets on his knees and panics, "Jon! Jon! Jon!"
Jon's coughing fits continue as he grabs ahold of Brock and starts gasping for air. He can't speak. He just stares into Brock's eyes, tears welling up.
He struggles to breathe, his lungs feeling like they're being filled with concrete.
He starts wheezing as Brock hugs him. Brock notices the half-eaten sandwich. His eyes narrow as Rolf runs in to see what's happening.
Brock shouts, "What did you feed him, Rolf?!"
Rolf, mouth half-open, nervously replies, "Peanut butter jam sandwich. Um--"
Brock's claws extend from his fingers as he slowly strides over to the Ghoul, "Peanuts?! PEANUTS?! YOU FOOL! MORON! He's allergic!"
He grabs Rolf by the collar, "You have any FUCKING idea what you've just done?!"
Arman immediately walks in and shoves Brock away from his Ghoul, "How could you have possibly expected Rolf to know about Jon's allergies?! Need I remind you that YOU are a guest in MY Haven. How dare you lay your wretched hands on my Ghoul!"
Brock grunts and pushes the 2 aside as he runs to fetch his medical bag. He storms back in, kneels down beside Jon, and administers an EpiPen to Jon's thigh.
Jon immediately starts gasping for air, his throat now clear.
Brock hugs Jon tightly and whispers, "Every--Everything's gonna be OK, Jon. Shhhhh." Jon's breathing starts to become steady as Brock rocks him gently.
Rolf shakes his head and sighs, "I am sorry, Brock."
Brock regretfully sighs, "Arman was right. I--I overreacted."
Arman glances at Brock, "Yes, you certainly did."
The other Kindred crowd around the kitchen to see what's all the commotion about. Jon slowly goes off to sleep once again.
Ginny says, "Whoa! Close call, huh."
Jacob chimes in, "How terrible."
Jimmy shrugs and callously asks, "Got anything to drink, Arman?"
Simon walks in, hands clasped in front of him, and says, "I believe we should be leaving. We have already overstayed our welcome at Arman's Haven."
The Elder Lasombra grabs his fedora and continues, "Besides, I believe Arman would like some alone time, yes? He probably has certain...matters to attend to."
Brock carries Jon in his arms and says, "He's probably right. The sooner I'm outta this town, the sooner I can get back to Flimont City."
Ginny smirks, "Well, it's been a fun stay at Hotel Arman. Heh." She chuckles to herself.
Jimmy nods in agreement, "Yup. That's Ventrue luxury for you."
Jacob replies, "The beds were quite wobbly. Water beds, right?"
Arman nods and smiles at Jacob.
Brock places Jon on the large couch and goes to his room to get changed.
He emerges wearing a black T-shirt and track pants, "I'm ready to leave this place behind."
He walks back into the living room and sees that everyone is getting ready to leave. The Flesh-Shaper shoves his stained clothes into his duffel bag, grabs his medical bag and heads out the door with the others.
Simon stops him and says, "I know you're probably going to present yourself to the Prince, in accordance with the Fifth Tradition, but I suggest that you...forgo that for now."
Brock sighs, "Right, right, right. You're all cooking up some plans here and all. Whatever, I've already made myself clear- I DON'T want any part of that. I'd like to get that out of the way, so I can focus on taking care of Jon."
Ginny clears her throat.
Brock gets the hint and sighs, "But, I am forever grateful to you for rescuing Jon, even if I don't necessarily approve of HOW you did it, but that's your problem now."
Simon narrows his eyes, "You haven't forgotten what we agreed to, yes? About you putting in a good word for us? We could use allies like Seneschal Collins, and yes, even the Rabble Prince Roxanne."
Brock nods, "Yeah, sure...whatever you want, Mr. Simon. I'll put in a good word for you. Is there anything else?"
Simon smiles, "Tell me, how is Mr. Donovan keeping? I imagine he must be quite busy these nights."
Brock shakes his head, "Who? Big boy Luciano? Jeez, Simon. I...honestly don't know."
Simon says, "I suppose I should pay a visit to Flimont City myself, yes?"
Brock tilts his head and shoulders slightly, "Sure."
Jimmy interrupts, "Is it true what they say about Flimont City? That a fucking Baali tipped the balance of power in that city? Is that true?"
Ginny nudges Jimmy in the ribs, "Shut up, Jimmy."
She turns to Brock and says, "Don't mind him. He believes everything he hears."
Brock shrugs and initially struggles to respond,  "That...whoa. That is a story for another time, Jimmy. There was a Malkavian, too. She was...something."
Jimmy raises an eyebrow, "A Malkavian?? Hmmm." He rubs his hands and bites his lips, "I gotta get me some of that crazy one of these nights."
Ginny scoffs, "You won't be able to handle it."
Jimmy smirks as Rolf brings him half a bag of blood. He looks at the bag and says, "Aw. Only half??"
Ginny rolls her eyes, "Ugh. Just take it already."
She turns to Arman and says, "Well, I guess we better be heading out?" She holds her hand out. Arman takes it and shakes her hand.
He replies, "I'd...like to speak with you for a moment, Ginny."
Ginny smiles, "Ah. Suuuure."
Simon tips his fedora and waits near Ginny's car.
Jimmy walks out the front door while Jacob shakes Arman's hand and says, "Once again, thank you for opening up your Haven for us. May God bless you, Mr. Arman. It's a shame that you and I stay so far away from each other."
Arman warmly smiles and replies, "You're welcome, Mr. Jacob. I could not have asked for...better guests. I believe we should keep in touch, yes?"
Jacob scratches his chin and nods, "O--Of course." He leaves Arman's Haven along with Jimmy.
Jimmy is the first to start his car. He blasts the horn twice and tells Jacob, "Hurry the fuck up! I wanna swing by the pawn shop and get rid of all this loot!"
Jacob waves goodbye to Arman as he gets into the car. He slumps back and sighs, "Ah. What a night, hmm?"
Jimmy grunts and drives off.
Simon waits by Ginny's car without saying a word. Or moving an inch. He just stands there, almost ominously.
Brock is the last to leave. He nods to Arman and Ginny as he walks down the porch steps, carrying Jon in his arms.
He then places Jon in the front seat of his Fifth generation Buick Regal and fastens the seatbelt. It's maroon in color and has leather seats. He gets into the driver's seat, closes the door and turns the ignition. The engine roars to life.
He revs the engine a few times before rolling down the window.
He says goodbye to Simon, who doesn't respond. The Tzimisce just shrugs and waves his hand before driving off.
As the cars disappear from view, Arman turns to Ginny and says, "I know this is a bit unusual, but I was wondering whether you'd like to join me for...a date."
Ginny is initially surprised by this request, but she decides to go along with it. For now, at least.
She smiles and replies, "Um, sure. Sure. You uh...have anything in mind, Casanova?"
"There's this restaurant known as The Gastronova. A Ventrue owns the place, so we needn't worry about any potential breaches of the Masquerade. I can reserve us the entire restaurant in a night or 2."
Ginny shrugs, "Uh...yeah. Sure, let's do that!" She's not entirely sure what his angle is.
She stares at him and says, "Oh, and don't think a little dinner date is gonna get you off the hook in regards to the 125 grand you owe me."
Arman looks at her, his eyes narrowed.
She continues, "What you got me into...was dumb, y'know."
"And yet, here we are. I still feel that Miss Bernice can be of some use to us. Speaking of what is owed, I take it you have my Matisse? Rolf was kind enough to procure the cash. 80 thousand, as agreed, yes?"
"Yeah, but it's STILL separate from the 125,000 you owe me, just so we're clear."
Arman sighs, "I was hoping you would agree to split the difference, my dear."
Ginny grins, "You got cash, big guy. Yeah, I got your drawing. It's in my trunk. Lemme go fetch it." She winks at him.
She walks towards her car and opens the trunk. She lifts a blanket and pulls out a rectangular wooden frame. She takes a good look at the picture and shrugs in indifference.
Arman walks up behind her and admires the painting as well, "I see you've taken good care of it."
Rolf is beside him with a duffel bag full of cash.
Simon awkwardly stands in front of the car, watching the trio. He doesn't have a single word to say.
Arman hands Rolf the painting and the Ghoul carefully carries it back into the house. Ginny unzips the duffel bag and takes a wad of cash in her hands. She runs her fingers through it and sniffs it.
She looks at Arman and says, "Looks legit."
He nods and says, "You're welcome to count the rest of the money."
She takes the duffel bag and shuts the trunk, "Nah. I...trust you." She winks again and heads for the front door of her car.
She says, "Goodbye, Rolf. Take care of your boss here. Wouldn't wanna see that pretty face of his get all messed up, eh?"
Rolf curtly nods.
Simon is the last to enter the car. Ginny turns the key and the engine comes to life.
She throttles the engine a few times, "Oh yeah, baby! I'll see you at The Gastronova. Oh, and I expect you'll be bringing us...some fine meals." She bites her lip and winks at him yet again.
"Oh, of course. Only the best. I promise."
Simon chimes in, "It's a date, then."
Arman sighs as Ginny laughs and drives off. She shouts, "I'm looking forward to it, baby!"
As she drives away, Arman looks at his watch, "This is going to be a long night."
He glances at his wristwatch and says, "I suppose we should get ready for the meeting at the auditorium in a few hours' time."
Rolf asks, "Would master like to...eat now?"
Arman shakes his head, "Oh, no, Rolf. It's a bit too early. Maybe later. Thank you for your consideration."
"I do my best."
Arman places his hands on Rolf's massive shoulder, "Also, don't feel too bad about what happened to Jon. You couldn't have possibly known about the man's allergies. I knew that family for quite sometime, and they never bothered telling me about it, either. Brock was a guest in my Haven and the Traditions dictate that MY word is final in MY Haven."
Rolf nods, "I shall take master's words to heart."
Arman chuckles, "Of course, should there be a next time, not that I'm hoping for one, it's best to settle for something safer...like oatmeal, yes? Or boiled vegetables?"
Rolf replies, "Ja."
Arman heads to the living room and takes a look around.
He beckons to the stained walls and floors and groans, "Ugh. You were right, Rolf. Please call a professional cleanup crew to attend to the mess."
He also gestures to the kitchen and adds, "Oh, and make sure they're the best. No questions. No poking around. I don't like that. In the meantime, cover it up with some sheets or something."
"Right away, master."
Arman looks at the 2 couches and sits down on one of them. He leans his head back and closes his eyes, "Oh, and Rolf?" He takes his phone out and scrolls through the contact list.
"Yes?"
"Be ready. I'm going to need you to carry out some vital work on my behalf later tonight. I told you about it yesterday, didn't I? Don't worry, it's perfectly simple."
"Ja."
Arman taps the phone and calls, "Hello, this is Arman calling for Mrs. Maybelline."
He taps his foot as he nods along to the woman's voice on the other line, "Ah, hello, Mrs. Maybelline. Good evening to you, too."
Arman smirks, "I take it that you've received my text message? I'm glad to hear that."
Rolf sits up a bit as Arman continues, "Yes. Yes. I'm calling to know when is a convenient time for us to meet. I know this is short notice, but I am quite a busy man, as you can imagine."
He looks around his Haven as Mrs. Maybelline is speaking, "Hmmm. I see. That's fine. Yes, half-an-hour sounds fine. I look forward to discussing the terms of our contract."
Arman ends the call and puts his phone away, "Ah, this is going to be an interesting night."
Back at the McMahon mansion, the fire trucks, ambulances, and police cars have all cleared out. The only federal vehicles remaining are a few black SUVs.
Special Agent Higgins is on the line with someone. He's pacing back and forth, wearing his aviators, even though the sun is well below the horizon.
"Yes. Yes, I understand, ma'am. Of course. No, I don't think they're involved."
He kicks a pile of burnt wood and glass as he paces, "Yeah. I mean, how could they be? It's usually our method. Yes, I understand, Ms. Nicolaides. Have a good night."
He angrily taps the end call button and sneers, "Bitch!" He kicks another pile of charred debris.
Arman grabs a satellite phone from a secure safe in his office.
He then heads out the door with Rolf and says, "Here, you'll be needing this, Rolf. Just hand it over to our friends when I tell you to. Don't worry, you have nothing to fear. Their bite isn't as bad as their bark." He laughs as Rolf chuckles and takes the satellite phone.
Rolf clears his throat and slightly lowers his head.
Arman takes a while but eventually understands what Rolf's asking for, "Ah! I almost forgot. How...inconsiderate of me." Arman straightens his posture and unbuttons his shirt sleeve.
He rolls it up as his claws extend. He slices open his wrist. His Vitae flows freely. He smiles at his Ghoul and says, "Go ahead. You've earned it."
Rolf immediately dips his head down, takes Arman's arm, and sucks the blood out. Arman maintains his composure as he feels his blood being siphoned.
Arman grits his teeth, "Ah, there's...nothing quite like this, is there?"
Rolf, still slurping, nods in absolute agreement.
Arman smiles, "You are a loyal and faithful Ghoul. You deserve only the best, yes?"
Rolf nods, his mouth still full. He gulps.
The pair stand like that for a moment. Rolf eventually pulls back. Some blood drips down his goatee.
Arman looks down at his wrist and proceeds to lick it shut, "There. How's that, Rolf?"
Rolf excitedly replies, "It is...very energizing. Thank you, master." The Ghoul is panting, his muscles are visibly taut.
The bond between Ghoul and Domitor is quite powerful, no doubt about it.
Arman puts his arm down, "You're very welcome, Rolf. Now, wait for a while."
Rolf nods as he goes off and sits on a chair, "I shall wait patiently."
Arman takes a seat on his sofa and starts browsing through his phone, "I am actually a bit curious about this Maya woman." He taps his finger and waits.
He notices that Rolf has gone to his quarters, so he continues talking to himself, "Let's see whether this second-rate lifestyle writer is really Tremere material or not." He keeps scrolling through his phone.
"Ginny seemed rather keen on killing her. Ah, what does one expect from the Lasombra, really?"
He taps on the phone and starts reading. He skims through the text, occasionally nodding and humming, "Hmm. Oh my."
He's watching the video of Maya and Annette arguing.
The video that has since gone viral and put this sleepy, almost forgotten town on the map. He watches the video in its entirety, many times over.
He sighs, "My, my, my. This is quite the conundrum, isn't it?" He presses the lock button on his phone and gets up.
Arman paces around his Haven, deep in thought. This silent contemplation goes on for a while. Eventually, he looks at his watch, "Ah, yes. It's almost time."
He takes a deep breath and straightens his tie. He puts his jacket back on, makes sure that his sleeves are buttoned, and looks at his reflection.
He calls for Rolf, who is just done moving the Matisse painting into the office.
"Yes, master?"
"Mrs. Maybelline should be here soon. I assume we have some refreshments for her?"
"Ja," Rolf says with a look of uncertainty on his face.
"Ah, don't worry. She likely won't have any allergies. Just tea and biscuits, Rolf."
"Tea and biscuits?"
"That's right."
"Very well, master. I shall prepare them. Tea...with milk or no? Rolf always take with milk."
"Uh, put the milk in a small jug."
Rolf exits the living room and heads towards the kitchen.
The minutes slowly tick by and Arman starts tapping his feet and hands impatiently. Eventually, a car can be heard parking outside.
A woman in her 60s steps out of the driver's seat and walks up to the door. She is slender, dressed in a tight black dress, heels, and a long coat.
She is flanked by 2 men in dark glasses and sharp suits. Her British accent is posh and crisp, "Good evening, Mr. Arman. We have a lot to discuss, yes?"
She steps into the doorway. Her 2 bodyguards follow close. They then take up positions at the corners of the door.
She elegantly sits down on the sofa across from Arman, crosses her legs, and places her purse beside her, "What a lovely house you have, Mr. Arman. You really must give me the number of your decorator."
Arman sighs and chuckles, "Unfortunately, he committed suicide a few months ago. Swedish man. Such a shame."
She pouts, "What a pity."
Her British accent is strong, her diction very proper. She's the kind of person you'd see in a period piece about the royal family.
And royalty she is. Baroness Maybelline Pentham, the Director Of Operations at Gen 4 Security, is sitting in front of Arman.
He asks, "Would you like something to drink, Mrs. Pentham? Perhaps some tea?" He grins.
She smiles, "Oh, a cup of tea would be splendid, dear. With milk, of course."
Arman snaps his fingers and tells Rolf to bring in the tea. Rolf brings in a silver platter with tea, a teapot, a jug of milk, biscuits, and a single cup. He places it on the table.
Baroness Pentham proceeds to pick up the teapot.
She looks at Rolf from top to bottom and nods in approval. She asks, "With such a large man in your employ, I don't see why you'd be in need of extra security?"
Arman laughs, "I'm flattered, Baroness Pentham, as is Rolf, I'm sure."
He smirks and continues, "But I expected that Gen 4 Security was the type of organization that didn't ask such...questions. Isn't that right?" He smiles, but there's no mirth in his voice.
The Baroness warmly smiles and maintains her composure, "Oh, yes, yes, of course. I do apologize, Mr. Rajakrishnan. We value the privacy...and eccentricities of our clientele."
Arman twitches a bit when he hears his last name, he smiles and says, "Oh, please. Call me Arman. All my friends do." He chuckles, she nods.
She leans forward to pour some tea into a cup. Baroness Pentham narrows her eyes as she notices there's only one cup on the silver platter.
She asks, "Do you not drink tea, Mr. Arman?"
Arman replies, "No, I'm on a diet of sorts, Baroness."
"Oh, please, call me Maybelline." She picks up the teacup and saucer and gently sips from the cup. She delicately puts the saucer back on the table and licks her lips.
She remarks, "Oh, this is such a delightful cup of tea."
"It's all the way from India. I usually keep it for...esteemed guests such as yourself. Maybelline." He bows his head slightly.
She raises her cup and says, "Very good."
Arman raises his hands and smiles, "Indeed."
He then says to Rolf, "Rolf, please make yourself scarce. I have important business to discuss with Maybelline over here."
Maybelline nods her head and gestures to her 2 bodyguards to leave. She sips from her cup and looks around the room.
She says, "It really is quite a lovely home, Arman."
She glances at the paintings on the wall, "Your taste in art is exquisite. Is that a...Matisse." Her jaw almost drops.
She then turns to Arman and asks, "This is...an original, is it not?"
Arman chuckles, "Oh, I believe it is. I recently purchased it from a dear friend of mine."
She cocks her eyebrow, "How much did you pay for such a fine piece, if you don't mind me asking."
"Oh, I believe it was...let's see, around 80,000 US dollars, if I remember correctly." He smiles, but it's a bit forced.
Maybelline lightly gasps, "Eighty thousand?! Hmph. Chump change, lad. Back in England, something like this would go for half a million pounds at least." She snorts and finishes her tea.
Arman's grin falters, "Oh. Yes, of course. Regardless, I thought it was a very reasonable price."
He clears his throat and continues, "So, shall we talk business, Maybelline? I'm sure you didn't come all this way to talk about fine art."
She nods, "Of course, Mr. Arman."
She adjusts her dress and looks him in the eye, "I understand you had some very...peculiar requests, Arman."
He sits back a bit, "Yes. Is that going to be a problem? I was assured by others that Gen 4 Security was fully prepared to cater to a wide range of...clientele. Was that an incorrect assumption to make?" He crosses his legs and taps his foot.
She sighs and says, "Well, no. It's just that the ammunition you requested is a bit harder to come by. I didn't even know they manufactured such things!"
"Yes, I know. I know. But, as you can see, I'm willing to pay top-dollar for such...specialized items and the personnel that come along with them." He reaches into his jacket and takes out his phone.
"Of course, of course. You're hardly our first client with such an...unusual request. And you're certainly not the most unusual. No, we can certainly help you. But, the question is: how much are you willing to pay?" She raises an eyebrow.
Arman taps his phone a few times and shows her the screen. The display reads: "$2,500,000"
Arman says, "2.5 million US dollars, from my offshore bank account in the Cayman Islands. That's an initial deposit. You will receive the other 2.5 million once the contract has been completed."
She nods, "Quite a pretty penny, yes?"
"Money is no object. I am a man of great means, Maybelline. I have no trouble affording your...services. The question is, can you provide them?" He leans forward and looks into her eyes as he asks this question.
"Oh, of course. Of course. I do not have any doubts about the...efficiency of our operatives. If they were to fail, I can personally assure you that the entire company would be held responsible." She maintains eye contact with him, her gaze never wavering.
"Excellent. And how...discreet are these operatives of yours?"
"They are all under a strict NDA. Violation of which will lead to...termination."
The way she says "termination" leaves little room to imagine what it could possibly mean.
Arman chuckles, "Oh, yes. I like the sound of that. You know, Maybelline, we could work well together, you and I. I believe this could very well be the beginning of a long-lasting business relationship."
"Oh, I do hope so, Arman. I do hope so. The company is always looking for new and...unique opportunities. And I can see that you are quite an interesting fellow, to say the least."
"Indeed. I believe you'll find my business acumen to be rather unique."
"I'm sure it is, and I'm certain that people in your social circle would benefit from the services that Gen 4 can provide. Wouldn't you agree?"
Arman hesitates and shuffles for a bit, "Maybe, maybe not."
"Hmph. Very well, Mr. Arman. Please make sure that the 2.5 million is deposited into our accounts by the end of the night. I shall have my assistant send you the details."
"Consider it done. And when should I expect my...order to arrive?"
"As soon as the funds are transferred, I shall have them flown in. It shouldn't take more than 2 business days."
"2 days? Hmmmm. Excellent." He gently claps his hands and says, "We have a deal, Maybelline."
She raises her hand, "I just want to be certain. You have chosen our...Golden VIP Package, yes? Complete with our finest operatives, and a 24-hour emergency hotline, should you ever have any issues. I trust this is satisfactory?"
Arman nods, "It is. And the name of my detail?"
"Our operatives are trained to follow orders. They are not to ask questions. You may refer to them as your own private security force, or simply...bodyguards, if you so wish."
"Oh, that sounds perfect. This is exactly what I need."
"Yes. I trust that our operatives can conduct themselves with the utmost professionalism."
Arman says, "I sincerely hope they're as discreet as you say they are. I will require them for some...sensitive tasks in the next couple of nights."
"I understand completely, Mr. Arman. And, I can personally assure you, that you are in the most capable hands- ex-military, former intelligence, mercenaries, the best of the best. The pinnacle of private security services."
"Excellent, excellent." He claps his hands again and gets up from the sofa.
Maybelline stands up as well, elegantly and with a refined posture, "It has been a pleasure doing business with you, Arman. I do look forward to working with you again in the future. Please, do not hesitate to refer us to your friends or any in need of our services."
"Yes, likewise." He nods and extends his hand. She takes it and they shake hands. As they're shaking hands, she slightly winces at how cold Arman's hand is.
She doesn't comment on this but says, "The relevant details on your order will be sent via email and text message. Have a good evening, Arman."
"Same to you, Maybelline."
She gathers her purse and walks towards the door, escorted by her 2 bodyguards.
Rolf is standing there, hands clasped, watching everything unfold.
He nods at Arman and the Baroness. She smiles at him and says, "I'm afraid we haven't been properly introduced, my good man. I'm Maybelline."
"Rolf."
"Ah. German. Such a strong accent."
Rolf lightly smiles and opens the door for her, "Goodbye."
"Ta-ta, Rolf. I shall see you soon, Arman."
"I look forward to it, Maybelline." He smiles as he waves her goodbye.
One bodyguard holds open the car door as she gets in her fancy jet-black Tesla. The other bodyguard follows suit and gets in the back seat.
Rolf closes the door. Arman rubs his hands together and says, "Oh, yes! Everything is going according to plan. Isn't that right, Rolf?"
"Hmmm." Rolf looks a bit disappointed.
Arman notices this and places his hand on Rolf's shoulder, "Oh, no, no, no, Rolf. I'm NOT replacing you. No, this...is just extra firepower for when we have to deal with our new out-of-town friends."
Arman sniffs and continues, "Once they've finished what they came here to do, that is."
"Oh. Contingency plan, yes? Master is very smart. But, risky, no?"
"Yes, yes, I know of the risks involved, but without risks, there can be no rewards. Now, don't worry, Rolf. Come, it's time you prepared yourself to go meet our...friends at the abandoned construction site."
"Ja. Of course."
Arman checks his watch, "Ah, I remember that place. Anyways, you should be arriving there in about 30 to 45 minutes. Plenty of time. Now, remember, you are to give them the phone."
Rolf nods.
Arman continues, "Avoid making small talk with these...people if possible. I don't want you to accidentally disclose anything sensitive. These are the types of people that tend to kill and ask questions later, yes?"
"Ja. Rolf can be discreet."
"I'm counting on it. Don't disappoint me, Rolf."
As Rolf walks away, Arman speaks up, "Oh, and Rolf, you'll want to wear something a bit more...formal for the meeting at the auditorium later."
"Ja."
"Now, please get ready. I will be in my room if you need me."
"Understood."
Rolf goes to his quarters and puts on a dapper-looking black suit with a dark-blue tie. He looks himself over in the mirror, making sure everything is in order.
Arman had that suit made for him while the 2 were in Italy. Rolf then grabs his circular sunglasses and puts them on the top of his head.
The Ghoul runs a brush through his long, flowing hair. He refuses to tie it up, instead letting it flow down to his broad shoulders. He takes a few deep breaths, steadying himself.
After a moment, he picks up the satellite phone and leaves Arman's Haven.
He hops in the car, tunes the radio to some heavy metal, and drives off.
It's a relatively calm night outside. A few black SUVs can be seen zooming past. As Rolf is driving, he sees a couple of police cars parked on the side of the road, their lights flashing.
There's also a strange-looking man in a faded blue FBI jacket speaking with the officers.
Rolf doesn't want to get in trouble, so he lets his foot off the pedal and slowly drives by so as not to rouse suspicion. The strange man seems to be staring intently at him. He can't quite tell, but it seems as though he's glaring directly at him.
He's of medium-build, a bit thin, very pale looking, has short hair, and is wearing a black button-down shirt. His face is covered by the shadow of his FBI cap, and his hands are tucked into the pockets of his jacket. He doesn't look too threatening, but one can't be too careful.
Rolf shrugs and drives on. The last thing he needs is to get tangled with the FBI.
Almost an hour passes, and the Ghoul finally arrives at his destination. It's a secluded construction site. There's an old, rusty bulldozer, a creaky crane, a pile of rubble, and a dumpster filled with debris and other rubbish.
There are also a few portable generators that have long since run out of fuel, some torn cables, and various tools and equipment left to rust. The air is stale and musty, the atmosphere thick with dust.
Everything is coated with a thin layer of grime. The place has been abandoned for years. Nobody even wants to be anywhere near here.
What was once a promising resort project, is now nothing but an ephemeral reminder of the town's once bright future. All the money spent, and all the hopes dashed. Such a waste.
Not even half the "resort" is done. The developers are said to have ran away with the money. No one knows where they are, or if they're still alive. This was years ago. Ever since then, the place has stood empty and unused.
Now, it's mostly occupied by Kindred who are just "passing through" or mortals who have nowhere else to go.
There's an old diner nearby, it's neon lettering still working (surprisingly!). Rolf decides to pull in there to make his final preparations for the meeting. He parks his car next to a rundown red Chevrolet. The car's paint has been badly chipped from years of neglect and weather.
The same couldn't be said for the diner's exterior, which is a bit better maintained, probably because it gets more visitors. As Rolf gets out of the car, an old beige jalopy can be seen zooming towards the construction site.
There is no other sound except for the engine's awkward rumble and sputtering, as though someone has jerry-rigged the muffler with a piece of metal pipe.
It's clearly not been tuned recently. A cloud of smoke bellows out as the car skids to a halt.
Daniel, the adopted son of Gus and Sheila, steps out of the car. He slicks his hair back and kicks the tire. He then takes out his cell phone and dials a number.
As Daniel leans against the jalopy and waits for the person on the other line to pick up, Rolf hears the sat-phone ring. He grunts as his stubby fingers nearly miss the green "accept" button.
He puts it to his ear, "Yes?"
Daniel paces around and hesitates, "Uh...hi? We're here. Sorry we were late, we were held up with something." Daniel is sweating. He's never been quite good with people, and he doesn't know much about the person he and the others are to meet.
As Rolf prepares to speak, a jeep pulls up beside the jalopy, and out steps a man who's a as big and heavy as the Ghoul. This man is built like a professional linebacker. He's wearing a white shirt and blue jeans.
Daniel's siblings step out of the jalopy. Gavin shakes some loose change from the jalopy's glovebox as Erika searches the seats for her lost phone. It's probably wedged between. Gavin closes the glovebox and then slams the door.
Daniel can be heard, saying, "Hey! Watch it! It's...it's delicate."
6 people step out from the jeep. There's Daniel's parents- Gus and Sheila. Torvald, Emi, Anja, and the big and heavy Gunnar. They all climb out of the jeep and take a good look around the place.
Rolf breathes in and out. He then says, "I see you. I will be there shortly."
The Ghoul makes sure that his car is unobstructed, should he need to make a quick getaway.
He walks to the center of the abandoned construction site, a bit steeped in his own thoughts. The area is poorly lit, save for the full moon in the sky, the dim streetlight in the parking lot, and some flickering fluorescents.
The place looks...dead.
Rolf dials Arman's number into the phone and holds it against his ear. Arman picks up after a couple of rings and says, "Yes?" Rolf explains the situation and tells him that his contacts have arrived.
Arman replies, "Splendid! Yes, Rolf. Now, ask them who their...leader is."
Rolf relays the question to Daniel, "Which one of you is...leader?"
Torvald looks around and everyone either nods at him or beckons him to approach the Ghoul. Rolf nods and puts the phone against his ear, "I see him. Should I hand over phone?" Rolf looks around to make sure that no one has followed him here.
The group is a bit spread out. Anja narrows her eyes and adjusts her fanny pack as she keenly watches the Ghoul's every move. Gavin's hands are in his pockets and he's rocking on the balls of his feet as he scans the construction site.
Emi looks tense.
Gus and Sheila stand a bit further back, with Gus rubbing his hand against her arm in reassurance. Erika looks at Daniel, concerned.
Rolf glances around. No one has followed him here, so he starts walking towards the group.
He hands the sat-phone to Torvald and says, "My...boss wishes to speak with you."
"Of course," Torvald says as he takes the phone from Rolf.
Rolf says, "I shall wait here." The Ghoul then crosses his arms and assumes an at-ease stance.
Torvald starts the conversation, "With whom am I speaking?"
Arman replies, "That is irrelevant. However, I would like to know who YOU are."
"Hmph. Fine. Name's Torvald and I'm here with...um, 3 of my friends and 5 others." Torvald looks over at his friends and nods.
Arman continues, "Hmph. So, 9 in total. Very well. I've heard stories and rumors about...your kind."
Torvald chuckles, "Good ones, I hope?"
"Mostly. The point is that I have some problems that need...taking care of. Our common enemy, as it were." There's a hint of disgust in Arman's voice. He quickly recovers his composure, however.
Torvald says, "Hmmm, yes. Interesting. Why can't you take care of this yourself, Mr.--"
Arman rudely interjects, "I am a very busy man and I also have a certain reputation to maintain in a town like this." He grunts as he paces around.
Torvald, sensing that he hit a nerve, tries to smooth things over, "Very well. My apologies, sir."
"Good. So, back to our discussion. I know the location of some of these undesirable...creatures. I can't give you everything at the moment as I need to be absolutely sure."
Torvald nods and gets a bit irritated, "OK, sure."
Gunnar cracks his knuckles and starts walking towards Torvald and Rolf. Daniel is busy admiring his new car, squatting to see it from a different angle.
Gavin notices this and says, "Yo! Be careful, you'll fall on your ass!" Daniel dismissively waves at Gavin as he continues to squat and stare at the jalopy.
Arman continues the conversation, "I will have my...assistant retrieve a certain file. There's a small garage closer to the town that is frequented by many of...those things that you are looking for. Everyone in there is one of them."
Torvald says, "Oh, OK. How can you be certain that they are what you claim they are? I was told that there are several, scattered all over this town." He looks at the people surrounding him and notices that they're looking a bit impatient.
Arman clears his throat, "And who told you such a thing?"
"We've been talking to some of the locals and they had some very...interesting things to say." Torvald sighs as he continues to speak to Arman. He glances around and sees Daniel doing some silly poses next to his new car. Erika takes a few pictures of this.
Arman holds back from swearing, "Grrr. Please, avoid such things in the future. These 'locals' you speak of are mostly...village idiots, for lack of a better term."
Torvald thinks to himself as he recalls the chat he and his friends had with that group of kids, "Idiots?! They were children...sure, they might have embellished certain things, but still."
Arman, who had been rambling about how incompetent many of the town's locals are, finally pauses for dramatic effect.
Torvald seizes the opportunity and speaks, "Look. You were right in that we need more info on the problem. We won't speak to any more...locals again."
Arman says, "You better not, I don't want this getting out of hand. I risk too much just by speaking with you."
Torvald sighs, "OK, but we're still waiting for the file. I can't have you sending us out there blind."
"Very well, you should have the file shortly. Please hand the phone back to my...assistant, Torvald."
Torvald shrugs and hands the phone over to Rolf. The Ghoul grabs it, puts it back against his ear, "Ja. OK." Rolf paces around as Arman starts to dictate instructions to him.
Arman says, "Be careful, Rolf. Just retrieve the file from the car, give it to them, and walk away. I don't want them...sniffing you out or following you back here. Are we clear?"
"Ja."
Arman then warns, "Do not underestimate them."
"Yes...sir," Rolf says as he walks back to the car to retrieve the file from the glove box. It's an old blue file folder that smells of expensive Davidoff cologne for some reason. Perhaps some cologne spilled over the file?
Arman does love his cologne, after all.
Arman says, "Be discreet, Rolf. Don't make eye contact and do NOT make small talk with anyone there."
Rolf lightly nods, "Ja."
The Ghoul walks back to where the group is. He hands the file to Torvald, "Here."
Gunnar pulls out his phone and turns on its flashlight as Torvald opens the file folder and starts to go over its contents. Rolf stands there, with the sat-phone in hand. He holds it out to Torvald.
Torvald raises his hand to stop the Ghoul as he's too busy going over the file. It contains information about a small garage along with surveillance camera pictures of those who frequent the establishment.
The face of a short, hairy man in his mid-30s is circled in red. The other faces in the file are not circled and seem to have some notes scribbled onto them, but most of it is illegible.
Torvald sighs as he grabs the sat-phone from Rolf, "What is this, exactly? What do you expect us to do with this?"
Arman sighs as he taps his fingers against his desk, "What your...kind is expected to do, of course. Consider this...an appetizer. If you're willing to get rid of them, I'll provide you with all the resources you need, including safe transport and lodging, to wherever you choose."
Torvald lowers his eyebrows a bit, "Hmph. A...tempting offer, but we're quite comfortable with our current living arrangements. Besides, we don't intend to stay here too long." He looks at the file again and then notices something.
The hairs on the back of his neck stand up. He shivers as he feels a chill run down his spine.
The air is suddenly very cold. Torvald quickly shakes his head from side to side and gathers his composure.
Arman's tone is getting almost...desperate, annoyed. He says, "As you wish. But, please, be reasonable. I am offering you everything you could possibly want, in exchange for a simple...favor." He sighs as he realizes that these people aren't as reasonable as he was hoping they'd be.
Arman continues, "Of course, what you hold in your hands is merely the tip of the iceberg. Succeed and there will be plenty more where that came from. This is a limited time offer, I suggest you take it, before someone else more capable comes along." Arman's voice starts to crack a bit. He clears his throat.
Rolf shuffles about.
Torvald is intrigued, "More where this came from, eh? So there are other tainted leeches that you know of?"
"Yes. Many, in this town alone. And I just happen to know where they...huddle together, like the filthy, disgusting creatures that they are."
He pauses for a bit. "The point is, I can provide you with all the information you need, should you agree to my terms."
Torvald looks over to his friends and replies, "What exactly are these terms of yours, sir? And why are you doing this? I know you said that you need us to deal with your problem, but...what's in it for you?" He looks at the file again and notices that there's something scribbled on the back of it.
Arman sternly responds, "What's 'in it' for me is none of your concern. You don't need to know everything, but let's just say that I have a...vested interest in seeing these particular creatures dealt with. As far as the terms are concerned, all I need is for you to take care of those in that file."
Arman clears his throat and goes on, "Once you're done, I'll have a much...larger task for you people."
He smiles, "From there, we'll discuss further terms and whatnot."
Torvald scratches his face, "Hmmm. Sounds like a deal, I suppose. We'll take care of...your problems. But, as I said earlier, we're not staying in this town long and we'll probably need to leave after this." He looks around and sees the others nod at him.
"I can't stop you from leaving, Torvald. Just make sure that your time spent here is...worthwhile. In the meantime, look over the file and think things over. You and your friends should feel free to discuss it amongst yourselves."
Torvald taps his foot on the ground and swallows hard, "And you're CERTAIN that everyone in this garage is one of them?"
"I'm positive. You may...attack them in the night, if you wish. Or, you can just sit around and wait until they run off somewhere else."
"Your choice," Arman mockingly says. Torvald frowns and looks at the file again. There's a picture of a woman. It looks like a mugshot, taken in some old jail. He reads the notes: "Henrietta, 36 yrs old, Female. DOB: 1956." He snorts a bit.
"This should be easy," he thinks to himself.
Torvald nods and replies, "Thank you, sir. My friends and I have much to discuss."
"Yes, I'm sure you do. Please hand the phone back to my assistant. Thank you."
Torvald smiles and says, "H--Have a goodnight, sir."
Arman sighs, "Yes, yes, you too."
Torvald hands the sat-phone back to Rolf and nods, "Here you go."
"Ja." Rolf takes the phone and puts it against his ear, "Ja? OK. I leave now."
Rolf presses the end call button and prepares to walk away. He stops and looks back at Torvald, "Do not...disappoint my boss. He does not like being disappointed." The Ghoul stares at Torvald for a few seconds.
Torvald chuckles, "I wouldn't dream of doing such a thing."
Gunnar squints and comes closer to Rolf, "Hey! I think I've seen you some place before!"
Rolf takes a few steps back and shakes his head, "Uh...no?"
Gunnar places his hands on his hips and looks Rolf up and down, "Yeah...I KNOW I've seen you before!" His eyes narrow as he glares at the Ghoul.
Daniel, who has been distracted this whole time, is now walking back towards the group.
Gunnar bites his lip as he mutters to himself, "Wait! YES! That's it!"
Gunnar claps his hands, "Club Oase in Berlin!"
Rolf gasps and takes a step back, "Um..."
Gunnar lets out a hearty laugh, "I KNEW I recognized you. Hey, no worries, I used to work there too. Earning some extra money. Ha!" He wags his finger at the Ghoul.
"It was long time ago. I don't work there anymore." Rolf is clearly shaken. He backs away from the big guy and nearly trips on a loose cable. He then stumbles a bit as he tries to regain his balance.
Gunnar runs over to pick Rolf up. The 2 exchange a few words in German, but the rest of the group can't quite understand what's being said. Torvald shrugs and walks over to the jeep. Daniel follows him.
Erika, Gus, Gavin, and Sheila are still a bit confused by what's going on.
Anja intently watches the conversation between Rolf and Gunnar. Emi stands next to her, with her arms crossed. Anja narrows her eyes and says, "I can sense your excitement, cub."
Emi replies, "Huh? Well, I mean--"
"I was once like you. Young and full of vigor. You're eager to hunt, yes? I can sense it. Eager is good." Anja smirks as she pats Emi on the back. The girl nods and smiles.
Gunnar gives Rolf a friendly smack on the back, shakes his hand, smiles, and walks away. Rolf, still a bit stunned, nods at Gunnar. He then turns around and slowly walks back to his car.
As he leaves, he nods towards the others and says, "Good night."
Daniel smiles and waves goodbye.
Gunnar chuckles to himself as he returns to the rest of the group, "Raphael. That was his name. Heh. Although..." his voice trails off as he suddenly recalls something.
He shakes his head from side to side as he thinks to himself, "No, no, no, that...couldn't have been him. That was years ago! Agh! Never mind. I need a drink!" He frowns and looks back at the group.
Daniel is standing next to the jalopy, trying to start it up. He has his foot on the brake pedal and is revving the engine. The car won't start. It just sputters and makes an awful grinding noise.
"Aw, c'mon, not now, please, please! I just got this! C'mon!" He turns the key in the ignition again. The car coughs and spits out some smoke from its exhaust.
Gavin rolls his eyes, "Yo, Daniel! Maybe me and Erika should give it a little push? Might be a good idea if you take it somewhere more open and give it a few minutes." He winks at Erika who is busy taking pictures.
She smiles at him and comes over.
Erika rubs her hands as she and her brother push the beige jalopy onto the dirt road. Daniel, with his foot still on the brake, turns the key. The car roars to life. He grins and shouts, "YES! Ah, sweet victory! Thanks!"
Gavin and his sister jump into the back seat and high-five each other. They smile and start to laugh. Anja shakes her head and groans at their youthful enthusiasm. Torvald looks over at them and smiles.
Sheila smiles too, but then her face turns stern as she yells at Daniel, "Be careful, honey!"
Gus says, "Aw, don't worry, Sheila, they'll be fine."
"I know, it's just that--" She pauses.
Gavin sticks his head out of the car and says, "C'mon, we don't have all night!" He pulls his head back in as Daniel drives off. Anja, Emi, Gunnar, Torvald, Gus, and Sheila get back into the jeep and follow them.
Rolf gets in the car, starts it up, puts on his sunglasses and prepares to leave. He's a bit lost in his thoughts as he looks over at the group, "Hmmm..."
He turns the music on and drives off.
"So, what do you think?" Emi asks.
Torvald shrugs, "We'll have to make due with what we have."
Gunnar cracks his knuckles, "I was expecting more."
Anja doesn't make eye contact, "It's a good start to cleanse this town of its corruption."
"Hmph. Agreed. We'll just have to be creative." Torvald looks over at Sheila, "What are your thoughts, Mrs. Sheila?"
Sheila, a bit distracted, replies, "Oh, uh...I just want all of this to be over with."
"Understandable." Torvald turns his head around and asks Emi, "And you, Emi, any thoughts?"
Emi, with a certain exciting glint in her eye, smiles, "I'm ready for anything!"
Gunnar grins and smacks the dashboard, "YES! That is the spirit, cub!"
Gus smiles at Emi and nods, "That enthusiasm is certainly...something."
Emi smiles, "I...I want to take the lead on this one, please, Torvald? Please?"
"Hmmm. Maybe. We'll see."
Anja interjects, "If she believes she is ready, then I say we give her a chance to prove herself. Gunnar, what do you say?" Anja looks at Emi and flashes a quick smile.
Gunnar snorts, "Hmmph. Yes, it's an easy task. The location is relatively secluded. No problem!"
Torvald sighs, "Maybe..."
The rest of their journey is spent deciding who should lead the attack on the garage and...destroy everyone therein.
It's finally happening.
Rolf, meanwhile, drives back the same way he came, only this time, he has a bunch of salty fries in his mouth. He puts the box on the seat next to him.
He then presses the gas pedal and speeds up. He doesn't want to keep his boss waiting.
He awkwardly sings whatever song is on, his mouth full of french fries.
While driving back, Rolf notices a single police car parked parked on the side of the road. All the others seemed to have driven away. He slows down as he notices a cop lying face down on the ground.
Rolf gulps, "What the...?!" He drives past the police car and continues to eat his fries.
He intentionally slows down and notices that the cop is dead. There's a nasty dent on the side of the cop car and there's traces of blood and shards of glass on the ground.
Rolf gasps and almost chokes on his fries, "Verdammt (DE: Goddammit)." The Ghoul drives off and tries his best not to draw attention to himself.
He doesn't want to get involved, but he decides to tell his master about this incident.
As he speeds up, he's not quite sure what he should do. Should he have stopped to check on the cop? Or should he just keep driving and forget about this?
Rolf tunes the knob to its loudest setting and shoves even more fries into his mouth. He bops his head up and down to the beat of the loud music.
He starts to sing even louder, trying to drown out his concerns.
Some time passes, and he finally arrives back at Arman's Haven, ready to take his master to the abandoned auditorium where the Kindred (mainly chosen and/or self-proclaimed Clan representatives) of Plaintry have their meetings.
Rolf parks the car and waits for Arman, who is standing outside, smiling as he takes in the cool night air. Arman waves at Rolf and walks over to the car.
The Ventrue says, "Oh, god no, we're not going in this. I can't be seen arriving in such a...disgraceful car."
He looks at the interior, shakes his head, and wrinkles his nose in disgust, "There's...there's no way. Absolutely no way."
Arman shakes his head again, "No, no, no. Bring the Škoda, we'll take that."
He looks at Rolf's expression, "Time's wasting. Let's go." He impatiently waves his hand at Rolf and turns around to get something out of his pocket.
Rolf eventually brings the aforementioned car and Arman steps inside.
Arman closes the door and leans back against the seat. He takes a deep breath, smiles, and says, "This is much better. So, how was the meeting?"
"Went well."
Arman gently claps, "Excellent, excellent. Things are going according to plan. So far."
Rolf asks, "Did master...feed for tonight?"
Arman grins, "Oh yes, I did. Thank you for asking, Rolf. Now, take us to the auditorium. Let's see what surprises Prince Lucas has in store for us this night." He smiles and starts to scroll through his phone.
"Ja."
The rest of the drive is spent in silence as Arman alternates between looking at his phone or outside the window, watching the town fly by.
A few hours prior...
The sun has long since set. The surroundings are quiet, save for the occasional bird chirping. There's also the odd police siren in the distance.
Maya's eyes flutter open. She rolls over and sees that Lucile is already awake. She's sitting up, leaning against the bed, with her legs crossed. She's staring at the ceiling.
Maya rubs her eyes and yawns. She sits up and stretches.
"Sleep well, sweetie?" Lucile asks as she looks at Maya. She turns her head and smiles. Her smile is genuine. She returns the smile and nods. She yawns again.
Lucile gets up and walks over to the closet, "Ready for tonight?"
Maya stretches her arms and says, "Yeah. I guess so." She pauses for a bit, "What is our plan for to--"
Before Maya finishes, Lucile's phone rings. The ringtone is some or the other pop song. A bit loud. Lucile picks up the phone and answers it. She looks at the caller ID, which reads "Eleanor".
She puts it against her ear. "Yes?" she says, a bit excited.
She paces around the room as Eleanor speaks.
"OK, wow. Yep, I'll get her all ready for tonight. Right, see ya!"
Maya narrows her eyes, "Um...who was that?"
Lucile smirks, "Eleanor. She wants to present you before the Prince tonight. Told me to pick out something 'formal' and 'tasteful' for you, heh." She pats Maya on the shoulder, "You're gonna love it."
She winks at Maya and goes to the closet.
Maya is a bit confused, "Oh, wow. I'm actually kinda excited to meet all the other Kindred."
Lucile corrects her, "Well, not ALL of them, sweetie. Just the uh...important ones."
Maya scratches the back of her neck and nervously asks, "So, um, what exactly am I supposed to do?"
Lucile grabs a few things from the closet and tosses them onto the bed, "Nothing too formal, I guess. Just be on your best behavior, mind your manners, and speak only when spoken to. At least that's what I remember Eleanor telling me all those years ago."
Maya smiles, "Easy enough, huh?"
"Yep. Now, come here, let's pick out something...sexy for you to wear tonight." She holds up a dress and turns it around. It's a dark blue cocktail dress with a white collar and cuffs. It's made of silk.
Maya grimaces, "Eh...nope? A--Anything else?"
Lucile laughs, "Of course, of course. How about this?" She holds up a red evening gown with a black lace overlay. The skirt is made of tulle and has a slit up to the thigh.
Maya blinks and smiles, "Wow! Amazing, sure, but, um...it looks kinda tight, doesn't it?"
Lucile shrugs, "Ah, maybe."
Lucile buries her head in her closet and pulls out a few more dresses, "What about this one? And this one? And this one? And this one?" She holds up a few more dresses.
Maya looks at them and says, "Um, they're all nice, but..."
Lucile bites her lip for a moment, "I think I might have something upstairs. Wait here, OK?"
Maya chuckles, "Not like I have anywhere to go." She lays down on the bed and waits for Lucile to return.
Lucile runs up the stairs and heads to another room. She opens the door and looks around. She spots the clothes she had in mind.
Initially, she has trouble looking for them amongst the pile of books and other random junk that's been tossed in there.
So, she puts on her glasses- it's a simple-looking pair of blueish frames. She's not used to wearing them, but she needs it to read stuff up-close (most of the time, anyway).
She looks around the room and sees the clothes she had in mind. She grabs a few items and takes them back downstairs.
Maya has her eyes closed as she's singing to herself. Lucile walks in and throws the pile of clothes onto the bed.
Maya opens her eyes and sees the clothes, "Oh, wow! Are these for me?"
Lucile smiles, "Yep. They're all yours."
Maya looks at the glasses on Lucile's face, "Oh, um, you wear glasses??"
Lucile touches the frames, "Yeah, sometimes. Not usually, though. I need it for reading and stuff." She looks at Maya and asks, "Why? What's wrong?"
Maya purses her lips and gives Lucile a coy smile, "You look like a really hot librarian."
Lucile blushes, "Oh, whoa, thanks, but I'm not a librarian. I mean, I was for a while, but I'm not anymore." She laughs.
Maya giggles, "Heh, sorry, I didn't mean to make fun of you."
Lucile waves her hand, "No, no, it's fine. I don't mind. Anyways, you got a thing for librarians or something?"
Maya's grin is lopsided, "It's a, uh...fantasy of mine."
Lucile raises an eyebrow, "We've got time."
Maya blushes and looks away, "Well, um...I guess it's kinda embarrassing, but...yeah."
Lucile laughs, "Oh, don't worry, it's nothing to be ashamed of." She sits down on the bed and says, "So, tell me more."
Maya nervously plays with her hair, "Well, I guess I've always wanted to be with a librarian. I mean, I've got this whole crazy scenario in my head where I walk into a library and start talking to this librarian and we hit it off and then, um, well, you know."
Lucile nods, "Mmm, I see. That's...a pretty standard fantasy, I think."
Maya's glances away, "Y--You don't think I'm some kinda weirdo or anything?"
Lucile shakes her head, "No, no, not at all. I love you, Maya. I'd never judge you for something like that." She pats Maya on the shoulder.
Maya smiles, "Thanks, Lucile."
Lucile looks at the clock and says, "Well, we should probably get ready. So, I hope you like this."
Maya turns over to see the pile of clothes Lucile threw onto the bed. She looks at the clothes and smiles, "Wow, this...is AMAZING!"
Lucile smiles and breathes a sigh of relief, "Good. I didn't wanna go running back upstairs to rummage through my other closet."
Maya looks through the clothes some more.
Lucile sits on the bed and watches her. She says, "I think you're gonna knock 'em dead, sweetie. No pun intended, haha!"
The clothes consist of a pair of dark blue trousers, a blazer, and an off-white shirt.
Maya nods in approval and asks, "Looks like some kinda...pilot uniform or something, huh?"
Lucile smiles, "Yeah, kinda. But, it's more formal than that. You'll see."
Maya asks, "Shouldn't we shower first, or do you wanna go first, I mean--"
Lucile laughs and rubs Maya's back, "We'll go together. It...saves water, right?"
Maya smiles, "Sure, if you say so."
Lucile gets up and takes Maya by the hand, "C'mon, let's get ready."
The 2 head to the bathroom and take a shower together.
They're both in the shower, with Maya standing under the water and Lucile washing her body.
Maya says, "I'm gonna miss this once you go, Lucile. No way for me to ride along?"
Lucile brings the soapy loofa to Maya's stomach, "You're barely a Fledgling. I don't want anything bad happening to you. I--I could never live with myself if any harm came to you."
Maya sighs, "Yeah, I guess so."
Lucile kisses Maya on the cheek, "I'm just looking out for you, sweetie. I'm sorry."
Maya smiles, "It's OK, I understand."
Lucile smiles back, "Good."
Maya continues, "So, um, you all ready and prepped, miss courier?"
Lucile is still a bit unsure, but she replies, "Eh. As ready and prepped as I'll ever be."
Maya nods, "Cool. Either way, I'm glad I get to spend more time with you."
Lucile smiles, "Me too, sweetie. Me too."
Maya turns the cold water knob and the water becomes colder.
Lucile pulls Maya in and hugs her, "Brrrrr. You like it cold, huh?"
Maya lightly nods and smiles.
The 2 then share a passionate kiss under the flowing water. Maya's tongue enters Lucile's mouth and dances with hers. They moan and moan.
Maya breaks the kiss and says, "I love you, Lucile."
Lucile replies, "I love you too, my poinsettia."
Maya wraps her arms around Lucile's waist and kisses her again. Lucile grips Maya's shoulders and moans.
Maya smiles, "Mmm, you're so beautiful, Lucile."
Lucile blushes, "Oh, stop it."
Maya proceeds to kiss Lucile on the neck and nibble on her ear.
Lucile closes her eyes and lets out a soft moan, "Oh, god, Maya..."
Maya then whispers into Lucile's ear, "I want you so badly, Lucile."
Lucile whispers back, "I want you too, Maya. I need you."
Maya bites her lip, "How 'bout I go down on you?"
Lucile breathes heavily, "Oh, god, Maya, you're making me so wet. B--But we got stuff to do tonight. How 'bout after?"
Maya smirks, "OK. After it is."
Lucile giggles and kisses Maya on the forehead.
Maya returns the kiss and then says, "So, um, anything else you wanna add? About the other Kindred, I mean."
Lucile nods, "Well, I don't know the others there too well. Just...be careful. Like I said last time, this town and the Kindred in it have a history- a past, if you will. It's best if you don't reopen any...old wounds, if you catch my drift."
Maya nods, "I'll keep that in mind."
Lucile continues, "Just be polite and respectful."
Maya looks down, "Uh...one more question."
"Sure, what is it?"
"I know most Kindred are like super-old, but, like uh...will they approve of our relationship?"
Lucile eyes widen, "Wow, uh, I don't see why they shouldn't. We're both consenting adults and we love each other. What more is there to it?"
Maya frowns, "Yeah...but--"
Lucile says, "Then what's the problem?"
"A lot of them come from different times, y'know, when it was, um...well, it wasn't acceptable to have a relationship with someone of the same sex, y'know, those days."
Lucile thinks for a moment and then replies, "True, but, it's different now. I think we'll be fine."
"OK. Well, if it's OK with you, can we, uh...hold off on telling everyone about our relationship?"
Lucile warmly smiles and reassures Maya, "Look, don't worry about it, ok? If anyone's got a problem with us, then they're gonna have to go through me. And Eleanor."
"Th--Thanks, Lucile. I guess we should, um, finish getting ready. I don't wanna keep the Prince waiting. Or Eleanor."
Lucile nods, "Right."
After they finish the rest of their showering, Maya puts on the clothes Lucile picked out for her. She puts on the pants, shirt, and blazer.
Maya looks sharp, confident, fashionable, and sexy.
Lucile puts on a white blouse with black geometric patterns. She also wears a pair of black pants and a pair of brown flats. She adds a dark-green cardigan that has yellow buttons.
Maya says, "Wow. You look...fantastic, Lucile."
Lucile nervously smiles, "You think so? It's not as sexy as yours, though--"
Maya shakes her head, "T--This looks good, Lucile! You look like a...really hot librarian."
Lucile bites her lip, "I knew you were gonna say that. Ha! Uh...Thanks, Maya."
Maya then asks, "What about makeup? I know you got a lot lying around here." Maya paces around the room, trying to find the makeup.
Lucile says, "Uh, let me do you."
Maya stops in her tracks, "OK. Sure."
Lucile says, "But first, we have to...feed."
Maya presses her lips together, "Oh...uh, right. That."
Lucile nods her head, "It's the nature of our existence, Maya. I don't need to tell you that the alternatives are much worse."
Maya's eyes dart back and forth as she recalls her time with Lucile. She remembers what happened the previous night. The image of that female jogger lying in the park flashes through her mind.
"Yeah. I--I guess you're right," Maya says, trying to push the thoughts out of her mind.
Lucile takes Maya by the hand and walks her out of the bedroom.
Maya says, "I just wish there was a more...ethical way of doing it."
Lucile shrugs, "Mmm. You know, there are, but it usually involves complicated arrangements. And those...are not something I'd suggest. Besides, you don't have to worry about that right now."
Maya exhales, "I guess not. So, um, where do you wanna go and...hunt?" She can't believe she actually said the word, "hunt." And with such ease.
"We'll find a place on our way to the auditorium."
"Can't we do it after I meet the Prince and the other Kindred."
Lucile shakes her head, "Generally, it's considered impolite to...socialize with other Kindred when the Hunger distracts you."
"Oh. OK, I'll keep that in mind."
Lucile thinks of a place to feed, "I might know a place or 2. C'mon, let's go!"
Lucile hands Maya her cottage keys, "Here, this is OUR place now. Why don't you lock the door while I get the car, OK?"
"O--OK." Maya still can't believe that Lucile asked her to move in. It's such an honor, but it also makes her nervous. She's never had her own place before. It's always been renting or sleeping in motel rooms when things got sour.
Lucile leaves to go get the car, "The silver key is for the top lock and the golden one is for the bottom."
"OK."
Lucile grabs the car keys from the key holder and proceeds to skip towards the exit. She loves her Haven.
It's cozy and simple, but it's perfect for her and Maya.
Maya locks the door and smiles.
She turns around to see the deep red Camaro with a black stripe running down the middle. Lucile honks the horn and beckons Maya to hop in.
Maya smiles and walks down the steps.
Maya gets in the front seat and shuts the door. She then fastens her seatbelt and looks at Lucile, who has her hands tight on the steering wheel.
Maya says, "It's a good thing you're here, Lucile. I--I don't really know how to drive a car. Didn't see much point in it."
"Oh, well, that's OK, sweetie."
Maya continues, "But I have a--a...promise me you won't laugh."
Lucile puts her foot to the pedal and says, "Hmm? I would never."
"OK, well, I have a Vespa Scooter. B--But it's in the apartment's garage, gathering dust. I barely take it out. Last time I took it out, ah, never mind." She waves her hand in the air, hoping to get the memories out of her head.
"Haha, wow, that's kinda cool! I can actually imagine you in one of those half-face helmets," Lucile says.
"Maybe I should look into getting it fixed," Maya asks as a gleam forms in her eyes.
Lucile chuckles, "Hehe, sure!"
Lucile is still driving. She looks at Maya, who is staring outside the window, deep in thought.
Maya asks, "So, Perfectionism, huh?"
Lucile replies, "Hmmmm?"
"Our Clan's Compulsion."
Lucile bites her lip, "Oh, um, yeah, well, you know."
"Yeah. So, how do you manage?"
Lucile takes her foot off the gas pedal just a bit, "I just...keep telling myself that I'm doing it for a greater cause. And that helps. Usually. Y'know, there were times I had to repeat things...obsessively just to get it 'right'. And there was the...other thing. But I'm OK now."
"Oh."
"Yeah, but, I don't know how it'll be for you. Every Tremere is different. Some of them are pretty hardcore, and then there's, like, me."
"I'm glad you're here to help me through this, Lucile. You and Eleanor."
"Thank you. It means a lot. I'm sure she'd be happy to hear that."
"So, see anyone we can...feed on?"
"Uh, well, let's stop here and have a look around. Street lights look a bit dim and I know there's lots of alleyways. Lots of places for a human or two to hide."
"O--OK." Maya is still not quite used to the fact that she is now a bloodthirsty being for all of eternity.
Lucile parks the red Chevy near an old post office, "I think it's best if we split up."
Maya frowns, "But there's no one here."
"There will be. You'll know. Use your Auspex Discipline if you have to."
Maya is still a bit uncertain about going solo, "B--But..."
Lucile places her hands on Maya's cheeks and looks into her eyes, "You can do this, sweetie. I know you can."
"I can..." Maya looks at Lucile's kind face, "I--I can...do this."
Lucile gives Maya a quick kiss on the lips, "That's my poinsettia."
"Thanks, Lucile."
Lucile steps out of the car and closes the door. Maya does the same.
She waits until Lucile is out of sight.
Maya goes in the opposite direction towards the sound of some loud country music.
Lucile turns around and watches her go and then heads off towards the shops, most of which are shuttered by now.
She's cautious as she walks around the dark, quiet buildings. It's somewhat eerie.
She stops for a moment and listens.
She overhears a man speaking, "I'm tellin' you man, that fire was FIGHTIN' US! In all my years fightin' fires, I ain't ever see anythin' like that. It's--It's like the fire had a life of its own, man!" He speaks with a certain mixture of fear and excitement.
Lucile thinks to herself, "What are they on about...fire?" She crouches near some garbage cans and watches the man and his companion.
The 2 men are sitting on the steps, talking to each other. One is dressed in a firefighter outfit. The other has his hands together, clasping a cigarette.
"Life of its own, hah! That's impossible," his companion responds.
The first man continues, "We...we were too late. By the time we arrived, fire was still raging on. It took HOURS. We were so busy dousing the main parts of the mansion. And then..."
The 2 men go on talking and Lucile doesn't feel the need to listen to the rest.
She's about to turn away, but stops when she sees one of the men stand up walk away, "G'night!"
"Yep! I'm gonna take a nice, long-ass bath." He shakes his head and walks towards Lucile.
The other man sits back and sighs, "Damn, what a night." He takes a puff of his cigarette and exhales.
Lucile remains still until she's sure that no one is around. She looks around and finds a dimly-lit corner, where she can lurk in the shadows, pounce on her target, and drag him away to feed.
She can hear his heartbeat.
She's still unsure whether this is the best way to go about it, but she doesn't have any time to spare.
"Well, I guess he'll have to do for tonight."
The man is too busy muttering to himself. Lucile is ready.
She jumps out of the shadows and grabs him from behind. He turns around in surprise, but is too slow to react.
His eyes widen as he sees claws, fangs, and glowing green eyes.
"What the--!"
"Shhhhh, shhhh."
"Wh--"
Before he's able to utter another word, Lucile covers his mouth and sinks her sharp, pointy fangs into the firefighter's neck. He struggles for a moment, but eventually succumbs to the Kiss. He's too weak to fight back.
She drinks deeply, savoring the taste of his blood. It's warm and sweet.
Eventually, her fangs retract as his unconscious body gently falls to the ground. He's still breathing. She wipes her mouth and looks around. No one is around. She picks up the man and drags him to a nearby corner.
She bends down and licks his puncture wound with the roof of her tongue.
His heartbeat is slow and steady. She turns away and glances to make sure that he's OK.
For now, Lucile has satiated the Beast within, but it always hungers for more.
Maya, meanwhile follows the sound of the country music, which leads her to a group of med students sitting on the sidewalk.
There's a cool breeze, but they're still doing their thing. Most of them get up and walk away as Maya approaches.
A man walks out of a nearby bar, he looks distraught and his steps are unsteady. He leans against a wall and brings a bottle to his lips. Maya narrows her eyes as she tries to determine the contents of the bottle- it's green.
She gasps. It's a bottle of lemon soda!
When she still drew breath, lemon soda was one of her favorite beverages. Now, it's pretty much just blood all night, every night for all eternity.
Maya keeps her distance from the man. He proceeds to walk in the opposite direction, drinking his soda and muttering to himself. Maya, being the curious woman that she is, decides to tail him.
For some reason, she wants to know what's going on with this guy.
He walks, slowly, raising his bottle of soda in the air, burping here and there, and occasionally muttering a few things to himself. Maya follows him as best as she can.
He stops and throws the now-empty bottle into a trash can. He says, "Gonna miss you, Tommy, err, Dr. Sandoval. Gonna miss those medical jokes of yours, buddy. Heh. Best guy I ever worked with." He sways back and forth.
He takes a deep breath and wipes his eyes, "Why? Why'd anyone wanna stab you, Tommy?"
His voice cracks up a bit as tears begin to form in his eyes, "I know it's been, what, but...but...I can't...can't stop thinking about it. And now..."
The man crouches down and puts his face in his hands.
His voice cracks a bit more, "I--I don't know what to do." He then raises his head and says, "Ah, it's not fair. It's--"
Maya has decided he's gonna be tonight's "meal". Despite his sad story, he's still a mortal. She still can't believe that she's about to feed off him.
A part of her knows that all of this is wrong, but another part of her- the more primal part desires only thing right now, and that is to feed.
Maya makes her move as soon as the man stops talking. He's too upset to notice the redhead pounce on him from behind. Before he has a chance to turn around, Maya grabs him by the shoulders and bites into his neck.
He attempts to call out for help, but Maya quickly covers his mouth with her hand.
He attempts to pull away, but he's too weak. He slowly falls to the ground and his eyes roll back in his head as Maya's fangs pierce his sweaty neck.
Maya's eyes roll back as well, she feels a pleasant tingling sensation wash over her as she drinks. She savors the warmth of his blood as it flows into her mouth, she can probably taste bits of that lemon soda she used to savor so much.
She takes deep gulps of his blood. The more she feeds, the better it tastes.
She's lost in the moment, relishing in the sweet warmth of his blood, but she quickly snaps back to reality as she realizes that this isn't her first time feeding.
Nor will it be her last.
She shudders for a moment as she recalls her first time. She growls and grunts as the distraught man's body goes unconscious, his breathing becoming shallow and erratic.
After Maya finishes drinking, she licks her lips and looks around for a place to place this guy. Before doing so, she makes sure to lick his wound shut with the tip of her tongue.
She places him in a nearby dark corner and takes a moment to look at his face. It's pretty much as she expected. He looks pale and tears are still rolling down his cheeks.
Maya quickly walks away as soon as she sees someone walking towards her.
She listens, and she hears a car pull up next to her. It's Lucile, in her red Chevy Camaro. Maya smiles and gets in and the car speeds away.
Lucile says, "That was quick. Did you find anyone?"
Maya nods, "Uh, Yes."
Lucile narrows her eyes as she looks at Maya, "I know that look. You feel...wrong about this, right?"
"Kinda...it's just...I dunno. It feels so..." Maya tries to think of a word that accurately describes what she is feeling.
"Necessary?" Lucile asks.
Maya pensively nods, "Y--Yeah, like a necessary evil, I guess."
"This is the price we have to pay for eternity," Lucile flatly states.
"Yeah, I know. And it's..." Maya sighs deeply and continues, "Quite the price, y'know?"
Lucile places her hand on Maya's and says, "But you're a strong woman, Maya. You'll be fine."
Maya smiles, "As long as I have you, I think I'll be just fine."
Lucile blushes, "Well, of course. I'm just glad I can help you through this." She takes her hand off Maya and takes a sharp turn.
Maya looks out the window and asks, "Where are we headed to, anyways?"
"To the auditorium. To meet the other Kindred. Why? You wanna go somewhere else?"
Maya shakes her head, "No. I'm kinda excited to meet the others. Oh, speaking of which, didn't you say we'd do our makeup after we fed?"
"Oh, right. Let's make a quick stop...right...here."
Lucile slams the breaks and the car screeches to a halt. She turns on the interior light. It's bright orange.
Lucile pulls a makeup kit from the backseat says, "Close your eyes, I'll do yours first."
Maya obediently follows. She feels Lucile's cold hands on her face.
"I think some nice red lipstick, maybe a bit of foundation, a bit of blush, and...oh, some eye shadow, yep, what do you think, sweetie?"
Maya smiles as Lucile pulls her seat back and leans closer, "Yeah, sure."
Lucile then applies the makeup with a quick and steady hand, "Now, your turn." She pushes herself up and hands the makeup kit to Maya.
Maya looks through the makeup kit and mutters some stuff to herself, "Yeah...wow...this is quite the stash!"
"Heh. Online shopping is a helluva thing."
"Haha!" Maya chuckles.
Maya gently applies the makeup. Her hand doesn't shake once, nor does her heart race.
The end result is quite spectacular. Maya's eyes are lined with purple and red eyeshadow, her lips are a vibrant red, and her cheeks are dusted with subtle pink blush.
Lucile's eyes are lined with green eyeshadow, her lips are a shade of hot pink, and her cheeks are dusted with pale blue blush.
Both women smile. Lucile thinks, "You're a natural at this, sweetie! Did you ever go to cosmetology school or something?"
Maya smiles and shakes her head, "Nope. Just, uh, trial and error, I guess."
"Heh. Cool! Let's get going."
Lucile starts the car up as Maya rubs her lips together, "Y--You think this might be a bit much, Lucile?"
Lucile laughs and replies, "You wanna make a good first impression, don't you? Just remember, it's better to be overdone than underdone."
"I...guess so."
"Then let's get going. Gotta meet the Prince."
"Right. And the other Kindred, too!"
"Yep. Just...don't forget what I told you, OK?"
Maya nods and gives Lucile a wink, "Thank you for all of this."
"Oh, don't mention it, sweetie."
Maya stares outside the window as Lucile drives along. It's quiet. The car's engine is the only sound that can be heard for a while.
Lucile starts the conversation, "So, how do you feel?"
Maya can still feel the new blood flowing through her undead veins, "Kinda...I dunno, jittery? But also kinda...relaxed."
Lucile smiles and continues, "Yeah, the Hunger is like that. The Beast within us Kindred always hungers for more, it can only be kept at bay, but it ALWAYS hungers for more."
"Yeah, I've noticed."
"Eventually, you'll get used to it, I think. Everyone's different, Maya. Just...don't let either the Beast or your Hunger get the best of you, OK?"
"Yep."
"I mean, it's easy to get carried away and slip up, but...you know."
"Yeah. So, what should I do in a situation like that?"
Lucile winces, "Oh, I genuinely do not know. One thing I'm proud of is that I've NEVER killed anyone while feeding on them."
"That's amazing. I hope to do the same."
"Oh, um, I don't think anyone would blame you. You're a Fledgling, after all, and you're still learning, but...still, best not to have that kind of thing happen. But, like, what would happen if you did? I mean, uh, kill someone, I mean."
Maya thinks for a second, she remembers Eleanor not being too keen on giving her a lesson on corpse disposal, "Oh god, uh, well, I--I don't wanna talk about it, Lucile."
Lucile understands, she smiles and says, "Yep. Grim stuff, huh? Yeah, you're right, I don't wanna think about it, either."
Maya thinks for a moment and says, "I hope you're able to feed once you're...out there."
Lucile nods, "Don't worry. I got it figured out. Well, mostly, anyway."
Lucile smiles and takes Maya's hand, "Just promise me that you'll behave when I'm gone. I don't wanna come back and find out that you've breached the Masquerade or something."
Maya sighs, "I'll--I'll try my best."
"And remember, if things get too much, well...we should really figure something out."
Maya narrows her eyes, "But you'll have your phone, won't you?"
Lucile shakes her head, "Can't risk it. Second Inquisition's monitoring everything these nights."
"Oh, so how are we gonna keep in touch," Maya asks, a look of sadness forming on her face.
"I...think I know someone who can arrange a little something for us."
"I--Is it legal."
Lucile laughs, "Eh. But he's on the level, I think. If I say the right things, that is."
"OK, good. I--I just want to know that I can stay in touch with you. I--I don't wanna lose you."
Lucile takes her eyes off the road and smiles, "Aw, Maya. You're so sweet! Of course you'll be able to stay in touch with me, we'll figure it out, alright?"
"I guess so. So, um, where's this auditorium at?"
"Not too far now," says Lucile as she presses her foot down on the gas pedal.
Maya bites her lip, "I can't believe how much things have changed, y'know, just these past few days. And, uh, nights."
"Mm-hmm, it's been quite the rollercoaster, hasn't it? Well, we're almost there, OK? You got this."
Maya nods, "Yep. I'm really excited!" She grins as the car picks up speed.
"Good," says Lucile as she turns a corner, "Now, just one more question."
Maya looks at Lucile and says, "Hmm?"
Lucile asks, "Are you sure you wanna go through with this? You don't have to, you know."
Maya smiles and answers, "I'm sure. I'm ready."
Lucile smiles and is satisfied with the response, "That's what I wanted to hear. Now, don't worry about, y'know, the other thing. I'm pretty sure the Kindred here wouldn't judge us for being in a relationship, so we'll just roll with it."
Maya scratches the back of her neck and asks, "D--Do we have to tell them?"
"Eh, it's better. I...don't want anyone else getting any ideas while I'm gone, you know what I mean?"
Maya purses her lips, "I...guess."
Lucile sees the abandoned auditorium, "There it is. Let's do this, alright?"
Maya is all eager and excited, "Let's!"
Lucile stops the car and parks it next to a regular-looking Toyota sedan. She gets out of the car and shuts the door, Maya follows her lead.
The 2 walk up to the auditorium and Lucile stops to look at her girlfriend.
"You look great, Maya. You got this, don't worry. I'll be there. I love you."
Maya is about to say something, but her mind is racing. She's having a hard time coming up with an answer.
Lucile takes a deep breath and places her hand around Maya's shoulder, "It's OK. Just...be your charming self, OK?"
Maya nods, "Right. My...charming self."
"Good," says Lucile, smiling. She gives Maya a quick peck on the cheek and confidently strides towards the auditorium.
Maya takes a deep breath and follows suit. She tries to make herself look presentable and confident. She makes sure that there are no creases on her clothes and that her makeup is still on point.
The 2 enter the building through a side door, and are greeted by the sight of a few plastic chairs arranged in a circle in the middle of the room.
Cobwebs, dust, and graffiti can be seen everywhere.
In the middle of the circle are 3 people, and one of them is standing.
Prince Lucas of Clan Ravnos approaches the duo with open arms and a smile on his face. He's wearing a long trench coat and denim jeans. His hair is slicked back as a toothpick hangs from his mouth.
He says, "Ah, you must be the new Tremere- Maya." His voice is calm and confident.
Maya smiles and replies, "Y--Yes. That's me. I'm Maya." She stretches out her hand as Prince Lucas firmly takes it, shakes it, and says, "It is a pleasure to finally meet you, Maya."
Prince Lucas beckons Maya to come meet the other 2 individuals.
Standing close by is Sheriff Eunice of Clan Malkavian. She's wearing her police uniform, and a gun hangs from her waist. Her hair is tied into a tight ponytail with not a single strand out of place. The look on her face is cold and expressionless.
Maya gasps and hesitates as she notices the badge on Sheriff Eunice's chest pocket, "Oh--uh, a cop. Whoa. Hi?" Maya stretches out her hand.
The Sheriff of Plaintry doesn't return the handshake, she instead stares at Maya and her mouth doesn't even move as she says, "Hmmm."
Prince Lucas comes to Maya's aid, "Sheriff Eunice isn't...exactly the talkative type." He leans in and whispers into her ear, "Malkavians."
Maya awkwardly nods her head, "Oh, yeah, of course, right, who else is here? Y--You, obviously, but...who's this?"
Maya looks at the man sitting on the plastic chair. He's wearing a gray hoodie and track pants, his beard is badly trimmed, and his eyes are baggy. His hair is also quite disheveled.
Prince Lucas puts his hands together and says, "Ah, yes, the representative of the Thin-Bloods. This is Dylan."
Dylan springs up from his seat and stands up. He stretches out his hand, "Hi, I'm Dylan. Thin-Blood rep in this town."
Maya shakes his hand, "Nice to meet you, Dylan. I'm Maya."
Maya then narrows her eyes as she's shaking his hands, "I've...seen you someplace before. I--I just can't tell where."
Dylan nods his head and replies, "Oh, yeah, probably." He withdraws his hands as he chews on his dry lip and blinks excessively, like a piece of eyelash hair got stuck in his eye.
He nervously smiles, "I--I mean, it's great to meet you, Maya. Come, have a seat. Lucile, good to see you again."
Lucile smiles as she takes a seat, "Good to see you too, Dylan. You doin' OK?"
Dylan quickly nods as he shuffles back to his seat.
Dylan and the Prince sit down. Maya and Lucile take their seats.
Sheriff Eunice stands, hands clasped in front of her. Her unyielding gaze follows Maya as she sits down.
Maya fidgets as the Sheriff's eyes scan her. It's not the first time that Maya has been looked at like that by a cop.
Prince Lucas says, "Ah, it appears the seating might not be adequate for tonight's meeting. Sheriff Eunice, please go and call Frank and tell him to bring a few more chairs."
She nods and walks away to go and relay the Prince's instructions to his Ghoul, Frank.
Maya looks over to Lucile and Lucile responds with a reassuring smile.
Maya tries to keep a cool demeanor, but her leg is shaking.
Lucile gives her a reassuring nod and Maya thinks to herself, "It's ok, think happy thoughts. Happy thoughts. Happy thoughts."
Prince Lucas places his hand on Maya's and says, "How are you feeling, Maya? Are you adjusting well?"
Maya exhales and replies, "It's been...interesting, to say the least." She awkwardly laughs and so does the Prince.
"Ha, yes. It's quite an exciting time. For you, and for us. Yours is the first Embrace I've authorized ever since I took Praxis."
Maya leans in and asks, "So, um, Ravnos, huh. How do you manage all your, uh, Princely duties with your Clan Curse? I'd be constantly distracted by making sure I don't go up in flames because I stayed in one place for too long."
Lucile looks at Maya and nudges her. She wasn't expecting Maya to say that.
The Prince stares at Maya and is caught off guard, "A bold question! Well, I'll simply tell you what a Camarilla rep told me not so long ago: 'Just don't sit in one place too long and you'll be alright.'"
The Prince lets out a soft chuckle as he recalls this piece of "sagely" advice. He tosses his toothpick away and places his hands together. He continues, "It would appear that your Sire taught you well. Most Fledglings still struggle with basic concepts."
He looks at Lucile and says, "It seems she's quite the fast learner. A credit to her mentor!"
Lucile bows her head and smiles, "Yes. A credit indeed."
Maya says, "I'm...so sorry, I--I didn't--"
Sheriff Eunice drags in a stacked pile of plastic chairs and hastily lays them out.
Just then, Eleanor walks in. She's wearing a black and white striped blouse and a maroon dress. Her gray hair is tied in a bun, and she's wearing a pearl necklace. She's carrying a black handbag. She strides towards the Prince and curtly nods.
She says to Prince Lucas, "Ah. I see you've already met my second Childe."
Prince Lucas gets up and shakes Eleanor's hand, "She is quite the bold one. Smart, too. It's good to see you again, Eleanor." The Prince's voice is flat and calm, and his smile is genuine.
He gestures to Maya and Lucile, "Your Childer here show great potential."
"Yes. I believe they do." Eleanor takes her seat, and Prince Lucas sits back down, too.
The Elder Tremere greets Dylan and he smiles back at her.
After a few more minutes of idle chatter, in walks Arman, who is accompanied by Rolf. He holds his head up high as he approaches the group. Everyone, Maya included, stand up from their plastic chairs to greet the Ventrue.
Arman notices Maya and says, "Ah, you must be the new Tremere. A pleasure to make your acquaintance, Miss Maya." He takes her hand and kisses it. She's taken aback, and Lucile grimaces a bit.
Maya asks, "But how did you know my-- oh, right. Uh, nice to meet you, Mr. Arman." She warmly smiles.
Arman shakes Prince Lucas's hand, "Good evening, Prince Lucas. I hope all is well."
The Wanderer replies, "Not necessarily, but we will discuss that once Ginny arrives. Also, you're late, Arman."
Arman's glances dart around the place, "Forgive me, my liege. I had other...pressing matters to attend to." He bows his head slightly.
Prince Lucas raises his hand and waves it in the air, "It's OK, Arman. Just don't let it happen again. Please, take a seat. I expect better from the representative for Clan Ventrue." He gestures to one of the empty seats.
Rolf, meanwhile, is standing besides his master. Arman looks at Rolf and says, "Where are my manners. Maya, this is Rolf, my Ghoul. Rolf, say hello."
The big man takes Maya's hand and almost crushes it, "Rolf." He doesn't smile, nor does he blink.
Maya, being the friendly person that she is, replies, "Hi, Rolf! It's nice to meet you! I'm Maya." She gives him a cheerful smile and awkwardly withdraws her hand.
Arman notices Maya's discomfort, "Rolf here has been working out very well. His strength and...aggressiveness are a boon to me, but I'm sure he's not everyone's cup of tea."
Dylan scoffs but doesn't say anything.
Maya and Lucile politely smile as a few minutes pass.
Eventually, in walks Ginny. She's wearing a black, long-sleeved bodycon dress with a V-neck and a pair of pumps. She has a determined, assertive look on her face.
She walks past Maya, ignoring her, and takes her seat.
Prince Lucas stands up and greets Ginny, "Ah, Ginny! A pleasure to see you again. I trust your night has been quiet."
Ginny shrugs and gives Arman a quick glance, "Eh. I've seen quieter." She smirks as she sits down.
Maya clears her throat and extends her hand out, "Uh, hi. I'm Maya. Tremere."
Ginny doesn't return the handshake, she simply says, "Ginny. Lasombra." She then folds her hands and leans back in her chair.
Maya is taken aback by this, but she quickly regains her composure.
Lucile tugs on Maya's sleeve and whispers, "It's OK. Don't worry about it."
Ginny overhears and responds, "Aww, am I not nice enough for you 2? Haha!" She rolls her eyes and groans.
Prince Lucas says, "Ginny, we have important matters to discuss. Do try to contain yourself. Maya was trying to be nice."
Ginny pouts, "Fine."
"Hmph. Thank you. Now, let's get down to...business, shall we?"
The Prince looks at Maya, "Well, I'm sure you have questions, Maya. Why don't you start off with an inquiry? I'd like to know what is on your mind."
Maya raises her eyebrows, "Oh. Um, wow, ok. Well, I guess my first question is...why me? What'd I do that made you take an interest me? I'm just, uh, no, was a lifestyle writer for a small-town magazine."
Ginny is the one who rudely answers, "Oh, for starters, your little vamp curiosity, missy. Or obsession. Ugh."
Maya is startled by the response and turns her head, "Uh, pardon?"
The Lasombra rolls her eyes but is interrupted by Prince Lucas, "A year or so ago, a woman by the name of Kaitlyn made a rather...incendiary video on Facebook about you, Maya. She had some very choice words when describing your interest in...vampires." He shakes his head in amusement.
Maya sighs and is a bit embarrassed, "Oh...Kaitlyn. Right. We went on a couple of dates. I still can't believe she said all those awful things."
Lucile takes her hand, "It's OK, sweetie. It's not worth getting worked up over. That's the past."
Maya looks at Lucile and gives her a reassuring smile.
Prince Lucas continues, "Anyway, that is when you first appeared on our radar, as it were."
"Why?" Maya asks.
The Wanderer responds, "Well, I'm sure Eleanor's already taught you the basics of our society- the Traditions, the Sects, and the like. But I must tell you, Maya, that the vampire world is quite...paranoid on nights such as these."
Arman leans forward and adds, "Yes. The Second Inquisition monitors nearly everything. We can't risk any leaks or intrusions, especially regarding our society."
Maya furrows her brow, "I...think I get it. I pretty much barked up the wrong tree, huh?"
Arman replies, "Indeed. Fortunately, your actions and the subsequent fallouts are quite limited--"
Maya furrows her brow, "Actions?"
Ginny replies, "Your little spat with that friend of yours."
That comment hits Maya like a ton of bricks.
Maya stands up and points her finger at Ginny, "You leave her out of this! I--I don't wanna hear about her from you, OK?! I'm done with her! DONE!"
Maya's fingers twitch as her claws involuntarily emerge.
Ginny snarls, "Think long and hard about what you do next, redhead. I can make your Unlife...so very difficult."
The room is silent for a few tense moments.
Eleanor springs up from her seat, "ENOUGH! Both of you. Maya, sit down. This is NOT the place to display such behavior! What did I tell you about manners?!"
Maya's hands are trembling as she sits back down, "I--I'm sorry, I don't know what came over me."
Lucile puts her hand around Maya's shoulders, "It's ok, sweetie, it's OK." She gives Ginny a nasty look.
Eleanor sighs and sits back down.
Lucas says, "I...saw the video with you and Annette. I'm...sorry, Maya. I really am, but the claims made by your former friend in that video will likely be looked into by entities and organizations we'd rather not deal with at the moment."
Maya bites her lip, "But...I--I was so angry and--and I was tired of being disrespected and mocked for my interest in vampires and, and..." Maya's voice cracks.
Lucile rubs her back, "It's ok, sweetie, it's OK. Shhhh. Calm down."
Maya closes her eyes and takes a deep breath, "I--I'm fine. It's just...it's just been a lot, y'know? And I haven't had the time to fully process it yet. Sorry."
Prince Lucas nods, "Of course, Maya. But, please, try to be more discreet in the future. You're not an ordinary mortal anymore. You now have a responsibility to uphold the Masquerade."
"I--I understand. I'm sorry, Prince Lucas."
Eleanor adds, "Yes. We can't risk having anyone find out about our society. It's far too dangerous. I've been informed about a fire in a nearby residence. That is likely the work of the SI, is it not?"
Maya's face is pensive, "I'm sorry, Ginny. I--I didn't mean to scream at you."
Ginny folds her arms, "Whatever. Just watch it. You don't want to mess this up for me, alright?"
Prince Lucas slowly shakes his head, "My people report an unusual amount of unmarked SUVs and dozens of FBI agents patrolling the area. I've taken precautions on my end, but I still urge vigilance from everyone here."
He replies to Eleanor's question, "The fire at the McMahon mansion doesn't appear to be the work of the SI, but fire is their...way of doing things. Strange."
Maya raises an eyebrow, "Wait? McMahons? Like, THE McMahons?"
Lucas tilts his head to the side, "You knew them, Maya?"
Maya grimaces, "Oh god, no! They were a bunch of rich, bigoted assholes who made life for people like me a living hell."
Arman, who has remained quiet the whole time, nods his head and says, "Yes. They were the wealthiest and influential family in this town." He holds back from adding more.
Ginny glances at him and shrugs.
Lucas looks over at Maya, "Well, Maya. I suppose you have a lot MORE questions now." He laughs.
Maya sits upright and asks, "Yeah. Well, for starters, what do we know about this McMahon mansion fire? Were--were they uh...Kindred or something?"
Eleanor replies, "It appears that the McMahons were regular mortals. Neither Kindred, nor Second Inquisition."
Prince Lucas continues, "Regardless, their...demise has brought the FBI right to our doorstep. Things are not going to be easy."
Ginny sighs, "Yeah, I've noticed. Saw a shit load of feds, unmarked SUVs, yada yada yada. I say we take 'em out."
Maya audibly gasps at that proposition. She turns her head towards Ginny and says, "I--I'm sorry, did you say what I think you said? 'Take them out'? That's...that's--"
Ginny's gray eyes gleam as she turns her head towards Maya, "We can't have anyone like that poking around here. It's already dangerous."
Lucile leans forward, "Uh, it seems a bit rash, don't you think?"
Ginny sneers, "What do you know, Tremere shut-in?"
Maya is about to shoot back but Eleanor silences her. She holds her hand up and says, "We should discuss this later. Prince Lucas, I trust you will not allow these developments to get out of hand."
The Prince politely nods and says, "Yes, there are certainly...bigger fish to fry. Arman, any luck on finding more about the MIB operation?"
Arman shakes his head, "I'm afraid not, my liege. I've been...rather busy these past few nights." He looks at Ginny and smirks.
Prince Lucas says, "Hmph. Well, that is unfortunate. Any leads on who was responsible for the destruction of that Caitiff courier?"
Ginny shuffles in her seat as Dylan shakes his head, "I looked into that. Nothing at the uh...scene of the crime. Sorry."
The frustration builds on the Prince's face, he clenches his jaw and looks around the circle. His eyes dart from Maya to Ginny. His expression goes from frustrated to one of calm contemplation.
He then looks at Maya and warmly says, "I'm sure you're quite...confused about what we're talking about, yes?"
Maya raises her eyebrows, "Oh, um, yeah, I guess. I've been feeling kinda overwhelmed ever since, y'know. What do you mean by MIB, like Men In Black?"
Prince Lucas chuckles, "Oh, no, MIB stands for Military Intelligence Brigade. I have it on good authority that they are running an operation codenamed 'Memphis Green' in this town."
Maya can't help but simply say, "Oh...wow. Whoa. That's crazy."
Arman speaks, "Well, not much is know about operation Memphis Green, other than it involving long-term digital manipulation and surveillance coupled with deep-cover work in local law enforcement. So you can imagine why some of us are keen on...taking out the FBI agents in this town."
Maya's eyes widen, "That's...wild."
Ginny looks at the Prince and asks, "What's the redhead even doing here? I thought these meetings were ONLY for Clan reps."
The Prince sighs deeply, "Well, yes, Ginny, they are. I just thought it would be a good idea to...bring someone in who could potentially offer some insight on these matters. Besides, I believe it would help Ms. Maya understand how our society works, yes?"
Ginny rolls her eyes, "Right. Sure."
Prince Lucas leans forward and asks the newly Embraced Tremere, "Well, have you heard anything at all about this operation Memphis Green?"
Maya's lips are pressed together as she shakes her head from side to side.
The Prince arches one eyebrow, "How about a company called Vespire Inc., operating out of the Froco building?"
Maya's eyes widen and her mouth opens, "Uh...Y--Yeah. Actually, I--I have."
She tells the others how she walked in to the Froco building a few days back and peered into one of the office rooms full of what appeared to be surveillance equipment.
She then says, "And then, this really big and mean guy with a thick mustache comes in and tells me to leave!" She nervously chuckles.
She continues, "I...I was worried that I might have been messing with something important. Y'know?"
The Prince raises his head slightly, "Anything else?"
Maya quickly pulls her phone out from her pocket and hastily scrolls through the documents she downloaded from that subreddit a few nights back, "Uh, yes. 2 leaked PDFs, actually. It's connected to Vespire. Kinda. Maybe. Probably." Her hand shakes as she passes the phone over to Prince Lucas.
His eyes quickly scan through the pages. His eyes then dart to Maya and he asks, "Where did you find this?"
"On a uh...subreddit. Leaked by some weirdo who claimed to know 'stuff' about 'stuff'. Haha!" She nervously laughs.
Prince Lucas nods and hands the phone over to Dylan, "Interesting. What do you make of this, Dylan?"
The Thin-Blood shrugs, "Looks like architectural plans of some kind."
Maya says, "There's another PDF, but it was full of business...gibberish."
Arman leans back, "Hand me the phone, I might be able to decipher it."
Dylan hands the phone over to Arman. He opens the file and studies it intently, "Yes, yes. I see. Interesting..." He mutters something inaudible under his breath.
Prince Lucas leans forward, "Anything, Arman?"
"I'll need time to look over it, Prince Lucas."
The Ventrue looks at Maya and asks, "Can you please send these documents to my email? It's uh, I--I'll give you the address." He reaches into his pocket and hands Maya a slip of paper.
Maya smiles, "Uh...how 'bout I WhatsApp them to you, instead? It'd be a lot faster."
"Whatever is more convenient for you, my dear."
Arman hands Maya's phone back to her and nods.
The Blue Blood proceeds to tell Maya his phone number and she sends the 2 PDFs to him.
Ginny snickers, "Don't have a phone. So, would you be a darling and print 'em all out for me? And get 'em spiral bound too."
"Huh, wha--" Maya doesn't know how to reply.
Prince Lucas sighs, "I believe she was joking, Maya. Anyway, how soon can you make sense of those 2 documents, Arman?"
Arman responds, "It will take time, Prince. I will have to call a friend of mine who is more...well-versed in this kind of thing. I'll let you know when I have some insight. The quicker we can unravel this mystery, the better."
Ginny points to Maya's phone, "Y'know, you're gonna have to limit your use of it, right?"
Maya looks at Ginny and says, "Uh, yeah. Yeah, I know. I'll...I'll turn it off when I don't need it. I'll also avoid...mentioning anything vampire-related. I know the SI monitors everything these nights. That's really messed up."
In a rare moment, Sheriff Eunice steps forward and bluntly says, "You know, some Princes will execute you on sight just for having a phone."
Lucile's eyes widen, "Oh. Hmm..."
Prince Lucas raises his hand and waves it, "Come now, Eunice. You're scaring the poor woman. But, yes, you ought to be careful now, Maya. Like it or not, you have incurred some attention from our foes due to your prior interest in our kind, and this can be dangerous if you don't stay on the level."
Maya smiles and nervously says, "I--I'll be careful, m--my Prince."
"Good. Any other questions, Maya?"
"What was that I heard about a Caitiff courier getting destroyed?"
Prince Lucas sighs, "Ah, yes, that. Well, if you're curious about how Lucile got the job as the replacement courier, then I suppose this is the perfect opportunity to discuss it, yes?" He flashes a wide smile at Lucile.
Lucile nervously chuckles, "I've been really focused on my training these past few nights, Prince Lucas. Studying maps, shortcuts, all that jazz. But, uh, yes, I suppose you're right. It's a good time to explain it."
Prince Lucas looks over at Maya and continues, "Well, a few nights back, one of our Caitiff couriers by the name of Max was supposed to deliver multiple packages. I've been told that one of these packages contained information pertaining to events in this town."
The Prince pauses and continues, "Needless to say, the courier never made it to his destination, and I believe his delivery was intercepted. Or destroyed, most likely. Till now, we've been unable to trace his vehicle."
Maya asks, "W--What kind of information?"
The Prince candidly replies, "Information...concerning past events in this town, Maya. Yesterday night, I was told that said information could potentially exonerate the Nosferatu."
Arman shuffles in his seat and clears his throat.
Maya's eyes widen, "Exonerate them of what? Also, where are the Nosferatu? I kinda wanted to see what they look like up-close."
Ginny rolls her eyes.
Prince Lucas nods, "Ah, the Nosferatu. They used to play a prominent role under the rule of the previous Prince. I believe Sheriff Eunice here can tell you a bit more about my predecessor." He beckons her to come forward, but she folds her arms and stands where she is.
The Malkavian Sheriff bluntly states, "Prince Geoffrey fucked around and he found out." A cold yet subtle smirk comes across her face.
Eleanor sighs, "The Children of Malkav are not known for their...couth."
Prince Lucas raises his hands and groans, "Fine, I'll tell you about the history of the Kindred in this town..."
He tells Maya everything (to the best of his limited knowledge) about how the Nosferatu and Toreador used to play a major role in this town under the "leadership" of Prince Geoffrey Calhoun.
The Ravnos continues, "Of course, I don't really know the first thing about poor old Geoffrey. But, let's just say that his approach to matters of this Society weren't always the best, shall we? It was, as I understand, a very laid-back approach. What's the expression--"
Arman interjects, "Laissez-faire."
"Yes, that. I've even been told that he didn't even see the need for...authorizations prior to Embracing a new Kindred. I have to say THAT this is rather...troubling to me."
The Prince lets out a sigh, "Anyway, in the end, Sheriff Eunice here is the one who delivered Final Death on Geoffrey for his...misdeeds. And with Geoffrey gone, I eventually took Praxis. The Elder Lasombra, Simon, wasn't too interested in the position despite being the one who...initially shook things up."
Ginny's eyes dart around the room and Prince Lucas turns to her and asks, "Speaking of which, I would really like to meet Simon one of these nights. I'm not sure why he is...avoiding me. Please tell him I would like a meeting tomorrow night. Would you?" The Prince's tone is final.
Ginny shrugs and says, "Yeah. Sure. He's just...been busy."
Prince Lucas continues, "Anyway, after that, the Nosferatu and Toreador in this town were either exiled or outright destroyed."
Eunice doesn't say anything, but simply stands with a neutral expression on her face.
Maya is in total shock (and a bit of awe) as she listens to Prince Lucas.
Prince Lucas says, "Well, Maya, that about wraps up the very brief history of the Kindred in this town, yes? I'm sure you have a million more questions, but your Sire can answer that if she so wishes. I personally believe it is best to leave the past behind us."
He grimly says, "Some things are best left buried...and undisturbed."
Maya nods and replies, "Thank you so much for the uh, the history of this town's...Kindred scene, I guess. It's a lot to process, but I'll try my best."
She looks at the Sheriff and then glances at Ginny, "Well, I--"
Just then Prince Lucas's Ghoul, Frank walks in. He bends down to whisper something into his master's ear. His expression immediately changes.
He stands up and announces, "I'm afraid we will have to resume this meeting some other time. A situation has arisen that requires my immediate...attention."
As he's walking out, he turns around and says, "My Ghoul, Frank, will take care of any remaining matters. Please, don't let him give you any trouble. I'll see you again soon. Good night, everyone." He gives Maya a stern nod as he departs.
Frank is a short, hairy, man in his mid-30s. He's wearing a stained white t-shirt covered by an olive-drab bomber jacket. His gray corduroy pants look like they've come straight from the 90s. He has a long, scraggly beard, and his hair is greasy and unkempt.
He looks over to Maya and awkwardly waves.
He smiles, revealing a slightly chipped front teeth, "Hi. Name's Frank. Lucas's-- I mean, Prince Lucas's retainer. You're the new Tremere, right?" He extends his hand out. She takes it and shakes it.
He says, "I've been authorized to act on behalf of Prince Lucas. He asked me to make sure that you're all settled in. Uh, where do you live?" He fiddles with his phone.
Maya thinks to herself, "Uh, wow, it's really happening. I--I'm a vampire! A--A Kindred! Tremere! Whoa."
She regains her composure, glances at Lucile, and replies, "Um...here's the thing, actually, Mr. Frank...Lucile asked me to move in with her. And I said yes, obviously," she smiles at her girlfriend.
Lucile nods and grins.
Frank looks up from his phone and asks, "Oh. So, uh, that's...nice. Was there any help you needed from the Prince with your move?" He sighs and scratches his neck.
"Now that you mention it, I might need some help moving my stuff from my old place. I mean, I'm only planning to keep a few things. A LOTTA stuff in that old apartment ain't mine."
"Interesting. How many trucks are we looking at here?" Frank's eyes glaze over.
Maya nervously laughs and replies, "Uh, whoa. Heh, heh. I think a small pickup would probably do. As I said, a lotta stuff came with the place and isn't mine."
Frank nods his head, "Hmmmm. OK. So, just a few suitcases of clothes, important papers, stuff like that, right?"
"Mm-hmm. More or less."
Frank puts his phone in his back pocket and says, "Well, it doesn't sound like much...I think we can complete the move by tonight."
Maya's eyes widen as a large smile comes across her face. She can't help but take Lucile's hands and jump up and down.
Maya says, "Really?! Oh my god, thank you so much!"
Frank nods his head, "Sure. I'm gonna need the address."
Maya tells the Ghoul her old address and the address of Lucile's Haven.
The Ghoul nods, "Ah. The cottage. Yeah, we can do it. Oh, I'll also be bringing a few Ravnos down to help us, too. You don't mind, do you?"
"Oh, no, that's fine. I--I don't mind. This is great."
Maya then looks to her Sire, Eleanor for approval, "Is that OK, Eleanor?"
Eleanor curtly nods, "I shall come and assist as well. It is only appropriate."
Just then Prince Lucas walks back in. His jaw is clenched tight and he has a look of cold fury in his eyes. He is accompanied by another Ravnos.
Prince Lucas speaks, "Frank? A word, please."
The other Ravnos is a male in his 30s. He's wearing black jeans and a green button-down shirt with one of the sleeves rolled up. A soul patch sits on his face and his hair is short. His skin is a warm tan and he stands a foot taller than Prince Lucas.
He's holding a thin brown box in his arms.
Frank steps forward, "Y--Yes, Prince Lucas. What do you need?"
"Wait for me outside." He gestures to the other direction. Frank nods and walks away as Prince Lucas follows.
The other Ravnos stands there. He smiles and introduces himself, "Keith. I take it you're the new Tremere everyone's excited about?"
Maya furrows her brow, "There's people excited about me?"
"Haha, don't get your hopes up. Just a couple of curious locals and passers by. Y'know how us Ravnos are- always on the move, trading stories. That sort of thing. I'm sure you'll get used to it."
Lucile and Maya give him a nod.
He then adds, "So, what's your name?"
"Maya."
"Maya. Knew another chick named Maya once. Tried to stake me. Hahaha, it was a little...unfortunate."
"Oh, uh...sorry to hear that."
"No worries. I was barely a Fledgling like you when it happened. Been running with Lucas and his...people ever since." He gazes off into the distance, tightening his grip on that brown box.
"Ah. I see."
"I don't know, even after all these years, I'm kinda just winging this vampire stuff."
"That's ok, I'm still getting used to it, too."
Arman can't help but interrupt, "Excuse me, Keith, what's in that box?" He's looking at the box.
Keith is a bit startled by that question, "Oh! Uh, nothing, it's, it's just some stuff, is all." Keith clears his throat and continues, "N--Nothing that concerns you, anyway. I was told to open it when the Prince returns. He didn't say anything else."
Prince Lucas walks back in, with Frank right behind him. The Prince looks over at Keith and nods his head.
Keith hands the brown box to Prince Lucas and says, "I'll be going now. Maya. Nice meeting you. You ever need a place to hang out--"
The Prince interrupts Keith, "That will be all, Keith. Thank you. Make sure the others are OK."
Keith shakes his head, "Y--Yeah, sure. Goodnight, everyone." He waves as he pulls out a keychain with a fob attached to it.
Maya smiles and waves goodbye.
Prince Lucas places the box on an empty chair and takes Maya and Lucile to the side. He starts by asking, "I've been told...that Maya wishes to relocate to Lucile's Haven. Is this true?"
Maya quickly replies, "Yes. I--I mean, L--Lucile asked me and my current apartment isn't exactly ideal for day-sleeping. Her place is a lot more...cozy." Maya is flustered and doesn't know how to articulate her thoughts to someone she just met.
Prince Lucas turns to Lucile and asks, "Lucile, are you certain about this? Your Haven is your home. I would understand if you didn't want any guests."
Lucile politely replies, "I've made up my mind, Prince Lucas. My Haven is also Maya's Haven."
"Frank told me that you require some...assistance moving?"
Maya bites her lip, "If it's not too much hassle for you. I mean, he's probably quite busy, but I don't wanna inconvenience you in any way, Prince Lucas."
Prince Lucas looks over at Eleanor, "I've been told you will be coming along as well."
Eleanor stands up and dusts herself off, "Yes, my liege."
Prince Lucas nods and looks at Maya and Lucile, "Very well. I'll make sure to send some of my people to help. I'm sure they'd appreciate...the change of scenery."
Maya asks, "Aren't Ravnos always changing scenery?"
Lucas lets out a soft chuckle, "Indeed we are, Maya." He nods and gives a reassuring smile.
He then turns to Frank, "Frank, you'll be coordinating the move. Make it happen and make sure there are no violations of the Masquerade. As it is, that much noise this late at night is bound to attract the wrong kind of attention. Please, do get back to me once everything is set."
"Yep." Frank shuffles out the door to go and make the necessary arrangements.
Lucas looks at Maya, "He'll meet you at your old place, don't worry. IF for some reason, there is any issue, come to me immediately."
Maya nods and replies, "I--I will. Thank you, Prince Lucas."
"Good. And remember, Maya. A favor is only a favor if it's repaid."
Maya's mouth is agape as she tries to formulate a response.
The Prince chuckles, "Don't worry, Usurper, we'll find a use for you." He laughs heartily.
Eleanor steps forward and bows, "Prince Lucas."
The Prince looks at her and simply replies, "Ah, Eleanor, there is something I wish to speak with you about." He beckons the Elder Usurper back to her seat and picks up that brown box on the seat.
He then sits down next to Eleanor.
Maya pokes her head in, "Um, Prince Lucas?"
"Yes, Maya?"
"I--I was just wondering what's in the box? Is it--is it a present or something?"
The Prince laughs and doesn't reply. The others in the circle of chairs are just as curious. Except for the Malkavian Sheriff. She just stands there, motionless.
Eleanor glances at Maya and says, "It is improper to ask questions about the Prince's affairs. Tsk."
Maya's eyes dart to the Sheriff, then to Eleanor. Lucile then takes her hand and gives it a gentle squeeze.
Eleanor continues, "Whatever its contents are, Prince Lucas will divulge the details when the time is right."
The Prince adds, "Indeed, Eleanor."
He proceeds to flick open the lid. Inside is a curved knife. Its grip is encrusted with emeralds and the blade itself is made of meteoric iron, etched with a single, ornate symbol. Its pommel appears to be an elegantly cut diamond.
Some red liquid can be swishing around inside the diamond. The various encrusted emeralds glow and fade as Prince Lucas takes the dagger in his hand.
"Wow." Maya is instantly mesmerized by the blade.
Prince Lucas holds the blade close to him and asks, "You know what this is, don't you, Eleanor?" He delicately hands her the dagger.
She gingerly takes the dagger and says, "I...might have some idea."
"Ah, I see. Perhaps, you might know of someone who'd like to take this weapon into safe keeping. Mr. Theodore, perhaps?"
He looks at her intently, gauging what her response is going to be.
Eleanor shakes her head and sighs, "I am unsure. If this is what I believe it is, then it is far too dangerous for any of us to possess, my Prince."
Maya clasps her hands together, "Uh...can I see it?"
Eleanor claps back, "It's NOT a toy, Maya!"
Maya recoils back.
Eleanor apologizes, "M--My apologies. I don't mean to be rude, Maya."
The Prince nods and says, "It's OK."
Ginny groans and asks, "What is it? Looks like a toy, to be honest. Heh."
The Prince looks at Eleanor and she replies, "A ritual dagger. One that is capable of performing a number of tasks. None of them glamorous, but necessary nonetheless."
Eleanor continues, "Dangerous in the wrong hands. I shall have to find some place to hide this for a while."
Lucile furrows her brow, "How 'bout we keep it at the House of--"
Eleanor gives one stern glance at Lucile and she stops in her tracks.
The Tremere Elder then whispers something in the Prince's ear.
Lucas raises his hand and says, "It recently came in Keith's possession. Both he and I were unsure of its significance, assuming it has has any. So, I decided it was best to ask the Clan most known for its interest in matters of the...occult."
He curtly nods to Eleanor.
She replies, "You made the correct choice, my liege." She bows her head.
Ginny scoffs, "Ugh, whatever. I'm going out for a smoke."
Lucile rolls her eyes as she watches Ginny walking out.
Eleanor whispers something to the Prince again and he looks over at Maya, "Maya."
"Y--Yes?"
"I would like you to assist me in a small task. Would you mind?"
Maya's eyes widen, "Um, sure. What is it?"
Eleanor replies, "There are Blood Wards around this abandoned auditorium. Simple ones to keep any mortals or prying eyes away from the building."
Lucile then adds, "There may be some additional wards to make the area more secure. I know that if any mortal steps on 'em, they'd be dizzy and sick outta their guts. Heh." She seems almost excited when talking about matters of the Blood.
It is what she specializes in, after all.
Eleanor continues, "Yes. We are not murderers. Should any mortal trespass, they will be merely inconvenienced, but no grave harm will be done to them."
Maya is flabbergasted.
"But, Eleanor, how do you even--"
"They are simple incantations, Childe. A Tremere is expected to know at least a few of these. Now, come. I assume that you have...fed recently?"
Maya looks at her Sire and nods her head, "Yep."
Eleanor gets up and goes to the corner of the room, near the entrance of the auditorium. There is an old, dusty desk. She turns around and faces the others.
Maya stands next to her Sire and whispers, "Uh...what do I do?"
"Slit your wrist and let the Vitae flow."
Under any other circumstance, saying those first 3 words would be incredibly messed up.
"Um, ok."
Maya raises her arm and draws her sharp claw across her wrist.
She hisses as the blood slowly drips out of her wrist and onto the ground.
Eleanor clicks her tongue, "You will have to do better than that, Childe. Only a little Vitae is needed."
Maya furrows her brow as she turns around and sees that everyone has gathered around to witness the spectacle.
"Oh. Oh. Uh...O--OK."
Eleanor then says, "Now, repeat after me. Ignore the others. Clear your mind of any distractions first. And remember, the intent is to merely incapacitate any mortal trespassers. The Vitae is only a medium. Do you understand?"
"I--I think so?"
"Good. Begin."
"I--I will not be disturbed."
Eleanor pays no attention to the others as she begins her chant. Maya follows along as best she can.
"And it shall be done."
"And it shall be done," Maya echoes.
"By the Order of Hermes, let it be so."
"B--By the Order of Hermes, let it be so."
"With the endowment of Magus Fedoso and the Pyramid."
"With the endowment of Magus Fedoso and the P--Pyramid," Maya repeats.
"May no mortal trespass these hallowed grounds."
"May no mortal trespass these hallowed grounds," Maya's voice shakes a bit.
Eleanor is standing there, arms folded, as she observes Maya.
Maya is visibly anxious and is having trouble focusing as she repeats, "L--Let it be so. L--Let...it...be...so."
The Elder stares at her Childe with a vacant expression, "Acceptable, but there is still so much more you have to learn."
She walks towards Maya and takes her by the hand, "One corner of the room is sufficient for now. Lucile can do the rest. Perhaps you might learn something from her, Maya."
Maya's eyes dart around the room, "Uh, um, Ok? I--I don't understand. What was I doing wrong?"
"Uncertainty, most likely. The Tremere demand perfection. Simply put, your chant was acceptable, but your confidence was lacking."
"Well, in my defense, I chose to specialize in Auspex and not Blood Sorcery."
Eleanor waves her hand in dismissal as Lucile steps forward and says, "It's ok. Don't worry about it, sweetie. I know this kind of stuff can be VERY overwhelming at first."
Maya sighs and shakes her head, "Yeah. W--Will I ever be as good as you?"
Lucile looks over at Maya and says, "I believe so. You're a fast learner, and I'm sure Eleanor will make sure you get the proper...guidance." She narrows her eyes, "Right, Eleanor?"
"Be that as it may, knowledge of the basics of Blood Sorcery is imperative in the service of our Clan. Do not doubt yourself, Childe."
"I--I'm sorry."
"You have nothing to apologize for, Maya. Remember that. Know what you are. Understand the power that courses through your veins- the power of the Blood. Use it to your advantage. Do not fear it. Become one with it."
"I--I will. B--Become one with the Blood."
"Good. Lucile, please finish the rest of the Blood Warding. It would be best if we do not keep the Prince and the others waiting."
Lucile presses her lips into a smile and goes from corner to corner of the auditorium.
"So, what EXACTLY did I do wrong, Eleanor?"
"It's a matter of focus. As I said before, our Clan demands and strives for perfection. This is especially true for the Fledglings. Perfectionism is our Compulsion- to fail is unacceptable."
"Y--Yeah. Yeah. I--I guess I'll have to practice then, huh? Do you have any suggestions? Those books on Auspex have been a real eye-opener, uh...no pun intended, haha."
"Mm. Books, is it? Well, there is no better way of learning such things than through experience. That is why I believe you should accompany Lucile as she places the Blood Wards. Watch how she does it. She is one of our best Thaumaturgists, after all."
"Uh, are you sure?"
Eleanor sighs, "Yes, Childe. I am sure. Now, go. But, please avoid distracting her. We wouldn't want her to waste her precious Vitae, would we?"
"No, of course not."
Eleanor gives Maya a nod and departs from the auditorium, "I shall meet you at your old apartment, Maya. I have some other matters to attend to first."
The Elder Tremere then takes the box and walks out the auditorium with it.
Maya politely replies, "OK! See you then!"
Arman remarks, "My, my, my. All this Blood Sorcery...stuff is quite intriguing! I myself specialize in the Dominate Discipline. I couldn't help but overhearing that you specialize in Auspex, Maya?"
Maya smiles, "Yes. Auspex. Y'know, it's so interesting. It's not just like looking through a high-powered telescope, it's like seeing colors come to life. And the sounds, wow. It's like hearing every single bird chirp, every leaf falling! I--It's incredible!"
She grins as she continues, "It's like seeing the world in an entirely new uh...light. But it can get overwhelming at times."
Arman pats Maya on the back, "I'm sure it can, Maya. I'm sure it can."
Dylan nods his head, "That's kinda neat, Maya."
Maya nervously chuckles, "Oh, uh...thanks, Dylan!"
Prince Lucas stands up, "It's been quite the thrilling night, but I think we ought to wrap things up, yes?"
He extends his hand out to Maya and says, "I have some other things that I must attend to. Something has come up and it requires my immediate attention. Thank you for being here and welcome to our world, Maya."
Maya pensively says, "Uh--uh, I should thank you for welcoming me in, Prince Lucas. You need any help with that problem you have?"
The Prince doesn't reply as he warmly smiles. He leaves the auditorium with Frank right behind him.
Maya watches the 2 men leave, then turns to Lucile.
Arman chases after the Prince and says, "Goodnight, Prince Lucas. I hope to see you again, soon." The Prince dryly nods and waves goodbye.
Maya looks at Lucile and asks, "So, are you all done? Is the uh, Ward...complete?" Maya points to the glowing circle of Vitae on the ground, "Done yet?" She scratches her head.
Lucile smirks and shakes her head, "Oh, Maya, sweetie, I haven't even started yet. There's a LOT I can teach you." She lowers her voice, "If you're willing, that is."
Maya's eyes widen and she lightly nods, "Mmm. I'm--I'm willing."
"Haha. Well, for now, just watch and learn, my poinsettia. Just watch and learn."
Maya intently watches Lucile. As she's looking, her eyes dart around the room.
Her ears pick up the subtle sounds of the night. The insects in the distance. A few distant cars passing by. A stray dog barking. The rustling of tree leaves. The sound of the wind whistling through the branches.
She tries to focus on what Lucile is doing and the sounds around her.
Lucile chants in a strange language. Whatever it is, she has it memorized down to the last syllable.
Her sharp claws slide out and she quickly slices her wrist. Maya's mouth drops open as she sees her girlfriend's Vitae drip onto the ground.
Lucile takes a bit of blood on the tip of her finger and slowly traces the ground. The circle immediately glows as it is closed off.
She then picks up the fallen drops of Vitae and does the same thing, drawing smaller circles within the larger one.
It's kinda like watching performance art, except there are small glyphs and runes appearing out of nowhere. Maya can't help but smile at the sight.
"It...looks pretty," she shyly remarks.
Lucile smiles, "It--it sure does, doesn't it."
"N--Not as pretty as you," Maya coyly says.
Lucile bites her lip and snickers, "Oh, Maya...you're so sweet."
Maya takes Lucile's hand and licks the cut on her wrist shut.
Lucile blushes just a bit, "Well, looks like we're done for tonight. Let's get outta here."
Maya eagerly nods, "Let's!"
Arman approaches the duo, "Is everyone going well, ladies?"
Lucile nods and says, "Yeah, I think so, Mr. Arman."
"Excellent. I guess this is goodnight, then?" He curtly bows and says, "Thank you both for joining us. It's been a pleasure. I look forward to getting to know you a bit more, Maya. May the night be ever so kind to the both you."
Lucile waves goodbye to Arman, "Thanks! And, may the night be kind to the Monarchs as well."
Maya nods in agreement.
Arman calls for his Ghoul, "Rolf, get the car."
"Ja."
The well-dressed Ghoul walks away.
Arman steps forward and asks, "Do you 2 need a ride?"
Lucile shakes her head, "Thank you, Mr. Arman. But, I already got one of my own."
"Ah, so YOURS is the red Camaro? A fine vehicle indeed. Very wise choice."
Dylan walks over to them. Arman groans as he sees the Thin-Blood approaching.
"Um...goodnight and welcome to the...family, I guess." He chuckles as his eyes dart around the room.
Maya replies, "Thanks, Dylan. I appreciate it. Since I'm new here, do you have any advice for me?"
Dylan thinks for a moment, "I--I really don't. I'm just a Thin-Blood. I don't have the strength that the rest of you do. I mean, I'm still trying to figure this whole...being a vampire thing out. I think I'm just kind of stuck between the 2 sides."
Arman scoffs, "Pfft. What a waste of potential. They often say that the thinning of the Blood is a sign of Gehenna."
Maya's eyes widen, "I--I didn't know that."
Lucile narrows her eyes, "Y--You don't really believe that, do you?"
Dylan is furious (at Arman).
Arman simply maintains his smug look and responds, "I'd have thought that a Tremere like yourself would believe in such things."
Lucile sheepishly replies, "It's...complicated."
Dylan who is visibly irritated, nods, "Yeah, it probably is. Goodnight, ladies."
He doesn't even acknowledge Arman as he walks out of the auditorium.
Maya bluntly asks Arman, "Y--You don't like Dylan or Thin-Bloods in general?"
Arman is caught off guard by Maya's question, "It's a matter of perspective, dear. Thin-Bloods are weak, and we do not take kindly to such weakness. It's simply matter of survival. We live or perish by the strength of our Blood."
Maya furrows her brow, "Well, from what Eleanor told me, a lotta Thin-Bloods can still walk out in the sun, they can eat and digest regular food, and their hearts still beat, sorta. It's just how the Blood flows through their veins, y'know? It's...different, I guess."
Arman waves his hand in dismissal and scoffs, "Not all sunshine and roses, Maya. Kindred physiology is far more...complex."
"I--I don't get it. Do you not like Thin-Bloods because they're...frail? I'm still pretty frail too, y'know."
Arman lowers his voice, "A Tremere like you shouldn't bring themselves down to the level of the...Duskborn. Tsk, tsk," he clicks his tongue and shakes his head.
Seeing that this conversation is going nowhere, Lucile clears her throat and simply says, "We have other places to be. Goodnight, Mr. Arman."
"Hmm. Goodnight."
Maya and Lucile wave goodbye to Arman as they leave the auditorium.
On their way out, they both pick up their phones and quickly turn them off.
Sheriff Eunice stands behind the duo and nods, "Good."
The 2 women are startled and see the Sheriff in their peripherals. They turn around and see Sheriff Eunice standing there, arms folded.
Eunice tilts her head and says, "Use it only when you have to. Same thing I tell my step-daughter."
Maya innocently asks, "Oh, y--you're married?"
"Was married. He died." The Sheriff doesn't seem too shaken up or disappointed by the fact.
Maya awkwardly chuckles, "Oh, s--sorry. I--I didn't--"
Eunice says, "Save it."
Lucile tries to comfort the Malkavian by putting her hand on the Sheriff's shoulder, but Eunice shoves it off.
Lucile awkwardly chuckles, "Well, um, we...all grieve in our own way, Sheriff Eunice."
"Hm."
Maya asks, "You got any advice for me, Sheriff Eunice?" The Tremere Fledgling genuinely wants to know.
Sheriff Eunice, without skipping a beat, bluntly and directly states, "I got a big sword in my trunk, don't make me use it."
Both Maya and Lucile involuntarily recoil a few steps back.
Eunice then asks, "You get a criminal record I should know about? Any outstanding arrest warrants?"
Maya is caught off guard by that question, "Oh, uh, I...well--"
The Sheriff steps forward right into Maya's face, "I'll check. You better hope it isn't a mile-long rap sheet. But you're a Kindred now, so you're held to...different standards. Hm. Well, be on your way then."
She turns to Lucile, "I hope the Chevy's doing fine. You better not do anything stupid with it."
Lucile smiles, "Y--Yeah, it's f--fine. Thanks, Sheriff Eunice."
"Hmph."
Maya tugs at Lucile's sleeve and the duo quickly walk away, "Goodnight, Sheriff Eunice."
"Goodnight."
Maya and Lucile step out the auditorium, tightly holding hands as they walk into the cold, starry night.
Maya lets out a heavy sigh, "Holy shit! S--She was scary! Y--You know her, right? Is she always like that?"
Lucile nods and replies, "Y--Yeah. I've been lucky enough to avoid running into her. For a Malkavian, she's pretty...intense."
Maya wipes the sweat from her forehead and replies, "That's one way of putting it. That was...an interesting night, huh?"
Lucile giggles, "Y--Yeah. You got to meet some of the more important Kindred here. It's a good start."
"Yeah! I--I just wanna meet the rest, too."
Lucile reassuringly says, "In time, sweetie. In time."
Lucile and Maya see Ginny, leaning against her car and smoking a cigarette. She's also speaking to Arman while Rolf waits inside his master's car.
The 2 vampires are close enough to hear some of what the other 2 are talking about.
Arman asks, "So, are you going to tell me where Jacob lives?"
Ginny exhales some smoke from her nostrils, "Nope."
Arman sighs, "I...have something that belongs to him. Something deeply important to him."
"Give it to me and I'll give it to him."
Arman shakes his head, "I would rather give it to him in person, and you know that."
He glances over to the pair and gives a quick smile and wave. Lucile and Maya wave back. Ginny simply waves with her hand.
"Why are you so interested in him anyway?"
"In all my time, I've never met a Kindred who somehow still manages to believe in...god"
Arman continues, "Jacob...intrigues me."
Ginny groans, "Ugh. Fine, I'll tell him to swing by your Haven tomorrow night to get his 'precious' crucifix back. He won't say no." Ginny turns and walks into her car.
Arman clears his throat.
Ginny rolls her eyes, "What now?"
"Are we still on...for our...?" He's trying not to give any hints within earshot of the other 2.
Ginny snickers and replies, "Yeah, sure." She shuts the door and tosses her cigarette near Arman's feet. The car peels out and Ginny drives off into the breezy night.
Arman simply stands there, smiling. He turns around and sees Maya and Lucile. He politely smiles and heads into his own car. The engine roars to life and he pulls out as well.
Maya and Lucile wave goodbye to Arman. They both are left standing there, holding hands, looking up at the stars.
Lucile takes Maya by the hand and says, "We should get going, too."
The red Camaro lights up and the headlights flash. Maya opens the passenger door and slides into the car.
Lucile gets in and drives away from the old, abandoned building.
Lucile is behind the wheel and Maya is in the passenger seat. They are driving down the road. Maya fiddles with the knobs of the radio and says, "Hey, uh, you mind if I put some music on?" She laughs.
Lucile turns her head to Maya and smiles, "Go ahead."
Maya turns the dial and the sound of "Don’t Cha" by The Pussycat Dolls comes blasting through the speakers. She smiles and turns it up just a bit.
Maya bops her head to the music and says, "Oh, I love this song!"
"Really? This is a pretty old song, isn't it?" Lucile gives her a sideways glance.
Maya mouths the lyrics, "Don't cha wish your girlfriend was hot like me?" She gives Lucile a suggestive look as she sings.
Lucile can't help but blush.
Maya then starts to sing, "Don't cha wish your girlfriend was a freak like me?"
Lucile sways from side to side and joins in, "Don't cha wish your girlfriend was raw like me?"
The 2 sing the next part together, "Don't cha wish your girlfriend was fun like me?"
Lucile giggles as Maya struggles with a few other lines of the song.
They both start laughing at the same time, "Well, I'm not that great at singing!" Maya laughs.
"Ah, c'mon. It's ok, Maya. I love your voice."
Maya gives Lucile a flirty smirk, "Yeah?"
Lucile smirks back, "Yeah." She squeezes Maya's hand and takes a left turn.
After a while, Lucile mumbles, "Driving out, to the place where we first--"
"Hmmmm?"
"Oh, it's nothing, sweetie. Just...thinking about stuff."
Maya asks, "Did I do well at the meeting tonight?"
"Yeah, I think you did, sweetie."
"I didn't screw up?"
"I don't think so. I mean, maybe that whole thing with Ginny saying that stuff, but other than that, I thought it went pretty well."
"Good. I--I really want to impress them. I want them to like me."
Lucile laughs, "You've got much more to offer than just, y'know, impressing them. You're so much more, Maya. So much more."
"Really?" Maya's eyes light up, "Y--You think so?"
Lucile smiles, "Yeah, sweetie. You're the most wonderful person I've ever met. I hope you realize that."
"Aww. Thank you." Maya blushes.
Maya then asks, "That Lasombra, Ginny. She's a bit of a--"
Lucile sneers, "Bitch?"
"M--Maybe. I dunno. But she was being pretty friendly with Arman."
"Hah, yeah. Yeah."
"Are they--"
Lucile bursts out in laughter and almost loses control of the car, "What? Sleeping together?"
Maya doesn't laugh, "I--I'm just curious. They seemed pretty close, I guess."
"Yeah, arguing like an old married couple. Hahaha!"
Maya doesn't laugh, "Do you think either of them like each other?"
Lucile shrugs, "It's best not to get up in their business, sweetie."
Maya sheepishly laughs, "Y--Yeah, I know. I was...just curious."
Lucile softly sighs, "Believe it or not, but a lotta Kindred got sex 'lives'. And not just Toreadors. Some of them more active than others. And spicier."
"Speaking of, did you know the Toreador Prince?"
"Who, Geoffrey? I met the guy a few times. Almost a decade ago. Sheesh, that long, huh." Lucile goes blank for a moment as she tries to remember what he looked like.
Lucile regains her composure, "Old guy. Not, like super old, but about mid- to late-40s, I'd say. Balding. Neatly trimmed beard. Kinda looked like a butler. Hahaha. He was...weird."
"Weird, how?"
"Y'know, Toreador weird. Maybe a bit more than usual. Stared at me for like a minute straight. I--It was kinda awkward."
"Wow. Yep, that sounds awkward."
"Yeah."
"And what about his vibe? What was he like?"
"Hmm. He was...nice, I guess? He had this, like, smile."
"A smile?"
"Yeah. Like a big, toothy, smile. His eyes, too..." Lucile's voice trails off as she tries to remember what his eyes looked like.
Lucile looks at Maya, "His eyes. Uh...sorta like yours. Same brown color."
Maya raises her eyebrows, "Oooh. Really? Haha, that's...cool." Maya squeezes Lucile's hand.
Lucile looks at Maya's eyes again and smiles, "Yeah...cool. So, are you all settled in?"
"S--Settled in? Oh, y--you mean our new Haven? Yeah, I'm excited. I just hope you won't mind having all my stuff cluttering up your place."
Lucile shrugs, "Well, I'm a Tremere, Maya. We're used to...clutter. Besides, I'd LOVE to have your stuff in my, no, our place."
Maya laughs, "Thanks for this, Lucile. I--I mean it. I really appreciate you and Eleanor helping me through this. I'd be lost without you."
Lucile looks at her and says, "Oh, sweetie, it's the least we could do. Now, where was your old place again?" Lucile pokes her head around and looks at the streets.
"O--Oh, it's on...oh, wait, yep, take a...right." Maya starts looking out the window for her old place.
"You sure you're ok, Maya?"
"Huh? Oh, yeah! Yeah. Just...been a while since I've seen my old place."
"Well, take it all in, Maya. It's the last time you'll see it."
"I--I'll try, haha."
"Good. That's the spirit!"
Lucile turns down the music and sees Maya's old apartment building. Given the direction the building faces (and the way the windows are shaped), it's hardly Haven material. The rays of the sun would likely obliterate anyone inside.
Lucile parks her car nearby. Maya gets out and looks up at her old place.
The walls are cracked. Mail meant for the other residents is piling up. A few of the lights are flickering. It's...not the greatest place.
"Y--Yeah, this was it." Maya tries not to get emotional.
Just then, a large pickup truck comes rolling in. Frank steps out. He looks over at the 2 Usurpers.
"Oh, uh, hey there, Frank!" Maya waves.
Frank waves back and approaches the pair, "So, this the place? Hope we're not too...late?"
Lucile smiles, "Just in time."
Frank rubs his hands together and says, "So, shall we?"
2 Ravnos jump out of the pickup truck. Keith and a woman dressed in biker leathers.
Keith walks over to Maya, "And, so we meet again." He smiles and shakes Lucile's hand.
Maya says, "Y'know, you gotta tell me more about this other Maya woman- the one who tried to stake you."
Keith chuckles, "Ah, she was...interesting."
"Oh? How so?"
Keith is a bit nervous, "She wasn't SI. She...was something else. Had that uh...beady-eyed look. Like a disturbed person, you know."
"Go on."
"Wavy black hair, red and blue outfit. Said she received a phone call one day and that changed how she saw the world. She was probably off her meds or somethin'."
Frank interjects, "We believe she was one of The Imbued."
Maya narrows her eye, "The what, now?"
The Ghoul replies, "Hunters. Not affiliated with anyone or anything, but...still a threat; they know what we are and are a lot more scarier than SI goons due to their...unpredictable intentions."
Keith continues, "Anyway, she kept trying to 'save me'." He does the air-quotes gesture.
Lucile asks, "By trying to destroy you?"
"Yep."
"How'd you stop her?"
"I was kinda outta the loop at the time. Just...got lucky, I guess."
Frank clears his throat, "Anyway, that's for another night. The sooner we're done, the sooner we can get back to our...nightlife."
Lucile sighs, "I guess."
"Right then."
The Ravnos woman approaches the duo. She stretches out her hand which is covered in a leather glove and introduces herself, "Kelly."
Kelly's jet-black hair is tied into a ponytail. Her face is long and pale. She's got a large scar going from her forehead across her face and down her cheek. She has a slightly muscular frame.
Lucile furrows her brow, "I've seen you someplace before, Kelly."
Kelly sways from side to side and smiles, "Mm-hmm."
Maya glances at Kelly, "Yeah, me too. B--But where?"
Kelly is about to say where when both Maya and Lucile look at each other and say in unison, "The Chicken Shack!"
The Daredevil nods, "Yeeep."
She then looks at Maya and says, "Yeah, thought one of you was gonna be my next meal."
Maya nervously chuckles, "Yeah, you...uh, kinda scared us that night."
Kelly replies, "Well, to be fair, I didn't know either of you were...Kindred. Thought you were just 2 mortals who took a wrong turn into the seedier parts of town."
Lucile says, "Yeah, well, just...be careful next time, Kelly. Diablerie is no joke."
Kelly cracks a quick smile and changes the subject, "Anyway, heard ya'll need some help moving?"
The 4 vampires and 1 Ghoul enter the elevator. It's old and creaky. Maya presses the button and the doors close.
It takes a while, but the elevator finally reaches its destination. They all step out.
Keith and Frank walk out first. Kelly beckons Maya and Lucile to go ahead.
Maya steps out and turns around and says, "Oh, and thanks for helping, Kelly!"
Kelly feels a chill up her spine, "Brrrr. Frank's right, the sooner we're done here, the better."
Lucile asks, "Everything OK, Kelly?"
"Yeah, yeah, just been a crazy night."
Maya looks under her mat where she always leaves a spare key just in case. She unlocks the door and they all enter the apartment. Maya proceeds to flick on a light switch.
Maya notices something strange about her old apartment building. Something...feels off. Is it because she feels things differently due to her Kindred nature?
No, that's not it.
It's the apartment itself. Something about it feels off, like a thin layer of shadowy mist is engulfing this space. It's not normal.
She shrugs and ignores it, "So, what's the plan, Frank?"
Frank is looking around, checking the rooms. He strokes his chin and asks, "Wow, so how much of this stuff ain't yours, then?"
"Uh, I guess...pretty much most of it. But I got the fridge last year."
"Right. Anyway, the plan is to load up the truck and bring everything to Lucile's Haven. Simple, right?"
Keith and Kelly nod.
Lucile looks at Maya and smiles, "Yep. Easy-peasy."
Maya walks over to her fridge and opens it. She peeks inside and finds some orange juice. She asks Frank, "Hey, uh...Frank? Would you like something to drink?"
"Um...sure, what do you got?"
"Orange juice ok?"
The Ghouls eyes light up just a bit, "I love OJ!" he excitedly replies.
Lucile looks over and says, "Well, me and Maya are gonna start packing the important stuff."
Keith and Kelly sit on the sofa. Kelly throws her head back and puts her feet on Maya's coffee table. Maya does nothing to object.
Kelly stretches her arms and legs and says, "Well, what exactly do you need us for? I mean, most of this stuff ain't even yours, right?"
Maya chuckles and says, "I know, but..."
"Yeah, but?"
Lucile approaches the pair, "If we need anything, we'll ask."
Kelly shrugs, "OK."
Keith grabs the TV remote, "Hey, Maya? You mind if I watch TV?"
Maya smiles, "N--No, not at all!"
Keith flips through the channels and settles for a news channel.
"And in other news today, the FBI has discovered the remains of 8 persons, all presumed to have been of the controversial McMahon family. A spokesperson for the FBI stated that they are not jumping to any conclusions about the incident just yet. In related news, the body of beloved local doctor, Tom Sandoval, was found in in an alleyway this morning, prompting widespread mourning across the community and a police investigation."
Keith groans and changes the channel to a cooking show.
Frank thanks Maya for the glass of OJ and leans against a wall as he brings the glass to his mouth, "Hmmmm. This is the stuff!"
Maya laughs, "Glad you like it."
She then says, "So me and Lucile are gonna go and start packing the important stuff."
Keith replies, "Just let us know if you need anything, ok?"
Kelly adds, "Don't take too long."
Lucile goes into Maya's room and starts looking around. She finds Maya's laptop and a charger. Maya comes in and sees that Lucile is already going through Maya's closet.
Maya scratches her arm, "I--It's not much, but, y'know."
Lucile pulls out a red sundress, "Oh, wow. I like this."
She picks up a few more dresses and compares them with each other.
Maya grabs some important-looking papers from a folder.
"I--I gotta read through all this, I guess."
Lucile shrugs, "What is it?"
"Rental agreement. I think the landlady owes me on my deposit."
Maya looks through the other papers and finds her degree certificate from Magnolia City Community College. She smiles to herself.
"Oh! This is mine." She holds up her certificate.
"Ooh, cool!"
"You should've seen my room back in MC3."
"MC3?"
"Magnolia City Community College. The nerds call it MC cubed, because you get one, two, three Cs."
"Haha. How was it there?"
Maya nods, "Eh, definitely a lot cheaper than the other options."
Maya pulls out a photo of herself in a graduation robe. She smiles and admires the picture.
"I--It's my college graduation photo. I got my Associate Degree in Communications."
Lucile smiles and says, "Awww, you look so adorable!"
Maya shyly chuckles and says, "I--I try to look nice for pictures, I guess."
Maya sighs, "It was years ago." She touches her face, "I look a lot different now, huh?"
Lucile looks at the picture and replies, "N--No, you don't. You're still...you."
Maya grins, "You think so?"
Lucile nods, "Y--Yeah. Yeah. As a matter of fact, you look sexier."
Maya turns to Lucile and laughs, "Haha, I--I do?"
Lucile bites her lip, "Mm-hmm. All nice and sexy." She playfully sways from side to side.
Maya walks up to Lucile and embraces her, "So, uh, whatcha wanna pack first?"
Lucile starts folding some of Maya's clothes and putting them in a large suitcase, "Well, I say clothes."
Maya looks at her girlfriend and smiles. She says, "I'll pack the important papers and stuff, OK?"
Lucile gently places another folded pant into the suitcase, "OK. Y'know, you got some great stuff here, Maya."
"Thanks! A lot of that stuff is actually from thrift stores." Maya sounds a little embarrassed to say this.
Lucile smiles, "Nothing to be ashamed of, sweetie. It's still great stuff!"
Maya then finds a picture of her and her ex, Teresa. Maya sighs, "Oh, here. I--I found this." She hands it to Lucile.
"Aww, this is nice, Maya. Teresa, right?"
Maya is staring at the picture and smiles, "Yeah."
Lucile puts the photo down and turns to Maya, "Oh, don't worry. She probably found someone else. You had to move on at some point."
Maya nods and softly says, "Yeah."
"Don't dwell on the past, sweetie. I mean, think about how much the future holds. For you. For us. There's so much more ahead."
Maya says, "Y--Yeah. Yeah. There is, isn't there?" She sighs, "But I still wonder how she's doing. I--I'm sorry, Lucile, it's just--"
Lucile hugs Maya and kisses her forehead, "Shhhhh. It's ok, Maya." She strokes Maya's head and Maya falls into Lucile's embrace.
Lucile continues, "Yeah, I know what first love feels like, Maya."
Maya sniffles, "Yeah? I--I know. You got me, didn't you?"
"Oh, my sweet poinsettia."
Maya asks, "You got any pics of that Malkavian...you used to see?"
Lucile sighs, "I dunno, Maya. I try not to think about that too much, I mean, she was great and all, but it ended badly."
"Yeah, I'm really sorry about that. Diablerie is bad news."
"It's no joke, no wonder the Camarilla clamps down on it."
"Yeah, I bet."
Maya looks at her girlfriend, "We...should really finish packing. Wouldn't wanna keep those Ravnos waiting."
"I know. I just want to spend a few more moments in here. This is the last time we'll be here, Maya. I...just wanna remember it."
Maya softly groans, "T--This is where we first made love, right?"
Lucile nods, "Made love. Hehe. Yep. It was amazing, wasn't it?" She playfully kisses Maya's forehead.
Maya giggles and nods, "Oh, yes. It was so...amazing. I--" Maya is at a loss for words. She can't describe how good that night felt. She just smiles.
She's reliving the moment in her head. The sensations, the way Lucile looked at her. Her skin felt so cold, but it was so soft and smooth. She remembered Lucile's fingers gently touching her.
She remembered the way Lucile's eyes lit up that night.
After about half-an-hour or so, the duo are done shoving most of Maya's things into suitcases.
The pile of clothes and other stuff is getting bigger by the minute. Maya's closet is nearly empty.
Just a few odds and ends here and there. Maya grabs a big, beige tote bag and places all her important papers in there. She places it by her bed and sits down on it.
Lucile comes back in and looks at Maya.
She then sits next to Maya as they both stare off into the partially cracked ceiling.
Lucile says, "I already have a fridge, y'know. I uh...don't have place for another one."
Maya locks fingers with Lucile, "I was actually thinking of selling it. Maybe to Frank? What do you think?"
"He might buy it? How much did you get it for, anyway? It looks kinda fancy."
"Eh, $400."
"Wow, that's a pretty sweet deal."
"Yep."
The 2 spend the next few moments in silence, staring off into the ceiling. The sounds of the outside world are muffled here, almost like being in a padded room.
The sounds of the outside world just barely seeping into Maya's mind.
Maya eventually gets up and turns her phone back on. She facepalms, "Oh, damnit!"
"Huh? What's wrong?" Lucile springs up to Maya.
"I--I forgot that I promised to meet my boss, Edgar." She sighs, "Damnit!"
Lucile puts her hand on Maya's back and rubs it, "Oh, hey. Hey! It's ok. Don't worry about it. You go on and finish it, I'll stay back and make sure nothing goes missing." She winks.
Maya is at a loss for words, "I--I dunno. What if..." she thinks to herself for a moment, "W--Well, actually, you're right."
Maya quickly taps on her phone, asking Edgar to meet her at a small ice cream parlor nearby. She sends the text.
Maya says, "I just wanna get this over with. See if I still have a job at Nimbus, wh--which is doubtful."
"Alright then, Maya. I'll stay back here and make sure nothing gets lost. Just promise me that you won't breach the Masquerade. Edgar's a mortal, so watch your step."
Maya laughs, "Yeah, yeah, I know. I'll be careful."
She looks around, "I--I think I got everything I need, though."
Frank knocks on Maya's bedroom door, "Hey, fridge just finished draining. So, I'm gonna have Keith and Kelly load it up. Is that OK?"
"Actually, Frank," Maya turns to the Ghoul and asks, "I'd like to get rid of the fridge. You interested?"
Frank scratches his chin, "Uh, I mean, sure, but, how much do you want for it?"
Maya responds, "Well, 400 bucks?"
The Ghoul laughs, "Oh, th--that's a bit much, Maya. $200."
Maya raises her eyebrows, "200?! It's brand new. 350."
"300. Final offer."
Maya looks at Lucile, who nods back to her. Maya agrees, "Fine. $300."
Frank pulls a fat wad of cash out of his pocket, "Sounds good to me!" He licks his finger, counts the cash, and hands Maya 2 crispy $100 bills. He also hands her slightly torn 20s.
"Wh--WHOA! Th--Thank you, Frank!" She carefully tucks the money in her pocket.
"Pleasure doing business with you." He politely nods and heads out.
Maya kisses Lucile on the cheek and heads over to the bathroom. She looks in the mirror.
She fluffs her hair and touches up her face. She looks at herself for a long moment and sighs.
She says she'll be back soon and heads out to see her old boss, Edgar.
After about 5 minutes, Maya arrives at the ice cream parlor. Edgar is already inside. She opens the door and the bell rings. Edgar turns around and sees her.
"Maya!" Edgar greets her warmly, "I was starting to worry, thought you weren't going to make it." He laughs and the pair hug.
He asks, "It's...been a while, hasn't it. Are--are you doing OK?"
Maya has a disappointed look on her face. She feels responsible for letting the magazine go to shit. Edgar just smiles.
He takes a quick scan of Maya's face and notices a little bit of discoloration around her neck and throat.
He beckons to her outfit, "Going somewhere this late at night?"
Maya takes her seat and nervously responds, "N--No, just uh, a, you know, 'little something' I gotta take care of. Before the night ends." She laughs.
Edgar is looking out the window and sees that the moon is still fairly visible.
"Mmm. Well, alright. Anyway, how's it going?" He takes a spoon of ice cream and eats it.
Maya nods, "Well, uh, it's...been tough."
"I assume you've spoken to Annette--"
Maya angrily cuts him off, "I want nothing to do with her, Edgar. NOTHING! Not after what happened between us."
Edgar puts up his hands in defense, "Alright, alright. Although, I think it's fair that you know that she was in the hospital after she rammed her car into our building."
Maya is taken aback, "Wh--What? W--Why?!"
Edgar sighs as he asks a server to come over, "Probably has to do with the fact that we're finally selling."
"You found a buyer? But--"
"It's already done, Maya. Some Silicon Valley hotshot named Camden Cross. I think you've heard of him."
Maya shrugs, "Yeah, I think. Maybe. I dunno. I--I just want to move on."
The server comes over and his jaw hangs open. He seems to recognize Maya. Maya doesn't recognize the server.
The server says, "Holy shit! You're that redhead chick from that video everyone's--"
Edgar silences the server by raising his hand. He growls, "I'll give you 40 bucks to shut up." He slips the cash to him.
"60."
Edgar growls again, "50 bucks." The server quietly sighs and pockets the cash.
The server takes the orders and Edgar asks, "Would you like anything to eat, Maya? I know you love salted caramel."
For obvious reasons, Maya politely declines, "N--No, thank you, Edgar. I'm OK."
Edgar smiles, "OK. I'll have 2 scoops of butterscotch and 2 scoops of pistachio- to go, please."
"Y--Yes sir. Coming right up."
Maya smiles, "Butterscotch and pistachio. Heh, how are the kids, Edgar?"
He smiles back, "Doing OK, although they've not been doing too well at school lately."
"Awwww, what happened?"
"Something about their favorite teacher, Ms. Clark, who was found on the side of the road a few weeks back."
Edgar lowers his voice and continues, "They're saying it was exsanguination, Maya. God only knows how true that is. They're pretty shaken up about it."
Maya twitches in her seat a bit, "Oh, th--that's awful. I'm so sorry, Edgar."
Edgar sighs, "Anyway, this Camden Cross guy..."
Maya rolls her eyes, "Ugh, yeah. I think I've seen some of his stuff online. Some startup named...Ensure?"
"Yep, that's the one."
"What would someone like him want with Nimbus?"
Edgar shrugs, "Don't know, but the board's ready to sell to him."
Maya is deep in thought for a while and then asks, "So, will I still...have a job once the sale is done?"
Edgar breathes out a deep sigh, "It's...not that simple, Maya. He's already demanding a 40% reduction of staff. 'Cutting the fat.' His words, Maya, NOT mine."
Maya gulps, "C--Cutting the fat? What does that--"
The server brings over Edgar's order and Edgar hands him the cash. He grimaces as he walks away.
Edgar quickly tucks the change away into his front pocket and says, "You know I'd never speak of the people at Nimbus in that way. We're a family, Maya."
Maya snidely remarks, "We were a family, Edgar."
"Well, let's try to make the best of it. I--I'm sorry, but--"
Maya sighs, "What choice do we have, Edgar? I opened my mouth an--and screwed everything up. People in this town ain't gonna look at me the same way, y'know."
Edgar thinks for a moment and asks, "Why did you open your mouth in the first place?"
Maya twiddles her fingers, "I--I was just tired of being disrespected and put down for having...an opinion."
Edgar takes a spoonful of his ice cream and says, "Well, do you actually believe in that vampire stuff, Maya?"
Maya bites her tongue and thinks about how to answer him without outing herself. She says, "I've had time to...reassess some of my beliefs. I--"
"Hmm. Well, you're hardly the first person in town to ask about vampires. Had an FBI agent by the name of, what was it..." Edgar tries to recall the name, "Higgins, yeah. He was pretty pushy."
Maya tries to maintain her composure when she hears that the FBI is interested in speaking with her, "What did he want?"
Edgar takes another bite of his ice cream, "Wanted your address and contact info. I told him to come back with a warrant."
Maya snickers, "What did he say?"
"He said that he just wanted to ask you a few questions about what was said about you in...that video."
Maya scoffs. She then says, "Well, uh...thanks for not giving it out, Edgar."
Edgar smiles, "Of course."
He says, "Speaking of, you've heard what happened to the McMahons, right?"
Maya flatly says, "I'm not shedding any tears over those bigoted assholes. You know how hard life's been in this town thanks to their...obsession with people like me?!"
"Yeah. I've always known you're not a fan of them, Maya, but..."
Maya interjects, "But what?! No company and no organization in this town would hire me j--just because I'm attracted to women. That holier-than-thou clown William McMahon started all that hate. He and that shit-eating cousin of his, Mayor Duncan!"
Maya bangs on the table and lets out a heavy sigh.
Edgar calms her down, "But Nimbus took a chance on you, Maya. We took you in and made you the person you are today."
Maya glares at Edgar and grumbles, "That's 'cause you were short-staffed back then." She crosses her arms. She looks around and sees that there's nobody within earshot.
She lowers her voice, "You know how much shit I had to put up with ever since I came back to this town? I couldn't even find a fucking place to rent cause the landlords would call me names or ask if I had a hu--" She stops herself from saying anything else.
She thinks to herself. She sighs. She's still angry. But she's also scared. She wasn't ready to bring this all up after so many years.
Edgar's a good man, though. More or less. Maya's mind is racing.
Edgar places his hand on her shoulder, "It's alright, Maya. Just...take it easy, OK?"
Maya says, "I--I will, Edgar." She stares out the window. The moon glows. She says, "I--I guess I gotta find another job, huh?"
Edgar pensively nods, "It looks that way. But I am willing to write you a recommendation, Maya." He smiles. He knows she does.
It's a no brainer at this point. He's always tried his best to look out for Maya.
Only because she looked after his kids when he wasn't around or was too sick. It's always been a bit of a thankless job, but he's never had a problem with it. His wife doesn't have a problem with it, either.
Edgar's 2 kids loved Maya like a fun aunty. Maya's always been so kind and gentle. She never pushed them to do anything they didn't want to do and always made their time together a memorable one.
Edgar says, "You were there for me and my family when no one else was. Y'know, the kids have been asking about 'aunty Maya' recently."
Maya's eyes light up, "T--Tell 'em I said hi. I remember when your oldest wanted a lock of my hair and you--" she stops herself and quickly finishes, "s--said no, but I gave her a bit, anyways."
Edgar laughs, "Oh yeah, she still has it in a Ziploc bag in her room. And I remember when my son called you 'The Big Red Maya' and I laughed for an hour straight."
Maya smirks, "Heh, those were the days, huh? They grow up so fast, don't they?"
Edgar responds, "They sure do, Maya. They sure do."
Maya nods, "I--I guess this is goodbye, then?"
Edgar shakes Maya's hand and says, "Whoa! Your...uh hand's a bit cold, Maya." He chuckles.
Maya nervously laughs and goes in for a hug. She tightly hugs Edgar and says, "Th--thank you so much, Edgar. For everything. I--I'm gonna miss you. I'm gonna miss Nimbus." Her voice shakes a bit.
Edgar smiles and says, "Don't sweat it, Maya. You're a bright and talented woman. You'll find your way."
He squeezes her shoulder and says, "If you need any help, don't hesitate to give me a call."
Maya smiles and says, "I...uh met someone, Edgar."
"I'm glad to hear that, Maya. I hope she treats you well."
Maya blushes and says, "Oh, she does. She treats me real good, Edgar. I--I never thought I'd--I'd--"
Maya sighs, "It's a long story, Edgar."
Edgar strokes her hair and says, "You've got your whole life ahead of you, Maya. I'm sure your partner will be a part of it."
Maya feels the slightest bit of relief from Edgar's reassurance. She hugs him again and thanks him for everything.
She says, "I'll be going now. G--Goodnight, Edgar. And say hi to the family for me."
Edgar smiles, "Yeah, OK. Goodnight, Maya. And remember, if you need anything, anything at all, just lemme know, ok?"
"I'll keep that in mind, Edgar." Maya smiles as she waves goodbye to her old boss. Edgar smiles and waves back.
The bell dings as Maya pushes the door open. It's cold outside. She heads back to her old apartment.
Eleanor is in the hallway, arguing with the landlady. Maya immediately rushes over.
The landlady, an angry-looking woman in her 60s, is shouting at Eleanor. The 2 turn around and see Maya.
Eleanor looks as calm as ever, "Hello, Maya. Would you kindly talk some sense into this...person?"
The landlady huffs, "Look, she's already behind on her rent and the noise you're making is fucking unbelievable--"
Maya interrupts, "We're moving out. Tonight. This instant."
The landlady snarls at Maya, "What?! Who does this kind of thing at night?!"
Maya takes a step back and almost trips over when she sees her landlord's plaque-ridden teeth.
The landlady scoffs, "Ya can't just up and move whenever you feel like it, dummy! Also, where the fuck's my goddamn rent?! You said you'd pay it soon, ya dumb broad!"
Maya stutters, "W--Well, something c--came up. I--"
Eleanor interjects by using her Dominate Discipline. The Elder Tremere places her frail-looking hands on the landlady's shoulders and looks directly into her dark blue eyes.
Her voice deepens as she commands, "Listen to me, you fiend. You WILL waive the rent. And you WILL return Maya's deposit in full. Moreover, you WILL ignore all the noise and give us no more trouble."
Eleanor's words are as cold as ice. The landlady is paralyzed for a brief moment. She then stammers and slowly nods, "I...will."
Maya adds, "A--Also, tell her to go and fuck herself!"
Eleanor doesn't oblige Maya's request, she simply says, "Go and have a little lie down, now. We will be gone shortly. You never saw us and we NEVER had this conversation."
The landlady slowly shuffles away, muttering something under her breath. She turns the corner and disappears.
Maya smiles and laughs, "H--Ho--Holy shit, Eleanor! That was so AWESOME!"
Eleanor looks at her and says, "Do not think too much of it, Childe." She walks past Maya and back into the apartment.
The Elder continues, "I did it for the Masquerade."
Maya gulps, "Y--Yes. But, thanks, anyways."
Eleanor looks around Maya's apartment, "The furnishings seem adequate, but Lucile was right, this is no Haven."
She points to the large windows, "The sun would likely destroy anyone unfortunate enough to be caught inside and the bathtub is hardly an option for day-sleep."
"I know. I think I'm ready to move on from this place. I--" She sees Lucile holding a suitcase, "Lucile! Where are the other ones?"
Lucile smiles, "Frank and the others have got it, don't worry, sweetie. I locked it up."
Maya hugs Lucile and kisses her lips. Maya turns around and says, "You should've seen Eleanor there! She was like, 'you WILL go and have a little lie down' and the landlady just nodded and walked off!"
Lucile chuckles, "That's Dominate for ya. Making mortals do our bidding."
Maya says, "Well, she was a nasty old bitch. Refused to fix the place up when something broke and increased the rent when she felt like it."
Eleanor says, "Dominate is not a Discipline to be taken lightly, Childe."
Lucile replies, "Well, I mean, I know that, but it's kinda cool, y'know."
"Hmm. I shall wait for you 2 downstairs. The other 2 Ravnos have already left for your Haven, Lucile. Frank is waiting downstairs."
Maya nods, "OK. We won't be long. Just give us a moment."
Eleanor nods and turns away. She heads down the stairs and waits for her Childer.
Maya and Lucile look around one last time. They're all packed. Maya's clothes, her personal belongings, important documents, and anything else she owns.
Lucile looks around and pulls Maya in for an embrace. They hold each other tightly and look deeply into each other's eyes.
Maya's hands slowly go down Lucile's back and settle on her hips. Lucile's hand slowly goes up Maya's back and settles on her hair. She gently strokes it.
Lucile asks, "So, how'd it go with your boss? You still got a job or--"
Maya sniffs, "N--no. It was all for nothing." She buries her head in Lucile's shoulder.
"W--What?"
Tears of blood roll down Maya's eyes, "Th--They're selling Nimbus."
Lucile holds Maya close and sways from side to side, "Oh, sweetie...I--I don't know what to say."
"I...I gave that place the best years of my life..."
Lucile softly shushes her, "Hush, my poinsettia. Shhhhh."
Maya sniffles, "I--I'm sorry, Lucile. I'm sorry. It's...just that they took me in when I had n--nothing and made me who I am today. And now, I'm just...back to--"
Lucile kisses Maya's forehead, "Shhhhh. Shhhhh. You're not going anywhere, Maya. I'm here for you. I'll always be here for you."
Maya sniffles, "I--I know, Lucile. B--But what about your courier job?"
Lucile shakes her head, "It won't be for another few nights."
Maya sniffles, "I dunno. I--I'm just scared, Lucile. I'm scared of--of failure."
She sniffles again. "I don't want to lose you. N--Not when I just found you."
Lucile gently strokes Maya's hair, "You'll never lose me, Maya. And I won't ever let go of you, no matter how far apart we are."
Maya cries, "I--I love you, Lucile."
Lucile kisses Maya, "I love you, too, Maya."
Lucile wipes the tears of blood from Maya's face and says, "Get yourself cleaned up and we'll go down, OK?"
Maya nods, "O--OK." She goes into the bathroom, wipes the blood off her face and blows her nose (even the snot is blood!).
She splashes some water on her face and then says, "Uh, Lucile?"
"Hmmm?"
"I'd like to take a picture with you before we leave."
Lucile smiles, "Sure!"
She comes into Maya's bedroom and the 2 embrace. Maya takes out her phone and tries to get the best angle.
Maya says, "OK, I think I got it." She snaps the pic and it turns out to be pretty good. Maya smiles. She's happy. So is Lucile.
Lucile says, "Nice! Lemme get another one!" She pulls out her own phone.
This time, the faces are a bit goofy, but they're both smiling. Maya's got her arm around Lucile and Lucile's got her arm around Maya. They're both laughing.
Maya and Lucile take one final look around the apartment. Maya heaves a sigh of relief, "Y'know, I'm not gonna miss this place too much."
"Yeah."
"Let's go." Maya locks the front door and tosses the keys on the doormat. She smirks as she heads downstairs, holding Lucile's hand.
The 2 vampires see their Sire patiently waiting by the SUV. Frank leans against a wall and scrolls through his phone.
Eleanor looks at the pair and says, "Good. I was starting to get worried. Shall we?"
Frank approaches Maya, "Uh...Maya? Lucile tells me you own a scooter? A uh...Vespa? Is that correct?"
"Yep, um...why?"
A slight smirk forms upon the Ghoul's face, "Well, I happen to be a mechanic. Y'know, gotta keep our engines running or else..." he nervously chuckles.
Maya replies, "Yeah, it's down in the basement parking lot. I'll show you where it is."
"Great! Thanks, Maya." Frank follows Maya and Lucile follows Frank. Eleanor sighs and stays outside.
Maya presses "-1" on the elevator and it creaks and croaks its way down.
The elevator reaches the bottom and the doors slide open. Frank is surprised to see the basement.
It's quite spacious and well-lit. Colored pipes and wires run along the walls and ceilings. The walls are painted white.
Frank is looking around and says, "Wow, this is...nice, compared to the rest of the place."
Maya snickers, "Yeah, they did the place up a week ago."
"Huh. This is a lot nicer than the garage I usually work out of. So, which one's yours?"
Maya pulls off the dusty cover of a nearby bike rack and points to her Vespa.
Some of the dust particles hit Frank and he sneezes. He groans, "Gah! Damnit!" He wipes his nose and sneezes again.
"S--Sorry."
Frank then whistles, "It's OK. That's a...nice model. Whoa." His jaw hangs open.
Maya proudly says, "Yeah, I got it at a garage sale for like...300 bucks. The owner wanted to get rid of it fast, I guess. Heh."
Franks' eyes widen, "Y--You paid $300 for this?!"
"Yeah, why, was it too much?"
He bites his lip and remarks, "You practically stole it, Maya! This thing's worth at least 5 times that."
Maya laughs, "Well, I guess it's a good thing I'm moving, then."
Frank asks, "You wanna sell this, too? She's a beauty, Maya. A one-of-a-kind, if I'm being honest."
Maya shuffles her feet, "Well, uh, I'm not actually sure--"
Frank's eyes light up, "Listen, I'll fix it up for you."
Maya's eyes light up, too, "R--Really? How much would it cost? I haven't taken it out in months, so it's probably not in the best shape."
Frank thinks for a moment and says, "On the house. I'll even throw in a fresh coat of paint." He runs his finger across the bike's body.
Maya smiles, "A--Are you sure? I--I mean, I could pay you something."
"Nah, I'm serious. I'd LOVE to work on something like this. Ya get bored seeing nothing but Harleys and 80s muscle cars all day and night."
Maya smiles, "Well, thank you, Frank. Th--That's really nice of you."
Frank scratches his head, "Uh, well, what color do you want for the paint? I don't have mint green back at the garage."
Maya looks at Lucile's green eyes, smiles, and says, "You have regular green, right?"
Frank nods, "Yep. I do."
"Then, yeah. Regular green."
Frank smiles, "Great. I'll get her loaded up and take her back to the garage. You can pick her up tomorrow night."
"Whoa! OK. Thanks, Frank!"
Frank grabs the Vespa and moves it to his pickup truck. Maya and Lucile share a smile.
Maya asks, "You sure you're gonna be OK with that thing?"
Frank nods, "Oh, yeah. I've done this a thousand times. I got a small garage close to the town. It's a bit far from here, but it's a good place to work on bikes and other vehicles."
Maya says, "Well, uh, thanks again, Frank. For everything. I mean it."
Frank waves goodbye, "No problem, Maya. I'll see you later. Have a good night!"
Frank leaves and Maya and Lucile are alone in the basement.
Lucile asks, "So, 'regular green', huh? Did you pick that based off my eye color?"
Maya smirks, "Mm-hmm. I think it'll look nice."
Lucile kisses Maya's cheek, "I think so, too. You promise to gimme a ride when it's all ready?"
"Promise."
Maya and Lucile head back upstairs. Eleanor is simply looking at the sky, deep in thought.
She turns around and sees the pair. She says, "Good. Let us depart."
Maya and Lucile ask Eleanor about that wooden box and the knife inside it.
The Elder Tremere replies, "I have entrusted it with another Tremere."
"Oh, cool," remarks Maya. She then asks, "But, I thought they were busy with their...Proving."
"Not this particular one, no, she is of a different House- House Goratrix."
Maya says, "Oh, OK. But I thought it was just us in this town, The Children of the Pyramid."
Eleanor continues, "She will guard the box and the blade until I have ensured that it is safe to keep at the House Of Hermes."
Lucile nods, "Ah, it's Nolene, isn't it?"
Maya asks, "So, who is she, then? Can I meet her? I wanna meet other Tremere in this town. I know I can't meet someone from within our um...House, but..."
Eleanor responds, "Yes, I believe it would be good if you were to meet her. Even though she is not of our particular Society, I believe she would make a fine...tutor for you, Maya."
Lucile adds, "Yeah, she seems like a good person. She runs an occult shop downtown. I've been there a few times. I think she's got some really cool stuff!"
Maya says, "That sounds...cool, I guess. Like, what, tarot cards, magic crystals, and stuff like that?"
Lucile laughs, "I haven't been there for a while, but yeah, she had that stuff the last time I was there."
Maya asks, "So does any of that stuff actually work? Now that I'm Tremere does that mean I can do REAL magic now?"
Eleanor shakes her head, "These things are not toys and games, Maya. It is a tool, a weapon, a way to bend reality to your will. It is not to be used frivolously."
Lucile says, "Yeah, I know. You can't just use it for anything you want. It has to be for a purpose. A good purpose. Preferably."
Maya nods, "Yeah, I--I understand. I'm not gonna go around using it for anything I want. I mean, I'm still figuring out this whole thing. I dunno how I'm gonna handle it, y'know?"
Lucile says, "Yeah, I've been there. It's a rocky road at first, but I'm sure you'll get the hang of it."
Eleanor says, "You will need to learn to control your emotions, Childe. That is often the first step to master the art of Blood Sorcery."
Maya narrows her eyes, "I...uh, chose Auspex as my Discipline."
Eleanor raises an eyebrow, "Oh? You have chosen Auspex? I clearly recall that you chose Blood Sorcery, just like Lucile."
Lucile cocks her head, "Uh, Eleanor...Maya chose Auspex as her Discipline. You were there, remember?"
Eleanor seems to be getting a bit agitated, "NO. I remember Maya choosing Blood Sorcery as her Discipline to specialize in. Do not talk rubbish, Childe."
Maya gulps and says, "E--Eleanor. Are you OK? I--I didn't mean to--"
Eleanor interjects, "I am fine. Now, come. We must leave at once." She says nothing as she enters her SUV and tells Laszlo, "Drive!"
The SUV's engines rev loudly and the car starts moving. Eleanor sits in silence, looking out the window.
Lucile looks at Maya and says, "Whoa. You, uh...OK? Weird." She shakes her head. She's wondering if something's going on. Something she doesn't know about.
Maya whispers, "I--I'm sorry. Did I say or do something? Did she forget to...feed or something."
Lucile sighs, "Actually, she's been forgetting more and more these nights. I've been having to remind her of basic things these past few weeks. She's...I don't know what to tell you, Maya."
"But how is that even possible? Kindred can't deteriorate, like mortals do."
Lucile shrugs, "Well, she IS an Elder Tremere, well over 300 years old. That and she was Embraced at a very old age."
Maya asks, "How old is she, like in terms of mortal years?"
Lucile thinks for a moment and says, "She told me that she was 70-something when she got Embraced. Heh, maybe she forgot to add a decade...or two."
Maya lowers her head, "Damn, that's...kinda messed up. Did she even give her consent for her own Embrace?"
Lucile thinks and replies, "I really don't know, but I doubt it. Kindred did things differently back in the ye olde days, heh." She nervously chuckles in an attempt to lighten up the mood.
Maya says, "Maybe I can talk to her, y'know, get her to open up?" She looks at Lucile.
"I--I dunno. It's probably worth a try, but if you do it, make sure you don't push her too far, OK? She's a VERY powerful Elder. Don't let the 'sweet old lady' look fool you, Maya."
Maya smiles, "Of course. I know how to be gentle." She winks.
The 2 vampires get in the Camaro and get ready for the drive back to their new Haven.
Maya turns the knob on the car's radio and turns to a jazz station. The 2 Usurpers listen to the radio and move their heads to the sound of the music.
They listen to the music for a while and then Lucile says, "Hey, quick question. If you, uh...don't mind."
"Sure."
"You mentioned that Nimbus took you in when you had nothing and made you the person you are today. What happened, Maya? And how did you end up like that?"
Maya thinks to herself for a while. She looks at Lucile and sighs, "Well, it's a pretty long story."
"We got time, sweetie."
Maya shrugs, "Well, like I said, I left town to pursue my higher education at Magnolia City Community College. Then, of course, I returned back to Plaintry. Magnolia City was great and all, but the big city just wasn't for me, y'know?"
"Oh, yeah, totally."
"So, I come back, and find out that the goddamn fucking McMahon family had started taking over the place. I used to read stories about how they were trying to get this or that crazy thing done."
"What kind of crazy stuff?"
Maya is dumbfounded, "Y--You've lived in this town for a decade and you haven't heard of them?"
Lucile shakes her head, "Well, in my defense, I was mostly in my Haven studying every single thing about Blood Sorcery. Eleanor was quite insistent that there be no outside distractions."
Maya says, "Well, they started off with trying to prevent people like me from getting a job or renting a place."
Lucile raises her eyebrow, "Whoa, what?"
"Yeah, like I said, they were the absolute worst. So, you'd excuse me if I don't shed any tears over their death. You know how hard it was just to find a goddamn place to rent? I was ready to pay, but they--they kept asking me weird questions, like why I was so short on cash. Why I couldn't afford a car. Why I didn't have a car. Why my hair was red. Where my husband or father was."
"That's bullshit."
Maya laughs, "You think THAT was bad, you should've seen the job interviews- some asshole had the audacity to ask me if I was a virgin and my hymen was intact. A--As if!" She rolls her eyes.
She continues, "I was born this way, y'know? I can't help that I am who I am!"
Lucile smiles, "I know, Maya. It sucks. I never understood why people would judge others like that."
"Yeah. It's really fucking stupid, actually. I did a little digging of my own and found the fingerprints of the Mc-fucking-Mahons on everything. They were a part of everything in this town, including the town's newspaper and radio."
Lucile says, "Well, they can't hurt anyone now, can they?"
Maya shakes her head, "That's the thing, they weren't just random nutjobs picketing funerals, they were obscenely rich. Not like, 'oh, I got 100 bucks for a protest' rich, but 'I'm worth a small country' rich. Like, William McMahon had a goddamn yacht for fuck's sake."
"Holy shit."
"Yeah, it's sickening. Now, of course, I'm not entirely callous. On some human level, I feel sorry for them. Nobody, no matter how cruel or twisted, should die like that."
"Yeah, I hear you. How does a whole mansion full of people turn to ash? I heard Keith and Kelly saying the traffic on the night of the fire was so dense, the fire trucks had a hell of a time getting through."
Maya replies, "Whoa, really? You think it was...intentional?"
Lucile shrugs, "Judging by what you said, it wouldn't surprise me if someone..." She lowers her voice, "...took matters into their own hands."
Maya's eyes widen, "You think someone killed them? That would explain the Feds crawling all over the place."
"Well, the family were pretty extreme, so it's kinda plausible."
Maya says, "But, no. The most I and a few others ever did was sign letters and stuff like that. Nothing this...drastic."
"Yeah, but I dunno, something just doesn't seem right."
Maya bluntly asks, "You think a Kindred could've done this?"
Yikes.
Lucile's foot slightly trembles as she lifts it off the gas pedal. She looks at Maya and says, "I mean, maybe? It's certainly a possibility. A wild possibility, but a possibility nonetheless."
"I--I see. Should we tell Prince Lucas our theory?"
"Whoa, slow down, sugar. We don't even know IF it was arson. And IF we do talk to him about it, I think we should bring evidence, y'know, something solid and tangible. Not just vibes and hearsay."
Maya chuckles, "I hear ya, sugar."
The rest of the drive is spent in silence or lighthearted conversations.
Back at the cottage...
The car pulls up and Lucile is genuinely surprised to see Prince Lucas standing outside. He appears to be admiring the poinsettia bushes.
Lucile's eyes widen and she quickly parks. Maya gets out of the car, smiling and waving at the Prince.
Lucile joins Maya outside and they see Eleanor's SUV parked not too far from them. The Elder Tremere is nowhere in sight.
Lucile whispers, "Uh, where's Eleanor?"
Prince Lucas waves, "Oh, she said she had to take care of something in your...backyard. Might I add that this is quite a...lovely Haven you have here."
Lucile replies, "Oh, well, thank you."
Maya looks at the Prince and asks, "So, uh, how'd your...thing go?"
The Prince looks a bit frustrated, but also relieved (somewhat). He replies, "It could've been worse, all things considered."
Maya asks, "What was it, if you don't mind me asking?"
Prince Lucas takes a deep breath and says, "There was a...scuffle in a bar. A few of my people got into a fight with a few federal agents. Some of my people even used their Disciplines, but it was...not entirely successful. It caused a bit of a ruckus, but the matter has been resolved." He says that last part in an uncertain manner.
Maya nods, "Oh. That's...crazy. Were there any violations of the Masquerade?"
Lucile twitches a bit.
The Prince smiles, "Good to see the Fledgling is taking her lessons to heart."
Maya blushes and says, "Th--Thank you. I'm still trying to learn the ropes, so to speak. Y'know, learning as I go along."
He continues, "Nothing that you should concern yourself with. Your Prince has this under control," he says as he glances from side to side, avoiding eye contact with the 2 Tremere.
Eleanor appears from behind some bushes. She curtly nods to the Prince and then approaches Maya and Lucile.
She asks, "Prince Lucas. Would you like to come in?"
The Prince declines, "Actually, I'm here to speak to Lucile. Alone." He looks directly at Lucile. She gulps.
Maya asks, "Alone?"
The Prince raises an eyebrow, "Indeed. We have an important matter to discuss. Lucile, shall we?" He walks away from the cottage. Lucile follows.
Maya stands by the car and watches them.
Lucile clears her throat as she leans against a tree. The Prince leans against another tree, opposite of Lucile.
She asks, "So, what is it that you want to talk about, Prince Lucas?" She hopes it's not what she thinks it is.
She still wants a night or 2 to spend with Maya, to get to know her better and be there for her during this delicate period of transition.
Prince Lucas gets to the point and says, "You will be leaving tomorrow night to begin your new...job."
Lucile is taken aback, "B--But I thought--"
"Please do not question me, Lucile. The flow of information has already been disrupted enough." He glares at her. He's not being rude, he's simply being...him. He's a bit of intimidating presence, despite his friendly demeanor.
"As you well know, the Ivory Tower doesn't like disruptions, so to speak. Especially for such a critical node in the Blood Trade." He smiles. It's not a warm smile.
Lucile lowers her head and mutters, "I understand." Her voice is a bit shaky. She's not entirely scared of the Prince but she knows the dictates of the Camarilla's Six Traditions.
She pauses and glances to the side. She can see Maya staring at her, looking concerned.
Prince Lucas says, "Don't worry, it'll only be for a few weeks until a...more adequate replacement courier can be found."
"A--And where will I be going?" She looks directly into Prince Lucas's eyes. It's clear that there's no turning back now.
"You will be going from Domain to Domain, receiving and delivering various packages whose contents MUST remain confidential. You will be well-compensated for your efforts. Do you have any more questions, Lucile?" The Prince crosses his arms.
Lucile sighs, "No, I guess I got the gist of it. Thank you." She shakes his hand. It's cold and firm.
She goes back and sees a pickup truck rolling in. Keith and Kelly jump out of the truck and go to the front door.
Maya asks, "Where were you 2? You had me worried sick."
Kelly says, "We uh...took a longer route. It's a lot more scenic. Don't worry, your stuff's all ok, see?" She beckons over to Keith, who's holding one of Maya's suitcase.
Lucile looks at the suitcase and says, "Here, lemme get that."
The suitcases are carried and placed inside the cottage.
Eleanor is waiting by the front door, "So, it is done, then?"
Maya presses her lips together and nods, "Yeah. It's done." She can feel her chest tightening.
"Very well. This Haven is now yours as much as it is Lucile's."
Prince Lucas stands outside and speaks with Keith and Kelly. Maya approaches them and says, "Uh, I just wanted to...thank you, for everything."
Prince Lucas turns around and replies, "You are most welcome, Maya. Just remember what I said, a favor for a favor." He extends his hand. Maya takes it.
He looks at Lucile and says, "Goodnight, Lucile."
Lucile nods, "G--Goodnight, Prince Lucas." She shakes his hand and the Prince walks into the night.
Eleanor walks up and asks him, "Would you like a ride, my liege?"
The Prince smiles and accepts, "That is very kind of you, Eleanor. Thank you." The 2 of them walk away and enter the SUV.
Laszlo holds the door open for the Prince. He avoids eye contact and slides into the backseat. Eleanor gets into the backseat as well and the SUV speeds off.
Keith and Kelly look around the place, taking in its serenity and appreciating the natural beauty all around them- the trees, the grass, and sounds of the night.
Keith says, "Well, I guess that's that. We'll be leaving now, unless there's something else you 2 need."
Lucile says, "No, no, we're good. Thanks!"
Kelly smirks, "Have fun, you 2."
Maya waves as the 2 Ravnos hop into the pickup truck and drive away.
Maya is now alone with Lucile. The 2 of them look at each other and then at their new Haven.
The Usurpers are finally home.
"Well, welcome home, sweetie."
Maya jokingly says, "Not gonna carry me over the threshold or anything?"
Lucile bites her lip, "Well, if that's what you want." She dashes over to Maya, effortlessly picks her up, and carries her into the cottage.
Maya giggles, "Lucile, you're...whoa!" She wraps her arms around Lucile's neck.
Lucile sets Maya down and says, "Hmmm. I think that'll do, for now."
Maya chuckles, "No more than that, huh?"
"The night's still young," Lucile strokes Maya's cheek and smiles.
After a moment, Lucile's smile disappears for a moment and she looks a bit nervous.
She whispers, "Maya, there's something I need to tell you."
"What is it?"
Lucile, with tears of blood beginning to roll down her face, looks directly into Maya's eyes and says, "I'm leaving tomorrow night."
Chapter 10: One Last Night
"WHAT?! But I thought that--that wasn't..." Maya is stunned and shocked at the news.
Lucile says, "Well, I...have to. Prince Lucas, he...he ordered me to and you never say no to your Prince. I--I'm sorry, Maya." Her eyes are red and puffy.
"I can't believe this. This wasn't supposed to happen so--so SOON!" She raises her voice.
"I know, I--I'm sorry. But I never had a say in the matter from the very beginning. I never wanted to leave, Maya, but there's nothing I can do about it now. I'm just--"
Maya angrily says, "B--But, this is bullshit, Lucile! I'm not gonna let you leave, NOT when we just found each other!"
"Maya--"
"No! This is so fucked up, you can't just--" Maya is screaming and Lucile is holding her, trying to calm her down.
Maya pulls Lucile closer and says, "It's...not fair, Lucile. It's--" Her voice cracks. "It's just not fair."
Maya can't hold back her tears anymore. The 2 embrace. They hold each other for what seems like an eternity.
Maya sobs, "I don't want to lose you, Lucile. I--I love you."
"I love you, too, Maya."
"Don't leave me, Lucile. Lemme come with you. I'll...I'll do anything. Please."
Lucile sighs, "I don't think I can. Besides, I don't want anything bad happening to you. It's dangerous out there, sweetie."
"Just...just a few weeks, right?"
"Just a few weeks. I don't know when I'll be back, but I'll be back. I promise."
Lucile strokes Maya's hair and gently kisses her. Maya tightly wraps her arms around Lucile.
Lucile gently caresses her back and softly whispers to her. Maya is sobbing and shaking, "I--It's not fair!"
"I know, but that's the Camarilla for you. Clan Tremere's best choice for survival, but not perfect by any means."
Maya sniffs, "Y--You should've said no! You always have a choice, Lucile, always!" She clings to her. "Please, Lucile, please don't go. N--Not so soon."
Lucile softly replies, "Not when it comes to matters like this, sweetie."
"No, I'm serious. We...we can get away. We can go north, to Canada. You and me, we can go away. Just the 2 of us." She pulls back and looks deeply into Lucile's green eyes. She's dead serious.
Lucile shakes her head, "And keep looking behind our backs for all eternity? I don't think so. Maya, this is our new reality, our place in the world, and we gotta accept it. You and me, we're Kindred now. The mortal way of thinking and doing things is no longer applicable."
She wipes away a tear of blood, "I'm sorry, Maya. There's simply no other way." She hugs her tightly and kisses her. It's a long, deep kiss. Maya responds back, passionately. Their tongues are intertwined and they're both breathing heavily.
Maya breaks the kiss and says, "O--One last night." She can barely speak. Tears of blood are rolling down her cheeks.
"Let's make the most of it, then? My poinsettia." Lucile smiles and Maya nods. She's smiling through her tears. She can't help but smile.
They hold each other and gently kiss yet again. It's a passionate, tender, loving kiss. They savor every second of it. Maya takes her blazer off and tosses it to the side.
Lucile bites her lip and says, "Whoa, haha. Slow down, sweetie." She smiles and admires Maya's curvy body for a few moments.
Lucile then says, "We gotta figure out a way to stay in touch, though. Like, the phone's outta the question. I--I wanna hear your voice, y'know? I wanna hear your voice in the night and I wanna be able to reach out to you and...just talk to you."
Maya kisses Lucile's cheek and replies, "Yeah, me too. I don't want you to disappear. You're all I've got now, Lucile."
Lucile bites her lip, "Let's do it. Let's figure out a way for us to stay in touch."
Maya asks, "But without a phone? Like, with a messenger or something?" She cocks her head.
"Y'know, there was this guy I knew back in the Boston Chantry. He was one of the few Tremere who had access to the Nosferatu's SchreckNet."
Maya chuckles, "Haha, it sounds so funny."
"Yeah, it's pretty robust, until the US Intelligence Agencies started to target the network and dismantle it."
She shrugs, "But, who knows? Maybe it's still around? We could try it. What do you say?"
"It's worth a shot, I guess. So, how do we get in touch with this friend of yours?" Maya's face lights up.
"Well, I have his contact info...somewhere. Gimme a sec to find it. Why don't you go on downstairs and turn my laptop on and uh, check my email, if there's anything important."
"OK!" Maya kisses Lucile and goes downstairs to the basement bedroom.
Lucile quickly goes upstairs and rummages through a pile of papers. She finds her old contact's info on a Post-it note.
Lucile whispers, "Barbaro. Bobby Barbaro. Yep, that's him, alright." She chuckles and shakes her head.
She heads out of the basement, carrying a small bundle of papers.
Maya's looking at Lucile's laptop. It's an old 17 inch Acer laptop, but it still works.
She's looking at Lucile's email and sees tons of messages about antique orders, shipments, and whatnot. She can't tell what's real and what's not.
Lucile sits down and says, "Oh, that, yeah, it's usually how I source and arrange Blood for Thaumaturgical experiments." She's trying to seem casual.
Maya looks at her and says, "Antique shopping, huh?"
"Y--Yeah. That and a lot of other stuff. It's a good cover, actually."
Maya shrugs, "Yeah, that sounds pretty cool. Heh. So, did you find any useful info?"
Lucile nods, "Yeah. I found out a way to reach out to him. Let's see if we can call him now."
Maya moves to the side as Lucile gets closer to the laptop. She logs in to Skype and types in a password.
Lucile clicks on the call button and the laptop's fans get noisier than usual. After a while, a young man's face appears on the screen. It's a bit grainy and hard to make out.
"Hello?" asks a voice with a heavy New York accent.
"Hi, it's me. Uh...Lucile."
The man's eyes widen, "Lucile?? Holy shit, is that really you? Damn, girl, I haven't heard from you in a long-ass time! Listen, this place ain't secure, I'm sure you know why. I'm gonna send you a link. Click on it and follow the instructions. Now, gimme your email."
"Sure." She tells her old friend her email address and rapid mouse clicking can be heard from his end.
"Aight, fine. Just follow the instructions to a tee and you should be fine. You never had any trouble with that, huh? Heh." The man ends the call.
Maya says, "Cool. I wonder what happens next."
Lucile shrugs, "Let's see where this link takes us." She clicks on the link and a strange-looking webpage appears.
Maya asks, "You sure we can trust this guy? You haven't spoken in a while."
Lucile allays her girlfriend's fears, "Bobby's a good guy. Great with computers, too. A bit crass, but we can trust him, Maya. Don't worry."
Lucile clicks on the link and a message box appears and a window opens with a chat icon. Lucile's friend's avatar is a crude picture of a pyramid.
She clicks on the message and a message appears on the screen: "EYYY, YO. LUCILE! LONG TIME NO SEE. HOW YOU BEEN, CHICA??"
Lucile chuckles, "Heh, Bobby. It's been a long time."
She replies: "BEEN DOING GREAT, B. U SURE THIS IS SECURE????"
A few seconds pass and a message appears, "ITS A SCHRECKNET DERIVATIVE. COURSE ITS SAFE, OR AS SAFE AS CAN BE. HEH. ITS A BITCH TO USE BUT ITS THE BEST WAY TO STAY SAFE FROM SI. HOW ABOUT YOU? HOW'S Unlife TREATIN' YOU??"
Lucile looks at Maya and thinks for a moment. She smiles and replies: "IT HAS ITS MOMENTS. SO U STILL IN BOSTON???"
A message pops up: "NAH, LOL. IN JERSEY NOW. BUILDING UP THE NEW JERSEY CHANTRY. THERE'S A LOTTA RESTORATION AND RECONSTRUCTION NEEDED HERE. YOU KNOW HOW IT IS."
Lucile types: "WOW, WE'RE NOT TOO FAR OFF FROM NJ. WE SHOULD TOTES COME N VISIT."
"YOU AND ELEANOR ARE ALWAYS WELCOME ;-)"
Maya nudges Lucile and asks, "Ask him about the...y'know."
"Yeah, I know. It's just...been a while since we spoke. Give me a sec."
Lucile types: "LISTEN, WANTED 2 ASK U ABT SOMETHING."
"SURE. WHAT IS IT?"
Lucile figures out how best to ask the question, and does: "YOU HAVE FULL ACCESS 2 THE SCHRECKNET, RIGHT?"
A few seconds pass and he replies: "*SCHRECKNET DERIVATIVE. WHY :-|"
Lucile's fingers glide across the keyboard: "I MIGHT NEED IT TO KEEP IN TOUCH W/ SOMEONE. ITS A LONG STORY. PLZ."
Another few seconds pass and a message pops up: "YOU?! KEEP IN TOUCH WITH SOMEONE?! I REMEMBER U BARELY EVER SPOKE 2 ANYONE BACK IN BOSTON. WHO IS IT??? CMON, TELL ME :-D"
Lucile sighs and types: "SOMEONE SPECIAL. SOMEONE I MET. SHE'S ACTUALLY ONE OF US."
":-O" immediately followed by: "YOU MET SOMEONE?! LIKE 'MET' MET OR JUST HANGED OUT 2GETHER??? IM CURIOUS :-P"
Maya smiles and rolls her eyes while Lucile blushes. She then types: "I RLY LIKE HER AND WANNA STAY IN TOUCH CUZ REASONS."
Another message follows: ":-D :-D :-D :-D"
After about a minute another message comes in: "WAIT, WHAT HAPPENED 2 THAT MALKAVIAN U USED TO HOOK UP WITH? IS SHE OK? SHE WAS KINDA NUTS BUT WASNT ALL BAD."
Lucile looks at Maya, who nods. She types: "LONG STORY. TBH IDK WHAT HAPPENED TO HER."
"OH SHIT, RIP." Another message appears: "SO, WHAT EXACTLY DO U NEED? LIKE, CAN'T GO AROUND MAKING CALLS AND SHIT. WHAT KIND OF ARRANGEMENT U 2 LOOKIN' 4 HERE? PRIVATE TEXT CHAT? CAMS???"
"NOTHING SPECIFIC. JUST WANT SOMETHING SAFE N SECURE. ALSO, GOOD 4 LONG DISTANCES."
"HOWZ ELEANOR DOING? SHE STILL KICKIN'"
Lucile sighs and chuckles as she replies: "STILL KICKIN' XD. WHY?"
"JUST CURIOUS. STILL KINDA SALTY SHE TOOK AWAY UR PC."
Lucile nervously laughs and shifts her body: "IT WAS 4 THE BEST."
Maya nudges Lucile and asks, "What's he talking about?"
Lucile tugs on her earlobe, "I was a hardcore League Of Legends addict back in the day. It...it got in the way of my Thaumaturgical studies. I...kinda shirked my responsibilities as a result. And that got me punished. And by punished, I mean Eleanor marching into my room and ripping my computer outta of the wall, along with all of its wires."
She's a bit embarrassed to admit this, but it had to be said.
"Whoa, wow." Maya's jaw drops. "I remember you mentioned something about League Of Legends back at the gala, but whoa, that's a big deal."
Another message arrives: "U THERE, CHICA? DONT B GHOSTIN' ME NOW! >:-("
Maya rubs Lucile's shoulder, "It's ok, that was all in the past. We all make mistakes." She kisses Lucile's cheek.
Another message arrives: "LUCILE?! LUCILE?!"
Lucile taps the keyboard rapidly, "IM HERE, NOT GOING ANYWHERE. JEEZ LOL." She glances at Maya and they both laugh.
"SO, WHOS THIS NEW 'FRIEND' OF URS?"
"SHEZ MUCH MORE THAN A FRIEND." Lucile looks at Maya and smiles.
"OOOH, YUM. DETAILS???"
"LOL NO. I MEAN, SHE'S MY GIRLFRIEND."
"OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOHHHHH. SHE A REAL NICE PERSON???"
"YEAH, VERY. ELEANOR EMBRACED HER 2. SHE'S THE BEST."
":-0 AINT THAT SUMTHIN'"
Lucile types, "BUT I'LL B AWAY NEXT FEW WEEKS, SO I NEED A *SAFE N SECURE* WAY 2 KEEP IN TOUCH W/ HER."
"WHY NOT JUST TAKE THE MISSUS ALONG???"
Lucile sighs and responds: "BECAUSE ITS COMPLICATED AND I DONT WANNA GET HER HURT."
"IM SURE SHE CAN HANDLE HERSLF."
Lucile scoffs and replies: "R U GONNA HELP US OR NOT??"
Another message follows: "GIMME A SEC. NEED 2 CHECK SUM STUFF."
"OK. DONT TAKE 2 LONG."
After about a 5 minutes, a message appears containing a strange-looking URL. It's immediately followed by: "CLICK IT. D/W, ITS SAFE. MAKE SURE U HAVE WEBCAM ON UR SYSTEM, K?"
Lucile checks the webcam on her laptop. Maya adjusts her hair as Lucile clicks the link. It's a strange-looking webpage. A few minutes pass and a new window pops up.
The small blue light on the laptop's webcam comes on. Lucile looks into the webcam.
After a few seconds, another user enters the private chatroom. The username is: "JoeyKangaroo7." It's a picture of a kangaroo wearing glasses and showing the middle finger.
The 2 Usurpers wave and smile at the screen. Bobby adjusts his webcam from his end and moves it right up to his face.
He laughs, "Yo, yo, yo! It's been a hella long time, chica!"
She smiles, "Hey, Bobby. It's good to see you, too!"
Bobby Barbaro looks to be in his late-20s. A messy five o'clock shadow on his face. He's wearing a white shirt and suspenders. Both shirt sleeves are rolled up, exposing his hairy forearms. His short black hair is neat and tidy.
Maya nervously says, "Uh...hi. I'm Maya."
Bobby whistles, "A redhead! Damn, Lucile, you got a type, huh?"
Lucile grins, "What can I say? I'm a sucker for a beautiful woman."
Bobby looks at the 2 women, "So, what can Bobby Barbaro do for you 2 lovely vixens on this lovely night?"
Maya asks, "Are you...Tremere, too?"
Bobby laughs out loud, "Hahahaha! 'Course I am! Same Society, too! Reppin' for The Children Of The Pyramid!"
"Cool."
Bobby continues, "I guess this is your first time using SchreckNet, huh? You like it so far?"
Lucile says, "Eh, the UI could use some work."
"I'll be sure to pass your feedback on to the techs down in the sewers. But, anyways, how's that town you living in now? Plain- something or whatever the fuck."
"Plaintry and it's...great, I guess. It's been good for us."
"So, when'd you 2 lovebirds meet? I'm curious."
Lucile replies, "A few nights ago, Bobby."
"WHOA! A few nights ago?! Damn, what was it like, a wham, bam, thank you ma'am sorta thing?" He laughs and Maya and Lucile laugh with him.
"Heh, it's been a wild ride ever since. We've been...getting to know each other."
"And how's that going? I know you well enough to know that you ain't exactly the social type, Lucile."
Maya replies, "Well, w--we're really enjoying our time together."
"Oh, yeah? I'm sure you are. So, where you from, Maya?"
"Plaintry."
"Heh, a small town gal, huh?"
Maya smiles, "Through and through."
He furrows his brow and asks, "Got any family, anyone who might notice something...different about you?"
Lucile asks, "What is this, an interrogation?!"
Bobby holds his hands up, "Hey, hey, hey. Just askin' questions. Don't want anything bad happenin' to my good friend, that's all."
Maya's eyes widen and she replies, "Well, uh...nope. I grew up in an orphanage and was tossed from foster home to foster home."
"I see. Well, I'm sorry to hear that, Maya. I lost my momma when I was a kid."
Maya pensively nods, "I'm sorry to hear that. I--I don't even know who either of my parents are, let alone remember anything about them. I guess I was just unlucky."
Bobby furrows his brow, "You still don't know who they are? Shit, girl. You gotta get one of those at-home DNA tests or something."
Maya shakes her head, "Well, it's not that easy, Bobby. I gotta think about the Masquerade now, so that's out of the question. Besides, there's no one who can help me figure out who my real parents are, dead or alive."
Lucile's eyes widen. She wasn't expecting Maya to say that. She places her hand around Maya and gives her a reassuring squeeze.
Bobby says, "Well, shit. You're right, you're right. But, hey, maybe someday you'll find the truth, you know?"
Maya shrugs, "Yeah, maybe."
Bobby asks, "What about the hospital where you were born? Can't they give you some info?"
Maya shakes her head, "My birth records were destroyed in a fire and the nuns at the orphanage said I was abandoned at the doorstep when I was just a few months old. They even had security footage, but it was all erased when a nun got fired for something. She got transferred out and everything was forgotten about."
Lucile whispers to herself, "Or covered up."
Bobby covers his mouth with his hand, "Damn. Th--That's..."
Lucile adds, "Pretty fucking terrible! What kind of a sicko would abandon a newborn baby?!"
Maya shrugs, "Well, the only thing I can kinda guess is that I'm probably a bastard child or the product of some...illicit affair. Maybe a politician couldn't keep his pants on, heh."
She points to her red hair, "For what it's worth, nobody in this town has hair like mine. So, I always found that kinda weird."
She smiles. She's trying to make light of the situation, but it's not working.
She's still upset, "I--I honestly don't know who you can ask."
Bobby replies, "Well, Maya, I'm a genealogist. Lemme look into it, ok?" He taps the side of his head and winks. He's actually very good at genealogy.
It's his job.
Lucile adds, "Yeah, I'm pretty sure Bobby can help."
Maya says, "I dunno, maybe. I'm sorry. I don't even know what the truth would even be. What if...what if it's a messed up--"
Bobby attempts to lighten the mood, "Maybe you're royalty or some shit, hahaha!" He claps his hands. Maya giggles and rolls her eyes.
She can't help but laugh. Even Lucile lets out a small chuckle.
Maya bites her lip. She's a little overwhelmed by the conversation. It's a lot to take in and it's not something she's particularly fond of talking about.
She's always just shrugged and carried on with life as though her parents were the ones who abandoned her, not the other way around. It's something she's used to dealing with.
Lucile rubs her back and whispers, "Shhhhh. It's OK, sweetie. It's ok. We can talk about something else, if you want. Just...just calm down, ok?" She kisses Maya's cheek.
Maya breathes deeply. She then nods and smiles.
Bobby remarks, "Awwww, you 2 look so cute together." He winks. "So, back to the original topic, what are you gonna use for the time being, as far as communication goes?"
Lucile says, "We were hoping you can tell us what our options are. If it's possible to send a secure text message and have it reach my old phone number, that would be great. Something like that. It doesn't have to be the best, but it should be...safe." She looks at Maya.
Bobby says, "I can actually do a lot better that. But, it's gonna come with one major downside." He looks directly into the webcam.
Lucile raises an eyebrow and asks, "What would that be?"
"Well, it'll last only for 90 seconds and can only be used once per night." He crosses his arms.
Maya asks, "90 seconds?! That's barely enough time to do anything! How's that supposed to work?" She shakes her head.
He responds, "Well, it's a private webcam feed. You can log in from anywhere."
He taps his chin, "It'll all be routed through the SchreckNet, so we shouldn't have any...major issues." He smiles.
He continues, "The video quality would be kinda grainy. But the sound's good enough, I think." He adjusts his suspenders.
Maya looks at Lucile and asks, "What do you think, honey?"
Maya lowers her head and softly says, "It'll have to do, I guess."
Bobby cheekily remarks, "You can get a lot done in 90 seconds. You're gonna have to be creative, but it should work out just fine. Anyways, that's what I got. And that's all I can spare without getting into trouble. It's a little complicated, but I'll help you get it all set up."
"Sure," Lucile says. "Thanks, Bobby. We'll be in touch." She waves.
"Alrighty, I'll leave you 2 lovely ladies to yourselves. Bye-bye now!" He waves and blows a kiss. The chat ends and the website abruptly closes.
The Usurpers are now alone. The 2 look at each other.
Maya presses her lips together, "So, 90 seconds a night, huh? We're gonna have to figure out a way to make it work. What do you think?"
Lucile replies, "I think we can make it work. Just gotta keep it brief, sweetie. Not too much blabbering, I just wanna see your face. A--And hear your voice."
Maya says, "Yeah, same here. And we gotta make it count. But, you're right. We can do it."
Lucile nods and says, "We can. It's just for a few weeks, right?"
Maya looks down and mutters, "Right. Just a few weeks."
She smiles, "But, y'know, after that...after that, I wanna go somewhere nice."
Lucile's face lights up, "Yeah, exactly! What did you have in mind?"
Maya lets out a broad grin, "I've always wanted to go to Canada and we're...kinda close to it now, right? Maybe...maybe we can go up there and see it. Just the 2 of us."
She holds Lucile's hand and squeezes it.
"Just the 2 of us, huh?"
Maya nods, "Yeah, just the 2 of us. And that vibrator of yours, too."
Lucile laughs, "Alright, alright. I like this plan!"
"Just promise me you'll come back safe, Lucile. I don't want you getting hurt out there."
"I promise, Maya. I promise. I'm doing this for us." She holds Maya's hand and looks her in the eyes.
Just then, an email comes in. It's from Bobby.
Maya reads the email and says, "Whoa, look, here's the link!"
She says, "We just gotta log in from separate computers and make sure our webcams are all setup. Sweet!"
Lucile chuckles, "Well, he came through. He's a good guy, Maya. So, you wanna try it now?"
Maya eagerly nods and goes to get her own laptop.
Lucile clicks the link and a strange-looking webpage appears. She's ready.
"Ok, let's do this." She clicks on a message that pops up and her webcam turns on. Maya is watching from her end.
The website is a bit slow and it's a bit laggy, but it's usable. After a few moments, another user enters the session.
Maya's username is a randomized string of letters, special characters, and numbers (just like Lucile's). Their avatars are randomized, too.
"He-llo," says Maya.
Lucile says, "Hi," and smiles. She's staring at her webcam.
After a few moments, Maya asks, "Can you hear me?"
Lucile nods, "Loud and clear. Um...how 'bout you?"
Maya gives a thumbs up.
Lucile adds, "Well, here's the deal, we only have 90 seconds."
Maya nods.
"So, what are we gonna say to each other?"
Maya thinks for a few moments.
She replies, "Well, for starters, I should probably tell you that you look pretty good. Even in a grainy picture."
Lucile chuckles and says, "Heh, I can say the same for you, too, sweetie." She bites her lip.
"I--I was wondering what your favorite color is?"
"Hmmm. I think...purple? Yours?"
"Minty Green. Like my Vespa which is at Frank's. I can't wait to give you a ride on it!"
"Oooh, nice. Yeah, definitely!"
The timer in the upper-top of the screen slowly (but surely) counts down.
Maya asks, "How old were you when you got Embraced?"
Lucile blushes, "26. How 'bout you, sweetie?"
Maya simply says, "33. Yeah, I know, I'm...old."
"No, don't say that. You're amazingly beautiful and I love you for who you are."
Maya blushes, "Aw, thank you, Lucile." She timidly smiles.
"I know it's kinda weird, but I've been thinking about Eleanor and what you told me about her, y'know, forgetting things and all. I--I wonder if that could happen to me..."
Her voice trails off and she shakes her head. "I'm sorry, I don't wanna make this depressing."
"No, sweetie, it's ok. Go on." She's concerned for Maya. She knows that she can be a bit overemotional at times. But she's trying her best to keep it together. For Maya's sake. It's tough.
It's real tough.
Lucile continues, "Yeah, I've been noticing it for the past few weeks. Every time I try to ask her about it, she dismisses me. It's kinda scary. I don't like the idea of an Elder forgetting. Especially one as powerful as Eleanor." She smiles. It's a forced smile.
It's an attempt to ease the tension.
Maya adds, "Yeah, what if she unwittingly breaches the Masquerade?"
Lucile glances at the timer and speaks a bit faster, "I see what you mean. Just promise that you'll keep an eye on her when I'm not around, OK? Promise me, Maya." Her eyes are full of concern. She's genuinely worried about her mentor.
She can't stand the thought of anything bad happening to her Sire.
Maya nods.
The timer's almost up.
Lucile says, "It's getting pretty late. I guess that's our cue. I--I'll miss you, Maya."
"I'll miss you, too. I love you, Lucile. I love you so, so--"
The feed suddenly ends of its own accord. The timer has run out.
"No, no, no!" Maya slams the laptop closed. She's frustrated. Frustrated with the situation. Frustrated with the limitations.
She shuts her eyes and tries to calm herself down. It's a struggle. It's a struggle to stay focused and be calm. She takes a deep breath and exhales.
Maya says to herself, "It's ok, this was just a test. Lucile is still here. Just another night...just another night..."
Lucile comes upstairs and places her hands on Maya's shoulders. "I'm here, my poinsettia," she whispers.
She kisses the side of Maya's neck. Maya is startled at first, but she immediately relaxes.
Lucile massages her tensed-up shoulders. She can feel Maya's stress easing. Her cold body is relaxing.
Or "relaxing" as much as a dead body would.
"Come on, let's go back downstairs," Lucile whispers. She sniffs Maya's hair and says, "You smell...nice."
Maya chuckles, "Really?"
"So, what do you think? You think we can make this 90-second thing work?"
"Yeah, I--I think we can," Maya replies. She smiles. It's a real smile. Albeit, a bit reserved.
The 2 go back down to their bedroom and Maya throws herself onto the bed.
Maya says, "Hey, uh, so what do you wanna do now?"
Lucile notices a new email from Bobby and doesn't immediately respond to Maya. She clicks the email and sees a new link.
She sighs and clicks on it. A new browser tab opens. It's another private webcam chatroom.
Lucile's webcam is already on. Bobby comes on seconds later. He has a bit of blood dripping down his chin.
He sniffs, "Whew. That was fun. So, how'd it go, ladies?"
Lucile takes her laptop and sits on the bed, next to Maya.
"Eh, it was fine, I guess. We were mostly just talking."
Maya raises her eyebrow, "You really can't give us more time? Like 5 minutes?!"
Bobby raises his eyebrows, "5 minutes?! I'm already risking a lot giving you 2 lovebirds 90 seconds." He scratches the back of his head.
"So, I don't know if you know this, but it's not easy, siphoning bandwidth from the SchreckNet." He's not not too happy.
"Why?" Maya asks, nonchalantly.
Bobby sighs and wipes the blood off his chin, "Because the Nosferatu Prince of New Jersey, the guy I'm working with, he's not too keen on other Kindred using the SchreckNet. You know how it is. The other Kindred refused to lift a finger to help the Sewer Rats when SchreckNet was being attacked."
He clicks his tongue, "So, he keeps it for all Nosferatu and a select few...non-Nosferatu. That's why it's not easy to do this, but I'm making an exception for Lucile cuz she's an old friend. Well, not 'old' as in 'old' but, y'know." He nervously laughs.
Lucile chuckles and shakes her head, "Wow, I didn't know that."
"Yeah, Unlife can be a bitch sometimes. Anyways, that's not the reason I called back. I just wanted to tell Maya here that I'm gonna try and look into her background. See what I can find."
Maya raises her eyebrow, "For real?"
"Yeah, for real. I'm not promising anything, but I'll do my best. You got the Bobby Barbaro guarantee. Is there anything else you can tell me about yourself? Anything at all to make my job easier? You said you was an orphan, right? Any other details? Maybe some close friends?"
Maya ponders, "Well, growing up was pretty lonely and the nuns weren't exactly...supportive. I mean, they were nice, but they didn't talk to me that much. I was just a weird kid with red hair, you know? They weren't expecting me to amount to much."
"Yeah, that sucks. Well, you got a lot in common with the kids I was with in foster care, believe it or not." His eyes almost well up but he quickly looks to the side and clears his throat.
Lucile says, "Well, Maya said there wasn't anyone else in this town that has red hair like she does. Maybe that's worth looking into, right?"
Bobby nods his head, "That's true. That kind of red hair is only seen in certain places. I mean, it's a pretty rare thing. But, uh, yeah, that's a good idea."
"Certain places, like where?"
"Mostly Western Europe. The Netherlands, France, Germany, Belgium. Also, a lotta gingers can be found in Ireland and Scotland. It's been a while since I've looked at the stats, but it's definitely possible. The whole 'red hair' thing could've been an accident, or it could've been the result of some...unforeseen circumstances."
"Like...?"
Bobby shrugs, "Eh, I dunno. I'm sure it's nothin'. I'll look into it. If there's something there, I'll find it." He leans back in his squeaky office chair and spins in circles.
"Thanks, Bobby. You're a good guy. And I really appreciate this," Maya says, earnestly.
Bobby replies, "It's nothing, Maya. A friend of Lucile is a friend of Bobby Barbaro."
Maya chuckles.
"Oh, and one more thing, Maya?"
"Hmmm?"
"If you ever hurt Lucile or break her heart, I'll come over to Plaintry and stake you myself. So, no funny business, aight?"
Maya's jaw drops and she quickly nods, "No funny business. I won't. I--I love her."
Lucile interjects, "Heh. Bobby, seriously? You almost scared her."
Bobby Barbaro laughs out loud, "I know, I know. I just had to. But, I mean it. Lucile's a good friend. So, anyways, I'll see ya when I see ya! If you think of anything else, send it directly to my personal email and I'll get to it ASAP. Lucile's got the deets."
"Sure, we will."
"Later, cowgirls!" He waves and the feed cuts off.
The laptop's screen is black and the fans can be heard spinning slower.
Maya looks at Lucile and asks, "Wow. So, you think Bobby can actually find my parents? It's worth a shot, at least."
Lucile says, "Yeah, Bobby's good at what he does. He'll figure out what's what. He's a genealogist and he's a really good hacker. Plus, he's got connections to the Nosferatu and they can probably get into any records and stuff that needs to be accessed."
Maya raises her eyebrow, "It's too bad there's no Nosferatu in this town anymore. Can't believe they were all...well, I guess it doesn't matter. What happened was a tragedy, but, I mean, it was a long time ago."
"Yeah, I guess so. But if there's anyone who knows about this town's history, it'd probably be the Nosferatu. The other Clans know a bit, too, but they don't seem like the types to share with...us."
"Huh," Maya nods her head. She sighs. She thinks for a few moments about how or who she can approach for information. She shakes her head.
She's not in the mood to think about this right now.
She stretches her arms and yawns, "Wow, is that the time? There's still a long way till sunrise, huh?"
Lucile takes her laptop and places it on the table. She then lies on the bed, next to Maya.
"Mmm, it's been a long night. But, it's been good." She holds Maya's hand, fingers tightly interlocked.
"It's been good, hasn't it? So, there's no Nosferatu in this town? Like, none at all?"
"Nope. All of 'em were either Blood Hunted or exiled, it seems."
Maya shrugs, "Shame. I'm sure they would've known something about this town's past. Any Toreadors still lurking around? Maybe we can ask one of them?"
"Not sure about Toreadors, but I heard they got it worse than the Sewer Rats."
"Damn! You ever see a Nosferatu up-close, Lucile?"
"Yup. Back in Boston. W--Why?"
"Are they, like...really...ugly?"
Lucile's face contorts into a scowl when she recalls the Nosferatu she saw back in Boston, decades ago, "Yeah, they're...not exactly what you'd call pretty. Heh."
Maya slowly nods, "It's kinda sad. Our Clan's Bane seems a lot more manageable than theirs."
"I mean, sure, but I've heard of Tzimisce who can make Nossies look...normal again. For a price, of course."
Maya grunts, "So, nothing in Kindred society is done without strings attached, huh?"
Lucile replies, "It's been like that for centuries, sweetie."
"Hmph."
The room grows quiet.
Maya breaks the silence, "I still can't believe it. I can't believe we met, had a great time ever since, moved in together, and you're still here with me. You're really here. We're really...HERE."
"Heh, yeah." Lucile squeezes Maya's hand.
"And in a few weeks, we'll be off to Canada for a while. I wonder what it'll be like."
"We're gonna have a blast. I'm not sure what the Kindred are like out there, but I'm sure they'll be friendly."
Maya nods her head and smiles. She looks up at the ceiling and says, "Yeah, Canadians are usually friendly people, right?"
Lucile remarks, "But Canadian vampires, on the other hand? Maybe they politely ask before sticking their fangs into you?"
Maya laughs, "Pfft, yeah. I wouldn't expect any less. We'll have to watch out for that, I guess. But I'm sure they won't attack us. Maybe, right?"
"We just have to present ourselves to the Prince in accordance with the Fifth Tradition and we should be fine."
"Cool, cool." Maya nods, "We'll be fine. We'll be fine, won't we, Lucile?"
"Yes, sweetie, we'll be fine. Just pack something nice and warm."
"Alright!" Maya nods her head and smiles.
She rolls onto her side and wraps her arm around Lucile.
"I love you, Lucile. I'm gonna count down the seconds until you come back."
"And I love you, my poinsettia."
They lie on their sides, facing each other. They're still smiling.
Their eyes meet. They gaze into each other's eyes.
Maya says, "How do you wanna spend our last night together?"
She pauses, "Well...not 'last' night, just y'know...I mean, since you're...y'know."
Lucile smiles, "Well, what do you have in mind?"
Maya thinks for a few moments, "Hmmm, I only have one thing in mind," she whispers.
"Oooooh, and what would that be?"
"A kiss. For starters."
"Oooooh, just a kiss?"
"Just a kiss."
Maya nods and places her hand behind Lucile's neck. She leans in and places her cold lips against Lucile's. They close their eyes as their lips press together.
Lucile feels the tenderness of Maya's body as the redhead pushes closer to her. Her hand slides towards her chest. Her fingers caress the top of her breast. She's soft, but firm.
Maya gently moves her lips, slowly caressing Lucile's with her tongue. Her breathing grows heavier. She's becoming excited. Her lips are still pressed against Lucile's.
She feels Lucile's soft hand sliding down her back and gently pressing on her hip. Her excitement grows.
She then pulls away, breaking the kiss.
Lucile looks into her eyes, "Is that...is that all, sweetie?"
Maya nods.
"I...wanna show you something, Maya."
She nods again.
Lucile gets up from the bed and takes Maya's hand. She leads her outside to where the poinsettia bushes are.
She gestures to the flowers, "I'll need you to keep them...'watered' when I'm gone."
Maya asks, "What's so special about them?"
"They're special because of the Blood, Maya. Just give them a few drops every now and then and they'll be healthy and happy."
Maya's eyes widen, "Whoa! That's so cool! J--Just a few drops into the soil, right? You don't mean a few drops into the flowers themselves, right?"
"Right. Just a few drops into the soil itself."
"Neat."
Maya narrows her eyes, "Uh...is that what you wanted to show me or is there something--"
Lucile pulls Maya closer and spins her around.
"Oh."
Maya's eyes are full of awe.
Lucile whispers into her ear, "I'm sure you'll make them happy while I'm gone, sweetie."
Under the moonlight, the 2 women hold each other close, twirling in circles.
Maya asks, "Do you want me to get you anything? Like, something you can bring with you? Just in case?"
Lucile shakes her head, "Everything's already been taken care of. Don't worry."
Maya places her head on Lucile's shoulder and sighs, "I can't help it, I'm a worrier."
Lucile kisses the top of Maya's head and sways from side to side, "I'm glad you are."
"Re--Really?"
"Of course. It means that you care. I care about you, too. A lot."
They continue to spin and twirl. Maya closes her eyes and feels the wind softly blowing across her face.
She then says, "This is so surreal."
Lucile asks, "What's so surreal, my poinsettia?"
"Everything. This is all so surreal. I mean, Unlife. Kindred. The Clans. Our Clan. Us. All of it. It's just...so surreal. Everything else I've experienced in my 33 years is like a dream compared to...this."
She continues, "And I'm glad. I'm glad it's not like a dream. I'm glad this is real."
Lucile smiles, "I'm glad, too."
Lucile hums a song as the duo continue to spin and twirl in circles.
Eventually, they stop dancing and stand under the stars, embracing each other.
Lucile whispers, "Now, let's go back in so I can show you something cool."
Maya whispers back, "OK."
The 2 kiss once more.
As they enter the cottage, Lucile giggles as Maya playfully bites her lip.
"So, what is it, Lucile? What's this 'something cool' you wanna show me?"
She playfully bites her lip, "Well, why don't you sit down?"
Maya sits on the sofa and Lucile stands in front of her.
"Alright, I'm ready. What is it?" Maya asks.
Lucile grins and then licks her lips. She then slices the palm of her hand with her sharp claw.
"Whoa, what are you doing?!" Maya says, worriedly.
"You'll see. Now, hold still, ok?"
"Uh...o--ok."
Lucile's Vitae starts dripping onto the floor.
Maya's eyes widen and her jaw drops.
"Oh, wow..."
Lucile closes her eyes and focuses. Her Blood slowly solidifies on her palm and starts taking a shape.
Maya asks, "Lucile, are you sure this is safe? I--I've never seen anyone do this."
Lucile calmly replies, "Shhhh. Trust me."
The Blood is taking the form of...something. It's slowly shaping itself into a something thin. And sharp.
"Wow...it's beautiful."
Maya marvels as the Blood twists and turns on Lucile's open hand.
"It's not finished yet," Lucile says.
"Well, what is it? What's it gonna be?"
Lucile softly smiles and clenches her fist.
"A stiletto."
The stiletto slowly takes its final shape in Lucile's hand.
The 2 women sit quietly and admire the weapon.
Lucile holds her hand out and says, "Here, touch it."
Maya shakes her head, "I...I--"
Lucile insists, "It's sharp, but it's OK. It's something I've been working on...for a long time."
Maya cautiously reaches out and touches the blade, made entirely of solidified Vitae.
"Whoa...it's pointy, but how?! How'd you do this?"
"That's Tremere Blood Sorcery for you, Maya."
"That's so cool! Do you ever use it to cut...stuff?"
Lucile nods, "Only once, during my Proving which was years ago."
"What does the Proving involve, exactly?"
Lucile playfully brandishes her Blood stiletto around, "An...initiation of sorts. A test to prove your worth to the Pyramid. All the Elders and Regents preside over it."
"It's not a death match or anything, is it?"
Lucile breathes in and out, "Uh...it depends. It's different for everyone. Since you chose Auspex as the Discipline to specialize in, you uh, might get something like a...lethal obstacle course."
Maya's eyes widen, "A wha--"
"The point is, you have to prove your worth, but that's only for The Children of the Pyramid. We demand the best, Maya. Anything less..." She makes a small grunt. She's getting upset. But it's not at Maya. It's at the memory.
The memory of her Proving. It's always been a touchy subject for her for certain reasons.
She makes a cutting motion with her stiletto, "Anything less and it's likely Final Death."
Lucile, however, smiles, "But I know my sweet poinsettia will do well. When the time comes, you'll have to do it alone, but I'll be there to make sure nothing happens to you. A--And to provide support. Heh." She winks.
Maya strokes the stiletto and asks, "So, can I...hold it?"
Lucile shakes her head, "It's pretty much...stuck to my hand now, but, uh, I suppose you can." She carefully places her hand in Maya's. She holds the stiletto upright. It's still wet with red Vitae, yet hard like steel.
Maya turns the blade over. She marvels at the (all natural, yet unnatural) intricacies.
She says, "Wow. Just...wow. This is a really, really cool trick--"
Lucile interjects, "Oh, it's much more than a trick, sweetie. It's a...weapon. But, y'know, not just a weapon. It's art, too." She smiles. It's a bittersweet smile.
Maya nods, "Well, at least you have...something to protect yourself with when you're away. At least it's a bit of insurance, right? I--I'd feel a lot better if I had something like this, too." She smiles. It's a bittersweet smile, too.
"I'm glad you like it. It took a while to get right, but I got it. Eventually. Heh." She shrugs.
"Well, I'm happy you have it. And, uh, yeah, it's really, really cool." She nods her head, "You really have to tell me how you did it later."
She bites her lip. "You really have to tell me."
She emphasizes, "I'd love to know EVERYTHING!" There's a glint in her eye. A glint of passion. A glint of hunger. A desire to know more.
It's a bit frightening, but it's also...beautiful.
"Alright, alright." Lucile chuckles. "One night, I'll tell you EVERYTHING. No secrets, no holding back. I promise. Just..."
She pauses for a few moments before continuing, "...not tonight, Maya. Please."
"Oh. O--OK." Maya's expression falls. "I understand. Sorry. I...I just get a little excited about this stuff, I guess. But, yeah, OK. You're right. Not tonight." She gently nods her head.
Maya's eyes are full of curiosity and wonder. Yet, she looks a bit saddened.
Lucile places her hand on Maya's shoulder and says, "Look, I'm sorry, Maya. I didn't mean to sound harsh or anything. I know that there should be no secrets between us, but...this is just a bit more complicated. I--I'm sorry." She frowns.
She's also feeling a bit guilty. She's a little ashamed of what she had to do to initially conjure up a blade of pure Vitae.
Maya's eyes widen, "No, no, it's OK. I get it. You've been a Kindred for longer than I have. I'm barely a week into this and you've already been doing it for decades. It's probably pretty hard to share everything with me, and I totally get that, Lucile. Really. I mean, I'm just a Fledgling, not a--"
"Neonate," Lucile says as she warmly smiles.
She smiles and playfully taps the stiletto.
"It's a beautiful weapon. I just hope I won't be...forced to use it. Ever." She looks to the floor and shakes her head.
Maya says, "But if you HAVE to use it, I'm sure you'll be able to do it."
"I just hope it doesn't come to that. I've never been the fighting type."
"Yeah, I'm more a lover than a fighter."
Lucile snickers, "You are, aren't you, my poinsettia."
Maya's face flushes and she laughs, "I--I guess so. But, uh...how do you turn it off or put it away--"
Lucile immediately detaches the stiletto from the palm of her hand, causing it to solidify and slowly turn to dust. The red dust looks and feels like sand. A bit of it falls onto Maya's lap.
"Huh."
"Yeah, it's...an ongoing process. I don't know why, but the blade takes a while to fully...disintegrate." She smiles.
"I--I can't wait to learn how to do this one night! I'm sure it's pretty cool, huh?" Maya smiles.
Lucile leans into Maya's ear and whispers, "I can teach you things, Maya. So much. Things no one else could teach you. Not even Eleanor. I can show you how to use your powers, your magic."
Maya raises her eyebrow, "Really?"
Lucile's voice gets more sultry, "But only if you're willing to learn. It'll be dangerous. It's not for everyone."
"W--Wow." Maya gulps. "So, uh, what...what do you have in mind, exactly?"
She holds Maya, "But first, I need to KNOW if this is what you want."
"Well, uh, yeah. I--I guess. I mean, I obviously love Auspex but I wouldn't mind dipping my toes into a bit of Blood Sorcery."
"It's...gonna be a bit unorthodox."
Maya pauses and thinks for a few moments.
She asks, "Um, sure, sure. So, can you start teaching me something now?"
Lucile hugs Maya and whispers, "I just wanna hold you for a while."
"So, um, what is it? What should I do?"
She says, "Shhhh."
Maya stays quiet and holds Lucile close.
Lucile whispers, "Let's make our last night together count."
"L--Last night?"
"Sorry, I mean last night for a while."
Maya looks down and nods, "OK." She smiles.
The 2 women embrace each other, gently swaying in place.
"You want anything, you lemme know. I really wanna buy you something nice, Maya."
"Um...sure. Sure. I'll keep that in mind. I'll let you know. Y--Yeah."
Lucile smiles and bites her lip.
Maya smiles, too. Her eyes are welling up a bit.
She says, "When you come back, I'm gonna run into your arms and make out with you. I--I just know it."
Lucile's eyes also well up a bit. She's a bit nervous. She's scared. But, she knows that she has to be strong. Not just for herself, but for Maya, too.
As well as the others counting on her.
"Awww, that's very sweet of you, my poinsettia."
Maya replies, "And then we're off to Canada!"
"Yeah, I'm really looking forward to that. I really am, Maya. It will our first time out of the country. Heh."
Maya nods, "Yeah, exactly."
Lucile smiles and squeezes Maya.
The 2 stay like that for a while, silently enjoying each other's company.
After a few precious moments, Lucile stands up and takes Maya by the hand.
"Come with me," she gently says.
They walk back to their bedroom.
Lucile pushes Maya onto the bed, playfully.
Maya playfully yells, "Whoa!"
Lucile giggles and bites her lip. She then gets on top of Maya, straddling her.
"Lucile..."
Lucile places her finger on Maya's lip, "Shhhh. Let's just enjoy our...'last' night together. We won't be able to do this for a long time."
She slowly removes her top. It falls to the floor, revealing her bra. She unhooks it and tosses it to the side, revealing her bare chest.
Maya gulps, "Yummy."
Lucile chuckles and places her hand on Maya's stomach, "Heh, you're such a sweet talker, my poinsettia. I just love the sound of your voice."
She places her hand on Maya's chest, "Your body is so cold, Maya. Yet so hot. I can feel it from here."
She rubs her hand down Maya's chest and playfully tugs at her shirt. She looks Maya in the eye, silently asking permission. Maya nods her head.
Lucile's hands deftly unbutton Maya's shirt and remove it, leaving her in her bra.
She licks her lips, "Hmmmm. Much better."
Maya blushes and bashfully looks away.
Lucile smiles, "You're so cute when you're embarrassed. You're such a sweetheart. I love it."
She caresses Maya's cheek and gently kisses her lips. Maya opens her mouth and their tongues begin to overlap.
Lucile feels Maya's cold hand touching her breast. She places her hand on top of hers. Their fingers intertwine.
Lucile then takes Maya's hand and guides it down her chest and down her stomach, to the waistband of her pants.
"I--I thought you were gonna take these off..."
"Not yet, sweetie. You'll have to help me get 'em off." She pauses and continues, "It's more romantic that way."
Maya's face is flushed. Her hands are trembling. She's excited. She's happy. She's overwhelmed. She helps Lucile slip her pants down. They're discarded in a pile on the floor.
Lucile's now left in her panties, and Maya's left in her bra. Lucile gently kisses Maya's neck as Maya holds Lucile's body close to her own. Their hands begin to roam and explore.
They're exploring the landscape of each other's bodies. It's an exhilarating experience (to say the least!).
Maya feels the coldness of Lucile's body as she caresses her back and feels the curves of her back.
Lucile seductively whispers, "You really have to want what I'm offering you, Maya. You really have to. And not just for tonight. You'll have to do it for a long time. So, if you don't really want it or you're not ready, just say no, OK?"
Maya gulps in between moans, "I--I'm ready. I'm ready, Lucile. I want it. Whatever 'it' is." She closes her eyes and kisses her lover's cold lips. She kisses her neck. She kisses her collarbone, which elicits a moan from Lucile.
Lucile makes Maya sit up against the headboard and straddles her. She then kisses her, deeply. She moves her lips and tongue down Maya's neck, slowly inching her way towards Maya's chest.
Maya deftly unhooks her own bra, Lucile grabs it and buries her face in it, sniffing deeply. Maya giggles. Her nipples are fully erect. They're begging for attention.
Maya bites her lip and gently places her hands on Lucile's shoulders. Lucile bares her fangs and smiles.
Maya gasps. Lucile then bites Maya's neck, making her jump in surprise. She moans. She closes her eyes. She throws her head back. It's a powerful sensation. It's...orgasmic, in a way.
Maya groans, shakes, and moans as Lucile makes sucking, kissing, and licking sounds against her neck. It's a sensation that Maya's never felt before. It's amazing. It's wonderful. It's incredible. It's overwhelming.
It's...ecstatic.
Lucile pulls away after a while and Maya immediately goes in for another kiss as blood is trickling down her chin. She places her hand behind Lucile's back and her other hand behind her head.
She pushes Lucile towards her and moans into the kiss.
The kiss is intense. It's passionate. It's deep, desperate, needy, lustful, powerful, and fiery.
Eventually, Maya breaks the kiss and asks, "What--wha--what now, Lucile?"
She's excited. She's desperate. She wants more. She needs more. But, she's not sure how to proceed. She's new to this. New to this kind of...sex. Her hands are trembling.
Lucile taps her own neck with her 2 fingers, "Bite me," she says, gently.
"W--What? But--But, I thought--" Maya is at a loss for words. The very thought of biting Lucile in the neck scares her.
Lucile replies, "Well, that was a tease. I didn't wanna scare you."
Maya says, "So, th--this is how you're gonna teach me...stuff?"
"Mm-hmm."
"L--Like a Blood Bond???" Maya is shocked. She's also scared.
Lucile gently nods, "Yes, my poinsettia. Like a Blood Bond."
"L--Lucile, I've never done anything like this before. I--"
Lucile places a finger on Maya's lips, "Shhhhh. Everything's gonna be alright. I'd never do anything to hurt you. You know that. You just have to trust me. Do you trust me, Maya?"
"W--With all my Unlife I do." Maya replies, honestly. She's nervous. A bit anxious, but she's also excited.
Lucile reassures her, "It'll be our little secret. No one has to know about it, OK?"
"O--OK. I trust you. I trust you, Lucile." Maya takes a deep breath and exhales.
"Good, now just follow my lead, OK?" She slits her wrist with her claw and offers it to Maya.
Maya's eyes widen. She hesitates. She's reluctant. She doesn't want to hurt Lucile.
But, the Blood is...calling out to her, begging to be tasted, drunk.
Maya closes her eyes and breathes. She places her hand around Lucile's wrist and lifts her arm up to her mouth.
"Go ahead, sweetie. Drink up and let us become one. Let us become more than one."
Maya takes a deep breath and wraps her cold lips around Lucile's wrist. Lucile strokes Maya's hair with her other hand while Maya hesitatingly sucks the Vitae.
After a few moments, Lucile stops her.
"OK, that's enough for now, Maya." She wipes some blood from the corner of Maya's mouth and holds it on the tip of her finger for Maya to lick.
Maya licks the blood from the tip of her finger. She looks up at Lucile and blushes.
Lucile then pulls her finger away. Without warning, Maya eagerly grabs Lucile's wrist and licks the wound shut. She bites her lip.
"Oh, Maya!"
Maya is taken aback, "Uh, uh, s--sorry! I--I just thought--"
"It's OK, sweetie. It can be overwhelming at first. I know. Trust me, I know."
Maya nods, "OK." She blushes. She looks down. She's embarrassed. She's a bit frustrated. She clearly wants more.
Lucile says, "It's gonna take us a while since us Tremere have a harder time creating a Blood Bond. But, we'll get there."
"So, how long do you think it's gonna take before I can make blood stilettos, too?"
"There's no timetable, sweetie. It's different for everyone. We have all the time in the world, don't we?"
"W--We sure do. Haha," Maya nervously chuckles.
Maya then asks her girlfriend, "So, once we're Blood Bonded, what will we have to do? Like, y'know, what's gonna happen?"
"Well, for a start, we're gonna be linked together. The terminology around it is a bit...outdated, but you'll essentially be my Thrall, so to speak. And I will be your Regent."
"Uh, wha--"
"Don't worry, Maya. I'll never treat you horribly. As a precaution, I'll also be drinking from you on occasion- to ensure balance, I guess."
"O--OK." Maya nods her head.
"But, look, there's no pressure. If you don't want to do this, we can stop. I won't be mad."
"No, no, it's not that, Lucile. I do want it, I REALLY do. I just...I'm nervous, that's all. I've NEVER done anything like THIS before."
"Yeah, I know, sweetie. I'm nervous, too. This kind of closeness, this kind of--" Lucile chokes up a bit, "--this kind of love and intimacy, it's not something I'm used to."
Maya says, "Me neither. It's all so...new."
"Yeah, but that's what makes it all so fun, right?"
Maya smiles and nods her head, "Yeah!"
"Well, are you OK, Maya? Do you need a break or something?"
"N--No, it's OK. I just wanna spend every second holding you. Y--You know, just in case this is the last time we're able to be together. I don't want to waste a moment."
Lucile nods and gently kisses Maya's forehead, "This WON'T be our last time, my poinsettia. We have a whole eternity ahead of us. Don't worry."
"So, are we gonna be stuck like this forever? Like, we can't break the Blood Bond?"
Lucile slightly gasps and is taken aback by the question, "Yes, b--but there are ways to undo it. Uh...it's a little complicated, but, the Blood Bond can be undone if one party is, well, destroyed. Then the other party can't drink any more of their blood, so they're released from the Blood Bond."
Lucile adds, "That's usually how it goes."
"Oh, L--Lu--Lucile!" Maya exclaims. She hugs Lucile as tight as she possibly can and buries her face in her chest.
"It's OK, Maya. It's OK."
Maya says, "Promise me you won't do anything rash or stupid while you're away, OK? Like, you're not gonna try and be all hero or anything, right?"
Lucile sighs, "I--I'll try, Maya."
"The--the very thought of--of losing you..." Maya's voice cracks.
Lucile hugs Maya, tightly. "Shhhh. Don't worry. I'll be careful. I'll come back home to you, Maya. You'll see. But, if I DO get in a scrape, promise me that you won't try and come and help me, OK? And promise me that YOU won't do anything crazy o--or dumb while I'm gone, OK?"
"I promise, Lucile. I promise," Maya whispers. Tears of blood are running down her cheeks.
She pleads, "Please, come back to me." She quietly sobs, "I--I don't know what I'd do without...you."
She's still holding Lucile close. She's still crying. Her body is trembling. She's scared. She's sad.
Lucile gently whispers, "Everything's gonna be fine. The weeks are gonna go buy quick and then I'll be back in your arms. I'm not gonna leave you, Maya. I love you. I really do. And I'm gonna come back to you."
Maya wipes the blood tears from her face and sniffs. She looks into Lucile's eyes. Her eyes are full of hope and desperation. She needs this. She needs her. She needs the hope, the comfort, the love, and the reassurance.
Lucile needs it, too. She's gonna be out there risking her Unlife. She's gonna be putting her neck on the block for the Kindred (particularly, those of the Ivory Tower).
It's the most selfless act she's ever done, but it's a sacrifice that she's...compelled to make.
It's a sacrifice that she's willing to make, but she's not gonna let the woman she loves get caught up in the mess. This is her job and hers alone.
Maya gulps and hungrily kisses Lucile. They exchange long, deep, and passionate kisses. It's a bittersweet kiss. It's a kiss of longing and desire. A kiss of passion and desperation. A kiss of sorrow and hope. A kiss of farewell and hope for tomorrow.
A kiss of hope for tomorrow, together.
Forever, for all eternity.
Their tongues dance together and their lips lock. Their mouths are open and their lips are tightly pressed together. They're breathing heavily and moaning.
The duo remove the rest of their clothes and hastily toss it all over the floor. They're fully exposed. They're beautiful. They're naked. They're vulnerable. Yet, they're completely open and exposed to each other.
They're...free.
Lucile continues to straddle Maya and the 2 continue to kiss, long and deep. Maya is trembling, but her nerves are settling. Her excitement is growing. Her lips are cold, yet they're full of vigor and longing.
The moaning and groaning grows louder. The kissing and the licking continues. Lucile bites Maya's lip. Maya returns the favor. They continue to taste a bit of each other's blood. Just droplets at a time. A bit of a tease. A bit of a promise. A bit of a hint of the pleasure to come.
Lucile eventually pushes Maya down onto the bed and she's now on top. She smiles and playfully bites her lip. Maya is staring intently at her naked body. She's captivated by it. Mesmerized.
Maya's jaw hangs open in awe of Lucile's gorgeous, pale and cold, yet stunning body.
Lucile bites her lip and playfully twirls her finger, "You ready, my sweet poinsettia?"
Maya licks her lips and nods as Lucile positions her crotch above Maya's lips.
Maya grabs Lucile's hips and pulls her close. Her lips touch Lucile's thighs. She kisses and licks her all over as Lucile gets into a kneeling position.
Lucile whispers, "Mmmmm, Maya..." Her voice is sultry and seductive. She then lowers her crotch to Maya's mouth, letting her feel the wetness with her nose.
She gently grinds her pussy against her lips and chin. Maya is eagerly tasting and feeling her girlfriend's arousal. She's delighted.
Maya puckers her lips and licks up and down, making a smacking sound with each one. Her tongue is darting all over, exploring her lover's nether regions.
She's licking, sucking, and making slurping sounds as she tastes her. Maya moans, "Hmmmmm."
Lucile grabs the back of Maya's head and pulls her deeper into her. She leans forward, pushing her crotch further onto Maya's mouth.
Maya is fully submerged in the folds of her lover's pussy. Lucile then bucks her hips back and forth, moving to the rhythm of Maya's tongue.
They're both getting into it. The sucking and licking is getting more and more passionate.
More and more urgent. More and more frantic. More and more fervent.
The 2 women are in a world of bliss. Lucile grunts and groans. Maya moans and sighs and doesn't stop what she's doing. Their bodies are completely in sync.
The moans and groans are growing louder and faster. Lucile tightly grips Maya's hair. Her breathing is getting more and more ragged.
Lucile's hips are thrusting faster and faster. Maya is now struggling to keep up, but she's more than happy to oblige. She's loving every minute of this. Every second of being with her. Every millisecond of tasting her.
Lucile lets out a long, loud, and guttural moan. Maya is still making kissing sounds, but the sensations are getting stronger.
Lucile is moaning, "Aaaaahhhh, ffffuuuuuck!" She rolls her eyes back in ecstasy. Her body is trembling and she's starting to lose control.
Maya reaches out to hold Lucile's hands, and Lucile responds by grabbing them. The 2 women intertwine their fingers. They're tightly holding hands as Lucile's orgasm approaches.
"AAAAAAH...AAAAAAAH. M--Maya! OOOOOOOH...MY GODDDD!"
Maya is holding onto her lover for dear life as her orgasm peaks and starts to fade.
Lucile sighs and breathes heavily, "Oh, God." She heaves, "Oh, fuck. Wow." She laughs as bloody sweat trickles down her forehead.
"Holy shit, Maya. That was...whoa."
Maya smacks her lips and giggles, "So, um, how was it?"
"I've never felt anything like it before." Lucile gulps and continues, "I--It was amazing."
"I'm glad. It was so much fun." Maya's smiling from ear to ear as she looks up at Lucile.
"Mmmmm, but now it's my turn."
"W--Wait. I just want to look at you from down here. You look so...beautiful." Maya is genuinely excited and pleased by what just transpired.
Lucile chuckles, "I'll be happy to oblige." She places her hand on top of Maya's head and strokes Maya's forehead, gently.
Maya's brown eyes meet Lucile's green eyes. She can feel the passion and the desire emanating from her.
Maya remarks, "You're the most beautiful woman I've ever known."
She smiles, "Thanks, sweetie. And you're the sweetest woman I've ever met."
"I'm so glad I met you."
"Me too, my poinsettia. Me too."
They spend a few moments looking deep into each other's eyes.
After a while, Lucile gets off Maya and lies next to her. Lucile holds her close and places her head on her shoulder. Maya pulls Lucile in.
The 2 lay in bed, facing each other. They're embracing and kissing each other.
Lucile's fingers slowly make their way down Maya's thigh and towards her pussy. Maya instinctively opens her legs and closes her eyes.
She gasps, "Y--Yes."
Maya's eyes are still closed and her face is full of pleasure as Lucile's fingers slide into her, deeply.
Lucile cradles Maya's head and kisses her. She then begins to slowly pump her fingers in and out of her. Maya's mouth is wide open.
Her body is tense. Her head is rolling around. Her hips are bucking in rhythm with Lucile's swift hand.
"L--Lucile," Maya is desperately whispering her name.
The 2 continue to passionately make out with each other as Lucile's fingers are moving in and out of Maya's pussy. At first, it's just 1 finger, then Maya asks for 2.
Lucile gladly complies and starts making a 'come here' motion with her fingers, hitting Maya's G-spot. Maya's entire body is shuddering. Her hands are gripping the sheets. Her nails are digging into the bed.
Maya then grabs hold of Lucile's wrist and says, "Ooooooh, oooooooh..." She's getting closer and closer. She's trembling. She's losing control. Her muscles are tensing. Her mouth is agape. Her body is rigid.
Lucile sucks on Maya's nipples as she starts to convulse and climax. Her hips are shaking. Her body is shuddering. Her legs are twitching. Her toes are curling. She's groaning and sighing.
Lucile wraps her lips around Maya's nipple and starts sucking hard. Maya is whimpering and moaning in ecstasy. She's trembling and shaking. She's holding Lucile's hand tightly as her orgasm is about to reach its peak.
Maya pushes Lucile's head further into her chest. Lucile's tongue is circling around her nipple. Her lips are firmly planted around it. She's sucking hard. Hard enough to draw a bit of blood. A drop or two.
It's a delicious taste. A salty, metallic flavor. Lucile intensifies her sucking of Maya's nipple. She's now making a 'licking' sound as her tongue and lips are working their magic.
Meanwhile, Lucile's index and middle fingers are still massaging and rubbing Maya's pussy. The squishy, smacking, and slurping sounds are growing louder.
Maya screams out and arches her back as she feels the O-train is about to reach its destination. She's panting, gasping, and screaming. Her eyes are rolling back and her mouth is wide open.
Maya then bucks her hips as Lucile moves on to suck on the other nipple. The sensation is intense. Maya's orgasm is overwhelming. She's lost all control. She's quivering. She's spasming. She's convulsing.
Maya lets out a long moan. Her voice cracks. Her body is trembling. Her hips are rolling back and forth. Her toes are curled. She's holding onto Lucile for dear life.
Or dear Unlife, as the case is.
Lucile keeps sucking on Maya's voluptuous breasts, while fingering her, and massaging her clitoris with her thumb. Her fingers are sticky. She's covered in Maya's fluids.
Which is almost all Vitae at this point. Maya's juices are trickling down Lucile's wrist and arm.
Lucile offers her hand to Maya. Maya looks at Lucile and slowly licks the palm of her hand. She makes slurping sounds as she slowly laps up said juices.
Maya looks deep into Lucile's eyes as she keeps licking her hand, slurping and moaning.
Lucile leans forward and whispers, "That was amazing, wasn't it, my poinsettia." She playfully bites her lip. Her eyes are full of longing and excitement.
Maya nods, "Y--Yes." She's panting. Her mouth is wide open. She's still trembling. Her eyes are half-closed. Her face is flush. Her voice is trembling. She's...exhausted.
Maya throws her arms around Lucile and kisses her passionately. They're holding each other tight. Their cold and naked bodies are pressed together. They're kissing and licking one another. Their tongues are entwined.
Their hands are exploring and feeling each other up (and down). They're caressing each other. They're enjoying the euphoria of the afterglow of this tender moment for they do not know when they'll have it again.
It definitely isn't tomorrow night. Most certainly not next week. Probably not next month. Hell, if the Camarilla decides Lucile should continue as (one of the many) couriers for the American Northeast, it won't even be a year from now.
It could likely be centuries from now.
Although, neither hopes that's the case. Neither wants that. Neither is willing to take that risk. Not yet. Not when they've found each other. Not when there's still so much to explore.
Not when their love has only just begun.
So, they continue to make out. They continue to explore and discover the other. They're not finished. Not yet.
They're far from done. But, for now, they decide to take a break. They're wrapped around each other. Holding each other. Comforting each other.
Whispering sweet nothings in each other's ears.
Lucile places her head on Maya's chest and gently places her hand on her belly.
Maya runs her fingers through Lucile's brown hair, gently. Lucile, meanwhile, gets comfortable on Maya's bosom. It's a very comforting spot. A perfect spot.
THE spot.
The place. The safe place. The place of safety, happiness, and contentment.
Maya presses her finger against Lucile's lips, "Shhhhh."
Lucile replies, "Hmmmm."
Maya holds Lucile tightly and kisses the top of her head, "Let me be your pillow today."
"I'm not gonna let you go," she whispers. "Not yet. Not until you're ready."
"Mmmmm," Lucile purrs. "Thank you. My lovely poinsettia."
Maya chuckles, "Shhhhh."
"Hmmmm."
Lucile's eyes slowly close as she lets out a gentle sigh.
The sun is starting to rear its head. The 2 Tremere can feel the sluggishness and tiredness approaching. Yet, they're not quite ready to succumb to the inevitable. Not just yet.
Maya holds her lover in her arms. She's smiling. She's happy. She's at peace.
Lucile feels the same way as she's holding Maya. She's safe. She's protected. She's...comforted. She's happy. She's content.
She's in love.
The 2 stay like that for a while, with Maya cradling Lucile on her bosom.
A smile comes across Maya's face as her eyes eventually close. In time, she's day-sleeping, peacefully.
Lucile, too, succumbs to the day-sleep, contently resting her head on her girlfriend's inviting bosom, peacefully.
All nice and snug, holding each other close.
In this particular moment, they're together. And together, they're one. Together, they're safe. Together, they're whole.
Together, they're at peace.
Even though, it probably looks like 2 pale corpses to the untrained (oft-times mortal) eye.
They're vampires. They're Tremere. They're Kindred. But, for this one night, they're just 2 women in love, day-sleeping in each other's arms.
Soon, the 2 completely fall into the abyss of day-sleep. They're both dreaming.
And they're dreaming of tomorrow. And of what comes after. And of forever. And of the future.
Hopefully, it's a future full of hope and promise. But, such is rarely the case for the creatures that stalk the night and "live" off the blood of mortals.
Yet, such might be the case for the 2 women, embracing each other and dreaming of the future, together. Forever.
Assuming nothing goes wrong...and all goes according to plan.
Whose plans?
The Ivory Tower's? The Prince's?
Or the other Kindred of Plaintry?
Or the plans of a certain group that doesn't quite belong to this town?
Those who know of their existence? Those who don't (yet) know of their existence?
Or the other mortals, in this sleepy town?
Only a few know...
Meanwhile, outside a motel far, far, far away from Lucile's and Maya's Haven...
Brock approaches the person sitting near the enclosed desk. He looks the person up and down. He's wearing a yellow short-sleeved shirt. His face is lit up by the blue glow of his computer's screen. He's also wearing a pair of glasses.
Initially, he doesn't notice Brock. Instead, he's intently focusing on his computer game, erratically pressing the keys and clicking the mouse. His eyes are glued to the screen.
He's oblivious to the world. Oblivious to everything else but his video game.
He's totally in the zone.
Brock taps the bell on the desk and clears his throat. This startles the person sitting at the desk, "What the--?!"
The person turns his attention towards Brock and sighs, "What do you want?" He keeps his eyes on his game and pushes his glasses up his nose.
Brock, getting a bit impatient and worried as he can feel the sun coming up, snaps, "What do you think?!"
"Oh, right." The person shakes his head, still keeping his eyes on his game. He's still not paying Brock much attention.
He gets up from his chair, takes a set of keys, and carelessly tosses them over the counter to Brock. The keys fly into the air. They miss Brock and the counter and land on the floor.
Brock, annoyed, sighs and goes over to pick up the keys.
The person sitting at the desk doesn't even bother to help or look. He simply says, "Oh."
Brock grunts and looks at the keys. It's labeled: "118". Brock mutters under his breath, "Great service here." He walks over to the door leading to the room number.
He puts the key in and turns the knob.
The motel room is not exactly what one would call...clean. It's not too shabby either. Then again, for that price, one can't complain too much. Brock goes back down and retrieves Jon from his car.
It also helps that this is usually the kind of place where questions aren't asked.
Jon can barely walk and he's still drowsy from all the sedatives Brock's been giving him. Brock carries him in his arms into the motel room.
Once inside, he lays Jon down on the bed.
Jon groans, still muttering and babbling incoherently. He's still a bit groggy. He's struggling to keep his eyes open.
Brock looks at him with great concern. He then looks at the clock on the wall and sighs. It's almost dawn.
He goes over to the curtains and closes them. He proceeds to push a large, wooden cabinet to cover the windows. It's the only source of (natural) light in the room.
Brock looks down at his boyfriend. He's not sure what he's gonna do now.
What will happen next? Will Jon ever recover from that traumatizing...experience? Or is this the end of the line for them?
How exactly can Brock fix this? Can he? And how long can he keep it all a secret from Jon?
If his partner's family had to be slaughtered and he was saved by the same people who killed them, how could he continue?
HOW can he go on without him finding out?
Will Jon ever find out? CAN he ever find out? What will happen if he does? What will he do if he does?
Many questions swim through Brock's weary mind- many worries and concerns.
He knows of a Tremere back in Flimont City who can wipe memories, or suppress them, but said Tremere owes Dr. Collins (Brock's Sire) a favor. So, he knows the risks involved.
The last thing Brock wants (or needs) is to be indebted to a Warlock. So, this is clearly a problem. He knows he has to keep his boyfriend safe.
He knows he has to make sure that the truth of what happened that night at the McMahon mansion NEVER gets out.
Brock massages his temples and paces around the room. He's trying to come up with a plan. A plan to get Jon back. A plan to fix the poor man who had suffered a lot at the hands of his own family.
A plan, perhaps, to get him back to normal...or a new version of normal.
For a moment, a thought flashes into Brock's mind- perhaps Dr. Collins could Embrace Jon into Clan Tzimisce. Prince Roxanne would certainly have no issue as Dr. Collins is her Seneschal.
Then again, the Brujah might not be willing to take that risk. But, if he's Embraced, he might be of some use to the Flesh-Shapers.
Brock looks at Jon and says to himself, "An accountant. Hmmm. We could definitely use his services, especially with the SEC breathing down our necks for the past few years. If he's Embraced, he'll...make a fine addition to our Clan."
He cracks a quick smile. He likes this plan. It's hella risky, but it just might work. The only thing is getting Dr. Collins onboard. He doesn't seem too keen to Embrace new Childer.
He'd much rather keep his eyes on Brock.
But there are other, more prominent, and much older members of the Tzimisce Clan who'd be interested.
Brock sits on the bed and rubs the back of his neck. He's tired. He's been driving all night.
He yawns and stretches his arms. He then takes off his boots and socks.
He looks at Jon and asks himself, "Is it worth it? I care about him. Deeply. I see us having a future together. But, will he forgive me if, somehow, he finds out that I had a hand in the massacre of his entire family?"
Jon groans. Brock takes his hand and rubs it, gently.
Brock whispers, "Hey, buddy. You doin' OK? You need anything?"
Jon mumbles, "Wa--Water." He's thirsty and hungry. He hasn't eaten for a while.
Brock nods and gets up. He grabs a bottle of water from the creaky mini-fridge. The bottle feels a bit slimy. Brock grimaces as he goes into the kitchen to wash off the bottle.
He can't let Jon touch something this disgusting.
He closes the tap and wipes the bottle with the nearby towel. Jon weakly stands, holding onto the dresser for support. He's struggling to get up. He's unsteady. He's still a bit woozy.
Jon's eyes are half-closed. He's blinking rapidly.
Brock puts the bottle down and runs over to him, "Easy, easy, buddy."
Brock supports Jon and helps him stand. Jon's legs are a bit wobbly. He's struggling to walk. Brock holds him tightly.
"I've gotcha, buddy. I've gotcha."
Jon asks, "B--Brock? Is that...really you? You--you came for me?"
Brock nods, "Yes, I did, Jon."
Jon starts to cry. He hugs Brock tightly and buries his head into his shoulder.
Jon sobs, "I--I'm so scared. My--my body hurts all over. That--that man...he--"
Brock shushes him and says, "Shhhh. It's OK, Jon. Nobody's gonna hurt you ever again. I'm here now."
Jon's voice cracks, "You--you won't leave me, will you? Y--You won't let them take me ba--back to that...barn?"
"Never. I'll always protect you. I won't let anybody hurt you, ever again. You have my word. OK?"
Jon shakily says, "Th--thank you. I--I..."
Brock wipes away Jon's tears and holds him tight, "Shhh. Everything's gonna be OK. I'm gonna take you as far away from this place as possible. Where no one will ever find you. Where you can have a fresh start. I promise."
Jon sniffles, "R--really?"
Brock nods and holds Jon's chin. He looks into his eyes and says, "I'm here for you. I'll always be here for you."
Brock's lips are getting closer to Jon's. They're mere millimeters apart. Jon gulps. His breath is heavy. His weak heart is beating faster and faster.
Their lips are touching, but Jon pulls away and looks to the side, embarrassed. He can feel the blood rushing to his cheeks. He can feel the warmth on his face.
Brock sighs. He gently strokes Jon's cheek and says, "You've...been through a lot. Why don't we get some rest and figure things out later, OK?"
Jon nods. He's a bit shaken, but he feels relieved.
Brock takes Jon by the hand and leads him to the bed. He gently lays him down and covers him up with the blanket.
Brock clears his side of the bed and lays down his blood- and pus-stained medical sheet. It's still pretty gross. But, it's the only way he can stay Grounded- it's been like that ever since his Embrace.
He looks at the bed and the stained sheet and says, "I hate dragging this thing around, but what choice do I have, hmm?"
He sighs and lays down on his back, with his hands behind his head.
He looks at the ceiling and mutters, "Dr. Collins, you son of a bitch..."
He then rolls over and wraps his arms around Jon, holding him close. He's not sure what the future holds for him and Jon.
For now, all he can do is spoon his boyfriend and hold him close.
Jon, meanwhile is too disoriented, confused, and shaken up. He feels the cold arms of Brock wrap around his body and pull him in.
He's still shaking a bit, but he's starting to feel safe. He's starting to feel protected.
He's starting to feel cared for.
Jon shakily asks, "Who's...Collins?"
Brock twitches for a second. He gives a vague answer, "Someone. A mentor of sorts." Brock feels a bit of contempt for his own Sire, but a part of him is also (reluctantly) grateful.
Had Dr. Collins not put him back together all those years ago, he'd likely have died. Well, the man he used to be would have.
Now, he's a different person. A very different person.
Jon is still a bit confused, but he doesn't wanna press the matter any further.
Brock quickly reaches into his doctor bag and pulls out 2 sedative shots. He shakes his head. He doesn't want Jon to become dependent on these.
Jon says, "H--Hold me."
Brock sighs, "Just a...minute." He takes out a syringe and fills it up with the sedative. He then injects it into Jon's neck.
Jon winces. He feels a sharp pain in his neck.
Brock says, "Shhhh. Just a few more, till we're back in...safer...territory. Just a few more. Then, it'll all be over. OK?"
Jon groans and says, "O--OK." He's starting to feel woozy. Brock proceeds to inject the second vial of sedative.
Jon groans again. The feeling of the needle going into his neck is a very unpleasant sensation. He's a bit nauseous, but he manages to hold it in.
After the second injection, he feels sleepy. His eyelids are growing heavy.
He doesn't answer.
He's too exhausted. The sun is starting to rise.
Brock can now feel it. He can feel the lethargy kicking in as the questions swirl around his head. They're questions only beginning to emerge due to recent...events.
Yet, none can be answered right now. At least, not by him. All he can do is just lie here besides Jon and wait for the inevitable.
He's worried about what's gonna happen next. But, he knows one thing. If he's lucky, maybe he and Jon can have a future together.
Who knows?
For now, the gathering darkness of day-sleep is calling. He's not sure what tomorrow night holds, but he knows one thing- he'll wake up right there beside Jon, holding him tight and close.
Or at least that's what Brock hopes.
He's determined to see this through. Even if it means risking his Unlife and everything he's ever known.
Brock quietly drifts off, holding his boyfriend close.
As for Jon, the double-dose of sedatives is starting to kick in. He's growing sleepy. Yet, he still feels a bit woozy.
Brock's arms are tightly wrapped around Jon's shivering body. His hand is gently resting on his stomach.
Jon's eyes flutter open and shut as the sun slowly emerges.
Chapter 11: Departure
The sun rises in all its glory, beaming and radiant. Bright and shining. The Kindred of Plaintry (and elsewhere) are fast asleep. Mortals, meanwhile, are waking up and preparing for yet another day.
A new day full of work, school, family, friends, and life.
The possibilities are endless.
A few hours pass as the scent of freshly brewed coffee wafts throughout the streets and apartments of Plaintry. A few people are getting ready for the workday, while the young ones are getting ready for school.
Bicycle bells are ringing as people are leaving their houses. Traffic is getting heavier. More and more cars are moving about. The streets are getting crowded. The rush hour is starting.
The sun is getting higher and higher into the sky, beaming down upon the world below. It's bright and sunny. Beautiful.
Almost like a postcard.
A dream.
Bernice sits in front of a fancy dresser, one leg crossed over the other. Her hair is neatly combed. She's wearing her bathrobe. It's soft and green.
She's busy applying her makeup. She's putting on a show for the mirror, "I, Bernice Matthews, do hereby announce my withdrawal from the mayoral election."
She sighs as she reaches for the mascara.
She looks at her reflection and continues, "Due to personal reasons--"
She groans and rubs her temples, "I mean...fuck! This is stupid. I was supposed to see this through the end. Oh, the donors aren't going to be pleased. No, not one bit."
She tosses the mascara and grabs the lipstick, "This wasn't supposed to happen. N--Not like this. Not like this."
She then puts her hand on her forehead and slams her fist against the table, "Dammit!" She puts down the lipstick and goes to grab her clothes for today.
She chooses a low-cut, light-colored, polka dot sundress. She disrobes and changes, quickly slipping into the dress.
She looks at her reflection and says, "There. Now, I feel better. But I still have to get this over with."
Bernice asks herself, "Then what, hmmm? I probably have to look into returning all that...donation money."
"What a waste," she mutters as a frown comes across her face.
As she's lost in thought, she hears a knock on her bedroom door. She checks herself out in the mirror and says, "It's open. Come in."
A man's voice answers, "It's me, Tim. C--Can we talk?"
Tim, Bernice's assistant, is standing at the door with a cup of coffee in his hand. He's a foot shorter than Bernice. He's wearing his formal suit and tie. The tie has a print of tiny, white daisies.
Bernice warmly smiles and nods at him. She sits on her bed. "Come on in," she sighs, still visibly upset.
Tim approaches and offers the coffee to her. She accepts, but not without asking, "Espresso?"
"Yes. No sugar. Just how you like it," Tim gives her a smile.
"Thanks, Tim," she says as she sips on the hot drink. Her shoulders are slumping.
Tim clears his throat, "Are you ready for today?"
Bernice sighs and shrugs, "Ready to throw away years of my life...N--No, not really. You?"
Tim stands across her, hands clasped together. "I think it's gonna be OK."
"Oh, really?" Bernice looks at Tim with a raised brow.
"Y--Yeah. We'll get through it somehow."
Bernice gives him a mocking smile, "There's no coming back from what happened and you know it, Tim. The donor list is going to be in pieces by the end of the month. There's no doubt about that. It's going to be a shit show."
Tim gulps. He nervously chuckles. He's not quite sure how to respond to that.
He says, "Well, I mean we can f--find a way to bounce back. Isn't that what you always told me during our 'late-night talks'? To be resilient? To keep moving forward?"
Bernice huffs and says, "That was...different, Tim." She can't help but smile at her assistant. His optimism is infectious.
She shakes her head and continues, "It's a beautiful morning today, isn't it?"
"Y--Yeah. It is," he says as tics and spasms run through his face and body. He tries to calm himself down.
He takes a deep breath. He's sweating bullets. His muscles are tense.
Bernice continues, "My father always said you can never win a race unless you first set the pace."
Tim gulps, "Solid advice, Bernice."
Bernice asks, "How is your fiancé doing, Tim? I--I forgot her last name. Was it--"
Tim scowls, "Clark. Kendra Clark." He lowers his head and grinds his teeth. His eyes are tearing up a bit.
Bernice raises an eyebrow and says, "Oh, oh, I forgot. I--I'm so sorry about what happened to her. Exsanguinated and dumped on the side of the road? I'm truly sorry for your loss, Tim." She sighs and sips her coffee.
He lets out a long breath, "I--I know. I know."
Bernice invites her assistant to sit next to her. He gladly obliges, "Thank you, Bernice. Really. It's just that--" his voice cracks.
She rubs his shoulder, "Shhhh. It's ok."
Tim, with tears rolling down his hollow cheeks, sniffles and wipes the snot away with his sleeve. His lips are quivering.
He takes a deep breath and sighs, "I--I feel terrible, Bernice."
She gently places her hand on top of his, "It's going to be OK. Remember what I taught you during our..."
She leans closer and whispers into his ear, "...sessions? You can do this, Tim. You have it in you." She pats him on the back.
Tim smiles a little. He can't help but feel reassured by her words.
He leans closer and whispers back, "I--I think..."
"Yes?"
"I think Kendra was cheating on me."
Bernice snickers and says, "Come now, don't be absurd, Tim. You and her were perfect for each other. I've always said that. Haven't I?"
Tim looks away from Bernice and mutters, "Y--Yes."
She scoots closer, "So, where did you get that idea, then? Hmmm? Tell me."
Tim's hands are still shaking. He gulps and says, "It's just that she always had an excuse to not spend time together, y'know?"
He sighs, "She'd say she had meetings and other things to take care of. So, she had to stay late."
Bernice strokes his hair and says, "Now, Tim, you know better than to listen to your gut when it comes to matters of the heart."
She sips the last of her coffee. Tim instinctively takes the empty cup from her and looks at it, deep in thought. He's holding the porcelain cup, tightly.
He takes a deep breath and says, "I think there was another man."
Bernice is shocked by this revelation and gently pats Tim on the back, "Oh, my poor Timmy. I--I don't know what to say."
Tim shakes his head, "I--I think there's more to it, though."
"What makes you think so?"
Tim keeps staring into the empty cup and the lipstick stain on the rim. His eyes are wandering around it.
His mouth is open as he's trying to piece together his memories with his feelings.
He eventually responds, "When Kendra and I were...y'know, she...she whispered a name."
Bernice's interest is piqued, "What was his name?"
Tim's hands are trembling. He's struggling to keep a cool head and figure this out. He closes his eyes and sighs. He's breathing heavily.
He says, "S...Simon. She whispered 'Simon'. But--"
He puts his fingers on his temples. His eyes are wide open, but he's clearly overwhelmed.
Bernice holds him, "Shhhh. Take it easy. I'm sure this...Simon man is nobody."
Tim gulps, "I--I don't know. Maybe you're right, but it was weird."
Bernice gently pats his shoulder, "What was weird?"
Tim's gray eyes meet Bernice's hazel eyes, "Kendra was always so active and full of life, but in the weeks before her...before her death, she was...distant. I could tell something was wrong. I just couldn't put my finger on it."
He sighs, "I should've known." He looks down at the floor as a tear drops from his eye. He quickly wipes it away. He's frustrated. Angry. Sad. Confused. Hurt.
He doesn't know what to feel.
Bernice stands up and places her lips on his forehead, "Don't worry, Tim. Everything's going to be OK. The police will find whoever's responsible."
She gently strokes his cheek and gives him a reassuring smile, "You'll see. Everything's going to be fine. Just fine."
She then walks over to the dresser and puts on her earrings. She's wearing a pair of pearl studs. They used to belong to her maternal grandmother. She warmly smiles at her reflection. She's pleased with her appearance.
She's ready for the day. She's ready for the announcement.
She's ready to let go. She's ready to move on.
Or at least, that's what she's convincing herself of.
But is she truly ready?
Tim, a bit flushed, looks for something to wipe away the deep-red lipstick stain from his forehead. He's looking around the room, frantically.
Bernice smirks and hands him a wet wipe from her purse. He takes it and wipes away the mark. He avoids looking her in the eye. He's still a bit shaken up. He's still a bit...shocked.
He's still processing everything that's happened.
The name "Simon" keeps ringing in his ears. He can't get it out of his head. He fantasizes about what he'll do if he ever meets this mysterious man. He'll break his bones. He'll make him suffer. He'll make him pay.
He'll make him regret ever being born.
Of course, little did Tim know that The Elder Lasombra's been "dead" longer than the United States has been a country. Not to mention, Simon could very well end Tim in mere seconds.
For now, however, Tim remains in (not-so-blissful) ignorance. He bows his head, thanks Bernice, and leaves her room.
Bernice stands in front of the mirror, staring idly at her reflection. She's lost in her own thoughts. She's thinking about the announcement and what comes after.
She likely won't be able to show up at the DNC (Democratic National Convention). That's a given. She's already made her decision. She's already decided to withdraw from the election. She's already decided to give up her dream.
Her goal. Her ambition.
She thinks to herself, "Maybe someone at Yale will hook me up with something...nice. Or maybe I'll become a consultant?"
She whispers, "Or a lobbyist? A lot of money in that. Hmmm." She's starting to get excited. She's starting to feel better. She's starting to feel hopeful.
She takes a deep breath and says, "Yes. Political Lobbying is where it's at. In time, I'll be the envy of everyone," she smiles proudly at her reflection.
She checks herself over one last time, sprays some purple perfume, and walks out of her room. She's ready to face the music. She's ready to announce her withdrawal from the mayoral race.
She's ready to move on. She's ready for what comes next.
But was she TRULY ready for what comes next?
Outside her huge garden, a small crowd has gathered. They're all holding cameras, tape recorders, microphones, and notepads. They're waiting for her.
They're waiting for her to come out and make her announcement.
Some of these vultures have been outside her place for the past few days due to...recent happenings.
Bernice, with a big plastered smile on her face, steps out of her house. She's greeted by the flashes of cameras and the shouts of reporters.
She waves to the crowd and says, "Good morning, everyone." She's trying to sound cheerful and optimistic.
Tim stands besides her and whispers, "Are you ready, Bernice?" He's holding a clipboard and pen. He's got his game face on. He's all business. He's all work.
He's ready.
Bernice waves and gives a toothy smile to the cameras before responding, "Ready as I'll ever be." She carries herself with an aura of self-assurance that is quite unparalleled.
Tim nods and says, "Good. Now, let's get this over with."
He steps forward, raises his hands, and says, "Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for being here today."
He pauses and looks around, "I present to you, Miss Bernice Matthews," he gestures towards Bernice.
She steps forward and clears her throat, "Thank you, Tim. Thank you, everyone. I'd like to start by saying that I'm truly sorry for the recent events that have taken place in our beloved town." She's speaking with a sense of authority.
She's already got the crowd in the palm of her hand.
She takes a few moments and continues, "I don't wish to beat around the bush..."
She stops for a forced laugh as she gestures to the bushes around her, "...but I'm afraid I have no choice but to announce my withdrawal from the mayoral race." She takes a deep breath and looks directly at the crowd.
They're all silent. Cameras zoom into her face. Reporters are furiously scribbling down notes.
Tim is standing next to her, with a stoic expression on his face. He's doing his best to hide his emotions.
Bernice purses her lips and continues, "I wish the best of luck to my opponent, Mayor Duncan Costner."
She pauses for a moment and adds, "Our disagreements were few, but they were serious. I believe that the future of Plaintry lies in the hands of those who are willing to stand up for what they believe in. I believe that the future of this town lies in the hands of those who are willing to fight for what's right."
She gives a firm nod. She then takes a deep breath and says, "I wish Mayor Duncan the best for his...second term." She gives a slight smile and looks at the crowd.
They're all silent. Some of them are still taking notes. Others are just staring at her.
They expected as much, especially considering that she's avoiding talking about what happened between her and Annette.
Bernice wraps up by saying, "May God bless Plaintry and may God bless the United States of America! Thank you." She gives a wave and a smile.
The reporters and cameramen start to leave. Some of them are disappointed. Some of them are relieved. Some of them are angry.
They wanted more.
One reporter, a man in his late-20s approaches Bernice and puts a recording device in her face, "Ms. Bernice, do you have any comments on the recent events involving you and Ms. Annette?" He's eager to get a quote.
Bernice sighs and rolls her eyes, "I've already posted an extensive statement on my website. If you have any further questions, please refer to it." She then walks away.
Tim grimaces and follows her. He's still holding the clipboard and pen.
Bernice walks back in her house. She's visibly upset. She leans against the door and places her head on the door frame.
She takes a deep breath and mutters, "Well, that's that." She lets out a long sigh.
Tim places his hand on her shoulder, "It's done, Bernice. B--But it was fun while it lasted, huh? Hahaha," he forces out a chuckle.
Bernice shrugs off his hand and says, "Yeah. It was."
She then says, "I'd like you to take the rest of the day off, Tim." She's looking at the ground, avoiding eye contact.
Tim nods, "O--OK. If that's what you want, Bernice."
"You need it, Tim. Once again, I'm truly sorry about your loss."
Tim pensively looks at the floor and says, "I--I appreciate that, Bernice. I really do."
He looks at her and says, "If there's anything I can do for you, anything at all--"
Bernice places her finger on his dry lips, "You've done more than enough, Tim. Now, go."
Tim gulps and nods, "Y--Yes, Bernice. I'll see you later." He turns around and leaves.
He proceeds to gather his things and leave the house. He waves goodbye and walks towards his car.
Bernice looks at him through her window and notices that he's stopped to talk to 2 police officers. She squints her eyes and tries to read their lips.
She can't quite make out what they're saying.
Officers Jenn and Neil approach Tim. They were the officers who found Kendra's drained body while out on patrol.
Upon seeing them, Tim gets visibly upset. He's trying to hold back tears.
Jenn walks up and says, "Good morning, Tim. Doing OK?"
Neil simply nods as he places his hands on his hips, causing his gut to bulge out.
Tim nods and replies, "I--I'm doing fine. What brings you here? Have--have you found anything, officers? Any--anything at all?"
Jenn says, "Nothing yet. All our resources have been diverted to investigating the McMahon mansion fire...it's been crazy."
Neil nods, "Very busy."
Tim sighs and angrily says, "I'm sorry to hear that. I just hope you divert SOME resources to catch the freak-bastard who did this to Kendra. I want him to pay. I want him to suffer. I want him to rot in prison!"
Jenn and Neil exchange glances.
Jenn then says, "Our detectives are doing their best, Tim. But the Feds need all hands on deck for the McMahon case."
Neil adds, "We're stretched thin, but we're doing our best."
Tim grunts and clenches his fists, "Doing your best isn't good enough. This could happen AGAIN! Do you really want MORE exsanguinated bodies all over Plaintry?!"
Jenn sighs and firmly says, "Look, Tim. We're doing our best. There's only so much we can handle, alright?"
Tim frowns, "'Exsanguinated' is NOT a word you quickly forget, officers. It's not something that can be easily brushed off. You NEED to find whoever's responsible and make him pay!"
Jenn rolls her eyes and Neil just stands there with a blank and indifferent expression on his face.
Neil opens his mouth and says, "If you have any more info--"
Tim interrupts, "A--Actually, I have a potential suspect you can look into."
Jenn pulls out a notepad and pen, "Ah, now we're getting somewhere. Who?"
"All I got is a name- S--Simon," Tim says while looking away and scratching the back of his neck. His voice is quivering a little. He's struggling to keep it together.
He's fighting back the tears.
Jenn sarcastically remarks, "Wow, that sure is a lotta info."
Neil tries his best to hold back a snicker.
Tim stares daggers at them and says, "H--Hey, have some fuckin' respect! My fiancé's dead and you 2 have the g--gall to snicker at me?" He's visibly pissed.
His arms are crossed. He's tapping his feet.
Neil walks right up to Tim's face, "Don't you dare disrespect the badge, pal. We're trying to help you out here."
Jenn puts her hand on Neil's shoulder, "We're doing everything we can."
Neil grunts, "What she said."
Tim doesn't wanna become a police violence statistic, so he places both hands up and steps back. He's trying his best to calm down.
He's holding his anger and frustration in. He's trying his best to hold his tongue as well.
He politely nods, "If you find...anything about this Simon guy, p--please let me know."
He pauses as his mouth quivers, "I appreciate your efforts, officers. Truly." He looks away. He's not quite sure what to say next.
Jenn nods, "We'll be in touch. Anything else you wanna tell us about this Simon guy? What he looks like? Where he's from? Any other details?"
Tim sighs, "No. That's all I got."
He hesitates as his eyes shift around the floor, "I uh...think Kendra was cheating on--on me, with...him."
Neil raises an eyebrow, "Huh. How so?"
Tim shakes his head, "Before her death, she was distant and secretive. She'd always have an excuse..." his voice trails off as he looks up.
Jenn and Neil exchange glances, "OK. We'll look into it. It's worth a shot." Jenn takes down the info in her notepad.
Tim nods and goes to his car without saying another word. He gets in, turns on the ignition, and drives off.
Bernice sees Tim getting into his car and driving away.
As he's driving down the road, he can't help but feel the bile rise from the pit of his stomach. He feels like throwing up.
He promptly slams the brakes, pulls over, and proceeds to vomit onto the side of the road.
His breakfast comes spewing out. It's mostly coffee and scones. Poor guy.
He wipes his mouth, pops a mint in his mouth, and drives off again.
Officers Jenn and Neil take their leave. They see Bernice watching them like a hawk.
They politely wave and walk back to their squad car.
Neil says, "I want pancakes for breakfast today, Jenn!"
Jenn groans, "Fine, fine. I'm paying. My...treat."
"YEAH! I love you, baby."
Jenn rolls her eyes and smiles, "I love you too, ya big dummy."
As the 2 cops are leaving, a black SUV rolls up next to them. The tinted windows are rolled down. A man is inside. He's looking at them.
He gets off and removes his aviators.
It's Special Agent Higgins with the FBI. What's he doing in front of Bernice's house?
Why is he here?
He walks past the squad car and approaches the porch. He's wearing a black suit and blue tie along with a strange-looking lapel pin. He's got a badge clipped on his brown belt.
He rings the doorbell.
By now, Jenn and Neil have already left the area to go and grab the most important meal of the day.
Bernice answers with a smile on her face, "G--Good morning, what brings you here?" She's trying her best to sound enthusiastic.
Higgins smiles from ear to ear, "Ms. Matthews. It is truly a pleasure to meet you." He takes her hand in both his hands and gives it a good shake.
She politely nods, "Thank you...err--"
"Ah, Special Agent Higgins with the Federal Bureau of Investigation."
Bernice slightly nods, "Always a pleasure to meet those in law enforcement. What brings you here today, special agent?" She's trying to hide her skepticism.
Higgins smiles, "I just want to say that it is an honor to meet the daughter of Arlene Matthews. We still read her field manuals back at Quantico from time to time."
Bernice warmly smiles, "Ah. That's lovely. Why don't you come in, Agent Higgins?"
Higgins nods and follows her into her house.
He takes a seat on the couch.
She sits across from him, "So, what can I do for you today?"
Higgins looks around her house, "A fine abode you got here, Ms. Matthews."
"Yes, indeed. Only the best that money can buy. And please, call me Bernice."
He gives her a firm nod, "Of course, Bernice."
"So, what can I help you with, agent?"
"Well, I'm sorry about what happened to you. I'm sure it ain't easy. Can't be easy for your parents, too."
She's not quite sure how to respond.
Higgins continues, "As you well know, the FBI has been called in to investigate a high-profile case--"
She looks away and sighs, "The McMahon mansion fire. Tragic." She says the last part like she rehearsed it a few times.
Higgins shakes his head and says, "It's truly a shame. The McMahons...were fine people, but not without their issues. Some of which involved--"
She's looking straight into Higgins's eyes, "'Hot button' issues..."
"Yes. Anyway, we've been called in to investigate."
"So, it was arson, then? But how does an entire mansion burn down overnight? No one saw anything? It's impossible!"
Higgins responds, "We're not jumpin' to conclusions just yet, but there's a lot that's puzzling us."
He stops himself from divulging more, "However, I'm 'fraid I cannot discuss the details of an ongoing investigation with you."
Bernice raises an eyebrow, "Well, that's a shame."
He nods, "Yes, indeed."
He pauses for a moment and taps his foot, "Can I speak freely, Ms. Bernice?"
"Of course. If that's what you prefer, please feel free."
Special Agent Higgins clears his throat, "What those bastards in the media are doin' to your parents isn't fair. They're sayin' all kinds of nasty things about 'em and I can't stand it!"
Bernice is taken aback, "U--Um. Yes, it's quite an ordeal for all of us. My parents are both strong, though. They can handle it."
Higgins nods, "I try to stay away from most of it, but I hear your folks have been called war criminals, am I right?"
Bernice shrugs, "Well, that's only a part of the...slander. My father was a decorated officer who served his country. He was a hero, and my mother was a decorated officer as well, albeit in a different capacity. So, I'm sure they'll get over it."
Higgins cracks his knuckles, "We should be thankin' people like your folks for their service, not throwin' them to the wolves. There's so many people out there who don't know what they've done for our country!"
Bernice nods, "It's a different...political landscape compared to back in the day."
"You bet. You bet. The feds will do everything we can to make sure your parents...win." He gives her a sly but reassuring smile.
Bernice smiles back, "Well, um...that's very kind of you, agent. Thank you."
Higgins wipes his brow and says, "We should really keep in touch. I feel that you may be of use to us one day."
Bernice raises an eyebrow, "'Us?'"
Higgins leans closer and lowers his voice, "I represent an organization that works toward the betterment of our great nation."
He looks around and continues, "Towards...the cleansing of this great country."
"Ah. I see."
He gives her a big grin, "Oh, no need to fear. You're safe. This ain't no weirdo cult or anything of that nature. We believe, that should your parents be cleared of all wrongdoing, and should the McMahon case be solved, we'd like to recruit you...and your parents into this organization."
"Wow, that's very generous of you, agent."
"Oh, no pressure, Bernice," he reassures her with a hearty, southern drawl.
He continues, "But it is quite the opportunity to serve one's country. No greater honor than that, hmmm?" He grins from ear to ear while gauging what her reaction would be.
Bernice purses her lips, "Assuming they even win, but what exactly is this organization of yours all about?" She's skeptical.
Higgins warmly smiles, "An organization who wishes to see America be the shining city on the hill that it used to be. Like-minded people who want to restore this great nation to its former glory."
He pauses for effect and says, "I can see that you are the type of person we could use...with that sparkle in your eyes." He chuckles a little.
Bernice politely smiles, "And how exactly can you people help my parents with their...situation?" Her smile quickly turns into a frown.
Higgins dryly says, "With our political and financial backing, I can assure you that the slander will stop. We got people in the system who can make sure that those court cases get tossed out, and we'll help your parents return to...normal life in no time. Everything will be a distant memory." His grin grows wider.
Bernice's jaw drops a little, "Y--You're actually capable of that?" Her eyes light up. Her mood shifts. She's clearly intrigued by the offer.
She's excited by the possibilities (not just for her parents, but for her as well).
Higgins clasps his hands together and says, "We are capable of so much, Bernice. So. Very. Much." His smile grows wider. His eyes are locked onto Bernice's.
He's reading her every expression like they taught him back in Quantico.
He can smell the hunger for power coming off her like cheap perfume. He knows she'll take his bait. He knows that she'll agree to it.
She'll agree to anything that will make her feel important. That will make her feel special. That will give her an advantage in this world.
Bernice bites her lip and reads her guest's face- desperation and eagerness in equal measures. The subtle tics, the shifting eyes. He's waiting on the edge of his seat for her answer.
She finally replies, "I'll...need time to think this over, Special Agent Higgins."
Higgins refrains from reacting negatively, "That's fine, Bernice. That's totally fine. You can always get in touch with us should you be interested. You're a bright young lady. You have your parents to thank for raising such an...exceptional person. And, like I said, we could use a woman with your drive and ambition in this organization of ours."
He stands up and shakes the specks of dirt off his jacket, "And I mean that. So, I hope to hear back from you...soon. I'm gonna let myself out, but we'll be in touch, Bernice." He then heads for the door.
She nods, "Have a good day, Agent."
Before he leaves, he hands her a card, "Anytime you wanna talk, or need anything, or...wanna be recruited into the best damn thing to ever happen to this nation, don't hesitate to gimme a holler."
Bernice narrows her eyes and notices the agent's strange-looking lapel pin. It's a silver pin with the words: "St. Michael Protect Us".
She places her finger on the lapel pin and says, "What exactly is this, agent? I haven't seen anything quite like it before." Her eyes are glued to it.
She's trying to analyze it. She's trying to figure it out.
Higgins softly chuckles, "A reminder, Bernice. A reminder that we have an unseen but powerful ally in our struggle for the preservation of our nation's heritage. A battle against the forces of evil."
Bernice merely nods, "Hmmm. Interesting."
Higgins notices the look on Bernice's face, "You don't...believe?" His face is like a stone.
Bernice smiles, "It's...complicated, agent." She's lying through her teeth, but she's not about to give this guy a reason to doubt her. He could come in handy in the future.
And plus, it's best not to anger someone in a secret organization with connections to the FBI and who-knows-who else. Better safe than sorry.
Higgins grins and pats her back, "Don't you worry. I'm sure you'll come around. I better be goin' now. Take care, Bernice! And please, give some thought to what we discussed!" He heads for the door.
She politely smiles and says, "Thank you for coming. I will, agent. When the time's right, you'll hear back from me."
She then escorts him out and shakes his hand one last time before shutting the door behind him.
She heads into the kitchen. She takes out a glass from the cabinet, pours some white wine from the fridge into the glass, and starts sipping on it.
Her mind is racing. It's spinning like crazy. It's filled with all sorts of thoughts. All sorts of possibilities.
All sorts of plans. All sorts of dreams.
All sorts of schemes. She keeps staring at the card the agent gave her. She shrugs and says to herself, "Maybe this could lead to something." She doesn't wanna jump to any conclusions.
Not yet, anyway. But the possibilities...
Oh, the possibilities. They excite her.
Agent Higgins gets in his SUV and pulls out his cellphone. It's an older Nokia flip phone that's scratched up and scuffed all around.
He dials a number and waits.
He drums his fingers on the car's dashboard and hums to himself as he waits. He looks outside his car window. He's just taking in the view.
After a few minutes of waiting, a man on the other end answers, "Yes?"
"Higgins. FBI. Designation: Alpha-Delta-Echo-Foxtrot-November-Charlie. 118007."
The man on the other end responds, "Code verified."
The man continues, "Connecting you now." The man's voice is calm. His tone is low. His pace is slow.
"Yes, hello, agent. What news do you bring?" A woman's voice comes over the line. It's clearly a woman in her 40s. She speaks with a slight (almost unnoticeable) accent.
"Greetings, Ms. Nicolaides," Higgins is still tapping his fingers on the dashboard as a look of frustration comes upon his face.
He forces a smile and continues, "It's done. I've made contact with...Bernice. She seems skeptical but open-minded." He clears his throat as he nervously adjusts his tie.
He doesn't like this woman. He doesn't like talking to her. He doesn't like dealing with her at all.
Ms. Nicolaides responds, "Hmph. Very well. And what of the McMahon investigation? Any leads? Anything new?" There's an impatient tone to her voice. It's as if she's getting impatient with this agent.
Agent Higgins's mouth twists a little bit, "Unfortunately, no. We got the media playing the accident angle. Got some people in forensics going through the evidence as we speak. Ain't much to report, yet. Just waitin' for results, is all. We should know more soon." He takes a sip of water.
"I see, I see. And what of the primary operation in the region?"
Higgins gets annoyed, "Operation Memphis Green is...proceeding according to schedule. We are working closely with our associates here, and--"
He pauses for a second, "--and they're quite...capable people. We have high hopes for them, Ms. Nicolaides."
She asks, "Have you made contact with any of those...creatures yet?"
"Negatory. No blank bodies have been sighted in months."
Ms. Nicolaides nods and frowns a bit, "That will be all, Special Agent Higgins. Keep me updated. Goodbye."
"Understood."
He angrily taps the red end call button on the Nokia. He then sneers, "Bitch! Who does she think she is! This is MY goddamn op!"
He looks to his lapel and straightens the lapel pin as he smiles to himself. His mood shifts.
He drives off into the distance, while keeping an eye on Bernice's house as he's leaving the area. He puts his aviators back on and adjusts his hair in the mirror.
His phone buzzes. It's a message. He stops his car in the middle of the road and reads it.
The text message reads: "Urgent. Found something. Get here ASAP. You need to see this."
Higgins sighs, "Better be worth my time." He replies: "Be there soon." He puts his phone away and continues driving.
Meanwhile, on the other side of town...
The 4 travelers from out of town sit around a square table. A waitress squeezes her way past some patrons, heading straight for them.
The waitress sets down 2 glasses of green tea on the table.
"Your food will be here shortly," she says to the group.
Gunnar says, "Good! I'm hungry! You do not want to keep a German man hungry for long, you know? This could lead to bad things happening." He rubs his tummy and gives her a toothy smile.
The waitress blushes a bit and smiles back.
Torvald chuckles at his joke and says, "Mm-hmm." He gently blows on his tea and takes a few sips of it.
Anja shakes her head as she looks around. The place is a bit crowded for her tastes.
She holds the cup of green tea in both her hands and gently blows on it before taking a sip.
Emi has her phone out. She's tapping on the screen as a look of boredom forms on her face.
Torvald looks at Gunnar and asks, "Are you ready, Gunnar?"
Gunnar smiles from ear to ear, "As soon as scrambled eggs and sausages enter my body, I will be ready for anything!"
Anja shakes her head.
Gunnar turns to Emi and asks, "So, are YOU ready, cub?"
Emi doesn't reply as she's too fixated on her phone.
Anja reaches forward and yanks the thing from her hands, "For once, stop looking at screens and answer the question, Emi."
Torvald raises his hand to calm everyone down, "Come now. Let us not start fights before breakfast, all right?"
Gunnar says, "I am always ready, but Emi insisted that she lead...the attack." His gaze shifts to Emi. His face is unreadable.
Emi tugs on her earlobe as she avoids looking into Gunnar's eyes.
She shifts in her seat before replying, "I...I'm ready for this." Her voice is quivering.
Torvald narrows his eyes and simply nods before going back to sipping his green tea.
Anja groans and slides Emi's phone back to her, "Just don't mess it up, OK?" She lets out a heavy sigh and sits back in her seat. She's clearly agitated.
Gunnar presses his lips together, puts his hand on Emi's shoulder, and says, "I trust you, Emi. But you NEED to focused." He smiles at her. He gives her a reassuring nod.
Emi sheepishly smiles, "I--I promise to be focused, Gunnar. Thank you."
She looks at Torvald and Anja, "I won't let any of you down. I prom--promise." She's speaking softly. Her words come out more like a whisper. She's trying to conceal her nervousness.
Torvald puts his hand on hers, "We trust you, Emi. But, do you trust yourself? Hmmm? Can you do it?" He's clearly concerned for her. He's trying his best to look her in the eyes.
He's trying his best to convey his support.
Emi blinks rapidly as she feels a lump form in her throat. Her eyes start to water. She forces a smile as she wipes her face.
She then nods. She says, "Yes, Torvald. I do."
Anja, with an unreadable look on her face, watches Emi. Her gaze pierces Emi like a blade. Her eyes are locked onto hers. She's gauging Emi's true intentions. She's judging her every move.
Anja's eyes then look away as the waitress comes back with the plates. The plates contain 2 large omelets with sausages and bacon. They're smothered in butter and covered in a heavy amount of black pepper.
There's also a few pancakes and waffles covered in jam and honey.
Gunnar rubs his hands together as he sits up straight and lets out a little grunt. He's already drooling. He's getting hungry. He's eager to dig in. He can't wait any longer.
He thanks the waitress, "Danke!" He gives her a big grin as she smiles back at him. She quickly retreats before he could start eating.
He's already picking up his fork and knife.
Emi reaches for another phone in her pocket. She takes a deep breath and gulps before taking out the phone. She opens the camera app and holds it up. She's about to take a selfie.
She asks if anyone wants to be in the picture with her. Anja declines. Torvald politely shakes his head.
Gunnar says, "Sure! Why not? We might as well make some...memories while we're here." He places his arm around Emi and flashes a big grin. He looks at the camera as Emi takes the picture.
Emi grabs a waffle and grimaces at how soggy it feels. She pokes it a few times with her finger. She makes a disgusted face and shoves it away.
Torvald says, "Oh, come on now. Give it a try. I'm sure it tastes...better than it looks."
Gunnar, with his mouth full of food, says, "Yes, cub. You need your energy for what comes next! You must eat well, OK?" He focuses back on his plate, munching on some sausages and bacon.
Anja looks at Emi and simply says, "You ordered it after seeing pictures of it on the Internet. Pfft."
Emi lowers her head and reluctantly pulls the plate towards her. She gives her waffle a look.
Torvald pats her on the back, "Gunnar is right. You're going to need your energy for the task ahead of us. I'm sure that it's going to be tough, so eat up." He gives her a firm nod.
Emi sighs and cuts a small piece of waffle with her knife. She shoves it in her mouth. She makes a face.
That face soon turns into one of joy. She nods her head up and down while chewing, "It...tastes much better than it looks, I must admit."
She smiles and says, "Thank you, Torvald. Gunnar. And...Anja."
Torvald smiles back, "Of course."
Gunnar laughs and goes back to eating.
Anja crosses her legs and goes back to sipping her tea.
Torvald takes a bite of a pancake and says, "Good." He nods to himself.
After breakfast, the 4 of them decide to walk around the town.
They plan for the attack on the garage in the afternoon once Gus's family arrives.
It's late in the afternoon now. The sun is high. There are fewer and fewer people on the streets.
Agent Higgins is in a small, cramped up room with a few other FBI agents.
They're all gathered around a man, hunched over a computer screen. They're all peering closely at the screen as they watch and listen intently.
One of the agents says, "This is what we were able to recover from the McMahon mansion."
Higgins barks, "That's it?! 7 goddamn seconds of blurry footage?! Goddammit!" He's not exactly thrilled.
The agent replies, "It's the best we got. Ms. Nicolaides ordered we keep tabs on the McMahons by installing hidden cameras inside the mansion. This one was from the study, I think."
Higgins lets out a heavy sigh, "Well, I guess it's better than nothing."
The man hunched over the computer screen dryly asks, "You...wanna see it again??"
The footage is horribly grainy but it clearly shows an unknown person whose face is...distorted attacking what looks like the McMahon patriarch. A blurry hand swishes and blood sprays from his neck and face.
The footage cuts off before looping again. 7 seconds isn't much and the overall quality of the image is poor. The quality is quite awful.
One of the agents asks, "Was this in any way edited? Some kind of snuff thing?" He sounds unsure about his own question.
The tech says, "Nah, no signs of external manipulation."
Higgins asks, "What about the other hidden cams?"
Another agent gathered around the screen says, "Nothing on those are...usable. Just static...or ash."
Higgins looks at the screen and scratches his chin, "How do you explain the blurs and distortion?"
An agent confidently speaks up, "At least we have evidence of potential blank body involvement. We know this wasn't...human. Not with these results."
Higgins looks at the screen with his eyes half-closed, "Hmmm." He can't deny the obvious. Mansions don't just come burning down to the ground.
The tech asks, "Should I send this to Ms. Nicolaides? She'd be--"
Higgins bluntly responds, "SHE doesn't run this op. I run this op."
He pauses as he decides what his next words should be, "We're gonna need backup. Get local PD involved. Also, I'm gonna need clearance to bring in some...specialists." He looks at the screen, concerned.
He then says, "Good job, team." He leaves the room and heads towards his temporary office.
Higgins picks up a landline phone and dials a number. He fiddles with his lapel pin while waiting for the person on the other end to pick up.
A female voice answers, "Go ahead."
"Higgins here. I'm gonna need you to dispatch multiple tac teams to the town of Plaintry. Priority request. Potential blank body activity," Higgins dryly says.
The lady on the other end responds, "Flamethrowers, wooden stakes, small arms, and AP ammo. According to Response Level 1. Confirmation code: Alpha-Niner-Zulu-One-Niner."
Higgins replies, "Affirmative. ETA?"
"16 hours. Dispatching teams Echo, Foxtrot, Sierra, Omega, and Tango to Plaintry."
"Understood. Local PD will be utilized should the need occur."
"Roger that. Will liaison with the LEOs. See ya."
Higgins hangs up.
He sinks into his seat.
His eyes are fixated on the St. Michael symbol on his lapel pin. He strokes it a few times and mutters the words to himself, "Saint Michael...protect us."
He closes his eyes.
His mind wanders. It's filled with all sorts of thoughts. All sorts of emotions.
All sorts of plans. All sorts of ideas.
He and Ms. Nicolaides don't see eye to eye. To him, she's nothing but red tape in human form. But, she's capable. Very capable.
He'll have to work with her if he wants his dream to come true.
For now, at least.
Special Agent Higgins spends the next few hours catching up with the town's local news, making sure to keep an eye out for anything...interesting.
He rewatches the viral video of Annette and Maya arguing with each other.
He chuckles as he hears Maya saying: "She slept with the mayoral candidate, how's that for a scoop?!"
He skips to the part where Annette says: "--lowlife BITCH believes that vampires bite her at night and take her blood!"
Higgins pauses the video and mutters to himself, "I really need to speak to this Maya woman ASAP. She ain't at her home address and her boss at Nimbus ain't cooperative. Shit, I hope she hasn't left the state."
He wonders how he'll get her to talk. He wonders what she'll say.
He didn't know that Maya was now one of...them.
A "blank body" or whatever they're supposed to be called.
For now, he relaxes on his creaky old office chair while looking out the window. He watches the town go by.
The sun will set soon and he knows that's when things get interesting.
He makes it a priority to track down and speak to Maya about certain...things, even if it means getting that information through questionable methods.
Agent Higgins decides to rest for the time being. He heads to the nearby bathroom, flips on the light, and stares at his reflection in the mirror.
He splashes some water on his face, applies some soap to his hands, and proceeds to scrub his face.
As he's washing his face, he feels like someone (or something) is...watching him.
Higgins jerks his head to the right and stares at the mirror. He stares at the door. There's nothing there. No one behind him.
Jumpy.
He then rubs his face with a towel and heads to a nearby diner for a quick afternoon snack.
A few hours pass and the sun is only beginning to retreat, signaling that it's time for the Kindred to awaken from their long morning slumber.
Little by little, the sun slowly starts to lower into the horizon as its bright colors paint the sky with an array of hues.
It's almost 7 PM.
Lucile's eyes bat open. She lets out a groan as she looks around, "What time is it?"
She's still lying on Maya's bosom, "Huh. Oh. Yeah..." She warmly smiles as she notices Maya waking up. She's enjoying her close proximity. She doesn't wanna get up just yet.
She wants to be held. To feel her close. To be surrounded by her loving embrace.
But, she's got a job to do.
Maya, still drowsy, ruffles Lucile's hair and says, "Hmph. Don't go. Stay."
Lucile kisses Maya on the lips and says, "It's too late now. I'm sorry."
Maya immediately jolts up, "LUCILE! D--Did you hear that?!"
Lucile places her hands on Maya's shoulders, "Whoa! Hear what?"
Maya's lips quiver.
"Hear what? What is it?!" Lucile sounds alarmed. She's getting anxious.
Maya looks to Lucile with fear and uncertainty in her eyes, "Howling..."
"H--Howling??" Lucile narrows her eyes and looks around the bedroom.
Maya grips Lucile's hands tightly, "I--I heard it just now. It was loud a--and scary."
"I heard nothing, Maya. Nothing at all. I'm pretty sure it was just a dream, that's all." She hugs Maya close. Lucile holds Maya's head against her chest.
Maya buries her face against Lucile's bosom and closes her eyes, "You sure?" She's trembling a little.
Maya continues, "Maybe...maybe my Auspex triggered as I was waking up."
Lucile softly rubs Maya's back, "Shhh. Maybe. Or it could've been a dream. It's nothing to worry about, Maya."
"I don't wanna let go of you, Lucile. I--I need this. Please." She clings onto Lucile.
Lucile nods and strokes her hair, "All right, Maya. We'll stay like this for a few more minutes."
"I'm gonna miss you so much, Lucile."
"I'm gonna miss you too, my poinsettia."
Maya pleads, "Just make sure you come back to me, all right? I won't accept anything less, you hear?" She holds onto Lucile as tight as possible. She never wants to let go.
Lucile rocks back and forth, smiling, "And YOU promise me that you won't do anything stupid, got it?"
Maya replies, "I won't. Promise." She holds onto her with everything she has.
The 2 of them stay in bed for a few moments before Lucile kisses Maya on the forehead and heads for the shower.
Lucile turns around and says, "It's gonna be a quick shower...you're welcome to join me."
Maya slowly rises and stretches out.
Maya is already on her feet by the time the water comes on in the shower.
Lucile steps in and lets the water cascade down her body, "Maya?" She looks over and sees Maya standing there.
She gives her a soft smile, "Care to join me?" She wags her finger for Maya to come in.
Maya slowly walks up and places her hands around Lucile's waist.
She leans in and gives Lucile a kiss on the lips.
"I just wanna hold you, Lucile," Maya whispers in her ear.
"Hmmm," Lucile feels Maya's body pressed against hers.
Lucile says, "Ah, what the hell. We got time. Hold me for as long as you'd like, Maya."
Maya tightens her grip and sways from side to side as the warm water makes its way down both their naked bodies.
"I love you so much."
"Me too, Maya. I love you more."
After their shower, Lucile dries herself and picks out outfits for tonight and the nights ahead. She grabs a small suitcase and shoves a bunch of clothes and other essentials into it.
For tonight's outfit, Lucile wears a pair of blue jeans, a plaid shirt, a cropped denim jacket, and a pair of sneakers. Her hair is combed to the side and she applies some light makeup.
She picks up her suitcase and walks upstairs to the living room.
Maya slips into a pair of gray track pants and a loose white shirt with an assortment of patterns on it. She wears a pair of red slides on her feet. She walks upstairs.
They're both in the living room now. Lucile is on her phone. She scrolls through it as Maya comes and sits down next to her.
Lucile looks up from her phone, "I won't be taking this with me. I'm sure you know why. You can use it if you want." She hands her phone over to Maya.
Maya takes the phone and says, "But...what if it's an emergency?"
Lucile places her hands over Maya's, "I've already memorized all the important numbers. Don't worry, sweetie," she smiles at her.
"OK. I trust you, Lucile."
Maya puts the phone on the nearby table and places her hand around Lucile's back. She closes her eyes and kisses her on the cheek.
They're looking at each other with so much love in their eyes.
Maya asks, "So, how will we use that...thing that Bobby set up for us? You won't be taking your laptop with you, right?"
Lucile replies, "Eh. I'll find a way. Don't worry, we'll talk every night. Even if it's just for 90 seconds or so."
Maya groans, "I wish it was a lot longer than that..."
"I know, sweetie. But we gotta be grateful for what we have. It's better than nothing," Lucile hugs her closer.
Lucile checks the time, "It's time." She turns to Maya and hugs her. She rubs her back, "Don't do anything stupid. Keep my garden beautiful. Be good. I'll come home soon, Maya. I promise. I'll be back before you know it."
Maya says, "And PLEASE don't take any unnecessary risks, Lucile. You come home safe and sound."
Lucile confidently replies, "You just make sure you've found us a nice vacay spot in Canada, Maya."
They kiss.
Lucile opens the front door and is greeted by quite a sight outside her Haven. Maya waves from the doorway, a single tear of blood escaping her eye.
Lucile raises her eyebrows as she sees old muscle cars and bullet bikes lining up outside her home. She then smiles as she notices the Prince standing in front of her red Camaro.
It seems a few Ravnos are talking amongst themselves and admiring this particular vehicle.
Maya steps outside and her jaw drops as she sees the scene in front of her, "I don't...wow. Just wow."
Kelly waves as she puts away a cigarette, "Yo! Sweet ride! Love the red paint!"
Prince Lucas strides forward and shakes Lucile's hand, "Greetings, Lucile."
He then extends his hand to Maya and shakes her hand, "Maya. Pleasant evening, yes?"
Maya gently nods and weakly smiles at the Prince. She looks around and says, "Uh...quite the send-off party, huh?"
Prince Lucas softly chuckles, "We just want to make sure she travels safely. She's a courier for the Camarilla, after all."
Maya reminds the Prince, "Just for a few weeks. After that--"
Lucile nudges Maya in the arm and gives her a stern look.
The Prince smiles and says, "Yes, just a few weeks...I am quite aware of that arrangement, Maya. But these things do have a habit of taking...longer than anticipated, do they not?" He tilts his head.
He's hinting at something.
Lucile shrugs, "I mean, yeah, I guess."
Prince Lucas looks at Lucile and says, "In case anything were to happen to you--"
Anticipating Maya's response, he holds up his hands and continues, "--not that I am implying it would, but in the unlikely case, we've arranged another courier to shadow you."
He narrows his eyes in confusion, "Is that the expression?"
Maya folds her arms, "Oh, who's this other courier?"
Prince Lucas replies, "Someone from the Midwest. Another Ravnos." He refrains from saying anymore.
Lucile rubs her hands together, "So, what's my first um...stop, I guess?"
"Simple. Take this flash drive, get it decrypted, and hand it over to the other courier." The Prince reaches into his jacket pocket and pulls out a flash drive.
Lucile takes the drive and nods, "Decrypt and send back. Got it!"
She stuffs the flash drive into a brown sling bag.
Prince Lucas snaps his fingers and a few other Ravnos bring a couple of duffel bags. 2 huge and 1 medium. They place the bags in Lucile's Camaro and then they back off.
The Prince nods, "They are full of essentials that should get you by. Burner phones, crowbars, lockpicks, various tools, and some other miscellaneous items that my people thought you might benefit from."
He looks at Lucile with a mischievous grin.
Lucile curtly bows her head, "Thank you, Prince Lucas."
Maya nods, "Heh. Yeah, thanks! Anything that keeps her safe is much appreciated!"
Prince Lucas looks around, "One last thing, Lucile."
He lowers his voice, walks closer to Lucile and pulls something from inside his long jacket.
Maya gasps as she sees the Prince brandish a handgun.
Lucile's hands shake as she accepts the handgun. It's a 9mm Glock 17. It feels heavy in her hands. It feels awkward to hold. It's not a toy. This is real.
Useful against low-level SI goons (or any other mortals with ill intent). Mostly useless against Kindred.
Prince Lucas says, "There's ammo in one of the bags. Also, it's pretty cheap and can be found almost anywhere. Welcome to America," he says as he snickers at his own joke.
"Yeah, thanks, I'll be keeping that handy."
Maya looks worried. Something about her girlfriend being handed a deadly weapon...well, she's not sure if it's a good idea or not. It's just strange seeing Lucile with something so...deadly.
Even if it isn't necessarily deadly against Kindred. Still...
Maya asks, "Does--does she really need that, Prince Lucas?"
Prince Lucas firmly replies, "The threats on the road are many, Maya. Better to be safe than sorry, yes?"
He looks to Lucile and smiles at her, "Keep it in the glove compartment if it makes you feel any better, Lucile."
Lucile says, "Don't worry, Maya. It's gonna be alright." She winks at her and tucks the handgun away into her jeans. Maya looks uncomfortable.
Lucile asks the Prince, "What do I do after the flash drive thing?"
Prince Lucas simply says, "Further instructions will be provided to you in a timely manner, Lucile." He waves his hand and gestures towards the Camaro.
"Well, good luck," he turns around and finger whistles.
Kelly gets on a bike. 4 other Ravens hop on their bikes. 5 get in separate cars. They all rev their engines a few times and ride off into the night.
Keith waits for the Prince in an old 1966 Pontiac GTO with custom rims and a shiny bumper that's been polished recently. He's fiddling around with his phone.
His shades reflect the lights from his phone. The car is matte black and is also equipped with a loud exhaust system.
Keith waves to Maya, "Hey, Maya! What's up?" He chuckles. Maya smiles and waves back.
Lucile asks the Prince for a moment alone with Maya.
Prince Lucas slowly nods, "Of course. But, make it quick."
He walks away.
Lucile and Maya embrace each other under the moonlit sky. Maya buries her face against Lucile's neck. Her body is trembling. She doesn't want her to leave. She never wants her to leave. Not when they just found each other.
But, neither has any choice (or say) in the matter.
Maya, with tears of blood coming out of her eyes, says, "I'm gonna miss you so much, Lucile. I love you, Lucile. I know it's only been a few nights, b--but--"
Lucile, who is also crying tears of blood says, "I love you too, Maya. My poinsettia. I love you so much. I'll do whatever it takes to come home to you soon...I promise." She strokes Maya's back.
"I just wish there was another way- a better way," Maya whispers.
Is there? Could there be a better way? Perhaps.
But, this was decided nights ago and Kindred don't really have any say in matters that pertain to their duties. It's all dictated by their superiors (or those perceived to be).
It's just the way things work...for thousands of years, give or take a few centuries of strife or boredom. And it probably will continue to be this way for thousands of years to come. It's nothing new.
Not in their world, anyway.
Maya and Lucile passionately kiss, tongues swirling around between them. Lucile wipes Maya's tears of blood away with her thumbs. Maya does the same to Lucile's tears of blood.
They smile at each other.
"I love you, my poinsettia."
Maya gulps and says, "I love you too, Lucile." She kisses Lucile one last time on the lips, "Go kick some ass...and stay safe." She reluctantly lets her go.
Maya doesn't want her to let go.
Lucile gets in her car and starts it up. She checks that she's got everything she's gonna need for the long, dark roads ahead.
She rolls her window down, "Don't you worry about me, Maya! I'm gonna be fine. Just don't go doing anything stupid while I'm away! You hear?"
Maya chuckles and nods, "Also, make sure you log on to our...thing every night. Even if it's just for 90 seconds." Maya tries to smile, but fails.
"I wouldn't miss it for the world, sweetie." Lucile blows Maya a kiss. Maya catches that kiss and blows one right back.
She watches Lucile's red Camaro roar away into the night.
Maya places her hand over her mouth as she looks at the her lover's car getting smaller and smaller until she can't see it anymore. Her body feels weak. Her stomach hurts. Her mind is a mess.
Is it the Hunger? Or something else?
Prince Lucas's elbow is sticking out of the window of Keith's GTO as he looks at Maya.
Maya walks over and says, "So...that's that, then, huh? Sh--she's gonna be OK, right?"
Keith nods, "She'll be fine!"
Lucas isn't as optimistic, "I've seen plenty of couriers meet Final Death during my travels, Maya."
"Wha--" Maya's voice shakes. She sounds scared.
A subtle smirk forms across Prince Lucas's face, "But your Lucile will fare far better than most."
Maya's eyes go wide in fear. Her jaw drops. She doesn't know if he's trying to be reassuring or he's being...well, a bit ominous.
Prince Lucas continues, "I've been told that she has quite the command over the Blood."
Maya nods, "She's good at that, yeah."
"Then, a formidable Blood Sorceress like her needn't worry too much. The best couriers are those that have embraced the...unknown," he smiles as he says this.
Maya takes a deep breath and slowly exhales, "Yeah. I guess so. So, what's the plan, now, Prince Lucas?"
Prince Lucas raises his finger, "Ah. I almost forgot. Frank told me to tell you that your...scooter is all ready and fixed up. You can collect it from the garage," he gives her a friendly wink.
"Oh, that's great news! I'm looking forward to taking it for a spin again!" Maya grins as she feels some joy in her (no longer beating) heart.
The Prince gives Maya a firm handshake, "I'll see you at the auditorium, Maya."
"B--But..."
"But what?"
"But I thought the meeting was for Clan representatives only."
The Prince waves his hand dismissively, "I'm Prince, not them. And I'm asking you to join us for our discussion."
Maya chuckles, "It would be an honor, Prince Lucas."
"Just make sure you...feed before you head over to the meeting. The Hunger can get...dire if you leave it for too long."
He nods at her and smiles, "Keith. Let's go."
Keith gives Maya a thumbs up, starts the car up and the GTO's exhaust system makes a loud boom. It drives away from the front of Maya's Haven and disappears down the street.
Maya heads back inside her Haven and plops down on the couch. She sighs loudly and checks her phone. Nothing but muted notifications and tons of requests for comment from various media outlets.
She throws her phone away, not really in the mood for thinking about...that right now.
Maya spends the next hour or so just sitting in her living room. She reads those old books Eleanor gave her, still struggling to understand the more...dense concepts within the tomes.
She steps outside and inhales the air. She's all alone now.
Maya admires the poinsettia bushes and remembers what Lucile asked her to do. She promised that she'd take good care of it and that's what she plans to do.
She knows Lucile will want to see it still standing and growing strong when she returns.
So, Maya slits her wrist with her sharp claw and lets a few drops of Vitae fall into the soil. It's all she knows how to do. Hopefully this'll be sufficient to keep the flowers looking...pretty and healthy.
And red.
She returns inside and checks her phone. It's likely out of habit. She picks up Lucile's phone and looks at it from all angles.
Maya takes a picture of herself on Lucile's phone. She sticks her tongue out and gives a big thumbs up. It's her own silly way of trying to stay connected to Lucile. Even if it's just through pictures.
She puts the phone on the charge as the battery is a bit low.
Lucile insisted that there be no secrets between her and Maya, but the thought of going through her phone and seeing everything is still a bit...distressing.
She trusts (and loves) Lucile with all her (undead) being, but still...she wonders what Lucile is hiding and what she isn't hiding.
Lucile could've PIN-protected her phone and/or locked it away but she didn't do any of those things.
She wanted Maya to know her better by...well, not just looking at things, but actually interacting with her and trying to learn about her as they navigate these strange new feelings towards one another.
She wants to open up to her. She wants Maya to know that there is no one else in her life...well, Unlife now, that is, that she would rather be with. No one.
No secrets, no lies.
Maya feels the same way, but a nagging feeling on the back of her mind asks what if Lucile is being TOO OPEN in order to conceal something else?
Was it the Beast filling Maya's head with all these doubts due to its Hunger? Or was it just Maya's own worries that Lucile is too good to be true?
Maya's not so sure. She feels terrible about thinking such things, but her doubts remain.
They linger.
But, Maya has no time to think such things about the woman she loves and wants to spend all eternity with.
Maya needs to feed. And it needs to happen soon. Her Hunger has reached that stage where she needs to do something about it...fast. She doesn't want to Frenzy or let the Beast take over.
Maya puts on a hoodie jacket and heads to the bus stop. She decides to feed before going and getting her scooter from Frank's garage.
The bus won't be arriving for the next few minutes. As luck would have it, there's an old lady sitting alone, minding her own business.
Maya grimaces at the thought that this poor old lady is likely going to be tonight's meal. She feels like a creep, but the Beast won't let her go without feeding.
Maya circles around, covers the old lady's mouth and sticks her sharp fangs into the old lady's neck. The old lady squirms, but it doesn't take long for her to lose consciousness.
Maya feels the senior citizen's blood make its way down her throat. More, more, more, the Beast demands. But, Maya pulls away as her bloody fangs glisten under the moonlight and retract back into her mouth.
It's sufficient. Maya proceeds to lick the wound shut and cover the poor old lady with a shawl.
The old lady looks like she dozed off. The bus arrives and Maya gets in, leaving the old lady on the bench.
Maya sits in the back and feels the fresh blood make its way down her throat, satiating her Hunger. She lets out a satisfied groan. She's already feeling much better.
The Beast is quiet.
Yet, she's still worried about Lucile and hopes that she's doing OK...
Lucile has almost made it to the edge of town. She even chuckles as she sees the "You are now leaving..." sign. They still haven't gotten it fixed.
Someone took the time to draw crude caricatures of the current Mayor and his wife in very...compromising positions.
Or about as compromising as 2 labeled stick figures can be.
Lucile sees a man leaning against the hood of his car. He holds his hand up. Lucile slams the brakes and the Camaro screeches to a halt. It's a little rough. She's not used to driving this thing...yet.
She rolls her window down and sees him approaching her.
He grunts, "You the Tremere courier?"
"Mm-hmm," Lucile warmly smiles as she nods.
He looks at her for a while, "That's your ride?" He points to her Camaro.
"Why, is there something wrong with it?" she asks.
"It's...red. Very red. You don't think that's gonna draw unwanted attention?" he says with a tone of contempt.
He continues, "It's red, it's big, and it's not exactly...subtle," he raises his eyebrow as he pulls out a toothpick from his pocket.
Lucile sighs, "Look, I'm just gonna be driving for a few weeks--"
The man snickers and scoffs, "A few weeks...really? Is that all you think this is?" His expression turns stern. He folds his arms.
Lucile shoots back, "Hey! I'm quite capable of taking care of myself, mister!"
The Ravnos sighs and throws his hands up in the air, "Fine. I wasn't doubting your abilities or anything. I'm just sayin' that I'd rather you drive something that blends in with the crowd."
He shrugs his shoulders and gestures towards the road ahead, "Take your...package 2 towns over, wait for it to get decrypted, and send it back with Jean."
Lucile frowns, "Who's Jean?"
The Wanderer laughs and gives a vague response, "A courier like you. Just give it to them after you get it decrypted, OK? Don't need to know more than that."
Lucile frowns, "So, I'm just gonna be following your orders the whole time, huh?"
He replies, "Nah, you're following the Prince's. Not just Lucas, but whatever Camarilla Domain you find yourself in."
Lucile's eyes study him for a few seconds. He wears a dirty checkered shirt, cargo pants, sandals, brown socks, a ton of beads around his neck, and has a long ponytail.
His face is round and pale. His eyes look like they belong to an old man. He looks tired. He has a few wrinkles and is slightly balding. His stubble looks like it's been neglected for some time.
He says, "Name's Chaska," he smiles, semi-broken teeth fully visible to Lucile.
Lucile tilts her head and replies, "I'm...Lucile. It's a pleasure to meet you, Chaska." She offers her hand. He takes it and shakes it.
"It's a Native American name," he says, in an attempt to make small talk.
"Ah, that's nice! So, you're a uh...Wanderer?" she asks.
Chaska's smile fades and his eyes narrow, "Yep. Embraced on a Reservation back in '82," he says, his voice growing gruffer.
Lucile slowly nods, "Oh."
"Well, if that's all, I'm gonna get going. I got places to be, Tremere. Be safe, Usurper. And may the spirits of the Blood guide you." His voice sounds more serious now.
"You too, Chaska."
"See ya!" He walks away and hops into his car. He turns on the engine and speeds away.
Lucile puts her hands on the wheel and sighs. She's not exactly happy about this arrangement. But, it is what it is. She knows better than to question any given order.
She checks her satchel one last time before starting up the Chevy and driving out of town.
There's a long, dark, road ahead.
Lucile takes one look back at the town and says, "I'm gonna miss you, Maya. See you soon," as she drives away.
Maya is almost at the garage where her scooter is. Her Hunger is satiated, for now at least.
She gets off the bus and decides to walk the rest of the way to meet Frank and collect her scooter.
The night is cold, but Maya isn't bothered by it. Her hoodie jacket is keeping her warm enough.
Her mind is somewhere else, thinking about Lucile and wondering if she's doing all right.
Maya spots a familiar figure walking out of a nearby diner. It's Dylan, the Thin-Blood representative.
He's wearing a blue shirt and Bermuda shorts (3/4ths). He's got a large strawberry milkshake in his hand.
He's looking around as he walks and sips his milkshake. He's alone.
Maya walks up and taps him on the shoulder, "Dylan?"
Dylan jerks his head around and sees Maya, "Oh! Hi, uh...Maya!? What's up?" He looks over her shoulder.
"Whoa. You Thin-Bloods are lucky. You still get to eat and drink...regular food?" Maya asks, genuinely surprised.
Dylan chuckles, "Y--Yeah, I guess so. It's not all sunshine and roses, though. So, what are you doing in this part of town?"
Maya replies, "Here to pick up my scooter from Prince Lucas's Ghoul."
"Ah. Cool. I'm just here for a...quick snack, really," he says, tapping on his milkshake.
Maya lowers her head, "Aw, wish I could still do that."
"Mm-hmm. Well, like I said, Maya, it's complicated. Besides, you Tremere are the ones with the cool powers and...stuff."
Maya nods, "Yeah, I see what you mean. It takes a lotta time to master. I didn't do too well with the Blood Wards yesterday night."
Dylan shrugs, "Eh, you did OK. Can't be easy for a Fledgling to...learn all that stuff."
Maya laughs, "Haha! Tell me about it! Eleanor's making me read these old books and work my way through it all, and..."
She sighs, "It's just not easy."
"Well, at least you've got someone that's willing to guide you."
Dylan looks to the side and continues, "I didn't have that privilege, Maya."
Maya places a hand on his shoulder, "I'm so sorry, Dylan."
Dylan takes a long sip of his milkshake. He's silent.
He then says, "I was Embraced when Geoffrey was Prince. My whole life changed that day. Not that I had much to begin with, anyway."
He continues, "Before the Embrace, I was working 2 jobs in the big city just to make ends meet. I was a bartender and a delivery guy. I was working so hard, so late into the night. Sometimes, I'd even sleep at work, heh. I'd--"
A solemn tear, partly bloody, escapes his eyes.
"--I'd sometimes wonder if it was worth it. If all the work and the lack of sleep and the fear of getting fired were worth it in the end."
Dylan invites Maya to sit on a bench and he continues, "So, I decided to move someplace where things would be laid back..."
Maya interjects, "Or so you thought," she laughs.
He smiles, "Yeah, or so I thought. I was so excited about this town. A few nights after arriving, I black out and wake up in an empty warehouse and I'm hungry...but not just for food. I'm hungry for...blood. It was a weird feeling. I was a bit concerned about it. I didn't really know what the hell to do."
The Duskborn shakes his milkshake around and goes on, "That's when Sheriff Eunice found me. She had that look in her eyes, Maya."
He sighs and continues, "She wanted to end me on the spot."
Maya raises her eyebrows, "Whoa. That Malkavian is...scary, huh?"
"Yeah. She's got that...thing, that makes her hard to resist, y'know? Anyway, Prince Geoffrey stepped in and told her to not do anything to me. I guess the old guy took pity on me. He told me that there was a place for me in this town...that there would even be a place for others like me."
Dylan takes a short sip, "Y'know, you're lucky you know who your Sire is. Eleanor's a good person, Maya. I...still have no damn clue who my Sire is. I'm sure they're out there."
He does a wide, sweeping gesture, "But, I'm still wondering...why me? Why not him? Why not her? Why not anyone else?"
Maya says, "I...um, really can't answer that, Dylan. I'm so sorry."
"Relax, it was a rhetorical question," he chuckles.
Maya adds, "I'm glad you're here, though. I'm glad you're with us. You're still one of us, Dylan."
"Heh. Thanks, Maya." He holds up his milkshake, "Cheers to that!"
Maya just licks her lips as she sees (and feels) the pink liquid make its way down Dylan's esophagus.
Dylan continues, "You should be grateful to Prince Lucas, Maya."
"Why's that?"
Dylan says, "He's the one who authorized your Embrace. You're the first to be Embraced under his...leadership." There's a hint of skepticism in his voice.
Or maybe it's just something Maya is imagining. She's not too sure.
She decides to press him on the matter, "You don't like the new Prince, huh?"
"Wha--?! Of course I do! It's just that you don't normally hear of a Ravnos Prince. Kind of a weird choice, isn't it? And it's not like I'm questioning his ability to lead or anything..." his voice trails off as he slurps his milkshake.
Maya changes the subject, "Tell me more about Prince Geoffrey, Dylan. You seemed to like him a lot more than Prince Lucas, huh?" She laughs. She means no harm, of course. Just trying to lighten the mood. It's been a rough couple of nights.
For all involved.
Dylan gulps, "Old-ish guy, I'd say early 50s. Could've been mid 40s, heh. Toreador. Last name was Calhoun. Had quite the fashion sense. Always wore this...cool suit and had a hat with him. I liked the guy." He smiles. He misses him. His voice is soft now.
The smile on his face is a warm, fond memory. It's genuine. It's...sweet. There's no sarcasm or cynicism. Maya can sense that he's being sincere.
She appreciates that.
Dylan chuckles, "You could easily mistake him for a butler like on those TV shows, haha! He always looked so proper and well-mannered, you know? But, he was also very approachable and always made time for us Thin-Bloods."
Maya asks, "So, why'd he meet Final Death?" She kinda knows the answer, but she hopes she's not being too forward by asking that. However, she's curious. She wants to know.
Besides, a different...perspective couldn't hurt.
Dylan sighs, "Well, he wasn't playing according to the Camarilla's rules. Embraces happened almost every other day...and night. The Thin-Blood population was growing fast and it wasn't long before the Lasombra came knocking." He takes a sip of his milkshake and frowns.
It's almost finished.
He rubs his temples, "And, well...you know the rest of what happened, Maya."
Maya presses on, "So Sheriff Eunice...executed him."
Dylan slowly nods, "Yep. He got sold out by the other Toreadors. Bastards." His voice is low. It's...angry. Sad. Hurt. Frustrated. It's a lot of emotions. And Maya doesn't know what to make of them.
She just looks at the ground and says, "I'm so sorry."
Dylan scratches the back of his head, "Well, I'm sure you have more questions, but I got a meeting at the auditorium tonight and I REALLY don't wanna be late."
He quickly drinks the rest of his milkshake and says, "That damn Ventrue, Arman always finds some excuse to call me out." He grumbles and shakes his head.
He tosses the empty cup into the bin nearby. It's a clean shot. It goes in.
Nice.
Maya narrows her eyes, "You don't like Arman? Why?"
Dylan growls, "He's a fuckin' Ventrue snob, that's why!" He's frustrated. His fangs are showing and his eyes are getting bloodshot. He's not angry, but he's definitely not happy either.
Maya places her hand on Dylan's shoulders in an attempt to calm him down, "Whoa! Hey, slow down, Dylan. You're kinda scaring me."
Maya continues, "I mean, I did get rich snob vibes from him when we met yesterday night, but WHY don't you like him?" She takes her hands off him and looks at him with a confused look.
Dylan's fangs retract, but his eyes are still bloodshot.
He clenches his fist, "I...I can't really explain it, Maya. Just something about him rubs me the wrong way. Like, I know he's been here for a while, but I still don't trust him." His voice is calmer now. He takes a few deep breaths.
Maya asks, "How long has he been here?" She's curious.
"I genuinely do not know, Maya. Hell, I've barely seen any Ventrue around this town at all. Word is they treat Plaintry like a vacation spot. Come in, have some fun, sleep all fuckin' day," he shrugs.
He then says, "It feels like he's just biding his time...waiting for the right opportunity."
"The right opportunity to do what?"
"Hell if I know. Probably make a ton of money in real estate, the stock market, or whatever the fuck else the Ventrue do for fun. Not my area of expertise." He laughs. It's a bitter laugh. He's not amused.
He's not even trying to be.
Maya feels like this is getting somewhere. She asks, "What about the Lasombra? Ginny. What are your thoughts on her?"
Dylan groans, "She's...shit, she's like a closed book, Maya. I can't really tell if she's just doing her job as Clan rep or if there's something more sinister to her."
He sighs, "She and Arman are real close. I've seen how they look at each other during the meetings. Like, jeez, get a room already!"
He continues, "But, I've heard rumors that the Lasombra did some pretty messed up things to the Nosferatu. I can't confirm anything, though. But, they're dangerous. That much I know."
"So, did you ever meet any Nosferatu?" Maya asks, as a part of her genuinely wants to see one of them up-close.
Dylan grimaces, "Ugh. Don't even remind me about...them. I mean, they weren't bad people or anything, but holy shit, their appearance and their smell made me sick, Maya. Seriously."
He chuckles, "But, yeah, they were cool enough to hang out with. I heard they kept using their...net thing--"
Maya interjects, "SchreckNet."
Dylan nods, "Yeah...that. They were using that to keep records. Detailed records on all the townspeople. Kindred and mortal alike."
He shakes his head and sighs, "I feel bad for them. They were just doing their jobs and got destroyed or exiled for it."
"Damn, a lotta history in this town, huh?"
"Mm-hmm. Don't even get me started on your Clan, Maya. You Tremere are a bunch of socially awkward weirdos and shut-ins." He smiles and nudges Maya. She laughs.
He's not entirely wrong.
Dylan checks his phone, "I'm really sorry, Maya. I've gotta get going. It was nice talking to you and uh...welcome to the family, I guess?"
Maya says, "Thanks, Dylan. It was real nice to get a different perspective on things. Maybe you can tell me more about my Clan when we meet again?" She's not sure when she'll get the opportunity for a chat, but she'd love to get his take on things.
Maya adds, "Oh, Prince Lucas invited me to the auditorium meeting. Why don't we both head to the garage? What do you say?" She sounds optimistic.
Dylan agrees, "Sure, why not? I don't mind. You uh...got your driver's license, Maya?"
Maya awkwardly laughs, "It's a scooter, Dylan. Just hold on and you'll be fine. OK, sure, I haven't ridden it in a while, but I'll drive safe!" She smiles.
Dylan looks a little nervous, "Heh. OK, then. I'll trust you on this."
They both walk to the garage talking about other things. Maya learns that Dylan works at the nearby Amazon Warehouse.
A look of contempt forms on Dylan's face as he mentions his job, "Ugh. It keeps the bills and rent paid."
Maya asks him about the other Thin-Bloods in this town and he replies, "A lotta them work in the Amazon Warehouse, too. We all suffer together, haha!"
Maya asks, "So, can all of the Thin-Bloods eat regular food?"
"Nope. I guess I'm one of the lucky few. Hell, my heart still beats!"
Dylan adds, "There's also a lotta Thin-Bloods who hang around The Chicken Shack. You uh...heard of it?"
Maya smiles, "Oh, yeah! I went there with Lucile for a date night and...it was nice. I had the Piña colada and Lucile had...um, something called 'Blood-Orange Special'?" Maya tries to remember.
"Haha! Yeah, that's a classic! Blood, actual human blood, mixed in with orange juice, alcohol, and a little bit of lemon."
Dylan grimaces, "Not that I've tried it or anything, but I've heard that it tastes...weird."
"Well, I enjoyed my Piña colada. Service was decent enough. The waitress who took our order looked a bit...sick. Was she--"
"Yup, she's one of us, Maya. Being a Thin-Blood ain't all rainbows and unicorns," Dylan shrugs.
Maya says, "She looked really awful that night."
"Yeah, she got the short end of the stick, that's for sure. Some nights, she looks OK. Others, she looks like she's at death's door." He shakes his head.
The duo are almost at the garage. It's a bit secluded from the rest of the town and is surrounded by (mostly) empty land.
Maya hears a banging sound, almost like something falling to the ground, as she and Dylan approach the garage.
"You hear that?" Maya asks.
"Yeah," Dylan clenches his fist.
A trail of blood leads from the garage to a nearby field. It's still fresh.
Maya spots massive, bloody footprints on the ground leading out of the garage.
Maya's claws come out and so do her fangs, "What the hell? Stay here, Dylan. I'm gonna go check it out."
Dylan shakes his head, "No way, Maya. I'm coming with." His claws and fangs come out, too. He's got a determined look on his face.
Maya takes a deep breath, "OK, let's go."
They slowly walk towards the garage.
The side door of the garage has been violently ripped off and is laying on the ground.
The lights are on inside the garage, but Maya can't see anything from where she stands.
"I don't like this, Dylan. Something's not right."
Dylan's breathing gets heavier. He's anxious. So is Maya.
Maya continues, "Stay close, Dylan."
"Be careful, Maya."
Maya steps on a pile of ashes and gasps as her feet scrape it.
"Shit!" she mutters.
There are several piles of ashes strewn about the garage. Tools are scattered everywhere and some have even been destroyed.
Vehicle parts are scattered about the place. Blood is splattered all over the walls and ripped out organs are strewn about.
The garage is not too big. At the most, it can fit one car at a time. There are a few tools lying about, but most of them are broken or damaged. The walls are a dull shade of blue.
The floor is grimy and patches of mold can be found here and there. It smells like old motor oil and sweat. Maya thinks she sees a mouse scurry away, but it's hard to tell as the tube lights flicker on and off.
There are a few foldable steel chairs scattered about, but they look like they've been unused for ages.
Maya and Dylan hear faint groaning as they draw closer. They can't quite make out where the noise is coming from.
Dylan spots a trail of blood and ashes leading to a door at the back of the garage. The door is slightly ajar.
As Dylan places his hand on the doorknob, a figure comes tumbling out, collapsing on the ground.
It's Frank, Prince Lucas's Ghoul and right hand man!
One of his arms is missing. It's been viciously ripped off. His face is swollen and his eyes are bleeding. He's covered in blood and cuts.
Some of it is his, but some of it is (likely) the Prince's as well.
Maya gasps and screams, "FRANK! OH MY GOD!"
She rushes over to him as he lays on the floor, barely conscious. Dylan keeps his distance and feels a bit sick.
Maya asks, "What the hell happened to you, Frank?! Who did this to you?!"
She's panicking and her entire body is shaking as she takes Frank's hand in her own. He's still warm. He's alive, but barely hanging on.
He tries to speak, but no words come out. He just moans and groans as his slashed eyes flutter.
Dylan gags and immediately bends over a trash can to throw up. He's seen enough. He can't bear to look anymore.
All that strawberry milkshake just comes spilling out. It's disgusting.
Dylan wipes his mouth with the back of his hand and kneels beside Frank. He glares at Maya and notices her brown eyes.
He mutters to himself, "Those...eyes. So familiar, but it can't be..." he shakes his head and shrugs. He's confused.
Maya barks, "DYLAN! FOCUS! We need to call an ambulance or do something!"
Dylan snaps back to reality. He grimly says, "You know I can't do that, Maya."
"You know what would happen if we brought...any mortals here," he gestures towards the piles of ashes.
Dylan continues, "We gotta call Sheriff Eunice and uh...clean this place up."
Frank wheezes and grabs Maya's collar. He mumbles, "Attacked...Surprise...G--Ga--" his voice is barely audible. His breathing is slowing down.
He's fading fast.
Maya says, "C'mon, Frank! Stay with me! C'mon! Who did this to you?! Tell me who did this! Gimme something, PLEASE!" She's desperate for answers.
Frank's eyes close and his grip on Maya's collar loosens. He swallows hard and exhales.
Dylan leans forward as Frank musters the strength to say, "Ga--Garou. The...Garou."
With that, Frank takes his final breath. He's gone.
Maya kneels there, jaw slack.
Dylan frowns, "What the fuck is a Garou?!" He really has no idea.
Maya gets up, expressionless, and places her hand over her mouth.
Dylan narrows his eyes and looks up at her, "Maya! What the fuck is a Garou?! WHAT'S GOING ON?!" He's panicking and tugging at Maya's sleeve.
Maya's lips quiver, "We need to tell the Prince about this. We--we need to get Sheriff Eunice involved, too."
"No shit, but what's a Garou?"
Maya simply replies, "Werewolves, Dylan. They were attacked by...werewolves. There's nothing we can do for them now." Her voice is low. It's sad. She's scared. She doesn't know what to do.
Dylan gets up, puts his hands behind his neck and repeats, "N--No way. This--this can't be real. No way. NO FUCKING WAY!"
He angrily kicks a can of oil and yells, "FUCK! FUCK! FUCK!" as he kicks a bunch of stuff around.
Maya grabs his shoulders, "We're vampires. You really think werewolves are impossible?!" Maya's trying to make sense of this situation. It's a lot to take in.
For both of them.
Dylan retorts, "But, they're--they're--they're..." He stammers and stumbles. He's shaking. His face is pale and his fangs are showing.
He takes a few deep breaths as Maya helps him calm down.
Maya looks around the garage and spots her scooter. It's tilted over. She goes over to it and inspects it.
Frank got it all fixed up for her, just like he promised. And, he didn't even charge her for it. She feels terrible about this. He was a good guy. A good person. He didn't deserve this.
She takes a few seconds to mourn him. She closes her eyes and sighs.
The Vespa scooter has been given a fresh coat of paint, although the green is a bit darker than Maya expected.
Complaining or bothering about that is...pointless, considering the carnage all around her and Dylan.
Maya notices the keys in the ignition. Frank must've left them there. She's glad he did. She'd hate to spend any more time in this place.
Maya says, "C'mon, Dylan! We have to go and tell the Prince what happened here!"
Dylan grabs a helmet from the corner, gets on the back seat, and hands it to Maya, "You better not crash this thing, Maya." He's joking, but it's a nervous joke.
Maya wearily smiles, "You'll be fine. Just...hold tight. It's been a while since I've done this."
Before turning the key, Maya asks, "So, we just...leave them here?"
"What other choice do we have, Maya? It's not like we can call an ambulance." Dylan's voice is soft. He sounds tired. He's still in shock.
Maya backs up out of the garage and puts on the full-face helmet. It feels a bit musty. It smells of old hair gel, too. But, it's better than nothing.
Maya turns the key and the Vespa gracefully comes to life.
Dylan smiles and Maya nervously laughs, "Oh. Hell yeah!" The smile on her face is genuine.
She even notices that the fuel indicator is on "Full". Frank filled it up for her. She was gonna thank him for that.
Now...she can't.
Maya says, "Here goes nothing," and begins to rev up the engine. She feels the vibration of the engine against her hands. It's a weird feeling. She hasn't experienced it in quite a long time.
But, she knows it'll come back to her in time. She revs it a few more times before easing into the acceleration and driving off. She's not going too fast, though.
She's taking it easy. She's cautious. She doesn't want to get in an accident.
Not when the proverbial stakes are as high as they currently are.
A million questions swim through Maya's and Dylan's minds. Why would the Garou attack a small garage? Is this a targeted hit?
Are they the only ones who know about the attack? Or, was it just an isolated incident? What do the Garou even want?
The breeze hits Maya and Dylan as they make their way to the auditorium.
More questions emerge. Why now? Why here? How many of them are there? Why would they be after a Ghoul like Frank? Did they know he was a Ghoul or did they assume he was a vampire like everyone else at the garage?
Speaking of, how many others were at the garage?
There's so much to unpack here and neither of them know where to begin.
Only one man knows the answers to most of those questions (for now). He's already seated at the auditorium, on a plastic chair.
His fingers steepled together as he sat across the Prince. His legs are crossed and he's humming a tune to himself. He's waiting.
He knows.
Prince Lucas, completely unaware of all that is transpiring (for now), stares at Arman and says, "If the others can't be bothered to show up for the meeting, then I am in no hurry to begin." He's annoyed, but trying to remain calm.
Arman replies, "Yes, well, they can be quite...temperamental, my liege."
Sheriff Eunice chimes in, "I can make 'em come on time...if you want."
Prince Lucas raises his hand, "That won't be necessary, Sheriff Eunice. But, I do appreciate your...enthusiasm, for lack of a better term." He warmly smiles.
The Sheriff simply nods, "Sure thing, Prince." Her tone is neutral. She's not too happy about the delay either.
It's happy hour at a nearby bar and a few of the cops are planning to meet later tonight. The Malkavian wants to be there, too.
Ever since the death of her husband, she's become quite...distant. Not that she was close to anyone before.
Arman clears his throat as he sees Ginny walking in, "Ah, finally, someone with manners." He smiles and waves at Ginny.
She smiles back and sits beside him.
The Lasombra leans in and whispers something in Arman's ear. She's smirking.
Prince Lucas tilts his head, "Anything I should be made aware of, Ginny?"
"Nah, just a little...thing. Nothing you need to worry about, Prince Lucas." She meets the Prince's steely glare with an equally piercing gaze.
Before anything more can be said, the auditorium doors swing open and Maya and Dylan come running in, out of breath.
The Prince gets up from his seat and walks over to them, "Dylan! Maya! What's going on?"
Dylan bends over and throws up some more. Lucas grimaces and takes a few steps back.
Maya takes off her helmet and shakes her head from side to side, "Your Ghoul, Frank...he's--he's dead!" Her breathing is erratic. Her fangs are out. Her eyes are watering.
"What?! What do you mean he's 'dead', Maya?! Is this some kind of prank?!"
He pulls her closer, "Answer me, dammit! What do you mean by that?!" His fangs are out now.
Maya stammers and says, "I--I'm sorry, Prince Lucas. I went to the garage to pick up my scooter and--and--"
Dylan swallows hard and takes over, "It was a total mess in there. There were these piles of ash all over the place and--"
He coughs, loudly and erratically, "And--and there he--he was, slashed all over and bleeding to death. I...I'm so sorry, Prince Lucas."
The Prince's eyes go wide. He growls, "Who did this?! WHO?! Was it the SI?! WHO WAS IT?!" His voice booms in the auditorium.
Maya gulps, "The--the Garou. W--Werewolves. They killed him. They're...they're here, Prince Lucas. I--I don't know how o--or why, but--"
Ginny gives Arman a knowing glance. He smugly smirks.
Prince Lucas clenches his fist and roars, "THE GAROU?! B--But it can't be."
He lets go of Maya and buries his face in his hands, "It just can't be--"
Maya asks, "Why? You should've seen what they did to Frank. It was--"
Dylan interjects, "They tore his ARM OFF, Prince Lucas. He was barely holding on when we found him!"
The Sheriff approaches and says, "We need to get the crime scene locked down. Tight. Did you 2 tamper with anything?" That's the cop part of her speaking. She's trying to keep a level head while attempting to make sense of all this.
The Sheriff places her hands on her hips and frowns at Maya. Why?
Hard to tell what goes on in a Malkavian's head.
As Prince Lucas paces around, Dylan asks, "Sheriff Eunice, do you need the address or--"
Sheriff Eunice raises her hand and says, "I know where that garage is, Mercurian. Just tell me if you 2 touched anything."
Dylan clasps his hand and says, "N--No, we didn't. Only uh--"
Eunice narrows her eyes, "Spit it out."
Maya replies, "I took my scooter out and put on a helmet." She shows her bike keys to the Sheriff.
Eunice doesn't reply as she goes over to the Prince, "What are your orders, Prince Lucas?" Her tone is stern. It's the Sheriff in her. Always has been. Always will be. No matter the situation.
The Prince exhales, "Well, take a few people you can trust and...get rid of any evidence or anything that could be considered a Masquerade breach. G--Get rid of Frank and any other bodies you find in there." His tone reflects his disappointment, but his face is blank.
Maya interrupts, "W--we should at least give Frank a burial! We can't just leave him like--"
The Prince holds up his hand, "Maya. Please. There's no time for such things. We will mourn him at a more appropriate time, but we can't have any mortals finding out!" His voice is soft, yet firm. It's sympathetic, but still firm.
He sighs deeply. As he's about to continue speaking, in walks Eleanor.
Maya runs over to her Sire and hugs her tightly. She's been through a lot in the past few minutes and a familiar face is what she needs right now.
Eleanor awkwardly stands like a statue in Maya's embrace. Maya notices this.
She backs off and apologizes, "I--I'm sorry, Eleanor. I just--I'm so scared and--"
Eleanor gently pushes Maya aside, "Apologies for the tardiness, Prince Lucas. I seemed to have forgotten that we were having our meeting tonight."
She bows her head and notices the vomit on the floor. It's all pink interspersed with chunks of what looks like bread. Gross. She wrinkles her nose.
Maya presses her lips together, "Ugh. Long story."
Eleanor tilts her head, "Is something the matter? Prince Lucas, is everything alright? You look...distraught," she says as she notices his grim look.
He replies, "Well, apparently your Childe here claims we were attacked. By the Garou. In our very own town. My Domain." He stares at her. She can feel the weight of those eyes.
Eleanor blinks a few times, "By the Garou?" Her voice is low and uncertain.
She quickly walks over to a plastic chair and sits down.
Maya follows and implores Eleanor, "You gotta tell us more about these Garou, Eleanor! I know you told me a little about them, but WE are gonna need a lot more than a crash course if we're gonna find out what the hell is going on in this town!" Maya's voice is tense.
Eleanor narrows her eyes, "I do not recall telling you anything about the Garou Nation, Childe." Her tone demonstrates her uncertainty.
Lucile was right, Eleanor is forgetting stuff and this is definitely one of those times.
Maya clenches her fists and grits her teeth. She's about to say something, but decides against it.
Prince Lucas walks over and plops himself down on a nearby chair. His hands are intertwined and he's slouching.
He clears his throat, "I've sent the Sheriff and Dylan to...clean up the scene...of the crime."
Maya gently nods, "OK."
She turns her attention to her Sire, "Eleanor! Please! You seem to be the only one here who knows...about the Garou. Tell us what you know. Tell us EVERYTHING!" Maya is pleading with her Sire. It's obvious. It's desperate.
Eleanor raises her eyebrows, "Are you certain that it was the Garou, Childe?"
Maya sighs, "Frank told me it was them, with his dying breath. I think he knew he it was over for him. He'd have no reason to lie," Maya's voice trails off at the end.
Eleanor looks around as her eyes bounce between Maya, Prince Lucas, Ginny, and Arman.
Arman speaks up, "I know very little about the Garou. I first learnt of them while on a...business trip to Japan. The Ventrue there had...run-ins with the Garou. They are, I'm told, as secretive as we are."
Nothing like a bunch of quarter-truths to cover up bigger lies.
Prince Lucas finally snaps out of his trance, "I too know a little of the Garou. I've met many while leading members of my Clan. They were, dare I say, more reliable allies than Kindred or mortals." His voice is soft. Sad.
Maya gasps, "You met 'em? Wha--what were they like?"
Eleanor sighs, "Hardly the time for such childish curiosity, Maya." She scolds her Childe.
Maya looks down, "Sorry."
Eleanor continues divulging what she knows about the Garou to the very best of her (erratic) memory. Prince Lucas nods along. Arman nods, too. Ginny seems indifferent to the whole exposition dump.
"So, that is all I know of the Garou Nation. It is...sad to know that the Garou have chosen to strike at us here, but I hope we will get to the bottom of this," Eleanor sighs.
The Prince chimes in, "Yes. Something just isn't...adding up. It is not like them to do this."
Maya frowns, "Yeah, what are they even doing here in the first place? Are they here...to destroy us or something?"
Eleanor sighs, "I...am uncertain why they would attack us now." She simply stares at Maya.
Prince Lucas pulls a toothpick out of his pocket and chews on it as he says, "We...will find out. But, for now, we should focus on ensuring that the Masquerade remains intact."
Arman replies, "I concur. Especially with all the federal agents around."
The Prince sighs, "Yes, well, that's the least of our worries right now. If the Garou are planning to destroy us, I...wish to find out why, first." His tone is soft, but serious.
Eleanor scoffs, "They are beasts, my liege. Nothing more. Animated by Rage. Unpredictable and primal in their nature. There is no 'why', they simply do."
Maya replies, "Well, I mean, to be fair, we're kinda...beasts, too, Eleanor." She shrugs.
Eleanor looks Maya square in the eyes and says, "Do not compare yourself to such creatures. It is below you, Childe."
Maya gulps and simply nods. She knows that her Sire has a point, but she's curious. She wants to learn more about them. Especially if they are gonna be playing a part in what is going to come next.
Ginny shrugs and asks, "So, what now? We got a buncha furry maniacs who can hear the spirit of 'mother Earth'. Ooooooh. How do we deal with 'em?"
Arman snickers. The Prince replies, "Oh, Ginny. Ever the...woman of action." He softly chuckles, but there is no joy in his voice.
Ginny cocks her head and raises an eyebrow, "Hey, I wanna sleep fine during the day. Not get dragged out into the sun by eco-friendly murder machines! You better have a solid plan or should I start roundin' up my people?!" She folds her arms.
Prince Lucas frowns at her, "Ginny. You must learn to respect your Prince. I will not tolerate being spoken to in such a manner." His tone is firm. It's authoritative.
Ginny doesn't reply as she feels a nudge to her side. It's Arman. He simply stares at her. He's warning her.
Arman smirks as he turns to the Prince, "But, my Prince, you know that Ginny has a...point. What plan of action do you have in place?"
Prince Lucas glares at Ginny. She turns her head away. Arman places his hand on her knee. She relaxes a bit.
Eleanor steps in, "You Neonates ought to respect the Prince." She glares at Ginny before turning her attention to Arman.
The Elder continues, "I trust that the Prince will have a plan. He would not have been made a Prince if he did not possess the necessary skills." She has a gentle smile on her face as she curtly nods to the Prince.
Prince Lucas feels the pressure mounting. He mutters, "Thank you, Eleanor. We will find a way to deal with the Garou...one way or another. But without my right-hand man, Frank, I'm not too sure if I can..."
Maya hesitatingly asks, "Wh...Why not make another Ghoul? Sorry if that sounded callous." She tries her best to smile, but it doesn't come off as sincere as she wants it to.
Eleanor scoffs, "Ghouls are...useless. Clingy, and far too reliant on their Domitor. Far too volatile, in general."
Arman is about to retort, but Prince Lucas raises his hand, "We will figure this out another time. I do not wish for a retainer at the moment. There is, however, someone who I do trust. If that is possible, Maya."
Maya cocks her head to the side, "I'm not too sure what you mean, Prince Lucas."
"I was told that he met with your Lucile before she...departed."
Eleanor nods, "Ah. I trust she will make a fine courier for the Ivory Tower."
At least she remembers that.
The Prince looks around and frowns, "I should get in contact with him as soon as I can..." his voice trails off as he mutters something incomprehensible under his breath.
Maya leans forward, "Um...Prince Lucas, you were saying something about a 'cousin'? If you want to reach out, you could just use a phone and--"
She's interrupted by the Prince raising his hand again. He's frustrated.
He sighs, "Chaska's his name. A Ravnos. Native American, just like my Sire," he says as he places his hand on Maya's shoulder. He smiles warmly as he thinks of his Sire.
Prince Lucas scratches his nose and continues, "After my Sire...disappeared, Chaska and I remained in touch, as they say. He's a kind and gentle soul. I know I can count on him to help me find a solution."
He straightens his posture, "But, before I do that, I would like you all to be on high alert. Inform your respective Clans about this situation, if they don't already know. Let them know that we're up against the Garou."
He pauses and looks around, "Make sure they understand what exactly that...entails. The Garou are capable of destroying even the most powerful Elders."
Eleanor blinks and replies, "It shall be done, my Prince."
Arman nods once, "Consider it done."
Ginny shrugs, "Sure. Whatever." She knows that she's currently on thin-ice with the Prince.
He stares at her before asking, "Speaking of Elders, did you tell Simon that I wanted to speak to him tonight? Or did you conveniently forget that I'd asked to meet him tonight?" His voice is firm, but not angry. Not yet, anyway.
Speak of the proverbial devil and he shall appear.
The doors to the auditorium swing open and the imposing figure of the Elder Lasombra steps in. He's wearing a fedora, a casual suit with his shirt buttoned down and no tie.
Ginny stands up and makes the necessary introductions, "You were saying, Prince? Hmmm? I present to you Simon, Lasombra Elder."
Prince Lucas springs up from his seat and offers his hand for a firm shake. He smiles, "Ah, I'm glad that you could make it, Mr. Simon. It is a pleasure to finally meet you."
Simon looks around the place. He takes off his fedora and shakes the Prince's hand. His hand is unusually cold, causing the Prince to wince.
He then places his fedora back on a nearby table and smiles, "Oh, the pleasure is all mine, Prince Lucas." His voice is as smooth as silk.
Eleanor stands up and curtly inclines her head, "A pleasure to make the acquaintance of a Lasombra Elder. I trust you know who I am?" Her voice is as sharp as her stare.
He bows his head, "I do, Ms. Eleanor. Elder of Clan Tremere. It is a pleasure to meet you as well." His voice is calm, but Maya notices his eyes darting about, searching.
For what, though, is anyone's guess.
He turns his attention to Maya, "And this must be the new Tremere Fledgling everyone's talking about." He extends his hand.
Maya nervously smiles and shakes it. She feels the hairs on her body stand up as she shakes his hand. She quickly withdraws it and sits back down without saying a word.
Arman stands up and introduces himself, "Arman. Ventrue representative for the fine town of Plaintry. Welcome, Mr. Simon."
Although, this isn't the first time the 2 are meeting. Arman just puts on a show for obvious reasons.
Simon plays along, "Ah. A Blue Blood. How very...refined," he says as he sits down in an empty chair. He sits back and looks around the room, as if looking into space instead of focusing directly ahead.
He looks at Ginny, "Is everything OK?"
Prince Lucas groans, "Everything is far from 'OK', Mr. Simon. There's been an incident...involving the Garou."
He pauses, as if to let that sink in, before continuing, "We...were wondering if you have heard of anything..." his voice trails off.
Simon conceals a smirk and looks at Arman. The Elder Lasombra replies, "The Garou, you say? I have not heard that in over a century, Prince Lucas."
He steeples his fingers as he leans forward, "But, if I had, I would certainly tell you." There is a hint of sarcasm in his voice, something not picked up by Prince Lucas.
Prince Lucas, frustrated by Simon's cryptic words, simply replies, "Hmph. I see." He places his hands on his hips and sighs.
Simon turns his attention to Maya, "So, Maya. You have such...elegant hair," he says as his blue eyes focus in on Maya's red hair. She flinches.
She just sits there. She doesn't respond.
He continues, "You've just been Embraced, haven't you? Tell me, what do you think of it so far?" His tone is...unsettling, like an interrogator playing good cop/bad cop.
Maya nervously replies, "I--I like it, Mr. Simon. I feel like I'm a--a different person," she timidly smiles. She's stammering, she's not sure why.
Simon replies, "And yet, you still act so...naive. So...innocent. Your Clan is one that prizes Perfection above all else." He smirks. It's not a friendly smile.
It's something else entirely and Maya's not sure what he's getting at.
He looks at Maya's legs, "Perfection, and yet, here we are, all scrambling for an answer to this predicament. What will you do, Usurper?" he asks her as he leans forward.
Maya blinks. She's taken aback by his tone, but she just replies, "We will...figure out what to do. Uh--"
Simon bluntly asks, "Will you be willing to fight a Garou or do you feel that your...abilities are not quite...refined yet?" His smirk gets wider.
Maya can't help but look away. She's feeling uncomfortable.
"My abilities are still developing, but I'd like...time and space so that I can be the best I can be." She's not sure what else to say. Deep down, she knows she's not ready.
Simon nods, "I see. What is it that you have chosen as your Discipline, Maya? Hmmm? Amuse me."
"Auspex."
Simon softly chuckles, "Auspex. Well, at least you didn't choose Blood Sorcery like so many of your Clan do. So cliché, don't you agree?"
Eleanor clears her throat, loudly.
Simon asks Maya, "Now, tell me. Would you be able kill a Garou with the help of your Auspex ability, Maya? Would you be willing to sacrifice your Unlife to save those you love from...destruction?" He sounds intimidating.
Maya feels a chill run up her undead spine.
Maya replies, "I'm willing to protect the ones I care about from any danger, but I would...never kill anyone or anything. I--I don't have it in me, Simon."
She quickly adds, "And I'd never kill something like...a werewolf," as her voice trails off.
Simon admires the various rings that adorn his slender fingers. He asks, "Who is it that you care about the most, Maya?"
Maya doesn't need to hesitate when answering such an obvious question, but she feels...off. Anyway, she replies, "Lucile. I--I love her."
Simon raises an eyebrow, "Love, you say. How...quaint."
He then looks around the room before his stare is locked onto Eleanor. She doesn't shy away, but she doesn't meet his gaze either.
"Is love enough to keep one going? I wonder? Hmmm?"
Eleanor dryly says, "There are more pressing matters to attend to, Simon. Please, save your...insights for a later time."
"And what would you know of such matters, Ms. Eleanor?"
"I've been around for as long as you have. Perhaps longer. I know that you were once a Sabbat minion, but you left them behind for the Camarilla. Why?"
Simon simply replies, "To...make amends, Eleanor."
Eleanor cocks her head, "And have you? Or are you just trying to get your claws in another victim?"
Simon feigns a look of surprise, "My dear Eleanor, I am shocked. It is true that I did certain...things I'm not proud of, but which Elder's record is without sin, hmm? Hmmm?" His tone is light. Humorous, even.
Maya stands up, "So, we're just gonna have a chat about ourselves? Hello! Did everyone here just forget about the fact that THE GAROU just attacked us and they're...and they're..." She stammers as she feels a lump in her throat.
She looks around. Ginny and Arman seem interested in the back and forth between the 2 Elders.
Prince Lucas seems surprisingly relaxed. He even sighs and gestures for the 2 to continue.
Maya continues, "I don't think it's wise to just waste time...talking about ourselves. We need to figure out a way to deal with the Garou!"
Simon smiles, "Your Childe is...eager, isn't she?"
He turns his attention back to Eleanor and adds, "But, what about your other Childe? What can she do? Is she a...capable one?"
Maya mutters, "Keep Lucile's name out of your mouth, Simon."
Simon turns to her and simply asks, "Hmm? You were saying something?"
Eleanor intervenes, "Lucile is perfectly capable of taking care of herself, Simon." Her tone is confident, but her eyes betray her true feelings. She's not sure how much she believes that.
Or if she even believes it at all. But why?
Simon smiles and inclines his head, "It's always good to keep an...eye on one's Childer, yes?" his voice is neutral, but there's a hint of something sinister underneath. A threat?
Maya interrupts, "I'm sorry, but this is getting us nowhere!"
She springs up from her seat, "GAROU! Garou! They attacked us! What are we gonna do about it?!" She's exasperated. She just wants answers. Now.
Eleanor chimes in, "Yes, Childe--"
Prince Lucas interrupts, a slight smile on his face, "We will get to that, but I must say, seeing 2 Elders...talk is quite fascinating, really."
His smile gets wider, "Especially 2 Elders of rival Clans, it's...interesting to see." He sounds gentle, but he looks completely focused, like someone completely fixated on a soap opera.
Arman smiles and says, "Yes, this is indeed...interesting. I would like to hear what else they have to say." His tone is calm and collected.
He gestures at the Prince, "After all, we cannot simply rush into these things, can we? It is wise to...observe and learn when you can. Isn't that right, Mr. Simon?"
Ginny slumps down in her seat and dismissively rolls her eyes, "Deep. Real deep." She's impatient. She wants some action.
Arman nudges his shoulders into Ginny's, teasingly. She groans.
Maya throws her hands up in the air and sits back down, "Ugh. Fine." Her patience is wearing thin. She just wants to go home. But, she's not entirely sure if she wants to do that, either.
Eleanor asks, "Do you have any Childer of your own, Simon?" Her tone is gentle. Her eyes narrow. She's trying to figure out what he's up to. If anything at all.
Simon strokes his neatly trimmed mutton chops, "I have a few, Eleanor."
"Hmm. Are you...pleased with them? Or have they failed to live up to the 'standards' of the Night Clan?" She leans forward, awaiting a response. She's curious. This could prove to be useful info. Useful for what, though? Who knows.
Simon responds, "That is between Sire and Childer, Eleanor. But, if I were to pick a favorite, it would be...Octavian. He's...different from the rest." He steeples his fingers together and looks at Maya.
Eleanor says, "That is not what I asked you, Simon."
Simon dismissively waves his hand, "It's all you're going to get, Grayface."
Sensing things might get even more tense (as if it wasn't already tense!), Maya asks, "So...Octavian, huh? That's...a funny name." She smiles nervously. She's trying to ease the tension. It doesn't work. Everyone turns their attention to her. She gulps. Hard.
Simon's cold, blue eyes pierce through Maya's soul. It feels like she's being x-rayed. He finally says, "He is quite...fixated with the Roman Empire, Maya. I suggested he change his name to Octavian because...it fits."
He leans forward, "Do you have an issue with that? Hmmm?" He seems neutral, but it still comes across as wildly intimidating. His eyes narrow. He's staring her down.
Maya places her hands up, "Whoa. Hey, take it easy. It's been a uh...rough night. Just tryin' to lighten the mood." She awkwardly laughs. She's not sure why she does that. It just happened.
Ginny and Arman look at her with disdain. Prince Lucas just gives her a puzzled look. Eleanor facepalms. Simon smirks. Maya's not sure how to feel about any of this.
Prince Lucas clears his throat, "The night, as they say, is still young. But, I really must attend to other matters. I have to inform the others in my Clan of Frank's...unfortunate demise. I'm not sure if I should also mention the Garou." He looks around the room.
Nobody responds.
They don't know what to say. It's...touchy. Nobody here has ACTUALLY encountered one of them before.
(Well, except for one, wink wink).
As Prince Lucas is about to continue speaking, in walk Sheriff Eunice and Dylan. They seem...exhausted. Like they just ran a marathon.
Dylan pants as he leans against the wall. Eunice maintains a straight posture and walks over to the Prince. She's all business. As always.
She sharply nods and says, "Done. There were..." she pauses. She glances over at Maya. Her eyes seem...fierce. Maya gulps.
The Sheriff continues, "...I can't say for sure, but there were a few ash piles. I've got Frank's body, or what's left of him in my trunk."
Prince Lucas sighs and looks at Maya, "I think we ought to give Frank a proper burial. He was a good man." He nods, but Maya sees a tear of blood run down his cheek.
She stands up and gently places her hand on the Prince's shoulder. He simply holds it, tightly.
He hastily comes to his senses, wipes the tear off and follows the Sheriff to her car.
Dylan walks over to Maya, "Well, we...took care of everything. Shame. Frank was a good guy." He smiles, but Maya knows that he's putting on a brave face. She hugs him. He accepts it.
Eleanor sighs, "Well, if there is anything else to discuss for tonight or is that it?" She looks around at everyone.
Simon smiles. Maya frowns. Ginny shrugs. Arman nods his head.
Maya feels drained. Not physically, as she just fed, but emotionally.
She asks the Thin-Blood whether he's going to work tonight. He replies, "Agh. Nah, I think I'll just call in 'sick'." He gives a toothy grin. She smiles back.
Simon interjects, "I don't believe we've had the pleasure. You are?"
Dylan replies, "I'm uh...Dylan. The Thin-Blood rep for this town. Um...mister--"
"Simon. Lasombra. Elder."
Dylan nervously chuckles, "Oh, cool. Cool. Yeah, so, I'm gonna get going." He gives a little wave before hastily exiting the auditorium.
Arman scoffs, "Pathetic creature." He seems almost disgusted by the mere sight of Dylan. His nose wrinkles.
Maya turns to him and says, "Hey! N--No offense or anything, but do you think you can be a little nicer to him? He's had a rough night!" Her voice is gentle, but it's clear she's not too happy with how Arman's treating her new friend.
Arman shrugs, "It is what it is, my dear."
He stands up and dusts himself off. He turns his attention to Ginny, "Goodnight, Ginny."
She winks at him.
Prince Lucas walks back in and heads over to Simon. He says, "I would like to speak to you about...something. In private, if that's OK with you, Mr. Simon?"
Simon smiles and replies, "Certainly. Lead the way." He bows and gestures for the Prince to walk ahead. The Prince nods and takes Simon to a more secluded corner of the auditorium.
Maya sticks her neck out, as if trying to overhear the 2.
Cheeky.
What could they possibly have to discuss? And in private, no less. This could prove to be very interesting. But...
Eleanor lightly taps her arm, "It is impolite to eavesdrop, Childe." Her tone is firm and final.
Maya rolls her eyes, "Fine. Fine. So...uh...what now?"
"You may do as you wish, Maya. The night is still young. Go, take a walk, listen to a song, anything." It sounds dismissive, but she smiles as she speaks.
Maya looks down at the floor, "I miss Lucile, Eleanor. I really do. Sh--she'll be fine, right?"
Eleanor flatly replies, "She is perfectly capable of caring for herself, Childe." Her tone is curt. For whatever reason, she doesn't want to talk about Lucile. Not right now, anyway.
Maya sighs, "Well, OK. It's just that I--I wish that she would've let me come along."
"It was not her choice to make. You are still a Fledgling. You are not ready to face the many dangers of the road," Eleanor sternly states.
Maya folds her arms, "Will I ever be ready?"
"One can hope the answer to that question is 'yes'. In a few months' time, you will be brought before the Regents and Elders of our Clan, our House. You will be judged, tested, and assessed. You must be ready, Childe." Her tone is serious.
Maya knows she's not joking.
Eleanor continues, "You, Maya, must be ready to prove yourself before them. That is when you will truly be initiated into the Pyramid. Not when you were Embraced. Not when you were trained. Not when you first fed."
Eleanor prepares to walk out and Maya follows, "When you stand before them, you will show that you are worthy of the Pyramid." She stops and looks at Maya.
Maya sincerely asks, "Do you think I'm worthy?"
"I think that is a question only you can answer, Childe. Now, I must attend to...other matters. Remember what I have said." Eleanor's tone is formal, but there's a hint of kindness in it.
Maya nods as Eleanor and waves goodnight.
Arman stands a few steps away from Maya. He approaches her, "My, my, my, quite the Sire, hmmm? The expectations that she has of you are..." he pauses.
He looks around, leans in, and whispers, "Quite high for a...Fledgling, aren't they?" He cocks his head to the side. He sounds playful, but somewhat inquisitive.
Maya sighs, "Yeah. It's a part of who I am now. Perfectionism is my Clan's Compulsion. I just have to make the most of it." She looks away. She doesn't want to look into Arman's eyes.
Arman scratches the back of his head, "Well, I did take offense at what your Sire said about Ghouls. 'Volatile', as she put it. Tch."
"Take it up with her."
"You've seen my Ghoul, haven't you? Rolf has been nothing but loyal to me. Loyalty, Maya. My Clan sees the value in that. The question is, does Clan Tremere value loyalty?"
Maya shrugs, "From what I understand, it's...a pretty hierarchal and esoteric kind of loyalty. A sorta one way kinda deal."
"And a vibrant, energetic young woman like yourself is...content with such an arrangement?"
Maya softly whispers to herself, "Not like I got much of a choice in the matter."
"Hmmm? What was that?"
"Oh, nothing, it's...been a long night, Arman. If you got any problems with what Eleanor said, then take it up with her, OK? Goodnight." She's trying her best not to sound too passive-aggressive.
The Ventrue nods to Maya and leaves the building. Maya hears a car's engines start and drive away.
Ginny, on the other hand, sits on the chair, one leg folded over another. She's whistling a tune or something as she looks arounds the place.
Maya doesn't want to speak to her. At all. So, she simply turns around and prepares to head out.
Prince Lucas, in conversation with Simon, sees this and yells from across the room, "MAYA! Stay. I want to talk to you about something." He seems slightly agitated. Maya sighs.
Maya walks to the door and leans by it.
Prince Lucas turns his attention back to the Lasombra Elder, "Frank was much more than a Ghoul to me. He was my right hand man. At times, a close confidant. Perhaps, a friend. His...absence...will be felt."
"Ghouls are easily replaceable. What is it that you really want, Wanderer? Hmmm?" Simon smiles. He looks relaxed.
The Prince (ironically) seems more on edge than him.
The Prince's face twitches, "I...was hoping to offer you a position. Not one of Seneschal, as this Domain is far too small, but rather a position of advisor." He takes a deep breath. He seems apprehensive, like he's nervous. But, why?
Simon softly chuckles, "I'm not looking for a job." His tone is neutral. No anger or hatred. Just a simple answer. One that the Prince isn't too happy about. His eyes narrow.
The Prince sniffs, "It's not a job, Mr. Simon. It's--it's something that I require assistance with. I am, as they say, out of my depth with all that is...going on."
The Prince makes an attempt to appeal to the Elder's ego, "You are a Lasombra. An Elder! Your...skills would be much appreciated, don't you think?" He sounds formal and stiff. It's like he's talking to a wall. It's clear he's trying his best, but it doesn't work.
At all.
The Lasombra Elder just smiles.
Prince Lucas clears his throat and grits his teeth, "I need something, Mr. Simon. I've witnessed the...handiwork of your Clan during my travels. I know how ruthless you people can be. And right now, we need a bit of that Ruthlessness, Mr. Simon!" He raises his voice. A bit.
Simon adjusts a ring on his finger and calmly replies, "I have other...plans, Prince Lucas. But, if you're so desperate for my...wisdom, there's something I can tell you."
The Prince looks absolutely desperate, "Please!" He extends his arms outward. His voice is cracking. It's like he's pleading to be heard.
Maya can't quite make out what's happening right now, but it's pretty clear that something's going on.
Simon smirks, "That Ventrue? Arman, was it? I'd watch out for him if I were you. I'd not trust him for even a moment." His tone is cool, almost dismissive.
Prince Lucas gives a look of genuine confusion, "Arman? But, he's been..." For a moment the Prince's voice trails off as he struggles to speak.
Simon continues, "I think he may be plotting against you. Plotting to take Praxis. The Garou attack couldn't have occurred at a better time." He cocks his head to the side, as if looking for an answer in the Prince. But, what?
Prince Lucas looks absolutely shaken by Simon's assertions, "The Ventrue would never--but how?! What is the REASON?!" His voice gets louder and louder, more agitated as he speaks. He looks...enraged. Aggravated.
Simon replies, "The timing of it all is just...perfect, don't you think, Prince? I find that highly suspect, as do I with the destruction of that Caitiff courier a while ago." He sounds nonchalant, as if he's talking about the weather instead.
"You know about that?! Ah, of course you do. Ginny must've told you. Wait, you think the Ventrue were behind Max's destruction? Why?!" He looks completely baffled.
"Why do the Ventrue do anything? For power, of course. And what better display of power than Princehood. Even over a Domain as small as Plaintry." His tone is even. But there's something underneath that...eerie calm.
Something that chills the Prince's spine.
Prince Lucas stands there, in a state of disbelief. He runs his hands through his hair and paces around in a small circle, "My god. I--I just can't believe it. I can't believe that he...he'd take advantage of the events of the past few nights." He takes a deep breath.
Simon cocks his head, "But, I would suggest not doing anything rash, Prince Lucas. Let him weave his own noose." It sounds mischievous. Like he has something up his sleeve.
He smiles and adds, "Besides, the Garou themselves are quite unpredictable. Let us see just how capable a Ventrue would be when pitted against such savages." His voice as smooth as silk.
The Prince stands there. His face looks conflicted. He seems torn about something.
The Prince says to himself, "I could easily call a Blood Hunt on Arman. I could have Eunice destroy him. He would be an example." His voice trails off. He clenches his teeth as his fingers tightly wrap around his waist.
He nods as he continues speaking, "Yes, an example. But, if the Garou are here, I need my...best and brightest, and Arman, is one of them." His tone is livid. Angry, almost.
Simon says, "As I said, I'd avoid anything doing anything rash. I just thought you should be...warned, that's all." It sounds noncommittal, like he's simply throwing his 2 cents in. But, that's not what he's doing.
The seeds of doubt have been planted.
Prince Lucas replies, "Thank you for bringing this to my attention, Magister. Really. But, how did you...find out about all of this?"
Simon shrugs, "Oh, it's a funny story. But, tonight is not the first night I've met Arman. We met a few nights ago at his Haven. He expressed some very...strong opinions on the state of affairs around here, as it were." He chuckles, lightly.
"Pfft. Did Ginny know about any of this? Arman and her seem...close."
Simon shakes his head, "I fear he might even be using her for his own purposes. If that turns out to be the case, I will speak to her. I will make sure that she knows not to trust him, at least." His tone is sincere. Almost comforting.
Almost...
Prince Lucas nods and extends his hand out, "Again, thank you for the assistance, Mr. Simon. Your words have given me a lot to think about and I already have a lot on my plate as is." It is a solemn tone. Resolute. But there's an underlying bitterness, a hint of betrayal underneath it all.
The Lasombra Elder gently shakes his hand and nods, "If you are looking for an advisor, I might know someone."
The Prince cocks an eyebrow, "Oh. One of your Clan, I assume?"
"Yes. Her name's Agnieszka Cordoza, excuse me, it's actually Agnieszka Steiner. She's recently been divorced, or so I'm told. A very competent person. She may be available. I shall facilitate a meeting between you 2 tomorrow night."
The Prince simply says, "Thank you for the recommendation. Where does this Ms. Steiner stay?"
"She has a beautiful home up in the hills. Her Ghoul, Selby, is quite dedicated as well."
"Yes. Please, make the necessary arrangements, Mr. Simon. I look forward to meeting this woman."
Simon tips his fedora, "I'm sure you will. I'm sure you will." He gives a subtle smile, but it's just enough to make the Prince uncomfortable. His face contorts a bit.
Prince Lucas is about to say something but Simon says, "Goodnight, Prince Lucas. And, please, don't forget what I said. Just watch your back when around the Ventrue." He bows slightly, like a gentleman, and leaves.
The Prince stands there for a minute before snapping himself back to reality. He approaches Maya. She's standing there with a puzzled expression on her face.
She asks, "Wow, long chat, huh? So, you wanted to talk to me about something??"
The Prince waves his hand as he sees Simon leaving, "That 'chat' was private and does not concern you. And yes, there's something I would like to talk to you about." His tone is formal and serious, but it doesn't come across as...harsh. Just authoritative.
Maya straightens her posture a bit, "Um...sure, what is it?"
Prince Lucas scratches his forehead, "I would like you to investigate something for me, Maya."
Maya gets a bit nervous, "OK...?"
"First, I would like you to investigate the place where that Caitiff courier, Max, was destroyed. Till now, neither his vehicle, nor his packages, have been located." He sounds flat, almost emotionless.
"Ah, sure. Sure, yeah. I mean, that's an awful thing that happened."
Maya pauses before continuing, "Sure, sure, just gimme the deets and I'll look into it. Tomorrow night. Tonight's just been...rough. I gotta process it all, y'know?" She looks at the floor as she says that last part.
The Prince replies, "Very well, you do deserve that. As for my next task, I would like for you to be involved with the investigation into the whereabouts and intentions of the Garou in this town." He sighs as he says it, like it's a real pain to talk about. But, it's necessary.
It has to be done.
Maya tenses up when the subject is mentioned, "Whoa. I uh--"
"A favor is only a favor if it's repaid, Maya. After all, Frank died while working on your scooter." The Prince's tone is even. There's no accusation. Just the facts.
And maybe a bit of guilt-tripping.
Maya says, "Huh. Sure. Um...OK, so you're sending me to look into what happened to that Max guy and find out more about the Garou. Sure, I guess I can...do it."
The Prince softly laughs, "Yes, but be sure to speak to Sheriff Eunice. She should be able to fill you in on the necessary details." He smiles a full smile. A rare sight. But, Maya appreciates the smile.
She smiles back at him.
Maya twirls a bit of her hair. The Prince shakes his head, "Just do as I say. Don't get too involved with the others here, Maya."
The Prince sneers, "Especially that Ventrue."
Is it true what Simon said about Arman?
Maya narrows her eyes, "What do you mean?"
"The word of your Prince is final, Maya. You are to carry out your duties to the letter, not ask questions or form unnecessary alliances with others in the Domain, especially with the Ventrue. Are we clear?" The Prince's voice raises a bit as he speaks.
Maya nods, "Not like I was planning on doing any alliance forming. Haha! The Ventrue do seem a bit snobbish. But, I can't speak for 'em all, just Arman."
She continues, "You've been in this longer than I have. What do you think of the Ventrue in general?"
The Prince groans, "'Snobbish' is certainly one way of describing them. One of their Clan's Nicknames is 'Power Mongers'."
He pats Maya on the back and continues, "But, you are just a Fledgling and there is still so much for you to learn about Kindred Society. Not least of all, its politics and Clan dynamics." He sternly nods.
Maya nods. She's not entirely convinced, but she's had a long night. She looks up at the starry night sky and says, "What a night, huh?"
Prince Lucas presses his lips together into a line, "Indeed. It will be remembered." He glances at her scooter, all pristine, fixed up, and shiny. He sighs.
His eyes tear up a bit. But, he blinks them back. Maya places her hand on the Prince's shoulder. She's about to say something when a Pontiac GTO rolls up to the building. The car's lights are off. Maya notices the familiar sound of an engine.
She just smiles.
Keith rolls the window down and sticks his head out, "Yo, Maya!" He smiles. His smile is bright, but it's faded a bit.
Maya smiles and gently waves at Keith.
Keith turns his attention to the Prince, "Is it true what they're saying? Garou? Holy shit!" His face lights up. It's clear he's excited. Very much so. It's also clear that he's...troubled.
The Prince pulls out a toothpick and pops it into his mouth. He says, "Yes. We must go and tell the others before they get...any bright ideas."
He sighs as he gets into Keith's car and the engine revs. They pull away and leave Maya alone in the auditorium. She simply sighs as she looks up at the night sky.
The stars are twinkling and the moon is full.
It's a beautiful sight to see.
Maya's mind is buzzing. She's just been given her tasks by the Prince himself. A part of her, however, remains apprehensive.
As Maya's enjoying the cool breeze brush over her face, she sees Ginny and Sheriff Eunice heading out of the auditorium.
Is that...laughter Maya hears? It sounds more like a weird shriek, coming from Eunice. Maya can't quite tell. She simply stands there.
Waiting. Watching.
As they pass her, the Sheriff gives Ginny a tight handshake. Ginny doesn't even acknowledge Maya as she heads for her car.
Maya sarcastically mutters, "Sure. Goodnight, Ginny. Have a great night. Blah, blah, blah. Laugh it up, hmph. Sure, laugh it up." She taps her foot. She's feeling restless.
Eunice folds her arms and clears her throat. This causes Maya to turn around. She slowly walks towards her.
Eunice's eyes look cold...and dead. Expressionless.
The Sheriff maintains her upright posture, "So, I checked out your record."
"O...kay?"
"Orphan. Hmph. Shame."
"Hmm..."
The Sheriff takes a few steps towards Maya, "Got her Associate Degree in Communications at Magnolia City Community College. Worked odd jobs after graduating."
"Yeah."
"Now, we get to the...juicy parts. Caught in possession of various narcotic substances and a felony offense while attending a concert. Wow."
Maya shakily smiles, "Well, I didn't know those...brownies were laced! Really, they just seemed like brownies. Um...VERY TASTY brownies!" She shrugs. It's a nervous gesture.
"Then, we got indecent exposure at a bar a few years back. You took of your bra and hopped on the counter." She raises an eyebrow. Her face doesn't show any emotion. At all. It's just...cold.
Maya grimaces, "I--It was a dare! And I was...um--"
Through gritted teeth, the Sheriff says, "Spit it out."
"I might have been high at that time. Uh--"
"Hmph. Figures."
Maya gulps.
"Other than that, you're on record for wasting a police detective's time...with theories about vampires. That...particular detective was off duty." She looks Maya dead in the eyes and clicks her tongue.
"In retrospect, I'm sorry about that one, Sheriff. Now that I'm here, I promise to um...uphold the Masquerade and not breach it." Maya tries to look apologetic, but she knows it doesn't work.
It never works with someone like Sheriff Eunice.
The Sheriff scoffs, "Don't make promises you won't be able to keep. Hmph, other than that, your record's mostly clean. Mostly. It says you spent some time in lockup at Flimont City." Her voice is icy cold.
"Oh. That...that was uh...oh, wow."
Sheriff Eunice says, "I don't have all night, Usurper."
"I spent a gap year in Flimont City. And...I was walking down the streets minding my own business when I bump into this rich asshole and spill coffee on his expensive suit," she grimaces as she recalls the memory.
The Sheriff doesn't seem amused by this story, "And what happened after that?"
"He started verbally abusing me, calling me names and going on about how expensive his suit was and how he was going to press charges on me. F--for a suit?!"
Maya gets a bit agitated, "He--he tried to put his hands on me, so I...so I kneed him in the face and walked away."
Not even a chuckle from the Sheriff. She blandly says, "Ha. Ha. Very funny."
"It wasn't easy growing up alone, y'know."
"Oh, cry me a river."
"I'll be good now. I promised Lucile that I'll do my best to follow the rules of the Camarilla. It's for the best, right?" Maya looks straight at her. There's a certain sincerity in her eyes.
The Sheriff leans in closer and studies Maya's face. She notices something...familiar, oddly familiar about Maya's chocolate brown eyes.
The Sheriff recoils a bit, "Hmph. Just remember that I have a big sword in my trunk." She's stern, but it's a half-hearted scold. She has her arms folded as looks at Maya from head to toe.
She continues, "Now that you're a Kindred, you're under a different set of rules. A VERY different set of rules, Maya. If you wanna keep that pretty head attached to that body of yours, you'll follow 'em."
Maya nervously forces some laughter, "S--Sure. The Masquerade is the most important one of 'em all, right? I get it. I totally do. No uh...naughty shenanigans for Maya." She feels awkward, saying that last part.
"God. How old are you?!"
"33 when I was Embraced. Why?"
"33, huh? Interesting..."
"Why?"
"Not your concern." The Sheriff's eyes dart to the corner for a few moments. Is she hiding something?
Maya, in an attempt to be friendly, suggests, "Maybe we should, like, hang out together sometime, Sheriff?" It comes across as forced. Like Maya's putting in extra effort to sound friendly.
Sheriff Eunice gets in Maya's face and pokes her, "Listen, Fledgling. I'm NOT here to make friends. I'm not a shoulder for you to cry on. I'm not gonna go out on lousy, girly nights with you. Got it?" Her voice is firm, almost unhinged.
"Um...I was just--"
"I'm not here to 'hang out' with you or anyone else. I'm the goddamn Sheriff of Plaintry and I take my job VERY seriously. And if you wanna keep your head, you WILL remember that." It sounds harsh, almost threatening.
Maya meekly says, "Yeah...sure. I...uh, I'm sorry I asked. It was unprofessional of me. I'll just...keep to myself." She shuffles her feet, as she can't meet the Sheriff's eyes.
"I don't give a damn if you touch yourself all night long. Just don't go against the Prince's orders or violate any of the Traditions. Are we clear?" She looks at Maya sternly. Her face remains expressionless.
Maya hesitatingly nods.
"Good. Is there anything else you wanna bother me with?"
Maya awkwardly clears her throat, "Prince Lucas wanted me to investigate 2 things."
"Did he now?"
"Yep. One, Max, the courier who was destroyed, and where his packages might've ended up," she scratches her head.
"What's the second thing?"
"He wants me to uh...help with the investigation into the whereabouts and--and intentions of the Garou in this town."
Sheriff Eunice reluctantly nods, "Hmph. He's the Prince and his word is final. Very well, I'll give you the address of where that courier's ashes were found. I doubt you'd find much." She's being distant. Not harsh, just...distant.
Maya says, "And about the Garou? Any idea where I should begin? Any um...leads?" She feels the Sheriff's cold stare. It feels...repelling.
The Sheriff's lips tighten into a line, "It just happened, Fledgling. Best place to start would be the woods. Anywhere abandoned or with dirt and mud would likely do for these...glorified dogs."
"You're also gonna be looking into it, right?"
"What do you think?"
"Uh--"
"'Course I'm gonna look into it! It's my goddamn job. Now, are we done? I got places to be, people to meet."
Maya shakily smiles and nods, "Y--Yes, ma'am."
She turns away, but she hears the Sheriff's voice, "Don't fuck this up. Would be a shame if I had to destroy you again, wouldn't it?" Her voice is ominous.
Maya narrows her eyes, "A--again? Wh--what are you talking about, Sheriff Eunice? What do you--"
"You'll figure it out. Maybe, maybe not," the Sheriff snaps back.
"But--"
The Sheriff mutters, "So, he wasn't kidding after all, heh."
"What are you even--"
"Was I talking to you? Hmm?! You're done for the night. Get outta here! If I need you, I'll come find you. Goodnight!" She storms off in a huff.
Maya's taken aback. She shakes her head, "Huh. What the HELL was all that about?!"
"OK then," she pats the back of her pants and sighs deeply.
She says, "Wow. Malkavians sure are...something, huh?" She sighs again. She begins to walk towards her scooter.
She gets on and starts it up. She proceeds to put her helmet on and goes back to her Haven.
What Sheriff Eunice said about destroying Maya "again"...
Maya can't stop thinking about what the hell the Sheriff was talking about.
Something is...different with her. But what? Maya has no idea. She feels nervous, anxious, and on edge.
Maybe this is just how Malkavians are?
Probably not.
The rest of Maya's ride home is spent reacclimating to the scooter. The sharp turns are a bit tough, but traffic is pretty non-existent at this time of night.
She drives back home, wondering about what tomorrow and the nights after hold for her.
Little did she know...
Maya eventually returns to the place she now calls home. It feels lonely, empty, perhaps weird without Lucile around.
As she's thinking about Lucile, her phone vibrates. She grabs it. There's a message on it from "Unknown Sender".
The text message is one that automatically deletes itself after being read. It's from Sheriff Eunice. It reads: "5th Street. Couple of blocks north of the old bowling alley. DO NOT REPLY."
Maya chuckles to herself and says, "O-kay! I'll look into that tomorrow night. I'm just too...not in the mood for anything tonight." She rubs her forehead and throws her head back.
Maya lays down on the couch and grabs her laptop. The rest of her night is spent browsing the web and whatnot. Maya slowly starts to feel at home in her new Haven, but she can't stop thinking about what happened.
Her mind's constantly replaying it in her head. Like a loop.
But, she just wants to get through tonight and see what tomorrow night holds.
Meanwhile, a few miles away from Maya's Haven...
Arman sits on his fancy couch, one leg crossed over the other. He's still in his suit. He seems to be having a pleasant talk with someone, someone he's met before.
A man in his 50s or so. He's bald, he has a very muscular body, and he's wearing a tweed jacket with matching trousers. His dark green eyes look...cold. He's smoking a fat cigar. The smoke leaves a very pungent aroma.
He brings a glass of what looks like blood to his wide lips and gently takes a sip. He swallows, smiles, and puts the glass down.
Arman says, "So, Leonard, how was California? I hope your visit was pleasant."
Leonard "Lenny" Grayson, of Clan Ventrue. Failed restaurateur (multiple times over) and current owner of the Gastronova restaurant. One of the more prominent figures in Kindred Society, as it were.
Or at least, that's what he thinks.
Leonard's smile disappears and his lips press into a tight line as he takes another sip from his glass.
He leans back a bit and casually responds, "Great. I was looking into opening another branch in Cali, but finding the right...location's not as easy these nights." His voice sounds deep and bassy.
Leonard continues, "I did, however, meet Brayden. Your Sire. He seemed very pleased to know that you're making a name for yourself, Arman." He nods in approval as he says this, and blows out more smoke from his cigar.
Arman's dead eyes light up at the sound of his Sire's name, "Ah! How is dear Brayden keeping? Is he still pursuing the position of Primogen?" He has a warm smile on his face as he says it. A real one, at least.
Leonard replies, "Pursuing? Nah, THEY pursue after him, Arman. Not the other way around. You know that. He's got his eyes on the throne, of course." He chuckles as he says it.
Arman asks, "Speaking of which, I heard rumors that he made the 'Forbes 30 Under 30' list this year. What does the Primogen Council have to say about that?" He looks a bit smug as he says it. A small grin spreads across his face.
It's like he's...proud of his Sire.
Leonard takes a sip, followed by a puff of his cigar, "Brayden's got a real knack for making...friends, Arman. Friends in very high places. Of course, the Primogen Council is concerned about a potential Masquerade breach." He shrugs his shoulders.
He blows smoke up in the air, "He wouldn't have made it THAT far without knowing the risks, Arman. We all know that, he knows that, the whole damn Council knows that."
Arman approvingly says, "He deserves it. To achieve so much so young! Such potential, such a...leader. And now, these mediocre mortals will know it too." His tone is proud. Almost...arrogant.
Leonard chuckles, "Yeah. Elders like him don't get where they are by shying away from the risks. That's for sure." He blows some more smoke. It has an acrid odor. It's like a thick mist that permeates the air.
He leans in and continues, "Of course, his...records are a bit of a mess."
Arman smiles, "I know a few Malkavians in the Cayman Islands who are, excuse the crude expression, excellent forgers and could make even Brayden's records look spotless and consistent with his perceived, mortal age." He chuckles lightly at his own comment.
Leonard laughs, "We can't be THAT generous, Arman! Besides, we've got the SI crawling all over the place these nights. They're like fucking rats!" He blows smoke upwards, it leaves a grayish trail of smoke behind.
Arman says, "No disagreeing with you there, my friend. The SI is not exactly known for...playing nice or fair."
Leonard adjusts his collar a bit, "So, anything interesting going on in this town?"
"A lot, actually. But, there's something I'd like to ask you, Lenny. Just as a precaution, that's all," Arman leans in, a serious expression on his face.
Lenny seems unfazed, "Go ahead."
"You spent some time in Flimont City, is that true?"
"It was where I was Embraced. Why?"
"I had a very interesting visitor the other night. A Tzimisce by the name of Brock Davies."
Lenny twitches and almost crushes the glass with his bare hands, "The gay guy?! Shit..."
"You knew him?"
"Those fucking Flesh-Shapers really did a number on that city, Arman. Shit! They made some kinda alliance with the goddamn Brujah and--" Lenny pauses and gulps the rest of his glass hastily.
He continues, "--and got rid of the Ventrue that ran the city." He wipes the excess blood from his lips with his thumb.
Arman narrows his eyes and asks, "So, how did Brock fit into all of that, then?"
"Long fucking story. Me and a few other Ventrue were sent by the old Prince to rough that bastard up. We made a mess outta him. I--I don't know how he made it." Lenny sounds livid. He clenches his fists.
Arman interjects, "It seems someone by the name of...Collins Embraced him as he lay dying."
Lenny growls, "Collins?!"
"You knew...him, too?"
"Tzimisce Primogen. Loyal to the Ivory Tower. Son of a bitch has 4 hands now. Shit..." He buries his head in his hands and rubs his temples.
"That bad, huh? What did some Ghoul to a Primogen do to incur your...wrath?"
"I dunno, Arman. I dunno." Lenny looks pissed.
Lenny continues, "All I know is we were ordered to make sure Collins and that whore Roxanne didn't take Praxis. Any means necessary. So, we went after the Ghoul, Brock to slow them down, at least. Fuck..." He clenches his cigar, causing some ash to drop down to his trousers.
"Whore?"
Lenny sneers, "Yeah. The current Brujah Prince of Flimont City was and probably still is a whore. Or sex worker, or whatever they fucking call it nowadays." He groans as he says it. He sounds disgusted.
"A Brujah sex worker?" Arman sounds amused and a bit curious.
"Don't even start, Arman! Those Rabble have their claws in everything these nights! Flimont's never been the same after that, and that was a decade ago. Shit, that long, huh?!" Lenny's voice sounds incredulous, angry even.
Arman shakes his head, "Well, Brock seems to be doing quite well for himself. A plastic surgeon. On par for his Clan."
Lenny laughs, "Plastic surgery? What was that Stoker doing here anyway?"
Arman replies, "Retrieving someone." He holds the cards close to his chest, not really wishing to reveal anything more.
Lenny waves his hand dismissively, "Hmph. Whatever. Bygones and all that shit. So, what else has been going on in sleepy Plaintry, hmm? Anything more interesting?" He lights another cigar. It's a fresh one. It's not yet fully lit, as Lenny keeps blowing out puffs of smoke.
Arman twitches when he sees the lighter ignite. His eyes become dilated and he blinks them back.
He regains his composure and answers, "Well, I'm sure you've already heard about Bernice's announcement in the morning?"
Lenny takes a puff and says, "Fuck me dry. 'Course I did. So, she's withdrawing from the mayoral election?"
"Unfortunately, yes. And, I'm sure you know the...reason for her withdrawal?" Arman lets the question linger in the smoke-filled air for a while.
Lenny snarls, "I saw the fuckin' video, Arman. That loose-tongued redhead and that brunette arguing! IT'S ALL OVER THE FUCKING TOWN! Even my employees won't shut up about it."
He sighs and continues, "No idea how it got so bad. This place needs...more investments. Investments that Bernice was willing to facilitate!"
Arman casually shrugs his shoulders, "I know, I know. Me...and a friend donated quite a sizable amount to her campaign." His tone is...almost mournful.
Lenny, still enraged, barks, "How much?"
"$125,000. Each."
Lenny whistles, "Damn. I donated about 65K. What's your friend's name?"
"Ginny, she's a...Lasombra."
"A Lasombra with money to burn, huh? Almost reminds me of the Lasombra back in Flimont! Heh heh. Man, I tell you what...this place could've used someone like Bernice." Lenny looks pissed as he says that.
Arman interjects, "Yes, well, what's done is done."
Lenny leans in and lowers his voice, "You gotta make that loose tongued redhead pay for this, Arman."
"What?"
Lenny growls, "She ruined a damn good candidate's campaign, Arman! That video's the only thing people in this town are gonna be talking about for the next few weeks!"
"It might be a bit more complicated."
He sternly asks, "Why? She special or something? I don't care who Bernice sleeps with! She was the perfect fucking candidate! I was ready to spend a LOT MORE than 5 digits just to make her look good! She had it made."
He angrily continues, "The polls were going her way! Now, because of that damn redhead, all her progress is gone down the fucking toilet!" He looks ready to tear something apart with his big hands.
Arman sighs, "The redhead's name is Maya--"
"Who fuckin' cares?!"
Arman firmly says, "Lenny. Please let me finish. She was recently Embraced." He takes a deep breath and exhales. The look on his face is one of regret, frustration even.
Lenny growls, "What? Who? It can't have been us!"
"Clan Tremere. Eleanor is her Sire." He has a very faint smile as he says it. It's...very faint. It almost goes unnoticed.
Lenny narrows his eyes, "What's so funny? And why didn't you attempt to stop that?"
Arman casually replies, "Because it's the long game, Leonard. There's a larger picture that I'm...looking at." He smiles, revealing his fangs.
"Hmph. I'm not gonna argue with you in your own Haven..."
Lenny sighs in resignation and continues, "...but you're playing a risky game. A really, really risky game, Arman. You might just piss off the wrong people if you slip up or get caught." He shakes his head and stares at Arman.
Arman smugly states, "I've been discreet. So far," he folds his hands as he says it. A smirk on his face. He's very confident about his...plans. This much is clear.
"And what does that have to do with the redhead?" Lenny takes a few sips of blood. He has a skeptical look on his face as he asks it.
"I'm still...figuring her out."
"Those Tremere and their Blood magic...it creeps me the fuck out. I've seen the things they get up to in Cali..." his voice trails off as his hands shake for a few moments. It looks like he's remembering something.
He's got a terrified expression.
He regains his composure, "Anyway, I don't care how it's done, but you gotta find a way for her to pay for what she did." He growls and clenches his fists. This makes Arman flinch and twitch a little.
However, he doesn't look intimidated by this, though.
Arman holds his hand up, "Believe me. I feel your pain, Lenny, I really do. She's just a Fledgling, though. That and a few other things might prove to be an...obstacle." He sounds cautious.
He continues, "But, we have to watch ourselves. Let's just say that the next few nights in this town could get very, very interesting. Very interesting, indeed." A sinister smile spreads across his face as he says that last part.
"You on social media, Arman? Twitter, Facebook, Instagram?" Lenny takes a long puff of his cigar as he asks.
"To keep up appearances, of course. Nothing more, nothing less. A few odd pictures of my cars, watches, and such. That's it. Nothing particularly interesting," he casually responds, seemingly unfazed by Lenny's questions.
Lenny chuckles, "There's something on Twitter I'd like you to see."
He pulls out his phone from his back pocket and fiddles around for a few seconds before handing it over to Arman.
It's a post from Camden Cross's Twitter account. It reads: "Will buy Nimbus magazine for 420 mil if this post gets 69 likes."
Arman notices that the like count on that post sits at 7000, and slowly climbing. He narrows his eyes.
Lenny casually says, "So, what are the odds that the CEO of Ensure is coming to Plaintry to buy Nimbus magazine. Same one that redhead works for."
"Hmm. What exactly are you getting at?" Arman raises an eyebrow as he asks it. His voice sounds...unsure.
Lenny shrugs, "Obviously, Nimbus ain't worth that much. The kid's stupid. You and I both know it's worth...14 mil. At most."
Arman has a very serious expression on his face as he looks at Lenny, "Not exactly loose change, Leonard. But, yes. Camden is...inept. To put it kindly. Why?" His voice has a bit of an edge to it as he says this.
Lenny bluntly states, "You should buy Nimbus magazine." He folds his arms as he says it, almost matter-of-factly.
"Huh? Me?"
Lenny casually explains, "Bernice could've taken this town places, Arman. I want that redhead to suffer, just as Bernice's career has. The damage done by her...can't be reversed, not even with the next mayoral election."
He flatly states, "Clan Ventrue doesn't lose. We win, we succeed, and we conquer over all that stands in our way, Arman. It's what we do. I don't care who that redhead is, but if YOU wanna show the others in this town you're serious about being in the big leagues...I'd buy that shitty magazine."
Lenny's voice drops to a low growl as he says, "Hell, I'm even willing to help with the money." He has an semi-expectant look on his face.
Arman hesitates before replying, "An...interesting proposition. But, how would that benefit me, or Clan Ventrue for that matter?" He looks intrigued, yet skeptical of this whole thing.
He continues, "Not that I'm rejecting the offer. I've actually been quite interested in diversifying my...holdings for some time. Nimbus would be a fine addition." Arman has a serious, calculating expression as he says that.
Lenny scoffs, "Nimbus would make us a ton of money. That stupid kid, Camden, has been Tweeting out sensitive business documents related to the purchase. He even set up a poll asking his damn followers how much of the staff should be cut."
Arman snickers, "Camden Cross is the product of Silicon Valley. He's a complete moron, which is not at all unusual with these so-called 'New Money' types. If anything, buying Nimbus would only hasten its demise. Magazines are a dying medium anyway."
He waves his hand, "Everything's digital these days, anyway, so I'd also be speeding up the same process. Heh."
Lenny chuckles and continues, "Then, we go digital. Camden's actually got a pretty solid plan here. That's the whole point! He's gonna cut the deadweight and redirect it online, or that's what he thinks is going to happen anyway."
"People in this town are...old-fashioned. They won't be too thrilled about the idea of their favorite rag being digitized, which is what you're proposing."
Lenny takes another drag of his cigar and exhales, "All we gotta do is convince 'em to embrace something new. A few ad campaigns and we've got this in the bag. Trust me, they'll see things our way in no time."
Arman seems skeptical of this, "All that and for what? To punish one lowly Tremere for running her mouth? Doesn't sound worth the trouble. A Fledgling at that, Lenny. We're both well aware her Sire is no one to be trifled with."
Lenny angrily retorts, "She cost us a lot of money and time! We put a LOT of work into that damn campaign! Work that can't be easily replicated!"
"That is true," Arman nods in agreement.
He continues, "I've got my friend, Ginny, demanding that her $125,000 be returned to her. In full." His tone is grim, serious even. He's got a deep look on his face as well.
He goes on, "Ginny's an interesting woman, but she can be quite...brusque at times. Her Clan doesn't like to wait things out, you know."
Lenny lets out a chuckle and responds, "I'm familiar with how the Lasombra are. If anything, this only serves to make our job easier. If Nimbus magazine's ours..."
He adjusts his bowtie and continues, "...that redhead will have no choice but to work for us."
"I don't see how she can even have a job after what she did? What about that 'friend' of hers? Annette? Do we also give her her old job back and pretend like nothing ever happened? I don't follow..." Arman seems to have some reservations about this. He looks a bit unsure as well.
Lenny, unfazed by the comments, confidently replies, "We lay off 40% of the staff and underpay that redhead. She's Kindred, so she doesn't have to worry about food. No big deal."
Arman's skeptical expression deepens, "And what of the day-to-day running of the place?"
"You got a Ghoul, right? Let him be in charge of running things during the day."
Arman scoffs, "Rolf? No, no, no. He...is not quite cut from that particular cloth. He's my bodyguard and his place is by my side, nothing more." He says it in a way that leaves no room for doubt.
Lenny looks skeptical of this, "Then, we'll just have to find someone, won't we?"
"Hmph."
"Look, Arman. She owes us. Whether she knows it or not. Whether she likes it or not. Hell, make her work till the sun comes up." Lenny looks determined to make Maya suffer for what she's done.
Arman raises an eyebrow and asks, "All for $65,000? Of course, I want Maya to pay as well, but--" He sounds incredulous as he asks it.
Lenny chuckles as he interrupts, "All for $125,000? Plus whatever you owe your friend. And I'm pretty sure she's gonna charge you interest if you keep dilly-dallying."
He goes on, "It's the principle of the matter, Arman. Besides, wouldn't it be great to control...public opinion."
"Hmmmm. You have a good point there, Leonard. A magazine like Nimbus could come in handy should the Masquerade be breached in the near future."
"Precisely! You see? A win-win for all of us!"
Arman sighs deeply, "And yet, I feel that this...Camden fellow has never been told 'no' in his entire life."
Lenny guzzles the rest of his blood from the glass. He licks the edges with his tongue, and gently places the empty glass down.
He looks directly into Arman's eyes, "Then, kill him." His tone is matter-of-fact, but there is something unsettling and sinister about it.
His expression is chilly, detached.
Arman gulps and shifts in his seat a bit, "Uh--excuse me?" He has a shocked look on his face. It looks like he wasn't expecting to hear THAT from Lenny.
Not after hearing something similar from Simon a few nights back.
Lenny leans forward, "You said it yourself, Arman. He's not gonna stand back and let us buy Nimbus, no matter how much we offer." He takes a drag and blows a cloud of smoke upwards, like before.
Arman lowers his eyebrows, "There really is no other way, is there? Suppose we--"
Lenny raises his hand, "I already know what you're thinking, Arman. There's no other way. Camden's got his eyes on Nimbus."
Arman scratches the back of his head, "How about making him...disappear, like any other mortal? Why--why the need for death? How would we even explain this, Leonard??" He looks unsure, yet slightly concerned as he says it.
Lenny chuckles, "Make him disappear and we'll have every goddamn alphabet agency looking for him. Just like the McMahons."
Arman winces a bit.
Lenny leans back and continues, "The kid's got connections, Arman. Makin' him disappear ain't an option."
Arman replies, "And killing him is somehow better? We already have the SI and their proxies breathing down our necks, Leonard. The last thing we need is...even more trouble."
Lenny mockingly smiles, "Camden's got a...funny little video out where he threatens to sue the hell outta anyone who dares to mess with him or Ensure."
Arman nonchalantly responds, "How very...eccentric of him." He has a somewhat annoyed look as he says it. A tight lipped smile spreads across his face, a clear sign of irritation. His brow is furrowed a bit as well.
Lenny presses on, "Kill him and have Rolf dissolve the body in acid or some shit."
"Hmm. A decent plan. What about his vehicle? Or vehicles?"
Lenny shrugs, "Have Rolf dump the car somewhere. Torch it if you want."
Arman sighs deeply, "What about his personal security? How are they?"
Lenny chuckles, "He travels with some mean-looking guy. Name's Radko. Camden usually forces him to appear in his stupid videos."
Arman looks unimpressed as he replies, "Let's assume, for a moment, that Rolf and I somehow manage to pull this off...without arousing any suspicions whatsoever. Then, what, hmmm?" He narrows his eyes at Lenny as he says it.
Lenny casually says, "Then, we swoop in and buy Nimbus. Do I really need to spell it out for you, Arman?" His expression is flat.
Arman scoffs, "What about this Radko fellow? How much of a threat would he be?"
Lenny waves his hand dismissively, "He's kinda like your Rolf. Although, I think Rolf should be able to take him on, no problem." He laughs as he says it, and blows out a cloud of smoke.
Arman looks down at the ground, as if to ponder this for a few moments. He then looks up and firmly asks, "How much are you willing to...invest in this little joint endeavor of ours, Lenny?" A calculating expression spreads across his face as he says this.
He responds, "4 million. You'd have to provide the other 10 million dollars. We're all familiar with how this works." His voice is casual. There's not much emotion in it.
Arman stares into his guest's eyes, "6 million, Leonard. That's my final offer. It's only fair I'd think, considering that I'm providing most of the money for the acquisition." He has a slight smirk on his face as he says it.
Lenny softly sighs, "Fair enough. Just make sure that redhead suffers." He looks...completely determined as he says that last part. He has a dead-serious expression on his face.
Arman presses his lips together and reaches forward to give Leonard a firm handshake, thus sealing the deal. His dead eyes are...dilated. Lenny has a very firm grip, too.
They look at each other, a faint smile on both their faces.
Arman asks, "How do you propose I offer Maya her old job back? A 40% reduction of staff sounds a bit...drastic for Nimbus." He has a puzzled look on his face as he says it.
Lenny confidently responds, "Her boss, Edgar, seems to have a soft spot for her. Convince him to keep her."
Arman raises an eyebrow, "And what about Annette?"
Lenny brushes something off his tweed jacket, "Oh, don't worry about her. I think we can both agree that floozy's not worth the hassle."
Arman chuckles, "I mean, she is the one who...slept with Bernice."
Lenny grimly replies, "I don't care. That redhead had had NO RIGHT to go and tell the WHOLE GODDAMN town that." He clenches his cigar and looks away. A bitter, almost livid look spreads across his face. He blows some smoke from his nostrils.
Arman hesitantly asks, "What if Maya turns down our...'generous' offer?"
Lenny scoffs, "Have you seen the job market, Arman? There's no way in hell she'd turn this down. She'd have no choice." He looks confident as he says this.
Arman cracks his knuckles, "And the pay cut? I highly doubt that second-rate lifestyle writers for magazines make 6 figures a year."
Lenny laughs, "Who cares?"
"She likely won't even have the money to buy groceries. Let alone, pay the bills!"
Lenny grins, "She's Kindred. What the fuck does she need groceries for?! Hmm?"
Arman replies, "Well, I suppose it would be quite difficult for her then."
He goes on, "Not that I disagree with you. Still, she can be...quite headstrong at times."
Lenny smiles, "Big deal. Women like her are always looking for their next meal ticket."
"Hmm, I suppose you're...correct. We'll just have to convince her that this is for her own good. And for the good of the Masquerade."
Lenny scratches his cheek, "Heh, yeah, that could work. Tell her she's doing the Kindred a big favor. Hell, tell her she's doing her Clan an even bigger favor!"
Arman responds, "A young, inexperienced Tremere right under our thumbs. In a position to sway public opinion? The possibilities are...unfathomable."
Lenny says, "What is it with you and using fancy $15 words, huh?"
Arman lightly chuckles, "I had a very...English teacher, Leonard."
"Oh, did you, now?"
"Yes. Yes, I did." Arman wants to say more.
Leonard gestures to his host, "Well, go on, then." He chuckles as he says it. His voice is slightly mocking.
Arman exhales, "When I first came to this country with Brayden, simply put, my English...wasn't the best."
Lenny smirks.
Arman continues, "I mean, I spoke the language well enough, but the accent..." he chuckles to himself, "...my God, it was...thick, for lack of a better term."
Arman goes on, "So, my Sire hired a private tutor for me. One that wouldn't be too judgmental, and yet, firm and strict." He chuckles to himself again, and folds his arms.
Leonard, slightly bored, smiles and says, "Interesting. Go on."
"Her name was Ava. She was in her 20s. Pretty young. Very smart. A bit...troubled, if I recall correctly, but a decent person nonetheless. She was very firm in correcting my accent, and, uh--"
"Go on. I don't have all night, y'know."
"She was when I was first discovered my...Rarefied Taste."
Lenny's interest is perked up, "Ah."
Arman grits his teeth, "Brayden helped me through it. I--I owe him for that. My tutor, however, didn't like it very much. Initially, she seemed...enthusiastic."
"Heh, so what happened?"
"Well, it--" he lets out a slight laugh, "--I got carried away when I was feeding one night. The taste was so...divine, I simply couldn't get enough of her blood." His expression changes. He looks away for a few moments.
As if he's trying to remember (or "relive") something.
Arman can feel his tongue touching his fangs for a few moments, "Wh--When Brayden discovered this...I feared the worst."
He gulps, "I thought he might...disown me, or even worse, destroy me." His expression looks grim. A pained one.
Arman's countenance, however changes. A smile of relief forms as he goes on, "However, my Sire...helped get rid of the body." His eyes are a little dilated as he says this. The dead irises, look a little less...dead.
Lenny simply nods his head.
Arman continues, "Brayden helped me through it. Before Rolf, he even helped me...acquire the right kinds of meals." His voice is...almost grateful, if one were to be charitable enough.
Lenny asks, "What is 'it', anyways? Chicks in their 20s hardly sound...niche." His tone is nonchalant, casual even. It almost seems to be rhetorical. He smirks. A curious glint in his dark green eyes as he says it.
The question lingers for a moment in the air.
Arman casually responds, "So far, it's been women. Young women who...have ambitions in so-called 'showbiz'. I set up a front, excuse the crude expression, that lures them in with the promise of making it big. Most of the time, however..." He smiles. It's an amused smile.
It sends a shiver down the spines of any mortal.
He continues, "...Rolf is the one who does the dirty work. The drugging, the subduing, and so forth. I have to admit, it's been very helpful having someone with a good 'understanding' of what I need, and how I need it." He lets out a hearty chuckle at the last part.
Lenny raises his glass, "Yeah, that Rolf is a real one, Arman. I'll give him that." He looks into his host's eyes. The 2 exchange a quick nod- a silent acknowledgment of their respective 'business' interests.
And future endeavors.
Arman clears his throat and asks, "I've been meaning to ask you something...else, Lenny."
"Go ahead."
"I would like to book the entirety of your restaurant tomorrow night. Apologies for such short notice, but I have a date." He smiles as he says this. It's a pleasant smile.
Lenny smirks, "You sly dog. Who's the lucky lady?"
Arman holds his head up, "Remember that Lasombra I told you about? Ginny."
"The one you owe a 125 grand to?"
Arman chuckles, "Heh heh, yes, her. I owe her money, yes. However, I have a desire to become more...acquainted with her, you could say."
Lenny laughs, "Sure, sure. Entire place is all yours, Arman. Just don't dirty the place too much, and we'll be golden."
Arman chuckles and nods, "I am a civilized creature, Leonard. You needn't worry about...that sort of thing." His lips twitch as he says it. There is something almost...unsettling about his choice of words. And yet, Arman is...very confident.
Lenny strokes his chin, "And what about Ginny? Is she...civilized, too? You know what they say about the Lasombra, and whatnot."
Arman lightly sighs, "Hmph. She...can be quite rash at times, but...I suppose one would have to be to be a member of that Clan." He shrugs his shoulders as he says it. He even lets out a light chuckle as well.
Just then, Arman's doorbell rings.
Before getting up to answer it, he looks at Leonard and says, "Ah. That might be her. The 2 of you should probably get acquainted. Hmm?"
Lenny shrugs, "Sure, why not? I'm always up to meet a Shadow."
"That is...not exactly the first word I would use to describe them, but, very well." He walks towards the front door of his Haven and answers it.
Arman opens the door.
Ginny stands there, looking a bit bored. Besides her, stands Jacob, who looks twitchier than usual.
She gestures to Jacob, "Found him moping nearby, so I decided to offer him a lift. Told him you had something 'precious' of his?" She looks over Arman's shoulder, curious about who might be inside.
Arman welcomes them both in. He tells Ginny, "I've just reserved the whole of the Gastronova for our...date tomorrow night."
Jacob stands awkwardly in the corner, hands clasped together.
Arman, gestures to Lenny and says, "Leonard, this is Ginny and Jacob. Both are of Clan Lasombra," he gestures to Ginny and Jacob.
Lenny has now turned to look at the 2 Lasombra.
Lenny's dead green eyes study the 2 Lasombra guests from head to toe. He then says, "Hello." His face is deadpan, flat even. Not at all surprised about what he sees.
Arman tells Ginny, "You should really get to know him. He's a fellow Ventrue. Very...entrepreneurial."
Ginny looks impressed. Arman turns his attention to Jacob, "Ah, I have your crucifix right where you left it. Come with me," he warmly smiles as he says it.
Jacob hesitantly nods. He looks back at Ginny and Lenny and awkwardly follows Arman to the guest room where he left his crucifix.
Once in the room, Jacob picks up his crucifix from the side table and puts it on.
Arman smiles and places his hand on Jacob's shoulder.
Jacob winces and twitches, but he does not look away or recoil.
Arman looks around the room and asks, "Did you...enjoy your stay, Jacob?"
Jacob stammers, clearly looking very agitated, "I--I did, Mr. Arman. The water bed was very--" He looks at his scuffed shoes for a moment, and then continues, "--it was...it was very wobbly."
Arman chuckles, "Ah. I'm glad to hear that you enjoyed it. I have a quick question, if you don't mind me asking."
Jacob shivers a bit as his teeth chatter, "Uh...um, OK, I guess."
Arman warmly smiles at the Abyss Mystic and asks, "Tell me more about that...Elder you and that Banu Haqim Diablerized; what Clan did he belong to?"
Jacob is a bit taken aback and visibly recoils, "W--we, uh--um, we--I didn't--"
Arman tilts his head to the side, and then casually reassures Jacob, "It's OK, Jacob. Your secret will always be safe with me, but I'm simply curious."
"He--Hecata. Clan Hecata. He was from Clan Hecata." He shivers and shakes violently as he says it. It looks like he's fighting against himself.
Or, against something within himself...
"Ah, The Clan of Death. Very interesting." His expression is one of amusement. And curiosity. He has a faint smile on his face as well.
Jacob lowers his eyebrows as his shivering intensifies. He steps back and tightly clenches his fists.
Jacob twitches and spasms as he floats a few inches off the ground. His voice deepens. His eyes change color to a sickly yellow.
It's like someone is trying to fight their way out.
Jacob (or someone else, perhaps) ominously speaks, "I...want...out."
Jacob growls as his fangs emerge from his mouth. The look in his eyes is wild, angry, almost feral.
Arman remains calm but slowly takes a few steps back, "My god..."
He holds his hand up in a placating gesture, and calmly speaks, "Now, now. Let's just--" He stops when Jacob rushes towards him.
"LET ME OUT!" the voice growls. Jacob's grip is very tight and powerful.
Arman instinctively uses his Dominate Discipline. His eyes meet the yellow eyes of his guest, "JACOB! STOP. NOW," he angrily barks it at the poor Abyss Mystic.
The look in Arman's eyes is determined. He doesn't break his gaze, and instead, clenches his jaw even harder as he repeats, "I SAID...STOP...NOW."
Jacob freezes.
His grip loosens and his muscles go slack.
Arman commands him, "SIT. DOWN. NOW." He almost yells it out, and quickly looks towards the door.
Rolf stands at the entrance, looking slightly concerned. Arman simply shakes his head at Rolf and dismissively waves his hand. He then looks back at Jacob and firmly repeats his previous order.
The Ghoul's jaw hangs slightly open, "M--Master, is everything OK? Is it..."
Arman sternly replies, "It's under control, Rolf. Thank you." He has a very calm, almost pleasant look on his face, as if nothing ever happened.
Rolf lowers his head and simply says, "Ja."
Jacob sits on the bed, a totally blank look on his face. He stares off into the distance.
Arman gets down on one knee and stares into Jacob's eyes. He asks, "Can you hear me? Jacob?"
Jacob blinks, "Y...yes..." He has a somewhat distant expression.
Arman asks, "How long has this been happening, Jacob? This...other voice? Hmm?" He gently asks.
"I...don't know. It just--it's actually gotten worse after the...after the--"
Arman interjects, "After the attack on the McMahon mansion."
"Y--Yes. I ca--can't even sleep during the day. I feel something, no, someone is trying to take me over. I--I don't know who...what it is."
Arman gently tells him, "That Elder...what you 2 did is irreversible." His voice sounds slightly pained as he says it.
Jacob grips his crucifix tightly and whispers something under his breath. His expression is a sad one, a worried one, even.
Arman says, "Diablerie is not to be taken lightly, Jacob. It...is something that will never go away. Never. You will have to learn to adapt now."
"I...I didn't--"
"What was the name of that Banu Haqim who...goaded you into doing this?" Arman asks.
"John. John Suarez. H--he told me it was OK. He was very nice to me. I--I thought he was my friend. I thought he cared for me! I didn't think he was gonna do--do this to me!"
"In all fairness, this John Suarez fellow merely provided the opportunity. You took it- YOU eventually consumed that Elder's...soul."
Jacob gasps when he hears the word "soul". He lets go of his crucifix and places both hands on his head, "It's not just...it's not just the...voice, I see things sometimes, too. Flashes of things. Like...I'm someone else."
Arman looks up at his ceiling for a moment, almost contemplatively, "Hmmmm, the mind of a Neonate like yourself can only withstand so much before--"
"Be--before what??"
Arman reassures Jacob with a smile, "It's nothing to worry about. You are resilient, Jacob. I am certain of that."
Arman nods his head, "Besides, you have your...faith. Isn't that right? Isn't that what you...Catholics have to do? Pray to the saints?" He gives a warm smile as he asks it.
Jacob gulps, "I...I haven't been going to confession lately."
"And why is that?"
"F--F--Father Jones doesn't wanna see Kindred anymore. He avoids us. I--I'm not sure why. M--Maybe Ginny said something to...tick him off?"
Arman sharply sighs, "That...is certainly a possibility. In any case, it's clear that you are going through a rough patch, Jacob."
"Wh--what do I do?"
Arman isn't entirely sure of how to reply, so he opts for some generic advice instead, "Continue to keep yourself busy, and to keep yourself...focused, so to speak. Hmm?" His tone is reassuring as he says this.
Jacob sniffles as he wipes tears of blood trickling down his cheeks.
Arman reassures Jacob, "Don't worry, your...secret will be safe with me. Always. No one will know."
He reaches over and gently pats Jacob's shoulder, "Now, off with you. I have important things to discuss with Ginny."
Jacob stands up and gives Arman a firm handshake. He even goes in for a tight hug. The look on his face is that of someone who has no idea what he's gotten himself into. His eyes still look tearful.
But, he looks...a little happier. Just a little.
"God bless you, Mr. Arman."
Arman awkwardly replies, "Hmmm, yes."
Jacob brushes something off his jacket, "I'll...uh...be praying for you. Um--"
Arman warmly smiles, "Don't worry, Jacob. And thank you. Now, go on. There is nothing more to worry about."
Jacob hastily nods his head and leaves Arman's Haven.
Arman waves goodbye, "Until next time, then!" He looks to his side to see Rolf.
Arman asks, "Rolf? Something the matter?"
"No, master."
"Hmmm. What are your thoughts on the matter?"
The Ghoul is a bit flabbergasted by his Domitor's question, "I...I do not know, master."
Arman pats Rolf on the back and reassures him, "Well, never mind."
Rolf simply nods, "Yes, master. I shall be in my room if you need anything."
"The next phase of my plan is going to be a very...interesting one, Rolf. Do not fail me."
Rolf nods, "Rolf will not let you down, master. Never." He sounds determined. Almost too determined, as he says it. His eyes seem to almost have a light in them as he says this.
Ghouls...
Arman walks back to Ginny and Lenny who seem to have gotten quite acquainted.
Ginny asks, "So, you gave Jacob his toy back?" She snickers as she asks it.
Arman faintly smiles, "That...crucifix means a lot to him, my dear."
Ginny turns to Lenny and says, "See? What'd I tell ya, huh?"
Lenny heartily laughs, "Yeah, he really does know how to butter someone up, huh?" There's even a twinkle in his eyes as he says this.
Ginny looks at Arman. She folds her legs and pats the empty spot next to her, "Well, don't keep me waiting, playboy."
Arman chuckles, "Very well, my dear. As long as you don't keep me waiting tomorrow night. Does...8 PM sound good?"
Lenny nods his head, "You 2 can have the restaurant till 1 AM. Max. I take it that you'll be...bringing your own meals?"
Ginny licks her lips, "Yeah. Rich boy here has got a bunch of chicks with some nice...aftertastes. Ain't that right?"
Arman places his hand on Ginny's knee, "Yes. I'll be providing the...meals for tomorrow's date. Is that OK with you, Leonard?"
Lenny nods, "No probs. I'll send most of the staff home early. Just...don't make too much of a mess. Please." His face has a deadpan expression. As if he's said this to others before. It's almost...mundane to him at this point.
Ginny snickers, "Yeah, sure. The blood goes in, not all over your precious fixtures and stuff, right? What'd ya think? Huh?"
Lenny simply laughs, "Haha! I like this one, Arman. Not afraid to speak her mind and say it like it is."
He then looks at his Rolex, "Well, it's gettin' late now. I'm gonna get going."
Just then, Lenny's phone vibrates and the sounds of notifications begin. He has a slightly confused look on his face as he checks it. His eyebrows are furrowed. It's clear that something's amiss. His eyes go wide with shock.
Arman asks, "Is something the matter?"
Lenny's jaw almost drops, "Holy shit."
He proceeds to hand over his phone to Arman. Ginny instinctively moves away from the phone.
Arman asks, "What's this?"
"Play the video, Arman."
Arman notices that Camden Cross has uploaded a short video to Twitter along with a Tweet that reads: "guess Whoz cummin' 2 Plaintry soon (tm)"
The video starts. It's Camden Cross wearing what looks like a baseball cap backwards: "Hey! What's up, Cross Nation! It's yo boy Camden comin' to YOU beautiful motherfuckers live on the highway!"
Ginny groans as she hears Camden speaking.
The video continues: "So, here's the scoop, right? I'm gonna be in coming to that sleepy-ass town of yours. Hey, Radko! Say something funny."
Camden's bodyguard, Radko, keeps his baggy eyes on the road as Camden shoves his phone in front of his face: "Been driving for 18 hours." He sounds exhausted. His Bulgarian accent is even more pronounced on camera.
Camden brings the phone back to his face: "Y'know, if this Tweet gets um...6969 likes, I'll livestream me walking into Nimbus and buying the fuckin' thing? How's that sound, Cross Nation? YEAH!!!!" he loudly (and repeatedly) howls as he says it.
Ginny snickers as she hears his obnoxious wolf howling.
The video ends.
Arman simply sighs and shakes his head in disbelief.
Lenny speaks up, "We need to move fast, Arman."
"I concur. But, how do we...reach out to him, Leonard? Hmmm?" His voice sounds more thoughtful. More cautious.
"I'll DM him. Tell him one of Plaintry's more important people wants to have a quick chat. He won't say no."
Arman's lips slightly twitch, "Ah. Hmm, yes, yes, yes, that would certainly work."
Lenny continues, "You should probably hit him up on Instagram, too."
Arman sighs, "Sure. So, we're actually going through with this, then?"
Ginny interrupts with a scoff, "Damn, Arman! Y'know, you've got the stones, but WHY do you keep gettin' cold feet? Huh?! HUH?"
Arman retorts, "Because, it's a delicate matter. And, there's more to this than meets the eye, Ginny. That is all. This will likely...add to our already existing problems. The town is already crawling with FBI agents." His face has a sour expression.
Almost like he's disappointed or...resigned.
Lenny rubs the back of his neck, "Which is why we gotta be as discreet as possible. Drain him and his bodyguard. Have Rolf get rid of the bodies. And the car, too."
"What if he doesn't show?" asks Ginny.
Lenny reassures her with a firm, confident smile, "He'll show. Don't you worry."
Arman scratches his chin, "Hmm. Very well. I guess we all have our work cut out for us, then?"
He hands Lenny's phone back to him and the 2 of them give a quick, firm nod.
Lenny reassuringly says, "I'll do my part. So long as you do yours."
Ginny throws her head back, "Y'know, if ya need someone to run the mag, I might know a few people. Not too flashy, not too subtle either. But, hey, who gives a fuck about some nobody rag, right?"
She smirks.
Arman replies, "A Lasombra? With all due respect, but I doubt they're cut out for this sort of thing. No offense, Ginny." His lips are slightly parted.
Ginny pouts, "Pssshh, fine. Who'd you have in mind, anyway?"
Arman looks at Lenny and says, "I say we keep Mr. Edgar. Give him a 'promotion', even. The man knows this business from the inside out."
Lenny nods in agreement, "Fair enough. The familiarity would probably help. But, we're still going through with the 40% staff cut."
"Of course, Lenny."
Just then, the doorbell rings. Again! Who could it possibly be?
Rolf is already at the door by the time Arman stands up to see who it is. He can hear the smooth and familiar voice of a man.
Simon stands at the door. On seeing Arman, he slowly claps his hands.
Arman furrows his brows, "Simon. What are you doing here?"
Simon smirks, "I must admit, Arman. Even I never saw it coming. The Garou, hmmm? Quite the stroke of genius, Blue Blood. A bit too risky for my tastes, though, but I suppose beggars can't be choosers." He smiles at Rolf.
The Ghoul takes a few steps back.
Arman lifts his chin up, "Why, thank you, Simon. Why don't you come in?"
Simon takes off his fedora and hands it to Rolf, "Ah. I thought you'd never ask."
The Elder Lasombra strides right into the living room. He looks around the house with an amused smile. It looks like he's inspecting it for something.
Lenny stands up and stretches out his hand, "Leonard Grayson. Owner of The Gastronova."
Simon takes his hand, "Ah, that place. Interesting..." The Elder Lasombra has a smug look on his face as he says it. There's almost an edge to his words, too.
Lenny's face slightly twitches, but he keeps his calm.
He proceeds to say, "Clan Ventrue. So, you're...Ginny's Sire or something, right?"
"Hmph. No. That...privilege is someone else's. I suppose you could say Ginny and I are...associates." He has an almost knowing smirk as he says this. He turns to Ginny.
Ginny shrugs, "Sure. Whatever."
Lenny taps his Rolex, "I gotta get going, Arman."
Arman politely bows his head, "Of course." He gives him a firm handshake as the 2 men bid their farewells.
Lenny grabs an empty bottle from the center table. It's got The Gastronova branding on it, too.
He holds it up, "Thanks for lettin' me bring my own...drink, Arman."
"No worries, Leonard. No worries at all."
Simon asks, "So, where are the Garou now? Hmmmm?"
Arman responds, "I'll be with you in a minute, Simon. Please, make yourself comfortable."
He then says, "Rolf! Fetch some...drinks for our guests, would you?"
Lenny walks up to Rolf and feels his muscular arms, "You've been following those workout videos I gave you, right?"
Rolf smiles, "Ja. It is very...intense, no?"
Lenny chuckles, "It's meant to be. You've got some nice gains on, now."
Rolf nods, "Thank you. I must be strong...for master Arman."
Lenny smiles, "Yep. You're a real one, Rolf. Goodnight. If you ever need a workout buddy or someone to spar with, call me."
Rolf, unsure of how to reply, looks at Arman.
Arman gestures in approval, "By all means, Rolf."
The Ghoul smiles at Lenny, "I will try to make time this week."
The 2 exchange their phone numbers and Rolf leaves to the kitchen to fetch drinks (of the sanguine variety) for Ginny and Simon.
Leonard gets into his car. It's a 2010 Ford Mustang convertible. It's a sleek black car with The Gastronova branding on the sides. The license plate is custom, too: "LENNY1". It has an interesting design- almost like something out of a 60's movie.
Lenny says, "Ready for what comes next, Arman?"
"As ready as one can ever be in such situations, Leonard."
"Ginny's right, y'know. You got a habit of getting cold feet," Lenny smiles as he says this.
He continues, "I know you got plans. Big ones, Arman. I got plans, too."
Arman bluntly says, "Then, let's hope they don't clash."
Lenny softly chuckles, "Heh. Yeah. I'm gonna head back, now. Talk soon. Good luck with that Simon guy. He seems kinda weird, but that's just my 2 cents." He gives Arman a confident, firm nod as he starts up his Mustang.
Arman stands back as the engine roars to life. He waves goodnight as the car peels out of the driveway and disappears into the night. The only evidence that the car was even there, are the tire marks. The faint smell of burning rubber lingers.
Arman stands tall, hands on his hips. He breathes in and out as he feels the night breeze against his cold skin. The air is soothing. He stares into the sky. It's dark. The wind begins to howl.
He smirks and walks back into his Haven to speak with Simon and Ginny.
Simon (yet again) seems to be humming to himself as he stares off into the distance.
Ginny has her arms crossed. Her lips are pressed together in a flat line.
She says, "Y'know, Arman. I gotta hand it to ya. That Garou stuff was pretty smart. Pretty...dangerous, too." She smirks as she says it. As if impressed.
Or, at least, acknowledging his daring plan. (Or, half-plan).
Arman takes a slight bow, "What can I say? I am a...visionary. Or, so I've been told." His eyes twinkle as he says it. It's almost as if his ego is slowly inflating.
Simon slowly nods his head, fingers steepled in front of him, "Ah, yes. The Garou. Tell me, Arman. How did you do it? Don't spare the details."
Arman clears his throat and sits down, "Well, it all started when I was away on a business trip to Japan."
Ginny downs a shot glass full of thick, red blood, "Cool."
Arman continues, "The Ventrue of Japan had some...issues with the Garou. I suggested that they can be...used rather than outright killed." His tone is very thoughtful. It sounds almost like he's narrating a story.
Simon grabs a shot glass and slowly sips his drink, "Very intriguing. Continue." He savors the taste of the blood.
Arman looks to the side, as if trying to recall the events. It's as if the memory is slowly resurfacing. He then continues, "They took my advice and began to experiment with using them instead of hunting them down."
He goes on, "It started out with simple...hits. A Caitiff here, a Brujah there. All in need of...early retirement. They were very good at what they did, albeit a bit messy. Before this, of course, it was customary to use the Second Inquisition against wayward Kindred."
Simon interjects, "But that went wrong. Many times, didn't it, Arman?"
"Hmm. Yes, yes. Indeed it did. However, this was far more efficient. And, dare I say, vicious. Convincing these...dogs was easy enough. However, controlling them was the hard part." He has a smug look on his face as he says it. Clearly proud of the accomplishment.
Even a hint of cockiness is present in his voice.
Arman raises his chin up a bit, "Everyone needs an incentive. Wouldn't you agree, Simon? Ginny?"
Ginny replies, "Sure."
Simon nods his head as he takes another quick sip, "Hmm. Carry on."
Arman smiles, "Of course, I don't really wish to waste your time with the specifics, but, suffice to say, we found ways to...control them."
Ginny moves her hair to the side, "Mm-hmm."
Arman scratches the back of his neck, "And, so, I thought to myself: why stop at Japan? Hmm? Why not make use of these mutts elsewhere?" He leans back on his chair, hands behind his head.
He goes on, "So, a Ventrue friend of mine set up a foundation of sorts- The Haru Foundation For Gifted Youth. A place for young, promising individuals."
Simon finishes his shot and pulls out a handkerchief to wipe his mouth.
Arman says, "Of course, it's all just a front. There was one Garou who was of particular interest to us. A young, 19 year old by the name of Emi. She has a penchant for robotics and such. A natural talent."
"And so, we gave her a 'full scholarship'. She was a...fresh face amongst the other Garou we had secretly recruited. Anyway, the point is, they are now our pawns to be used as and when we see fit." Arman gives a slight smile as he finishes his sentence. He looks proud.
The look in his eyes is that of a man who is confident. Yet, unsure. He's taking a big risk here, but it's gotta be worth a shot. Right?
Besides, he's already got a decent enough contingency plan in place.
Simon asks, "Even for the Ventrue, this seems...convoluted. One could even say...risky, perhaps."
Arman replies, "I can't exactly reveal the specifics of the...methods used, Simon, but rest assured, the results speak for themselves."
Ginny snickers, "They sure do, they sure do."
Arman adds, "Besides, without risk, there can be no rewards."
Ginny scoffs, "You're one to talk." She grins. It's almost a teasing grin.
Arman chuckles, "Well, that's...different, my dear."
Simon leans forward, "Pray tell, what do you plan to have the Garou do next?"
Arman also leans forward, "Have them eradicate every last Thin-Blood in this town. Starting with that shelf stacker, Dylan." His tone is grim and leaves little room for argument. It's as if the very thought of a Thin-Blood offends him.
Simon leans back and slowly nods his head, "Hmmm, an ambitious undertaking. And what do you plan on doing after that? The Garou are many things but they're not entirely stupid. They WILL eventually catch on."
Arman's expression turns cold, "Well, then, I suppose it's a good thing that I also have a plan in place to deal with that eventuality."
Ginny asks, "What kinda plan?"
Arman teases her, "It is better to show than to tell, dear."
Simon smiles, "I'm afraid I will have to leave you now, Arman. Just remember the final outcome. Always the final outcome. And do not forget: the Ventrue are not the only ones with influence in this town. Hmmmm?" He stands up and straightens out his jacket.
Arman firmly responds, "I am well aware of Clan Lasombra's interests. And I have no intention of clashing with it. Or getting in your way."
Simon walks over to Arman and firmly shakes his hand, "That's good to hear."
The Elder Lasombra turns to Ginny and inclines his head, "Until we meet again. Make sure you pay Father Jones a visit tomorrow night. Convince him to...rethink his stance." His tone is cold and commanding.
Ginny shrugs and dismissively replies, "Fine."
With that, Simon walks to the front door. Rolf hands him his fedora and escorts him outside. Simon waves goodbye and walks away, his figure eventually merging with the dark night.
Arman's lips are slightly parted as he stares at the doorway. He's lost in thought.
Ginny walks up and places her hand on his shoulder, "So, about that date tomorrow night..." She smiles and playfully squeezes his shoulder.
Arman places his hand over hers, "Yes. Tomorrow night. I look forward to it, my dear. Do you require any assistance in getting your makeup done? I know you Lasombra suffer from a...Distorted Image. Truly a shame."
Ginny hisses a bit, "Eh. I'll uh...get some help."
Arman says, "I know makeup artists who offer at-home services. And, for the right price, they will also keep their mouth shut." He gently pats her hand.
Ginny looks hesitant, but shakes her head, "Nah."
Arman gives a small, polite bow, "Fair enough. You're a beautiful woman, Ginny. You might not have been able to see that since your Embrace, but I see it. You're very beautiful. But, the point is, don't worry. I'll take care of the preparations. We'll have something private."
Ginny shrugs, "I dunno. I had a bit of a freckle issue when I was younger."
Arman strokes Ginny's cheek, "Well, I'm not seeing anything now, my dear. No blemishes or marks of any sort. I can assure you. You look fine. Now, there's one question I'd like to ask you, if you don't mind, that is."
"Go ahead..."
"You and Jimmy. I take it that you 2 have some sort of...history? Hmm?"
"We used to hook up every now and then. Jimmy's the kinda guy who'd pull his pants down for a fuckin' glory hole in a bathroom stall, Arman."
"Ah. Did it ever...get serious?"
Ginny sternly replies, "No. It was never serious. And, that's all there is to it, OK?"
Arman smiles, "Of course, my dear."
Ginny smirks, "Ya got nothing to worry about, Casanova. Just show me a good time and bring a couple of your...Blood Dolls along. We'll have some fun, alright? I ain't the demanding type. Never have been."
Arman warmly says, "Of course. Anything you wish."
Ginny nods and walks to her car. She gets in and gives Arman a naughty wink as she starts the engine. The sound of the engine purrs to life.
Arman waves goodbye and watches as she drives off.
The lights of her car illuminate the driveway as she peels out and disappears into the shadows.
The only thing left is a small trail of dust from the tires.
Rolf appears at the doorway and says, "Ah. Master going on date, ja?"
Arman chuckles, "It's nothing too serious, Rolf. But, I have come to admire this woman in the time that we have known each other."
Rolf replies, "I...understand. What do you wish to do now, master?"
"The next part of my plan will be...delicate. Very delicate, indeed." Arman's eyes narrow as he says it.
He puts his hand on his Ghoul's broad shoulders, "Do not fail me, Rolf."
Rolf looks at the ground and responds, "Ja. I will not fail you, master." His tone is firm and determined. His eyes have a glint of light in them. It's as if he's willing to do anything for his Domitor.
Arman smiles, "Good. Now, I have to go and devise said plan. It has been quite an intriguing night, hasn't it, Rolf? Hmm? So much has happened." He sounds almost wistful.
"Ja. Master is very...smart man. Rolf is glad to have this opportunity."
"Indeed. Do not squander it, Rolf. Do not squander it."
Rolf slowly nods his head and heads back inside without saying another word.
Arman, meanwhile, heads to his extravagant study. He sits on the nearby couch and blows a raspberry. He's deep in thought. The next phase of his plan will be tricky. But, he's certain that he can pull it off.
He just needs to think it through.
And there was a lot of thinking that needed to be done for the remainder of the night.
Chapter 12: Dial G For...
At a somewhat large bar, sit our out of town friends- the Garou. Thankfully, they're in their Homid (regular human) forms.
Gunnar, of the Get of Fenris, raises a mug full of beer to the air, "To Emi! For a job well done tonight!"
He chugs his brewski down as some of the beer spills onto his beard.
The bar itself is a rather dimly lit place. The walls are decorated with old, faded posters of various rock bands and musicians. There's a jukebox in the corner that plays classic rock songs. The floor is covered in sawdust and cigarette butts.
A very rustic vibe, overall.
Emi of the Glass Walkers Tribe blushes a bit. Since she's only 19, she can't drink alcohol, so she just awkwardly raises her tall glass of sparkling water and weakly smiles. She doesn't really know what to say, as never been good at accepting compliments.
Anja of the Red Talons Tribe simply looks around the place. She's chosen not to eat or drink anything. She acknowledges the Pack's "victory" tonight, but barely. Her expression is unreadable. She seems to be lost in thought.
Torvald, like Gunnar, is of the Get of Fenris. He is also the leader of this particular Pack of Garou.
He fiddles with his hair, which is tied into a bun, and says to Emi, "Don't be nervous, cub. You did well tonight. You've helped to cleanse this town of the leeches that plague it. I'm proud of you. We all are." He smiles at her.
Emi shyly smiles back, "Thanks, Torvald." She takes a sip of her sparkling water and pulls out her phone.
Gus, who is of the Silver Fangs Tribe, sits in a nearby booth. He's eating a large plate of chicken wings and French fries. He's got a bit of ketchup on his face.
Sheila, his wife, who is of the Black Furies Tribe, reaches over and wipes his mouth with a tissue. She then pats him on the back and smiles.
However, there is a look of concern on her face.
Gus, his mouth full of food, says, "Don't worry about the kids, Sheila. They're fine." He continues to scarf down his meal.
Sheila sighs and looks away. She nods as she sees Gunnar cheering Emi (yet again).
She props her elbow on the table and places her chin on her palm, "I...just don't want anything bad to happen. Especially to Daniel."
Daniel is the adopted son of Gus and Sheila. He is of the Red Talons Tribe. He was born in Lupus (true "wolf") form and had never known any human touch or interaction as an infant. This has made him quite...different from others.
Gus and Sheila found Daniel wounded, likely shot by poachers. He was still in his Lupus form at the time. They nursed him back to health and eventually adopted him. However, due to his past trauma, Daniel has never fully recovered.
He gets nightmares, often. Dreams and traumatic visions that cause him to wake up screaming and sweating.
Meanwhile, Gavin and Erika are Gus's stepchildren.
Sheila's first husband was Gus's brother (and a Silver Fang as well). However, he was brutally killed by Kindred almost 2 decades ago.
Daniel, Gavin, and Erika are out, enjoying the town and just driving around. Gus and Sheila wanted to give them some space. Besides, they're technically adults now. They can take care of themselves.
Also, Daniel feels very overwhelmed in crowded spaces with loud music playing in the background. And the jukebox in the bar was definitely a few decibels above his comfort level. So, he opted to take his jalopy around town instead.
Gavin and Erika were both born in Homid form. Neither have decided what Tribe to join yet. But, they're still young. They've got plenty of time to decide.
As the 6 Garou are (more or less) enjoying themselves after the assault on the garage, the front doors of the bar swing open.
In walk a whole bunch of cops in their uniforms.
For a moment, Emi gasps as the hairs on her hand stand up. She instinctively looks around for an exit. The cops seem to be looking for someone. Or something.
Gunnar, who is sitting next to Emi, notices her distress and calms her down, "Don't worry, cub. They are not here for us."
Emi asks, "But how can you--"
The cops raucously scream, "HAPPY HOUR! HAPPY HOUR! HAPPY HOUR!" as they all occupy any empty seats in the bar.
They order drinks and start chugging them down. A few of them order burgers and fries, too. One of them orders a large plate of onion rings.
Anja groans and grimaces at the sight of these police officers. She rolls her eyes and mutters under her breath, "Hmph. Useless."
Torvald, however, has a different reaction. He grins widely and says to the others, "In all fairness, if they're this...loud and rowdy, then they're not really paying attention to us, are they?" He laughs as he downs his beer.
Gunnar raises his mug in agreement, "Ha! True!"
Emi absentmindedly says, "Yes," as she scrolls through her phone and taps on a few things.
Anja says, "Still on the phone? Hmm, typical Glass Walker. Always looking for the next 'technological marvel.'" She scoffs.
Emi blandly replies, "Well, I'm just texting my uncle and aunty. I...miss them very much." Her voice cracks a bit.
Anja shakes her head and looks away. She doesn't really know how to respond to that. Nor does she care very much.
Gunnar gives Emi a pat on the back, "I'm sure they're doing fine. They were quite proud of you when you won that robotics contest, were they not?" He smiles.
Emi nods, "Yes. They were." She smiles back at him.
Torvald asks, "So, what's our plan, then?"
Anja narrows her eyes, "You're the Pack leader, Tor. Your 'friend' still hasn't called back yet, has he?" she says it with a hint of sarcasm.
Torvald shrugs, "I've been trying the number for a while, now. He did say he was a very busy man."
Anja says, "I still don't like this, Torvald. Taking orders from strangers and going around like this..." she trails off and looks away.
Torvald retorts, "But everyone in that garage was a tainted leech, Anja. So, at least we know that our contact is...trustworthy." He smiles at her.
Anja snarls, "We STILL can't know that for sure, Torvald."
Gunnar says, "It's just like in Japan. We'd often get our...'orders' from some strange people. But, it worked out in the end, didn't it?" He smiles at Anja.
Anja glares at him, "No, Gunnar. It didn't. No--Not always." She heaves in and out as tears well up in her eyes.
She continues, "Takeda..." her lips shake a bit as the tears begin to flow, "...my fiancé. My love." She angrily clenches her fists and snarls as she sees the cops and others in the bar having a jolly good time.
"He died because of one of those 'orders'. Because of those...leeches." Her tone is full of rage.
She turns to Torvald and says, "And I won't rest until every last one of them are ashes under my feet." She grits her teeth as she says it.
Torvald tries to calm her down, "Anja. Please. Don't--"
Anja slams her fist on the table, causing it to slightly crack, "DON'T YOU DARE TALK TO ME ABOUT TRUSTWORTHINESS, TORVALD! NOT AFTER WHAT HAPPENED!"
Some of the cops (the ones who aren't already blackout drunk, anyway) notice this. They eventually shrug and go back to fiddling around with the jukebox. One cop wants to play jazz. Another cop wants to keep the classic rock going.
Gunnar tries to calm Anja down, "Easy, now, Anja. We don't want to draw...any unwanted attention to ourselves, now, do we? Hmm?"
He proceeds to hand her a tissue to wipe the tears and snot off her face.
Anja angrily grabs the tissue and wipes her face.
Torvald places his hand around Anja's shoulder, "He was a good man, Anja. And we are all truly sorry for your loss--"
Anja groans, "He--he was just an ordinary man. Not even a Garou. And those vile leeches still...still killed him. D--Drained him. Because he was simply in the wrong place at the wrong time." She sniffles and sobs as she says it.
Torvald calmly replies, "Yes. And that's why we're here now, Anja. To make sure that such a tragedy never happens again. To anyone."
Emi looks up from her phone, "Yes, Torvald. But why here? In such...a strange country. And why now? There were and still are many vampires in Japan." She has a quizzical expression on her face.
Torvald stifles a sigh, "Look, Emi. We came to America to meet with some...very important Garou. Eventually. This little town is just a quick stopover." He nervously shuffles in his seat.
Anja furrows her brows but doesn't say anything.
Emi warily smiles, "Uh...Anja, would you like something to eat?"
Anja wearily responds, "What did you have in mind?"
Emi grabs the menu and points to the "Appetizers" section, "Chili Cheese Fries. We can share a plate if you want," her eyes gleam a bit as she says it.
Anja exhales, "Fine."
Torvald warmly smiles as he beckons a waitress over. She has to push her way through the increasingly intoxicated cops to reach them. She doesn't really look too happy about that.
But at this point, her expression is almost blank. It's as if she's seen this happen so many times before.
She plasters on a smile as she stands in front of them, "Finally decided on what you're gonna eat?" she dryly asks them.
Emi nods, "The Chili Cheese Fries, please."
The waitress smiles at Emi, "I like your purple streaks. You get 'em done here or...?"
Emi replies, "Oh, I had it done back in Japan, but...thank you. You look really pretty yourself." Her tone is sincere and almost nervous. It's as if she's afraid of being rude to the waitress.
The waitress chuckles, "Eh, you gotta be if you want a good tip. Anyways, 1 plate of CCF. Will there be anything else?"
She points to Gunnar and asks, "How about you, big guy?"
Gunnar scratches the back of his head, "What are your recommendations? I am a man with a big appetite," he proudly says as he flexes his bulging, hairy arms. Some of the beer stains drip off of his beard as he says this.
The waitress points to something under the "Big Snacks" section of the menu.
"If you want something big, you gotta order a 'Big Snack'. They're our specialty." She smiles as she says this.
Gunnar nods, "Ah! Big, hmmm? OK, 1 Double Chicken Burger, please. And make sure the bun doesn't crumble when you hold it. I do not like when that happens."
The waitress reassures Gunnar, "Don't you worry. All our buns are baked fresh."
"Good," Gunnar takes a swig of his beer and smiles at her. She politely nods and walks away to attend to some other customers.
She's clearly tired of having to deal with drunken, rowdy cops all the time. She has bags under her eyes. It looks as though she's barely getting any sleep.
Emi pulls out another phone from her backpack and begins scrolling through it. Her expression is full of curiosity.
Torvald asks, "What do you have there?" He gestures to the second phone in her hand.
Emi replies, "Oh, it's...nothing. Just some things. Um...private things."
Torvald smiles, "Ah."
Just then, in walks, Sheriff Eunice the Malkavian. Of course, in the midst of the mortal cops, she's just one of them. She's wearing her badge and her uniform.
She has a pistol strapped to her waist. It has a silver-plated hand grip. Her holster is made from pure leather.
It's like a whole blast of cold air just walked in with her. Many eyes are on her as she strides across the room.
Torvald and Anja can feel the hairs on their hands and necks standing up.
Sheriff Eunice goes straight up to the bar and takes a seat at the counter. She pulls out her badge and holds it in front of her, "Eunice. PPD," she calmly says.
The bartender squints his eyes and says, "Ah. That means you're entitled to a 15% discount on any drinks you order." He smiles as he says this.
Eunice maintains her cold, expressionless look. She takes a good look around the place, her eyes darting back and forth.
She cracks her knuckles as she notices one of the cops approaching her.
It's Neil. He takes the empty seat near her and beckons the bartender over, "Whaddya want?" He grins at her.
Eunice leans forward on the counter, clasping her hands together. Her elbows are perched on the counter. She responds, "Nothing."
Neil raises his eyebrows. He's clearly had one too many.
Under normal circumstances, no one approaches Eunice. She's intimidating, brutal, and scary.
One would have to be to qualify for Kindred Sheriff in these parts (and on nights such as this!).
Neil sighs and says to the bartender, "Give her a glass of bourbon."
Eunice makes eye contact with the bartender and simply says, "No."
The bartender gulps.
Eunice sighs, "Leave us." The tone in her voice makes the bartender wince. It's as if a knife is slowly being drawn across his neck.
Neil leans in closer to Eunice, his breath smelling of stale alcohol. She doesn't flinch, even a little. She keeps her hands firmly on the counter, not moving an inch.
He slurs out, "Y'know, Eunice. The...hic...others here might be scared of you...hic."
He almost falls off of his chair but Eunice steadies him.
He holds on to Eunice and continues, "But I'm n--not. We might...hic...have a problem..."
Eunice brashly asks, "The fuck are you talking about? What's your name? Is it Carter or..."
Neil, despite being slightly inebriated, is slightly insulted by Eunice not knowing his name, "It's...hic...Neil."
"Hmph."
Neil wobbles a bit. He grabs a nearby shot glass (filled with cheap vodka, most likely) and sloppily chugs it down. His hand is slightly shaking. Some of it gets on the counter and on his face. He sputters a bit.
Eunice grimaces.
Neil raises the empty shot glass and waves it around, "People...know."
"Know what?"
Neil swallows hard, likely trying to hold back some vomit. He wipes the back of his mouth with his sweaty palm, "That...hic...homeless guy you--"
Eunice grabs his collar and pulls him closer, "What do they know, hmm?! Hmm?!" Her eyes are like daggers as she asks the question. She looks furious.
Neil, on the other hand, looks almost happy as Eunice holds him close. He weakly smiles and chuckles as Eunice has him by the collar.
Eunice is still holding on to him, her fingers clasping around the collar of his shirt, "I said, what do they know?!" Her tone is harsh as she looks around to make sure no one's listening in on their conversation.
Neil softly responds, "They...know. Caught it on...hic...video, we even got oth--others talking," he sloppily licks his lips.
Eunice lowers her head in disgust and groans as he wipes off some of his saliva with his hand.
She clenches her jaw and lets him go as she sees his partner, Jenn, approaching.
Jenn walks over and nudges Neil, "This bozo givin' you any trouble, Eunice?"
Eunice responds, "No."
Jenn chuckles as she helps Neil up, "C'mon, tiger, let's go find ourselves a place to rest at."
As they walk away, Jenn glances at Eunice.
Eunice gets up and heads over to the bathrooms.
It's feeding time.
The bathrooms in this bar are not in great shape. The lighting is dim and there are no windows. The air smells dank and musty, and the floor is covered in a thick layer of grime. The soap dispensers seem to be broken, too.
One could say that it's pretty consistent with the rustic vibe of this place.
Eunice walks into the ladies' room and looks around for someone to feed on.
She spots a woman applying some eyeshadow on her eyelid. She seems to be struggling to keep the makeup steady.
She's wearing a patterned blouse and a pair of faded slacks. Her high heels are on the ground beside her.
Eunice takes a look around to make sure there's no one else.
It would be ironic if the Sheriff breaches the Masquerade.
Eunice proceeds to shut the door behind her and lock it.
The woman doesn't notice any of this, as she's too busy applying her makeup.
Eunice walks up behind the woman and looks in the mirror. Her fangs extend, and her claws grow out.
Eunice places her hand on the woman's mouth and pulls her head to the side, exposing her neck. The woman struggles and squirms as Eunice holds her firmly in place.
Eunice's sharp fangs poke into her neck and the blood starts to flow. Eunice eagerly drinks it up.
The woman eventually stops squirming and lets Eunice have her fill.
After a few seconds, Eunice pulls away. She looks in the mirror, and sees the blood all over her lips and mouth. She licks it off with her tongue.
She emptily stares at her reflection for a few moments before bending down and licking the puncture wound shut.
Sensible.
She proceeds to move the still breathing woman to the nearby bathroom stall. She then shuts the door. She abruptly kicks the high heels to the corner.
Rude.
Eunice adjusts her hair in the mirror and brushes off a few stray strands before walking back out to the main part of the bar.
30 to 45 minutes pass, the music gets louder, the cops get rowdier, while the Garou continue to wait for their meal.
Eventually, the same waitress from earlier dodges and crouches through the crowd of drunk cops to deliver their food. She has a tray with 1 plate of Chili Cheese Fries, 1 Double Chicken Burger, and a few small bowls of ketchup and mustard.
She sighs deeply and apologizes for the delay. She does a sweeping gesture to the cops, "They call it 'Happy Hour', but it ain't happy when WE have to stay late and clean up their frickin' mess." She smiles weakly. Her eyes look tired.
She clasps her hands together and musters up some politeness as she asks, "Will there be anything else? Any...desserts?" She tries to sound cheerful. But it's clear that she's just tired and wants to go home.
Torvald responds, "No, thank you. This seems adequate enough."
The waitress politely nods, smiles, and heads over to another table. She has a lot of work to do tonight. And it's going to be a long night. She doesn't even get paid overtime. Just minimum wage. And tips.
If she's lucky.
Emi picks up a French fry, soggy and covered in melted cheese and chili powder. She nibbles on it and makes a face. It's...alright.
Anja shrugs and grabs 2 fries. She swirls them around in a bowl of ketchup before bringing them to her mouth. She chews them and swallows. She seems to enjoy it. She takes another bite. And another.
Gunnar looks at his burger from all sides before taking a large bite. He remarks, "Hmm, this looks...nice. I hope it tastes better!" He chuckles and continues to eat.
He offers a pickle to Torvald (it came on the side). Torvald shakes his head.
Gunnar says, "Ah, come now, Torvald."
Torvald shrugs, "I'm fine, Gunnar. Really. Besides, it's been a year since I've started on my...diet."
Anja says, a bit of mustard dripping down the side of her mouth, "I would hardly call not-eating-meat a 'diet', Torvald," she snorts and continues to eat her chili cheese fries.
Torvald replies, "Well, I'm trying to cut back on the meat, Anja."
Emi pensively remarks, "I miss Ramen. My uncle used to make it for us all the time." She smiles as she thinks about it.
Just then, officer Jenn approaches the 4. Emi almost jumps out of her seat. Gunnar calms her down.
Officer Jenn cracks a quick smile before introducing herself, "Hi. I'm Officer Jenn with the Plaintry Police Department. I uh...haven't seen you around here before." She seems to be a bit cautious.
Torvald responds, "Oh, we're just passing through. We plan to be in this...beautiful town of yours for the next few days."
Jenn nods, "Ah. Interesting. We don't really get many visitors around here. Especially not from uh--"
Anja goes first, "Poland."
Emi smiles and says, "Japan!"
Gunnar loudly says, "Deutschland!"
Jenn narrows her eyes, "Um...?"
Anja dryly says, "Germany."
"Oh, right. OK." Officer Jenn points to Torvald, "And what about you, sir?"
Torvald replies, "I'm from the Netherlands."
Jenn cocks her head, "The Netherlands, huh? Interesting..." her voice trails off as she looks around the bar.
She notices Neil slumped over a table. He's passed out cold. His face is pressed against the wooden table, as drool drips from his mouth.
Jenn sighs and focuses back on the 4, "Ah, damnit, Neil. Anyways, Netherlands, huh?"
Torvald nods, not entirely sure why this particular cop is so interested in his country of origin.
Jenn continues, "So, what brings you guys here?" She leans forward a bit.
Torvald responds, "We're here on vacation. I believe that this town is part of the American Northeast, yes."
Jenn nods, "Yep."
She continues, "Y'know, we don't get many visitors often. Especially not to sleepy Plaintry. Well, not since the..."
She pauses and scratches the back of her head.
Gunnar prompts her to go on as he continues wolfing down his burger, "Not since the...?"
Jenn looks at him, "The university- The University Of Plaintry closed down. From what others told me, we had a lotta foreign students, especially from the Netherlands." She smiles at the group.
Emi smiles back, "Why did the university close down?"
Jenn shrugs, "Dunno the specifics, but it probably had something to do with a professor and a student. An affair or something like that." She shrugs again.
Torvald asks, "Not to sound disrespectful, but it seems a bit...petty, no? If every university closed down whenever a professor and a student had an affair, then..."
Jenn interjects, "Yeah, yeah, I know. But, it's not like WE can do anything about it now. That was decades ago."
Gunnar says, "Shame," as a bit of food comes flying out of his mouth. He quickly covers his mouth with his hand and apologizes.
Jenn shakes her head and smiles, "Egh. Don't worry about it. Happens all the time."
She looks at the group, "Just...uh keep outta trouble, alright? The last few days have been kinda rough for us." She refuses to say more.
Anja lowers her head and says nothing.
Emi nods.
Gunnar gives a thumbs up.
Torvald says, "Of course, officer. We are not here to make trouble."
Jenn grins, "Good. Glad to hear that."
She looks around the bar and sees that her colleagues are getting rowdier by the minute. They beckon her to join them.
She exhales and says goodbye to the 4 before heading over to her colleagues.
As she leaves, Torvald's phone vibrates. He picks it up and smiles. He says, "Ah, about time! I should probably go to a quieter place to take this."
He excuses himself and answers the call as he shuts his ear to the loud music.
Anja sighs deeply as she watches him leave.
She grits her teeth, "I am still uncertain about this arrangement. Are we sure about this, Gunnar?"
Gunnar firmly replies, "Torvald is our Pack leader, Anja. I trust his judgment. I suggest you do the same." He continues to eat his burger.
Anja huffs and looks away. She doesn't say anything.
Emi looks down at her phone and subtly nods, in agreement with Gunnar. She sheepishly picks up a few pieces of fries and eats them up.
Meanwhile, Eunice approaches Neil who has just woken up from his drunken stupor. He's still a bit dazed and confused.
Eunice says, "Let's go someplace...private."
Neil gasps, "Oh, baby, I knew you'd come around!" He chuckles as he says it.
Eunice rolls her eyes as Neil and her head to a more secluded part of this bar.
Neil bites his lips and rubs his hands together as they sit down at a table.
Eunice calmly says, "You were saying something earlier? Tell me what you know. I already know about the video. But what was this about people talking?"
Neil, still inebriated, says, "Oh, I thought this was a..."
Eunice scoffs, "This isn't a booty call, Neil. Just tell me what you know."
Neil groans, "Fine. Fine. Look, I don't know much, Eunice. But certain people in this town just don't...respect the badge. Y--Y'know what I mean?"
Eunice dryly responds, "I can relate."
Neil belches, "Anyway, point is, we've got people talkin' about what happened that night."
"What people?"
"Doc Sandoval, for one."
"He's dead, Neil. I heard he was stabbed. Heh."
Neil looks to the side, "Yeah, uh..."
Eunice narrows her eyes and looks at Neil, "Who are the others?"
"Some paramedic chick. I think she was one of the first responders at the scene. We gotta deal with 'em, Eunice! Before this gets outta hand! I ain't going down, but if I do, I'm taking you all with me!"
Eunice maintains her icy stare, "Is that a threat, Neil?"
Neil repeatedly shakes his head from side to side, "No, no, Eunice. It's not. I'm just saying...we need to be careful. It just isn't your ass on the line, it's ours too!"
Eunice dismissively waves her hand, "Let 'em talk. I did what I had to do that night. And I'll do it again if I have to."
Neil gulps, "But, Eunice--"
Eunice grabs his collar and pulls him closer, "No buts. We're Plaintry's finest and we either do our goddamn jobs or we don't. So, which is it, Neil?"
Neil shakily responds, "I totally agree! I--I'm just saying, Eunice, maybe we should--"
Eunice snarls at him, "They either learn to respect the badge or suck on the boot."
Neil nervously smiles and chuckles as he hears his 3 favorite words: "Respect the badge."
Eunice asks, "The fuck's wrong with you? Something funny?"
Neil bites his lip, "Damn. You're my kinda girl, Eunice."
Eunice rolls her eyes, "Ugh. You're drunk, Neil. Go home. Get some sleep."
Neil stumbles out of his chair and stands up. Eunice steadies him as he wobbles around.
He leans into her ear and whispers, "Wanna...touch?"
Eunice makes a face and calls Jenn over.
Jenn has an unlit cigarette in her hand. She walks over and asks, "What's up?"
Eunice points to Neil, "Make sure he gets home safe."
Jenn laughs, "Ten-Four."
Jenn holds Neil close and says, "C'mon, tiger. Let's get you home."
Neil mumbles, "I think...I'm in love."
Jenn laughs again, "Uh-huh."
As they walk away, Eunice mutters something under her breath.
She looks around the bar and sees that Jenn and Neil have left. The other cops are either too scared or too drunk to approach her, so she just sits there, staring blankly at the wall.
She doesn't even notice Torvald coming back from his phone call. He sits down next to her and says, "Ah, hello."
She simply nods back.
Torvald continues, "Quite a night, yes?"
Eunice stares straight ahead, "Uh-huh."
He leans in a bit closer, as if trying to get a better look at her face.
Eunice moves back, "The fuck are you doing?"
Torvald holds his hand up, "Ah, nothing. My apologies."
Eunice scoffs, "Hmph."
Torvald presses his lips together in a firm line, "I should probably get going."
"Best decision you'll ever make, mister."
He heads back to his friends, smiles, and sits down.
Anja notices him smiling and asks, "Well, what did you find out? What's next?" Her voice is dripping with a bit of suspicion and paranoia.
Torvald smiles, "This is it. Our contact said the next one will be quite...big." His voice is calm and measured. As usual. But there's a hint of excitement in it.
An excitement that is almost...primal.
Gunnar asks, "'Big' in what way, exactly?"
Torvald replies, "He claims to know who the leader of these Wyrm-tainted beasts is. He even knows where this thing...works."
The other 3 look at Torvald with interest. Emi even sits up a bit more. Her interest is clearly piqued. They are all waiting for him to say more.
Torvald continues, "Like last time, he wants us to meet his assistant at that same old abandoned resort construction site."
Gunnar groans, "Ah, yes, Raphael." He mutters something incomprehensible under his breath and shrugs.
Anja asks, "Torvald, do you sense the presence of the Wyrm in this place? This...bar."
Torvald sharply exhales, "Yes, Anja. Just a bit, but it's definitely here. Most likely in one of these police officers."
He looks around the room, searching for anyone or anything out of the ordinary. But nothing stands out. And yet, something seems to be amiss. As if...this is just a false sense of security. That's it, nothing more, and nothing less.
Gunnar sniffs the air and closes his eyes, "Yes, you are correct, Anja. Even now, I can sense the presence of the Wyrm. It's faint, but it's here."
Emi, a bit concerned, asks, "When we begin our attack, how can we be certain that no innocents are harmed? From what I've been told, vampires do like to hide amongst the living."
Anja dismissively says, "Don't spend too much worrying about them. Even THEY are tainted by the Wyrm."
Emi seems slightly taken aback by Anja's remark.
Torvald interjects, "Either way, Emi has a point. It's best to not do things rashly." His tone is cautious but still upbeat.
Gunnar snorts, "Hmm, yes!"
Anja lowers her head, "You are the leader of the Pack, Torvald and I will follow you. I will follow your lead and do what you think is right." Her voice is somewhat uncertain and insincere.
Emi eagerly says, "I am with you till the end, Torvald! The Wyrm must be destroyed, and its corruption purged." She smiles from ear to ear as she says this.
Torvald chuckles and places his hand on Emi's shoulder, "Your enthusiasm is certainly something, Emi. It's very admirable. It will surely help us in this sacred task," he gives her an affectionate smile as he says this.
Gunnar remarks, "Yes! The cub is ready for more! The power of Gaia flows through her!" He ruffles Emi's hair and gives her a firm pat on the back.
Torvald grins, "Yes. Let us hope Gaia is good to all of us when the time comes. Now, come, let us go." He stands up and stretches.
The other 3 get up from their seats as well. They pick up their stuff and make their way to the door.
Torvald pulls some money from his wallet and leaves it in the cheque book. Additionally, he leaves a very generous tip of $10.
They head to the entrance of the bar. Eunice sees them leaving and cocks an eyebrow. Her dead eyes follow the 4 as they talk amongst themselves.
Anja remarks, "Hmm. The taint of the Wyrm is definitely strong in this place. The police...they're not clean either, are they, Torvald?" Her voice is heavy with suspicion.
Torvald nods, "Indeed, that might very well be the case." He looks over at Eunice for a few seconds before opening the door. He continues, "Let's just leave this place."
The moon is out, but it's hidden behind a thick layer of fog.
Gus and Sheila join the 4. Gus says, "Damn. What a night. What. A. Night." He rubs his belly and yawns.
Sheila asks the others, "Did you feel it, too? The Wyrm. Its taint...the corruption. It's almost suffocating!" Her face scrunches up as she says this. She looks very disturbed.
Gunnar snorts, "Indeed!"
Anja silently nods.
Torvald tells Gus and Sheila, "I've spoken to our contact. We're to meet at the same place like last time. Tomorrow at 7 PM." His voice is serious but also cautious. He wants to ensure that no one in his Pack gets hurt or harmed in any way.
Especially Emi, Daniel, Gavin, and Erika.
Gus nods, "Very well. But, for what it's worth, your contact seems legit enough. Everyone in that garage was one of 'em. Fuckin' bloodsuckers." He clenches his fists. Sheila places a hand on his shoulder.
Sheila tells Torvald, "We trust your judgment, Torvald. It's clear that your contact knows more than us."
Anja mutters, "Why don't we ever get to meet whoever this is?"
Torvald responds, "I asked him the same thing and he claimed to be a very busy man with an...irregular schedule. He told me he'd only be available to assist us as long as we did everything HIS way."
Emi nods, "Well, that seems fair. We have to remember that we are in a strange...country."
Sheila and Gus share a quick look between them.
"Mm-hmmmm," Gunnar says, as he strokes his beard. He looks off in the distance for a bit. As if lost in thought.
Fast forward a few hours later...
The sun will soon be up, which means it's bedtime for the Kindred of Plaintry.
The past few nights have been intriguing, to say the least!
Maya dresses down to her bra and panties and plops onto the bed. She sighs deeply as she gets comfortable.
She's got the bed all to herself. She's already starting to miss Lucile.
Her thoughts turn to the new friend she's made: Dylan.
Maya smiles.
Maya pulls the sheet over as a few tears of blood escape from her eyes.
Eventually, she falls into a deep, likely dreamless day-sleep.
Meanwhile, Anja sits up on her bed, her eyes darting around the room. Her thoughts race. She can't stop thinking about the attack on the garage earlier tonight.
A part of her feels a twinge of guilt and regret. She shakes her head and tries to calm down.
Gunnar lays in his bed, snoring loudly, as usual.
Light from a phone shines onto Emi's face.
Anja says, "Keep doing that and you'll end up in glasses like me. What are you even doing?"
Emi's voice is hushed as she says, "Trying to find out more about that professor and student at that university that police lady told us about."
Anja groans, "My god. Of all the things to be looking at...this is what you do in bed?"
"Ssh! It's not my fault that I have trouble sleeping, OK?! I want to know more!" Her voice is filled with curiosity.
Anja dryly asks, "Hmph, I'm having trouble sleeping, too. So, did you find anything...salacious?" She lets out a slight chuckle.
Emi shakes her head, "No, nothing like that, Anja. Just articles about some man named William Mc-Ma-hon." She has slight trouble pronouncing "McMahon".
Anja sighs, "And what about this man?"
"It says here that he had the proceedings initiated against the professor." She lowers her phone as she reads through the article.
Anja asks, "Did you find anything else?" Her tone is mildly curious, but her interest in this is just superficial at best.
"Apparently, he and this professor, who is not named for some reason, had a long history of animosity. They hated each other and disagreed on many things."
Anja rolls her eyes, "It happens, Emi. Regular humans are like that. Us Garou, not so much. We are above petty arguments and petty emotions. We are...better than them. The sooner you learn that, the better."
"But, Anja, aren't we also...regular humans? We bleed, we breathe, we feel, we--"
Anja shakes her head and responds, "Heh. Don't let a Red Talon hear you say that."
"But--"
Anja sighs deeply and lies on her bed, facing away from Emi.
She simply says, "Go to sleep, Emi. There's nothing more to speak about."
"But, Anja, the article says that the student in question might've been pregnant!" Her voice is still hushed.
"..."
"I...I don't know why, but this is all very interesting to me." She says that as she scrolls through the article.
Anja still isn't feeling too sleepy. She says, "Hmph. Very well, go on. But keep it down."
Emi continues, "It says here that the student missed classes and did not return for many months."
"What makes her so special, anyway?"
"Another article I read claimed that she wasn't from America, that she was one of the many...foreign students who had attended the university. Many were from the Netherlands at the time!"
Anja replies, "If she had any sense...and dignity, she would have terminated the pregnancy."
"It doesn't say anything like that in the article."
Emi pauses for a few moments, erratically scrolling through her phone. She finally finds something, "Oh, wait. THIS article is claiming that the student was not a foreign national."
Anja scoffs, "Hmph. Typical. Can't even get their nonsense correct. Kurwa (PL: Fuck)."
Emi innocently asks, "What does that word mean, Anja?"
Anja sleepily mutters, "Heh, heh. Maybe I should teach you some Polish..." Her eyes are half-closed. She yawns. The bed sheet is pulled over her.
Emi softly replies, "That would be...nice. Anyways, this article claims that the woman kept the baby."
"Hmph. How sad. So, where is...it now?"
"Uh...it says here that they are probably still out there. Probably." Emi's voice is laced with a bit of sadness. And confusion.
Anja asks, "And when was all...this?"
"About 30 or so years ago. That would mean that baby is...!"
Anja mumbles, "Hmph. Probably." She's already halfway asleep.
Emi asks, "Do you think they know who they are, Anja?"
Anja indifferently responds, "For their sake, I hope not. The...shame itself would be too much to bear. If they're lucky, they'd never know. Maybe, one day, they might find out. But until then..." her voice trails off.
Emi strokes her chin, "What if they are still living in this town?"
Anja sighs, "Yes, what a brilliant theory, Emi. Tomorrow, both of us should go around town and ask every 30+ year old about their parentage. I'm sure they would LOVE to tell 2 complete strangers about it!" Her voice drips with sarcasm.
Emi quietly says, "You are...not taking me seriously."
Anja retorts, "That is because there's nothing TO take seriously." She yawns and wiggles on her bed, trying to find a more comfortable position.
She mutters, "Goodnight, Glass Walker." She's clearly had enough of this conversation. Or, rather, non-conversation.
Emi shakes her head and has a bit of a disappointed look on her face. She simply says, "Goodnight, Anja."
She turns her attention back to her phone. She goes back to looking up stuff about Plaintry. About the University. About its students and faculty.
It's mostly dead links, contradictory articles, and a bunch of he said, she said type of stuff.
Nothing concrete. Nothing definitive.
At least, not yet.
Emi's eyelids become heavy. She puts her phone away, fluffs her pillows, and eventually, falls asleep. The soft glow from the window provides the room with enough light. It's not too bright, though.
Just enough for everyone to comfortably sleep in. For the next few hours, at least.
A few hours pass and Anja stirs. Her eyes slowly open. She looks around the room. She sees Emi, sleeping on the bed, her chest rising and falling with every breath.
The 4 walls of the room come down like cardboard, and she sees herself standing in a strange (yet familiar) place.
This place is shrouded in a layer of purple mist. It's like a dream that refuses to let go. The wind howls as it whips around the dead trees with their black leaves falling.
Anja blinks and she now finds herself standing in front of a tree with its colorful leaves swaying back and forth. She can hear a familiar voice in the distance. It's coming from behind the tree.
She slowly walks around the tree and sees...him.
Takeda. Her fiancé. Now deceased.
He looks to be in his late-20s. His long black hair is tied into a ponytail. He's wearing a patterned montsuki (male kimono). His face is narrow and his look is gentle.
Anja gasps, "Takeda!"
She runs over and tries to hug him, but she just goes through him.
Takeda clasps his hands in front of him, "Anja...it's been so long." He looks at her with a sad smile on his face.
He looks around and asks, "What is this place, my love?"
Anja doesn't know how to answer. Of course, she knows it's The Umbra- in short, a realm that exists alongside and yet separate from the material world.
There's much MORE to it than that, of course, but this is the least complicated explanation!
Anja gently laughs, "Was it not the place you proposed to me? Under this...tree?"
Takeda smiles, "I remember that afternoon." He looks up at the hazy black sky and continues, "It was a beautiful afternoon. The sun was just setting. The sky was streaked with orange and pink. I had just got off work early."
Anja smiles, "Yes, you told me to meet you here..." her voice trails off.
She looks at Takeda. She can't help but notice that he's phasing in and out, like a flickering hologram.
Anja asks, "Takeda, what's happening?" She's desperate for answers.
Takeda simply replies, "I would ask you the same, my love. I felt pulled here, to this place, by...you."
Anja's eyes moisten a bit, "I suppose I just missed you, Takeda. It has not been easy without you."
Takeda nods, "I know. I'm sorry. But I'm here now, aren't I?" He gives her another sad smile.
Anja gulps and nods back, "Yes, you are."
Takeda studies Anja's face for a while, "I feel that there is something...unsaid between us, Anja. That is perhaps why I feel so much anguish when I see you."
Anja vigorously shakes her head, "No, Takeda! P--Please do not say that," she says this as she looks away from him.
He walks closer to her. He tries to place his hand on her shoulder, but it just phases through her.
He sighs and gently says, "You must tell me what's bothering you. There's something that you need to get off your chest."
Anja looks down at the ground, "No."
"Anja, come now. How can either of us move on if you keep...hiding whatever it is you are hiding from me?"
Anja looks up, her eyes watery, "You died because of me, Takeda."
Takeda cracks a quick smile, "Do not blame yourself for that, Anja. It all happened so...quickly. I felt a prick in my neck, and then the blood slowly escaping my body as I gradually lost consciousness."
Anja sniffles, "It was my fault, Takeda. If I had been more careful, if I had--"
"No, my love. That was not your fault. I should have seen the signs, Anja. The erratic behaviors, the pale skin, and so on."
Anja sighs, "And yet, you didn't. And I failed you."
Takeda shakes his head, "No, Anja. You didn't fail me. We were both victims of highly manipulative creatures."
Anja looks up at him, "So, you don't blame me?"
Takeda shakes his head, "I could never blame you for that, my love."
He pauses and continues, "And yet I feel that you are keeping something from me." He gives her a sympathetic look.
Anja blurts out, "I'm a Garou! A werewolf!"
Takeda puts his hands behind his back and looks at the infinite emptiness around him.
He coyly smiles, "I had a feeling that there was something different about you, Anja."
Anja stammers, "I--I wanted to tell you. So many times, but our...kind are bound by certain rules. And--And--"
"And you were afraid. Afraid of how I would react?"
"Yes," she softly says, as tears stream down her face.
She wipes them away with the back of her hand.
Takeda nods, "I understand, Anja. It must have been difficult for you. And yet, I feel there is something else you are hiding from me."
Anja shakes her head, "No, that's all of it. That's everything."
Takeda raises an eyebrow as he rapidly phases in and out, "Anja...there's no need to hide from me. Please. Whatever it is, I will not hold any animosity towards you. I promise."
Anja sniffles and wipes her nose.
She takes a deep breath and says, "I--I..."
"Yes?"
Anja swallows hard, "I terminated the pregnancy. I--"
Takeda lowers his head, "Oh, Anja--"
"I was so scared, Takeda. So scared. I could not bring a child into a world so cruel and uncaring. So, I made a choice."
She starts sobbing, her face in her hands.
Takeda looks at her with a mixture of sadness and understanding.
He says, "My love, it is all right. You did what you had to do."
In between sobs, Anja says, "Without you, how could...I? I--"
"No, my love. Do not say that. You are strong and capable."
He kneels in front of her, "I feel my time in this...strange place running out. I know not when we shall see each other again."
She also kneels down and looks into his fading eyes, "No, Takeda! Please! Stay! Just--just a little longer."
He warmly smiles as his skin gets paler, "Anja, I will always be with you."
He points to her heart, "Look for me amongst the trees of the forest. In the songs of the birds. In the stars in the sky. I will always be there, my love."
Anja sobs, "Please, Takeda. Please--"
He gives her a look that says, "Goodbye."
His skin turns deathly pale. He gasps in shock as blood pours out from puncture wounds on the side of his neck, where he was bitten. He collapses to the ground, his eyes closed.
Slowly, he fades away as his particles are gently scattered across The Umbra.
Anja stretches out her hand and screams, "Nooooo! Not again! Nooooooo!" She frantically looks around and stretches out her hands to try and grab onto the fleeting particles.
But it's too late.
He's gone. Again.
Anja hears a voice echoing throughout The Umbra. It is neither male nor female. It simply says, "The Glass Walker looks up to you. Treat her well."
Anja is left alone, kneeling on the ground. She looks around. The mist is gone. The trees are gone, so are their leaves. The black sky is gone.
Everything is slowly fading into dust as a storm of flies and other chittering insects from the east approaches.
The storm is coming. It's getting closer. Closer. Closer. Closer. Closer. Closer. Closer.
Eventually, all is consumed by the living storm.
Anja gasps and wheezes as she springs up from her bed. She's covered in sweat. Her heart is racing. Her breathing is rapid. She looks around and sees that she's still in her room.
The sun is shining brightly through the window.
It's likely afternoon already. Even though she spent mere minutes in The Umbra, hours have passed in the material world. Such is the flexible nature of time in the other realms!
Anja takes a few deep breaths and lies back down on her bed. She closes her eyes and tries to breathe in and out. In and out, just like those videos she has saved on her phone. Those little breathing exercises. They help calm her down.
Most of the time, anyway.
She looks over at Emi, who is still sleeping peacefully. She sighs and looks up at the ceiling.
Anja softly says to herself, "Takeda. My love." She places a hand on her chest and takes another deep breath. She closes her eyes and tries to fall back asleep.
Meanwhile, in a diner not too far from the BNB...
Officer Jenn sits across Officer Neil.
Neil is wearing sunglasses and slowly drinking some green gloop. His head is pounding. He's got a major hangover. He groans and burps. He rubs his forehead and squints. The light is hurting his eyes.
He angrily mutters, "Ugh, what a damn night."
Jenn chuckles, "Yeah. So, you wanna talk about it?"
Neil groans and goes back to sipping his green gloop. He doesn't respond. He just sits there, staring at the wall. His thoughts are a jumbled mess. He can't even remember what happened last night.
Jenn smirks, "Saw you and Eunice getting all...handsy." She wiggles her eyebrows as she says this.
Neil lowers his sunglasses and looks at Jenn with bloodshot eyes, "Ugh, really, huh? I dunno. It's all a big blur."
"Eh, relax, it'll come back to ya. Eventually."
Neil belches and says, "Gah, I don't even remember how I got home."
Jenn shrugs, "Don't worry about it. You were pretty wasted, so I drove you home. You're welcome."
Neil rubs his temples and sighs, "Thanks, Jenn."
"Anytime." She takes a sip of her coffee.
Neil asks, "So, what did you do after that?"
"I went back to my place and called it a night. Why?"
Neil shrugs, "Nah, just wondering."
Jenn leans in closer and lowers her voice, "What about the other...thing. Y'know. You're sure you didn't run your mouth off to anyone? Even Eunice?"
Neil thinks for a moment and then shakes his head, "Nah, I'm good. I think. I know how to hold my liquor, Jenn."
His appearance and overall demeanor would say otherwise.
Jenn scoffs, "Yeah, OK. Well, just be careful, alright? Don't want any loose lips sinking any ships, y'know?"
Neil nods, "You're in this with me, Jenn. We're all in it now."
Jenn narrows her eyes and sighs, "Hmph. I guess that's one way of putting it. There might be another one, Neil."
Neil adjusts his sunglasses and shifts in his seat, "Another one? What--what do you mean?"
"That paramedic. The one who showed us some attitude that day."
Neil grunts and clenches his fists, "You want me to take care of her, too? Say the word, Jenn, and I'll make sure she doesn't make it home for dinner."
Jenn shakes her head, "No, no. Not yet. I think we should wait a bit. See what happens. Let's just...play it cool for now, OK? No more rash moves."
Neil sneers, "It's our asses on the line here, Jenn."
Jenn retorts, "I KNOW that, dumbass. But we gotta be smart about this."
Neil grumbles, "Yeah, yeah. But, I did what I had to do to Doctor Sandoval. He was a real piece of work."
Jenn sharply exhales, "You did what you had to do. I just wish you didn't drag me into it."
Neil scoffs, "You're the fucking one who insisted that we be transparent with each other. And now, look where it's got us!"
Jenn rolls her eyes, "I'm starting to regret that decision."
Neil blandly says, "Too late. What's done is done. We just gotta let it play out. Whatever happens, happens."
Jenn leans back in her seat and takes another sip of coffee, "Mm-hmm. Whatever."
Neil asks, "So, what else is new in this town?"
Jenn pours a packet of sugar into her coffee, "Apart from all the feds sniffing around cuz of the McMahon mansion fire, not much."
Neil lowers his head, "I wanna be a part of that investigation, Jenn. Something about the whole thing just doesn't seem right."
Jenn dismissively waves her hand, "It was a tragic accident. No foul play suspected so far. The fire department said it was probably due to faulty wiring or something like that."
Neil leans forward, "Bullshit. It's ALL BULLSHIT, Jenn. I know it. You know it, too!"
"And what's your source, hmmm?"
"My gut, Jenn. My gut. And my gut is telling me that something stinks about that whole thing."
Jenn laughs, "You should really get those stomach ulcers checked out, Neil. Seriously."
Neil grumbles, "Fuck you, Jenn."
Jenn smirks, "Hey, I'm just saying. Maybe it's all in your head. Either way, you gotta give the FBI some space to do their job."
Neil sarcastically says, "Yeah, right. Like they're gonna tell us lowly cops anything."
Jenn snorts, "They're not so bad, actually. That Higgins guy actually seems pretty chill."
Neil sighs, "Yeah, yeah. Whatever."
Jenn adds, "And there was this other FBI guy, too."
Neil cocks an eyebrow, "Oh? Another one? Who?"
Jenn shrugs, "Dunno. Name sounded kinda funny. Born? Nah..." Her voice trails off as she tries to remember.
Neil chuckles, "Born? What the fuck kind of name is that?"
Jenn snaps her fingers, "Björn! That's it. Special Agent Björn Henrickson!"
Neil snorts, "Sounds like a fuckin' dork. What's his deal?"
Jenn replies, "Dunno. He was asking some pretty...weird questions, actually."
Neil grimaces as he drinks his green gloop, "Huh. Interesting. Weird, how?"
Jenn deeply sighs, "Heh. Where do I even begin..."
The rest of the cops' afternoon is spent discussing various things, including the McMahon mansion fire and other matters.
Fast forward a few hours...
The sun is beginning to set. The sky is streaked with red and orange. It's going to be dark soon. Which means that it's time for the Kindred of Plaintry to rise from their day-long slumber.
Sunset is a bit earlier than usual today.
Arman wakes up to the sound of Rolf knocking on his door. He yawns and stretches. His eyes are still half-closed. He groggily gets up and opens the door.
Rolf bows his head, "Master. It is already 6:25 PM."
Arman slowly nods, "Ah, yes. Tonight is going to be quite the lovely night. I've got my date with Ginny at 8 PM."
Rolf clears his throat, "Yes, Master. And what about the...other matter?"
Arman cracks a smile, "Ah, that. It'll be just like last time, Rolf. I trust you will be able to handle it?"
Rolf nods, "Ja. Rolf is reliable and will not fail you."
Arman chuckles, "Excellent. Now, if you'll excuse me, I must get ready for tonight. I want to look quite...nice and presentable for Ginny."
Rolf bows his head, "Of course, master. Rolf will see to it that everything is prepared for tonight."
Arman smiles, "Yes. Make sure the ladies don't give any trouble tonight. And thank you, Rolf. You truly are the best a man like me could ever ask for."
Rolf weakly smiles, "Danke, mein meister (DE: Thank you, my master). Rolf appreciates your kind words."
Arman turns around and walks back into his room. He closes the door and prepares to get cleaned up and dressed for tonight's date.
He hopes it goes well. Truth be told, he has come to admire his co-conspirator in a way that goes beyond mere professional respect.
Could it perhaps be love?
Meanwhile, Ginny is already awake. She's wearing an embellished black sequin dress with a round neckline. The sleeves are long and the length is above the knees.
Ginny grabs a razor blade from her bathroom and quickly runs it over her legs, taking multiple bits of leg hair off. She carefully shaves them. The hair slowly falls onto the ground.
After a few minutes of doing the same to her arms, Ginny hears a knock at her door. She turns her head towards it.
She looks through the peephole before opening the door. She sees Beth and Bella- the twins who took part in the attack on the McMahon mansion- standing there.
She chuckles to herself and opens the door, "Took you 2 long enough."
Beth snaps back, "I just woke up, Ginny. Sheesh."
Bella shakes her head and holds up a makeup kit, "Got what you asked for. We'll have you looking like the belle of the ball in no time, Ginny." She grins.
Ginny looks at her with suspicion. She grabs the makeup kit and inspects it, "Heh. Yeah, sure, doll me up."
Ginny proceeds to sit down on a nearby chair.
Bella is quite well dressed. She's wearing a pristine white shirt and a striped pencil skirt. Her short, cropped blonde hair looks like it's been straightened recently. Her skin remains pale. Her pink lipstick looks perfect.
Beth, on the other hand, wears torn black jeans and a t-shirt with a few expletives written on it. She yawns. Her hair looks unkempt and slightly frizzy.
Bella commands her twin sister, "Grab a chair and help me, will you?" She gestures to her sister to get it done.
Beth sighs and does as she's told. She grabs a chair and sits to Ginny's left. Bella sits to Ginny's right and readies a few makeup brushes and various tubes of color. She picks up some concealer first.
She dabs it on the corners of Ginny's eyes. She lightly strokes it onto Ginny's cheeks as well.
Gotta get rid of that deathly paleness characteristic of all Kindred! Gotta get her to look more...alive!
Beth absentmindedly rifles through the makeup kit, "What's the occasion?" Her tone is somewhat inquisitive, yet still quite nonchalant. She seems bored, more than anything.
Ginny smirks, "A date with the Ventrue. Arman."
Bella scoffs, "That same guy who had...doubts about what we did to the McMahons. Bah. Is that the best you can do, Ginny? Heh. What a disappointment." She says that while putting blush on Ginny's face.
Beth gives her sister a look before asking, "Do you...like him?"
Ginny shrugs, "I honestly dunno, Beth. He sounds like a man with a plan, you know? He seems OK. Plus, it beats spending the night alone, y'know. Ugh." Her face scrunches up a bit.
Bella exhales, "OK, Ginny. That sounds nice and all. But, I'm gonna need you to pick an eye shadow palette and stick to it. There's a few I like over here." She gestures towards the palette in question.
It contains shades ranging from pink to red to orange to yellow. Ginny's attention is, however, drawn to the smokier gray and black eyeshadows.
Beth smiles, "Ah, keeping it simple, huh?" She giggles to herself.
Bella grabs some eye shadow and applies it to Ginny's eyes, "This one's gonna look real good on you." Her tone is casual yet reassuring.
Beth grabs the eyeliner and leans in closer, "Can't wait to see his reaction when he sees you tonight." Her tone is rather flirtatious.
Bella says, "His jaw better hang open or else I'll pull it open." She chuckles as she watches Beth apply the eyeliner.
Beth's hand is as steady as can be. She says, "Just...a little more. And done!" She pulls her hand back and leans back into her seat, a satisfied grin on her face.
Bella holds out a bunch of lipsticks for Ginny to choose from, "Whatcha gonna wear? Pick wisely." Her tone is a little smug.
Ginny looks over her options. There's red, purple, and pink to choose from. Ginny eventually picks the red. It's red matte lipstick. It has a subtle, yet noticeable scent.
Cherry, perhaps?
Bella applies the lipstick and Ginny presses her lips together a few times to help spread the lipstick evenly. Bella leans back and smiles.
Beth nods in approval as well.
Ginny's eyes dart between the 2, "So, how'd I look, huh? Like a fuckin' clown or something? C'mon, spit it out, I don't have all night! The man is expecting me at 8 PM." She sounds a bit irritated.
Bella places her hands on Ginny's shoulders and says, "You look great, Ginny."
Beth shrugs, "Would've gone for the black lipstick, but eh, you look good for a date. I guess."
Bella frowns at her twin sister and then says, "OK, Ginny, we're all done here."
She helps Ginny out of the chair and straightens out Ginny's dress. She adds, "What now?"
Ginny replies, "I gotta go and speak to Father Jones. He's been avoiding me for the past few nights. Ugh. So damn frustrating! Why can't Simon just go and talk some sense into him?!" She furiously stomps her foot on the ground.
Bella and Beth exchange glances before turning to look at Ginny again.
Ginny adds, "We'll stop by the church on the way. The sooner I'm done with this, the sooner we can focus on the bigger picture, y'know." Her tone is still a bit angry.
Beth asks, "What about...meals? Shouldn't we feed before--"
Ginny holds her hand up and smiles, "Nah. Arman's got all of that covered, but you 2 better grab a bite." She waves her hand around in the air as she says that.
Beth's expression turns serious as she asks, "Oh. And you trust this Ventrue to cover your meal for tonight??" Her voice sounds skeptical.
Ginny rolls her eyes, "Heh, relax. Besides, his Blood Dolls taste...pretty nice." Her voice is low and seductive.
Bella sighs, "He's got some Blood Dolls, huh? Figures. Rich boy Ventrue, he's got it made in the shade. No wonder he didn't wanna get his hands dirty that night." She scoffs and shakes her head.
Beth crosses her arms and looks around Ginny's Haven, "Do you...like this place?" Her tone is non-judgmental, but still curious.
Ginny frowns, "Huh? What's not to like about this place? I got it for free--"
Bella interjects, "Yeah after you and Simon drained the owners and left their corpses out on the porch." She grins as she says that.
Bella shrugs and then adds, "We going or what?"
Beth scratches her neck and groans loudly, "Ugh, yeah, I'm starving."
Ginny cracks a smile, "We'll grab someone along the way."
Ginny puts on her shoes. Bella suggests the black high heels, but Beth suggests the silver pumps instead. Beth argues that the black high heels make the dress look "too formal." Ginny agrees and settles for the silver pumps.
Eventually, the trio reach the church where Father Jones is a priest at. It's the only Catholic church in the town of Plaintry. It's located on the western side of town, near a cemetery.
It's also been a pretty useful hub to transport goods and documents (of the sensitive variety) from Domain to Domain, with Father Jones acting as a courier of sorts.
In this way, it has acted as an effective conduit of information exclusively for Clan Lasombra use.
But lately, Father Jones has been getting what one might call "cold feet" when it comes to this...arrangement. He's probably having second thoughts, too.
And recent events in the town have seen a large influx of FBI agents (likely aligned in some way or the other to the Second Inquisition) pouring into the church, asking questions and such.
Anyway, Beth and Bella wipe a bit of blood from the corners of their lips with their fingers. Ginny heads to the church. She stands in front of it and takes a long, hard look at it.
The church is a beautiful structure made of dark gray stones. It has a sloped roof and a bell tower with a cross at the top. The stained-glass windows are beautifully crafted and depict various religious figures.
There is a signboard at the entrance that reads "Saint Peter's Church. Open To Any And All Seeking God's Light."
The parking lot is empty except for one dingy-looking sedan parked nearby. The church van is at the garage, undergoing much-needed repairs.
Ginny sharply exhales, mutters something indeterminable, and pushes the large wooden doors open.
Beth and Bella wait outside. Ginny looks back at them and sternly says, "Make sure no one disturbs us, understood?"
The twins nod and reply, "Of course." Ginny turns around and steps into the church. The doors slowly close behind her with a loud creaking noise. She looks around at the interior of the church.
The interior of the church is well lit by candles. There are rows of pews on either side of the aisle. At the end of the aisle is the altar. It has a huge cross hanging above it.
Father Jones is kneeling in front of the altar, hands pressed together in prayer. He mutters something before standing up and turning around to see who's entered. His expression changes from one of peace to one of shock.
Father Jones is in his 60s. Thin and of medium height. Balding with a bit of white hair around the sides of his head. He wears a simple black cassock and a white collar. He looks at Ginny with fear in his eyes.
He takes off his rimless glasses and stammers, "Oh, G--Ginny. It's you."
Ginny smirks and stretches out her hands to either side of her, "The one and only. Don't act so surprised, Father." Her tone is rather sarcastic.
Father Jones gulps and takes a step back, "Look, Ginny. I know what this is about, but things have changed." His voice is shaky.
Ginny's face contorts into a scowl, "Yeah, yeah, I know. Strange people coming in and asking all sortsa questions. FBI crawling all over the place. Boo-hoo."
Father Jones sighs and nods, "Yes. It's just too dangerous for me right now. I need time to think and--" He tries to walk past her, but she grabs hold of his arm.
He looks at her and says, "I just want to take a seat, Virginia. Please. I'm not going to try and run. I promise." He gently pulls his arm back.
Ginny lets go. She sighs and gestures towards one of the pews. He walks towards it and sits down.
She joins him and asks, "So, what's your plan, Father?"
Father Jones leans back into the pews and shakes his head, "I don't know. It would seem that your people down south are already planning to move their operations elsewhere." His voice sounds defeated.
Ginny scoffs, "Well, that's a damn shame, isn't it? And here I thought we had a deal." She narrows her eyes at him.
Father Jones looks back at her and says, "You can't expect me to continue this when the Federal Bureau of Investigation is swarming all over this town. What happened, anyway? The news says it was an...accident?"
Ginny knows what exactly happened to the McMahons (she took part in it!). However, she shrugs and says, "Dunno."
Father Jones scratches his palm, "The McMahons were certainly...unpleasant individuals. But they didn't deserve to die. Not like that." His voice trails off as he looks at the ground.
Ginny snorts, "Yeah, yeah, whatever. I'm not here about them, Father Jones."
"Yes, yes, I know that. But your packages have been getting quite large and heavy lately. Whatever it is you're shipping, it's--" He stops himself and shakes his head.
Ginny says, "It's part of our...long-standing agreement, Father Jones."
He reminds her, "An agreement made before either of us were even born, Miss Bane. That's a long time." He rubs his forehead with his fingers.
Ginny sneers, "You were fine with it before. Why the sudden change now?"
Father Jones sighs, "It's not just me. Other parishes keep asking me about the contents of your packages and I can't keep waving them off. They're getting suspicious." His tone is firm and resolute.
Ginny raises an eyebrow, "And?" She knows that Father Jones is just a pawn in this game.
"AND, I also have a responsibility to my flock." He pauses and then adds, "I--I really don't know what else to say, Virginia."
Ginny shakes her head from side to side and ominously says, "Simon's not gonna like this one bit. You know that, right?" She teasingly clicks her tongue as she says that.
Father Jones gulps and looks down at his hands, "T--Then I'll speak to him myself. He has to understand that this is not as feasible as it once was." His voice is still shaky.
Ginny smirks, "Good luck with that. Heh. Simon's an Elder and 'no' isn't a word he's used to hearing." She playfully taps him on the arm.
Father Jones frowns, "I hope he will see the wisdom in adjusting our...arrangement. Otherwise, it may come crashing down."
Ginny chuckles, "You don't wanna tick him off, Father."
Father Jones presses his lips into a tight line and says nothing.
He then looks at her and asks, "You look quite...nice. Going somewhere special?"
Ginny smiles, "Yeah. A date."
"Ah. I assume he's...like you?"
Ginny hesitates for a moment before replying, "Yeah. He's like me. A vampire."
Father Jones nods, "Well, that sounds...lovely, Virginia."
Ginny chimes in, "Y'know, for what it's worth, I kinda enjoyed our discussions, Father Jones." She looks him straight in the eye as she says that.
Father Jones blinks a few times, "Yes, me too. They were quite...riveting. And you always had such interesting questions and thoughts."
Ginny wistfully says, "Heh. We should probably continue them at some point, y'know."
Father Jones nods, "Perhaps we could. Another evening, maybe?"
Ginny sighs, "Anyway, what do I tell Simon about our little arrangement here?"
Father Jones adjusts his collar and shuffles in his seat a bit, "Tell him that I'll be able to move small, and I mean, VERY SMALL packages for now." His voice is somewhat hopeful, yet apprehensive.
Ginny chuckles, "Heh, not what I was hoping to hear tonight but alright, I'll pass on the message."
Father Jones adds, "And tell him that I'm willing to work out new arrangements as well. If he's open to it, of course."
Ginny raises an eyebrow, "Oh? Such as?"
Father Jones vaguely responds, "Let me think on that." He looks away from her and towards the altar.
Ginny looks up at the ceiling, "Well, I guess that's good enough for me. Simon won't be happy about this, but eh, what else is new?" She playfully rolls her eyes.
Father Jones looks at her and asks, "I haven't seen Jacob lately. Is he doing OK? During his last confession, he seemed very disturbed. He stormed out afterwards..."
Ginny snorts, "Huh? Him? Nah, he's doin' all right." She dismissively waves her hand and chuckles.
Father Jones adds, "I don't know if it's something I said or did, but tell him that I'm here for him. Any time of the night. He doesn't have to come to the church if he doesn't want to."
Ginny smirks, "Sure, sure, I'll pass on the message, Father J." She winks at him as she stands up.
Father Jones stands up and extends his hand to her, "Thank you, Virginia. I hope you enjoy your evening with your...date." He smiles warmly at her.
She shakes his hand and says, "Heh. I'll be fine. I'm sure Arman knows how to treat a lady."
Father Jones weakly nods as his hands shake a bit, "Well, God bless you, Miss Bane. I hope that-- I hope that--"
Father Jones clutches his chest and gasps for air.
Ginny's expression changes to one of shock, "Oh my god. Are you OK?" She reaches out to steady him, but he falls to the ground and gasps for air.
She kneels beside him and asks, "Father, what's wrong?! Can you hear me?!" Her tone is frantic.
Father Jones closes his eyes and clutches his chest, wheezing. He frantically taps on the ground with his hand.
He manages to say, "P--Pills. Side po--cket..." His voice is barely audible.
Ginny looks around and frantically searches his pockets. She pulls out a small bottle of pills and holds it up to her face.
Just then, in walks Simon, the Elder Lasombra.
He strides towards the duo. Beth and Bella are outside arguing with each other.
Ginny looks up at him and says, "He's having a heart attack. Get help!" She sounds desperate.
Simon leans forward and grabs the bottle of pills from Ginny's hand. He holds it close to his chest as a smirk forms on his face. Ginny glares at him. His eyes turn black as dark vapors emanate from his mouth.
The Elder Lasombra raises his chin, slightly, as he clutches the bottle of pills. Father Jones stretches out his hand, begging for the pills. His breathing slows down as his eyes roll back into his head.
Ginny says, "Damnit, Simon! Gimme the fucking pills! This is Father Jones we're talking about! I need those, NOW!" Her tone is stern and authoritative.
Simon chuckles, "Ah, Ginny. No."
She bares her fangs and claws but freezes in place. She knows better than to attack an Elder like Simon.
She gulps and holds on to Father Jones's hand, "Come on, Father. Hang in there, you'll be fine. J--Just hang in there." Her voice is full of desperation. Father Jones's hand slowly slips out of her grasp.
He breathes his last and his body goes limp. His hand falls to the floor. Ginny's jaw drops open. Her eyes widen. Simon clicks his tongue.
She looks up at him and asks, "Wh--why, Simon? WHY!?"
Simon, his voice as smooth as ever, replies, "It's time we find an...alternative. And I have the perfect replacement." He smiles widely as he looks at Ginny. His eyes are a back to regular blue.
A few tears of blood flow from her eyes and onto the floor as she stares at Father Jones's corpse. Her jaw still hangs open.
Ginny stammers, "He--he visited Doctor Willie's private practice last week. He was gonna undergo heart surgery in a few days..." Her voice is trembling.
Simon softly chuckles, "Attaching yourself to Kine like that is a weakness, Ginny."
He gets on one knee and looks at her. His face is expressionless. His voice is calm and soothing. He tells her, "Do you remember when your Sire abandoned you? When he left you for the sun and the stakes to come?"
Ginny slowly nods, tears of blood streaming down her cheeks.
Simon continues, "But I took you in. I taught you EVERYTHING you needed to survive in Kindred Society. I even gave you quite the...head start."
Simon pats her head and adds, "You've done well for yourself, Ginny. But this?" He gestures to Father Jones's corpse, "This is...a bump in the road, nothing more."
Ginny sniffs, "Wh--what now? H--how are we gonna--?" She's struggling to form a complete sentence. Her voice is hoarser than usual.
Simon snaps his fingers and beckons the twin sisters to come in. They rush to the scene. Their eyes widen when they see the body.
Beth is the first to break the silence. She whispers, "Whoa...what happened?"
Bella scoffs, "He kicked the bucket, heh. Guess you were too late, eh Ginny?" She smirks and playfully nudges Ginny's arm.
Ginny shoots Bella a nasty look.
Simon clears his throat, "Enough. Bethany and I will search the Father's quarters. We have to make sure that there's nothing here that can lead back to us."
Bella rolls her eyes, "And what about the body?"
Simon replies, "Leave it. He died of natural causes--" He holds up the pill bottle and continues, "--Father Jones...simply forgot his pills." He mockingly smiles.
Ginny asks, "So, that's it? Just...leave him here and pretend like nothing happened?"
Simon studies Ginny for a few seconds, "What made this particular...mortal so special to you, hmm? What did he mean to you?" His tone is somewhat mocking.
Ginny glares at him and doesn't answer.
Simon shrugs, "Suit yourself. But, as I said before, I'm looking into a much more...viable alternative. So, you shouldn't get too attached, Ginny."
Simon continues, "Besides, you have a date tonight. Go, enjoy yourself. Bethany I will take care of everything here."
The twins exchange glances.
Bella says, "Yeah, I'll come with to the uh--"
Ginny, still shaken, says, "The Gastronova, Belladonna. The Gastronova."
Bella grimaces, "That place? Ugh. Your boyfriend's got really expensive taste, huh? Heh."
Ginny doesn't reply, she shuts Father Jones's eyes and then stands up. She turns and leaves the church. Bella follows suit.
Simon sighs and looks around the church. Beth stands awkwardly close to him, looking around as well.
Simon asks, "Well, where should we start?" He doesn't seem very concerned.
Beth shrugs and says, "Dunno. Not much of a churchgoer, y'know."
Simon eyes Beth from head to toe, "Hmm, I can tell."
Ginny walks out of the church and towards her car. She gets in the driver's seat and slams the door. She grips the steering wheel tightly. She screams in agony and pounds her fists on the dashboard, almost breaking it.
Tears of blood stream down her cheeks. Her screams are guttural and raw.
Bella stands right outside the car, just watching.
Bella gets in the backseat and asks, "So you...uh, know where this place is?"
Ginny shakes her head.
Bella says, "I do. Um..." She awkwardly clears her throat and looks out the window.
Ginny simply says, "Let's go. We're already running late." She wipes her eyes and starts the car. She pulls out of the parking lot and speeds off into the night.
Traffic is a bit denser than usual. So, it'll take sometime for Ginny to get to her destination.
Meanwhile...
Arman is in his room. He's pacing around, gripping his satellite phone tightly.
He awaits the call.
He's wearing a sharp black tuxedo with a bowtie and a plain blue shirt. His hair is slicked back. His shoes are freshly polished. 
Arman glances at his golden Fossil watch and looks himself in the mirror. He's ready.
Or as ready as one can be.
Just then, the sat-phone rings.
Arman answers, "Ah, excellent! Now, hand it over to Torvald. Just like last time."
Rolf replies, "Ja."
Torvald gets on the line and says, "Good evening, sir." His tone is polite and professional.
Arman responds, "Yes, indeed. So, have you gone through the file that my...assistant gave you?" His voice is full of anticipation.
Torvald responds, "Yes. Yes. This...seems quite larger than a small garage, no?"
Arman grimly says, "I assure you, Mr. Torvald, everyone in that Amazon Warehouse is a part of this. And all of them will have to be removed."
Torvald sighs, "It would appear so. However, it seems rather..."
Torvald struggles to find the right word to say, "...counter-intuitive. Back in Japan, the vampires were quite cunning and discreet. This is anything but."
Arman frowns, "We are not in Japan, Torvald."
"Hmm, even then, this is quite a lot..."
Arman sighs, "There's 9 of you, right?"
Torvald answers, "Yes, there is 9 of us. But--"
"And you're all skilled, correct?"
"Oh, yes. I think we've already proven that at the garage."
"Good. Then you can handle the warehouse."
Torvald takes a deep breath and asks, "Are you certain that...EVERYONE in that warehouse is a vampire?"
Arman, getting a bit annoyed, replies, "Are you doubting me, Mr. Torvald? You've seen what I can do. You've seen the evidence I've gathered. Now, you'll just have to trust me."
Torvald sighs, "I suppose I will have to." He doesn't too keen when saying that, however.
Arman continues, "Everything's in the file. Go over it with your...friends. After all, your kind is known for its...ferocity and strength. Don't let me down."
Torvald asks, "Will we be able to contact you after this? If things don't go as planned, that is."
A sly smile forms across Arman's face, "After this, I will have your...reward ready."
"And maybe we will finally get to meet you in person?"
"Hmph. Maybe. Don't get your hopes up, I'm a very busy man and I prefer to work from a distance."
Torvald dryly says, "Hmm. Of course, sir."
Arman nods, "Very good. Oh, and I expect...no survivors. No matter how much they plead or beg."
Torvald hesitates before replying, "U--Understood, sir. We are here to cleanse this town of all that is vile and corrupt."
Arman raises an eyebrow, "Then, you will not be disappointed by what you find in that ghastly warehouse. Now, do you have any other questions?"
"No, I think we'll be able to handle it."
"Hmm. Excellent. Please hand the phone back to my assistant. We will speak again once the task is completed."
"Yes. Have a good night, sir."
"Hmph. Yes, you too."
Rolf places the phone against his ear, "Ja. OK. I return. Ja. OK."
Eventually, Rolf makes his way back to his master's Haven.
Arman is standing in the living room, simply admiring his large sitting room. He smugly nods to himself in approval and adjusts his bowtie.
Just then, he hears someone at the door. It's Rolf.
Arman's Ghoul (and bodyguard) is wearing an orange turtleneck with the collar folded down. He's wearing a brown corduroy jacket, corduroy pants and brown wing tip formal shoes.
His hair is still long and he refuses to tie it up or get it cut. He's also wearing a small diamond earring in his left ear.
The Ghoul puts his rimmed sunglasses on his forehead. Arman stares at his Ghoul for a few seconds and then nods, satisfied. He checks his watch again.
He frowns and asks, "Hmm, all went well, then? They...didn't sniff you our or anything?"
Rolf replies, "No, master. Rolf was very discreet."
"Hmm. Good. Another thing, Rolf."
"Ja?"
"You'll have to return to fetch our...meals for tonight. I cannot be seen travelling in a car full of young women. I'm sure you understand why."
Rolf nods. He turns around and exits. He goes to get the car ready.
In about 15-20 minutes, Arman and Rolf arrive at their destination- The Gastronova restaurant.
Arman elegantly steps out of the car and is greeted by Leonard.
Leonard stretches out his hands, "Ah! Arman! Restaurant's all yours for tonight. My best waiters have been assigned for you and your date's table." He glances at the entrance.
Ginny's still not here.
Arman leans in closer to Lenny and asks, "And I assume these waiters of yours are capable of...keeping their mouths shut."
Lenny lets out a hearty chuckle, "Haha! We don't hire people like Maya here, Arman. The Gastronova's got standards and a certain...reputation to maintain." He sounds a bit snooty when he says that.
Leonard's wearing a white blazer with a patterned bowtie. His shirt is off-white. He also has a watch that's easily worth more than his employees' yearly salaries.
It's a Patek Philippe, because of course it is.
One thing is certain- the Ventrue in this town got money. A whole lot of it.
Lenny points towards the entrance, "Now, I'm sure your lovely date will be here any moment now. Let's head on in and wait for her." He smiles and nods towards Rolf.
Rolf waves back as he puts the car into reverse. He now has to go back and get the meals. A few of Arman's Blood Dolls should suffice for 2 Kindred Neonates on a date.
Rolf also reminds himself to get body bags and plastic sheets. Y'know, just in case one (or both) of them get carried away when feeding.
Besides, it would be a shame to leave such a mess behind at the restaurant. Lenny would NOT like that.
Rolf looks at himself in the mirror. His expression turns sour for a moment. In a way, Rolf has become attached to Arman's Blood Dolls.
Not in a creepy way, of course.
A part of him still cares for them. He actually does their hair or sings to them (in German) when they're too tired or dazed to know what the fuck is going on.
Of course, the singing's terrible and Rolf is no hairstylist. He's not particularly skilled when it comes to makeup, either. But hey, it's the thought that counts, right?
Either way, Arman has high expectations for his retainer.
Arman is escorted to the VIP section which is on the first floor.
The VIP section of The Gastronova is very elegant and classy. There are private rooms for diners who want a little more...privacy.
Or room to get all frisky.
The lighting is dim and warm, making it an intimate and romantic place to eat. The tables are covered with silky white tablecloths.
The chairs are comfortable and soft to sit on for extended periods of time (great for business negotiations and such).
The entire section is empty. Just as expected.
Lenny does a wide, sweeping gesture, "Whole place is yours, Arman. Just remember what I told you yesterday night, alright?"
Arman nods, "Of course, Leonard."
Lenny adds, "No feeding on the staff, though."
Arman chuckles, "Don't worry, my good man. We will behave ourselves. Also, I assume you don't have a policy against...bringing your own food?"
Lenny smiles, "I'll make an exception. Heh."
Arman gets settled into a large, comfortable booth and waits for his date to arrive. He glances at his watch again.
"Where is she?!" he asks himself as he checks his phone for any missed messages or calls.
He sighs, "I hope she hasn't stood me up or had any second thoughts..." He mutters something to himself and shakes his head.
After about 5 minutes (which feel more like 15), Arman sees Ginny's car pull up in front of the restaurant.
He breathes a sigh of relief rubs his forehead.
Ginny and Bella step out of the car. Bella adjusts her clothes and smoothens her hair.
Ginny looks up at the restaurant and strides in. She's a bit hunched over and looks nervous. She blinks her eyes and sniffs.
Bella stands outside, looking around the place.
Ginny puts her car keys in her golden purse and tells Bella, "Night's for me and Arman. You're gonna have to...find something else to do." Her tone is firm and cold.
Bella rolls her eyes and says, "Hmph. Sure. You owe me, by the way."
Ginny asks, "Owe you what?"
Bella raises an eyebrow. She puts her hands on her hips and looks at Ginny expectantly.
Ginny scoffs, "Grab a cab or something. I'm not your goddamn chauffeur, Bella."
Bella shoots back, "Well, how am I supposed to?! I don't have a cellphone or--"
Ginny holds her hand up, "Not my problem, Bella. Not. My. Problem. Now, if you'll excuse me, I got a date with a cute Ventrue and I don't wanna be late."
Ginny mockingly blows a kiss and winks, "Ciao."
Bella grunts and throws her hands up in the air, "Fine. Fuck you too, Ginny." Bella walks the other direction.
Ginny doesn't hear what Bella said, nor does she care.
The doors open as Lenny welcomes Ginny, "Hope the place was easy to find."
Ginny jokingly says, "Yeah, all I had to do was follow the giant piles of money this place sucks up."
Lenny chuckles, "Heh, yeah. We have to keep the...undesirables away, don't we? Now, follow me, I'll take you to your table." He glances at his fancy watch and smiles.
Arman adjusts his hair one last time as Ginny and Lenny approach him. The former is trying her best to maintain her composure and look normal.
Lenny claps his hands together and says, "Ah! Here we are. Arman, your date."
Arman gets up and lightly hugs Ginny. He also bows down slightly and gives Ginny a kiss on her hand. He does all this with the most suave and charismatic aura imaginable.
Arman smiles warmly and says, "You look...stunning, my dear. Absolutely stunning." He pauses to admire her impeccable makeup and choice of attire.
Ginny bites her lip and says, "Oh, you charmer." She playfully places her hand on Arman's chest.
Ginny asks, "Any place more...private. Window seating ain't my thing." She smirks and gives Arman a suggestive look.
Lenny looks around and suggests, "How about one of our VIP rooms?"
Ginny smiles, "Sounds great! Let's go." She grabs Arman by the arm and pulls him along.
Lenny chuckles to himself, "A Ventrue and a Lasombra on a date, heh. What'll the others think?" He shakes his head and walks back to his office.
The VIP rooms are cozy. The lighting is apparently adjustable (color, intensity, and all that), but it flickers a bit as Ginny and Arman enter the room.
There's also a small table with a vase of fresh flowers in the center.
Ginny and Arman sit on the comfy couch and smile at each other.
Ginny playfully says, "So, this is a pretty nice place, huh?" She looks around the room.
Arman smiles, "It is. The decor is simply magnificent."
Ginny says, "Heh, you Ventrue got great taste in all this kinda stuff, huh?"
Arman reminds her, "We are not also known as 'The Clan of Kings' for nothing, my dear." He grins as he says that.
Ginny, in turn, reminds him, "Just remember the Shadows behind the throne, big guy."
"Always, my dear. Always."
Arman places his head against the back of the couch and exhales.
Ginny asks, "So...what do we do now?"
Arman shrugs, "Hmm, I suppose we wait until our...food arrives."
Ginny smirks, "Ah, so Rolfy boy is bringing your Blood Dolls over, huh?"
Arman responds, "Yes, I couldn't be seen travelling with them. People in this town tend to...talk. Sometimes, a bit too much."
Ginny rolls her eyes, "Hmph. Tell me about it. So, what do you wanna do now?"
Arman looks into Ginny's eyes, "We should get to know each other more."
Ginny licks her lips, "Ah."
Arman suggests, "How about a quid pro quo? We take turns asking each other questions."
Ginny slowly nods, "Yeah. Sounds like fun."
Arman holds his hand out, "Well then, shall we start?"
He offers to go first, "Tell me about your..." he thinks for a few moments, "...Sire. Yes, tell me more about the person who Embraced you."
Ginny's expression turns sour, "Ugh. I ever see him again, I'm gonna fuckin' stake him, tear his arms off, and leave the rest of him for the sun. Why the fuck would you wanna know about him?"
Arman raises his eyebrows a bit, "Wow, you certainly...dislike him, Ginny. Anyway, I'm merely curious about the person who Sired someone as beautiful...and charming as you."
Ginny sighs, "His name was Abernathy. S--Septimus Abernathy. Southern guy. Blonde. Fat. Ugly mustache." Her voice cracks a bit.
Arman places his hand on Ginny's shoulder, "Is everything fine?"
She continues, "It was back in the 80s. I was a car mechanic in New York City--"
Arman can't hesitate laughing, "YOU? A car mechanic? That's...unexpected, to say the least. My apologies, continue."
Ginny smirks, "Yeah, yeah, drink it up. I was a car mechanic in fuckin' NYC. Long story short, he and the other Lasombra made my life a living hell before Embracing me."
Ginny lowers her head, "And, the rest...well, I don't wanna talk about it."
Arman asks, "You're not...willing to say any more, are you?"
Ginny shakes her head, "That's all you're gettin' out of me."
"Hmm. Fair enough. Still, the idea of you in overalls, holding a wrench, with grease all over your face. Heh, I simply cannot picture it." He smiles to himself as he imagines Ginny with dirty overalls.
Ginny glares at him, "Anyway, what's your Sire like, then? They an asshole who abandon you or--"
Arman quickly interrupts, "No, my dear, not at all. MY Sire is nothing like your...Abernathy," he sniffs.
"Brayden was and is a fantastic and brilliant man. An prominent Elder of Clan Ventrue. While I was still a lowly employee at HAL in the 90s, he...noticed me."
Ginny narrows her eyes, "HAL? What's that?"
"Hindustan Aeronautics Limited, my dear."
"Hindustan? Where's that?"
Arman gently sighs, "I was born and raised in India. North India, in particular."
Ginny simply says, "Ah. I always thought you were from Vermont or something."
"Vermont?! What in god's name would give you such an idea?"
Arman dismissively waves his hand and continues, "Anyway, I was in that job for the better part of 2 decades. For its time, the salary was decent enough." He shrugs.
"Then one day, I decide to go and grab a drink at a bar that had just opened up right opposite the office building. The stress was getting to me." He frowns as he says that.
Ginny playfully nods, "Oh yeah? What happened?" She leans closer. Her eyes are locked on his face.
Arman winces a bit, "The usual. Office politics, pointless meetings, mandatory overtime," he laughs dryly.
Arman goes on, "It was pretty late in the evening and in walks this young man with a sharp American accent. Of course, back then, my accent was...less than stellar." He shrugs and smirks.
Ginny simply nods.
He continues, "So, I notice him. And he notices me. He pulls up a seat and we get to talking. About life, business, real estate, the stock market, women, you know?" He gestures to Ginny for permission to continue.
Ginny nods.
"I find myself opening up to this strange American man and, before I know it, we're both pretty well acquainted with one another."
Arman takes a break from from speaking and steeples his fingers together.
There is a certain glint in Ginny's eye. A part of her wishes her relationship with her Sire wasn't so...awful (to put it mildly!).
But she quickly pushes that thought to the back of her mind. She knows better than to dwell on those kinds of feelings.
Still, there's one thing she can't quite put to the back of her mind just yet- the passing (one could perhaps say murder) of Father Jones. Simon's motives for withholding the pills are unclear.
As are the motives of most Kindred Elders.
Ginny lets out a half-hearted smile and clutches her arm. She looks to the side. There's a long pause. She's lost in her thoughts. She snaps back to reality when Arman holds his hand out again.
He looks at his date with concern, "Is everything...alright, my dear. You seem...distressed." He asks himself what the cause could be.
Ginny sighs, "You uh...got a Touchstone, Arman?"
Arman shakes his head, "I can't say I've ever had great need for one. Why?"
Ginny hesitates and almost stammers, "Well, uh...I had one."
Arman leans closer and asks, "'Had one'? What happened to...them?"
Ginny nervously bites her lip, "He...died. T--This evening, actually," her voice cracks.
Arman places his cold hand on Ginny's (equally) cold hand, "I--I'm so sorry, my dear. I truly am. What happened?"
Ginny wants to tell him but she (for whatever reason) decides against it, so she vaguely says, "Heart attack." She sniffles and looks away from him.
Arman strokes Ginny's hand, "I am sorry, Ginny. I--If you'd like, we can put off this date."
Ginny quickly wipes her eyes and shakes her head, "No, Arman. I wanna be here. I wanna enjoy myself. And you..."
She moves closer to him and places her hand on his chest, "You make me feel things, Arman. Feel things I...haven't felt in a while."
Arman blushes a bit, "Well, my dear Ginny. I...feel the same way about you." He gulps and tries to sound as suave as possible.
She gives him a quick peck on the cheek, staining it with just a bit of lipstick.
She smiles and says, "The night's still young. So, any ETA on our meals?"
Arman replies, "Well, traffic was denser than usual. It reminds me of--"
Ginny coyly interjects, "The night we made our move against the McMahons."
Arman fakes a smile, "Yes, that..." A hint of regret is detectable in his tone.
"The traffic..." He grimly chuckles as he tries to find the words to say.
Ginny folds her arms, "We did what we had to do to secure our position. Isn't it...the long game, Arman?"
"Yes, yes, it certainly is. Yet, I still have mixed feelings regarding the McMahons even after seeing what they did to their own son." He frowns as he remembers what they did to Jon.
Ginny shrugs and asks, "Whatever. And now we've got the next part of our plan. So, your furry friends gonna rip us some Thin-Bloods soon?" She winks at him.
Arman coldly responds, "There will be blood, my dear."
He pulls out his phone and spends a few moments tapping and scrolling around.
Arman then places the phone on the table and stares at Ginny, "See for yourself."
Ginny doesn't lean in too close, "Surveillance cam footage? Wow, real exciting, real freakin' exciting."
Arman taps his phone again and the footage changes to another cam, "Notice...anyone familiar?"
Ginny studies this new bit of live footage and sees Dylan working, "Heh. I see fuckin' Dylan. What a loser."
Arman says, "Yes. This footage is live. A friend of mine in the NSA was kind enough to give it to me."
Ginny narrows her eyes and says, "So, when's the live show gonna start?"
Arman raises his hand, "Not tonight, I'm afraid. I just spoke to our Garou 'friends' this evening. These hounds need time to prepare. But the good news is..." he flashes his fangs as he smiles.
He continues, "They will do what needs to be done when the time is right."
Ginny furrows her brows, "Huh. Why'd you have to get those furries involved in the first place?"
Arman reassures her, "I assure you my dear, after they've done all the heavy lifting, the cleanup will be rather simple."
Ginny sighs, "Y'know, for some reason, I don't doubt that. You can get cold feet at times, but you always...do what you gotta do." She chuckles a bit.
Arman graciously accepts her compliment with a slight bow of his head.
Ginny asks, "What do we do after the Thin-Bloods are dusted?"
Arman scratches the back of his neck, "The next...phase of our plan involves you, Ginny."
"Huh. How?"
"You'll need to convince Sheriff Eunice to see things our way. No easy task, all things considered."
Ginny looks away as she brushes her hair to the side. She asks, "Hmph. And how exactly are we gonna 'convince' a Malkavian to see things our way? They see things a million different ways!"
Arman shrugs, "That is your department, Ginny. Try...connecting with her. Woman to woman."
"Hmph. Sure, I guess." Ginny crosses her arms.
"Trust me, my dear, in the end all this WILL be worth it."
Arman adds, "Of course, we have to simultaneously focus on weakening the influence of Prince Lucas. I have a few ideas."
"I dunno how we can do that, though. He might be a Ravnos, but he ain't a total moron."
Arman reminds her, "We already got rid of his Ghoul and right-hand man, so, the next logical step would be to--"
Ginny eagerly interjects, "Destroy him too!"
Arman quickly shakes his head, "No, no, my dear. Well, I mean, yes, maybe, but..." He nervously adjusts his bowtie.
He continues, "Not right now. It'll have to be done at the right time. There's just too much...at play right now. No, this requires more tact and discretion than you Lasombra are often known for." He sternly says that last part.
Ginny shrugs, "Your loss, smarty-pants. We could easily fuck up a buncha Ravnos, no problem."
Arman exhales sharply, "Just try to see things my way, my dear. A--a different way. My plan is...perfectly logical. Trust me."
Ginny sarcastically raises an eyebrow, "Quid pro quo? Last I checked, trust is a 2-way street."
She looks directly into his eyes, "Trust ME or trust nobody."
Arman mutters something to himself. He puts on a slight smirk, "We'll just have to work together to ensure that this plan of OURS succeeds. There's a lot riding on it, isn't there?"
Arman does a broad, sweeping gesture, "It's not just our futures. It's for the future of this town and the rest of the Kindred in it. Or, the worthy ones, that is."
Ginny playfully bites her lip, "Speaking of futures, you found anyone to Embrace yet? Hmm?"
Arman lowers his voice a bit, "I was about to ask you the same thing. Heh, I guess great minds do think alike, after all." He chuckles.
Ginny chuckles along.
Arman ponders for sometime before replying, "I've actually been thinking about Bernice for a while."
Ginny scoffs, "She's toast, Arman. After you-know-who opened her mouth while the other one opened her legs." She laughs at that last part.
"That reminds me, have your friends in the legal profession made contact with Bernice's parents yet?"
Ginny shrugs, "Don't see the point after what happened with her campaign and all."
Arman winces a bit, "True, but the plan is...already in motion. Please, make sure your people get to her parents first."
Ginny sighs, "O-kay, sure. But only cuz you're asking."
Arman suavely says, "I always ask nicely, my dear."
He then says, "In any case, I'd be interested in Embracing Miss Bernice. She is Clan Ventrue material. I suppose I need to further assess her first. What do you think, Ginny?"
Ginny nods, "Yeah, Bernice seems the Blue-Blood type, y'know. Politicians, heh."
Arman smirks, "Yes, very much so. I believe that we could use some new Ventrue members. Especially in this town. Besides, Bernice's parents have connections to the military-intelligence community."
He raises a finger, as if making a point, "THAT, my dear, is worth its weight in gold."
Ginny remarks, "Always 2 steps ahead, huh?"
The Ventrue holds his head up high, "Always, my dear Ginny. Always."
Arman grabs Ginny's hand and gently strokes it with his thumb. He continues, "How about you, Ginny?"
Ginny looks at Arman's thumb on her hand and says, "Actually, it's something you said at the gala that got me thinking, y'know."
She continues, "Annette...I just uh, gotta find a way to push her, y'know?" Her tone is very serious and her eyes are fixed on Arman. She's dead serious about this. The corner of her mouth twitches a bit.
Arman chuckles, "Then, you're in luck, Ginny. I heard she rammed her car into her former place of work a few days ago. The newspaper says she got mandatory community service for the next few months." He laughs.
Ginny bites her lip, "Is that so? Huh, interesting." She mutters a few words under her breath. She's definitely on to something here.
Ginny asks, "What's she like, Arman?"
Arman scoffs, "I've never met the woman personally, but she does seem...driven. And you Magisters do like people who are driven, hmm?"
Ginny replies, "Yeah, driven to the fuckin' ground." She continues, "She anything like Maya?"
Arman frowns, "Oh, god no. Maya is...too soft. And, from what I've seen, Annette is more...bite than bark." He chuckles.
Ginny grits her teeth, "I still think lettin' the Tremere Embrace Maya was a huge fuckin' mistake, Arman."
Arman gently sighs, "And if we killed her while she still drew breath, we'd incur the fury of her...girlfriend." He shudders, as if thinking of a truly nightmarish idea. He clears his throat.
Ginny retorts, "Ya think we can't take on a buncha Tremere?" She smirks.
Arman coldly remarks, "You underestimate what they are truly capable of, Ginny. I've been with one, so I know a thing or 2 about their Blood Magic. They're tricky and devious. Very much so."
Ginny narrows her eyes, "When you say 'been with one', you mean like a Bl--"
Arman slowly nods, "Yes, Ginny. A Blood Bond. I was the Regent in that...relationship. Obviously."
Ginny interjects, "And that Tremere was your Thrall." She glares at him.
Arman goes on, "She was a very enchanting woman, to say the least."
Ginny mockingly asks, "Then, why'd you break it off, Casanova?"
Arman shuffles uncomfortably, "Actually, SHE broke it off. I don't know how, but she did it. Somehow, she did it." He spits those words out. He seems to be...sore about the whole ordeal.
He continues, "But, she did have some very interesting things to say about her Clan. And even more interesting things to say about Eleanor."
"Like what?"
Arman coyly smiles, "That is for another night, my dear. Now, shall we go back to discussing Miss Annette?"
Ginny snickers, "Sure, yeah, why not."
She adds, "What about gettin' authorization for this hypothetical Embrace?"
Arman calmly shrugs, "We are in a period of transition, Ginny. The current Prince's word won't matter for much longer."
Ginny leans in, "And what about the Tremere? Eleanor's no one to be messed with, Arman. She's an Elder." She narrows her eyes.
Arman confidently asks, "Have you been paying close attention to Eleanor's behavior for the past few months?"
Ginny shakes her head, "Why'd I care?"
The Ventrue goes on, "She's been...forgetting things, repeating herself, and acting...strange."
Ginny gets what Arman is saying and raises an eyebrow, "It's The Beckoning, ain't it? It's taking a toll on her mind."
"Perhaps."
Ginny presses her date, "What about the other Tremere?"
Arman casually waves his hand, "Hmm, let's just say that I'm not worried about them as much. Just Eleanor. And perhaps Maya."
Ginny shrugs, "If they get in our way, we'll just have to...destroy them. All." She says that as if it were completely normal.
Arman presses his lips into a thin line and silently nods.
The Lasombra runs her fingers across her teeth, "I'm getting hungry, Arman. When's Rolf coming with our meals?" The Hunger, that insatiable urge to feed and drink the blood, is slowly taking over her thoughts.
Arman is also feeling it, "He should be here soon, my dear. So, amuse me, Abyss Mystic, how would you go about Embracing someone like Annette?"
He looks into her eyes and asks, "Would it be similar to the circumstances preceding your Embrace? Back at the gala, I remember you mentioned that it was something akin to a hazing ritual."
Ginny vaguely responds, "We got a way of doing that. I learnt that pretty fast after my Embrace. You got any ideas on how to mess with this Annette chick?"
"She's already been quite...messed up--"
Ginny interrupts, "Not enough, pretty boy. Not enough." For a few moments, her eyes change completely black and she hisses at the Ventrue.
Arman seems taken aback by this (only slightly, however).
Arman nods, "Hmm, perhaps you are right." He adjusts his tie and looks Ginny over, noticing her breasts.
He adjusts his tie again and clears his throat, "This dress you're wearing. It's beautiful, Ginny."
Ginny's eyes return to normal and she chuckles, "Hmph. Yeah, thanks. The previous owner's not gonna need it anymore. Heh."
She adds, "It's nice to be able to look like a movie star once in a while."
Arman's tone becomes a bit more serious, "It's a shame that you of all people cannot see how gorgeous you look right now." He looks into her eyes.
Ginny indifferently says, "It's the Lasombra Clan Curse, Arman. Ya learn to live with it."
Arman props himself up and sits closer to Ginny, "Which is why I took the liberty of...convincing a local street artist to do a portrait of us. Tonight. After our...date. He agreed to do it. And, I've already paid him."
"You...'convinced' him, huh?"
"I can be a very persuasive man, Ginny." He winks at her.
Ginny says, "Uh, thanks, I guess. Ever since the Embrace, I haven't had many decent pictures to look at or hold on to."
Arman touches Ginny's face and smiles, "This is truly a special moment for us, Ginny. We can look forward to our future, together. Perhaps, with our potential...Childer by our side. Me and Bernice. You and Annette. The possibilities--"
Ginny sharply exhales, "We're really going through with this, huh? What about--"
Arman leans in and cups her face. His dead eyes meet her (equally) dead eyes. His lips part a bit.
Ginny rushes forward and passionately kisses him. The two stay lip-locked for what seems like an eternity.
Their tongues dance, their fangs are a bit more exposed than usual, but they're not exactly ready to kill and feed.
Yet.
Their fangs and lips remain pressed against each other's as they slowly pull each other closer.
However, this moment of passion is interrupted by Leonard.
The Ventrue restaurant owner raps on the door, "Pardon me..."
Ginny and Arman pull away from each other and stare at Lenny, slightly embarrassed.
Leonard has a bottle...of not-wine in his hand. No, the liquid therein is thicker, redder, and is very definitely blood.
Leonard raises the bottle a bit, "Since your Blood Dolls aren't here yet, I thought I'd bring over a little bit of the um...The Gastronova special."
He walks over and pours some blood into a wine glass for Ginny.
Arman still looks a little embarrassed and his lips are still slightly parted.
Ginny and Arman politely say thank you.
Lenny winks at Arman and leaves. He closes the door behind him.
Arman looks at Ginny and says, "That...was unexpected." Arman feels a tingling sensation in his crotch.
Something he hasn't felt in a while.
Ginny seductively stares at him and holds the glass full of blood up to her lips. She makes a show of it, a sort of promise of what's to come later this night.
She sips a bit of blood and smacks her lips. Her eyes briefly turn black and she lets out a very small, sultry moan.
Arman just looks at her, frozen in his seat. His eyes are completely dilated. His jaw is slightly slack.
Ginny smiles at him and playfully bites her lip, showing her blood-stained teeth.
She shivers a bit as the blood courses through her body.
Arman warmly smiles at his date.
She teases him, "Too bad you Ventrue are picky about your blood. This stuff's...exquisite." She smacks her lips again as she puts her finger in the glass and swirls it around.
She brings the bloody finger to Arman's lips, "Go on, take a risk, big guy. Have some. Just a bit." She slowly brings the finger into his mouth. Her lips curl up into a smirk.
The Ventrue is hesitant at first but slowly budges as he sucks on Ginny's finger, tasting this supposedly exquisite blood. His eyes glaze over. His hands start to shake a bit.
He gulps as he feels a strange sensation in the pit of his undead stomach.
Even that small amount of blood is likely going to be regurgitated later. As scarlet vomit, most likely.
There's only one "type" (or "kind" or whatever you wanna call it) of blood that he will accept. And its vessels are still not here yet.
Arman angrily asks himself, "What is taking Rolf so long--"
15 or so minutes later, Arman hears a familiar honking sound.
Fucking finally.
Arman steps out of the VIP room and sees Rolf pulling up in front of the restaurant. All 3 Blood Dolls. 1 for Ginny. 1 for Arman. And 1, just in case something happens to either.
One of the Blood Dolls exits the car. She's very attractive. Dark skin, slim build, wavy hair, and a big, beautiful smile. Her dress is sleeveless with a fluid neckline. It's gold, with a black trim.
The next Blood Doll looks to be in her late-20s. She's wearing a blouse with a low-cut neckline, black slacks, and boots. Her blonde hair is braided and has streaks of black in it. She's wearing a lot of makeup.
The last Blood Doll appears to be in her mid-20s. Fair skin, slightly freckled. She's wearing a long, elegant, purple dress. Her hair is tied in a loose bun and her lipstick matches her dress. The rest of her makeup is simple.
Rolf takes the first and second by their arms, while the third walks in front of him. He looks up and sees Arman.
Arman proceeds to head downstairs with Ginny following him. As he walks down the stairs, he looks at his Blood Dolls.
He asks his Ghoul, "You're late, Rolf. Were there any problems?"
Rolf dutifully replies, "Nein. Only traffic."
Arman lowers his voice as Rolf maintains his grip on the 2 women, "Did they make any...fuss?"
Rolf shakes his head.
Arman gently claps his hands once, "Well, I think we can take care of them from here, Rolf. Thank you."
Rolf says, "Master, I would like to speak with you. Privately."
Arman narrows his eyes. He wonders what the matter could be.
They go to a secluded corner of the ground floor while Ginny studies the 3 Blood Dolls. They just stand there, staring at her.
They probably know what awaits them.
Arman places his hand on Rolf's shoulder, "What's the matter now?"
Rolf's voice slightly trembles, "I saw that...man again."
"Which one?"
"From last time you sent me to meet...your wolf friends. When I was returning, I saw dead police officer..."
Arman sighs, "Ah, that. Yes, you're certain it's the same man?"
Rolf shakily nods, "Ja. He saw me again and this time, he waved at me."
Arman rubs his chin and thinks, "Hmm, I see." He strokes his chin.
Arman clicks his tongue, "We shall have to discuss this later, Rolf. The last thing I need is a nosy FBI agent who leaves dead bodies in his wake." Arman chuckles a bit. He has a habit of talking to himself.
Rolf nods, "Ja. Shall I wait here for master to finish or--"
Arman pulls out his wallet and hands Rolf a few $100 bills, "Why don't you order something for yourself, Rolf? The food here, I'm told, is quite excellent." He winks.
Rolf shakes his hand, "Danke. You are a very kind master." He smiles and heads for a table.
Lenny greets Rolf and they get to talking about some sports or fitness thing (Rolf doesn't understand American football), leaving Arman and Ginny alone again.
They head back upstairs to the VIP room, with the 3 Blood Dolls closely following.
Ginny impatiently says, "Well, well. Guess that takes care of that."
She eyes the 3 Blood Dolls one more time before turning to Arman, "Hey, Arman?"
"Yes, my dear?"
"Your Blood Dolls, do they uh...always stare at you like that?" Her tone is curious.
Arman responds, "The Kiss can be quite intoxicating. Orgasmic, even. We take a part of them every time we feed and they perhaps...unwittingly or not retain a part of us."
Arman gestures to one of the Blood Dolls, "Take her for instance," he points to the dark-skinned woman, "She aspires to be a movie star. It's why she left Louisiana. I'm afraid she never got quite far." He deviously smiles.
Arman continues, "Well, I promised her stardom. I promised that one day her name would be on the Hollywood Walk of Fame."
Ginny snickers.
Arman replies, "Of course, I am a creature of my word. If she survives this night and the nights to come, I will place her in some of the finest acting schools in the country."
Ginny smiles at him, "I guess that makes ya one of a kind, then." She chuckles, sarcastically.
Arman reminds her, "But many of them don't make it," he points to the woman with braided her, "She's from Arkansas, I believe. Very strong southern accent. She...well, suffice it to say, she has some issues."
Arman taps his chin, "Still, she's very...stubborn. And determined."
Ginny replies, "Heh, that's cute and all. But when I was still a mortal, I didn't really care too much about the medium-rare cow on my plate. Y'know?"
Arman chuckles, "It's an indignant thing, isn't it, Ginny?"
"What is?"
"That us Kindred are actively being hunted down by our...food sources, for lack of a better term."
Ginny shrugs, "Heh. We just gotta take them out before they get too many of us."
Arman grimly laughs, "You do have a point, my dear. So, shall we?"
Ginny bites her lip, "Thought you'd never ask."
She gets up and heads to the 3 Blood Dolls who are silently sitting at a table. She gestures for them to get up.
Arman follows closely behind.
The dark-skinned woman in the gold dress stands up first.
Arman tells Ginny, "Take your pick, my dear," he beckons her to choose whoever she wants.
Ginny snickers and chooses the woman in gold. She points at her, "You're mine." The woman blushes and smiles as her lips quiver.
She craves The Kiss. The eternal bite.
Arman points to the woman with braided hair, "And you're mine." The blonde woman gets up. Her hands shake a bit as Arman licks his lips.
Arman looks over to the last Blood Doll, "Stay here and keep quiet."
She gasps, probably disappointed (or relieved) that she wasn't picked.
Arman and Ginny take their Blood Dolls back to the VIP room. They shut the door behind them.
Arman locks the door behind them as he gazes at his Blood Doll.
Arman takes his time examining her. He sits down and invites her to sit on his lap.
She silently obliges.
Ginny plays with her Blood Doll's wavy hair. The Blood Doll timidly asks, "You...like it?"
Ginny carelessly responds, "Nah." She then takes her Blood Doll by the hand and sits down next to her.
Ginny's Blood Doll willingly moves her head to the side and holds her long, wavy hair back. Her neck is fully exposed.
The Lasombra lets out a small, but content, smile.
Arman, meanwhile, pushes his Blood Doll's head to the side.
His fangs withdraw and he presses his lips against her neck. He bites down. Gently.
Like the "gentleman" that he is.
Ginny's Blood Doll flinches and lets out a small gasp. She moans.
Ginny's fangs are already sunken in.
Ginny's Blood Doll holds her tightly, refusing to budge or let go. She wants this.
She Needs it.
Ginny's fangs puncture her Blood Doll's skin. She feels a tingling sensation in her neck as the warm, sweet, blood flows into her mouth.
Arman, too, can feel the warm and sweet blood flow into his mouth. He drinks greedily as his eyes widen.
For now, their Beasts are being satiated. But that only lasts until the next time one has to feed...
After a few euphoric seconds, Arman withdraws and licks the puncture wounds shut. His fangs are fully exposed and his eyes have taken on a deeper hue.
He licks his lips clean of the blood.
His Blood Doll is not dead. Her breathing is ragged. He gently lays her on the couch, besides him.
Ginny's Blood Doll lies on the couch, her chest rising and falling. Her wound has been licked clean. Her eyes are half-lidded and her head is lying back. Her lips are slightly parted and her legs are shaking.
Ginny looks at her Blood Doll and remarks, "Arman, is she...?"
Arman feels the blood making its way through his entire undead body. He looks at Ginny and casually responds, "Yes, I believe she's...climaxing. Not her first time doing so."
Ginny smirks and remarks, "That's fuckin' something. Didn't even know you could do that." She playfully chuckles.
Ginny feels satisfied, but she looks outside and sees the woman in the purple dress nursing a glass of water, staring into it and mumbling something or the other to herself.
Arman notices his date is staring at the last Blood Doll and he says, "Shall we share one, my dear?"
Ginny agrees, "Yeah, let's do it."
Arman gets up and asks the woman to follow him. She seems apprehensive at first, but then decides to obey. She obediently follows Arman back to the VIP room.
She gasps as she sees the other 2 Blood Dolls splayed on the couch.
Arman grips the Blood Doll's shoulders tightly and looks into her eyes, "Remember what I promised you. A fully-paid scholarship to the finest drama schools anywhere in the world."
The Blood Doll looks up at Arman and nods, "Yes--yes." Her voice is trembling.
The Blood Doll proceeds to sit in between Arman and Ginny.
Arman tells the Blood Doll, "You know what to do, don't you."
She dryly nods and pushes her head back onto the couch, exposing her neck further.
Ginny's fangs are out and she leans in and begins her own feeding.
Arman says, "Don't worry. This won't hurt."
She nervously gulps as another set of fangs pierce into her neck, taking her blood.
The Beast rouses within both Arman and Ginny.
Arman tightens his grip on the Blood Doll as his claws snap out. He drinks deeply, hungrily, and without mercy.
The Blood Doll's body shakes. Her eyes are wide and her face is getting paler.
Ginny growls as she feeds. She takes more than a sip. More than a mere gulp. She takes more than she should.
The Blood Doll slowly goes limp and her eyes flutter close. Ginny lets out a small moan as she continues drinking. She wants more. She needs more. She craves more.
She feeds. Arman feeds.
With one final gasp of shock, the Blood Doll falls limp. She's been drained of every last drop. Her skin is a sickly shade of white. Her eyes are a ghastly shade of red. Her body is lifeless. She's gone.
Like so many other mortals preyed on before.
Arman pulls away and doesn't bother licking the puncture wound shut.
Ginny also pulls away and doesn't bother licking her victim's neck. She doesn't give a shit.
Her eyes are completely black and her fangs are fully extended, dripping with blood. She snarls.
Blood flows down Arman's chin. He looks to the side, not sure what to do next.
Ginny swiftly grabs Arman and presses her lips against his. She kisses him hungrily and deeply.
Arman seems a bit surprised by this, but he returns the kiss just as passionately.
Eventually, they pull back and Ginny says, "Whoa..."
Arman takes off his bowtie and puts it in his pocket. He then unbuttons his collar and throws his head back. He looks to Ginny and asks, "Was it...enough?" His voice is a bit strained.
Ginny licks her lips as she savors the blood and feels it making its way throughout her body, "Yeah, I think it was." She sits back, trying to regain her composure.
She sees the dead Blood Doll, lifeless, pale, and exsanguinated, lying on the couch.
She turns to Arman and asks, "What...are we gonna do with this?" she gestures to the dead Blood Doll.
Arman softly chuckles, "That's why I have Rolf, my dear."
Arman summons his retainer, who's just sitting at one of the tables on the ground floor.
Rolf looks up as Arman beckons him. He quickly makes his way upstairs.
Arman simply says, "You know what you have to do." He points to the lifeless body.
Rolf solemnly nods and gets to work. First, he heads downstairs to bring the car much closer to the restaurant.
Lenny asks him if he needs help, but Rolf simply tells him, "Nein, I am...quite good at this." He sounds as professional and as serious as possible.
Lenny says, "Bring the body through the side," he points to a side entrance. Rolf silently nods and does as he is told.
The Ghoul goes back upstairs and carries the dead woman in his arms. He walks her to the car, which is parked right out front. He loads her in the trunk, gently and carefully.
Lenny looks around as Rolf carries out this sordid deed. He's smoking a cigar, swerving his head from side to side. He can't see anything.
And he wouldn't want to.
Arman says, "Make sure you get rid of her soon. Also, get these 2 out of here and...back home." He points to the 2 women splayed on the couch, who are just starting to come to their senses.
Rolf cocks his head, "Master...not returning home?"
Arman gives Ginny a look, "I will be spending the remainder of the night and tomorrow morning at--"
Ginny wryly interrupts, "My place, Rolf."
Rolf curtly bows his head, "I will dispose of corpse and take other 2 ladies back home, master."
Arman firmly says, "I expect nothing less, Rolf. Goodnight. Pick me up tomorrow evening, if you please. You know Ginny's address, don't you?" He smiles.
Rolf bows his head and leaves, ready to carry out his orders. He helps the other 2 Blood Dolls up and leads them to the car. They both get in the backseat as Rolf takes the wheel.
Lenny stops Rolf before he leaves. He seems to be holding a plastic bag in his hand. He says, "Here you go," as he holds up the bag.
Apparently Rolf ordered some well-done Wagyu Steak with fries. He was planning on eating it in the restaurant, but well...
Lenny hands Rolf his order and says, "Normally, I wouldn't recommend taking something like this to go, but Arman and his..." he chuckles, "...date got a bit carried away tonight. Heh. It happens. I know that feeling, Rolf."
Lenny clears his throat, "Anyway, heat it up on a pan for a few minutes. DON'T microwave it."
Rolf nods, "Ja. Thank you, Leonard."
Lenny chuckles, "No probs, Rolf!"
Arman gets up and extends a hand to Ginny. She takes his hand and stands up. They walk to the window.
They see Rolf driving away with the 2 Blood Dolls in the backseat. The dead one is in the trunk.
Ginny laughs, "So, how do you often get rid of bodies in such situations?"
Arman has a faraway look, "That, my dear is ALL Rolf's specialty. I stay out of such...unpleasant things. But, I trust my Ghoul to do as I say. He's quite reliable."
"Hmph. And, where will the dead bitch wash up?"
Arman shrugs as he brushes a few strands of hair off his tux, "There will be no 'washing up' for her."
"Ya think I should get myself a Rolf, too?"
"Men like him, Ginny, are not made in factories, I'm afraid. When choosing a Ghoul, one must be...selective."
Ginny playfully smiles, "Ya got any suggestions, fancy pants?"
Arman looks at his shoes, "Your retainer must...complement you. They must be able to meet any...demand, or, at least, the need you have for them at the moment."
Ginny chuckles, "Hmph. Well, I guess that's something else for me to think about. Where'd you find the big guy, anyway?"
Arman replies, "Berlin. He was a bouncer at the Club Oase. Quite the intimidating figure, even back then. I suppose I had an...affinity for someone of his stature."
He laughs and continues, "Besides, his life...and strength was being wasted in that club. Throwing drunk and belligerent patrons out every single night? Hmph, no, it was simply a waste."
He shakes his head, "He was destined for...greater things."
Arman then says, "Apparently they closed down the Club Oase. I'm afraid the Ventrue of Berlin weren't all too bright to begin with. As I recall, they were mostly Neonates who Diablerized their Sires."
He goes on, "Oh, the fights they used to get into? Heh. I was there for business, of course."
"What kinda business was that?"
"Shipping, my dear."
Ginny laughs, "Really? Ya made your big bucks in...Shipping?"
Arman reassures his date, "It's quite the lucrative field, when you have the right connections. I'm a very successful businessman in Europe, Ginny. Not just in North America."
Ginny raises her eyebrow, "Ah...nice. What else ya got?"
"I hold shares in many Fortune 500 companies."
He smiles, "The key is knowing how to get ahead in business and what risks are worth taking."
Arman raises his chin, "Anyway, I don't wish to bore you with all the...encumbering details of such things, my dear."
Ginny playfully sighs, "No, no. It's a um...beautiful night, isn't it?"
Arman nods as he looks up at the starry night sky through the window, "Yes, it is. I'd much rather spend time like this, Ginny. I enjoy your company. And your...attitude. It's refreshing."
He leans in and whispers in her ear, "I would like to dance with you again, my dear. The last time at the gala was quite enjoyable."
Ginny bites her lip and looks around, "Where's the music?"
Arman looks up and notices the speakers in the room. He calls for Leonard.
Lenny walks upstairs and asks, "Something the matter?"
Arman says, "We'd like some music, Leonard. And some...space."
Leonard calls for a few waiters and in a few minutes' time, they've cleared a portion of the first floor, leaving it open.
They also dim the lights a bit, to give the floor a romantic ambiance.
Arman nods as Lenny remotely activates the restaurant's robust (and very expensive!) sound system.
Lenny and the waiters leave the 2 be and head back downstairs.
Arman puts his arms around Ginny as he leads her to the open space.
He looks at the ceiling, waiting for the music to come on.
Ginny pulls him closer and their lips almost touch.
Arman smiles and gives her a quick peck.
The music starts. It's something generic and slow.
The 2 slowly begin their dance. Arman leads Ginny. They step together, side to side, and sway from side to side.
He takes her into his arms as they dance. As they spin and glide, he stares into her eyes. He sees her. And, she sees him.
These 2 are not just co-conspirators playing a dangerous game anymore. They're something more. Something...different.
Bloodstained lovers.
Or perhaps one is using the other for their own selfish gain. Maybe the other is doing the exact same thing?
There's a chance that the other is a willing participant in this...scheme? Could it simply be that the other is just an unwilling victim?
Who knows...
But, tonight, however, Arman and Ginny appear to be enamored with each other. And they seem to be enjoying themselves. Maybe, for now, that's all that matters.
Right?
Arman and Ginny continue dancing as the song goes on. Ginny eventually gets used to Arman's swift movements and spins. She follows him without missing too many beats. She seems to be enjoying herself.
Her eyes are locked on his. She's lost in his gaze. And he's lost in hers.
This gentle dance goes on for a good few minutes, with the music looping over and over again.
Eventually, they stop while the music continues. They look at each other and head back in to the VIP room.
They plop themselves onto the couch and breathe out. Their clothes are slightly disheveled and their hair is a bit messed up.
They sit close to each other and begin talking again.
Ginny asks, "Y'know, I never did get your last name, Arman."
Arman warmly smiles, "Go on, take a guess, my dear."
Ginny scratches her ear, "Um...Arman Jindal? Y'know like that guy who's also Indian???"
Arman struggles to hold back a snicker, "No, my dear. Try again." He's still smiling.
Ginny thinks for a bit, "Um...Arman Haley?"
Arman bursts out into laughter.
Ginny frowns and sighs, "OK, I give up. What is it?"
"Rajakrishnan. Arman Rajakrishnan."
Ginny stammers as she struggles to pronounce his last name.
He gently guides her, "It can be quite...tough to pronounce. Which is why I rarely use it. Amongst other reasons."
He says, "Cut it up and start slowly: 'Raja'."
"Raja."
"Krish"
"Krish"
"Nan"
"Nan"
"Raja-krish-nan. There, simple, isn't it?"
"R--Raja-krish-nan." She furrows her brow, still struggling to pronounce his last name.
Arman nods, "That will suffice for now, Ginny." He gently places his hand on her cheek.
Ginny says, "Y'know, my last name's a whole lot simpler."
"Ah, yes. It's ironic isn't it? We've known each other for...quite some time now. Then again, what is 'time' to a Kindred?" He chuckles as his voice trails off.
Ginny shakes her head, "It's Bane."
Arman narrows his eyes, "Ginny Bane?"
Ginny chuckles, "Actually, 'Ginny' is more of a...nickname. My real name's Virginia. Virginia Bane."
Arman nods and teases her, "Virginia Bane. I can imagine that's what your...stained overalls said." He laughs.
Ginny winces, "That was a long time ago, Arman. I'm done with that...life." She sounds...bitter.
Arman holds her hand, "I'm sorry, my dear. I didn't mean to bring up any...unpleasant memories." He looks at her for a few moments.
She looks at him, "I mean, I still know about cars and shit, but I'm done with that life. I'm not gonna be a mechanic ever again. I'm gonna be...something else. S--Someone else."
Arman nods, "Yes. You have certainly proven to be capable of so much more, Virginia. And you're going to do great things," he reassuringly smiles at her.
Ginny looks away and raises her head a bit, "I wanna see the year 2100, Arman. Which is why we're doing what we're doing here, right? So, I can get to where I wanna go?"
Arman smiles, "And where is that, my dear?"
Ginny looks at him and smiles, "You'll see. Some place...nice."
Arman has a puzzled expression on his face, "You don't intend to stay in Plaintry for long? This town has been good to us, so far. Why would you want to leave?"
Ginny's smile fades, "Because, I wanna see what it's like out there. Make contact with other Kindred. See the sights, y'know?"
She adds, "Besides, it's getting...tiring around here. Monotonous, I guess. Heh. I also don't like seeing this town crawling with Feds."
Arman reassures her, "Their presence in this town is only temporary."
She presses her date, "How exactly are we gonna deal with the SI and its lackeys anyway? You gonna unleash the Garou on them, too? I'd actually be down with that."
Arman replies, "No, my dear. I'm afraid that would be...counterproductive, unpredictable, and very very messy. The SI outnumber our Garou 'friends'."
He lowers his voice, "Besides, I don't intend for those...dogs to live much longer."
Ginny raises an eyebrow, "Oh?"
Arman explains, "I have...plans in place, my dear. You needn't worry about a thing. Just do your part and I'll take care of the rest."
Ginny snickers, "Well, I'm glad you're on our side, Arman."
Arman chuckles, "I, too, am a survivor. Even I plan to see the year 2100. Perhaps even beyond that."
He looks at Ginny, "With our Childer, and perhaps their Childer by our side, we can make a name for ourselves."
Ginny says, "So, what's the plan then? What's the next step?"
Arman strokes his chin, "Speak to the Malkavian. Get to know her. And then, we'll figure out how to deal with the SI. The Tremere, too."
Ginny asks, "What about that 'Memphis Green' operation??"
Arman looks away and shrugs, "Bernice's parents are connected to the alphabet agencies. Secure their freedom, get their help. If we can get them on our side, that would be a great boon. But, if not, well..." he trails off.
He looks at Ginny, "...We'll just have to think of something more drastic."
He sees her get excited at the mention of "drastic".
He continues, "As for the Prince's Clan, Ravnos, well, we can simply use them as pawns in our game. They're already fragmented due to their Clan Curse. We'll just use them to our advantage."
Ginny insistently asks, "And, what about the Tremere? What about that redhead bitch?"
Arman grimly smiles, "Lenny and I will deal with her. Don't you worry, Ginny. And, yes, I intend to pay back your $125,000. Every last cent."
Ginny smirks, "Yeah, I'm sure you do." She playfully nudges him.
Ginny asks, "So, you're really gonna buy that joint, huh?"
Arman nods, looking a bit indifferent over the whole thing, "It's a decent investment. Besides, it's not like I can't afford it."
He continues, "8 million from me. 6 million from Leonard. Once Camden's out of the way, that is."
Ginny asks, "You need help wasting that clown?"
Arman laughs, "I appreciate the offer, my dear. But, I think I can handle him myself." He gives her a smug look.
She shrugs, "Sure. Well, what now?"
Arman looks at his watch, "It's too early to get our...portrait done. He can wait for us. It's what I paid him for."
He looks at Ginny, "Shall we...continue our conversation?"
Ginny shrugs, "Sure. As long as you do most of the talking."
And so they spend the next few hours in the VIP room, talking.
About stuff- Unlife, life, personal matters, matters of the heart, business, their plans, and everything in between.
They talk and laugh and share stories.
And the night grows old.
Until, finally, Arman gets up and takes out his phone. It's 12:57 AM.
Arman pats his pants. Ginny plays around with her hair and dress.
Lenny walks upstairs and points to his watch.
Arman politely nods, "It's time for us to leave. My, how time flies, hmm?" he chuckles.
Leonard smiles, "Would you like me to...call you a cab, or perhaps--"
Ginny cuts him off, "Nah." She pulls her car keys from her golden purse and playfully twirls them around, "I'm drivin'."
Arman laughs and takes his date by the arm. They walk downstairs.
Lenny walks the 2 out the front door. He firmly shakes Arman's hand, "Thanks for not making a mess, Arman."
He turns to Ginny, "Tell your Lasombra buddies they're welcome to The Gastronova. As long as they got the money, I can provide...the meat."
Ginny and Arman chuckle.
Lenny then says, "Have fun, you 2."
Arman waves goodbye as he gets in the passenger seat of Ginny's car.
It's a silver first generation Audi A4 Sedan (pre-facelift). Ginny's probably modified the car in some way or the other.
Arman looks around the car and remarks, "I take it you've...made some changes to this vehicle."
Ginny nods, "Mm-hmm. Plenty."
Ginny starts the car up and speeds off.
Arman gives her directions to where that street artist is supposed to be waiting for them. He really wants to have her drawn.
They arrive at the location.
It's empty this time of the night. The benches and the sidewalk are empty. The shops and small restaurants are all closed. It's dark and quite desolate this time of night.
The street lights flicker for a few moments. One of the bulbs short out, casting a shadow on the street.
Ginny shrugs and stops the car. She parks it in front of a shuttered plant and garden shop. She turns off the car and gets out.
Arman joins her and closes the door behind him. He looks around and checks his watch once more.
Ginny gruffly asks, "Heh. Where's this...street artist at, anyway?"
Arman replies, "I suspect he's around here. I TOLD him to wait for me. Pfft." He sounds a bit annoyed.
Arman walks up and down the sidewalk, peering into the dark alleyways and into the small park.
Ginny points to a figure under the street light, reclining on a bench. His arms are crossed and his legs are stretched out. He looks...restless. Maybe even bored?
Arman sighs a sigh of relief, "Yes. That's him." He turns to Ginny, "Shall we, my dear?"
Ginny holds Arman's cold hand and they walk to the man. He seems a bit surprised as the 2 approach him.
This street artist is in his late 60s. He's wearing a black turtleneck and a pair of faded linen pants. His gray hair is messy and covers his ears. His brown eyes are droopy and are surrounded by heavy bags. He looks tired. He's also wearing a gold chain.
He sluggishly stands up, "Goddamn! It's about time you showed up--"
Arman firmly clears his throat.
The street artist stops himself and goes to get his things which he kept beside a nearby tree. He then sits down at his easel.
He gets a sketchbook, a box of pencils, and a set of charcoal sticks. He opens his box of pencils, picks out a few, and then grabs the charcoal sticks.
Ginny sits down on the bench next to Arman. He whispers to her, "Don't worry. He knows what he's doing." He strokes her cheek.
The street artist speaks up, "Just sit down, keep the talking to a minimum, and don't twitch or move your head too much."
Arman and Ginny easily do as they are told. They sit still, like a couple of mannequins.
Arman even crosses his legs and proudly raises his chin.
Ginny gives a sideways glance.
The street artist begins his work. First, he sketches out the entire background, making sure to draw the shadows and the surrounding buildings.
From there, he slowly proceeds to drawing their outlines. He eyes them from head to toe, muttering something or the other to himself. He nods and continues sketching.
He works very, very fast. With speed, precision, and a practiced hand, he creates the outline of each person.
He asks, "So, how long you 2 been dating?"
Arman softly chuckles, "Is it that obvious? I mean--"
Ginny interjects, "We've known each other quite some time now. So, y'know, it's kinda hard to tell."
The street artist smirks, "Yeah. That's how it usually goes. One thing you know, they're just a fellow student. Next thing, you're saying 'I do' in front of hundreds of strangers."
Arman frowns, "Yes. You seem to be a very insightful man, Mr.--"
"Green. Blake Green. And you are?"
"Arman. And this here is Ginny."
The street artist looks up from his work, "Ginny? I got a daughter named Ginny. She's doing her Master's at Flimont City, if you can believe it."
Arman laughs, "It's a beautiful name, isn't it?"
Blake agrees, "Yep. Virginia. Ginny. My wife was the one who named her."
Arman nods, "A fine name for a fine woman."
Blake looks down and continues, "Hmmm. Yep. Now, no twitching. This part's...delicate." He begins shading, making the people's skin look more real.
Arman and Ginny oblige. They sit there and keep still.
Ginny eventually asks, "So, how long you been drawing people, Blake?"
Blake dryly replies, "This...is just a thing I do for some extra cash. Wife's got cancer and there's no cure. I'm all she's got. I can't keep a steady job at my age, so, I...draw." He goes back to his work.
He mildly groans and shakes his head, "So, how could I say 'no' when your boyfriend here showed up and offered me 400 bucks to draw you 2 in the middle of the goddamn night?"
Arman whispers to Ginny, "I told you...I can be very persuasive."
Ginny places her hand on Arman's thigh and gives him a suggestive look.
Blake calls out, "Hey! Cut it off, you 2. Sheesh. You're ruining the drawing. You want this done right or not?" He continues working.
Ginny smirks at Arman, who seems a bit embarrassed.
Arman asks, "Do you do...nude drawings, Mr. Blake?"
Blake doesn't seem too unfazed by that question, "I used to. Back at The University Of Plaintry. Um...why?"
Arman replies, "Oh, no reason. The University Of Plaintry, you say? Are you a graduate?"
Blake laughs, "Hell yeah! Graduated with an above-average grade and a Bachelor's degree in Fine Art."
He looks at Ginny and then back at Arman, "I've been drawing for as long as I can remember. Even met my wife and got married while at the UOP."
He looks to the side, as if reminiscing, "Damn. I miss that fuckin' place. Would have sent Ginny there if it were still around. Stupid fuckin' McMahons and their holier-than-thou bullshit."
Arman raises an eyebrow, "What exactly happened?"
Blake sharply exhales, "Long, and I mean LONG, fucking story. All I know is they did Professor Calhoun dirty. He was a great guy. Wanted to give us an appreciation of the arts and stuff."
He draws for a few moments before continuing, "Well, he got fired for allegedly having an affair with a..." he furrows his brows as he tries to remember, "...yep, a foreign exchange student or something like that."
Arman leans forward, "Is that so? How...long ago was this?"
Blake sighs, "About 30-ish years ago."
Arman smiles, "I see. Interesting, most interesting." He sits back.
Blake continues his work, "Once those scandalmongering McMahons got wind of what was going on, they pounced like a pack of hungry dogs. They said he was teaching the students nasty things. And that the UOP as a whole was an unholy institution."
He chuckles, "So, they dragged him in front of the board. Got him fired and the University closed down soon after. They had the gall to say the UOP was a 'vile and perverse institution corrupting the minds of America's youth.'"
He grunts as he pulls out some pencils from the box, "When I last saw Professor Geoffrey Calhoun, he was a fucking wreck."
Ginny asks, "What about the exchange student?"
Blake replies, "That's the wild part. Rumors at the time suggested she was pregnant. If I recall correctly, she was some redhead chick from the uh...Netherlands, or wherever."
Ginny's eyes widen and Arman raises an eyebrow, "Oh? A...redhead? Are you certain?"
Blake looks up from his work, "Look, it was 30+ years ago--"
Arman asks, "Did she keep the baby?"
Blake shrugs, "Hell if I know. Maybe, maybe not. Why?"
Arman gives Ginny a knowing look before replying, "Oh, no reason. Just...simple curiosity."
Blake intently returns to his work, "Yeah, nuff yapping. I'm doing your lips now, so keep 'em closed."
Ginny smirks at Arman, who seems amused (and intrigued by what he's heard).
Blake spends the next few or so minutes at work. Words are rarely exchanged as he puts his all into this drawing of Arman and Ginny.
45 minutes later, Blake has finished. He packs his things and says, "Alright, here's the deal. I give you your portrait and I'm out. It's waaaay past my bedtime and my wife must be worried sick."
He hands Arman the portrait. It's a stunning portrait of a couple sitting on the bench. The intricate background details and the starry sky behind them give the portrait an almost surreal, yet romantic look.
Arman hands Ginny the portrait and tells Blake, "This is for her, actually."
Ginny looks at the portrait and looks at her face as drawn by Blake. Her lips quiver, "Th--Thanks, Blake. You're pretty damn good."
Blake nods, "Mm-hmm. Will there be anything else?"
Arman replies, "No. That is all. However, I would like to know more about this...Professor of yours and everything surrounding what happened at the University Of Plaintry 30 years ago."
Blake takes the base of his neck, "Y'know, I once saw something really weird. Um...years ago."
Ginny's too busy admiring the portrait of her and Arman.
It's been a while since she's seen her own face. The Lasombra Clan Curse distorts her image in front of anything from mirrors to cameras (even the old polaroid ones!).
Arman asks, "'Weird'? How so?"
Blake shrugs, "Eh, it's probably nothing."
Arman firmly states, "I insist, Mr. Blake."
Blake winces, "Fine. Fine. I saw Professor Calhoun outside a nightclub downtown one night. He was just standing there with his hands in his pockets. It was really late. Weird part is...he looked the same."
Ginny asks, "'Looked the same' how?"
Blake's eyes widen, "Like he hadn't aged a day since I last saw him back in the 80s! It was fucking weird a--and kinda scary. Maybe it was someone else..." he shrugs as his voice trails off.
But Arman and Ginny now know who EXACTLY that is (or was). Geoffrey Calhoun. Clan Toreador. Former Prince of Plaintry.
Met Final Death at the sword of Sheriff Eunice.
The 2 vampires glance at one another.
Blake goes on, "I saw him talking to a cop. She seemed pretty aloof, but I didn't get a good look at her."
Arman says, "Very interesting. Anyway, thank you for your time, Mr. Green."
Arman extends his cold hand, which Blake firmly shakes. Blake nods. He says goodbye, and goes off, leaving the 2 be.
They're left alone under the streetlight.
Ginny looks at her date, "So, now what?"
Arman smiles and takes a good look around, "The night is still young, my dear."
She shows him the drawing and remarks, "It's quite amazing, isn't it?"
He warmly replies, "Yes. See how beautiful you look, Ginny? You're stunning. Truly." He gives her a gentle, reassuring look.
She shyly smiles, "I am, aren't I?" She touches her cheek. She feels the blood rushing to her face. She's...blushing.
Ginny then says, "Let's get outta here and you...outta that tux." She gives her date a mischievous look.
Arman softly chuckles, "It has...been a while since I've--"
She playfully teases, "What? Had sex?"
Arman looks a bit embarrassed, "Yes. The last time was during my visit to Dubai almost a decade ago..." He debates telling her more, but decides against it.
Ginny gets in the car and waits for Arman. He sits beside her, and the 2 drive off.
As the car speeds down the (mostly) empty streets of Plaintry, Arman thinks back to what Blake told him and Ginny.
The duo get to talking about it.
Ginny mostly nods along while Arman does most of the talking.
Arman turns off his phone as he won't be needing it for the rest of the night. Ginny snickers.
He continues, "So, it's certainly a possibility that she...is his daughter. The timeframe seems to lineup."
Ginny shrugs, "Not like it makes a difference. It doesn't mean she has the right to take Praxis, right? RIGHT?!"
"No, she has no right whatsoever. Thankfully."
Arman sighs, "But the implications of this info are not...ideal. She could pose a threat to our plans--"
"What if we told her?"
Arman gives Ginny a surprised look, "God no, Ginny! Information like this is NOT meant to be thrown around."
"What if we had her on our side?"
Arman laughs, "How exactly would we get someone like HER on our side, my dear? She's already proven to be quite...timid, volatile, and VERY emotional."
"I know, but we need to do something about her, Arman."
Arman calms her down, "And we will, Ginny. We will."
Ginny scoffs, "You really think that plan's gonna pan out?"
Arman calmly responds, "She needs a job, my dear. And after what she's done, no company will hire her. That video has already gone viral."
Ginny furrows her brow, "Hmph. Tell me about it."
Arman chuckles, "Actually, some of the remixes of those 2 arguing are quite...hilarious."
"Yeah, well, I didn't think she'd be that...nuts. I mean, she was just some nobody writer."
"And yet, she might be more than that."
"Ya think she'll ever find out on her own?"
"Find out what, my dear?"
"About who daddy and mommy might be?"
Arman shrugs indifferently, "Who knows? It's not important, Ginny. We have bigger fish to fry."
He goes on, "Anyway, I suggest we focus on the Malkavian. Sheriff Eunice has to be made to see things our way."
"So, what's your plan, anyway?"
"You'll...have a word with her. Talk her into our side, if possible. Try to connect with her. I believe she recently lost her husband, didn't she?"
"Yeah, she did. What's that got to do with anything?"
"I recall you telling me that she's a 'stone-cold bitch' who'd 'kill her own kid for the right price.'"
Ginny chuckles, "Yeah. Gotta love small town cops; they know how to play the game."
Arman smiles, "Exactly. The Sheriff is clearly a determined woman. Convince her that Lucas is simply not the right fit as Prince. There's a strong case to be made there."
Ginny frowns, "I don't think she's gonna be too swayed by that alone, Arman. Malkavians are uh...yeah, they're not the best at that kind of stuff."
"Hmm. Yes, I've...heard stories about them. Still, she may be persuaded if we play our cards right. Talking to her as a first step won't hurt."
Ginny looks at Arman and nods, "Ehh, yeah. I'll set something up this week."
Arman smiles at her, "Good."
Ginny asks, "So, playboy, when's the last time you...got laid?"
That question came out of nowhere. Arman gulps and nervously chuckles, "Ah, well. A while, my dear. A while."
Ginny's eyes widen, "A while, huh?" She's obviously a bit...surprised.
Arman clears his throat, "I'm usually very busy, Ginny. My businesses, Clan affairs, and whatnot."
Ginny directly asks, "And where do you see...'us' going?"
Arman seems taken aback by that question, "Why, I'd hope for something long-term. What about you, Ginny?"
Ginny says, "Yeah, I'm done with the whole hook up thing for now."
Arman says, "Yes. It's a very...fleeting, ephemeral thing for us Kindred. One must find something...lasting."
Ginny nods, "Long-lasting. Yeah."
Arman smiles and says, "Indeed."
Ginny asks, "So, what do we do with all that juicy stuff Blake told us?"
Arman indifferently says, "Nothing. We simply keep it to ourselves. Should she prove to be trouble in the near future, then we'll take action."
"That's all??"
"Yes. For now. We have a plan, my dear. We mustn't deviate from it. Not when we are so close to achieving our goals." There is a certain finality in his voice. There's a hungriness in his dead eyes.
Ginny agrees, "Fair enough. Besides, it's mostly speculation, right?"
Arman says, "Yes, but how many 30 year old redheads do you know in this town??"
Ginny shrugs, "Ehh, good point."
She turns her gaze to the road and puts her foot on the pedal. She speeds off.
The 2 remain silent for a bit as the car speeds down the darkened streets, back to Ginny's Haven.
They drive through the mostly empty, desolate streets. The occasional car passes them by.
The moon hangs high in the starry night sky, bathing the town in its soft glow.
It's a lovely sight.
It's a lovely night.
The 2 speak about other matters. Ginny learns that Arman spent 18 months in Dubai a decade or so ago.
Ginny laughs and says, "You really gotta stop buying things, man!"
Arman laughs, "I do not buy things. I merely...invest."
He explains, "I have in more than one way developed a taste for the rarefied things on offer."
Ginny teases, "That's an understatement."
Soon enough, the 2 arrive at Ginny's Haven. Ginny parks her car and the 2 walk up to her front door.
Ginny looks at Arman from head to toe and bites her lip.
Arman feels yet another tingling sensation...down there.
He flashes her a quick smile as she hastily pulls out her keys and unlocks her front door.
Arman spends a few seconds admiring the $400 portrait before heading inside.
The lights are off. Ginny flicks a switch and stifles a groan as the lights slowly turn on.
The living room is decent enough. No TV. The thick blackout curtains are drawn. The couch is a bit messy. The coffee table is empty.
The kitchen is just as barren. Arman asks, "Any issues with the paperwork for this lovely house?"
Ginny replies, "Why?"
"Ahh, I might know some Malkavians in the Cayman Islands who are good with documents."
Ginny turns around, "I might have some issues. Especially with the Property Taxes."
Arman tells her, "The amount of Kindred who have been found out and destroyed due to tax issues is hilariously staggering."
"Really?"
"Mmm-hmm."
Arman goes on, "But, my friends in the Cayman Islands can help. Free of charge, of course."
Ginny narrows her eyes, "How'd you get a buncha Lunatics to do anythin' for free, anyway?"
Arman chuckles, "One must make sacrifices to get ahead in Unlife, Ginny. But, yes, that is one of the benefits of being a Ventrue. Especially a well-connected one with a Sire whose very name commands respect."
He looks at her, "My dear, would you mind terribly if I make myself...comfortable?"
Ginny smirks, "Mi casa es su casa (ES: My house is your house)."
Arman takes off his tuxedo jacket and sits on the couch. He also unbuttons the top buttons of his shirt and throws his head back.
Ginny sits next to him and watches as he takes a good look around the place. She asks, "You wanna see the first floor?" She's hinting at...something more. There's an undertone in her voice.
Arman asks, "Do you speak Spanish, Ginny?"
Ginny replies, "Heh. A bit, yep. A lotta Lasombra actually come from Spain, y'know. Anyway, you wanna go up or not?" Her eyes are fixed on him. There's a certain intensity in her gaze.
Arman sits up, "I do, my dear, but...it's been a while."
Ginny shrugs, "Just show a lady a good time, OK?" She gives him a teasing, yet flirty look.
She takes him by the hand and leads him upstairs to her bedroom.
Ginny's bedroom is quite well-kept and spacious. The queen sized bed is set against the off-white wall. The windows are draped with thick blackout curtains, which gives the room a bit of a dark, almost foreboding air.
There's a desk in the corner that's full of papers, inkwells, and other writing implements. Arman supposes that Ginny spends her evenings writing something or the other.
There's no mirrors in the room at all. The lighting is soft, almost somber. A few old paintings dot the walls of her room.
The bed is not entirely messy. The sheets are soft and blue. The pillows look a bit hard, however. There's a small nightstand beside the bed with an analogue alarm clock. An antique piece, by the looks of it.
Ginny locks the door behind them and walks up to the bed. She stands near the edge, still holding Arman's cold hand which has started to slightly tremble, likely in anticipation of what is to come.
She looks up at him. She moves closer to him and brushes his hair back. She looks him in the eyes, staring at him. She sees her horribly distorted reflection in his dead eyes.
She takes a deep breath and whispers, "I want you Arman."
Arman gently replies, "I want you too, Ginny."
Ginny plants a kiss on his lips. She pulls herself closer, deepening the kiss.
Arman, still locked in the kiss, lifts her up. His lips still pressed against hers, he sits her down on the bed. Ginny squeals as she's laid on the bed. Arman breaks the kiss and looks down at her, his pupils dilated.
She playfully smirks up at him, places her hands on his cheeks, and kisses him again.
Arman's body rubs up against hers as they continue kissing. She wraps her arms around him and pulls him down with her onto the bed. She feels his cold body, cold skin against her own cold body and skin.
They continue kissing as Arman's hands move down to Ginny's breasts. He squeezes them, causing Ginny to squirm under him. She moans in his mouth.
Arman helps Ginny get out of her dress. She flings it to the side and seductively licks her lips as she leans forward and starts unbuttoning Arman's shirt. Her nimble fingers make quick work of the buttons. Soon, the shirt is completely unbuttoned and on the floor.
Arman quickly takes off his vest and tosses it aside, revealing his bare chest. He then gets back in and the 2 continue kissing. His cold hands roam all over her body. He gropes her breasts and feels her up.
Ginny lets out a soft moan as he unhooks her bra. She slips out of it and reveals her breasts to Arman.
He proceeds to lick and suck on her breasts. She giggles a bit as he does so.
Ginny leans back as she feels his cold hands roam all over her body. She lets out a moan as he rubs her inner thighs. His fingers gently caress her while his lips and tongue toy with her nipples.
She runs her hands through his hair as he kisses his way up to her neck.
Her hands make quick work of his belt. She wildly tosses it to the side. Her fingers then deftly unzip his pants. She pushes him back a bit as she eagerly pulls his pants down.
Arman looks down at his bulging briefs, "Wow. I didn't even know th--that was still possible after all these years."
Ginny licks her lips as she reaches for his briefs. She pulls them down. Arman's cock springs free. He's a bit...soft, but hard enough for what's to come.
Ginny huskily says, "Sit back and relax, pretty boy."
And so the rest of their night (soon approaching day) is spent in this...romantic encounter.
Many hours prior...
Maya awakens from her day-sleep. She groans and rubs her eyes. She turns over and finds the bed empty.
Lucile's absence (although temporary) is already becoming apparent. Maya's undead heart sinks a bit.
She stays where she is for a bit, looking up at the ceiling and just thinking how crazy these past few nights have been. And how crazy last night was.
The Garou attack on Frank and the other Ravnos at the garage still leaves her feeling uneasy. But, for now, she has to focus on her tasks for tonight.
And so she gets up, takes a shower, and prepares for the night ahead.
That all too familiar feeling of The Hunger comes back as Maya leaves her room and goes upstairs to the living room.
She takes her phone out and spends a few minutes idly scrolling through her music playlist, looking for something to listen to.
But no amount of music can ease the the eternal demands of The Beast. It's starting to resemble a storm is raging in her head.
She plops herself on the couch and blows a raspberry, "Ugh. So lonely...So, so lonely. I wish she was still here. I wish we could just...get lost together."
Suddenly, she feels something in the back of her mind. She feels compelled to contact Lucile through the way they agreed. So, she immediately opens her laptop and clicks on the link that was given to her.
She stares at her own reflection as she is redirected to a strange webpage.
"CONNECTING..."
Eventually, she's in. She's given a random avatar and username. The webcam comes on and she sees herself. Her red hair is disheveled. Her face looks fresh enough, albeit a bit pale.
She waits. And waits.
Eventually, another random avatar and username enters the session. Lucile's face comes on the screen. She's sitting on a bed and her brown hair is a mess. She looks like she just woke up from her day-sleep.
Maya's eyes light up at the sight of Lucile's face, "Lucile! I was hoping you'd be online. I missed you!"
Lucile smiles, "My poinsettia. I missed you, too."
Maya sighs in relief, "I had this feeling that I should get online and connect."
Lucile chuckles, "Heh, I was just about to contact you. I was hoping you'd be online."
Maya asks, "How are you holding up, Lucile?"
Lucile nods her head, "Eh, good enough. I'm in some dingy BNB a few towns over. It's alright. I just gotta wait around for further instructions. Then, it's on."
"Oh? What is it?"
"Another delivery, I guess. Dunno where yet."
"Anything...bad happen to you?" Maya asks, genuinely concerned about her.
"Nope. Not yet. Been quiet so far."
Maya asks, "How did I know when to come online and get in touch?"
Lucile shrugs, "Maybe your Auspex triggered due to thinking about me. Maybe it's the effects of the...Blood Bond we initiated. Or maybe it's something else. But, don't worry about it. That's a discussion for another time, sweetie."
Maya nods, "Yeah. Still a lot I gotta learn and a lot more I gotta get used to."
The timer slowly counts down.
Maya sighs and says, "A lot happened the night you left. I doubt I have much time to tell you everything, but--"
Lucile interjects as a concerned look comes across her face, "Are YOU OK, Maya?"
Maya chuckles, "I'm fine. But, it seems we have Garou in our town."
"Ohhhhh, OK. Eleanor told me about The Garou Nation a while back. I couldn't believe werewolves were actually real, too."
Maya snorts, "Crazy, huh."
"Yeah. Did you see them or something?"
"Nope. But it's a long story, Lucile. I...I just miss you so freaking much."
"I miss you too, Maya."
The timer is on its last few seconds.
Maya bites her lip, "I love you, Lucile. Stay safe out there, OK?"
Lucile warmly smiles, "I will. You stay safe, too, Maya. I love you."
"B...Bye."
The timer ends and the feed goes offline.
Maya sighs as a disappointed look comes across her face. 90 seconds. 90 seconds to talk to Lucile every night.
It's just not enough time. She closes the laptop lid as a few tears of blood roll down her cheeks.
Maya wipes her face and dryly says, "I should probably get ready for tonight."
She stands up and walks over to the window. She opens it to let some fresh air in.
She stretches as her thoughts drift off.
Maya then goes back downstairs and combs her hair. She runs the comb through her long, red hair, which reaches down to her shoulders. She looks in the mirror and smiles at her reflection.
She goes back upstairs and grabs her bike keys. She wants to get used to riding her old Vespa again.
Her first task (as given to her by Prince Lucas) for tonight involves looking more into the place where that Caitiff courier was destroyed.
Her second task will have her (likely) working with Sheriff Eunice to investigate the Garou attack on the garage and their reasons for attacking the Ravnos.
As Maya grabs the house keys, she hears an SUV pulling up.
She then hears a loud knock on the door. She furrows her brow and walks to the front door. She opens it.
There's her Sire, Eleanor, standing there. She's wearing a black ankle-length skirt and a beige blouse. Her gray hair is tied back into a bun. She's carrying a small bag.
Maya gives her a confused look, "Eleanor? What are you doing here?"
Eleanor simply asks, "May I come in, Childe?"
Maya chuckles and welcomes Eleanor in, "Of course, of course."
Eleanor sits on the sofa and Maya sits next to her.
Eleanor starts by asking, "How fares your training so far, Maya?"
Maya shrugs, "I haven't had as much time as I'd like but I'm slowly getting the hang of things."
Eleanor nods, "Good. Very good. Auspex is a wise choice of Discipline for you, Maya. It's also a very powerful ability to use in our line of work."
Maya's eyes widen, "You think so?"
Eleanor replies, "Yes."
Maya lowers her head, "I...uh...miss Lucile. A lot."
She looks up at Eleanor, "She's gonna be OK, right?" Maya wants the reassurance of her Sire on this.
Eleanor softly says, "She is an excellent Blood Sorceress and her Thaumaturgy skills are quite remarkable for a Neonate. I am confident that she WILL be fine." She places her hand on Maya's shoulder.
Maya smiles, "Thank you, Eleanor. I--I needed to hear that."
Eleanor goes on, "There are some matters we must attend to tonight, however."
"Oh, really? Like...?"
"For starters, I would like for you to meet Miss Nolene. However, she is not of our particular Tremere Society. She is of House Goratrix."
Maya asks, "Cool, cool. So, what's she like?"
"I believe her to be a capable woman."
Maya asks, "So, you won't be teaching me from now on? Nolene is gonna be my teacher or something?"
Eleanor replies, "Not entirely. I will still be teaching you, Maya. It is the responsibility of Sire to Childe. I am merely...getting assistance."
Maya nervously touches the base of her neck, "Am I a uh...tough student, Eleanor?"
Eleanor softly laughs, "You are a quick learner, Maya. That much is certain. You are also quite intelligent, I will give you that--"
Maya says, "I sense a 'but' coming."
Eleanor nods, "But, you are still a Fledgling. There is also the matter of your emotions, Maya. Us Tremere must remain focused at all times. We cannot let our emotions cloud our judgment. Do you understand this?"
Maya replies, "I'll try to keep that in mind. The last few nights have been great, but they've been a bit...tough, too." She looks down.
Eleanor sighs, "You still have not gotten over that...argument with that friend of yours. What was her name..." Eleanor's voice trails off as she tries to recall the name.
Maya lets out a low growl, "Annette. I...I don't want anything to with her. Ever again."
Eleanor replies, "Even I have seen that video, Maya. It could have been wor--"
Maya raises her hands up (only slightly), "Can we please not talk about this, Eleanor. Not right now. N--Not ever. I'm done with her."
Eleanor nods, "Hmph. Very well. For now, we shall focus on our immediate plans for tonight."
Maya asks, "So, what's the plan?"
Eleanor asks, "Has the Prince given you any assignments yet?"
Maya nods her head, "Yep. 2 of 'em. One- look around the place where that Caitiff courier got destroyed."
Maya pauses for a moment.
Eleanor asks, "And what is the second task?"
"Investigate the Garou attack on the garage."
Eleanor frowns, "Hmm. A bit much to ask of a Fledgling, but that is the way it is. You are capable of carrying these tasks out, yes?"
Maya sheepishly nods. She's not sure if there's anything to turn up for the first task and she has absolutely zero idea on how to investigate the Garou attack (where does she even begin?!).
Eleanor notices Maya's distress, "You must learn to banish doubt and uncertainty from your mind, Childe. Also, I needn't remind you of our Clan's Compulsion for Perfectionism, do I?"
Maya responds, "I know, Eleanor. I'm sorry. It's just gonna be hard. I mean, no offence, you're great and all, but Lucile is so much better at reassuring me and stuff."
Eleanor calmly (yet firmly) says, "I have no doubt that she is. But, her duties to the Ivory Tower come first. And so does yours. Now, I can help you further hone your Auspex Discipline. You will undoubtedly need it for the--"
"Time of my Proving. Yeah, I know. Lucile told me about that."
Eleanor sighs, "Hmm."
Maya asks, "How did Lucile do at her Proving?"
Eleanor approvingly says, "Exceptionally well, Maya. She was able to make a stiletto out of her own Vitae."
Maya smiles, "Yep. She showed it to me before she left. You think I'll be able to do that one night?"
Eleanor nods, "I believe so. But, I will not lie to you, it is a difficult undertaking. It takes years of practice to achieve that level of mastery over the Blood."
Maya blandly says, "We got time. We're Kindred after all. Heh."
Eleanor narrows her eyes, "Something is troubling you, Maya. What is it?"
Maya sharply exhales, "You mean apart from my girlfriend being whisked away for courier duty? Or the fact that I can't show my face around town because of--"
She stops herself as she chokes up a bit, "--I'm not like you and Lucile. I'm not super smart or...or whatever. I'm just...me. I was a lifestyle writer for a dying magazine in a small town. Now, I don't even have that anymore."
A few tears of blood roll down Maya's cheeks.
"You mustn't be so harsh, Maya. That was your previous life. The Embrace has given you an opportunity to become more than you ever were."
Maya says, "I know. I'm sorry. I'm just scared. I just don't wanna mess this up."
Eleanor places her hand on Maya's back, "And you won't, Childe. You must be strong. Stronger than you ever were. You are a Tremere now. A member of one of the most prestigious Clans of Kindred Society."
"'Prestigious'? I thought that kind of honor was reserved for Clans Ventrue or Toreador?"
Eleanor dismissively waves her hand, "The Pyramid commands respect wherever it goes."
Maya asks, "What about the others?"
Eleanor replies, "They have their place. But that is not your concern. For now, you MUST focus. Not only on your training but also the tasks given to you by Prince Lucas. If you fail him, then you fail us all."
Maya gulps, "O--OK. I'll try my best."
Eleanor says, "That is all I ask of you, Childe. Now, come, let us go and visit Nolene. She will undoubtedly be glad to see a fresh face."
Maya rubs her chin, "Why didn't we have this discussion on our way to meet Nolene?"
Eleanor bluntly states, "Because there are certain things that I do not wish to discuss in front of my driver, Laszlo."
Maya asks, "Is uh...Laszlo just your driver or is he like your Ghoul or something?"
Eleanor grimaces, "Ghoul? I have already made my position on such creatures clear, Childe. They are nothing but volatile and unpredictable. No, Laszlo is simply my driver. That is all."
Maya asks, "But, he's a mortal. Aren't you worried about, like, a potential Masquerade breach or something?"
Eleanor firmly replies, "My personal affairs and how I conduct them are not your concern, Childe. Lucile never questioned my judgments; I expect you to follow her example."
Maya lowers her head and pensively says, "I'm sorry. It--It won't happen again, Eleanor."
No use arguing with your Sire. Especially an Elder like Eleanor.
Eleanor gives Maya a stern look, "Good. Now, let us go and meet Nolene."
Maya gets up and walks to the door. Eleanor follows suit.
Maya tosses her bike keys away, "Heh, guess I won't be needing these, huh? You have no problems driving me around tonight, Eleanor?"
"Laszlo will be the one doing the driving."
Maya chuckles, "I know, I know. Sorry."
Eleanor asks, "Did I tell you about the Tremere Code yet?"
Maya furrows her brows, "What? Um...no?"
"Hmm. 7 nights after your Embrace, you are to commit to the Tremere Code. It is a simple oath that binds us to our Clan. It is a sacred promise that we all must keep."
Maya nods, "OK. So, what is it? Do I have to do anything special or...?"
Eleanor vaguely says, "In time, Childe. In time. Now, come, let us not linger."
Maya nods and follows Eleanor out.
The 2 get into Eleanor's SUV. Maya sits in the passenger seat. Eleanor sits in the back.
Maya smiles at Laszlo, "Good evening!"
He smiles back as he starts the car, "Hi!"
Eleanor tells him, "The...occult shop, if you please."
Laszlo nods and the SUV drives off into the night. It's a silent drive. Traffic is a bit dense, so what would normally take 15 minutes took them 30-35 minutes to reach.
No words are exchanged. Maya just looks out the window as the night breeze blows through her hair.
Eventually, they arrive at this occult shop. Laszlo parks the car. Maya and Eleanor get out.
Eleanor says, "Nolene is of the Clan, but she is not of Children Of The Pyramid. You will do well to keep that in mind, Childe. As such, your interactions with her must remain strictly professional."
Maya replies, "Gotcha."
Eleanor opens the door and the 2 walk in.
The store itself is dimly lit and smells of incense. There are all sorts of curios, artifacts, and other oddities on display. The carpet is dark brown and quite old. The walls are painted in purple basil.
There's a counter with a cash register and a few shelves behind it. The shelves are stocked full of books, trinkets, and other strange objects. There's also a glass cabinet that contains various occult paraphernalia.
There's a door to the backroom, which is slightly ajar.
Maya taps on the call bell a few times. Eleanor simply shakes her head.
A few moments pass and a Nolene comes out from the backroom. She's wearing a long black dress with flower patterns. Her afro hair is luscious. She's got some tattoos on her dark skin.
She's tall and slender. Her eyes are hazel. She greets the duo with a warm smile on her face.
Maya extends her hand, "Hi! I'm Maya."
"Nice to meet you. I'm Nolene and welcome to Nolene's Corner Of Curiosities!" Her voice is cheerful and energetic.
Maya likes her already.
Eleanor says, "Ms. Nolene. It is good to see you again. I trust that the...object is in a safe place?"
Nolene nods, "Yep. Locked away nice and tight. Ain't nobody getting to it."
Eleanor smiles, "Good."
Maya asks, "What object?"
Eleanor sighs, "That ritual dagger that somehow came into the possession of that Ravnos."
Maya nods, "Ah."
Nolene asks, "Would you 2 like anything to drink?"
Maya replies, "If you're offering what I think you're offering, then I won't say no."
She turns to Eleanor, "If it's OK with you, that is."
Eleanor gestures, "It is of no issue, but you must always be ready to hunt. Very few Kindred have the luxury of such offers."
Nolene chuckles, "I'll get you a cup of red, Maya."
She returns a few minutes later with a large coffee cup full of thick, red blood. One for her and one for Maya. Eleanor politely declines.
Maya holds the cup with both hands as she brings it up to her lips. The Beast in her rouses at the very smell of blood (even if it's not fresh and from the source).
She takes a sip and her eyes widen. She eagerly gulps it all down. Granted, it's not necessarily the tastiest thing she's ever had, but it satiates the Beast's eternal Hunger.
For now.
Some blood drips down Maya's chin. Nolene slowly sips on her cup of blood, savoring every single drop before swallowing more.
Eleanor asks, "So, how is business?"
Nolene shrugs, "It's alright. I mean, you can't complain too much, y'know."
Maya starts to look around the shop as a look of astonishment and curiosity comes across her face.
Eleanor nods, "Yes. I am sure it is a challenge to run a business in such conditions."
Nolene laughs, "Yeah, tell me about it."
Eleanor gestures to Maya, "She is my Childe. I believe I've already told you a little about her, yes?"
Nolene nods, "Yep. Grew up an orphan. Lifestyle writer for Nimbus Magazine. Embraced a few nights back." She looks at Maya, "Miss anything?"
Maya shakes her head, "I guess that covers...most of it. Heh." She continues browsing the shelves.
Eleanor asks, "And how is everything else going?"
Nolene dryly responds, "As well as it usually does on nights like these. You sure you don't want a drink?"
Eleanor shakes her head, "I shall feed later, thank you."
Nolene calls out, "Hey, Maya? You wanna share this with me?" She holds up a cup full of blood.
Maya replies, "Uh...sure." She holds her empty cup as Nolene pours half its contents into it.
Maya takes a sip and her eyes light up, "Wow! That's good!" She slowly drinks more.
Nolene nods, "Hmmm, that's the stuff. Hm!"
Eleanor paces around the shop, stopping to adjust the position of some trinkets and artifacts.
She asks, "How fare the other members of House Goratrix?"
Nolene is caught off-guard by that question and she almost spits out the blood in her mouth, "Uh...yeah, yeah, they're doing all fine. Yep. They're great. Yeah."
Eleanor narrows her eyes, "Are you sure about that, Ms. Nolene?"
Nolene gulps and avoids eye contact, "Um...yeah. I just spoke to them a while back."
Maya looks up at the ceiling and around the place. She asks, "So, how long have you been a Tremere, Nolene?"
Nolene replies, "Oh, not too long. Since the 90s, I guess."
Maya asks, "So, what's it like being a Tremere?"
Nolene replies, "It's pretty dope, actually. You get to learn all kinds of crazy spells and...stuff. Yeah, it's been a fun ride, that's for sure."
Maya asks, "What about the other Houses? What are they like?"
Nolene nervously chuckles, "They're all pretty much the same, I guess. I--I mean, it's kind of a jumbled up mess at the moment. Right, Eleanor?"
Eleanor dryly responds, "Hmmm, yes." She seems to be staring out the window, lost in thought.
Nolene changes the subject, "So, how's Lucile doing? I heard she's doing courier work now?"
Maya replies, "Yep, she's doing great. I--"
Nolene asks, "So, you 2 are dating, huh?"
Maya slowly nods, "Yep. We're...in love."
Nolene smiles, "That's great! I'm happy for you 2. Lucile always did seem a bit reserved when I met her."
Maya smiles, "Yeah, she's a sweetheart. I--I miss her so much right now."
Nolene says, "I'm sure you do, Maya. She'll be back before you know it."
Maya gives a tight-lipped smile to Nolene.
They spend a few more minutes in idle chatter.
Eleanor interjects, "Ms. Nolene, I am afraid I must leave now. I have other matters to attend to."
Nolene nods, "Sure. You taking Maya with or--"
Maya asks, "Is it OK if I hand around here for a while? Please, Eleanor?"
Eleanor gives her Childe a stern look, "You must focus on your training, Childe. And your tasks."
Maya frowns a bit, "Yeah. I guess you're right."
Nolene asks, "How 'bout tomorrow night?"
Maya responds, "I'd love that, Nolene. Is it OK with you?"
Nolene laughs, "Sure. I wouldn't mind the company, actually. Especially with things being as they are right now."
Maya asks, "So, what are you gonna do with that uh...dagger?"
Nolene sighs, "Eleanor's entrusted me with it. I'm supposed to keep it safe until she needs it."
Maya asks, "But, what is it?"
Eleanor is preparing to head out, "It is, as I clearly said before, for certain ritual purposes. Now, come, Maya. We must leave."
Maya follows Eleanor outside. Nolene waves goodbye as the 2 get into the SUV.
Eleanor gets in the back seat and Maya sits in the passenger seat.
Laszlo starts the car and drives off.
Maya says she wants to be dropped off at 5th Street. A couple of blocks north of the old bowling alley.
Laszlo says, "Sure, I know that place!"
He turns the wheel and the SUV makes a U-turn.
Maya maintains her silence and stares out the window.
The SUV stops in front of the old bowling alley. Maya gets out. She gives Laszlo a quick wave and smiles at Eleanor.
Eleanor rolls down her window, "Will there be anything else?"
"Nope, I can handle it from here. And, don't worry, I can find my way back home."
Eleanor looks at her Childe and says, "There are things I can teach you, but you must be willing to learn."
"I am willing, Eleanor."
"Very well. We shall discuss this later. Laszlo, drive. I will tell you where we should go next."
The bowling alley is a bit dark and quiet at this time. The paint is peeling off the walls. There's a broken sign on the roof.
Maya walks up to the front door and finds it locked. She decides to head to the place where the courier met his tragic end.
She hopes to find something, no matter how small, that could help her figure out what happened to him.
She's hoping to find a clue as to why he was attacked. She's even hoping to find out who destroyed him.
She was in for many surprises in the nights to come...
Maya walks around idly for a few minutes, occasionally bending over to look at the ground. She doesn't see anything out of the ordinary.
She then decides to take a look around the alley itself. She happens upon a pair of garbage dumpsters that have recently been emptied. A few flies and roaches still buzz around.
She grimaces and takes a few steps back. She notices an abandoned building nearby and decides to check it out.
As she's making her way there, she stops in her tracks as she feels the hairs on the back of her neck stand up.
Her eyes widen as she hears...voices. Whispers. Numerous whispers. Coming from all around.
She creeps up to the front door and sees that it's been boarded up recently. The windows have been covered up with blackout film.
Weird.
The abandoned building is about 5 stories tall. It's made of stone and brick. There's a few broken windows and some graffiti on the walls.
Maya stands there and scratches her head, not entirely sure of what to do next.
The whispers get louder. Thousands of tiny voices all around her.
Maya winces a bit.
She crouches and touches the ground. She decides to use her Auspex Discipline.
Perhaps the others missed something in their initial search?
Maya calms herself, shuts her eyes, and focuses. She tries to clear her mind and listen.
She hears...nothing. She opens her eyes and sees that nothing has changed.
The whispers seemed to have faded away (for the time being).
She sighs and shakes her head. She closes her eyes once more and tries to channel her Vitae into her Discipline.
She can feel the energy coursing through her veins. She feels it in her hands. She feels it in her eyes.
She concentrates as her eyes glow in a strange bluish-white hue.
She can see everything now. Far beyond what the mortal eye can see. She can see the dust particles floating around. She can see the littlest cracks in the walls.
She can see a few cigarette butts carelessly discarded on the ground.
She can see rats scurrying around a particular dumpster, nibbling on...something behind it.
"Whoa..."
She makes her way to the pair of dumpsters and shoos the rats away. She tenses her muscles as she grabs the dumpster's rusty handles.
She moves it to the side and finds a briefcase lying there!
She gasps and covers her mouth.
The briefcase is covered in a thick, disgusting layer of filth and who knows what else.
Maya's expression is one of disgust. She picks up the briefcase and holds it away from her face.
The briefcase has a 4-dial combination lock. The dials are currently locked. But, she can see the contents of the briefcase through her Auspex- it's just piles of papers.
She can't quite tell if anything is written on them or not.
Maya spots a rag cloth hanging on the wall. She picks it up and tries to clean the briefcase up a bit.
She grimaces and winces, "Ew, ew, ew, ew," as she scrubs it against the rough fabric. Eventually, the case looks passable.
Not perfectly clean, but not disgustingly filthy.
Still, Maya can't help but wonder to herself what the 4-digit combination is...and why would someone go through all the trouble of covering up their tracks like this?
Maya's eyes still have that otherworldly glow to them. She decides to just look around the place a bit more.
The whispers start up again. It's slow and barely audible at first, but it gets more overwhelming as time goes on.
Just then, Maya notices a large...figure. About 8 feet tall. She squints and notices what look like horns. The figure is either a massive shadow or shrouded in darkness.
The figure stands still and just stares at her, its totally blank face sending shivers down Maya's undead spine. She gasps and takes a few steps back, nearly tripping over her own feet.
The unknown creature stands there in the distance, watching Maya. The whispers are getting louder and louder. The ground underneath her feet feels strangely unstable.
Maya's vision returns back to normal. Her eyes go back to the way they were.
She squints in the general direction of where that creature was and sees...nothing.
A hallucination brought on by staying too long in Auspex, perhaps?
Either way, that's enough excitement for one night. Maya holds the briefcase and heads to the nearby bus stop.
The Prince is definitely gonna wanna see what she found!
Since she has no way of contacting him (or Sheriff Eunice), she decides to swing by the abandoned auditorium where the Clan reps usually have their meetings.
Maybe someone's still lurking around there at this time of the night?
Due to slightly denser traffic, the bus ride is a bit longer than expected.
On the bus, Maya holds onto the briefcase and gets a few looks from the other passengers. Some cover their noses while others have a rather sour expression on their face.
Can't blame 'em.
Maya politely smiles and sits all the way in the back, hoping that no one will recognize her after...the incident.
She lowers her head and sighs. She can't help but feel nervous.
It's a relatively long distance from the bus stop to the abandoned auditorium.
After "some" time, the bus arrives at another stop. Maya decides to walk to the auditorium. She can't afford to miss this opportunity to make a good impression on the Prince.
She gets off and sees a few buildings lined up along the road. A few street lamps provide some light.
She walks and walks. After about 15 minutes, she arrives at the abandoned auditorium.
She looks up at the large, rundown building, still holding tight onto the briefcase.
As expected, the front door is locked and chained up. Same with the side doors.
Maya sighs.
The Prince and his people are likely busy with something else at the moment, it would seem.
Maya decides to wait around for...5 minutes. Max. After that, she's calling it a night and going back to her Haven.
So, she waits.
And waits.
She pulls out her phone and takes a quick selfie for no reason other than a few extra minutes of her own amusement. Besides, it'd be a good picture to send to Lucile.
Maya stands around and thinks to herself. The last few nights have seen her "life" take quite the turn.
She paces back and forth, deep in contemplation.
Looks like they're a no-show.
Maya throws her hands up in the air and decides to return to the lovely cottage she (and Lucile) now call home.
She walks away, feeling a tad bit disappointed.
The bus ride back is quick enough. The few other passengers are mostly sleeping against the windows.
Maya arrives back at the cottage and lets herself in. She looks at the briefcase and groans in disgust.
It needs a good cleaning. She heads to the kitchen, grabs a sponge and some dishwasher liquid, and cleans the briefcase up.
Still not satisfied, she grabs some shampoo and a scrubbing brush and gets to work.
"Blugh. Disgusting..."
Eventually, the briefcase is clean enough to be called presentable (save for a few rat nibble marks on the edges).
And yet, she is STILL not satisfied. That Tremere Clan Compulsion for Perfectionism is starting to manifest itself.
She growls and looks around the cottage for anything else that can be used to clean up the damn briefcase.
She ends up finding an old rag, which she uses to wipe the case down.
"Hmph. Better than nothing, I guess..."
Maya inspects the briefcase and breathes a sigh of relief.
She sets it on the counter and sits down, her mind still on the strange whispers and the strange creature she saw earlier.
Her thoughts go back to Lucile. She wonders how she's doing. What has she been doing? Does she miss Maya?
She shakes her head. She knows the answer. Of course, she does.
Maya pulls out her phone and decides to look up some info about opening up 4-dial combination lock briefcases.
Not the most ideal thing to be looking up on the Internet, but desperate times and all.
She uses Incognito Mode just to be safe.
She comes across a few articles and videos about how one might go about trying to open a 4-digit combination lock.
"Hm. Well, seems pretty straight-forward, actually."
Although, that doesn't seem to be the case (no pun intended). She tries a supposed "reset code" and still cannot open the lock.
"Hm, hm."
She tries a few more ideas and still nothing.
She tries one more. And nothing.
She decides on something more...direct. Now that she's a vampire, her strength is greatly magnified. She can easily break the briefcase in half with relative ease.
"Grrrr. Unghh!"
Maya tries to pry the case open with her bare hands but to her surprise, it doesn't budge. It seems even a vampire's preternatural strength cannot crack open this case.
In frustration, she pushes the briefcase away, "Fuck!"
She decides now would be a great time for some music to get her mind off things.
She decides on something soothing and relaxing. She listens to her favorite singers for a good 40 minutes or so, allowing the music to make its way into her subconscious.
After that, she feels...calm and relaxed.
For the remainder of her night, she cozies herself up on the couch and gets to reading that complicated, wordy tome about Auspex. It's the Discipline she chose to specialize in, so she might as well try and understand it.
As she's flipping through the pages, her mind keeps going back to that...large creature she saw. She's also wondering to herself if she's slowly losing her mind.
Is the pressure of becoming a Kindred starting to get to her already?
She can't quite get the image of that thing out of her head. Was it simply covered in shadows or a shadowy being of some sort?
It was clearly no mere hallucination brought on by her Auspex. No, it was...real.
But, why didn't it move towards her or attack her? Why did it just stand there and...stare at her ominously?
She rubs her forehead and tries her best to push the images away. At least, she found the briefcase, so this night isn't a total waste!
Also, she met Nolene and she seems like a genuinely nice person. Maya decides to get to know her a bit more.
She returns her attention back to the book and keeps reading through it. There are a few other books that Eleanor left with Maya, but she has no interest to read those, too.
The tome she's reading is a decent enough read (once you get past the overly flowery language). It's a complex but intriguing study into the mysteries of the Auspex Discipline.
Well, most of them anyway. One mere tome doesn't even begin to cover a Discipline as vast as Auspex!
And as such, she spends a good 2 hours reading and trying her best to comprehend the deep concepts detailed within the pages. A very rigorous process!
The hours go by quickly. It's almost 2 AM! Maya folds the tip of the page she's on so she remembers where to continue reading from.
Since sunrise isn't for another 4 or so hours, Maya grabs her laptop and plugs the charger in a nearby socket.
She spends a few minutes absentmindedly scrolling through Pinterest.
Later, she decides now would be a great time to start looking for a job. She always believed that Nimbus was gonna be a long-term thing, but that was before her life was turned upside down.
Maya logs onto a job search site and goes through a few listings.
"Hm, hm, hmm." She's got a few saved. Her résumé is something that hasn't been updated in...quite a while.
She groans and continues searching for any job that matches her particular skillset (which, to be fair, isn't much).
After about an hour or so of surfing through these sites, she gives up. She sighs and shakes her head. She decides to take a short break and look at some news websites.
A few headlines catch her attention. There are numerous reports of the McMahon mansion fire.
Another headline catches her attention: "CEO Of Vespire Inc. Found Dead In Beverly Hills Home."
She reads more. Apparently, the CEO of the Vespire Inc was found dead in his home. Details are sparse, but it mentions signs of a struggle. The police say the suspect or suspects are still at large.
"Huh. Weird..."
She then decides to check out that subreddit where the Vespire documents were leaked on a few nights back.
It seems the same user, JimBdo_VKM, has been quite busy. They've recently leaked 2 more documents pertaining to Vespire's affairs.
They're both PDFs and look like company financials.
There's a message posted on the subreddit (by JimBdo_VKM) that goes on for paragraphs. It is absolutely unhinged. The grammar is the least of one's concerns- it is a rant about the most inane things imaginable.
Maya chuckles as she downloads the documents and copies them over to her phone. She decides a businessman like Arman would probably be able to make more sense of this kind of stuff.
So, she sends the 2 documents (which are 4 MB each) to Arman's WhatsApp number.
For reasons that should be apparent, Arman doesn't immediately reply.
She shrugs and decides to go back to idly browsing the web.
A few hours go by and the sun starts creeping up. Maya closes her laptop and yawns.
She stretches her arms and gets up from the couch. She quickly closes the curtains and heads downstairs to her bedroom.
She gets out of her clothes and plops herself down on her side of the bed.
The last thing on her mind as she slowly succumbs to the day-sleep is Lucile- the love of her Unlife.
Arman and Ginny inevitably succumb to the day-sleep as well, naked and wrapped up in each other's arms after an intense bout of lovemaking.
Soon, the sun is up in all its glory and the another night has finally come to an end.
Chapter 13: Convergence Of Factors
The sun's rays beam down on the town of Plaintry. The Kindred are asleep. Mortals, meanwhile, rise to face another day of work, family, and other fairly mundane affairs.
It's now 11 AM. Special Agent Higgins seems to have fallen asleep in his temporary office. He's seated behind the desk. His head is resting on his arms. He's snoring lightly.
There's a knock on the door. Higgins jumps and looks around, slightly startled. He beckons whoever it is to enter.
A man in a tight short-sleeved shirt and jeans walks in. He's well-built. He sports a short haircut and has dark brown eyes. Tattoos of skulls and knives cover his arms. He has a short beard and mustache.
He's also a pistol in his holster.
"Special Agent Higgins?" he asks.
Higgins sits up and greets the man, "Yes," he extends his hand, "And you are?"
"I'm Jack. Jack Torgerson." He firmly shakes Higgins's hand, "The tac teams you requested have arrived, sir. They're waiting for your orders."
"Ah, good, good. And they've been briefed on the situation?"
"Yes, sir. Potential blank body activity in this town. They know what they're looking for. We can start the sweep when you're ready."
Higgins nods, "Good. Very good. We'll proceed according to protocol. These are some sneaky sonsa bitches we're dealing with here."
Jack smiles, "Oh, I know, sir. I know. But, if they're this town, we'll find them."
Higgins weakly smiles, "Good. I requested multiple tac teams because I believe a blank body could be anywhere in this town. Which Team you with, son?"
Jack straightens his back and responds, "I'm the leader of Team Omega, sir."
Higgins grabs his FBI windbreaker and puts it on, "Good, good. You eat anything yet, son?"
"Yes sir. A protein shake."
Higgins snorts as he holds back a laugh, "I'll need to wash up a bit, then we'll go and grab us some real food. There's a diner nearby."
"I'll meet you there, sir."
Higgins nods, "OK, OK."
Jack nods his head and leaves the room.
Higgins wastes no time and proceeds to the bathroom to wash his tired face. He gargles some mouthwash, then fixes his hair in the mirror.
He thinks to himself about how he's gotten to this point. It's been a few weeks since the raids down south. Since then, it's mostly been chasing empty leads.
Ms. Nicolaides, his "boss" (of sorts), is keeping him on a tight leash, though. But, it's still his operation since he's on the ground, leading it.
While Ms. Nicolaides sits in her comfy office ordering these people around, Higgins is the one out in the field, making sure things are done right.
Like Kindred Society, the Second Inquisition is full of petty squabbles, power plays, factional disputes, schisms, and such.
Some FBI agents are walking about, going through their papers, chatting with one another, and checking their gear.
One of them spots Higgins and walks up to him, "Hey, Special Agent Higgins?"
"Yeah?"
"Why'd you call ask for multiple tac teams to come up here?"
Higgins, still a bit groggy, replies, "I'm not takin' chances. We got blank bodies around. So, I'm getting every single available field asset I can get my hands on."
"But, isn't there a risk that, you know, someone's gonna report us to...the boss lady?"
Higgins scoffs, "It's MY OP and I'll run it as I see fit. Besides, she ain't here. She's too busy hiding out at that...place. No, no. Don't worry. She's too busy doing...whatever the hell she does."
"Oh. Um, OK. You think we can contain the threat, sir?"
"I hope so. You saw what happened to the McMahons?"
"Y--yes, sir."
"Messed up, ain't it?"
"7 seconds of footage hardly qualifies as evidence, but, yeah, it was pretty...scary."
Higgins nods, "We gotta flush 'em out and deal with 'em."
"I--It's just gonna be Response Level 1, right? I've heard stories about what they do at higher Response Levels."
Higgins places his hand on the FBI agent's shoulders, "Let's pray it doesn't come to that."
The FBI agent gulps, "Y--yeah."
Higgins feels his stomach growl and thinks to himself that he needs to eat something. He decides to head out to the nearby diner for a bite.
Might as well call it..."brunch" at this time of the day.
Higgins then approaches a few analysts and techs hunched over their computers, looking over something or the other.
He asks, "Did y'alls get the file I requested?"
One of the female analysts nods her head, "Yes sir. Shall I fax it over to you?"
"Yes. And email it to me."
"Will do, sir." She types some stuff on her keyboard and sends the file over to Higgins's computer.
Higgins goes to the nearby fax machine and taps his foot as he waits for the the file on Maya to print out. Once it does, he grabs it and quickly peruses through it.
His expression doesn't change as he looks over her info. It doesn't take him long.
"Hmmmph. Interesting..."
He mutters a few words under his breath and decides to read the rest of it at the diner.
Jack is waiting in the lobby area of this building that the SI is using as their de-facto headquarters. He's sitting on a chair and keeping his eyes peeled for Higgins.
He notices the man approaching him and stands up.
Higgins puts on his aviators and looks at Jack, "You joinin' me, son?"
Jack nods, "Only if you're buying, sir." He smiles.
Jack proceeds to introduce Higgins to the other members of Team Omega.
Some shake hands with the Higgins, while others are busy tucking away long wooden stakes and small arms in large black crates.
At the diner, they all sit at a large table and have brunch. They order some coffee and sandwiches. They chill there for a bit.
Most of them don't talk. Higgins orders his food to go. He asks Jack, "So, your people ready for a fight?"
Jack confidently replies, "Absolutely, sir. It's not our first rodeo. We know what we're up against. And once we know our targets, they'll be dealt with."
Higgins takes a sip of his coffee (black, no sugar) and nods, "That's what I like to hear."
He gestures over to Jack's people, "And your people? They reliable? Are they the real deal?"
"Oh yeah. They're the real deal, sir. And don't worry about them. I've worked with most of them before. We've got DEA, FBI, ATF, and ICE agents with us."
He smiles, "I'd even go so far as to say they're the best damn team I've ever had the privilege of leading, sir."
Higgins asks, "They ever...engage a blank body before?"
"Yes, sir. Flamed a few down south. Shoulda seen the looks on their faces when the stakes went in!"
He chuckles, "They don't call us the best for nothing, sir." He laughs heartily. The others at the table join in. Some raise their mugs of beer to him.
Higgins laughs, "Well, I'll be damned." He takes a sip of his coffee and stands up. "Let's get this show on the road."
Jack asks, "So, what are your orders, sir?"
"Until we get more actionable intel, your orders are to be ready. For anything, at anytime, anywhere."
Jack nods, "Understood, sir."
Higgins sighs as he gets up, "I gotta go talk to a...person of interest."
Jack asks, "Do you need any help...retrieving this person, sir?"
Higgins looks around and chuckles, "Oh, no, no. It's just a friendly lil talk. I'll be fine, son."
He takes the folder and leaves. Higgins grabs his egg sandwich and heads to his car. He starts it up and makes his way to Maya's old address.
The drive is quick and fairly uneventful. The sun bathes everything in a bright yellow glow.
Maya's old apartment still looks the same from the outside. Higgins steps in the elevator as he takes another bite of his egg sandwich. A small child stands next to him in the elevator and looks up at him, all wide-eyed and curious.
He looks down at the small child and says nothing. He continues eating in silence as the elevator ascends to Maya's floor.
Just as the elevator stops, the small child bolts out of there. Higgins, sandwich still in hand, strides to what he believes is Maya's old apartment.
The door is closed shut. So, he knocks on it a few times.
No answer.
He knocks harder and raises his voice, "Miss Maya! Special Agent Higgins, FBI. I would like to speak with you about something!"
Just then, Maya's old landlady awkwardly hobbles towards him.
She angrily snaps at him, "The fuck you making that loud racket for?!"
Higgins pulls out his badge and presents it to her.
She squints and groans, "The fuck did that dumb broad do now, huh?"
"That's what I'm hoping to ask her. Do you know--"
The landlady interrupts, "Bitch moved outta here."
"Do you know where--"
She rudely interrupts, "Don't know. Memory's a bit foggy. And frankly, I don't care."
She snorts, "Dumb broad always skipped out on her rent."
Higgins asks, "When did you last see her?"
She shrugs, "Who gives a shit? She's gone. That's all you need to know, Special Agent Whatever. I've got no reason to keep track of her. I've actually got a few potential tenants to show her old place to."
She walks off without saying much else. Higgins frowns and scratches his head, "Well, this was a damn waste of time."
He decides that there's nothing much else that can be done right now. He heads for the elevator and presses the down button.
As he's waiting, he reads through Maya's file again. He chuckles a few times and shakes his head.
"Beautiful red hair..."
Higgins decides that the best course of action now is to head back to his office and wait until one of the vampires slip up.
It's bound to happen sooner rather than later.
On the other side of town...
A few black SUVs have parked outside Arman's Haven.
A tall, heavyset woman wearing a sharp gray suit approaches the mansion's front doors. She looks around as she walks towards the front door.
She rings the doorbell and patiently waits.
The Ventrue is, of course, day-sleeping with a very beautiful Lasombra woman next to him, far from his own Haven.
Rolf answers the door. He asks, "Ja? Can I help?"
The woman introduces herself, "Ashleigh Meadows. Gen 4 Security. Is Mr. Rajakrishnan home?" Her British accent is sharp and clear.
Rolf seems quite flustered, "Um, no. He is not."
Ashleigh furrows her brow, "I see. Do you know when he will return, then?"
"Ja."
She directly asks, "And when is that, Mister..."
"Rolf. Arman's bodyguard."
They both exchange a tight handshake.
Rolf continues, "He will return in evening."
"I shall return in the evening, then."
Ashleigh looks at Rolf and smirks, "I guess we'll be working together, yeah?"
Rolf nods, his expression totally blank.
Ashleigh heads back to her SUV and drives off as the other SUVs follow her.
Rolf watches the black SUVs leave and returns inside.
Arman's Gen 4 Security detail is officially active. 2.5 million dollars well spent, or so he hopes.
While in her SUV, Ashleigh is speaking on the phone. She's talking to her boss, "Yes, ma'am. We are on schedule. No, we haven't run into any trouble. Yes, I'm aware of the client's rather peculiar request for silver ammunition."
She softly chuckles and goes on, "Of course, ma'am. Yes, you too. Goodbye."
She hangs up and sighs. A man hands her a tablet and says, "On-ground intelligence reports influx of various American national security agencies around the area, Ms. Meadows."
Ashleigh asks, "Will this interfere with our operation?" She looks at the tablet and continues, "Hm. Either way, I hope our client won't get us in a situation that requires we...engage with government agents."
The man replies, "I'm sure we can handle whatever comes our way. After all, that's what we're paid for."
She shakes her head, "This Arman seems to be an interesting fellow. Let's just hope he isn't too...eccentric like all our other clientele. Heh. Let's hope not."
Little did these mere pawns know...
Afternoon turns to evening as the sun slowly recedes into the horizon.
As such, it signals the Kindred to awaken from their long and rejuvenating morning-slumber.
Ginny's eyes flutter open. She's still lying on her bed, naked. Her head is on Arman's chest. She sleepily smiles at him and snuggles up against him. He looks at her and smiles back, gently running his fingers through her messy blonde hair.
He sighs, "Another night, my dear. Another lovely night."
Ginny lets out a long yawn and kisses him on his neck, "I can't wait to do this again, Arman."
He gently caresses her cheek and replies, "Of course. I can't quite believe I was able to...keep it up. And for so long, too."
Ginny giggles, "I'm not complaining, Casanova." She presses her cold, naked body against his.
She continues, "Besides, I enjoyed myself, too. You were pretty damn incredible."
He looks up at the ceiling and absorbs her compliment, "Why, thank you, Miss Bane."
Ginny looks up at him and asks, "Is...this a long-term thing, Arman? Or was it just--"
Arman places his finger on Ginny's lip, "Shhh. It'll be for however long we decide. We're Kindred, after all. Time is merely a...suggestion for us. It's meaningless. One night, one million nights, what difference does it make?"
There's a longing look in Ginny's dead eyes. She lets out a sigh and nods, "You're right. I...just wanted to be sure."
Arman softly chuckles, "No need to rush, my dear. Just relax. Most of the pieces are already in place, all we have to do is move the remaining few."
He gets out of bed and begins to dress, "The rest will fall in place in due time. You have my word."
He puts his shirt on and buttons it as Ginny props herself up with her elbows, "Alright. You've made a pretty convincing case so far, Arman."
Ginny looks at Arman from head to toe while he dresses up, "So, you want me to talk to the Malkavian? Get her to--"
Arman turns his head, "As I said, there's a strong case to be made AGAINST having a Ravnos as a Prince. I believe we should start by looking at other options, though."
Ginny furrows her brow and sits up in bed, "Y'know, that's the thing. Once Lucas is dusted, who's gonna take Praxis?"
Arman shrugs, "I do not know. I suppose it'll be whoever is...next in the hierarchy."
Ginny thinks for a few seconds, "So, that'd mean...Sheriff Eunice would be the most legitimate candidate for Prince of Plaintry."
"That would appear to be the case, my dear."
Ginny grimaces, "Ya sure she'll be a good fit??"
Arman responds, "She has already served as Sheriff under 2 Princes- Geoffrey Calhoun and Lucas...what's that man's last name? I seem to have--"
Ginny says, "Nicolaides. Lucas Nicolaides. Funny name, heh."
Arman smiles, "Yes, yes. Well, she served under Geoffrey for quite some time, it would seem."
Ginny directly asks, "Ya really want a Lunatic as the next Prince, Arman?"
Arman replies, "The Clan Of the Moon may be...unhinged. But, they might be more suitable for a laid-back town like Plaintry."
Ginny lets out a sigh, "I guess I'll just have to believe you."
Arman gives her an almost sad look and asks, "Have I ever let you down, my dear?"
Ginny softly chuckles, "So far, nope. Let's hope it stays that way...pretty boy." She bites her lip and suggestively strokes her breasts.
Arman steps closer, "As you wish, my dear. As you wish."
A naughty smile creeps onto Ginny's face. She grabs him by the neck and pulls the partially-dressed Ventrue down for a kiss. He gives in and passionately kisses her.
The 2 of them make out in bed, savoring each other's undead bodies once more. Eventually, Arman backs away as his hands begin to wander around Ginny's body.
He looks at the Lasombra with that usual warm (yet lustful) gaze he reserves only for her, "I should be going now."
Ginny wipes a bit of lipstick off his face and responds, "Next week?"
"Hmmm?"
She playfully pushes him, "Another date night, dummy! Me, you, and a couple of your Blood Dolls, y'know."
"Ah, yes." He gets up and finishes buttoning his shirt, "I shall arrange something."
Ginny lies back and arches her back as she stretches her legs. She folds her arms behind her head, "Mmmm. I can't wait."
Arman smiles as he finishes up, "I'm sure it'll be lovely."
Ginny gets up and adjusts his collar. She pushes his hair back a bit. Arman gently kisses her on her forehead.
She whispers, "Let's hope no one throws a wrench in our plans, Arman."
Arman jokingly says, "You know plenty about wrenches, don't you? Virginia Bane, car mechanic."
Ginny frowns, "I'm serious, Arman. We've worked long and hard to get where we are. And it's all gonna get fucked if we're not...up to snuff."
"And I trust you to see that I am indeed...up to snuff." Arman strokes her chin and looks deeply into her dead eyes. He lingers on his reflection in her pupils for a few seconds before smiling.
Arman continues, "Do your part, Magister, and I shall do mine."
She gives him a gentle kiss on his cheek and lets him go. She nods, "You betcha."
He adjusts his cuffs and looks around Ginny's bedroom, "Not a single mirror or remotely reflective surface. It's quite...quaint, isn't it?"
Ginny thinks to herself for a bit, "Uh, yeah. I got tired of seeing distorted-me in the fucking mirrors all the time, so I pulled 'em out."
"I hope our portrait from last night turned out to your liking."
Ginny shyly giggles, "I um...love it! I--I really do. Thanks, Arman!"
"You're very welcome. Perhaps one night, I shall have a world-renowned artist paint you from...head to toe."
Ginny stares blankly, "Wow, that would be...something."
Arman reassures her, "You're a very beautiful woman, Virginia. You might not be able to see that, others might not appreciate it, but I do."
Ginny remarks, "Ya really know how to butter people up, you know that?"
He smirks and replies, "You're different, Ginny. I've come to genuinely enjoy your company."
Ginny flirtatiously slaps his butt, "Mmmm. Me too, handsome."
He nods, "I shall see you later, then?"
"Yeah, I got some shit to take care of tonight. See ya."
Arman heads downstairs and waits for Rolf to arrive. The Ghoul should be here at any moment.
Meanwhile, Arman sits on Ginny's couch and turns on his phone. It takes a bit longer to boot up. He remarks to himself, "Time to buy a new one, perhaps?"
After a few seconds, the phone is up and running. The device has many unread texts, emails, and messages.
Arman checks his WhatsApp messages and notices the documents Maya sent over along with the following message: "Sorry if I'm disturbing u. Just thought u might be able to make more sense of these than I could. Thnx!"
Arman frowns and decides to forward the 2 PDFs to Lenny.
Lenny comes online a few seconds later. He replies: "Jeez, just woke up. WTF did you send me now??"
Arman replies: "More documents pertaining to Vespire Inc, I believe."
Lenny messages back: "I'll look @ it later. BTW, it's official. He's coming to town tomorrow afternoon."
Arman exhales and taps on the virtual keyboard: "So, what's our plan?"
Lenny responds after a few moments: "I'll tell him that one of Plaintry's more...important residents wishes to meet him before the whole Nimbus thing. He won't say no."
Arman types back: "Are you sure he won't?"
Lenny replies: "Kid's got a massive fucking ego. Loves the attention and spotlight. I think he'll be intrigued. As far as he knows, you're just some potential investor or something, so it should be no big deal."
Arman nods as his fingers glide across the virtual keyboard: "Fair enough. Arrange the meeting, Leonard. Tomorrow evening, my place."
Lenny replies: "Will do. Keep your phone on. You might get one or one hundred DMs from this clown. You know what you gotta do once he's in your place."
Arman furrows his brows and taps on the screen: "Yes, yes, I do. Just have the 6 million ready once it's over."
Lenny replies with 2 thumbs-up emojis.
2 minutes later, Arman hears a knock on the door.
Rolf!
Arman puts his phone away while Ginny answers the door. She greets Rolf, "Yeah, yeah, I got him all nice and wrapped up for you, big guy. Take care of him, ya hear?"
Rolf merely nods. He enters her Haven and looks at his Domitor, who is standing in the living room with a pleased expression on his face.
Arman asks, "Rolf, I trust you were able to dispose of the body from last night?"
"Yes, master."
"Good. Excellent. And how about the other 2 ladies? How are they doing?"
"Fine."
Arman glances at Ginny and smiles.
Ginny takes Arman's hand in hers, "I guess this is...goodbye. For now."
Arman puts his phone away, "Yes, my dear. I will see you tomorrow night. There is still more to...discuss."
Ginny sarcastically remarks, "Hmph, right. 'Discuss'. We...had a fun time, Arman." She gently squeezes his hand, "See you tomorrow." She lets go and watches Rolf walk out with Arman.
It's time to start making moves.
Rolf opens the passenger door for Arman and drives him back to his Haven. The Ghoul also tells his master that the Gen 4 Security detail has arrived.
Arman smirks and says nothing as the rest of the ride home is spent in relative silence.
Arman says, "I shall need to feed when we return. Please prepare someone before this Miss Meadows woman arrives."
Rolf slowly nods, "Ja."
Arman notices a look of uneasiness on his Ghoul's face. He says, "Don't worry, Rolf, I'm not replacing you. You will always be my number-one."
Rolf doesn't react and simply focuses on the road.
Arman places a hand on Rolf's broad shoulder and says, "For now, at least. I've been good to you, have I not, hmmm?"
Rolf nods in agreement.
Arman adds, "You're not going to start doubting me now, are you? At a time when things are slowly converging on their inevitable outcome."
Rolf sighs and shakes his head, "N...no, mein master." Rolf grips the wheel with more force.
"Good. You know better than most, my friend." Arman gently pats Rolf on the back and turns to look out the window as he watches the town zip by.
In good time, Arman is back in his Haven. He wipes a bit of fresh blood from the corner of his mouth and smiles to himself.
The Beast within has been satisfied for tonight at least.
Arman takes off his tuxedo and slips into some comfy pajamas. Soft, silky ones. He then plops down on his favorite recliner.
A few moments later, the doorbell rings. Rolf answers it, and there stands none other than Miss Ashleigh Meadows.
Rolf escorts her to where Arman is seated and asks, "Drink, miss?"
"That won't be necessary."
Rolf shrugs and walks off. Miss Meadows walks over to where Arman is. The Ventrue gets up and eyes her from head to toe.
She's in her late-20s. Her face is oval-shaped with a somewhat small mouth. She has piercing dark eyes, and her black hair is done up in a bun. She's wearing the same thing she was wearing in the afternoon.
She has little makeup on- some cheap lipstick and a generous amount of dark eyeliner.
She takes a good, long look around Arman's fancy Haven.
She bows her head and stretches out her hand, "Ashleigh Meadows. Gen 4 Security. It is a pleasure, Mr. Rajakrishnan."
Arman shakes her hand, "Please, call me Arman. 'Mr. Rajakrishnan' is just so...formal, you know? It feels rather stuffy."
She smirks, "Alright, Arman. I will be the head of your security detail until the contract has been completed."
Arman offers her a seat on one of his couches.
She declines and remains standing, "I understand that you had a certain...request regarding the ammunition our operatives shall be carrying. Am I correct?"
"Indeed."
"May I ask why?"
"You may not. Baroness Maybelline Pentham assured me of your firm's discretion, so I believe I do not need to explain myself. Do I?"
Ashleigh pauses and then calmly responds, "You are correct, sir. We value the needs of our clientele."
Arman asks, "And was the silver ammunition hard to come by, Ms. Meadows?"
Ashleigh shakes her head, "No, sir. There's a supplier in New Zealand who provided it."
"Very good. Thank them for their services."
"We're here to ensure you're safe and comfortable, Mr. Arman. Whatever it takes."
Arman leans back and continues, "As you can tell, I am a man of great...wealth and I'm not ashamed of it. That has attracted the disdain of certain individuals and they have gone through great lengths to bring harm to me. They might be after me even now, Ms. Meadows."
Ashleigh nods and waits for Arman to continue.
He goes on weaving this tale of total and utter bullshit, "My bodyguard, however, cannot be relied upon to keep me safe at all times. As such, I hired your firm because you are...more than qualified to deal with such threats."
"Your security team consists of...?"
Ashleigh replies, "Ex-military, former intelligence, mercenaries, the best of the best. The pinnacle of private security services."
Arman chuckles, "Hm. Funny. Maybelline said the exact same thing. No, no, I would like to know more about the men...and women who will be protecting me, Ms. Meadows. It might prove to be a good ice breaker, shall we say."
Ashleigh seems surprised. She replies, "If you insist, sir."
"Oh, I do insist, Ms. Meadows. Please, sit down and tell me all about the members of your team. You've already met Mr. Rolf, my...bodyguard."
Ashleigh nods as she walks to one of the couches and sits down. She sits straight and looks directly into Arman's eyes, her gaze is steady and penetrating.
The 2 get to talking about the specifics of the job, each operative, and so on.
Meanwhile...
Maya is wide awake from her day-sleep. She steps out of a steamy bath and looks at herself in the bathroom mirror.
She wraps herself in a towel and then starts brushing her teeth (fangs, too!). A few minutes later, she walks over to laptop and turns it on.
She hopes that Lucile will be online. She goes to the given link, clicks on it, and patiently waits.
She's assigned a random avatar and username, just like last time.
"PLZ W8..."
Moments later, another user joins the session. The video feed goes through a few glitches and flickers. Once the signal stabilizes, Maya lets out a happy sigh.
It's Lucile!
Her hair is neat and combed. She's wearing a denim jacket and a black shirt underneath. She has a cheerful look on her face as she looks into the camera.
Lucile waves, "Hey, hey, hey! How's my pretty poinsettia doing this evening?"
Maya waves back, "I'm OK. And I've been thinking about you a lot, Lucile."
The timer begins its countdown. T-minus 90 seconds.
Lucile replies, "Heh, same here. Every moment away from you is...is worse than a stake in the heart."
She softly laughs and says, "Hehe, OK, maybe not that bad, but...you know what I mean."
Maya nods, "I do."
Lucile asks, "So, how's everything?"
Maya coyly says, "I uh...just stepped outta the shower."
"Ah, did you, now? Mmmm. I'm guessing you're just wearing a towel and not much else, aren't ya?"
Maya giggles, "Mm-hmm. Yeah, that's about right." She twirls her damp hair around her index finger as she stares at Lucile through the monitor.
Lucile chuckles, "When I finally get back, I might catch you with your towel on the floor. Y'know, hehe."
Maya smiles as she feels the blood rushing to her cheeks. She thinks of all the...fun things they're going to do when they finally get to see each other.
Lucile's face becomes more serious as she clears her throat. She says, "Anyways, time's running out, so I'm gonna be leaving the town I'm in soon enough."
Maya nods.
"Look, I don't know if I can make it back in a few weeks or a few months. But, I promise to come back as soon as possible, sweetie."
Maya sighs and asks, "Do you know where they're sending you next?"
Lucile shakes her head, "Nope. Probably somewhere westward, but no idea on the specifics."
She continues, "Ain't easy being Kindred courier on nights like these. I met another Ravnos named Jean and we chatted a bit."
"Oh?"
"Yeah. Nice person! I was kinda sad to hear how they got into the whole courier thing."
"Hmmm?"
"You'll meet them soon enough. They should be there in a few nights with that flash drive Prince Lucas wanted decrypted. Hopefully, they make it back to us in one piece."
"That bad, huh?"
Lucile replies, "Yeeeeah. We need every courier we can get, sweetie."
The timer is on its last few seconds.
Lucile hurries up, "Listen. I love you, Maya. Always. Never forget that, OK? I know this has been rough on you. Just remember to stay safe, OK?"
Maya sniffles and says, "I'll be rooting for you. Come back to me, please. I can't go on without you, Lucile."
Lucile smiles as the the timer hits 0.
The video feed cuts and disappears.
Tears of blood roll down Maya's cheek as she looks at the blank screen with a mixture of sadness, anger, and pain in her undead heart.
Maya's loneliness has never felt this crushing before. She begins to wonder what would be left of her without Lucile by her side.
She also spends some time pondering about the state of her Clan as a whole as well as the other Kindred.
She's still a Fledgling, so there's a lot for her to learn.
And there are even greater secrets awaiting her in the shadows.
She shuts down the laptop and closes the lid. She grabs a hairdryer and plugs it in. She looks herself in the mirror and remarks, "Damn. Just...ugh, never mind."
She starts blow-drying her red hair and continues her usual beauty routine. She applies some light makeup to cover up that all-too-familiar deathly paleness that's so prominent on her face and neck.
After all, Kindred are considered clinically dead. This paleness is often mistaken for illness or simply bad lighting.
Maya puts on a hoodie jacket and a pair of casual pants. She checks herself in the mirror. Satisfied with her appearance, she slips into some comfy sneakers.
She then picks up her phone and her keys. Most importantly, she grabs the briefcase and looks it over. She shoves it under her arm and heads out of her cottage. She locks her door.
The Tremere gets on her Vespa scooter and inserts the keys into the ignition. It comes to life and she drives off. She's not entirely sure where to go just yet.
She decides to find a meal first.
She spots a guy in a Hi-Vis vest raking some leaves. He's wearing a cap and dark glasses.
The Beast stirs. Looks like this guy is gonna be tonight's meal.
Maya gets off her scooter and chains the briefcase to it. She casually walks up to him as he continues to rake some leaves into a large pile.
He doesn't even notice her and turns away to continue raking. He seems to be whistling the tune to some popular song.
The Beast is getting more impatient by the minute.
Maya silently creeps up behind him. She then covers his mouth with her hand and pulls him down with her iron grip. His eyes are full of fear as he desperately tries to break free.
Maya's fangs emerge. She quickly sinks them into his neck, drawing some blood. Her eyes glow a bit as she starts draining this man's blood.
The Beast is slowly getting its fill.
After a few blissful seconds, Maya pulls back. The man's breathing is shallow. She quickly notices the bruises forming around the area where she bit him. He looks pretty pale and dazed, too.
Maya feels a twinge of guilt in the pit of her undead stomach.
She proceeds to lick his wound shut. Maya leaves the man lying on the ground, a few meters away from the pile of leaves he had just raked.
She looks at him with concern and walks back to her scooter. She quickly leaves the scene and tries not to look back.
Maya drives off on her scooter. The briefcase is near her feet, on the deck of her Vespa. The gentle evening wind gently blows on her face.
The scent of pine needles and the sound of crickets chirping fills her ears.
A light fog hangs in the air, which she enjoys as well. She starts to hum an upbeat tune to herself and feels a lot better after that.
Her guilt about what happened earlier slowly abates, but is never fully gone.
Especially for Kindred with such high Humanity.
Such is the nature of her Unlife.
Maya decides to go to the abandoned auditorium. The Prince will be interested to see what's in the briefcase that Maya found amidst all the clutter and trash. Perhaps they'll finally find some answers! Or at least...some clues!
Maybe.
Maya slows down as she approaches the auditorium. She leans forward and sees that the door is still locked. There's a man in a worn denim jacket standing nearby.
He's leaning against the wall and drinking blood straight out of a blood bag.
Wow.
He looks at Maya, "What do you want?"
Maya sheepishly waves, "Um...hi."
The man guzzles down the last few drops from his blood bag and approaches Maya, "Sweet ride. Vespa, right?"
Maya nods.
He asks, "You that new Tremere everyone's buzzing about?"
Maya scratches the back of her neck and chuckles nervously, "Um, yeah. I guess."
The man shrugs, "Yeah, Prince Lucas ain't here now. You're too early. Come back at midnight."
Maya says, "OK, sure thing. You're a uh...Ravnos, right?"
He dryly nods. He crumples up the blood bag and shoves it in his backpack.
He looks at her again and asks, "Why?"
"N--No reason. Just curious about your Clan and all."
"Hmmm..."
The man pulls out another blood bag from his backpack, opens it, and offers it to Maya, "Got a buddy who works at a hospital. We trade favors for the bagged stuff. It's the real effin' deal."
Maya politely shakes her head, "I just ate."
He shrugs, "Fair nuff."
Maya says, "But, uh...thanks for the offer." She chuckles awkwardly and looks around. She scratches the back of her head and takes a deep breath.
The Ravnos closes the blood bag and puts it back in his backpack, "See you around. Or not. I dunno." He turns to walk away.
Maya blurts out, "I'm Maya. And you are?"
He simply waves and walks away.
Seeing that she has so much time, Maya decides to go around town for a while. She just has to make sure she doesn't draw too much attention to herself.
She's already in hot water due to certain...happenings.
She revs up her Vespa and decides to just take it nice and easy.
For the first time in a long time, she feels...different.
She's in love, she moved in with said lover, she has new friends, and she even completed a task given to her by the Prince. It feels really...odd. But, it's a nice odd. She enjoys it. For now, at least.
Maya parks her scooter and decides to walk around the town for a while. She wanted to pay Nolene a visit, but she doesn't quite feel up for it just yet.
Maybe after she hands over the briefcase to Prince Lucas?
Anyway, Maya wanders around. She does some window shopping. Cash is a bit tight at the moment and her job prospects aren't the greatest.
Little did this Tremere know about the plans Arman and Leonard had for her.
Maya tries to avoid crowded areas lest anyone recognize her and start badgering her. But, she knows she can't keep herself locked away in her cottage forever.
It's a beautiful Haven, sure, but that's no way to "live" for a Kindred.
She overhears a heated conversation between 2 people.
"I'm tellin' you, that pawn shop is haunted. The stuff they're sellin'?! It ain't right. I told 'em that."
"Ah, shut up, man."
"It's true. I'm telling you, the pawn shop has some bad juju."
"'Bad juju'?! Are you even listening to yourself?! Look, maybe it's your hay fever acting up. Don't let it get to ya, man."
Maya shrugs. She keeps walking as these people continue to argue about something trivial.
She shakes her head and continues wandering around.
After about an hour or so of loitering, Maya decides to sit down for a while on a bench. She takes out her phone and begins scrolling through it.
There's a bunch of text messages from people at her old job. Many are out of genuine concern for her. Few, however, are just filled with all kinds of expletives and slurs.
Yikes.
Maya is startled when she hears a voice speaking to her, "You're a hard woman to track down, Ms. Weekes."
She jerks her head as a man sits down next to her on the bench.
He's of medium-build, a bit thin, very pale looking, has short hair, and is wearing a black button-down shirt. He seems to be in his 30s.
His face is clean shaven, his eyes look totally empty and lifeless, and he has a peppy yet neutral expression.
He stretches out his hand, "Special Agent Björn Henrickson, FBI. Flimont City branch."
Maya's heart sinks and she slightly gasps, "Um...hello. H--How can I help you?" She tries her best to keep her cool, but she's freaking out inside.
Agent Björn takes a deep breath and smiles as his hand is still waiting to be shook by Maya, "C'mon, don't leave me hanging. Can't keep it up forever."
Maya warily shakes his hand. She winces at how...unusually cold it is.
Could it be...?
No, certainly not an FBI agent!
He continues, "You can call me Björn. I'd prefer it, actually. Heh, and yes, that IS my real name."
"OK, Björn? What do you want with me?"
"You're a smart gal, why don't you tell me?"
Maya sighs deeply, "There's a viral video of me and...someone arguing. That certain someone said some things about me that, for whatever reason, the FBI's interested in."
Björn laughs, "Yep, that about sums it up, Ms. Weekes."
Maya groans, "Hmph. J--Just call me Maya."
Björn replies, "You got it, Maya." He winks and chuckles.
Maya shoves her phone back in her pocket. She looks at this FBI agent and says, "I'm not under arrest or anything like that?"
"No, no, absolutely not. I just wanna...talk."
Maya directly asks, "Since when is the Federal Bureau of Investigation interested in vampires? Isn't it your job to do...other stuff?"
Agent Björn shrugs, "Ehhh. My particular...department is tasked with investigating strange happenings." His tone is vague and very mysterious.
Maya asks, "Why are you bothering me? I haven't done anything wrong, have I?"
Björn replies, "I dunno, you tell me. Have you been a naughty girl?"
Maya scoffs, "Pfff, I'm 33, cut the Santa Claus bullshit. What do you want from me?"
Björn pats her shoulder, "I just wanna talk."
Maya twitches a bit, "Join an online forum if you're desperate." She looks away from him.
Björn says, "Look, Maya, maybe we're not so different, you and I."
Maya turns to face Björn, "What the hell are you talking about?"
"Well I know a bit about you. It's sad, growing up an orphan. It really is."
"They have a file on me??" Maya sounds shocked.
Björn nods and lowers his voice, "We got a file on everyone, baby. National Security and all that."
Maya sighs and folds her arms, "Do I have a right to know what your file has about me? My entire life's on that file, right?"
Agent Björn lowers his voice to a whisper, "Probably. I could tell you more about...it. But--"
Maya's getting a bit annoyed, "But what?"
"Ooooh, you're a spicy one, aren't you?"
Maya furrows her brows and glares at him.
He clears his throat and points to the briefcase between Maya's feet, "What you got in that briefcase there? Looking for a job or something? Haha."
"None of your business."
He sighs as he adjusts his shirt cuff, "I'm your friend here, Maya. You gotta play ball with me. Let's go somewhere more private, what do you say?" He smiles again. It's a smile that could make anyone uncomfortable.
There's just something off about it. Deeply off.
Maya blandly asks, "Private? Where?"
Björn points in some vague direction, "Anywhere not here. Too many people around here. Too much...light," he whispers those last 3 words for some reason.
He continues, "Look, I'm not gonna hurt you or try anything funny." He does the Scout sign and salute with his 3 fingers, "Scout's Honor."
Maya nods and says, "You better not. You won't get very far." She scoffs and leans back on the bench.
Björn nods, "Oh, I know. Trust me." He leans closer and says, "C'mon, let's go."
"Hmmm. Let's." Maya grabs the briefcase and follows Björn. They walk to a nearby alley that is barely lit at this time.
They stop in the middle of the alley. Agent Björn looks around for anyone that could be snooping on them.
Once satisfied that no one's around, he turns to face Maya and smiles, "How 'bout a game of...pull my finger?" He wiggles his finger around.
Maya grimaces, "Ugh, is this what they do at FBI school or whatever it's called?"
Björn shrugs and smiles, "I dunno. I haven't been there in...years. But, I like to keep things funny," he laughs, but there is something deeply unsettling about his laugh, too. Something off...
Maya groans, "Funny, haha. Whatever, fine." She rolls her eyes as she takes Björn's finger.
With almost catlike reflexes, he grabs Maya's hand and places 2 fingers on her wrist, as if trying to feel for her pulse. His hands are colder than Maya's, so she gasps slightly in shock.
Maya stammers as she struggles to break free of his grip, "Wha--wha--"
He smiles at her and nods, "How about we play a game of...feel-my-pulse?"
Who is this guy?
Maya looks scared as Björn forces her fingers onto his own wrist. It's...odd. She feels absolutely no pulse from this man's wrist, yet he's still moving, talking, and acting like a human.
She stares deeply into his lifeless eyes, trying to figure out what's going on here.
Maya gulps, "You're...you're a--"
A smile of satisfaction comes across his face, "Kindred? Vampire? Cainite, if you're feeling fancy." He lets go of Maya's hand and chuckles to himself.
Maya rubs her wrist. It stings a bit. She doesn't like where this is going, but she also knows she doesn't really have any way to defend herself against someone like this.
Besides, he already said he means her no harm.
Maya asks, "What...what Clan are you from? Who is your Prince? Who is your Sire?"
He shrugs, "Prince?" He chuckles, "Heh. That's cute."
His face turns serious as he continues, "As for my Clan, well, I'm with Clan Baali."
Maya furrows her brows, "Baali? Um...never heard of them."
Björn clicks his tongue, "Shame. I guess they really do try to...not talk about us."
Maya remarks, "That's probably for a good reason."
Björn dismissively waves his hand, "We don't really care what others think. So, you a Ravnos like the rest of the bloodsuckers in this podunk town?" He smirks at Maya.
She shakes her head, "Uh...no."
He tilts his head and raises his brow, "Hmmm? A Ventrue then? Lasombra? Gangrel? Tzimisce? Brujah? Malkavian, oh they're nuts, haha!"
"No. Absolutely not. Nope. No. No and no."
Björn blows a raspberry, "OK, I give up. Which Clan do you belong to?"
"Tremere."
"Oh, them. Huh, you don't seem their type, but ehhh. What can I say? Hehe." He pokes her forehead with his index finger.
Maya pushes his finger away and matter-of-factly declares, "You should probably present yourself to the Prince of this town in accordance with the Fifth Tradition of the Camarilla."
He struggles to hold back laughter, "What a nerd, haha! Do you stop to read the signs and everything?"
Maya's not sure what to say to that. She shrugs and tries to change the subject, "So, what's your Clan about? I've never heard of them. But, that's hardly surprising; Kindred are pretty damn secretive."
Björn raises his chin slightly, "Actually, I wanna introduce you to a...friend of mine. I think you 2 have already met."
Maya is unsure what to say, "Umm...no?" She pauses for a few seconds, "Why are you being so weird, anyways? I'm...still new to this whole being a vampire thing."
"A Fledgling, huh?"
"Yeah."
Björn shrugs, "Anyways..." He snaps his fingers and convulses and winces a few times. After a few moments, his eyes glow.
From out of nowhere, an imposing, 8 feet tall, figure materializes behind Maya. It is totally pitch black.
Maya's heart acts up as she turns around to look at this thing.
Her jaw hangs open as the faceless, expressionless creature looks down at her.
She notices the horns on...its head. They are long, twisted, and sharp. Its arms and hands are quite large. In fact, the entire body is extremely big, almost disproportionate.
Maya takes a few steps back and almost falls over. Luckily, Björn catches her. She turns around and stares into his eyes.
She has a confused, yet shocked look on her face, "Wha..."
Björn pats Maya on the back and gestures to that thing, "Say hello to my little friend. OK, that sounded a bit cliché. Hah."
Maya stammers, "It's...it's..."
"It's a product of my Daimonion Discipline."
The creature seems to look down at Maya with great interest.
Björn remarks, "I'm still new to the whole Kindred thing myself, too." He walks to one of the alley's walls and leans against it.
The shadow creature stands there, watching Maya move away from it. She's terrified and doesn't know what to make of this situation.
She takes a deep breath.
Björn grins, "Ahhh. I think it likes you."
Maya stammers as she says, "I--I saw something like this in...in--"
"An alleyway near 5th Street. Yeah, we share our vision. The more eyes the merrier, right?" He snickers.
"How...?"
"Pfft. Just because it doesn't have eyes, doesn't mean it can't see! It probably has a million under that cloak of darkness or whatever." He smiles and shrugs.
Maya squints her eyes a bit. A part of her is kinda curious about this strange creature, which seems to either be a piece or extension of Björn himself.
He adds, "Don't get any bright ideas, Fledgling. This is something ONLY me and my Clan can do. Not your precious Tremere or anyone else."
He continues as a sly smirk forms across his face, "But, if you're interested in learning more, just say so, eh?"
Maya nervously shakes her head. She gulps and looks up at this shadow entity.
Björn gestures to it, "It's actually quite helpful, Maya."
Maya skeptically asks, "How exactly is an 8 foot tall shadow...thing with horns on its head helpful?"
Björn points at it, "'Thing'?! You're hurting its feelings! C'mon, be a little more considerate." He pouts as his shadow entity looks around the area.
She hears a very faint growl coming from Björn's "buddy".
It's unsettling and deeply unnerving.
Björn adds, "It's like my best bud! Sometimes, it brings me my meals, scouts out areas, eavesdrops on people, or whatever!"
The entity takes a few steps back and assumes a more relaxed posture.
Björn casually asks, "What were you up to in that alley before I so graciously appeared in front of you?"
Maya stammers, "I--I was looking around."
Björn nods over to the briefcase that Maya is holding on to, "You've been holding on to that thing for a while now. Wanna tell your new pals what's inside? Hmmm?"
He smiles and tries to appear nonthreatening.
Maya sighs deeply, "It's nothing to do with you."
Björn shrugs, "OK, OK, fine."
Maya looks at Björn's Infernal Servitor and asks, "What do you want in this town, anyway? Did you really come just to...chat with me?"
Björn grins, "Like I said, Maya, you and I, we're not so different."
Maya folds her arms and shakes her head, "I wouldn't be so sure about that. I...just don't want any trouble. Not from anyone. OK?"
Björn nods, "Me neither. But, someone in this town has something."
"Has something???"
Björn cracks his knuckles, "Has something that belongs to my...boss."
"Huh???" Maya's confused and doesn't really know how to respond to that.
He continues, "It's complicated. I wouldn't call him my 'boss' per se, but yeah, I'm looking for something. I last heard about it being in this charming little podunk town."
"You're looking for something that...someone might have. Got it."
Björn smiles, "Maybe they might not even know that they have...it."
Maya cocks her head, "What is 'it'? What exactly are we talking about??"
Björn vaguely replies, "The less you know about it, the better, I suppose."
Maya shrugs, "Whatever. Just don't breach the Masquerade and play nice."
Björn shakes his head, "Yeah, yeah, I know about all that. Can't make any promises, though. Us Baali tend to be a little more..."
Maya finishes his sentence, "...weird, weird, and weirder. Gotcha."
He chuckles, "Heh, not entirely wrong about that."
Björn straightens out his shirt and gestures to the alley entrance, "You probably have places to be. As do I."
Maya says, "Wait! I have a few more questions."
Björn looks at his Infernal Servitor, "Should we play 20 questions with the redhead?"
No reply, in word or action, from it.
Björn softly exhales, "I suppose I could spare a few minutes."
Maya nods. She looks at the shadowy figure again and then at Björn.
"How are you even doing that?" Maya points at his shadowy companion.
"Clan Baali specialty. For the right price, you could have one of your own, or maybe something else from the Beyond."
"For the right price. Uh-huh. OK, next question. How does yours differ from the other Clans?"
"Apart from the fact that the other Clans love denouncing us as devil worshipers and pretending we don't exist? Hmmm." He scratches his chin, "Well, I can't speak for the others, but my Clan is pretty unique."
"Unique how?"
"We're not bound by the same rules as the other Clans. For instance, us Baali can Re-Embrace a Kindred. NO OTHER Clan can do that. We got a lotta Nosferatu who get sick and tired of being ugly sewer dwellers approaching us, heh." Björn has a smug look on his face.
"Huh." Maya ponders over this. She then asks, "OK, but why are you an FBI agent? Or uh...HOW are you still one? You know the Second Inquisition is hunting us down, right?"
Björn chuckles and looks around, "I know, I know. I was actually one of them- unwittingly, of course. But, hey, the FBI thing's good enough to get you into places and stuff."
Björn continues, "Oh, and speaking of FBI, Special Agent Higgins is really, REALLY eager to talk to you. I'm sure you know why. I can...keep him off your back."
He lowers his voice and leans in closer, "Or I can make sure they never find his body."
"Who's Higgins?" Maya nervously asks. She's heard that name before, from her former employer. She asks, "Is Higgins d--dangerous or something?" Her voice sounds a bit shaky.
Björn nods. He replies, "He's SI. That's all I'm gonna say. So, you want," he gestures to his Infernal Servitor, "us...to take care of him?" His smile is unsettling, as usual.
Maya's not really sure how to respond to this. She's only known Björn (and his "buddy") for like, a few minutes.
She shakes her head, "I dunno. I--I just don't like being put in such uncomfortable situations where I have to decide. Is there anything you can do to help me avoid Higgins altogether?"
She pauses, "I guess...I should meet him. If he's so...eager to see me, then what's the harm in it, right?" She shrugs.
Björn pouts, "You're a spoilsport, you know that, Maya Weekes?"
He laughs a bit and continues, "Anyway, just...don't trust the guy, OK? These SI higher-ups do tend to try and manipulate people, especially younger Kindred. So, you can never be too careful around these a-holes."
She gestures to the shadow entity, "Is...it strong enough to, y'know, rip heads off or something? Or can you just tell it to uh...watch you while you day-sleep?" She feels weird asking about that, but she's kinda curious.
"It can do a lotta things, ain't that right, pal?" He nods over to his "buddy" and softly chuckles.
It, of course, merely looks at him and then at Maya. It doesn't seem to react otherwise. At least, not as far as Maya can tell. Its face is a blank canvas. She's not sure what the thing is capable of, and part of her doesn't wanna know.
At least, not yet.
Björn stretches his arms and legs, exaggerating his yawn. He says, "Any more questions, sweet pea? I gotta run." He points over to his shadowy buddy, "We got stuff to do."
Maya thinks for a few moments before shaking her head, "Nope. You're kind of weird, Björn. I'll give ya that, haha." She tries to break the tension. It sort of works. But, she's still a bit freaked out by him.
And his otherworldly buddy, of course. Who wouldn't be?!
Björn laughs, "We're all a bit weird, Ms. Weekes. We're Kindred, after all. Our whole schtick is...unusual."
He smiles at her and walks away, his Infernal Servitor, slowly trudging behind him.
Maya calls out, "Goodnight! I guess."
Björn merely waves as he heads to where ever it is he's planning to go.
Maya also has places to be, but there's still so much time. She grabs the briefcase and goes back to her Vespa. She's a bit worried that something happened to it, but everything's fine! The chain and lock are intact.
She drives off, thinking about what to do now. She decides to go to a more open (and less busy) stretch of road to sharpen her scooter-riding skills. So, she cruises along the semi-lit streets of Plaintry.
Her mind drifts towards thoughts about the Prince, the mysterious briefcase, and the new Baali FBI agent. She's a bit anxious about meeting the Prince later.
What if the info in that briefcase turns out to be a dead end? What will the Prince do?
Will he blame her for that? Will the other Kindred hate her for that?
The info in that briefcase is supposed to exonerate the Nosferatu Clan of any wrongdoing all those years ago, when Geoffrey was Prince.
So, that means the Toreador Clan would be solely responsible for the numerous violations of the Traditions (perceived or otherwise).
She wonders how long ago and how deep this whole mess actually goes.
Will she ever get answers? And what about Nosferatu?
Will they get a chance to redeem themselves? Will they be welcome back to the town?
Questions that a mere Fledgling like Maya was in no position to answer.
As she rides, she spots a group of teenagers walking on the sidewalk. She slows down a bit and passes them.
She hears them talking amongst themselves. They turn around and see Maya on the scooter. She's not wearing her helmet, so they almost immediately recognize her.
They start pointing and jeering. A couple of them make faces at her. One of them even yells, "DRACULA WENT THAT WAY!"
Maya sighs and speeds off, feeling a bit annoyed and frustrated. She's not about to start a fight with a bunch of teenagers. She, after all, was one numerous years ago.
So, a part of her understands their...antics. She just hopes that it won't become too much of a bother in the age of technology. After all, as a Kindred, she now has a responsibility to uphold The Masquerade.
Anyway, she speeds off and spends the next hour or so idly riding around the town on her Vespa. Frank really did a good job on the maintenance and repairs. It's like she's riding a brand new scooter!
It's too bad she'll never get to thank him.
After a while, she decides to head back to the auditorium. It's time to hand over that briefcase to the Prince, or whoever's there.
She parks her scooter and grabs the briefcase. She takes a deep breath and starts walking.
As she expected, Prince Lucas is there, but he's not alone. There's a Native American man speaking with him. There are also quite a few bullet bikes and muscle cars parked around.
Prince Lucas sees Maya and waves her over. He greets her with a big smile and says, "There she is. Our new Tremere Fledgling. Welcome, welcome. How has your night been so far?"
Maya smiles, "It's been good, Prince Lucas. How are you doing tonight?"
Prince Lucas sighs, "As well as one can expect, I suppose. I'd like to introduce you to someone, Maya."
The Native American man steps forward and introduces himself, "Name's Chaska. Clan Ravnos. Lucas, err, I mean Prince Lucas has told me quite a bit about you, Usurper."
Maya shakes his hand, "Nice to meet you, Mr. Chaska."
Prince Lucas asks, "What's in the briefcase, Maya?"
Maya holds it up and slightly grins, "Oh, this. I found it near the place that Caitiff courier was destroyed. It was behind a nasty dumpster."
Prince Lucas arches one eyebrow, "Was it now? My people combed that area and found nothing. How did you do it?"
Maya maintains her slight grin, "Auspex!"
Prince Lucas chuckles, "Very good, very good. Here, let me see."
Maya hands over the briefcase. Chaska studies her with great interest. He seems very curious about this Tremere Fledgling.
The Prince inspects the briefcase and looks at the 4-dial combination lock.
Maya remarks, "I...uh cleaned it up real nice and everything."
The Prince nods, "I can see that. Hmmm. It does look quite...new."
Prince Lucas mutters to himself for a few moments as he tries to recall the code to the briefcase.
Maya interrupts, "I tried to get it open, but--"
Chaska puts his fingers on his lips, "Shhh. He already knows the code."
After a few seconds, the Prince manages to open the briefcase. Inside is a pile of papers.
The first page reads: "Evidence To Exonerate The Nosferatu."
Very on-the-nose.
Prince Lucas sets the briefcase on the hood of a parked car and begins reading through the documents.
He looks perplexed and irritated as he frantically turns the pages. He's mumbling to himself.
Chaska looks over the Prince's shoulder, "Wha--"
Prince Lucas sneers, "Empty. It's all empty."
He looks at Maya with anger in his eyes.
Maya takes a few steps back and holds her hands up, "Wait, hold on, please, I don't know anything about this!"
Prince Lucas snarls, "Of course you don't!"
Chaska grabs the Prince's arm and says, "She's not at fault here! This...is clearly someone's idea of a sick joke."
Maya looks at some of the completely blank pages being blown away by the night wind, "I didn't know it was empty! Honest!"
Prince Lucas looks at the documents, "Who would do this? Why?!" He clenches his fist.
Maya stammers, "M--Maybe...maybe--"
Prince Lucas angrily says, "Just say it, Maya!"
Maya gulps, "Maybe they wrote it in...invisible ink or something?" She feels a bit embarrassed saying that out loud.
Chaska shares in her embarrassment and holds back a smirk, "Not likely."
Prince Lucas shoves the papers back in the briefcase and violently closes it shut. He tosses it over to Maya.
She's about to catch it, but it hits her in the chest. She watches as it hits the ground and spills the documents.
She quickly gathers the papers and shoves them back in the briefcase.
Chaska shakes his head as Prince Lucas walks away. He bends down to help Maya gather these blank sheets of A4 paper.
He remarks, "He might be a Ravnos, but there are times when his temper flares up like that of a Brujah."
Maya weakly smiles and lowers her head as she gathers the last few pages.
Chaska adds, "Don't take it too hard. We're Kindred. Shit like this is expected. Some Prince or heavy-hitter thought it'd be haha funny to have a Caitiff deliver a whole lotta nothing across the country."
Maya's lips quiver, "That--that courier was destroyed for no reason at all??"
Chaska nods, "I'm afraid that's the case. His name was Max, by the way. Poor guy. Didn't deserve that."
Maya sighs deeply and stares at the briefcase.
Chaska reassures her, "I know that look. You're worried about your Lucile, aren't you?"
Maya silently nods.
The Wanderer continues, "She's gonna be OK. I'm told that she's an excellent Blood Sorceress?"
Maya replies, "The finest I've ever met."
He gives her shoulder a gentle squeeze, "Then, she's gonna be just fine."
Maya smiles weakly and sighs. She looks over at the Prince.
Prince Lucas is leaning against a wall, one leg bent up.
He's looking at a blank piece of paper he has in his hand, then he looks at Maya, then at Chaska.
His eyes have an intense, fiery look to them.
Chaska remarks, "The pressures of Princehood, Maya. Even in a town like this, it's tough." He walks over to Prince Lucas and sits next to him. They begin to talk in hushed tones.
Maya can barely make out what they're saying, but it seems that Prince Lucas and Chaska know each other.
Maya looks around and notices all the Ravnos gathered here. What are they doing here?
Soon enough, Sheriff Eunice arrives in a beat-up SUV, slightly dented at the front. She hops out and tosses the car keys to someone nearby.
Not acknowledging Maya or Chaska, she power-walks over to Prince Lucas and asks, "Ready?"
The Prince solemnly nods his head, "Yes, bring the body." He looks at Chaska.
Sheriff Eunice nods and walks away, "Ten-Four." She motions for a group of Ravnos to follow her.
Maya narrows her eyes and asks Chaska what's going on.
He responds, "It's Frank's funeral, Usurper. We don't exactly have a proper burial plot, so we're just gonna...bury him here." He pauses and looks around.
He continues, "I suggested cremation, but Prince Lucas insisted on a proper burial. After all, Frank was his Ghoul."
Maya nods and asks, "Where's the body, then?" She feels weird asking that. She's still a bit shaken up from what just transpired.
After all, she found Frank and was the last to see him alive. With his dying words, he identified his attackers: The Garou.
Chaska asks, "So, I heard you and some Thin-Blood named Dylan found Frank and a few of our people at a garage?"
Maya nods, "Yeah." Her hands tremble a bit.
Chaska grips her trembling hand, "It's OK, Maya. It's not your fault. We will find who did this to Frank and we will make them answer for their crimes." He sounds very determined.
Maya nods, "I--I wanna help. I wanna find the Garou, too." She clenches her fists.
Chaska shakes his head, "I have met Garou before. It's not unusual for a Garou to attack a Kindred, but something about this seems...odd." He seems a bit worried.
He adds, "I'm sure you've already met Sheriff Eunice?"
Maya grits her teeth and swallows hard, "Uh, yeah. She's...scary."
Chaska replies, "It's part of her job. And her being a Malkavian helps. Probably." He pauses to let out a nervous chuckle.
Maya nods, "Yeah." She looks over to Sheriff Eunice and the others.
She sees what remains of Frank, wrapped in a white sheet. It's lying down on the ground, surrounded by many Ravnos. Sheriff Eunice is there as well.
Prince Lucas also looks over to the body and sighs, "Oh, Frank..."
He then beckons Chaska and Maya to join him.
Maya stops in her tracks and notices that she isn't quite dressed for a funeral.
Chaska turns around and says, "It's fine, Maya. Just come." He warmly smiles at her and then joins Prince Lucas.
Maya walks over to the Prince and stands next to Chaska. There's about a dozen or more Ravnos gathered to pay their respects to the departed Ghoul.
Chaska begins, "Well, I'm not really good at this sort of thing. But, here goes. Frank was a good friend. He always had a kind word to say to everyone, no matter who they were, Kindred or mortal."
He looks over to the side and continues, "He was also a damn good mechanic."
A Ravnos sitting on the hood of a car raises a beer bottle, half-filled with blood, and says, "Hear hear!" He takes a big gulp of it.
Prince Lucas nods, "Yes. Frank was an excellent Ghoul. He served me well and with great dedication. He will be missed. Rest well, my friend." He sighs deeply as a drop of blood flows down his cheek.
The other Ravnos solemnly nod and lower their heads in silence. Some mutter a few words, others hold each other close. A few seem to shed tears, of sadness and blood.
Prince Lucas wipes his bloody tear with his thumb and motions for the others to follow him. They grab their shovels and begin to dig a hole near the auditorium.
Chaska motions to one of the Ravnos and says, "Let's go."
Sheriff Eunice hangs back, her arms crossed. She looks completely indifferent to the whole thing. She stands still as a statue.
Maya walks up next to her and politely says, "Hi."
A grunt from the Sheriff is all she gets in return.
Maya adds, "I'm...I'm sorry about Frank. I really am." She looks down at the ground.
Maya continues, "I uh...found something tonight."
Sheriff Eunice coldly replies, "Did you, now? Spit it out." She doesn't turn her head or make any other movement.
Maya gulps, "Y--Yeah. I found the briefcase that Caitiff courier was carrying."
"Hmph. Anything interesting inside?"
Maya shakes her head, "A whole lotta nothing."
"Then, why are you telling me this?"
"I--I just thought you'd wanna know, I uh--"
Eunice dryly interjects, "Grab a shovel and help those Ravens out, would you?"
Maya simply lowers her head and walks to the others. She volunteers, but they seem to have it under control. She watches as they finish digging a hole big enough to fit a partially dismembered body.
One of the Ravnos says, "We're done here, boss."
They proceed to lower the torn body into the hole.
After the body is inside, Maya is the first to take initiative. She grabs a clump of dirt and gently drops it onto the corpse.
Chaska nods and follows suit, as do the other Ravnos. Prince Lucas bends down and drops a few clumps of dirt on the body.
He softly says, "Rest easy, old friend." He looks over to Sheriff Eunice and shakes his head.
She's just standing there, far away, her arms folded, her back straight, not moving even an inch.
When everyone's done, a few of the Ravnos begin to shovel the dirt back into the hole.
As they do, Prince Lucas grabs Maya's shoulder and leads her away. He tells her to follow him. Maya is hesitant, but complies.
With a wrinkled brow, she follows him to a nearby corner.
The Prince clasps his hands together and avoids eye contact, "Maya, I'm not usually one for such things, but I want to apologize for my...outburst earlier."
He continues, "I had high hopes that what you found would actually help. But, alas." He shrugs.
Maya stammers, "It's...it's alright. Being Prince is not easy. I get it. The pressures and all that stuff."
"Hm. You have no idea how...taxing it can get, Maya. Which is why I had Frank. He was the one who'd sit down and organize the Clan meetings months in advance."
"Oh."
"Yes. I have no skill for such things. But, Frank did. It is going to be tough without him. Even more so with the Garou in town." He sighs and rubs his forehead.
Maya asks, "Is there anything more I can do to help."
Prince Lucas shakes his head, "You are still a Fledgling, Maya. Besides, your Clan is a very...demanding one, is it not? The Tremere have unusually high expectations for you, don't they?"
Maya shrugs, "Yeah, I guess." She pauses and looks around for a few seconds.
He replies, "I'm sure your Sire will guide you through the worst of it."
Prince Lucas gestures to all the other Ravnos who are gathered around the fresh grave, "All of them and many more were what you would call Frank's 'closest friends'. They knew him very well."
He then points at a Ravnos standing next to the grave and says, "For instance, Frank fixed up her old Mustang and had it looking better than ever."
Maya nods, "Frank was a good man. He didn't deserve to be uh...murdered like that."
Prince Lucas sighs, "No one does, Maya. I have met the Garou during my travels. They are certainly many things, as are Kindred. But, they do not randomly kill someone who poses no immediate threat to them. No. This is...different." He looks down at the ground.
He continues, "Perhaps you will help uncover the real intentions of the Garou in this town. I suspect that they are here for more than just hunting down random Kindred and Ghouls."
Maya nods, "I'm gonna find out what their deal is." Yet, her tone betrays her uncertainty.
The Prince smiles and looks over at Sheriff Eunice, "I understand the Sheriff can be a hard woman to deal with, but she is just doing her job. Besides, she lost her husband some time ago."
Maya replies, "Yeah, I heard something about that..."
"I don't know the specifics and Eunice doesn't seem too keen on sharing that info with others. But, yes, she was once married to a mortal man. He was in the real estate business, if I'm not mistaken."
"Any...any uh...kids?"
"A 17 year old stepdaughter. Eunice and her don't seem close at all, however."
"That's sad."
The Prince shrugs, "It is what it is, Maya. I have no idea how a relationship between a mortal and a Kindred would work out. Besides, they never seem to last more than a few decades at best. I suppose that is to be expected."
Maya remarks, "I dunno. It could be possible, probably."
Prince Lucas says, "Either way, do try your best to work with the Sheriff. The sooner we find out what the Garou want in this town, the better for all involved."
Maya shrugs and smiles, "Yeah, OK." She nods, "I'll do my best, Prince Lucas. Um...promise."
Prince Lucas shakes his head, "Don't make promises you might not be able to fulfill, Maya."
Maya nods, "Yeah, yeah. You're right." She sighs, feeling slightly awkward.
The Prince walks away, back to the other Ravnos who have done a good job covering up Frank's body. They are now chatting amongst themselves and having a few thoughtful moments here and there.
Maya watches as Sheriff Eunice struts over to the group.
Chaska dusts his hands as he walks over to Maya, "Well, that's one less friend I have now."
He sighs deeply, "Sorry, it's not exactly easy, you know? After all, us Kindred are given this promise of living forever. They never tell us about the downsides of Unlife, though. They never warn you about how you might lose everyone you care about."
Maya nods, "Yeah. Tell me about it."
Chaska raises his head to the sky, "But, then again, what's the point of living forever if you have no one to share it with?"
He looks over to Maya, "Even now, I see that look of anxiety on your face, Usurper. You have concerns about your Lucile. I understand that. I hope she won't make the same mistakes I have."
Maya furrows her brows and asks, "What do you mean by that??"
"I was a courier once. I think it was way back in '92. 1992, that is, haha. It had been a good decade since my Embrace, yet I still found myself making many mistakes. Anyway, I was supposed to deliver some important documents to a Ventrue Prince, but...I got sidetracked along the way."
He rubs his hands once more and continues, "My car broke down. It was late at night and the rain was pouring down like crazy. So, I had to walk a few miles to a motel."
He pauses and looks around, "Spent some cash for a room. Sunrise was in a few hours. Then, I heard a noise coming from outside. So, I walked to the door, opened it, and..." He takes a deep breath.
Maya nods, "And...what happened?"
"The place was swarming with police. They said something about a nasty car crash on the I-90. They barged into my room and...found my stash of blood. Not my fault, really. I was thirsty. It happens."
Maya asks, "You could have just uh...convinced them that nothing was out of the ordinary."
"Hah. Yeah, right. A bunch of racist, trigger-happy cops finding bags of blood in a Native American man's motel room in the 90s? Sure, you lemme know if you can talk your way outta THAT..."
"So...uh, what did you do?"
He coldly responds, "What I had to do, Usurper."
Maya gulps, "Y--You mean, you ki--"
A look of anguish comes across Chaska's face as he lowers his head, "Yes, Maya. I killed them. All."
"B--But, how?"
"The Discipline of Animalism."
"OK..."
Chaska softly chuckles, "I summoned a spirit bear to assist me. Then, I entered into a...controlled Frenzy of sorts..." his voice trails off a bit.
He sighs and continues, "The rest is a blur of shouting, gunfire, and blood. A lot of blood."
He pauses for a few seconds, "By the end of it, I woke up in a shack, miles away from the motel. The sun was rising. And my head was pounding. There were bits and pieces of flesh, bone, and brains splattered all over me."
He grimaces and goes on, "I looked around the shack. The place was falling apart. Thankfully, there was a hatch nearby. So, I went down there. Turned out it was a small tunnel leading to a cave."
"You slept down there?"
"Yup. I pretty much drifted off. The sunrise does weird things to you when you're a vampire. After that, I woke up, got myself cleaned up, and walked out of there." He shrugs.
"You ever deliver that package to the Ventrue Prince?"
Chaska nods, "Mm-hmm. After that, I was released from my courier obligations. It seems the Prince's Sheriff wasn't too fond of the mess I had made. And I can't blame 'em."
"So, what happened after that?"
"I skipped town. I decided to go back to the Reservation. I had a lot of...sorting out to do. It was tough. Really tough. Still is." He sighs deeply and crosses his arms.
Maya directly asks, "Is there a lesson in all of this? No offense, but it feels like a long-winded sob story. You--you killed people." She immediately regrets saying that. Why is she so tactless sometimes?!
Chaska chuckles, "None taken, Usurper. As for the cops, I did what I had to do. I suppose the lesson would be this- there is safety in numbers. I decided to run with Lucas and his people from then on. He was and is a good leader, Maya."
"You and Prince Lucas go way back, huh?"
"Indeed. After the disappearance of his Sire, I mentored him a bit. Showed him a few neat tricks here and there. He used to work at a bar on the Reservation, so he knows how to mix a mean drink or two." Chaska smiles and looks over at the Prince, who is talking to a few other Ravnos.
"Prince Lucas did mention something about his Sire being a Native American. What happened to them?"
Chaska shrugs, "Ah, Cheveyo? I honestly do not know. He was one of the few Elders who foresaw what would happen in 1999."
Maya's lips quiver, "The Week Of Nightmares."
Chaska regards her for a few seconds, "You know about that? Huh."
He continues, "Yes, it was the worst time ever. The worst time to be anything- mortal, Kindred, Ghoul, or whatever." He shrugs and looks away.
Maya replies, "Something about your Antediluvian, Zapathasura, awakening and devouring all Ravnos. That's what Lucile told me, at least."
Chaska nods, "Yes, it was a terrible time, Maya. Many of our Clan were destroyed. It hasn't been the same since then, but we're slowly rebuilding, slowly growing again. Yet, there's still a lot of work to be done."
"I bet."
He pauses for a few moments, then continues, "Anyway, after Cheveyo's sudden disappearance, Lucas was pretty torn up about it. I guess that's where I came in. I did my best to comfort him and help him through those dark and tumultuous times."
"Was Cheveyo Beckoned or was it something else?"
"Probably. He was an Elder, after all, so it's possible he was Beckoned away. If he was, then it's a real shame. He was a good guy. I just hope he's alright, where ever he is."
"Even you miss him, don't you?"
Chaska pensively nods, "We all do. He was wise, kind, and very helpful. If he were still around, he would probably know what to do. Or at least give us some insight into the problems we're currently facing." He lets out a nervous chuckle.
He continues, "For us Ravnos, there's safety in numbers. We travel together, celebrate together, and yes..."
He gestures to the ground Frank is buried under, "...we also mourn together. We may be few and scattered, but we always try our best to stick together when times get tough. We have very few alternatives."
"So, you're constantly on the move, then? Never in one place for too long?"
"We are eternally Doomed, Usurper. The fire that incinerated our Clan's founder eons ago rages through our very Blood. If we ever settle down for too long, we're ash. Literally." He laughs nervously.
Maya shakes her head, "I'm so sorry, Chaska."
"Ahhh, don't be. It keeps us on our toes, haha. We are nomads, travelers. Our destiny is to roam the world, to never truly belong anywhere. To have no home." His voice cracks on the last part.
Maya places a hand on his shoulder, "But Plaintry's kinda your home now, isn't it?"
Chaska nods, "In a way. The Prince and the Sheriff are doing their best to make it feel that way, especially now."
He shrugs and messes with his ponytail, "Anyway, I have places to be, heh. Look, just don't make Prince Lucas's job any harder than it already is, OK?" His tone is final, yet gentle.
Maya nods, "OK, yeah. I'll do my best, haha. And thanks. I'm always interested in learning about the other Clans and getting their...perspective on things."
As she's walking away, Chaska calls out, "Oh, and one more thing, Maya!"
"Hmmm?" Maya turns around.
"May the spirits of the Blood guide you and keep you safe, Maya of Clan Tremere." He gives her a big smile and a wink.
Maya thanks him, nods, and walks away.
Prince Lucas is in the middle of a conversation with Sheriff Eunice and a few other Ravnos. Keith and Kelly are there, too!
They both wave to Maya. She waves back and asks how they're doing.
Keith replies, "Eh, fine."
Kelly seems a bit twitchy and agitated, "We're OK. Thanks." She looks away as she bites her fingernails.
Maya asks, "How was your evening, Keith? Anything new or interesting happen?"
Keith shrugs, "Nah. Not much. Just the usual. Finding a place to sleep during the day is...hard. But, we manage. Oh, and I found a nice, refurbished iPad at a thrift store, so we got some entertainment, at least."
Maya smiles, "Cool, cool!"
Kelly continues chewing on her fingernails and spitting out the pieces, "It's...alright." She avoids eye contact with Maya.
Maya notices this and asks, "Are you doing OK, Kelly?"
Kelly retorts, "I'm fine, I'm fine!" She storms off, mumbling to herself.
Keith sighs and rolls his eyes, "Don't mind her, Maya. She's been on edge since the Garou attack."
"Oh, anything I can do to help?"
Prince Lucas walks over and responds, "Work with Sheriff Eunice to find the Garou. Ascertain their...motives for attacking Frank and the others."
Sheriff Eunice stands there with a blank expression on her face, arms crossed, and a straight back. She says nothing.
Maya stammers, "I--I don't even know where to start looking, Prince Lucas. I'm new here, remember?"
He nods, "Of course, Maya. I understand." He turns to Sheriff Eunice, "Please, make sure you show her the ropes. Is that the correct expression? Anyway, I expect regular updates from the both of you." He pauses and looks around.
The Sheriff nods, "You can count on it, boss."
Maya silently nods. She has no idea how she's gonna go about this, let alone work with Sheriff Eunice. How the hell is she supposed to track down a group of Garou who are out to destroy Kindred?!
This is not a simple task for a Fledgling, that's for sure!
Keith reassures Maya, "Hey, don't worry. You'll do fine."
Maya sheepishly smiles, "Thanks, Keith."
She looks at Kelly, who's pacing around, mumbling and shaking her head.
Maya asks, "Is she OK, Prince Lucas?"
Prince Lucas dismisses her concerns, "She'll be fine. She's just a bit on edge. She hasn't spoken to or seen her family in months, and making a phone call is risky due to certain...reasons. Personal reasons."
He adds, "We all have our burdens, Maya."
Maya nods and says goodbye to Keith and Prince Lucas. She flashes a quick smile to Sheriff Eunice and leaves on her scooter.
Chaska joins the trio and watches her drive off. He whispers something to the Prince, who responds with a simple nod.
Sheriff Eunice speaks up, "Now, with Frank gone, you're gonna need a new right-hand man. Any suggestions?"
Prince Lucas looks at Chaska, "I believe Chaska will suffice. For the time being, at least."
Chaska happily accepts, "Yeah, sure. I'm down for it."
Eunice mutters, "Hmmm."
Prince Lucas asks, "Anyways, our meeting with Ms. Agnieszka Steiner was quite productive, wasn't it, Chaska?"
Chaska nods, "Yeah, she had a really nice place up in the hills--"
Keith interjects, "You sure we can trust this Lasombra?"
Prince Lucas smiles, "Well, Keith, she knows what she is talking about. Also, she seemed quite interested in my offer."
Keith shrugs, "If you say so. I'll leave all the politics to you. I gotta bounce. Catch you later! C'mon, Kelly!"
Keith grabs Kelly and they both walk away.
As they're leaving, the Sheriff asks Prince Lucas, "So, this Agnieszka? Are you planning on making her your Seneschal?"
Prince Lucas bluntly responds, "No, no, Eunice. Nothing so drastic and troublesome. I just want an...advisor, of sorts. Nothing more."
The Prince asks Chaska what his opinion of Ms. Steiner is.
Chaska responds, "Well, for a Lasombra going through a divorce, she's pretty decent, I guess." He pauses and chuckles, "Sharp and resourceful, too."
Prince Lucas says, "Before Plaintry, all the Lasombra we encountered during our travels were Sabbat, which was not a pleasant experience, to put it mildly."
Chaska laughs and nods, "That is an understatement. But, hey, at least SHE seems pretty level-headed and had the good sense to leave that nasty death cult, haha."
Sheriff Eunice sharply asks, "Hmmm. You sure she's totally abandoned them?"
Prince Lucas replies, "I am fairly certain she has, Sheriff Eunice. Why do you ask?"
Sheriff Eunice cracks her knuckles, "Just wanna be sure, Prince Lucas. Any Sabbat enter my town, and they will be dealt with. Swiftly. No survivors." Her tone is cold and brutal.
Prince Lucas says, "Your loyalty to the Camarilla is...admirable, for lack of a better term."
The Malkavian Sheriff looks around and says, "OK, then. I guess we're done here. Goodnight."
Chaska bows his head, "Goodnight, Childe of Malkav and may the spirits of the Blood watch over you."
She doesn't reply and simply walks away.
Chaska looks over to the fresh grave and sighs, "Frank will be missed."
He walks over to the grave and gets on one knee. He gently caresses the soil and murmurs, "Rest easy, old friend."
Prince Lucas looks around and sighs, "It has been a...rough night, Chaska."
"Indeed."
"I hope that I can trust you to be by my side? Becoming the Prince of a town was not something I expected when we were simply passing through this place, but what choice did I have? Hmmm?" He scratches his head.
"I've got your back. Always. Besides, this place could use a little love. After all, we've been through a lot of rough shit over the past few decades, huh?"
"Hmph, tell me about it. Still, I just didn't see things turning out...like this." There is a hint of remorse in the Prince's voice.
Chaska replies, "Well, think of this as a challenge. A test of your capabilities. Think of all the great things you could accomplish while leading this town! Think of how proud Cheveyo would be of you!"
Prince Lucas softly chuckles and smiles when his Sire's name is mentioned, "Have you heard anything from anyone about where Cheveyo might be, by any chance, Chaska? I mean, I have heard many rumors about where he may be, but no actual locations. Hmmm?"
Chaska sighs, "I've been looking into it for a while, now. All I turn up is one dead end after the other." He shakes his head and sighs deeply, "I'm sorry." He pauses to gather his thoughts.
Prince Lucas shakes his head, "It's alright, Chaska. I just have to keep...hoping that he's still out there, somewhere, somehow surviving..." He takes a deep breath. There are tears of blood forming in his eyes. He clenches his fists. His jaw is tightly clenched.
His lips tremble as wrinkles form on his face. He lowers his head and stares at his boots, "I...I..." His voice trails off. A single tear of blood falls on his boot. It stains the leather. He sniffles and wipes it with his finger.
Chaska asks, "What about the others in the garage?"
Prince Lucas simply responds, "They were just ash by the time they were found. They...had no chance against the Garou surprise attack. It's a pity." He lets out a small sigh. His face has a distant, dreamy look on it.
It is the look of one who is, in his own way, grieving the loss of those he cared about. It is also the look of someone who will not take this tragedy lightly and who is determined to bring those who have caused it to justice.
Chaska cranes his head towards the auditorium and says, "So, I should probably schedule a meeting for tomorrow night. Gimme the addresses of all the Clan representatives and I'll take care of the rest."
Prince Lucas nods, "Whatever you need, Chaska."
Maya is on her scooter and on her way to meet Nolene and just hang out. The night, after all, is still young.
The wind blows. Her undead heart is full of anticipation. She is anxious to get more involved with the Kindred of Plaintry.
Yet, there is a certain uneasiness deep down in her chest that she cannot quite put her (retractable) claw on just yet.
She accelerates down the lonely streets. Her tires screech. Her eyes are focused on the road. The wind blows, whipping her long, red hair in all sorts of directions.
In a few minutes, she's in front of Nolene's quaint little occult shop. She hops off her scooter and opens the door to the shop. The bells jingle.
Inside, the place looks fairly well-kept. Nolene is nowhere to be found.
Maya calls out, "Nolene? Hi, it's me. Maya. You...here?"
Nolene walks out of the backroom. She's wearing a striped blazer and trouser set along with some hoop earrings. She's carrying a small, leather-bound book in her hands.
Maya greets her, "H--Hey, Nolene!"
"Maya. How you doing, girl?"
Maya chuckles, "Ah, great, I guess. Um...wow, Nolene, you look really nice in that. You uh...got a date or something?"
Nolene scoffs, "Hmph, I wish. I was in court all evening." She grimaces.
Maya remarks, "Wow, that's um...unfortunate." She flashes a sympathetic smile.
Nolene shrugs, "Oh well, what the hell. Sit down, I'll grab us a drink and we can hang out."
"Uhhh, OK. Thanks, I guess." Maya follows Nolene to a round table near the back.
She points to the book Nolene is holding and asks, "So, what's in that book, Nolene? Anything interesting?"
"Haha, just some random stuff from my stock. It's...boring, honestly."
"Is it Kindred stuff?"
"Heh, it's hard to tell, Maya."
Nolene grabs 2 cups from a cabinet. She bends over to grab 2 bags of blood from a mini fridge. She then pours its contents into the cups and sets them on the table. She sits down opposite to Maya.
She says, "Here you go, Maya. Drink up. I hope you like it."
"Oh, huh. Thanks. I already...fed, but it'd be rude to say no. Thanks!"
"You're a growing vamp. You need that strength, girl. The blood will be good for you. Trust me."
Maya chuckles and sips on her cup, "It's so weird how we vampires are so...normal about this stuff."
Nolene holds her cup with both her hands, "Yeah. I was freakin' the fuck out after my Embrace. But, I guess that's to be expected."
Maya takes another sip of her blood, "Yeah, that's true. If there's one thing I'd change about being a vampire, it's not ever having to drink another drop of blood ever again. Hell, I'd even make it so that...lasagna is required for survival. Wouldn't that be wild?"
Nolene giggles, "Good to see a bloodsucker with a sense of humor. I knew someone who else loved lasagna, but that was a long time ago."
Maya leans forward, "Oh, who were they?"
Nolene sips her cup and sighs, "Someone I cared about," her voice cracks as she continues, "Someone I loved." She looks down at the table and shakes her head.
"I'm here if you wanna talk, Nolene." Maya offers her hand.
Nolene smiles weakly, "His name was Jacques. He was the Sheriff of this town. We had been together for a couple of years. I hadn't been with someone ever since my husband died."
Maya gasps, "I'm so sorry, Nolene."
Nolene lets out a long, drawn-out sigh and says, "Yeah, well, Jacques ain't gone."
Maya furrows her brows, "Wh--what do you mean?"
A look of resentment comes across Nolene's face, "That fool abandoned the town when it needed him the most."
"I...I don't think I follow, Nolene?"
Nolene groans and leans back into her chair, "Back in '99. When the town was attacked by Wights." She pounds the table with her fist.
Is that the official narrative they went with?
Maya cocks her head but doesn't immediately say anything. Lucile told her what exactly happened during 1999- The Week Of Nightmares and the Methuselah rampage.
Of course, after that, there had to be some kind of cover-up because what Nolene is saying is simply untrue. Or, was Lucile lying about the whole ordeal?
Maya dismisses the latter thought from her head. Lucile probably had a good reason for keeping CERTAIN things from Maya, but she'd never lie to her about something so important. Right?
Also, why didn't she ever tell Nolene anything? And, more importantly, why didn't Eleanor say anything?
Maya shakes her head and says, "I--"
Nolene clicks her tongue, "When we needed him the most, he skipped town. And I loved him. He left us. He left...me. All alone." Tears of blood stream down her face. She wipes them away with the back of her hand.
Maya simply nods, "I see."
She feels the urge to tell Nolene what REALLY happened that night- Jacques, the Toreador Sheriff of Plaintry, was violently destroyed by one of the Methuselahs. He simply stood no chance against that woman.
And yet, Maya also feels compelled to not disclose this particular piece of information. Lucile and Eleanor wanted to keep things quiet about the whole incident.
But why?
Maya sighs, "So...what exactly happened to Jacques?" She sips her cup, which is getting empty.
"I haven't seen that fool since '99, but I ever catch glimpse of him again, I'm gonna drive the biggest goddamn stake right through his heart!" She gets up from the table and storms off.
"He abandoned us. He abandoned ME! Aaaarg!" She angrily kicks a chair, causing some of her dusty occult knickknacks to fall onto the floor.
Nolene lets out an exasperated sigh, "He--he just left. No message, nothing. Just ran away when shit hit the fan!"
Maya flinches a bit as a knickknack rolls to her feet, "And what about the Prince? Did he--"
"Geoffrey was useless! He didn't have the guts to do nothing about it! He just came back from some trip with his stupid-ass friends and acted like everythin' was all fine and normal!" Nolene grits her teeth and punches a nearby wall. Her knuckles make a sickening thud.
Maya slowly gets up, heads over to Nolene, and places her hands on Nolene's shoulders, "It's OK, it's OK. If you don't wanna talk about it anymore, then that's fine."
"Yeah. I'm sorry about that."
"It's OK, Nolene. You don't have to apologize."
Nolene warmly smiles at Maya, "Thanks, girl."
She takes a deep breath and continues, "I just don't get it. I mean, they was supposed to contain the situation. Geoffrey didn't do nothing and just pretended like everything was normal. It--It makes no sense!"
"What was Geoffrey like?"
Nolene bends down to pick up the knickknacks that had fallen over, "Oh? He was...not a bad guy or anything. I just wish he had a little more spine. Anyway, he used to be a professor at the UOP."
"The UOP? You mean, like THE University Of Plaintry?"
Nolene nods and blows some dust of a knickknacks, "But then he got fired and the whole damn place shut down a few months later."
"Oh, right. A lotta older folk in this town remember the UOP fondly. I can't believe the former Prince was a Professor at that place. Huh." Maya thinks back to the many conversations she's had with this town's older folk.
Nolene lets out an exasperated sigh, "Yeah, he was something, that's for sure."
"It's a shame what happened to him and all the other Toreadors. I would have loved to meet some of 'em."
Nolene twitches and scrapes her fingers across a sharp object, "OW! Damn!"
Maya notices that Nolene is bleeding, "Nolene? What happened?"
Nolene grimaces as she lifts up her bleeding finger, "Shit. Sorry, I guess I got...clumsy. Never mind."
Nolene proceeds to pat the dust off her hand and lick the cut, "Ah, there. Who needs Band-Aid when you got tongue, hmm?"
Maya giggles and shakes her head, "Haha. Yeah." She notices something is off with Nolene. Something she cannot quite put her finger on.
Nolene looks at a nearby mirror and adjusts her afro. She spends the next minute or so, standing there, blankly looking at herself in the mirror, like she's...lost in thought or something?
Maya asks, "Hey, uh...Nolene? Are you OK?"
Nolene continues to stare at the mirror, "Hmm."
Maya steps closer and snaps her fingers, "Nolene? Hi? Hello?"
Nolene snaps out of whatever daze she was in, "Oh, Maya. Sorry. I was...I was...never mind." She shakes her head and sighs.
"It's OK, Nolene."
Nolene looks at Maya and smiles, "Y'know, I got a daughter."
"Oh, do--does she know that you're a--"
Nolene shakes her head, "I can't tell her that. No way, not now, not ever." She pauses for a few moments and says, "She's a paramedic. I sent her to live with some relatives when she was very young."
"Yeah, I'd imagine having a vampire for a mom would be kinda awkward at PTA meetings..."
Nolene softly laughs, "Heh, yeah. And her grandparents would probably pass out the second they saw me in the flesh."
Maya furrows her brows and asks, "I don't get it. Why don't you wanna tell her? I mean, I get the Masquerade and all, but still. Your own daughter, Nolene."
Nolene shrugs, "Well, I dunno. I...I guess I just wanna be a friend to her."
Maya almost screams out, "She knows you??"
"Yeah, she comes by the shop sometimes. However, I notice she's been kinda off lately."
"'Off' in what way??"
"She's always on edge. Always looking over her shoulder. Something ain't right, Maya." A look of worry comes across Nolene's face.
Maya asks, "You want me to talk to her or something?"
Nolene firmly states, "No."
Maya's lips curve into a polite smile, "OK. But I'm here if you need me, Nolene."
Nolene smiles and responds, "Thanks, girl."
Nolene looks over to the corner of the room. She gets up and heads over to a shelf. She grabs a package and heads over to Maya.
She hands the package to Maya, "Lucile ordered this a few weeks back. I guess it has something to do with her...experiments. Just came in a few hours back. Here ya go."
Maya graciously accepts the package. It is small and wrapped in brown paper.
She quickly unwraps the parcel and takes a look. There are a few vials of blood with an explicit warning to NOT consume it- the sticker of the skull and crossbones is in the middle of the label.
Underneath that, there is a note. It says: "Lucile, take this blood and mix it with a full cup of water. Purified water is preferable, but not mandatory. Leave it out in the sun for exactly 7 hours, then say the incantations. Repeat this process 7 more times."
There is an also attached receipt with the date and time. The payment has already been taken care of.
Maya nods, impressed by the thoroughness of these instructions, "Huh. That's...cool."
Nolene chimes in, "Yeah, Lucile's really good at that stuff, huh?"
Maya smiles from ear to ear, "Yep, she's...the best. I'm glad I met her." She places the vial back in the parcel and wraps it up again.
"Yeah, you 2 were meant for each other! Take it from someone who's been in love. Hold on to each other, tight." Nolene's eyes are filled with a hopeful glow.
Maya blushes, "Ahh, thank you, Nolene. It means a lot to hear that."
Nolene's expression changes as her eyebrows lower. She looks at Maya's brown eyes, "Those...eyes."
"Um...what?"
Nolene quickly shakes her head, "Ah, it was nothing. You got nice hair, Maya."
Maya strokes her red hair, "Thanks. And your 'fro is pretty awesome, too!" She chuckles.
Nolene softly smiles, "Aw, thanks. I try to maintain it." She sighs and sits down, "So, how has your night been so far?"
"Ehhh, it's been alright, I guess. You know about the Garou attack, right?"
"Yeah, I heard something about that. Werewolves, huh? Cray-zeee. I thought it was just us vampires." She takes a deep breath, "What happened, exactly?"
Maya looks down at the floor, "I--I don't really know. I just found their handiwork. I mean, me and Dylan found Frank's body. His arm was torn off."
She shudders and lets out a long sigh, "I'm not too keen on meeting a Garou anytime soon. I'm not the fighting type, y'know..." her voice trails off.
Nolene replies, "Neither am I, but I do what I gotta do if things get too crazy." She gets up and walks over to a drawer. She rummages around in it, looking for something.
She grabs a small shard of metal, "Here, take a look at this." She shows the object to Maya.
Maya nods and takes the object, "What's this??"
Nolene grins, "It's supposed to be a piece of a silver bullet."
"Really? Sweeet! Does it do anything?"
Nolene shrugs, "Honestly? I don't know. I just collect these things and sell 'em to people."
Maya's face brightens, "Can you show me where you buy them from?"
Nolene giggles, "It's a freakin' mess, Maya. Besides, my some of my suppliers are shady-ass types. They ain't the kinda people you wanna make friends with." She laughs nervously.
"You sure know your way around these things, Nolene."
"Eh, what can I say. I got a knack for the...unusual."
"All of us Tremere have a knack for the unusual."
Nolene gulps and weakly smiles, "Yeah...us Tremere. Sure."
Maya tosses the shard of metal into the air and catches it, "So, do you need this or--?"
Nolene holds up her hand, "Keep it. It's on the house, Maya."
"Thanks, Nolene!" She pockets the shard and asks, "How'd you get it?"
Nolene grimaces and says, "Some Malkavian sends me the randomest shit. It's like he thinks I'm his personal storage unit or something."
"Huh, cool."
"Yeah, that's one way of putting it."
"So, who's he supposed to be?"
"Dunno. We just exchange messages and chat on some occult forum every so often."
"Cool. Well, try and keep an eye out for any more silver. If we gotta fight Garou, I'll need all the help I can get."
"Will do."
Maya scratches the back of neck and asks, "You said you were married. What happened to your husband, if you don't mind me asking. I'm sorry if that's too personal."
Nolene shrugs, "Don't worry about it. It was a while ago, but the gist of it is he died in a workplace accident."
"I'm so sorry, Nolene."
"Yeah, well, I had to go through it all alone. I've had many bad days...and nights since then." She sniffles, "He was my first love and a good father to our daughter. He...he meant the world to me."
"I'm sure he did."
Maya hugs Nolene.
Nolene smiles and says, "Thanks, Maya."
"No problem, Nolene."
Maya and Nolene sit there, sipping their cups of blood, enjoying each other's company. The night is still young.
They spend a few hours talking about different subjects and laughing at their jokes.
However, as the clock strikes 1 AM, Nolene gets up and stretches her arms. Maya follows suit.
Nolene looks at Maya and says, "Well, you're welcome to stay as long as you like, Maya. But, I gotta close up the store."
Maya asks, "So, where's your Haven, Nolene? Is it close to the shop?"
Nolene chuckles and shakes her head, "It's in the basement of the shop. It's a pretty cozy place. I like it there. It's a bit messy at the moment, maybe I'll show it to ya another time?"
Nolene walks to the door and holds it open, "See ya around, Maya."
The bells jingle.
Nolene waves goodbye and says, "Don't be a stranger, girl! You're welcome here anytime!"
Maya waves back, "You too, Nolene. I'd love to have you visit our place!" She gets on her scooter and rides away into the night.
Maya heads back to her Haven. She smiles to herself as she looks at the quaint cottage from afar.
She speeds up and reaches her new place. She parks her scooter nearby.
She notices a black SUV parked nearby.
Eleanor is standing at the front door of her home. She is looking up at the moon, deep in thought.
Maya greets her, "Eleanor! Hiiii! What are you doing here?"
Eleanor greets her Childe, "Greetings, Childe. Where have you been?"
"Ah, out and about, y'know. It's a beautiful night, isn't it?" She smiles.
"Yes, it is. However, I came here for a different reason entirely."
"Oh?"
Eleanor doesn't say another word and walks to the backyard. She beckons Maya to follow her.
Maya follows Eleanor and asks, "So, what's up?"
"I would like to show you something."
"OK..."
Eleanor kneels down and points to the slightly disturbed patch of ground in the backyard, "Do you recognize this, Maya?"
Maya nods, "So, this is where you buried those 2..."
"Yes, Childe. The ground is a bit disturbed as you can see. Even now, these vile Methuselahs stir within the earth."
"Is--is that normal? Like, is the soil supposed to do that?"
Eleanor blandly responds, "Perhaps. Which is why we must apply a Blood Ward to keep them...pacified. It is the only way to ensure the safety of your Haven."
"But, I'm not sure I can--"
Eleanor holds up her hand, "Do not worry, Childe. It is a fairly simple procedure. I assume you have hunted tonight?"
Maya nods.
"Good, then, cut your finger and place some of your Vitae on the earth. After that, repeat after me."
Maya follows her Sire's instructions. She cuts her finger with her sharp claw and drops some of her blood onto the disturbed patch of ground.
Eleanor slits her palm with her fingernail and lets some of her own blood fall on the same patch of earth.
She then says, "I call upon The Pyramid."
Maya does the same thing and says, "I call upon The Pyramid."
"The power of The Seven flows through me and binds me."
"The power of the Seven flows through me and b--binds me."
"The Order Of Hermes is my lamp."
"The Order Of Hermes is my lamp."
"The Magus shall protect us from harm."
"Um...The Magus shall protect us from harm."
Eleanor stifles a sigh and continues, "By the power of Fedoso, I bind these creatures, these fiends and the darkness they harbor."
Maya nods and repeats the sentence.
Eleanor adds, "Let that which is below, stay below. Let that which is under, remain under."
"Let that which is below, stay below. Let that which is under, remain...under."
Eleanor bends down and draws a circle with the mixed Vitae. She then closes the circle with some sharp lines and symbols.
She adds more of her own Vitae to the circle and whispers something in an unknown language.
Maya isn't sure if she's supposed to follow, so she just stands there, watching her Sire use the power of Blood Sorcery to keep these 2 Methuselahs in their below-ground prison (of sorts).
Eleanor stands up and licks her palm. She looks at Maya and simply says, "Acceptable." She sighs and shakes her head.
Maya lowers her head and scratches her arm, "I'm trying my best, Eleanor."
"Be that as it may, your confidence is lacking, Childe. You must have confidence in yourself and in your abilities. You are a Tremere, after all." She crosses her arms.
Maya quickly nods, "I know, I know. And I'm already starting to feel that Compulsion for Perfectionism, but I'm still new to all of this."
Eleanor walks over to Maya and places her hands on Maya's shoulders, "That excuse will not last forever, Childe. At the very least, you should be able to raise your Auspex Levels as the nights go by."
"Sure, I...I can do that."
"Hmm. Will there be anything else, Childe?"
"Uh, yeah, actually. What do you know about the Baali Clan?"
Eleanor tilts her head, stares Maya down, and sternly asks, "Where did you hear of that Clan?" Her tone is icy and uncompromising.
Maya stammers and steps back a bit, "Uh...um, you told me about it during our talks." A boldfaced lie (that she might be able to get away with due to Eleanor's...forgetfulness).
The Elder Tremere rapidly blinks and rubs her chin, "I do not...recall ever telling you about Clan Baali."
She pauses for a few moments and asks, "What else do you know of them?" She crosses her arms. Her eyes are focused on Maya.
Maya avoids eye contact, "Uh, something about them being able to Re-Embrace Kindred?" She nervously chuckles.
Eleanor's lips curve into a polite smile, "Yes, that is correct, Childe. They are the only ones capable of such a deed. Moreover, they are extremely dangerous and unpredictable."
Maya mutters to herself, "You could say the same thing about the Lasombra."
"What was that, Childe?"
"N--Nothing. So, hypothetical question, if a Baali were to enter Plaintry, what would you do?" Maya asks, trying her best to sound nonchalant.
Eleanor's expression changes as she furrows her brows, "I would, in all likelihood, destroy them." Her voice is grim and calculated.
"Oh--oh, ok. Would you destroy a Lasombra, too?" Maya asks, still trying to sound casual.
Eleanor doesn't respond.
Maya scratches the back of her neck and lets out an awkward smile, "Just hypotheticals here, Eleanor. I'm not gonna go around looking for trouble or anything. Promise."
"Trouble, my dear Childe, has a way of finding us Kindred." She pauses for a few beats and adds, "However, I trust you to not do anything foolish, Maya."
Maya smiles and nods.
"Is there anything else on your mind, Childe? Anything at all?"
"Why didn't you or Lucile tell Nolene what really happened to Sheriff Jacques back in 1999?"
Eleanor raises her chin a bit and says, "Ah, so you 2 have been talking about that, hmm?" She lets out a small sigh.
"Yeah, and I don't get it. I mean, why lie to her about it? Why not tell the truth? She thinks he skipped this town and abandoned his duties."
Eleanor replies, "I did not wish to cause her any undue distress. She has enough on her plate as it is."
Maya shakes her head, "She HATES him, Eleanor. She used to be in love with him, now she has nothing but contempt for him."
Eleanor replies, "Sheriff Jacques knew the risks involved--"
"NO ONE did, Eleanor! He and those Nosferatu were sent on a suicide mission! And for what? To serve as a punching bag for 2 Methuselahs!" Maya's voice is raised. She is visibly upset.
Maya doesn't allow Eleanor to speak. She continues, "I mean, you and Lucile barely survived those fuckers! I--It was thanks to Theodore that you're both here, right now." She sighs loudly.
Eleanor simply nods. Her expression is blank. She doesn't say anything.
Maya continues, "So, I just don't get it. WHY did you and Lucile keep it from her? At least give her some closure. Let her know that he didn't just leave her behind."
Eleanor calmly replies, "I will give consideration to it, Childe."
Maya rolls her eyes, "I guess I gotta keep my mouth shut about this when I see Nolene again?"
"It would be preferable, yes."
Maya groans, "Gah. Anyway, when do I get to meet Mr. Theodore? He did save you and Lucile all those years ago and he sounds like a pretty cool guy."
Eleanor replies, "He is currently...busy at the moment."
"Any idea when he'll be free? I really REALLY wanna meet the other Tremere in this town, Eleanor!"
"In time, Childe. In time."
Maya looks around and remarks, "It's just so sad, Eleanor."
"What is?"
"Jacques. H--He was destroyed right around here while you and Lucile watched. I can't imagine how horrifying that must have been for you both." Maya shudders in fear.
Eleanor dryly replies, "Yes, it was quite traumatic, but we had to press on. Those Methuselahs had to be stopped, one way or the other."
Maya asks, "What happened after all of...that?"
"Lucile chose this cottage as her Haven. Theodore and a few other Tremere assisted in the renovations and paperwork."
"I know that, but what happened happened, y'know? Like, behind-the-scenes and all that?"
"It is improper to dwell on such things, Childe. Besides, the past is the past. We cannot change it. We can only learn from it." Eleanor's tone is blunt and uncompromising.
Maya sighs, "So, you covered it all up, then?"
"If that is what you wish to believe, then feel free to do so, Childe. Our entire existence is, after all, a cover-up," Eleanor blandly states.
Maya grumbles, "Hmphhh. I guess." She gestures to the ground and asks, "So, how long will this Blood Ward keep those 2 down? Also, have you found a better place to move 'em to?"
Maya looks down and frowns at the disturbed patch of ground, "It feels kinda...scary having them near our Haven."
Eleanor replies, "We are looking at expanding the House of Hermes. It is not an easy task, but it is necessary now more than ever. As for the Blood Ward, it should hold for a few weeks."
"Cool, cool."
Eleanor looks directly at Maya and says, "However, I strongly recommend you learn how to apply a Blood Ward, Childe. It is a fairly simple procedure, but it is one that is quite useful."
Maya nods, "I'll try my best, Eleanor." She looks to the side and plays with her hair.
Eleanor replies, "I am certain you will, Childe." She turns around and walks away.
Maya calls out, "Eleanor, wait!"
Eleanor stops in her tracks, "What is it, now?"
"Um...thanks. For everything, really. I mean it, Eleanor. Yo--You're a great Sire and I'm truly grateful for all you've done for me so far." Maya sincerely smiles.
Eleanor simply nods, "Very well, Childe. Do not disappoint us. Good night." She walks away.
Maya sighs and heads back inside. She throws herself on the couch and lays her head back.
"Helluva night. Sheesh!"
She looks at the clock and sees that she has a few more hours till sunrise. She yawns and stretches her arms. She gets up and heads downstairs to her bedroom.
She grabs her laptop, undresses, and gets comfy on her bed. She puts on some music and starts browsing the internet.
One thought nags away at the back of her mind: FBI Special Agent Björn Henrickson, the Baali (with his 8 feet tall shadow "buddy").
She hopes he'll do the right thing and present himself to Prince Lucas, but let's be real, he won't.
Was she wrong in withholding information from the Prince? From her Sire?
Maybe.
But, then again, she doesn't want to add to the growing list of problems. Especially since the Garou attack is still fresh on everyone's minds.
She sighs and increases the volume of her music. She scrolls through a few job search sites.
The sun is yet to rise. Maya has a few hours to herself. She types away on her keyboard, has multiple tabs open, and browses the web.
She checks her email and notices no new messages (apart from the ones from various media outlets "seeking comment"). She batch deletes those and groans.
She then goes back to another browser tab and opens up a forum website. She browses through the threads, looking for any interesting topics.
It's the website she was (and still is) a part of. It's all to do with vampires. People here claim to have encounters (mostly sexual ones) with what they strongly believe to be vampires.
Now that Maya is an actual vampire, she has to tread carefully when posting on these forums. She can't reveal too much, lest she violates the Masquerade.
She chuckles and grimaces as she browses through the various threads.
Maya debates closing her account entirely, but decides against it. She might need to use it for future purposes.
She goes back to the main page and scrolls through the latest posts.
After seeing the same claim for the 1000th time, Maya decides she's had enough Internet for one night. She closes her laptop and puts it aside.
She lays back on her bed and stares at the ceiling, "Ah, Lucile...if only you were here. I miss you so so much."
Maya grabs Lucile's Samsung Galaxy S8 Plus and decides to look through it. Lucile couldn't take it because the SI monitors nearly everything on nights such as these.
She finds a lot of text messages from antique dealers all across the country. Apparently, that's how Lucile sources most of the blood needed for her Thaumaturgical experiments.
Heh, go figure.
A few "rare antiques" are expected to arrive in a couple of weeks. Maya assumes they're blood vials and such. They've already been paid for and nothing is priced below 3 digits.
She also finds a few pictures of herself. There are also some selfies Lucile took with Maya. Maya giggles and smiles.
For fun, Maya takes a selfie with Lucile's phone and sends it to herself.
Maya spends the next hour or so looking through her girlfriend's phone. She laughs and smiles as she goes through the various texts, photos, and videos.
"Ha ha ha ha! Oh my God, Lucile! You're so hilarious!" She wipes away a tear of blood from her eye.
Maya puts the phone down and yawns. She looks at the time.
Yep, it's almost sleepy time. The sun is slowly rising and Maya can feel the effects of the dawn. She's getting sluggish and tired.
She puts Lucile's phone aside and closes her eyes.
In time, she drifts off to the inevitable day-sleep. As do all the other Kindred in this part of the world.
Fast forward to the afternoon...
The sun is brightly shining and beaming down on Plaintry. The streets are bustling with activity.
A bunch of cars are parked near The Gastronova restaurant.
Tim, Bernice's assistant, is standing near the entrance and talking to someone on his phone.
"Yes, Bernice. They'll be here soon. Of course, the VIP section on the first floor. Of course, of course. Sure, see you soon! Bye!" He hangs up and adjusts his yellow bowtie.
He looks around and mutters to himself, "Who the hell is gonna bother, anyway?" He shrugs and walks inside.
He makes his way to the first floor and watches as the staff quickly sets up the tables and chairs.
He paces around the room, making sure everything is in order.
He looks out the window and sees a few people milling about. He grumbles to himself, "Just come in already..."
Eventually, Bernice's (former) campaign staff members start arriving. They pour into the restaurant and head upstairs.
They sit down at the various tables and get comfy. Some individuals gasp and groan at the prices of some of the dishes.
Tim approaches them and says, "Good afternoon, everyone. I hope you're all doing well today."
A man in a blue aloha shirt and dark slacks shakes his head, "This is a send-off party, isn't it?"
Another individual in a brown blazer and olive slacks scoffs, "We all know it's over, Tim. Why is Bernice even doing this, anyway?"
Tim raises both hands in a placating gesture and attempts to calm down the disgruntled individuals, "Look, Bernice just wanted to do something nice, OK?"
A person in a beige suit loudly asks, "Where is she, anyway?!"
A man in a red flannel shirt and dark jeans smacks the table, "Does she really expect us...to just forget about what happened?!"
Tim groans but does his best to keep his calm, "We've already been over this. It's no use pointing fingers or naming names, alright? Just...let it go." He lowers his head and sighs.
"Maya fucking Weekes! That's who! Fuckin' chatty BITCH!" another voice bellows. People nod and grumble in agreement.
Tim shakes his head, "There's no need to do any of that. And, please, keep it down. This is a respectable place." He gestures to the people downstairs. Some of them are looking upwards.
Others are craning their necks to see what the commotion is. A few waiters are looking around and trying to determine whether stepping in and dealing with this is an official part of their job.
"Yeah, we're not talking shit. We're stating facts, Tim!"
A woman in a dark pencil skirt and off-white blouse laughs and asks, "Then, how else do ya explain why we're here today and not, y'know, trying to win an election?!"
Tim rubs his temples, "What's done is done. We can't go back and change things now. Point is, we just gotta accept it and move on."
A man in a polo shirt groans and asks, "Move on?! Easy for you to say, buddy! But some of us got reputations to uphold! You really think anyone's gonna give us a second look now?! No fucking way!"
He looks down at his hands, which are clenching into fists. He lets out a sigh as a man next to him tries to calm him down, "OK, OK, easy now. Easy."
Tim is getting agitated by the second. He angrily asks himself where Bernice is. He scratches his head and looks out the window.
Nope. No Bernice yet.
"Where is she?! Damnit..."
A person removes a pair of earphones and says, "Hey, let's get something to eat." A few individuals nod their heads in agreement.
A person wearing a faded brown suit asks, "What's a paneer?"
"Cottage cheese, I think. Yeah, let's get a few plates. Hey, Tim! Bernice is paying for this, right?"
Tim silently nods and goes back to nibbling on his fingers. He stares out the window, watching and waiting for his boss.
People slowly make their way to the ground floor of The Gastronova, but still no sign of Bernice.
30 minutes become 1 hour. 1 hour becomes 80 minutes. 80 minutes turn into an...hour and a half.
Waiters and waitresses walk up and down the stairs, bringing and taking away plates of food.
Tim does his best to maintain the illusion of a normal lunch. But, it's getting increasingly hard for him to do so.
Some individuals look around, confused. Others simply shrug and go back to their pork satays.
Bernice is the last to arrive. Eventually. "Fashionably late," as they say. She's resplendent in hot pink suit, ruby earrings, and white pumps. She's dressed to the nines. Her smile is beaming as she enters.
She takes off her Versace sunglasses. Her makeup is impeccably applied. Her hair is combed, straightened, and shiny. It's as if she stepped straight off a high-end fashion show.
The other people stop their conversation as soon as she enters. All eyes turn to the former mayoral candidate. Waiters and waitresses watch in awe, jaws hanging open.
Customers from the ground floor look up at her. They look at one another, whisper, and talk amongst themselves.
Some individuals in the crowd recognize Bernice. Some even take a quick picture or two.
The tabloids would kill for that kind of stuff.
Bernice takes it all in, the eyes on her, the attention, the muttering, and the envy. She relishes in it and takes a deep breath.
She does a curtsy nod and confidently strides to the first floor. Tim is in the corner, arms folded, moping. He's barely eaten a thing. Bernice shakes her head and approaches her assistant.
Tim doesn't make eye contact with his boss, "There you are! What took you so long?! We're almost done and--hey--"
He stops his sentence and just stares at his (former) boss, "My god, Bernice. You look amazing."
"Why, thank you, Tim."
Even the others put their utensils down and just look at Bernice, almost mesmerized.
Bernice gestures around the first floor, "So, is this everyone, Tim?"
"A few said no. That's to be expected, but this is most of 'em, Bernice."
Bernice slowly walks around the area and looks at her former campaign staff, "Oh, no, please continue. I was...held up." She chuckles.
A man with a red shirt and chinos says, "We...uh were gettin' hungry, Bernice. And you're paying, so yeah."
A few of Bernice's supporters from the ground floor cheer and clap at her. The rest either nod their heads, roll their eyes, or just ignore the spectacle.
A woman with shaggy blonde hair approaches Bernice and eagerly shakes Bernice's hands, "I believed in you, Bernice. A--And I still do!"
Bernice warmly smiles, "Thank you for your support."
The woman responds, "Don't worry, I've already blacklisted that stupid redhead from my store. She's not gonna be getting anything from us anymore."
The other individuals laugh at this, some give her a thumbs up and cheer her on. Bernice maintains her smile and says nothing.
Tim approaches Bernice and takes her to a corner, "They...really hate that redhead after what she said. Or did. You might...wanna, y'know, tell 'em to tone it down a bit?"
Bernice shrugs and simply says, "Why would I, Tim? She sank my career with her tongue. Sure, I'm not as peeved as others are, but that's because I know how to control my anger."
She stroke's her assistant's cheek with her manicured nail, "And they should probably learn that, too."
Tim stammers and lowers his head, "It's just that...we don't want anyone trying anything funny. What if someone got the idea to go to her place and do some crazy shit to it? Or--or to her. I dunno..." his voice trails off.
Bernice replies, "Hmm, I see what you mean, Tim. If such a thing were to happen, then we'll simply disavow and distance ourselves from it, won't we, darling?"
Tim gulps a bit, "Yeah, yeah, of course. Just wanted to give a heads-up is all..."
Bernice softly laughs, "You've done so, Tim. And, don't worry about the bills. I'll pay for everything on this lovely afternoon. Now, go, eat something."
Tim nods and asks one of the waiters for a menu.
Bernice sits down at one of the empty tables and takes in the ambiance of the restaurant. People are eating, drinking, and talking.
A few individuals occasionally glance in her direction, some of them nod. Others smile. While others give her...suggestive looks.
Tim approaches Bernice's table with his order of Lobster Thermidor. He sits down across from Bernice, "I'm...I'm really sorry this happened, Bernice."
Bernice rests her chin on her clasped hands and looks around, "Yes, well, what can we do about it now? Life is a series of disappointments and regrets. One must simply press forward and adapt."
Tim sighs and grabs a napkin to put over his lap. He pokes and prods his lobster with the fork and knife.
After a few minutes, Bernice's order arrives. She's ordered a plate of Salmon Wellington. It's steaming hot and smells absolutely delightful.
Tim asks, "Is it...Is it really over, Bernice?"
"Hmm?" Bernice looks up from her dish, a billow of steam obscuring her vision, "Ah, the campaign, you mean. Well, of course it is. I wouldn't have withdrawn if I could still salvage something from the wreck."
She pauses and adjusts her hair, "The truth is, it would have been far more humiliating and costly for the Party had I insisted on staying in."
She sips some white wine from a round glass and continues, "Besides, this'll all die down in a couple of weeks."
Tim swallows his food, "But the stigma, Bernice. Y--You slept with the woman writing a piece on you!"
"All the more reason for my withdrawal, Tim." She takes a bite out of her meal and looks down. She's frowning, clearly annoyed at the situation.
Tim squeezes some lime on his lobster and remarks, "You were...so close, too. I'm...I'm just really sorry about all of this."
He then asks, "What about the donors, Bernice?"
Bernice cuts up a small piece of her food and eats it. She replies, "I've been on the phone with them for the past few days...and nights. Many are quite disappointed. Some even want their donations back, in full."
She takes a deep breath, "It's been difficult for them to accept this development."
"I can imagine. Have you spoken to...Annette?"
"Come, now, Tim. You're starting to sound like one of those tabloid journalists. You know better than that."
Bernice sips some more wine from her glass, "The whole thing...was messy to begin with. She already had her side of the story out while we were still putting out the fires."
Tim sneers, "And it all snowballed down from there..."
Bernice and Tim spend the rest of their meal in relative silence. Bernice is interrupted by a supporter or 2 who wish to take a selfie with her. She, of course, obliges them.
The afternoon slowly dies down. The lunch rush slowly comes to an end. After a while, everyone finishes up their food and gets up to leave. Some people linger and wish to speak with Bernice.
Others simply wave, wipe their hands, and leave the restaurant.
Bernice looks at her lipstick stained glass and smiles. Tim removes his bowtie and undoes the top 2 buttons of his shirt.
"So, what now?" he asks as he looks around.
Bernice leans forward, "I'll have to let the others go, of course. But, I'd like you to continue on as my assistant. I can't imagine doing this all alone, Tim. I simply cannot."
Tim raises an eyebrow, "Of course, Bernice! But, what are you planning on doing next??"
Bernice looks at her nails and casually replies, "I've got some plans. There's no need to panic, Tim. Everything will be alright, you'll see."
Tim sighs, "If you say so, Bernice. If you say so."
Bernice confidently replies, "Oh, I do say so, Tim. I do...say so."
Tim asks, "So, how's the whole...thing with your parents, y'know?" He pauses for a second. He can sense her hesitation and discomfort when he brings it up.
She shrugs, "Nothing new. Still the same old kangaroo court nonsense. Speaking of, I did get a very interesting call yesterday evening."
"Oh, really?"
"Yes. A very raspy voiced gentleman by the name of Titus from a law firm I've never heard of before."
"Huh?"
"Tenebris Legal. Yes, this man said he could have the cases against my parents tossed out in under a month."
"Seriously?! You mean--whoa! That's amazing, Bernice!"
Bernice takes out a napkin and dabs the sides of her mouth, "Yes, Tim. It certainly is. Maw-maw and pops are going to be pretty thrilled about it, I reckon."
Tim smiles, "Well, this has turned into a pretty decent day after all! Good to hear something...positive for a change."
Bernice places her napkin on the table and takes a final sip of her wine, "Still, that wasn't the only offer I received."
Tim arches an eyebrow, "What do you mean?"
Bernice looks around and lowers her voice, "An...FBI agent by the name of Higgins came to see me after I announced my withdrawal from the mayoral race. He was pretty vague about his offer, but it sounded equally promising."
"You...don't sound convinced, Bernice."
She shrugs and says, "Not entirely. Still, his offer is not something I'm completely opposed to."
Tim nods, "Hmm. You uh...got a lot to think about, huh?"
"Indeed, Tim. So, how have you been keeping? Have the police found any leads on who did that awful thing to poor Kendra?"
He shakes his head and grunts, "Not really, no. They keep saying the same old shit and just making more empty promises. Like that's gonna nail the sick bastards who drained her!" He scoffs and crosses his arms.
He then asks, "Y--You know what the cause of her death was?"
"Exsanguination, Tim. Terrible. I'm truly sorry for your loss."
Tim lowers his head, "Th--Thanks, Bernice. I just need something to do. Something to stay focused on, to get my mind off--" tears well up in his eyes.
He sniffles and wipes away his tears, "It's not been easy these past few weeks. Not at all." His voice cracks. He sounds desperate and sad.
Bernice simply nods her head and rubs her thumb across Tim's shaking hand, "Now, how about we get some dessert before we leave? Hmm, what do you say?"
Tim shakily nods, "You d--don't mind? It's a pretty pricey place, Bernice."
Bernice dismissively waves her hand and proudly says, "Let me worry about that. Now, go on. Choose something nice."
"O--OK, sure. Sure, if you say so." He gestures for a waitress to come over to their table. He orders a piece of gold-sprinkled truffle cake. Bernice orders 3 Luxe Flavored Baklavas.
The waitress smiles and nods, "Sure thing." She speedily walks away.
Bernice chuckles, "One of my exes back in college introduced me to Baklavas." She licks her lips.
Tim fidgets with his fingernails and tears off a bit of skin, "Oh?"
Bernice nods, "Yes. I didn't like them at first, but he insisted. And, eventually, I came around to the idea." She smirks.
Tim clears his throat, "Bernice, I uh...wanted to ask you something."
Bernice leans back in her seat, "Go ahead."
Tim stammers, "I--I don't know if this is the right time o--or place..."
He looks around to make sure no one is within hearing distance. He leans forward and says, "I'd like to resume our...sessions, Bernice."
Bernice purses her lips and gently smiles, "Ah."
Tim gulps as Bernice's gaze becomes even more intense. He continues, "I've been thinking about it a lot lately. I--It helps me think straight when I'm with you. When you're--"
Bernice interjects, "In charge." She maintains her look of confidence and her voice is level and calm as can be. She's clearly enjoying this.
"Y--Yes. And, and I don't want you going easy on me, like before. I want...more." There is a certain hunger in his voice.
Desperation, sadness, loneliness. One, more, or all of them, perhaps.
Tim wipes away a bead of sweat from his forehead, "And...I thought, well, I thought maybe you could use the...y'know," he nervously laughs.
Without skipping a beat, Bernice gently nods, "Of course, Tim. I'd be glad to pick up where we left off. And I'd be glad to see what you can do. For me." Her smile is warm, but her eyes are cold.
The waitress arrives with Tim's cake and Bernice's Baklavas. She does a quick bow and leaves the 2 be.
Tim emptily stares at the sprinkles of gold on his truffle cake, "I'm...I'm ready."
A smile of satisfaction comes across Bernice's face, "Good. But first, I'll need to draw up a contract."
Tim takes his first bite, "Why can't we just use the old one?"
Bernice shakes her head and picks up her first Baklava, "The...old way of doing things is simply not going to work for us anymore, Tim. You must be more than willing, is that clear?" She takes half a bite.
She savors the taste, and then says, "After...what happened, things might not be able to go back to being the way they used to."
"Sure, I get that. I'll sign anything."
Bernice nods and elegantly eats the next half of her Baklava. She smiles, "Excellent."
"So, uh, should I come by tonight? Or will you--"
"Hmmm, eager, aren't we? No, no. It's too soon. Besides, you're not my only client, Tim. You have to earn your place. But, rest assured, you'll have your chance. I promise you that."
Bernice picks up the next piece, "Just not tonight, darling." She pops it in her mouth and winks at him.
Tim nods and looks at the remaining piece of Baklava on Bernice's plate.
Bernice breaks it in half and tells Tim, "Open up."
Tim looks around to make sure no eyes are watching them.
Bernice places the half-baklava on his tongue. Tim closes his mouth and waits for the command to chew and swallow.
Bernice eats her half and nods her head, "Good. I'll see you when I'm ready, hmm? Now, finish up."
Tim chews, swallows his piece, and nods, "Sure. Sure. Whatever you want, Bernice."
Tim goes back to eating the rest of his truffle cake. He grabs a clean fork and offers Bernice a bite.
She gracefully accepts. After a few more bites, Tim looks up and asks, "So, what now, Bernice? What do you plan on...doing now that the campaign is over?"
She shrugs, "Oh, I've got plenty of ideas, Tim." Her tone is ominous, but confident.
"Uh, whatever they are, I'll be there, Bernice. By your side." His eyes are filled with admiration and need.
"You always have been, Tim." She wipes the corners of her mouth with a napkin and gets up.
She reaches over and wipes his mouth, too.
She adjusts her suit and fluffs her hair. She raises her head up high and walks to the middle of the room.
Bernice grabs a champagne glass in her hand and gently hits it with a knife. She clears her throat and everyone's attention turns to her.
Even the other customers stop their conversations and look up. The waiters and waitresses watch intently.
"Ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for coming here on this lovely afternoon. I wanted to thank each and every one of you for your support and your continued generosity in these trying times." She pauses and takes a deep breath as her eyes glide across the room.
"I must admit, it has not been easy. For any of us. We were so close. The polls were going our way. The crowds, the media, they all loved us and, yet, they were taken from us in the blink of an eye--"
One of the former campaign staff members screams out, "More like the running of the mouth!"
Bernice maintains her composure, "Yes, well, let us not get bogged down in the details--"
"FUCK MAYA WEEKES!" another individual yells.
Some people cheer at this, but the majority of the crowd simply groans, shake their heads, or grumble.
Bernice takes a moment before continuing, "Well, as I said, let us not dwell on the past. For, we must look ahead. We must move forward. And we must not forget who it was that enabled us to make it this far."
She places a hand over her heart, and raises her glass of sparkling champagne to all those who've still decided to linger around.
She looks around the restaurant and nods her head, "To Plaintry and to the United States Of America! Cheers!" she raises her glass and the others follow suit.
Tim applauds her, almost a bit too eagerly.
The former campaign staff members are clearly uncomfortable, but they raise their glasses and take a sip of their drinks anyway.
Bernice looks around the room, "It is, undoubtedly, with a heavy heart that I must let you go, but know this, I will always remember you." She lets out a smile that would probably make a baby laugh (or cry).
Politicians...
Some acknowledge her, some gently clap, while others record her. They're already uploading this to the usual places- Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, etc.
Eventually, the crowd dissipates and they start to make their way out of the restaurant after saying their final goodbye to Bernice.
She greets everyone and thanks them for coming. It was a good campaign while it lasted.
That's what she tells herself, at least.
Bernice asks a waiter to bring the cheque.
The waiter blushes and looks at the waitress standing next to him. He nods his head, "Sure." He goes to retrieve the cheque.
Tim is in the bathroom, washing up.
A balding man with a drawn face approaches Bernice. He's wearing a navy blue suit and brown moccasins. He curtly bows his head and presents Bernice with the cheque.
Bernice opens it, scans it, and doesn't even bat an eyelid. She reaches into her small purse and places a credit card inside the cheque.
She nods and hands it over to the man.
He hands it over to a waiter and stretches out his hand, "I'm Mr. Janus. Co-owner of The Gastronova. Pleased to meet you, Ms. Matthews."
Bernice shakes his hand, which feels a bit rough and clammy, "Mr. Janus. This is truly a fine establishment you have here." She lets out a small laugh.
Janus laughs as well, "Yes, we believe in providing only the best. And keeping...undesirables out." He lets out a smile that reveals a few rotten teeth and a few golden dental crowns.
Bernice returns the smile, "You've done a great job so far."
He chuckles, "Of course. It is a shame about your campaign. I was planning on voting for you. You would've been good for business."
She chuckles and places a hand on her chest, "Well, it is what it is, Mr. Janus. I'm sure The Gastronova will continue to do very well."
Janus nods and glances around, "Oh, of course. The Gastronova will be going strong for many years to come. Perhaps longer."
Bernice asks, "Where is the owner of this fine establishment, if you don't mind me asking."
Janus vaguely replies, "Mr. Grayson is...currently unavailable at the moment. But, rest assured, he conveys his best wishes. He will be hearing about your visit." That last part sounds ominous for some reason.
Bernice's face remains neutral, "Of course. Well, I'll let you get back to work, Mr. Janus. And, again, it was nice meeting you." She extends her hand.
Janus takes her hand and looks deep into her eyes, "It is a pleasure, Ms. Matthews. I do hope we see each other again." His gaze feels almost menacing.
Bernice returns the look and replies, "Of course. I look forward to meeting this Mr. Grayson."
"I'm sure he shares your enthusiasm, Ms. Matthews." He lets go of her hand, nods, and walks away.
Tim comes out of the restroom and adjusts his belt. He holds back a burp and walks over to Bernice.
He asks, "Everything alright?
"It's quite alright, Tim."
Tim nervously tugs on his earlobe, "So, how much was it all?"
Bernice playfully says, "Take a guess, darling."
"Uh...5 grand?"
Bernice snickers and shakes her head.
"$7,500 or somewhere around that range?"
"No."
"N--No way. F--Five digits??"
Bernice calmly says, "$19,500. Plus taxes...and other charges. So, $23,000 in total."
Tim almost chokes on his own spit, "Wh--Wh--I didn't know it was gonna be THAT MUCH! Jesus Christ, Bernice!"
Bernice shrugs and says, "It's nothing, Tim. At one law firm I used to work at, our regular dinner bills would be 6 digits. Or more."
Tim nods, "Wow. I've got to say, that's really something. I mean, I can't even fathom--"
A waiter returns with the cheque. Bernice takes her credit card out and puts it back in her purse.
"A--Anyway, what now, Bernice? Where are you headed? Do you have some business to take care of?" Tim asks.
Bernice shakes her head, "I know you're keen on picking up from where we...left off, Tim. But, I have other things I want to do right now."
Tim looks around and asks, "Something else? What else is there?"
Bernice nods, "I've made a few...personal appointments with some people."
"OK..."
Bernice softly chuckles, "I might even go and pay Maya a quick visit. A supporter of mine sent me her address. How...cute. How thoughtful of them. Heh."
Tim asks, "Are you s--sure about that, Bernice?"
"I'm not going to hurt her, Tim. I simply wish to talk to her."
Tim scoffs, "Maybe ask that redhead why she ran her mouth like that. Where does she live, anyway?
"Some apartment not too far off."
Tim rubs his chin, "Oh? Hmm."
Of course, neither of them know that Maya moved out of there a few nights back.
Bernice elegantly makes her way to the exit, Tim in tow. They nod and wave at the waiters and waitresses. The people inside are still looking their way, and some even give Bernice a thumbs up.
One of the customers raises her glass high up in the air and nods at Bernice, "Keep fightin' the good fight, Ms. Matthews!" she yells out.
Bernice simply waves and smiles.
Bernice emanates an aura of elegant self-assurance where ever she finds herself. Even though the campaign is over, her life isn't. That's the image she wants to sell. She's always selling.
Always.
It's got her this far, why stop now?
She and Tim part ways. Bernice makes her way to a vacant apartment and Tim heads to his own home. He doesn't have much planned for the rest of the day. He just wants to spend some time...alone.
He hasn't quite gotten over the murder of his fiancé.
He gets home and slumps down on his leather couch. He grabs a framed photo of Kendra and him and sighs. He runs his thumb over her image and mutters, "We'll find 'em. And when we do..." his voice trails off.
Tears fall from his eyes. He doesn't wipe them away. He just stares at Kendra's smiling face. It was one of their many dates. She looked radiant that morning. And so beautiful.
A schoolteacher loved by her students. Strict when it mattered, but nice enough to be friends with. He met her during a school board meeting. That's how the 2 fell in love. That's how they ended up together.
She was an amazing woman. Truly.
Tim sobs uncontrollably as he stares at her face. Her bright smile, her beautiful blue eyes, her soft cheeks. Her everything. He kisses her image and cries out.
It's unlikely he'll ever find out the truth about what happened to poor Kendra. And even if he did, there's little to nothing that a simple mortal like him can do against an Elder vampire.
It's just not possible. It's not.
Later that evening...
Arman awakens from his day-sleep. He lies on his bed and stretches out his arms. He yawns and scratches his chest.
He then reaches over and checks his phone. Nothing out of the ordinary. He grunts and throws his phone aside. He gets up and goes for a quick shower.
After about 10 or so minutes, Arman picks his outfit for tonight. He decides on a simple, sky blue, slim fit, 2-piece suit along with a beige shirt. Very...Mediterranean.
He looks at his reflection and nods as he tugs on the lapels of his jacket, "Not too bad, if I do say so myself." He flashes himself a smug grin and leaves his bedroom.
Rolf greets his master, "Did master sleep well?"
"Ah, yes, thank you, Rolf."
Rolf nods and awaits further instructions for the night.
Arman casually walks over to his study. There's a small stack of papers he needs to finish looking over. Nothing urgent, but better to take care of it before anything else.
He sits down at his desk and calls Rolf in.
The Ventrue clicks a pen and begins reading over the documents. He nods and signs off on a few requests. He also adds some comments and notes, all of which are neatly written down.
He's a very organized man.
Arman looks up at Rolf and says, "I'm sure you have some idea of what we're going to be doing tonight?"
"Ja."
"Are you prepared?"
"Always, master."
Arman narrows his eyes, "And you have no...objections?" Of course, Arman doesn't care much for his Ghoul's opinion, he's just gauging Rolf's loyalty.
Rolf shrugs and replies, "If it's what master wishes. It is my duty." There's an emptiness in his voice.
Arman smiles to himself and seems satisfied with the response.
Rolf asks, "Would master like to feed now or after...Cross dead?"
Arman chuckles, "After, of course. Heh."
Rolf nods, "Ja. I go get ready now."
"Wear something...casual, Rolf. I'll need you to dispose of the bodies and the car after we're done. Something inconspicuous, please. I don't want you drawing even the slightest iota of attention."
"Ja. Rolf always discreet." The Ghoul walks away and gets ready.
Arman spends the next few minutes or so looking over his paperwork. He clicks his tongue and scratches his chin every now and then. He takes out his phone and texts Lenny.
"Is he coming or did he change his mind??"
Lenny takes some time to respond: "Of course he's coming. I told him you're a potential investor looking to diversify your portfolio. He's coming with his bodyguard."
Arman's fingers glide over the screen: "Fair enough. Just have the 6 million ready once it's done."
Leonard responds: "Gonna move some funds around tonight, don't worry. Also, we should probably wait a few nights before swooping in and buying Nimbus. Let things die down a bit."
Arman replies: "Good point. Let them...simmer a bit."
Leonard writes back: "Haha, of course."
Arman hears his doorbell ringing, multiple times. It also sounds like someone's banging on it, repeatedly.
Arman groans and quickly texts Leonard: "He's here."
Leonard replies: "Good luck..."
Rolf is at the door but waits for his master to arrive before opening it.
The banging and the constant bell ringing continue.
Arman arrives at the entrance. He quickly adjusts his hair and collar. He then nods at Rolf, who opens the door.
Standing there is none other than Camden Cross, CEO and founder of a startup named Ensure. It's to do with dietary supplements (or something).
He's 24 years old. He's got an oblong face, clean shaven. His dark, shaggy hair reveals a bit of his ears.
Camden is wearing an oversized t-shirt with a few Japanese letters scrawled along the front, and a pair of black cargo shorts.
The young CEO has an obnoxious look plastered on his face, "Yo, yo, yo! Sweet mansion, my dude!"
Arman stifles a sign and welcomes Camden and his intimidating bodyguard inside.
Radko looks to be in his 40s. The bags under his eyes and the wrinkles on his face testify of a boss that's just too much to put up with and handle.
His eyes are sharp and he has a slight stubble. His head is bald and covered in a tattoo of a spider web.
Camden immediately opens his mouth and points at Radko's head, "He lost a dare, so I made him loose his hair and get a sweet tat! Hahaha, oh, man!" He laughs like a hyena and slaps his bodyguard on the arm.
Radko simply lowers his head and says nothing.
Arman leads them to his large living room.
Camden looks around the place, his jaw hanging open. He nods and goes, "Oooooh, nice! Nice, veeery nice!"
He runs over to the the paintings that adorn the wall and inspects them, "Holy shit, bro, this shit is ancient! I can feel the vibrations of fuckin' medieval times from it, dude!"
Arman sighs and frowns a bit, "Yes, well, if you're quite finished admiring them, please, have a seat."
Camden laughs, "So, you a friend of the Big L?"
"Excuse me?"
"Leonard, dummy!"
Arman chuckles, "Ah, I call him Lenny. Yes, we're good friends. That's why he asked me to speak with you."
Camden nods his head and rubs his chin, "Yeah, yeah, he did mention a potential investor. Said you're looking to...expand or whatever. Hey, Ensure's always looking out for new opportunities and shit."
Arman politely smiles and extends his hand, "My name is Arman."
"Camden. Camden Cross."
Camden looks at Rolf and points, "Who's that meat sandwich over there?"
Arman quickly interjects, "Oh, that's Rolf. My bodyguard."
"Sweeeeet. I got my own Rolf, too. Hey, Radko! Say hi or something."
Radko curtly nods and simply says, "Hello."
Arman smiles, "Would either of you like something to drink? I've got some wine."
"Hell yeah! Hey, Arman, you mind if I livestream this?"
Arman shakes his head, "Actually, I do mind, Camden. I am a man who values his privacy, as I'm sure you can appreciate."
Camden grins and pulls out his phone, "Gotcha. But, I'm still gonna take a few pics of your digs, dude."
Arman clears his throat. Camden rolls his eyes and puts his phone away.
Arman tells Rolf to go fetch some wine for the soon-to-be-deceased guests.
Rolf bows his head and walks to the kitchen.
Radko leans forward and whispers something into Camden's ear.
Camden shrugs, "Chill, dude. Chill!"
Arman perches an eyebrow, "Is something the matter?"
"Nah, he's just reminding me about the Nimbus buyout. I put that on hold for now. You're a big shot investor and all, I can't fuckin' blow this, y'know?"
Arman simply smiles and nods his head.
Camden continues, "Besides, if they're right about it, we'll have plenty of dough to buy some more companies, heh."
"Why are you so interested in buying Nimbus magazine, Mr. Cross?"
Camden shrugs and throws his hands up, "Just for laughs. I asked my Twitter followers if they'd wanna see Nimbus get bought on livestream. They lost their shit!" He laughs again.
Arman's smile drops, "Ah, yes, I saw that video of yours. You're quite...online, aren't you?"
"It's the future, man! You gotta be connected if you wanna get ahead. It's a fuckin' dog eat dog world out there."
"Hmm, there is no disagreeing with you there, Mr. Cross. I see that you are a very ambitious man, hmm?"
Camden slaps his thighs and howls, "Hell yeah! That's how I got Ensure where it is today! With hard work and determination, baby!"
Arman nods and politely claps, "Bravo."
Rolf comes back and places a silver tray with 2 wine glasses on the large coffee table.
Camden grabs a glass and swirls it around, "Cooool. So, how old is she?"
"The wine or the glass, Mr. Cross?"
Camden cackles, "Both!"
Arman grimaces a bit, "Well, about a decade old, give or take a year or 2."
"Sweet!" Camden gulps the wine down in one swift motion.
Arman looks over at Radko, "What about him?"
Radko shakes his head.
Camden adds, "Nah, he's like...Orthodox or something. Y'know how hard I had to try to get him to lase his hair off?"
Arman sighs, "I can imagine. Would you like more wine, Mr. Cross?"
"Sure! Hey, can I have a couple of brewskis, too? You got any Heinekens or Bud Light?"
"I'm afraid not, Camden. I prefer things of a...higher caliber."
"Whatever, dude, whatever. Suit yourself."
Rolf brings over a bottle of red wine and refills the empty glass.
Camden drinks the glass in one gulp. Again.
Arman suggests, "You're supposed to...savor it, Camden. Sip it, enjoy it. Appreciate it." There's a condescending tone to Arman's voice.
Camden makes a funny face, "I'll keep that in mind, dude. But I'm just not a slow guy. I'm like a fuckin' shark on Speed, man. I gotta keep moving, keep going."
Arman smiles and nods.
Arman clasps his hands together, "So, shall we discuss...business? I'm sure you didn't come all this way to drink my wine and talk about life, hmm?"
Camden nods his head, "Damn! Straight down to biz, huh? Yeah, let's chat!"
Of course, there's nothing to...talk about. Arman is just biding his time. Stalling, waiting for a perfect moment to strike.
The Ventrue looks at his Ghoul and subtly nods.
Showtime.
Rolf stands within striking distance of Radko, who is just still as a statue and a bit tired from his boss's antics.
Camden raises an eyebrow and asks, "Something up? Yo, I was thinkin', maybe you'd like to be on the board? We could use guys like you. Y'know, suave and shit!"
Camden continues, completely oblivious to what's about to happen, "Y'know, you got that whole...vibe."
Arman glances at his Ghoul and subtly shakes his head, "Vibe?"
"Yeah, y'know, the 'mysterious guy who's only interested in money and business' vibe. We can market you like that!"
"Hmph. Well, I am always open to new opportunities."
Camden puts his feet up on Arman's coffee table, "So, how much you willing to throw at me?"
Arman notices Camden's feet on his table but opts to not say anything about it, "Well, how much are you asking for, Mr. Cross?"
Camden looks up at the ceiling, "Oh, uh...like 75 million."
Arman blinks, "Excuse me?"
"Yeah, that's like...a minimum investment, y'know? But, we're cool with any amount, man. We'll take whatever you've got." He laughs and scratches his neck.
Arman asks, "Don't you think you might be valuing your startup a little too highly?"
Camden shrugs, "It's about the future, dude. You gotta think about what Ensure is gonna be like, in the year 2020. And, hey, Nimbus might be a part of that future, too."
He shuffles in his seat and continues, "So, if it goes well, we'll have a good fuckin' reason for investing in the future, right?"
Arman takes a look around, "Hmm, it is...certainly a bold idea. However, 2020 is a long way off, Camden. Tell me Ensure's plans for the next year, at least."
Camden nods, "Yeah, yeah, sure. So, we're gonna do a whole, like, health drink and vitamin combo for the general public, y'know. Maybe get into the powdered supplements market, too. Heh."
"Is there a big demand for whatever it is your startup...sells?"
"Hell yeah, dude! I'm in the middle of Silicon Valley, man! You got a lotta tech people there, y'know? Like, A LOT. Fuckin' A, there's a demand." He pauses. His face becomes a bit more serious.
He narrows his eyes and asks, "Y'know, you look kinda pale around the neck, man. Maybe you need some Ensure in your life. And your eyes look all hollow, dude, it's kinda freaky."
Camden chuckles, "Maybe YOU need a vitamin shot or something. Like, not right now, but y'know. In the future."
Arman claps back, "You're not exactly in a position to be giving out medical advice, are you, Mr. Cross?"
"Naaaah. I'm more of an...alternative medicine kinda guy, dude."
"Hmph. No surprise there. Is everyone in your Silicon Valley milieu as...eccentric as you are?"
"I guess so. What's a mil-i-eu?"
Arman sighs and rubs his temples, "You did go to school, didn't you, Mr. Cross?"
Camden snorts, "Yeah, but I dropped out of like half the classes so I could do more important shit."
"Oh, and how did that turn out?" Arman looks Camden directly in the eyes.
Camden points to himself, "How do you think, dude? I'm gonna be in the 'Forbes 30 Under 30' list this year! Fuck yeah! Ensure is gonna be the big man on campus, wooo!" He slams his fist on the couch.
Camden adds, "I got a whole fuckin' fleet of fancy ass cars. Teslas, mostly. I love Tesla's. They're like fuckin' sci-fi cars."
Camden continues his...flexing, "I got a super hot girlfriend with a huge ass," he whistles. "And a jet. And a bunch of other shit. You get it, right?" He grins and shows off his teeth.
Arman nods, "You've made quite the name for yourself...in such a short span of time. That, I suppose, is something to be proud of. But, I digress. Let's get back to business."
"Oooooh. Like, what kinda biz?" Camden rubs his hands together. There's a glint in his eyes. He knows he's in for a good deal.
Or so he thinks.
"Nimbus, Mr. Cross. What exactly are your plans with it?"
"I'm gonna cut the fat, digitize that shit, and fill it with ads. We could sell out content to some fuckin' insurance company or cement provider or whatever, and they'd probably pay us shit ton of dough, dude!"
"That...is your grand plan?"
Camden scratches his face, "Uh, yeah, mostly. I'll just figure it out after I buy the thing. But, my followers on Twitter said a 40% staff reduction was the best move, so, y'know, I'm gonna do that. That's the Camden Cross way."
Arman chuckles, "Ah, yes, Cross Nation. Your online followers...they're quite important to you, aren't they?"
"Hell yeah. They've got power, man! They're gonna make me rich beyond belief! I livestream on Twitch almost every day. I just walk around with my camera and do whatever."
"I must admit, I am quite...out of the loop when it comes to these sorts of things."
"My brand is called Cross Nation, so I do all kinds of cuh-ray-zee things on my streams--"
"Like having a spider web tattooed on your bodyguard's head."
Camden laughs, "Yeah, exactly!"
"You know, Mr. Cross, it is indeed true that I am not as tech-savvy as you are."
Arman steeples his fingers and leans forward, "I prefer to do things the old-fashioned way. I prefer a...more personal touch in all my dealings, if you will."
Camden does a fake yawn, "You sound like a dinosaur, dude."
Arman lets out a slight sigh, "I just think that a startup like yours would be better served by a...more competent person. Or persons."
Arman stands up and approaches Camden.
Camden laughs, "Hey, I'm pretty damn smart, OK?! I built that fucking start--"
Arman calmly says, "I'm afraid we're done here, Mr. Cross."
"You're joking, right? Dude, you gotta be fucking kidding me! You know how long--" Camden springs up and pulls out his phone.
Arman nods over to Rolf.
The Ghoul grabs Radko from behind his neck and viciously smashes his head into a small table nearby.
Rolf proceeds to snap Radko's neck, and the bodyguard goes limp.
The Ghoul lets go of Radko and throws the body aside.
Camden's eyes widen. He taps on his phone and cries out, "You--You motherfucker! I'll sue you, yo--you know who my father is?! You know who my fuckin' cousins are?!"
Camden whimpers as Arman steps closer and places his hands on Camden's shoulders.
"I do not care who...any of them are, Camden."
Camden blinks and looks at his bodyguard's limp body, "Wh--why'd he kill Radko??" His lips shake and his eyes are frozen open.
Camden tries to break free, but his efforts are in vain. He spits in Arman's face, "Luciano Donovan! My cousins will find you and they--they'll fuck you up!"
Arman wipes the spit off and laughs, "I might've heard that name before. But it doesn't matter."
Camden tries to wiggle free but Arman's preternatural grip is firm and unyielding, "Let fucking go of me!"
Arman replies, "I'm afraid this is the end of...Cross Nation."
Camden gasps as Arman reveals his fangs, "What the fu--"
Arman pushes Camden's neck to side and pulls him closer. He bites down and sinks his fangs in.
The Ventrue begins sucking Camden's blood out.
No, he's guzzling it.
Camden slowly wheezes as he feels his life slipping away, "Please...stop...please, no, please..." His voice is hoarse and he's struggling to speak.
Arman has his mouth pressed up against Camden's neck. Rolf just stands and watches.
Arman stops for a brief moment and says, "So, that's what it tastes like, hmm? Interesting."
Camden is pale and shivering, on the brink of death. Arman sinks his fangs back in and continues drinking.
Blood drips out from Arman's chin and onto the floor. Camden goes completely limp and his body slumps down.
Arman lets the body hit the floor with a thud. He kneels down next to Camden and strokes his hair.
"Hm. Such a waste."
The Blue Blood turns around and sees Radko's dead body, head bloodied and neck snapped like a twig.
"Rolf."
The Ghoul replies, "Ja, master?"
"Did you have to smash that man's head on that table? It was quite an expensive piece, all the way from Hong Kong. What were you thinking?"
Rolf lowers his head, "Sorry, mein master."
Arman sighs, "Yes, well, prepare to dispose of the bodies and the vehicle they came in. I think the car keys might be with the bodyguard."
Rolf nods and goes to search the body.
Arman stands up and wipes his mouth, "I suppose that's it for the night. Go ahead and--"
Arman immediately feels a sharp pain in the pit of his undead stomach. He almost keels over and spasms. He falls on his knees and clenches his stomach.
He tries to crawl to the nearest table for support.
"Master? MEIN MEISTER (DE: MY MASTER)!" Rolf desperately calls out as he rushes to his Domitor's aid.
Arman grits his teeth as he grips Rolf's shoulder for support. Arman makes a few guttural sounds and shakes his head from side to side.
"Aaaaarghhh!"
Rolf bends down and asks, "Master? Master, are you--"
Arman's fingers dig deep into Rolf's shoulder.
Just then, a river of scarlet vomit shoots out of Arman's mouth and splatters all over his precious floor and furniture.
Rolf yelps as he's hit with a bit of blood splatter.
Arman gurgles as he coughs uncontrollably. More scarlet liquid vomit mixed with what looks like ash come pouring out from his mouth and nose.
He starts violently convulsing.
Rolf immediately runs to the kitchen and retrieves a bag of blood. He rushes back and nearly slips on his master's vomit.
Rolf puts the bag to Arman's lips, and says, "Master, DRINK!"
Arman's hands are shivering. He opens his shaking mouth, and lets the blood slip inside. He clamps his mouth down and greedily sucks at it.
Rolf rubs Arman's back, "Please, master, drink!"
In a few seconds, the bag is empty. Arman's grip on his Ghoul's shoulder loosens and he seems to be coming around.
Arman groans and rubs his chest, "Oh, god. I'm not doing that again."
Rolf helps Arman up and leads him to a seat. Arman sits down and grumbles as Rolf wipes the blood and vomit off him. His suit is a wreck.
Rolf asks, "What...happened, master?"
Arman wipes his face with a cloth, "It's probably too hard for someone like you to understand, but it is the Bane of my Clan- Rarefied Tastes."
Arman sniffs, "Why do you think I ask you to...procure all those young women for me? Hmm? It seems that those like them are the only ones I will be able to feed from for all eternity."
"I see."
"But you should know by now that I do not like to show weakness. Still, my foolhardy curiosity got the better of me and I wanted to know what that wine tasted like." He gives Rolf a cold stare.
Rolf nods, "It happens, master. Sometimes I eat many bar of chocolate. More than I should."
Arman weakly chuckles, "Ah, Rolf. You are truly something."
Arman leans back in his seat and grunts a bit, "Anyway, you better get to disposing of these bodies. Also, clean up the mess." Arman huffs and closes his eyes.
Rolf nods and leaves him alone. He retrieves some bleach from the kitchen. He also grabs a mop and a bucket. He gets to work on cleaning up the blood and scarlet vomit.
He doesn't ask his master any more questions.
Arman just lays back and hums to himself.
Rolf asks, "Would master like proper meal?"
Arman shakes his head, "No, no. I'm quite fine."
Rolf says, "Of course." He goes back to his cleaning.
After a few minutes, Rolf's done. He goes to search Radko's corpse for the car keys. He finds it and holds it up.
Arman orders his Ghoul, "Put the bodies in the trunk, drive as far away from here as possible, and...well, I'll leave the specifics to you, Rolf."
Rolf responds with a simple "Ja," and gets to work.
A few minutes pass and Arman is back in his study, at his desk, with a tablet in his hand. He's in the process of writing a couple of emails. He clicks send and leans all the way back in his chair. He stares at the ceiling and sighs.
His eyes meet with Rolf, who is standing by the entrance of his study, with a stern look on his face.
Arman raises a brow, "Yes, Rolf?"
"I leave and go dispose of bodies and car. Will master be needing anything before I go?"
"I think I'll be fine, thank you. Just make sure that NO ONE sees you, Rolf. I needn't remind you of that."
"Of course, master." Rolf nods and exits the room.
Rolf, so far, has been faithful to a fault. That is precisely why Arman keeps him around. And, even if he is not perfect, he will do anything he's told.
Anything...
After a few hours, Rolf returns. He took the bus and walked the rest of the way back to Arman's Haven.
Arman asks, "Done? Was there any trouble?"
"No, master."
"Good. As far as the world is concerned, Camden Cross is simply...missing."
"Ja. Good story, no?"
"Perhaps. The media and the police will chase dead ends and empty leads for years to come. I'll leave it be as long as it doesn't...intrude upon my business."
"Will it be a concern for master's business?"
Arman replies, "As long as you disposed of the bodies and the vehicle without drawing any suspicion, there shouldn't be any problems. Hm. Not for now, at least."
Rolf asks, "For now?"
"These things, my dear Rolf, have a habit of rearing their ugly heads when you least expect it, hmm?"
Arman picks up a few papers off his desk, "You are positive that absolutely no one saw you?"
Rolf nods, "Ja. I took long route and avoided traffic, too."
"Hmm, excellent. Did you notice anyone...or anything out of the ordinary?" Arman is desperate to make sure that all loose ends have been tied up.
"Ja. No problems there, either."
Arman nods his head in approval, "That's good. You know, Rolf, you are truly one in a billion. I could not have asked for a better...Ghoul."
Rolf bows his head, "I could not have asked for better master."
Arman smiles and says, "Bring the car around. I have that meeting at that rundown auditorium. I really wish we could do this at a better place, but alas, it serves its function and nothing more."
"Ja. Should I clean the car first?"
"No need. Just drive straight there."
"Ja, master." Rolf heads out to bring the car around.
Arman looks around and thinks to himself, "All in good time. Little by little, the pawns are being moved into place. Piece by piece," he chuckles to himself and rubs his chin.
The car arrives and Arman makes his way out. He sits in the front and tells Rolf to drive slow.
And the rest of the night passes by rather uneventfully.
Chapter 14: A Week With Ms. Weekes
The rest of the days (and nights) go on with nothing out of the ordinary happening. Or, at least, that's how it looks.
It is now officially 1 week (7 nights, to be precise) since the Embrace of Maya Weekes into Clan Tremere. It has been...quite the ride for her.
Plenty of ups and an equal number of downs, too.
For most people, a week is just a week. But, for Maya, it's been an interesting rollercoaster of love, doubt, uncertainty, and...a smorgasbord of other emotions and feelings.
On the one hand, she feels liberated. Free, even. She's also a little scared, nervous, and unsure.
Is this...good? Is this normal?
Has it been good or normal so far?
Lucile and Maya continue to speak via their 90 second thing, but it gets increasingly harder as Lucile moves westward. Lucile says she has no idea on when she might be getting back.
The other Kindred go about their Unlife as well.
Arman and Ginny announce that they are now officially dating.
For whatever reason, Prince Lucas gives Arman a bit of a cold shoulder. Looks like whatever Simon said to him about the Ventrue is worming its way through his mind.
Maya's Sire, Eleanor, seems to be getting even more forgetful. Attempts to talk to her about it are met with silence (or scorn).
Nolene and Maya become good friends. The 2 plan on going bowling, but Nolene's all wrapped up in her court case and she's pretty vague about what it's all about.
Chaska becomes the de-facto right-hand man to Prince Lucas, and is generally around whenever he is. They get along rather well and they've known each other for years, so that's good.
Maya awakens from her day-sleep. The sun has long set. She rubs her eyes and gets out of bed. She brushes her teeth and heads for a quick shower.
She stands under the shower as the water runs down her cold, naked body. She just stands there for a few minutes.
She thinks about all the decisions she's made, both the big and the little ones.
Both in life and Unlife.
And then her mind drifts off to...Lucile. Of course.
Maya just wants her girlfriend back. That's all. She wants to hold her, kiss her, and be with her.
She thinks back to what happened to her the last time she was with Lucile. That memory is still fresh in her mind. The (unfinished) Blood Bond between them still lingers.
Maya can feel her dead heart act up. Her fingers rub against her throat. She thinks about all that could ever be between her and Lucile.
All that will perhaps be.
Her mind races, and she has very little idea of what comes next.
After about 15 minutes or so, Maya steps out of the shower and dries herself off.
She checks her phone and notices a message from Edgar, her former boss. It reads: "Maya. Got a great opportunity for you. You're not gonna want to miss this, trust me. Meet me @ Nimbus tomorrow evening. Just trust me on this, OK?"
Maya sighs and frowns as she replies: "Nimbus?? Is this some kind of joke, Edgar?"
Maya wasn't expecting it, but he immediately replies: "I know that Nimbus is probably the last place you wanna set foot in after what happened. I get it, believe me, I do, but this is important. I promise."
Maya sighs and replies: "Fine. I'll be there. This better NOT be some kind of sick joke, Edgar"
"It's not."
Maya taps on the screen: "Will...she be there, too?"
Edgar responds: "No. This offer is just for you, Maya."
"Are you sure?"
"I don't know if you heard, but Annette's got mandatory community service. A 100+ hours, IIRC. Don't be late, OK?"
Maya's reply: "Fine. I'm only agreeing to this cuz my current job search is looking pretty damn grim."
"I understand, Maya. Have a great evening."
"You too, Edgar. Say hi to the kids for me."
Edgar replies with a thumbs-up and heart emoji.
Maya tosses the phone on her bed. She finishes drying herself off and puts some clothes on.
Maya slouches her shoulders and scratches her arm. She wonders what Edgar could possibly want, and why does he want to meet her at...Nimbus?
She had no idea what awaited her.
The Tremere Fledgling thinks to herself, "It better not be the past repeating itself..."
She quickly snaps out of her grim thoughts and shakes her head.
She grabs her laptop and turns it on. Like last time, she clicks on the link and patiently waits. She's given a random username and avatar.
"://INIT..."
Maya looks at the time. Last she heard, Lucile's supposed to be somewhere in Indiana by now. Or was it North Dakota?
Maya rubs her chin as she tries to remember. She waits and waits and waits. Eventually, the session times out and the screen goes black.
Maya angrily shuts the laptop and grunts. She just hopes Lucile comes home safe and sound.
Whenever that is.
A few tears of blood flow down Maya's cheek. She sighs and goes upstairs to her living room.
She's about to head for the kitchen when she hears a knock on the door.
She isn't expecting any visitors. Maya slowly walks over to the door and readies her claws.
She then asks, "Who's there?"
A distinctly Irish accent replies, "A friend."
Maya's claws go back in, "Oh. What does this 'friend' want?"
"Aye, I'm a friend of Lucile's!"
Maya's eyes light up when she hears Lucile's name. She opens the door, revealing a person wearing a studded leather jacket and torn jeans. They have a stocky build and their hair is black, styled in a messy concave cut.
Maya asks, "Hi. You are...?"
The stranger extends their gloved hand and says, "O'Malley. Jean O'Malley. Clan Ravnos. Pleasure to meet you, Maya."
Maya shakes their hand and asks them to come in, "You said you were a friend of Lucile? How is she? Is she OK??"
"Aye, she's doing fine, love."
Jean whistles and looks around the place, "Lovely little Haven you got. It's just as grand as she said it was."
Maya's eyes widen, "You talked to Lucile? Where is she? Where is she right now??" Maya desperately wants to know.
Jean winks at Maya, "Ah, you miss her, eh? Yeah, she misses you a lot, love."
Maya asks, "How do you 2 know each other?"
Jean replies, "I'm a courier for the Midwest. Well, most of it anyway. I like Lucile's ride; that red Chevy's a thing of beauty, y'know?"
"Yeah, it sure is. Here, c'mon in, make yourself comfortable."
"Aye." Jean walks in, removes their gloves, and plops down on the couch nearby.
They ask, "You got anything to drink, love?"
"I'm sorry, no. I didn't even...drink anything, too."
"No bother, I'll find a warm body later."
Maya nervously says, "I'm really sorry, Jean."
Jean waves their hand is dismissal, "No worry about it, love."
Maya sits down and asks, "So, tell me, Jean. How is Lucile doing? Is she alright? What's the situation out there?"
Jean chuckles, "Lucile said you were a worrier, haha. As for the situation, it varies."
"So, what are doing all the way up here, Jean?"
"Here to hand over some wee flash drive to yer oul fella."
Maya scratches her head in confusion, "'Yer oul fella'?"
Irish slang is something Maya's not familiar with.
"Aye. Prince Lucas. I'm also here to pick up a few packages and make some extra cash."
"Oh, so how long have you been doing the courier...thing for?"
"A wee while. Speaking of cash," Jean reaches into their pocket and pulls out a wad of crispy cash, "Lucile wanted me to give you this."
Maya gingerly takes the money and asks, "Uh, thanks, but why would she want me to have this?"
Maya counts the cash- $1,200. All fresh, crispy $100 bills that look like they came straight off a bundle.
Jean smiles, "She made $2,400 doing some deliveries. Wanted you to have half, she said you deserved it."
"Wow, really? But why?? Also, wow, Kindred couriers make THAT much?" Maya looks at the cash in her hands. She's not complaining, though.
It's a good chunk of change.
"Cause she loves you. And yeah, we couriers do make 4 digits. Minimum. But that's just me, it's not all about money, though," Jean's smile fades a bit.
"That's...really generous of her. If o--or when you see her, tell her I said thanks."
Jean nods their head, "Aye. Will do, love. Will do."
Maya puts the money away and asks Jean, "So, did Lucile say anything else?"
"Naw. She just wanted me to check on you. Make sure you were OK and safe. She...said that she might not be able to 'chat' every night due to time zone differences. She said you'd know what that means."
Maya clicks her tongue, "Ah. Damn. That...sucks." She looks away and sighs, trying not to let it get to her.
Jean says, "Anyway, Lucile seems like a lovely lass. You 2 are quite a good match, eh?" they flash a cheeky smile.
Maya smiles back, "Yeah. I'm just hoping that she'll come back soon, y'know?"
"Aye. We got to talking a bit. Lucile told me about herself and I told her a bit about me." Jean looks a bit concerned.
Maya narrows her eyes, "Is everything all right, Jean?"
Jean doesn't immediately respond as they stare blankly at the floor.
"Jean..."
Jean snaps out of their daze, "Ah, sorry, love. It's just, well, we were chatting and, y'know, I got to talking about meself. Not something I like doing very much."
Jean pauses and clears their throat, "Anyway--"
Maya asks, "Y'know, I actually wouldn't mind knowing a bit more about you, Jean. You seem like a...cool person."
Jean laughs, "Cool? I've been called many things, love. But 'cool' is probably not one of them. Most people call me a dryshite," they chuckle a bit.
Maya looks confused, "Dry-shite? I feel like you're speaking a different language here, Jean. Haha."
"If the accent didn't give it away, I'm Irish, love," they snort and cross their arms.
"Oh, uh, right. Cool!"
Jean slightly unzips their jacket, "I'm not used to telling random people about my...history. Not in a long while, at least," they sigh.
"You don't have to if you don't want to, Jean."
Jean shrugs, "Ah, what the hell. I'll give you the abridged version. I'll tell you the same thing I told your girl."
Maya gently nods, "Whatever's comfortable with you, Jean."
Jean nods, "I've been a Ravnos for close to 15 years now. Last I heard, my Sire got fuckin' charred. Shame..." they shake their head.
"Was your Sire the one who got you into..." Maya gestures her hand around, "...the whole courier thing?"
"Naw. That was something else entirely, love. The short story is I was a getaway driver for a Malkavian bank robber. The job went tits up after he killed the security guard."
"Oof. Sounds rough. What happened to the robber?" Maya looks on with concern.
Jean laughs, "He got the Sheriff's sword. The Prince in that city was a real law-and-order type of bastard. I, on the other hand, was offered a wee choice. I'm sure you can guess what that choice was, Maya."
Maya slowly nods, "The sword or courier duty?"
Jean points at Maya, "Bingo!"
"Why'd they give you a choice, though?"
Jean shrugs, "Hell if I know, but if it means not being on the chopping block, I'll fuckin' take it. This whole vampire thing has been quite grand...so far."
Jean chuckles, "Besides, a Ravnos courier makes a lot of sense. We Daredevils are always on the move, never stopping. Our Clan Curse keeps us moving and moving. It's why we're still around, eh? You could say we're like a fuckin' bullet train."
Maya smiles, "Heh, yeah. Wow, that's quite the story, Jean."
Jean shrugs, "That's not even a quarter of it. If I'm in the mood, I'll tell you the rest--"
Just then, a knock is heard on Maya's door.
Maya springs up, "Huh, what? Who? Oh, hang on." She walks over to the door and slowly opens it.
Eleanor and Nolene stand on the other side.
Maya gasps, "Oh, uh...hey! C'mon in, I guess. Hi, Nolene! Hi, Eleanor. You 2 look...nice."
Eleanor walks in and notices Jean lounging on the couch, "Ah, I see you have...a guest."
Jean flashes the peace sign, "Aye. Name's Jean O'Malley! Lucile's told me all about you, Eleanor."
Eleanor raises her chin a bit, "And who might you be, hmm?"
"I'm a courier from the Midwest. Clan Ravnos."
Eleanor gives them a quizzical look, "Oh, yes, right. How is Lucile keeping?"
Jean nods and smiles, "She's doing fine. Told me to tell you to keep an eye on Maya over here."
Eleanor simply glances at Maya.
Jean chuckles and nods towards Nolene, "Hello there...?"
Nolene steps forward and extends her hand, "Nolene. Clan T--Tremere."
Jean shakes Nolene's hand, "Aye, another one, eh?"
Nolene politely smiles, "Uh...yeah."
She sits down next to Jean and looks around Maya's Haven.
Eleanor puts her large purse on the table and takes something out. It's a large piece of paper.
Maya asks, "What's that?"
The Elder Usurper replies, "It is a copy of the Tremere Code. It is the oath that you must swear. The Code is a very important thing and, as your Sire, it is my duty to make sure you adhere to it."
Eleanor hands the paper over to Maya.
Maya quickly scans it as she whispers, "So...I'm supposed to recite ALL this?"
Eleanor perches an eyebrow, "Will that be a problem, Childe?"
Maya gulps, "N--No, not at all. Nope."
Nolene chimes in, "Go easy on her, she's just a Fledgling."
Jean nods in agreement.
Eleanor sighs, "It has been 7 nights since your Embrace, Maya. It is therefore imperative that you take the oath."
Eleanor sits down in an armchair.
"Now, read it. All of it. Loudly. Do not falter and DO NOT skip any of it."
Eleanor gestures to Nolene and Jean, "These 2 will serve as witnesses."
Jean and Nolene nod.
Jean says, "Aye. Why not?"
Nolene smiles at Maya, "You got this, girl."
Eleanor asks the 2 others, "Do you have any questions before we begin? Any objections or reservations?"
Nolene says, "No. I'm good."
Jean replies, "Naw."
Maya clears her throat and looks down at the piece of paper that was given to her.
She sheepishly smiles as her hands shake a bit.
Eleanor gives her Childe a cold stare, "Is something the matter, Maya?"
"N--No, just a...I can't believe it's been a week since my...Embrace. This is all a bit...surreal, right?"
Eleanor nods, "Perhaps."
"I can't even imagine what I'd be doing right now, had I not been Embraced by you, Eleanor. God, I don't even wanna think about it."
Eleanor says, "Anytime you are ready, my Childe."
"OK. Sure," Maya smiles at her Sire.
Maya breathes in and breathes out.
Nolene and Jean give her a reassuring nod.
Maya straightens her back and begins, "I, Maya Weekes, hereby swear my everlasting loyalty to House and Clan Tremere and all its members. I am of their Blood, and they are of mine."
A good minute or so later, and Maya ends, "I hereby swear this oath on this hallowed night. Woe to they who try to tempt me to break this oath, and woe to me if I succumb to such temptation!"
Eleanor immediately rises up and approaches Maya. The Elder slits her own wrist and lets a few drops of blood fall onto the paper.
Maya gasps as she sees the paper smoke and slowly break down into tiny particles. It soon dissolves and is completely gone.
Maya asks, "What was that?"
Eleanor doesn't respond.
Maya asks again, "Eleanor?"
Eleanor's eyes change color and she speaks, "Let it be so."
A long, piercing howl erupts from everywhere and fills the air.
The sound is so loud that Nolene and Jean are momentarily stunned.
Maya grimaces a bit, but the howling eventually subsides.
Eleanor's eyes go back to normal and she sternly nods, "Well done, Childe. I now hereby grant you the rank of Acolyte. May your service be of benefit to the Pyramid."
Eleanor looks at Maya and warmly smiles, "You have come thus far, my Childe. There is still much ahead of you. There is still so much for you to learn. Stay vigilant and always keep the Beast under your control."
Maya nods, "Of course, Eleanor." There is a slight look of disappointment on her face.
Eleanor asks, "Is something wrong, Childe?"
Maya shakes her head, "I just wish Lucile was here for this. She would've been...proud, I think. You know, that I...made it this far. 2 weeks ago, I didn't even know who this amazing woman was. I--"
Maya chokes up a bit, "I just want her here."
Nolene puts a hand on her shoulder, "Hey, we're here for you, girl. You're not alone."
Jean adds, "Aye, Lucile will probably be back even before you know it. She's smart, strong, and capable, love."
Eleanor says, "She will return, my Childe. She will return."
Maya rubs her eyes, "Thanks, you 3. This means a lot to me. Really, i--it does."
Eleanor puts her hands on Maya's shoulders, "I must leave now. In the meantime, continue your learning and training. Diligently perform any task given to you by the Prince and make every effort to uphold the Masquerade. Understood?"
Maya replies, "Yes, ma'am. I mean, Eleanor." She awkwardly laughs a bit.
Eleanor looks at Nolene and Jean, "You both have witnessed Maya taking the oath. Ensure that she does not deviate from it." Her tone is final and leaves no room for questions.
Jean salutes, "Aye."
Nolene smiles and waves, "Will do, Eleanor."
Eleanor nods and heads for the front door, "I shall see you at the auditorium later, then?"
Maya nods.
Eleanor reminds Maya, "Make sure you hunt before attending the meeting. It is improper to attend such gatherings when the Hunger distracts you."
"Of course."
Eleanor leaves as Maya hears the engines of a SUV roar to life.
After a few minutes, Nolene breaks the silence, "Daaaaaamn, girl! You in the big leagues now!"
Maya asks, "Was your oath-taking the same?"
"Uh, yeah, yeah."
"Wow. That's pretty cool."
Nolene shrugs, "Eh. It was a long time ago. Heh."
Jean gets up and adjusts their jacket, "Well, as much as I'd love to sit around for a chinwag, I got places to be and sleepin' arrangements to make; y'know how it is for us Wanderers."
Nolene nods her head, "Nice meeting you, Jean. You gonna be in town for a while, right?"
Jean nods, "Not for long, I'm 'fraid."
They point to Nolene's tattoos, "Oi, I love your ink, Nolene. Really great stuff, I love the way the roses swirl around your arm."
Nolene smiles at Jean, "Thanks, I uh...like the studs on your jacket, Jean."
Jean chuckles as they rub their jacket, "Aye, this oul thing? It's as old as sin, love. But it's a gift from a dear friend, so it's very special to me." Jean tucks their hands into their pockets.
Nolene nods, "Oh, that's cool."
Jean snaps their fingers, "Oh, right, Maya! Lucile wanted me to tell ya that she already paid the bills, so you're set for a bit." They chuckle and wink.
Maya smiles and says, "Oh, uh...wow, OK. Thank you, Jean. For everything."
"Aye, no worry about it, love."
Jean asks, "Anything you want me to tell her? Hmm?"
Maya's eyes get a bit moist, "Just tell her that I love her. And tell her to stay safe out there. OK?" Maya sniffles a bit. Her voice is a bit shaky.
"Aye, will do, love. Will do." Jean puts a hand on Maya's shoulder. Their tone is warm and gentle.
Nolene reassuringly adds, "Lucile will be back before you know it. Now, I gotta get going. I uh...got that court thing I have to get to." She awkwardly scratches her hand. "I'll talk to you later, Maya."
Maya looks at Nolene, "Oh, OK. Cool. Yeah, I hope things go well. We on for bowling this week or...?"
Nolene sighs, "I'd love to, but this stupid shit's taking a hell lot longer than expected."
Maya narrows her eyes, "What is it about, anyway?"
Nolene gets a bit uncomfortable, "I--I just don't feel like talking about it. I'm sorry, Maya, I really am. Nothin' personal."
Jean asks, "Oi, why can't you tell her, Nolene?" They cross their arms and look at Nolene.
Nolene quickly replies, "Uh, just...I'm already running late. Um...bye!"
Nolene hastily walks off. Jean looks at Maya and shrugs.
Maya waves her hand a bit and wonders to herself what's got Nolene all stressed out.
Jean sniffs, "Well, that was interesting. Anyways, anything else you want me to pass on to Lucile? Anything at all, Maya?"
Maya shakes her head, "Nah, not right now. But I appreciate the gesture, Jean. I really do. I just don't want you to neglect your duties and act as a messenger between me and her."
Jean nods and smiles, "It's fine, love. I kinda like doing it, actually. It's...cute." They put their hands in their pockets. The leather of their jacket makes a crinkly sound.
Jean exhales, "Anyways, I got deliveries to make. I'll see ya when I see ya! Peace." They flash Maya a peace sign and leave.
Maya waves a bit as Jean gets in their vehicle and drives away. Maya watches the car disappear and then sighs.
Maya stands outside for a few minutes, just thinking.
Well, at least, Lucile's OK, so that's a plus. Maya figures she should probably go hunting.
Besides, the Beast within is starting to get a bit antsy and it's better to satisfy its eternal urges sooner rather than later.
So, the Tremere Fledgling grabs her bike keys, locks the front door, and gets on her bike.
She drives down the road, the street lights passing by in a blur.
Maya can't help but wonder what's next for her, though.
Little did she know...
Soon enough, she finds what might be her meal for the night. A young woman in her 30s milling about near a deserted building.
Maya pulls into the parking lot and parks her bike. She gets off and casually walks up to the woman.
The woman is looking into a puddle of water, brushing her long, brown hair with her fingers.
Maya lowers her stance and looks around to make sure there are no other witnesses nearby. She quietly sniffs the air and picks up a few less than desirable scents.
Maya approaches the woman, who is emptily staring at her own reflection in the puddle of water.
Maya covers the woman's mouth with her hand and pulls her down. Maya's face is right next to her ear and she whispers, "Shhh. Hshhh!"
Maya's fangs emerge and she puts her lips on the woman's neck. She bites down. Hard.
The woman is caught off guard, but her screams are muffled.
Maya's eyes are glowing as the Beast gets it fill for tonight.
After mere seconds, Maya pulls away as the blood covers her lips. She quickly looks around to make sure she's not seen.
The woman's breathing is ragged. She's still alive. Good.
Maya tightens her grip on the woman's body and licks the wound shut. Very good.
The woman's eyes are filled with a mixture of fear and dreamy bliss.
Maya gently lets the woman fall to floor and checks to make sure that she's OK (or as OK as one can be after being bitten by a vampire).
Maya sighs in relief as she feels the fresh blood making its way through her entire body. She feels at ease, knowing that the Beast has been sated for now.
After a few minutes, Maya is back on her scooter. Since the meeting at the auditorium is much later in the night, she decides to drive around town for a while.
She slows down as she comes to the busier parts of town. Amidst the crowd, she spots a familiar face.
He sees her, too. He casually waves at her as he walks towards her.
Special Agent Björn Henrickson.
Great.
He looks peppier than usual, but still quite pale, even more so than Maya.
His eyes are empty and his smile is a bit off.
Maya speeds up, and drives off, hoping that he won't bother her.
But, alas, her luck runs thin as he strides towards her and places his hand on her scooter handle.
Maya nervously gulps as she notices a few police cars not far away.
Björn smiles at Maya, "Hey, you!"
"Uh, hi...Björn."
Björn smiles, "So, how's my favorite Tremere redhead doing?"
Maya hushes him, "Shhh, there's people nearby! Y'know, the Masq--"
Björn blows a raspberry, "Yeah, yeah, I know. Sheesh, Maya. You need to learn to loosen up once a while. Just cuz we're dead doesn't mean we can't have any fun."
Maya gives him a cold stare, "I know how to 'loosen up', thank you very much."
Björn stares at her, "You seem icier than usual. What's up?"
Maya blandly replies, "Nothing."
"Ah, come on. I'm your friend, Maya. What's wrong? And don't give me that BS about you having 'nothing' to say. Also, I'm FBI, so I can see right through most people's BS. Heh."
Maya sighs, "Maybe we should go someplace private?"
Björn laughs, "Sure! Hey, sweet ride by the way! Um...Vespa, right?"
"Mm-hmm."
Maya reluctantly asks, "You want a ride, Björn?"
Björn responds, "Nuh-uh. Nice try. I prefer something with 4 wheels. 2 wheelers just ain't my thing."
"Hmph. Suit yourself. What are you doing out here, anyway?"
Björn whispers, "Maintaining my cover. I'm actually pretty good at this FBI stuff. Even after all these years. So, have you given my offer any consideration?"
"What offer?"
"'What offer'. Pfft." He leans into her ear, "The one where I get rid of Special Agent Higgins for you. Heh."
Maya sharply looks at Björn, "Wha-- No! I--"
Björn teases her, "Spoilsport. I have soooo many chances to waste that guy. The security at their HQ is quite laughable. You'd think the SI would invest in better--"
Maya cuts him off, "Wait! You know where the SI is??"
Björn rolls his eyes, "Duh. Yeah, but I'm not telling you because that would be boring."
"Grrr. You are soooo annoying!"
Björn shrugs, "Maybe, but I'm still the best friend you've got."
"I doubt that."
"Heyyy, c'mon. I thought we were buddies. I could feel a real connection there, Maya. We have a lot in common."
Maya changes the subject, "So, did you find that thing or whatever it is that...belonged to your boss?"
"Nope. Still looking. Maybe you can use your crazy-glowy-eyes thing to help me find it. Oooooh," he imitates a ghost.
Maya shakes her head, "It's called Auspex. I don't suppose you Baali have access to that particular Discipline, hmm?"
"Nope. But my Sire could go all invisible and shit."
Maya parks her scooter nearby and walks with Björn to a nearby bench. She sits down with him and asks, "Obfuscate?"
"Is that what they call it? Yeah, maybe."
Maya curiously asks, "So, who's your Sire, then?"
Björn softly groans, "SEC guy named Markham Reed."
Maya furrows her brows, "There's vampires in the SEC???"
Björn scoffs, "I guess so. It's...complicated."
"What did you say his name was?"
"Markham Reed."
"I swear, I've seen that name in like, news reports and stuff."
"Yeah, he's kind of a big deal."
"Well, go on."
Björn shakes his head and sighs, "Remember when the SEC moved on Flimont City cause of all the insider trading, market manipulation, and all that shit?"
"Oh, right. I remember that. Wow, a decade ago, though?"
"Yeah, it's been a while. Damn. Well, Markham Reed was an investigator sent over from DC. Hooo, boy. A lotta crazy shit was uncovered and the city hasn't been the same since then."
"So, there's other Kindred in Flimont City? What are they like?"
Björn winces, "I try to stay the hell outta their way, Maya. They're not worth the hassle, believe me."
"Hmm."
"So, about that offer. You seriously can't make one single, little, teeny-weeny exception? I'll even let you choose the method of killing."
Maya ponders for a moment before asking, "Is Higgins that big of a threat?"
Björn replies, "Well, he's SI. That's a big enough threat, no doubt about it."
"And why do you even want to kill him in the first place?"
Björn sighs, "To be honest, I just don't like him."
"You met him?"
"Haha, no. I just read his file. He's a true believer, Maya. Just...ugh. The SI sure does attract the nuttiest of the nuttiest, hmm?"
Maya asks, "So, you're STILL an FBI agent?"
Björn replies, "Sorta. Just as long as no one goes poking too deep into my background, y'know?"
"I'm not gonna judge, Björn. I just don't understand how you can be FBI and still do...this."
"Well, like I said last time, this FBI thing is good for getting in and out of places, especially if you know what you're doing and where to look. It's an asset, Maya. Don't knock it."
"Hmm. Well, I'll consider it, OK?"
Björn folds his arms, "He really, REALLY wants to talk to you, Maya. I'm sure you're smart enough to know about what."
Maya asks, "How do YOU know what he wants to talk about, anyway?"
"I've seen the video of you and Annette arguing." He whistles, "Damn, remind me to never piss you off. Hey, by the way, is Annette...y'know?"
Maya grimaces and angrily replies, "I don't ever wanna hear that name again."
Björn smirks at her, "Hmm. I bet. Y'know, I saw her picking up trash while wearing one of those Hi-Vis vests. She looked so...sad."
Maya growls at him.
Björn laughs, "OK, OK. I'll drop the subject."
Maya sneers, "She's a bitch and I don't EVER want anything to do with her EVER again," she raises her voice a few octaves as she continues, "EVER!"
Björn chuckles and attempts to calm Maya down, "Whoa, hey, slow down there. It's been more than a week, y'know. Maybe things have--"
As he continues speaking, a pudgy teenage boy approaches the duo. He pulls out a notebook and shoves a pen into Maya's hand, "Can I have your autograph, miss??"
Maya blinks a few times, "Um...what for?"
The boy replies, "You're, like, super famous. I've probably watched that video of you and that brunette arguing 100 times now, it's awesome!"
Maya stares at the boy with a disgusted look on her face.
The boy notices the look and quickly takes a few steps back, "So, can I have your autograph??"
Maya folds her arms and looks away from him, "Get out of here. Just go. Leave me alone." She gives him his pen back.
The boy's face is filled with disappointment, "W--But, you're a celebrity! You could have a whole career and stuff out of this! Please, miss! PLEASE!"
Maya raises her voice, "I SAID LEAVE!" she points to the side with her finger.
The boy clutches his notebook and scampers away as fast as he can.
Björn stares at Maya and snickers.
He whispers, "Subtle. Real subtle." He gestures to the others who have caught wind of Maya's outburst. Some approach her, phones in hand.
Björn notices this, gets up, and wipes his pants, "Lemme handle this."
He approaches the small group, "Alright, people. I'm a federal agent. Kindly go home and wait for your autographs from some real stars."
They frown at him as some try to get around him.
He raises his voice and pulls out his badge, "FBI. You yokels know what that stands for? GO. She's part of an ongoing investigation." He walks off and hops back on the bench where Maya is sitting.
Maya weakly smiles, "Thanks. I think."
Björn shakes his head, "Heeey! No worries."
"Hmmm."
Maya stands up and says, "I gotta get going. Um...Björn?"
"Hm?"
Maya stares at Björn, "Did you present yourself to Prince Lucas yet, y'know, in accordance with the--"
The Baali carelessly waves his hand, "Nah, I haven't. I'm not planning on staying long, anyway."
"Hmph." Maya sighs, "I have other stuff to do."
"I'm sure you do."
Maya scratches her arm, "Um...thanks for helping me out there." She awkwardly smiles.
"We bloodsuckers gotta stick together, right?"
Maya doesn't say anything.
Björn gets up and gives her a side-hug, "I'll take that as a 'yes'. See ya around, Ms. Weekes!" he winks at her as he walks away.
Maya sighs and walks back to her scooter. She noticed someone left a...note wedged in the handles.
It reads: "FUCK YOU for ruining Bernice's campaign with your big mouth."
Maya groans and crumples up the paper as she tosses it away.
A little boy nearby points to the discarded paper and says, "Lit-ter-ing! She lit-ter-ing!"
Maya shakes her head as she gets on her scooter and drives off. She decides to slowly drive to the auditorium despite the meeting not being for another few hours or so.
She takes the scenic route and drives slow. She stops to fill up some gas at a gas station.
She notices a slender man rummaging through his heavy rucksack. He's on one knee and has his back to her.
As she gets closer to him, she notices a few more of his belongings strewn on the floor.
She asks, "Uh...hi. You need any help?"
He looks at her, "Hmm? Oh, thank you, miss."
Maya gets down and helps this man pick up his belongings.
Maya introduces herself, "I'm Maya."
"Torvald. Maya, hmm? Lovely name."
Maya smiles, "Thanks. Torvald?? You're uh...not from around here?" She hands him a little blue book as they continue picking up his things.
"No. I'm from the Netherlands. We're just passing through this lovely little town."
Maya asks, "Really? We don't get many visitors here."
He gives Maya a small smile and says nothing. He regards Maya for a few seconds and says, "Your hair. It's beautiful."
Maya presses her lips into a smile as she puts a few odd trinkets back in his rucksack.
Torvald says, "You remind me of someone I used to know."
"Oh, really?"
"Yes, she has red hair just like you. Her name is Sanne. It means 'Lily'. She took care of me when I was very small."
Maya smiles at him. Torvald looks into her eyes and maintains a neutral expression.
Maya is starting to feel uncomfortable as he stares into her eyes.
She clears her throat and stands up, "I--It was nice meeting you, Torvald. But I really gotta go. Enjo--Enjoy your stay at Plaintry and, um...have a safe trip." She briskly walks away.
Torvald warmly smiles at her and waves goodbye.
He watches as she gets on her scooter. She looks at him with worry on her face as she speeds off.
Torvald stands up and cleans up the rest of his things. He carefully puts them in his rucksack.
Gunnar emerges from a nearby bathroom. He zips his pants and walks towards Torvald.
Anja emerges from the nearby convenience store, holding an energy bar of some sort.
Emi is behind Anja. She's holding a small bag of Cheetos and munching on them.
Torvald notices the bag of Cheetos, "Emi, don't you think you should be consuming something...healthier?"
Gunnar laughs, "She's 19, Torvald! Let her enjoy her youth!"
Anja shakes her head and says nothing.
Emi, with Cheeto dust all over her mouth, asks, "Who was that pretty woman with red hair?"
Torvald looks away and narrows one eye, "The same question I have, cub."
Anja dryly says, "We saw you speaking with her. Do you know her?"
Torvald shakes his head, "No. Yet, I can't shake off that feeling of...familiarity. She reminded me of someone I knew long ago."
He lowers his head, "However, I could feel the taint of the Wyrm all over her."
He rubs his chin, "Anyway, that is not as important. We must focus on our task for tonight. Do you have everything you need?"
Gunnar nods.
Emi nods.
Anja says, "We are ready to follow your lead."
She finishes the last bite of her energy bar and asks, "Will the others be meeting us at the warehouse?"
Torvald nods, "Yes. We've done enough...looking around. Now is the time to strike. Remember, no survivors. Everyone in there is a Wyrm-tainted leech."
Gunnar grunts and places his hands on his hips.
Emi solemnly nods her head.
Anja breathes in and out a few times.
Torvald puts a hand on Anja's shoulder, "I know you still have your doubts. But this is necessary."
Anja huffs, "I am aware of that, Torvald."
Torvald reassures Anja, "It is a sacred task, Anja. To have the opportunity to cleanse this town of all these Wyrm-tainted blood leeches in one night? It is almost too good to be true! But we are the ones who were chosen for such a sacred task."
Anja says, "Hmph. It probably IS too good to be true."
Emi shoves another handful of Cheetos into her mouth.
Torvald simply shakes his head.
Gunnar cracks his knuckles, "It has been a while since I have...fought." He chuckles.
Torvald puts a hand on Gunnar's shoulder, "Yes. It has been too long, my friend. We must never forget our Rage."
Torvald looks up at the moon and gestures towards it, "Behold, Luna! Behold the one who grants us our Gifts!"
Gunnar looks up and smiles. Emi looks up at the moon as well.
Anja looks up at the moon and puts her hand on her chest as she whispers something to herself.
The Garou are ready and they are coming.
Back to Maya...
She parks her scooter near the auditorium. She notices that the front door is still locked.
She decides to mill around the place for a bit.
She pulls out her phone and scrolls through Pinterest. She likes doing that.
After a while, she just stares at her phone screen, feeling a bit disappointed that there's no new messages or notifications.
(Apart from all the unnecessary ones, of course.)
She applied for a position that closely matches her qualifications but she's still waiting for a response.
She looks around for a bit and notices someone walking towards the front door of the auditorium.
She realizes that it's Sheriff Eunice. She's wearing her police uniform.
The Malkavian Sheriff pulls out a bunch of keys from her pocket and unlocks the door.
Maya calls out, "Um...hi."
Sheriff Eunice turns to Maya, "Hmph. You're early. Don't you have anything else to do?"
Maya nervously scratches her head, "Um, no. Not really."
The Sheriff pushes the creaky door open, "Well, you're a bit of a scatterbrain, aren't you?"
Maya retorts, "You could say the same thing about the Malkavians..."
Sheriff Eunice narrows her eyes, "What did you say?" She stares daggers into Maya's eyes.
Maya's voice is shaky, "Uh--Uh, I mean, we all have our...differences, I guess."
Sheriff Eunice clicks her tongue and sharply replies, "Differences, pfft." She walks in without saying another word.
Maya shakes her head and walks in, too.
She looks around the place as Eunice goes to get some plastic chairs to lay out for tonight's meeting.
Sheriff Eunice puts the chairs in the correct places.
She notices Maya, "Well? Make yourself useful."
Maya asks, "Sure. You need anything?"
The Sheriff rubs her temples, "It's been a long night and my stupid step-daughter is pestering me about college."
She exhales and adds, "And now, I'm talking about my problems with a Tremere..." She mutters something to herself.
Sheriff Eunice points to the far side of the large room, "There's a mop and a bucket back there. Fill it up and get cleaning." She walks off, leaving Maya to her task.
Maya sighs and shakes her head as she begrudgingly makes her way to the mop and bucket. She goes outside and fills it up with water. The nearby faucet is rusted, old, and creaky, but it works. Just barely.
She heaves as she picks up the filled bucket and brings it back in. She then dunks the mop in the water and starts mopping. There's a lot of dried dirt and grimy stuff on the floor.
"Yugghh..."
Sheriff Eunice just stands there, arms folded, watching Maya as she does the mopping. She says nothing. She simply stands there. Just standing there, watching Maya. With her dead eyes. Just...staring at Maya.
Maya conceals her frown and goes back to mopping. It's quite a large area she has to cover, so she takes a few breathers in between. She wipes her forehead.
Thanks to her preternatural vampiric strength, she isn't feeling as exhausted or strained as she used to feel back when she was a normal human being. (But still, she's feeling it a bit.)
She glances at Sheriff Eunice and sighs. She continues mopping as her phone vibrates and rings loudly.
Maya puts the mop down and pulls her phone out of her pocket. It's a call. From a potential recruiter, perhaps?
She answers it.
"Yes, this is Maya Weekes."
"Uh-huh. OK."
She licks her lips and looks around as the person on the other line talks and talks and talks. Sheriff Eunice is looking at her. Maya shrugs her shoulders and politely smiles.
The Sheriff remains as still and expressionless as a statue.
"I see. Unfortunately, I am not willing to relocate at the moment, sir. Thank you for the opportunity, however." She ends the call.
Maya breathes a sigh of frustration and puts the mop in the bucket.
She puts her phone back in her pocket.
Sheriff Eunice calls out, "What did I say about not using that thing. Turn it off! You know the SI is tracking everyone's phones these nights."
Maya pulls her phone out and quickly turns it off.
"Good. Keep working. The faster you do that, the better."
Maya does a passive-aggressive smile as she rolls her eyes.
Maya mutters under her breath, "Damn, another busted opportunity. Great." She puts both hands on the handle of the mop and starts moving it across the floor again.
And again.
And again.
And again.
Something tugs at the back of her mind. Something that tells her that this mopping isn't good enough. It tells her that she missed a spot here, there, and somewhere else. It drives her up the wall, this feeling. This urge.
This Compulsion for Perfectionism, but Maya knows that it won't stay suppressed forever. She gathers her wits and decides to have a go at it for a second time.
So, she begins mopping again, for a second time.
She grits her teeth and grunts as if she's in a boxing match.
She gives this rather mundane task all she's got, dancing across the floor, mop in hand.
Sheriff Eunice comments, "You look like you're enjoying this." She leans on the wall, her arms crossed. She has a bit of an amused expression on her sullen face.
Maya ignores the Sheriff and continues.
The Sheriff doesn't say anything else as she watches the Fledgling put a hell lot of effort into this otherwise trivial task. Maya is just that good. Just that good. At...mopping.
Yeah.
Soon enough, the floor's as clean as can be and Maya breathes a sigh of relief and puts her mop in the bucket.
She stretches her back, "That should do it, right?" she mutters as she rubs her lower back.
The Sheriff shrugs, "Meh." She looks at the floor and goes outside.
Maya goes to empty the bucket of dirty water and takes the mop back to where she found it.
She sits on one of the nearby chairs and leans back a bit, waiting for the others to show up.
Prince Lucas arrives, with Chaska following in tow.
The Prince is wearing a long black coat, faded slacks, and a patterned neck gaiter.
He warmly smiles at Maya and Sheriff Eunice, "Ah, you 2 are already here. Good, good." He tugs at his gaiter a bit.
Chaska wears some sort of cowboy fringe shirt, with its tassels dancing as he moves. He's also wearing some dark jeans, a belt with a big, gold, round belt buckle, and boots that look like they belong on a movie set.
He greets Maya, "Usurper. How are you doing tonight?"
Maya smiles at him, "Hey, Chaska. I'm doing good. How 'bout you?"
Chaska shrugs, "The nights are long and the nights are hard."
Prince Lucas remarks, "Hmm. Indeed." He looks at the drying floor, "I see someone put in some extra effort to keep things clean." He chuckles a bit.
Maya presses her lips into a thin line and blushes a bit.
The Prince looks at the Sheriff, "Your doing, Eunice?"
The Sheriff simply nods over to Maya.
Prince Lucas simply says, "Ah. Good work, Maya. It's good to see that even a Tremere is not below such a menial task. But then again, we must all be prepared to do whatever is necessary for the good of Kindred Society."
He sits down on one of the plastic chairs and pulls out a toothpick from his pocket. He starts chewing on it.
Chaska takes the seat right next to him, "Yup."
Maya looks around and asks, "So, any idea when the others will be coming?"
Prince Lucas responds, "You know how it is with the others, Maya. They'll take their sweet, sweet time and expect everyone to wait on them, no matter the occasion or how urgent it is."
He groans and continues, "Anyway, any news on the Garou? Eunice, anything?"
Sheriff Eunice shakes her head.
The Prince looks at Maya, "How about you? Did you come across anything interesting or unusual these past few nights?" He adjusts himself on the chair a bit.
Maya thinks for a second before shaking her head.
"Mm. Too bad."
Of course, Maya didn't know that she had a chance encounter with the Garou earlier this night! To her, Torvald was just an out of towner she encountered at a gas station.
40 or so minutes later, and the door to the auditorium swings open. In walk none other than the power couple- Arman and Ginny, arm in arm.
Arman's hair is slicked back, and he wears a nice casual suit and a dress shirt with the top buttons open.
Ginny wears a dull-gray, knee length, bodycon dress with a low neckline. She wears high heels that clack as she walks in.
She walks over and takes the seat away from Maya. Arman sits next to Ginny.
Arman greets the Prince, "My liege. Lovely night, isn't it?"
Prince Lucas dryly responds, "Hm. Arman."
He greets Ginny, "Ginny. How are things going?"
Ginny smiles, "Fine and dandy, your highness. Fine and dandy."
Prince Lucas glances at her for a few silent seconds before turning his attention to Chaska, "So, who else should we be expecting tonight?"
Chaska replies, "The Elder Tremere and that Lasombra Ancilla."
Maya interjects, "What about Dylan, where's he at? Is he gonna be coming or--?"
"You can never tell with him," Arman snidely comments.
Maya ignores him and continues, "Is Dylan OK?" She looks concerned as she hasn't heard from him since they last spoke.
Chaska replies, "I spoke to him. He's picking up extra shifts at the Amazon warehouse." He adjusts his shirt a bit and scratches his cheek.
Prince Lucas says, "I would still prefer he were here, but I understand that work often comes first."
The Elder Tremere, Eleanor, walks in.
She's wearing a dark dress and a shawl. Her long, gray hair is done up into a bun. Her pearl earrings and necklace add to her aura of wisdom and authority.
She curtly nods at Prince Lucas, "Greetings." She proceeds to sit next to her Childe.
Maya smiles at Eleanor, "Hi."
"Childe. I trust you are learning something of value in these meetings. Normally, they are for Clan representatives only."
Ginny clicks her tongue, "I still don't see why she has to be here."
Eleanor glares at Ginny, "It was the Prince's decision to include the Fledgling in our meetings, and I expect that you respect it."
Prince Lucas clears his throat, "Alright, ladies, that's enough. It's good that Maya's here. We'll need as much input from all present. Especially in these...troubled times. That said, we're just waiting on one more."
So, a few awkwardly silent minutes pass until a slim, slightly short woman in her mid-40s walks in. Her skin is warm and her eyes are dark and piercing. She wears a sleek maroon dress. She's carrying a small bag over her shoulder.
Prince Lucas immediately gets up and greets her, "Ah, Ms. Steiner. I'm so glad you could finally make it."
The Prince notices a man standing awkwardly close to Ms. Steiner. He's in his 40s with disheveled brown hair and dark eyes. He's wearing a plain long-sleeved shirt and black jeans.
Ms. Steiner introduces him, "This is Selby. My Ghoul." She speaks with a slight Eastern European accent.
She continues, "And, please, call me Agnieszka. I am quite tired of hearing my last name all the time. Selby and I have been busy with the divorce proceedings for many nights." She gives Prince Lucas a tired smile.
Selby is awkwardly standing near his Domitor, head lowered, hands clasped together. He doesn't say anything. He's just...there.
Prince Lucas beckons Agnieszka to take a seat. The Lasombra takes the empty seat next to Maya. Selby stands in the corner and says nothing.
Agnieszka eyes Maya from head to toe, "Ah, you must be the Fledgling of The Broken Clan." She smirks.
Maya awkwardly smiles, "That's me, yeah." She looks at Agnieszka, then her Ghoul, Selby.
Maya extends her hand, "I'm Maya, by the way."
Agnieszka shakes her hand, "Agnieszka. Agnieszka...Steiner. Formerly known as Agnieszka Cordoza." She lets out a superficial smile.
"Um...nice to meet you, Agnieszka." Maya says.
Agnieszka turns her attention to Eleanor, "I believe we have not had the pleasure, miss..."
Eleanor sternly replies, "Eleanor. Maya's Sire."
Agnieszka extends her hand, but Eleanor refuses to shake it. Agnieszka retracts her hand and narrows her eyes. She lowers her head for a bit.
Agnieszka greets Ginny, "Virginia. I trust all is well with you, dear?"
Ginny replies, "Yeah, it's great."
The Lasombra Ancilla turns her attention to Arman, "Ventrue. How fares your Clan?" Her tone is very monotone and her words are flat.
Arman responds, "Things are doing fine, Ms. Agnieszka."
Agnieszka slowly nods her head. She then turns to Chaska, "Raven."
Chaska nods back at her.
Agnieszka notices Sheriff Eunice standing in the corner, arms folded, glaring at her. She looks back at the others, a bit confused.
"There is a policewoman present..."
Prince Lucas interjects, "She is Sheriff Eunice of Clan Malkavian."
Agnieszka perches an eyebrow and amusingly remarks, "A Joker? As Sheriff. How...amusing. Or unusual, perhaps."
The Sheriff maintains her stance and says nothing.
Prince Lucas looks around, "So, what is the...agenda for tonight's meeting?" He tugs at his gaiter.
Agnieszka replies, "I believe it is prudent that we discuss the recent activity in town. The Garou pose an even greater threat to our Unlives than the forces of the Second Inquisition. We must make plans to deal with them."
Maya interjects, "Uh...sure, but where do we even start looking for them?"
Eleanor clears her throat.
Maya lowers her head, "Oh, sorry. I shouldn't have--"
Prince Lucas calmly says, "It's alright, Maya. All voices are valid here." He looks around, "Agnieszka, what do you have in mind?"
The Lasombra Ancilla crosses her legs and straightens her back, "Perhaps the Tremere would be able to perform some sort of ritual to...draw the Garou out and make themselves known."
Chaska asks, "But what if the ritual fails? Blood magic is as unpredictable as unpredictable gets."
Eleanor silently concurs.
Agnieszka replies, "Then we must think of alternative plans." She turns to Arman, "Ventrue, perhaps you have some ideas."
Arman folds his arms, "I say we ought to focus all our attention on the SI instead."
Prince Lucas narrows his eyes, "You cannot be serious, Arman."
Arman shrugs, "Why not? They are a greater threat than a bunch of angry...dogs."
Ginny and Chaska chuckle.
Maya raises her eyebrows and nudges Eleanor, "Say something!"
Eleanor shrugs, "Indeed. But Arman has a point. We cannot afford to ignore the SI any longer. If we are to survive, we must take action against them. No matter how much of a hassle it is."
Prince Lucas asks, "And the Garou?"
The Elder Usurper responds, "Sheriff Eunice and Maya will look into it. When the time is right, I will perhaps, as Agnieszka suggested, attempt a ritual that would draw the Garou out."
The Prince nods, "Very well." He looks around, "Does anyone else have anything to add?"
Ginny says, "Just tell us the word and we'll all be there to rip some fuckers to shreds." She cracks her knuckles.
Arman dryly remarks, "Hear, hear."
Eleanor nods and says, "If need be, I shall summon others from the House Of Hermes to assist. We should not take any chances."
Chaska adds, "And if they attack again? What then?"
The Tremere Elder simply looks at Prince Lucas.
He clears his throat and sighs, "I...hope it doesn't come to that. I really do. We've already lost so many, and for what?"
He sighs once more, "Even the SI has been a trouble to deal with, and I cannot seem to find a way to deal with them."
The Prince turns his attention to Arman, "Have your sources in the intelligence community found anything new?"
Arman shakes his head, "Nothing of note, I'm afraid. Moreover, they are not as reliable as they once were."
Arman quickly glances towards Ginny then to Agnieszka, "Recent events have caused some internal strife in the SI, and not just that..."
He clears his throat and continues, "But there are rumors of a faction within the SI that wants to take a more benevolent approach towards Kindred."
Maya scoffs, "Benevolent?! They're a bunch of fascist assholes!"
Chaska nods in agreement.
Arman shakes his head, "I wouldn't necessarily use such a loaded term, my dear. For what it's worth, I have absolutely no love for the SI or any of its affiliates. Still, they are not the monolithic organization that you think they are."
The Ventrue chuckles to himself, "It is likely that their members are simply not fully aware of their own goals. Perhaps they are swayed by outside influences or are simply misguided."
Eleanor chimes in, "Be that as it may, a plan of action is needed. And it is needed now." She stares sharply at Prince Lucas and expects a response from him.
Prince Lucas is silent. He is deep in thought. He is thinking. He is pondering. He is searching for a way out, a way forward. A way through.
He's kinda...out of his depth here.
Hence why he enlisted the help of someone like Ms. Agnieszka Steiner, a woman whose Unlife is measured not in mere decades but in a century or so.
Agnieszka speaks up, "I do not quite know how you have arranged things here, Prince Lucas. All I know is that action must be taken. Inaction is worse than a stake through the heart."
She continues, "The Ventrue are well-positioned in this region. They have access to considerable resources--"
Arman interjects, "As do the Lasombra."
Agnieszka smiles, "Hmm, yes. I can certainly lend a hand in that regard, should the need arise."
Prince Lucas strokes his chin and looks around.
He adjusts his coat collar and says, "This Operation Memphis Green thing. Any progress on finding out more about it?"
Shaking heads all around the room.
The Prince sighs and curses under his breath, "Damnit." He takes a deep breath, "Perhaps it is time to seek assistance from others?"
Eleanor asks, "What did you have in mind, Prince Lucas?"
Prince Lucas asks, "Did you read the news about what happened to the CEO of Vespire Inc?"
Eleanor gingerly replies, "I'm afraid not. I was...busy with something else." Quite a vague answer.
Prince Lucas is silent for a while, "He was found dead in his Beverly Hills Home."
Maya nods, "Oh, yeah, yeah. I read something about that! Crazy, huh?"
Maya continues, "Speaking of which, I sent a couple of leaked Vespire documents to Arman. Did you get 'em, Arman?"
Prince Lucas gives Arman an icy stare, "Why wasn't I informed of this sooner?"
Arman nervously laughs, "Oh, those? I did receive them, yes."
He nervously laughs again as he places his hand on Ginny's knee, "I haven't had the time to properly go through them on my own. I did send them over to a good friend of mine who knows more about this than I do."
Arman gives Maya a look of contempt.
Maya glances back at him and shrugs. She absentmindedly twirls her hair around for a bit.
The Prince shakes his head, "Well, we'll just have to wait and see what we can do with that information. How about the Froco building? Is there anything we can salvage from there?"
The Sheriff shakes her head, "Nope, they cleared out after the redhead went snooping around."
Maya raises her voice, "HEY! How was I supposed to know that the place was full of SI?"
The Sheriff ignores her and continues, "They probably reestablished operations elsewhere."
Maya huffs and leans back into her chair.
Arman mockingly says, "You could have not gone walking in to strange places..."
Maya is about to angrily scream, but Eleanor cuts in, "She cannot be blamed for scaring the SI away, Arman. She was still a mortal at the time."
Ginny groans, "Tch."
Chaska raises his hand, "Perhaps the Fledgling could use her Auspex Discipline to find them? A win-win, right?" He warmly smiles at Maya, who nervously smiles back.
The Elder Tremere slowly nods her head, "The Fledgling is still learning the basics of her powers, but what you are suggesting might actually work."
She turns to Maya, "It is up to you, Childe. What do you think?"
Maya ponders for a second and then stammers, "I--I guess?? As long as I'm not risking myself or someone else, I'm game. Um...anything for the good of Kindred Society, right?"
Maya nervously chuckles, "I mean, I did take an oath to uphold the values and goals of the Camarilla and maintain the Masquerade. So, yeah, I'm totally up for this."
"Hmph," Prince Lucas turns his attention to Eleanor, "Well? You also have experience with Auspex, yes? What do you think?"
Eleanor folds her hands, "I believe it is worth a try, at the very least."
Maya awkwardly adds, "Um...let us work as one and grow hale and strong!"
Prince Lucas asks, "Hmmm?"
Maya winces in embarrassment, "It was from the Tremere Code."
Eleanor dryly adds, "It is the oath that must be undertaken by every Tremere Fledgling in order to join our formal structures. She took hers a few nights ago."
Wait, what?
Maya raises her eyebrows so high, they almost reach her hairline. She wants to open her mouth and say something, but the words just aren't coming.
Prince Lucas seems impressed, "Ah, how interesting. I always suspected you Tremere would have something like that."
He continues, "Alright. We have a decent plan of action. Well done, Maya. This is the beginning of something new, I can feel it. Can you feel it, too?"
Maya semi-enthusiastically replies, "Uh...yeah." She looks at her Sire with concern.
Prince Lucas looks at Maya, and his voice is soft, "Yes. It is time for the Fledgling to join our ranks and make greater contributions to the Camarilla's overall agenda. Whatever that may be."
Agnieszka concurs with a silent nod.
Ginny and Arman nod along.
Chaska says, "So, the Usurper will use her Auspex Discipline in an attempt to locate the new HQ of the SI. What then? Hmm? We round up our best and brightest and raid the place?"
Ginny snickers, "Sounds like a plan. We're ready to bust some doors down and rip off some limbs. Just say the word."
The Prince grits his teeth and turns to Agnieszka, "Ms. Steiner? A penny for your thoughts?"
Agnieszka insists, "Please, Prince Lucas, call me Agnieszka. I am quite certain that a full-scale assault is the best course of action."
She pauses for a few moments, "Once we have determined their location and numbers."
She looks around. She looks at everyone in the room. She makes eye contact with Maya and does not blink or look away. Not at all. Not once. She keeps looking into her eyes, trying to read the Fledgling.
Maya turns her head to the side a bit.
Arman clears his throat and raises his hand a bit.
Prince Lucas groans, "This is not school, Arman. If you have something to say, then say it. Hmph."
Arman suggests, "If Maya over here is going to be utilizing her Auspex Discipline in an attempt to locate the SI's HQ, why not have her and perhaps Eleanor use the same Discipline to find the Garou?"
Maya gulps, "That's...quite a lot of work, Arman. I--I mean, like, no disrespect or anything, but, I don't think I'm up to it." She lets out an embarrassed chuckle.
Eleanor adds, "Hmm. Yes. For a Fledgling, that is quite the big ask. Furthermore, she is still in the process of learning the fundamentals of Unlife."
Eleanor looks at her Childe, "Sheriff Eunice can utilize her people within the police force should she so please. The Garou are known for leaving a bloody trail in their wake."
Eunice grunts and mutters something unintelligible to herself.
Prince Lucas asks, "Will this be a problem, Sheriff?" He studies her from head to toe for a few moments.
The Sheriff blandly responds, "Not at all, Prince." She has her arms folded, and her lips are in a thin line.
Agnieszka chimes in, "Indeed. There is no sense in letting the Fledgling expend all her Vitae. If what Arman suggested is the best course of action, then I, for one, agree."
The Lasombra Ancilla gently moves some of her hair to the side, "However, she will not be the only one who will be utilizing Auspex. There are many other Usurpers who are capable. Isn't that the case, Eleanor?"
Eleanor shakes her head, "They are busy with something of equal importance at the moment. I have already spoken with the Prince about this matter." She looks at the Prince with an impassive expression on her face.
Prince Lucas nods, "Yes. The other Tremere are...exempt until they have fulfilled their duties to their House." He looks at Agnieszka and waits for her reaction.
Agnieszka simply nods, "Of course. It was merely a suggestion. It is understandable that the Tremere have...more important matters that they are preoccupied with. No matter."
A very passive-aggressive response.
Eleanor cocks her eyebrow, "What are you implying, Turncoat?"
Agnieszka holds her hands up slightly, in a placating gesture of sorts, "Nothing, Usurper. I am simply saying that loyalty to the Ivory Tower comes above all else, even loyalty to one's own Clan."
Eleanor snarls, "But what would a former Sabbat sycophant like yourself know about loyalty?"
Agnieszka smirks, "Eleanor, come now. It is true, I was once loyal to the Sabbat. BUT, that is because I did not know any better. Now that I do, I serve the Camarilla."
Maya asks, "Why did you leave the Sabbat?"
Agnieszka softly chuckles, "Ah, a curious Fledgling, aren't you? There is still so much for you to learn about our strange new world, hmm?" She's amused at Maya's lack of understanding. Not really her fault; she is still a Fledgling after all.
Agnieszka leans forward, "Tell me, Maya. How are you finding Unlife so far? Have you come across anything...or anyone strange lately?" She studies her face, trying to read her reaction.
Maya feels unnerved. She shuffles a bit in her seat and avoids looking right into Agnieszka's cold, dead eyes.
Maya stammers, "It's been quite a uh...crazy rollercoaster so far, y'know. Just...taking things one step at a time." She tries her best to be nonchalant and polite.
Agnieszka leans back in her seat, "Hm. Of course, it is indeed wise to take things slowly. There is so much that you have yet to understand about Kindred Society, yet so much has been asked of you already."
Arman chimes in, "I believe she'll be able to handle it. Isn't that right, Maya?" He drags out the pronunciation of her name a bit, as if taunting her.
Ginny smiles as she leans back in her chair and places her hand on Arman's knee.
Maya swallows, "I'm sure I'll manage. I have a great teacher. Eleanor here has taught me so much already." She turns to her Sire and gives her a polite, closed mouth smile.
Eleanor says nothing. She does, however, nod and glance at Maya with what one can assume is...approval.
Maya continues, "And my girlfriend, Lucile. She's also been helping me through it."
Maya sighs as she looks at Prince Lucas, "I miss her. I just met her. It's...it's--" she sounds like she's going to burst into tears.
Ginny snickers.
Chaska reassures Maya, "Don't worry, Maya. She'll be back even before you know it." He gives Maya a warm and sympathetic smile.
Yet a part of him knows that courier duty for the Camarilla can drag on for years. Decades, even.
Maya looks at the Prince, "Uh--um...Prince Lucas? Can we start moving on the plan already? I wanna do it before I chicken out or something..." She fiddles with her fingers.
Prince Lucas replies, "Well, Maya, it's really on you now. You're really going to have to focus and concentrate to be able to utilize your Auspex Discipline in such a way. It is going to take some practice. And a whole lot of time."
He looks around the room, "Time which we simply do not have."
Eleanor nods, "Yes, such an undertaking requires a more...advanced grasp of Auspex than what my Childe is currently capable of. Yet, as the Prince has said, we cannot afford to dawdle."
Eleanor looks straight into Maya's eyes, "She will find the SI." She says this with conviction. "It is only a matter of how long she takes."
Chaska chimes in, "And if, for some reason, she can't?"
Eleanor bluntly says, "Failure is not an option or even a possibility for us Tremere."
Maya gulps as her Sire just put her on the spot, but she remains silent.
The pressure is slowly mounting.
True, she's not a total beginner with the Auspex Discipline, but she isn't some walking see-through-walls machine with thermal and sonar vision, either!
This is a pretty big task that's been dropped on her lap out of nowhere, and it's something that will be very difficult for a week-old Fledgling to accomplish.
Especially when so much is on the line! But still...what can she do? She can't really just refuse...can she?
Or can she?
No, she took an oath earlier this evening. And the Tremere Code does stipulate that any violation thereof will lead to VERY harsh repercussions. Such is the way of the Pyramid, of which Maya is just a small, insignificant speck at the bottom.
Maya speaks up, "I-I'll do it! I mean...yeah. I'll give it a go. I'm ready!" She sounds pretty confident, but there is still that doubt scratching away at the back of her mind.
Eleanor nods. Chaska is also nodding along with a very subtle smile. He seems to believe in Maya's abilities.
Prince Lucas nods. Agnieszka seems to approve.
Arman and Ginny nod along, too.
The Prince raises his chin a bit, "So you will utilize your Discipline to locate the new SI HQ?"
Eleanor cuts in, "She will use her Auspex to find BOTH the SI HQ and the Garou. At the very least, it will serve to reveal their movements."
Maya silently nods.
Arman slowly claps his hands, "Marvelous! Simply marvelous! I do love to see Fledglings trying their best! How hard they try...how far they will go." There is a sinister undertone to his statement.
Ginny adds, "And if you do, get out of our way and let us handle the rest. You ain't seen nothing until you see us get down and dirty." She chuckles and smiles widely.
Arman smiles. It's an unnatural, unsettling smile, and Ginny has the same unsettling smile as she tightly holds her new lover's hand.
Agnieszka is quiet for a while. She crosses her legs, folds her arms, and regards Maya for a few moments. Her eyes also linger on Eleanor for a bit.
She finally says, "The Fledgling appears capable, I am certain of that much. The question now is how much time will she be allotted for this task?" She turns to the Prince.
The Prince strokes his chin for a bit, "Hm...that is indeed an excellent point. Eleanor, you have any ideas?"
Eleanor states, "Give her a week. If she is unable to accomplish the task within the week, I shall send for others." She stares at her Childe.
Maya fiddles with her fingers and quietly gulps.
Eleanor continues, "Fortunately, I trust that my Childe is more than capable of completing such a simple task within that generous amount of time. Is this not correct, Maya?"
Maya responds, "Yeah. Of course, o--of course!"
Chaska warmly says, "Hey. Don't let the pressure get to you, Maya." He gives her a reassuring smile.
Arman interjects, "Please do keep us updated on your progress. The Ventrue are more than willing to help you along the way. All you have to do is ask."
Ginny simply nods, "Yeah, I dunno what kinda help we can offer you. Maybe we can bring you a few warm bodies. Heh."
Maya grimaces a bit.
Prince Lucas gets up and adjusts his pants. He bends down to pull up his socks, which were riding down. He also tugs at his gaiter.
He takes a deep breath, "It's getting late. Is there anything else?"
He looks at Maya, "Do not fail us, Maya." His tone is stern and serious.
Maya nods, "I'll do my best to find these guys as soon as I can. I--I won't let you down, I promise." Her voice has a hint of uncertainty.
The Prince sighs, "The clock is ticking, Maya. Cast aside all doubt and uncertainty and have confidence in yourself." His stare is cold, piercing.
Maya nervously swallows, "Right. Sorry..." she sheepishly smiles.
He then asks to speak with Agnieszka alone, and she follows him. They move a bit further away from the others. He's talking with her in very hushed tones, arms folded, eyes glaring.
Maya can't hear what he and Agnieszka are talking about.
Eleanor nudges Maya, "It is improper to poke your nose into the affairs of others."
Arman and Ginny get up. They both wave goodbye.
Arman subtly nods to Ginny. She goes over to Sheriff Eunice and asks, "Ya free this week, Sheriff?"
The Sheriff nods, "Maybe. Why?"
Ginny pats the Sheriff's shoulder, "Ehh, we should probably meet up sometime and...talk. Y'know, 'bout stuff."
She doesn't wait for the Sheriff's response as she leaves with her Ventrue boyfriend.
Sheriff Eunice simply nods and dryly says, "Hm, sure. Whatever. Should be fun."
Eleanor gracefully stands up and heads for the exit.
Maya tightly grips her Sire's hands. Eleanor turns around and regards her with a blank expression.
Maya quietly asks, "Will I be OK?"
"I will help you in any way I can, Maya. Do not hesitate to reach out to me, whenever you feel the need. I will answer. I am there for you, Childe."
Maya exhales, "I just don't wanna let any of you down, y'know."
Eleanor replies, "In all fairness, Childe, the tasks given to you are quite a challenge for a Fledgling like yourself."
Maya lowers her head, "E--Either way, I'll try my best." She sounds more like she's trying to convince herself than anyone else.
Eleanor nods, "Focus on increasing your Auspex Levels. Only then will you be capable of fulfilling such a task. So far, you have done well for your first foray into our world. Your progress has been encouraging thus far."
Eleanor firmly states, "I have confidence that you will, one night, rise to greatness."
Maya silently smiles and waves goodbye to her Sire.
Just then, Agnieszka ends her conversation with the Prince and approaches Maya.
Maya gasps a bit as she turns around.
Agnieszka warmly asks, "I know the next few nights will be quite difficult for you. Are you going to be alright, Maya?"
Maya weakly smiles, "Yeah, I'll manage. Just trying to take everything in stride, y'know."
"That is good to hear. I know we have not known each other very long, but I would like to invite you to my Haven tomorrow night."
Maya awkwardly says, "Um, I--I don't know, Agnieszka."
Agnieszka reassuringly says, "It is alright, Childe. I know our 2 Clans have not always gotten along, but you are a Fledgling with limited knowledge of our respective histories."
"I dunno, I shouldn--"
"Come now, Childe. I will not harm you in any way. I merely wish to get to know you as a person. Not Maya of Clan Tremere, but Maya the person. This would also give you a chance to learn more about me."
Agnieszka gives Maya a gentle smile.
Maya sighs and rubs her face, "I...I guess so, I might be a little delayed cause I have a few errands to run. I'll probably come by after that."
Agnieszka responds, "Very well, Childe. I look forward to it." She summons her Ghoul, Selby.
Selby briskly walks up to his Domitor and stands beside her.
Agnieszka says, "Selby, please take Maya's phone number and text her my address."
Selby nods and takes Maya's phone number from her.
He pulls out an old Motorola flip phone from his back pocket and quickly types the numbers in.
Agnieszka says, "Excellent. I shall see you tomorrow night, Fledgling."
Maya smiles, "Yep." She's not entirely sure what Agnieszka's angle is. Is she even playing an angle?
She doesn't really know, and she doesn't even know why she's even considering doing this.
So far, Maya's impression of the Lasombra has mainly come from Ginny's words. She knows that they're not exactly a nice bunch.
Is Agnieszka like the rest?
Only one way for Maya to properly find out.
Agnieszka leaves, with Selby following behind her.
Chaska walks up to Maya, "Hey, you OK?" He smiles and tilts his head a bit.
Maya is silent for a bit before nodding, "I guess I've...got my work cut out for me, huh?"
Chaska responds, "Yep. I'm sure you'll be able to do this."
He asks Maya to follow him outside. He then opens up the trunk of his car.
He presents Maya with what looks to be a small disk, decorated with colorful beads and feathers. The disk hangs from a long, black twine.
Maya carefully takes the item, "Oh, it's so pretty! Um...what is it, exactly?"
Chaska smiles, "A dreamcatcher, Maya. It's used to protect against bad dreams and evil spirits."
He continues, "This one used to belong to Frank. We were just clearing out his things."
Maya holds the dreamcatcher in her hands and inspects it from different angles, "Wow. I--I don't know what to say, Chaska. I--"
"Frank would've wanted you to have it, Maya."
Maya lowers her head, "Thank you, Chaska. I appreciate this." She takes a deep breath and gently places the dreamcatcher into a plastic bag that Chaska gives her.
Chaska closes the trunk and walks over to his car. He opens the door, "I have to go and see Dylan now."
Maya asks, "Is Dylan doing OK? I haven't seen him for a few nights."
Chaska shrugs, "He's doing about as well as Thin-Bloods usually do."
Maya awkwardly chuckles, "Right. Well, I gotta get going myself. And tell Dylan I said hi."
Chaska nods, "You betcha. See you, Maya, and may the spirits of the Blood watch over you."
He closes the door and drives off.
Maya sighs and looks around. She can see Prince Lucas and Sheriff Eunice in a hushed conversation.
Prince Lucas beckons Maya to approach him.
She approaches him, "So, uh...what now?"
He looks at Maya, "You have your tasks. I trust that you will be able to fulfill at least one of them."
He looks around, "As for myself, I have some more things to take care of before the sun rises."
Just then, Jean O'Malley arrives. They hop out of their car. It's a scratched Pontiac Firebird (3rd generation).
Jean greets Prince Lucas, "Aye! Prince Lucas! Good to see you again!" They walk over and stand next to Maya.
Prince Lucas nods, "Mx. O'Malley. I'd like you to meet the newest addition to our ranks, Maya of Clan Tremere."
Jean chuckles, "Haha. We already met earlier this evening."
Prince Lucas raises an eyebrow, "Is that so? Interesting. Anyway, I take it that you have something for me?"
Jean smiles and pulls out a flash drive from their satchel, "Aye. I could ask you the same thing, Prince."
Prince Lucas smiles and pulls out a wad of cash from his coat pocket, "$5,000. As agreed."
Jean spends a few seconds counting the money. They smile, "Much appreciated, Prince."
Maya's jaw hangs slightly open, "Whoa, 5 grand. Maybe I should get into this courier game."
Sheriff Eunice scoffs, "It's not a game, dummy. Most of what these mules make goes towards keeping their jalopies running. Not to mention, finding places to sleep, and looking for food. Hmph."
Jean looks at Sheriff Eunice and smirks, "Aye, the copper is not entirely wrong. Being a courier on nights like these ain't all grand, y'know."
The Sheriff grunts.
Prince Lucas looks at Jean, "So, what's on this flash drive? If it's not too much trouble to ask."
Jean shrugs, "Dunno. We're paid to move shite from Domain to Domain, not ask questions."
Prince Lucas nods, "Of course, of course."
He pockets the flash drive and asks Jean, "Have you heard anything from...Cheveyo?" There is a look of anxiety on his face as he asks about his Sire.
Jean replies, "Naw. Not even a wee whisper. I'm sorry."
They casually shrug, "That's just how it is, isn't it?"
Sheriff Eunice glares at Jean, "What's your story anyway?"
Jean snorts, "I'm no telling a copper that. Haha! Anyway, I'll be leaving you 3 now."
Jean playfully pats Maya on the back, "See you around, love."
Maya smiles and waves goodbye, "Later."
Jean gets in their car and starts it up. The car coughs and sputters, then goes silent.
They slam their fist on the steering wheel, "Fuck me, I just got this junker fixed!"
Jean tries to start the car again, "Awright. G'wan, g'wan, g'wan g'wan."
The "G'wan," goes on for quite some time as the car struggles to start up. Eventually, the car makes a loud banging sound as the engine starts.
Jean leans out and excitedly says, "See! It's not knackered. Yet. Hehe!" They drive off.
Sheriff Eunice shakes her head, "I'm gonna lock up and head home. Goodnight, Prince Lucas. Maya. Don't do anything stupid, ya hear?" She walks off without another word.
Prince Lucas nods, "Yes, good night, Sheriff." He turns to Maya. The look on his face is stern and cold.
He tells Maya, "You have quite a lot of work ahead of you, Maya." He strokes his chin. "We expect big things from you. Don't let us down."
He softly sighs, "However, it does seem like quite a lot to ask of a Fledgling." He's deep in thought. "I guess we have no other choice." He strokes his chin some more.
Maya says, "I'll do my absolute best, Prince Lucas."
Prince Lucas replies, "Hmm, is a week too generous? Is there some way we can speed this along?" He looks at Maya, waiting for her answer.
Maya nervously swallows, "Uh--um, I guess I'll try to wrap it up ASAP." She shrugs. She has no idea. She's out of her depth here, and she knows it.
"Sorry, I--I can't really give you a timeframe on these things, Prince Lucas."
"It's OK, Maya. Just find a quiet place and focus on using your Discipline."
A few moments later, a 1966 Pontiac GTO arrives and Prince Lucas gets in. Keith rolls down the window and greets Maya. She waves at him.
Prince Lucas speaks to Keith for a few seconds and then they drive off.
Maya sighs and presses her lips into a line as she paces around the area, thinking. There is some time left before she has to retire for the day.
Sheriff Eunice chains the front door and locks the building's main entrance. She notices Maya wandering around and approaches her, "What's the matter?"
Maya sighs, "Just thinking about how to make this whole Auspex thing work. It's not like I can just whip out a pair of binoculars and find these guys, y'know." She sighs again.
"That's your problem, not mine."
Maya asks, "What Disciplines do you specialize in?"
Eunice responds, "A Ventrue taught me some stuff decades ago." She looks at Maya for a bit then shrugs, "Why are you asking?" She squints a bit.
Maya takes a step back, "Ah, j--just curious. Um, what kinda stuff did they teach you?" She nervously smiles. She doesn't want to annoy the Sheriff any further.
The Sheriff bluntly states, "Fortitude."
"Cool, so you could theoretically resist sunlight?"
"I don't intend to test that. Ever. Now if you'll excuse me, I need to go home." The Sheriff walks away, heading to her car.
Maya yells, "Wait! Can you...gimme any tips? Advice? Any ideas on where to start looking for the SI?" She pleads. She's desperate at this point. She needs some guidance. Or something.
Anything.
Sheriff Eunice apathetically shrugs and walks away without saying anything. She gets in her car and drives off.
Maya sighs, "Shit." She leans against a wall and rests her head against it. "Ughhh..."
She pulls out her phone and turns it back on. She notices the text message from Selby. It's Agnieszka's address. Maya decides to drop by tomorrow evening.
After she goes to see what Edgar wants. Why would he call her back to the Nimbus building?
Could it be...?
No, she was technically fired, right? There's no reason for her to go back there. Not unless she's desperate enough to try and beg for her job back.
Still, her current job search isn't going too well. Perhaps she can convince him to let her have her job back?
After a few minutes of idle thought, she gets on her Vespa and heads back to her Haven.
It's been a helluva night. Having 2 complex tasks dropped on her lap all of a sudden is...well, it's a lot. It's a lot to process. To handle. To deal with.
Maya just wishes Lucile was here so she can hug her and tell her that everything is going to be OK.
The Fledgling sighs. She's all alone now. She has to figure this out herself.
And she better figure it out soon. Even though she was given a week, she feels that results are expected sooner than that.
3 nights, at most. But she knows it's going to take longer than that. A lot longer. She has no idea where to even start.
She plops down on her couch and decides to read through that tome on Auspex that Eleanor gave her.
She reads through it, trying her best to understand it. She keeps reading. She keeps trying. She doesn't give up.
She reads line by line. She studies it. She pores over it. She focuses on it. She puts every fiber of her undead being into reading it. She WANTS to understand it.
She NEEDS to understand the Discipline that she chose to specialize in.
Still, one tome isn't enough to get the full picture. She needs to read more. She needs more info. She needs to something more...practical. She needs to do...something.
The clock has already started ticking.
Meanwhile, Chaska is driving to Dylan's place of work. He pulls up near the Amazon warehouse.
He parks his car and gets out. He walks inside and looks around. There are quite a few people still working.
Chaska spots Dylan conversing with another man. He approaches the Thin-Blood, "Hey, we need to talk. You got a moment?"
Dylan quietly says, "In a minute, in a minute."
Dylan goes back to conversing with this other man. Chaska leans against a nearby wall and waits.
Dylan asks this man, "So, you're serious about this?"
The other man says, "Yeah, it's 'bout time, don't you think?"
Dylan replies, "I guess so."
The other man continues, "Look, I know you're worried about potential repercussions, but..."
Dylan nods, "Yeah, yeah. I mean, the last thing I want is to end gettin' fired, y'know. It's not exactly a cakewalk, DeShawn."
DeShawn laughs, "You're probably right, Dylan. Still, it's something we've been planning for quite some time. Better now than never, right?"
Dylan sighs, "Yeah. Better now than never. L--Let's do it. Let's just do it." He nods and takes a deep breath. He looks at Chaska.
DeShawn says, "Alright, man, I'll let the others know. We're gon show 'em who's really in charge 'round here." He gives Dylan a tight handshake and walks off.
Dylan approaches Chaska, "What's up?" He cautiously looks around and keeps his voice low.
Dylan nervously asks, "How'd it go tonight? Is he...is Prince Lucas mad at me?" He seems very concerned. He looks down, unable to make eye contact with the Ravnos.
Chaska warmly says, "Oh, no, not at all. After all, you still have to make a living somehow. Besides, you're a Thin-Blood. We all understand. No one's judging you, Dylan."
He pauses for a few moments, "Anyway, Prince Lucas just wanted to make sure that you and the other Duskborn are doing OK."
"Well, tell him that I appreciate the concern," Dylan groans as he scratches his shoulder.
Chaska asks, "Is something wrong, Dylan?"
"It's nothin', nothin'," he quickly says, "Just...the usual shit, y'know." He rubs his neck.
Chaska asks, "What do you make in a place like this, anyway? Is the money decent?"
Dylan snorts, "It's fuckin' terrible, Chaska. I work my ass off and I barely make enough. The hours are crazy, and they keep changing." He sighs and shakes his head.
"And I'm not the only one." He does a sweeping gesture across the warehouse, "All these folks here are having a rough time, man."
He looks at his feet and quietly adds, "Even worse for the regulars, I'm sure."
Chaska is silent for a bit, "So, a lot of these workers are Thin-Bloods, too?" He looks around, observing the workers carrying various boxes and containers.
Dylan nods, "Many. Not all, but we're pretty close."
Chaska nods, "I'm sorry, Dylan. I've worked in my fair share of shitty places, but not like this. And not for years, either. This is just awful."
Dylan sneers, "Tell me about it. Listen, I can't be seen slacking off here." He grabs a clipboard and a broken pen. He starts taking notes. "See you 'round, Chaska." He walks off.
Chaska asks, "If you don't mind me asking, what were you and that man talking about?"
Dylan exhales and looks out the window, "Hmm, about forming a uh...union. It's all a bit...complicated. We'll see what happens." He takes a deep breath and sighs.
Chaska remarks, "A bold move, Dylan. I've been involved in a few attempts to unionize, but the results weren't always...fruitful."
Dylan retorts, "Well, we can't just flop around and do nothing, y'know. This is a shithole. It's not gonna get any better if WE don't do anything."
The warehouse is located in a large, sprawling, brick building. It is an old structure that is not entirely in good shape. Some of the windows are boarded up, and there are metal bars covering a few doors.
There is a sign that reads: "Days Since Last Accident- 2." The "2" has been scrawled on with a red marker.
The building is surrounded by a chain-link fence that is topped with barbed wire. Many large, black trucks with flatbeds are parked in front of the warehouse.
Torvald gets up from his meditative position and brushes the dust off his pants.
His eyes survey the warehouse, where a few workers are loading up boxes and crates onto the trucks. They all seem exhausted and have a defeated look in their eyes.
He takes a deep breath as Gunnar and Anja flank him.
Gunnar looks around, "Hrrrgh! I can smell the taint of the Wyrm from all the way here." He grimaces and shakes his head.
Anja nods.
Gus, Sheila, Erika, Gavin, and Daniel join the trio.
Erika walks up and asks, "Where's Emi?"
Torvald replies, "She's gone to disable the electricals. Once that's been dealt with, we move in."
Gavin grumbles, "Let's get this over with. The sooner we're done, the sooner we can go home." He's a little nervous. He has no idea what lies ahead of him.
Gus comforts Gavin, "Listen, I know it's your first time doing something...like this. Just know that I'm right here with you." He gives Gavin a firm pat on the back.
Gavin smiles and nods. He tries to appear brave, but there is still some anxiety in his heart.
Daniel fidgets and paces around. Sheila looks at him and asks, "Daniel, dear? Are you feeling well?" She gently rubs his back.
Daniel shrugs as his lips shake a bit, "I dunno, mom. I just...I mean, it's not like I've never killed anyone before." He looks away from the others.
Sheila reassures her adopted son, "It's not a pleasurable task, but it is a necessary one. These are bloodsucking parasites. We must fight them at every turn if we are to defeat them. To defeat the Wyrm."
"I--I know that. But--"
"There is no shame in what we do, Daniel."
Daniel rubs the back of his sweaty neck, "I just don't wanna hurt any innocent people. I mean, we're just supposed to kill everyone, right?"
He walks over to Torvald and asks, "Y--You're sure they're all vamps in there, Mr. Torvald?"
Torvald silently nods.
Gus adds, "We did our...research, and it's definitely vampires in there. Well, it's actually a lot more than a few."
Anja chimes in, "We're just following the plan, Daniel. Torvald is the leader of our Pack and what he says goes."
Daniel quietly says, "Yeah, I know, I know. I'm not a child. I--I'm just..."
"It's OK, Daniel. You can stay behind if you want," Sheila suggests.
Daniel shakes his head, "No, no, mom. I wanna help."
Anja kicks some dust in front of her, "What is taking that girl so long?!"
Gunnar places his big hand on Anja's shoulder, "Patience. The cub knows what she is doing."
He turns to Torvald and says, "Glass Walkers know their technology, do they not?"
Torvald responds, "Indeed. We have nothing to fear."
Torvald then looks up at the moon and whispers to himself, "Luna, give us strength."
He closes his eyes and bows his head, and Gus can hear him mutter a few words in Dutch.
Chaska heads to his car. Seeing that there isn't much to do here, he prepares to leave the warehouse.
As he places his hand on the car's handle, the hairs on his arm stand on end. He looks around, trying to see what caused that.
The lights inside the warehouse go off, casting the area in complete darkness.
A sudden, intense wind blows, causing a few discarded plastic bags and trash to fly across the parking lot.
What follows is a long, nightmarish, howl that pierces the night sky and shakes the very foundations of the warehouse.
Chaska turns around and looks at the warehouse.
He gasps, "Oh my god."
He readies his claws as he rushes back into the warehouse.
The warehouse, cast into darkness, is an eerie sight to behold.
Lights from phones erratically flash around the warehouse.
"What the fuck is happening? What's goin' on?"
"I dunno, but I'm gonna get outta here!"
"I can't see anything!"
Another worker comments, "Somebody better get the backup generators on!"
A few workers bump into each other as they move around, trying to find their way out.
Chaska calls out, "Dylan! DYLAN! Can you hear me? Where are you?!"
One worker yells, "Over here!"
Chaska moves over to the sound of that voice.
He bumps into the worker and looks her in the eyes, "Are you alright? Are you hurt?"
"Y--Yeah. Yeah, I'm OK. What's going on, man?"
Chaska asks her, "Where's Dylan."
She shines her phone flashlight around, "Uh...he was right over there a few seconds ago."
"I need you to get everyone out of here. Now!"
"What? I can't just leave my shift. It's not like they pay us overtime or anything."
Chaska grabs her by the shoulders and shakes her, "LISTEN! Get out of here, NOW!"
Dylan comes back, looking a bit disheveled and bruised, "Chaska? What the hell's going on?"
Chaska grabs Dylan by the shoulder, "We need to get everyone out of here. Now!"
Dylan bats Chaska's hand away, "C'mon, it's just another power outage. Shit like this happens all the--"
A vicious howl suddenly erupts from behind them. The sound of a few growls are heard, too.
Everyone gasps and murmurs.
Chaska doesn't give up, "We need to get outta here!"
Dylan asks, "Whoa. That's...not normal."
Chaska quickly takes Dylan by the arm and goes to a corner, away from perked up ears.
The Ravnos says, "It's probably...them."
Dylan looks confused, "'Them' who?!"
"The Garou!"
"YAAAAAAAAH!" A scream is heard, followed by the savage sounds of bones breaking and flesh being ripped apart.
Dylan stammers, "What the fuck?! What the fuck's goin' on?! WHAT THE FUCK?!" He's breathing heavily.
"What do we do?!"
Chaska snarls as his fangs extend, "We need to get out of here NOW!"
Chaska and Dylan attempt to dash out of the warehouse. Dylan tries the door, but it seems that it has been blocked by something. He pulls on the door, but it doesn't budge.
Chaska is about to grab the door and try to force it open, but he hears a giant beast snarling at him and Dylan.
Its glowing eyes study the 2 vampires.
Outside the warehouse, the sound of screaming and growling can be heard.
Blood splatters all over the windows and walls as the Garou mercilessly cut down and rip apart anyone unfortunate enough to cross their path.
Chaska swallows and gets in front of Dylan.
Dylan looks over Chaska's shoulder and readies his own claws as he blinks rapidly.
He's about to say something, but he hears the sound of heavy footsteps coming closer.
The Garou, in its Crinos (true battle) form, growls and tilts its head as it slowly walks towards the 2 vampires.
Chaska whispers, "I call upon the spirits of the Blood."
With that simple whisper, an ethereal bear-like creature materializes out of nowhere and rushes straight at the Garou.
It roars, and its roar is like a powerful gust of wind.
The Garou yelps a bit as the spirit bear strikes. The creature is quite large and it's made of swirling colors. It roars again, and this time it sends the Garou flying.
The Garou lands with a loud thud, but it's immediately back on its feet and roaring as it charges towards the spirit bear.
Dylan runs over to help his co-workers, who are being slaughtered by the Garou.
Some kneel on the floor, in pools of blood, screaming and scratching at their faces. Others are lying on the floor, clutching their scratched bodies and crying.
Others are violently dragged away as limbs are torn off their bodies.
A man runs towards a woman who's backed into a corner. As he approaches her, he falls to the ground, screaming as the Garou claws at his back and rips off his head with one mighty yank.
A woman, who appears to be a Thin-Blood, readies her claws and rushes towards the Garou. She slices at the creature's hide, but her strikes don't seem to do much damage.
They barely tickle these beasts.
The Garou responds by punching her through the stomach and ripping her quasi-vampire organs apart. She shrieks as the beast rips her apart. Her blood sprays all over the Garou, but it doesn't even flinch.
The Garou tosses her aside like a ragdoll. She starts to rapidly decompose, eventually leaving nothing but a pile of ash.
The Garou looks up at the ceiling and howls, sending a shockwave through the building that causes dust to fall from the rafters and the pipes. It's a deafening sound.
It's a sound that is both horrifying and invigorating. It's a primal call to action, to strike. To kill. To hunt. And to destroy.
Another Garou pounces in front of Dylan and slashes at his face with its gigantic paws.
Dylan quickly moves his head out of the way, dodging the attack. He retaliates by slashing at the beast's throat. He manages to leave a nasty gash. The beast roars and backs away. It wipes the blood off its throat.
The Garou howls as its wounds start to close, mending itself. It snarls and rushes towards Dylan. Dylan quickly dodges the attack by rolling to the side.
He gets back up, readies his claws, and tries to attack the beast. He slices at its neck and legs, but his attacks seem to have no effect. The beast is like a walking tank. It doesn't seem to be slowing down.
The other lone Garou continues its assault on the spirit bear. It's able to inflict a few hits, but is otherwise having no effect. It is able to get some strikes on the bear, though.
Chaska comes to the aid of his spirit bear and pounces on the Garou from a shelf. He claws at its back and face. The Garou flails and thrashes. It throws Chaska off and spins around. It roars at Chaska.
Chaska quickly regains his composure and bares his fangs for the Garou to see. The bear-like creature stands behind him and roars at the Garou, as well.
A few Thin-Bloods come to Chaska's aid. They pounce on this lone Garou from all directions and slash at its skin and muscles. The beast roars, spins around, and swats them away with ease. It stomps on a couple of them.
The ones that aren't stomped on are immediately torn apart by a few other Garou nearby. It's as if it was their sole mission in life to destroy these Thin-Bloods.
Chaska and his spirit bear continue their assault. The spirit bear rushes the Garou like a bull seeing red, knocking it to the ground and repeatedly clawing its face. The Garou manages to get back up, but is clearly in pain. Blood streams out of its large eyes.
The Garou shakes its head and gives a backhand (or backpaw) slap, sending the spirit bear flying into the wall. The spirit bear flickers and is at the point of dissipating.
Chaska lunges at the Garou, but the beast simply kicks him in the chest and sends him flying into a shelf. The shelf then sends the other shelves crashing down as well, like a domino effect.
Chaska's spirit bear whimpers as he groans and sits up. He's clearly injured. He shakes his head and hisses as he stands up.
However, his wounds have already started to mend themselves.
Chaska looks to the side and watches in horror as a group of workers are savagely torn apart by the Garou. They're all dead before they even had a chance to realize what was going on.
Their blood splatter the walls and floor.
Chaska is frozen in place, unable to do anything but watch as more people are torn apart and their corpses are left to bleed out.
He sees Dylan rolling, dodging, and swatting away the claws of his Garou foe. Dylan gets a few good hits on the beast, but not nearly enough. The beast doesn't seem to be slowing down.
Chaska feels that his wound is nearly mended. He stares daggers at the lone Garou who seems to be targeting him. It's almost as if it knows.
As if it knows...what he is.
A look of calm comes across Chaska's face. Amongst all the savage growling and roaring, Chaska is completely calm.
He stands up and brushes off the dirt.
He breathes in and out as he channels his Vitae into his Animalism Discipline.
He shuts his eyes as he feels a shiver run down his spine. He exhales and feels a slight pull.
He opens his eyes and the spirit bear stands right beside him. Chaska's wounds are fully mended.
His eyes change color and his claws grow a few inches longer.
He nods at the spirit bear and the bear simply roars into the air.
Chaska howls, too.
The lone Garou pokes its head from the corner. It discards a torn limb and takes a step towards Chaska and the spirit bear.
The spirit bear roars and pounces at the beast.
The Garou swiftly dodges the attack and swipes at the spirit bear with its sharp claws. The spirit bear howls in pain as its ethereal flesh is torn apart. It is sent flying and it lands on its back, on top of some fallen shelves and rotting corpses.
The spirit bear whimpers and closes its eyes as it slowly disintegrates.
The spirit bear finally disappears, leaving Chaska alone.
Chaska is filled with a primal rage as he bares his fangs and hisses. He rushes the lone Garou with such speed and ferocity that he is a blur. He leaps at the beast and pounces on its back, stabbing and clawing at it.
The beast howls as it tries to throw Chaska off, but the vampire is too strong. Chaska's claws pierce through the beast's skin, muscle, and bone. The beast falls to its knees, howling in pain.
The beast's howls are heeded to by no one, as they are too busy slaughtering and tearing apart everyone else in the warehouse.
Chaska doesn't let up. He digs his claws into the beast's hide, tearing it open.
He then slashes the Garou's eyes and face. The beast is somewhat blind and totally bloody, but it's still able to swing its arm and land a punch. It hits Chaska with a thud but doesn't send him flying.
The beast stands up and roars in Chaska's face. It spits in his eyes and slashes him.
Chaska deftly weaves and ducks under the beast's claws.
The beast's face is dripping with blood and its eyes are so damaged that it's unable to see Chaska anymore.
It wildly swings its arms and roars, trying to hit Chaska, but Chaska is far too quick.
Chaska continues his assault on the beast. His eyes are filled with fury as he strikes and strikes and strikes at the beast again and again. He has become a wild animal. A ferocious monster.
He has freed the Beast within.
He's relentless in his attacks and refuses to stop. He's not a mere vampire anymore. He's something else. Something much, much different.
The Garou yelps and howls, in an attempt to summon its friends. Chaska doesn't care.
He's so lost in his rage and the Vitae pumping through his veins that he doesn't even register that the Garou is no longer in its Crinos form.
No...it has somehow (whether out of instinct or pure desperation) changed to its Lupus (true "wolf") form.
Chaska roars as he slashes the Garou's throat, and then its chest. Its intestines fall out.
The wolf just yelps as the Frenzied Chaska gets on top of it and rips it open.
It howls. It growls. It whimpers.
The wolf gasps and goes limp.
He continues pounding and clawing away at this dead wolf.
He doesn't stop. Organs and body parts come flying out.
His Frenzy continues as he claws and cuts and slashes.
A loud, ear-piercing shriek fills the warehouse.
A Garou rushes at Chaska and slaps him away.
Chaska gets back up and growls at the beast. He lunges at the creature, but another Garou tackles him from the side, pinning him down.
Chaska snarls and slashes at the other Garou. The beast howls and recoils. It tries to bite him, but Chaska's claws prevent that.
He uses this time to jump up and slam his fist against the other Garou's face. It falls down, but immediately gets back up.
With one swift move, Chaska lands a kick on the creature's hairy chest, causing it to tumble over. It falls back and lies flat on the ground, unable to get up.
Another Garou, which appears to be in its Hispo (massive nightmare wolf) form, rushes headfirst into the Frenzying vampire, tackling him to the ground.
It tries to bite his head off, but he slashes its face with his sharp claws. It backs away, whining. It growls and barks.
Chaska takes this opportunity to go towards Dylan who is desperately trying to defend himself against another Garou.
He throws down pallets of cardboard boxes and breaks them with his bare hands. He also kicks over the shelves that are in his path. Desperation is all over his face.
He gasps as he looks around and sees his co-workers, dismembered, bloodied, and torn to shreds.
They're all gone.
Nothing but lifeless (or rotting) bodies lying in pools of blood, ash, and guts. The ground is covered in gore and body parts. There is barely anything that isn't soaked in blood.
It's like a war zone. A bloodbath. A massacre. An orchestrated display of savage violence against innocent working people just trying to make ends meet in this shitty warehouse.
It's a sight to see, if not for the fact that it is an absolutely atrocious display of violence against innocent folk. People who did no wrong worthy of grotesque punishment.
People who, up until tonight, thought that this was just gonna be another long, grueling shift at Jeffrey Preston Bezos's shithole, where they have to do all the hard work, but get no raise in pay or betterment of their working conditions.
Dylan desperately scrambles about, frantically looking for any survivors. Screams and savage growls echo throughout the warehouse.
He finally sees DeShawn stuck under a fallen shelf.
DeShawn wheezes and flails, trying to free himself.
Dylan frantically grabs DeShawn and tries to pry the shelf off the injured man, but the shelf is far too heavy.
Despite being a vampire, he's not strong enough to remove it.
DeShawn gasps, "I...I can't feel my legs."
Dylan looks around, trying to think of a way to lift this shelf off him.
"NOOOOO!" a group of workers scream in terror as they huddle together.
They see Chaska rushing towards them like a manic bloodthirsty monster, roaring and clawing at the air.
Dylan yells, "CHASKA! NO!" He lunges at the Ravnos, tackling him to the ground.
Chaska makes a few guttural sounds as he attempts to claw at the Thin-Blood who is pinning him down.
Dylan gets on top of Chaska and tries to shake this Frenzied Wanderer out of his manic state, "CHASKA! CHASKA!"
"AAAAARGH!" DeShawn yells from below, "SOMEBODY HELP!" He begins to lose consciousness.
Dylan looks to the side while holding Chaska down. His eyes widen and he freezes in place.
A Garou in its Crinos form stands atop the collapsed shelf, looking down at them.
It opens its mouth, revealing its gigantic maw of razor-sharp teeth. It screams as it lands to the ground with a loud thud.
It looks at DeShawn with murderous intent. The poor guy just screams in terror as he sees the Garou's large foot come down on his head.
A gross squelching sound is heard as DeShawn's head is crushed. His blood sprays everywhere, and his brains leak out from between the Garou's toes.
DeShawn's body stops moving.
It's over for him.
Dylan shakes Chaska, "CHASKA! Snap outta it! Snap outta it! PLEASE!"
Against his better judgment, he says, "Fuck it," and shoves the Frenzied vampire towards DeShawn's murderer.
The Crinos Garou is surprised as it sees a drooling vampire tackle it. It loses its balance and falls to the floor. It growls.
It howls and tries to claw at Chaska, but it is unable to make any significant hits. Chaska is too fast and too vicious for it.
The group of workers stick together as they scamper away and cower in fear. Some of them try to crawl under fallen shelves and hide.
It's clear that they are not fighters. They are not warriors. They are not killers.
They're not monsters, they're just regular folk.
Some among them might be Thin-Bloods, but that's besides the point.
Chaska gets back up and he goes straight for the Garou's throat.
He cuts through its hide, flesh, and bones. He repeatedly stabs and slashes at it, causing blood to splash all over the area.
The Garou picks him up and throws him across the room, but Chaska is back up on his feet in a split second. He goes for the Garou's head again, but it swats him away.
The wounded creature lands on top of some pallets of cardboard boxes. It looks around and wipes the blood of its face.
It roars, causing a few more workers to hide, whimpering.
It notices a Thin-Blood hiding in the corner. It growls.
The Thin-Blood grabs a bat and smacks the Garou on the head with it.
Mere tickles.
The Garou responds by pouncing at the worker. Its jaws go straight for their neck and it rips them apart.
The workers scream and scramble away as the other beasts hack them to bits with their claws and teeth.
Chaska slowly gets back up. He's terribly injured and panting heavily.
He limps towards the Garou, but it's too late. The beasts have finished with their supposedly "sacred" task.
Chaska looks around the horror show, jaw hanging open and his face covered in blood and bits of flesh.
He sees some workers, alive and kicking, run for the door.
He tries to warn them, but he's too late. They're all gone, instantaneously pulled away and ripped apart by the pack of monsters.
He sees Dylan try to make his way to an exit. Chaska limps towards the same exit, but the beasts are already in front of the entrance.
They growl and snarl at the last few workers; some are Thin-Bloods while the others are regular mortals.
The vampires and mortals have what one might call "weapons" to fight back.
There is a mortal with a pocket knife, a young woman with a tire iron, and a Thin-Blood man with a crowbar.
Another vampire has a metal pole in his hand.
The Garou hisses and snarls as it moves around. It tilts its head and roars. It moves towards the group, who are huddled together, trying to think of something.
They all lunge at it from different directions, trying to at least distract it while they make their escape.
The Garou quickly snatches one of the mortals and takes a large bite out of him. Its claws then slit the throat of the vampire wielding the pole, while its fangs and claws pierce through the belly of the other mortal and Thin-Blood with a crowbar.
It throws them aside, sending them flying across the warehouse.
The Thin-Blood struggles on the floor as his wounds slowly mend. The Garou sees to it that he doesn't heal fast enough- it bites him and rips his intestines out.
The Thin-Blood cries out and his eyes go wide. He feels every bit of his ashy internal organs being pulled out of his body.
The Garou licks his lips and savors the Thin-Blood's agony. It throws the man's organs on the ground and steps on them.
A mortal groans as their leg profusely bleeds. They try to crawl away, towards an exit.
The Garou quickly pounces on them and tears their head clean off.
With all their might, Chaska and Dylan push and push at a door that seems to be locked.
They can see a faint light shining from the other side.
"Shit! Goddamnit!" Dylan repeatedly kicks and pushes at the door, but it won't budge.
Chaska, still recovering from his Frenzy, hasn't said a word. He just stares into the void emptily. He's utterly exhausted.
He doesn't want to think about what he just did. He doesn't want to remember what happened.
He just wants to get the fuck out of here.
So, with one final, desperate push, he throws all his might into the door.
It creaks open, barely wide enough for both of them to escape.
They quickly get through and close the door shut as they see half a dozen Garou running towards them.
The 2 men gasp in horror as the monsters gnash their teeth and claw at the door.
In seconds, the door comes flying off its hinges.
Chaska grabs Dylan by the arm and goes to his car. He quickly opens the doors and pushes Dylan in.
He gets in after Dylan and tries to start the car.
"C'mon, you piece of shit, C'MON!"
Dylan gulps as he sees the door fly off its hinges and the beasts piling through it. He watches, horrified as they snarl and roar. They all have murder in their eyes.
They want nothing but death.
Or in the case of vampires, Final Death.
"Uh...Ch--Chaska?"
Chaska turns the key and the engine turns over and starts up. "Don't worry, don't worry! We're getting outta here, Dylan."
He puts the car in reverse and looks at the mirror. He sees the Garou right outside. They growl and snarl, baring their fangs.
Chaska slams on the gas and goes full speed reverse. The tires squeal as he backs away. He turns on the headlights and they reflect off the Garou's eyes.
The car smashes through some chain-link fences, cutting them in half.
Chaska proceeds to makes a sharp turn and moves the gear to drive. He floors the gas and they go as fast as they can. The car swerves all over the road.
He frantically looks into the rearview mirror, but for whatever reason, the Garou don't follow them. They stay behind the warehouse and howl into the night.
Chaska looks to his right and notices that Dylan is shaking all over. There is an unmistakable look of trauma all over the Thin-Blood's face. He appears to be in shock.
"Dylan? Dylan, are you alright? Can you hear me?" He snaps his fingers and tries to get the Thin-Blood's attention.
Dylan buries his face in his hands and cries. He sobs.
He sniffs, "Th--They were...They were my friends! I--I was supposed to watch over them!" He keeps crying. He just keeps crying and he doesn't stop.
Chaska shakes his head and responds, "You shouldn't blame yourself, Dylan. This...wasn't your fault." He looks back at the road.
"I--I represent the Thin-Bloods in this town. What do I do now that...that..." He pauses.
His voice goes quiet, "I...don't--"
Dylan whimpers, "I don't know." He grips the dashboard and snarls.
Chaska is a bit taken aback by Dylan's snarling. He says, "Dylan! Stay with me! We need to get away from here."
"Away from here?!" Dylan yells, "What about the others?!"
Chaska simply replies, "It's over, Dylan. They're...they're all gone. Destroyed, dead, whatever you wanna call it."
Dylan angrily smashes the car's dashboard with his fist, "FUCK!"
Chaska winces but keeps his eyes on the road. He looks at the rearview mirror again. The warehouse is nowhere in sight, and there are no Garou in sight, either.
"Chaska," Dylan whispers, "What happened? What the fuck happened in there?!"
"I don't know, Dylan. I really don't. All I know is we HAVE TO inform Prince Lucas."
Dylan sniffles and wipes his nose with the sleeve of his shirt. He's still shaking. He's still traumatized.
Dylan says, "It just doesn't make any--any sense."
Chaska shrugs, "Garou are many things, Duskborn, but senseless isn't one of them."
Dylan scowls, "You're taking their side?!"
Chaska shakes his head, "No, of course not. I'm simply suggesting that there might be a reason behind all of this. They have a reason for everything they do."
He looks at the rearview mirror again, looking for signs of Garou following in the darkness.
Nothing.
Dylan murmurs, "I don't care about any of that, Chaska."
"I am sorry, Dylan. Your co-workers..." He sighs, "I'm sorry."
Dylan emptily looks out the window, "Not only co-workers. There were other Thin-Bloods in there; Thin-Bloods who looked up to me." He sniffles, "It wasn't supposed to be like this." He looks at his shaking hands.
"I should've done more," he whispers to himself.
"You did all you could in such a situation, Dylan."
Dylan smacks the dashboard again, "I didn't DO ENOUGH, dammit! I--I..."
Tears mixed with blood stream down Dylan's face. They trickle off his chin and onto his shirt.
Chaska looks at him with sympathy. He doesn't say a word. He just quietly watches the road as they speed off into the night.
Despite driving above the speed limit, it's a long journey to where Prince Lucas is currently staying. The lights of the town slowly fade into the distance.
Dylan asks, "What are you gonna do when you get there, hmm?"
Chaska murmurs, "Tell the Prince, inform the Sheriff...all the usual things."
Dylan scratches his scruffy beard, "What do you think is gonna be in the news? The attack? The dead bodies?"
Chaska looks at the mirror and says, "I'd rather not think about that right now. Enough blood has been shed and enough violence has been committed. We will deal with the fallout later." He looks back at the road.
"Where are we even headed anyway?"
"A trailer park off the highway. We'll find the Prince there."
"That's it?"
As Chaska turns his head to answer, Dylan points to a large deer standing in the middle of the road.
"OH SHIT, WATCH OUT!!!"
Chaska's eyes go wide as he brakes the car hard, but it's too late as a nasty thud is heard. Dylan is nearly thrown forward if it wasn't for his seatbelt. He curses under his breath as he looks at Chaska.
The Raven turns his head from Dylan to the rearview mirror. He hears a faint whimper close by.
Chaska's eyes grow even wider.
Dylan takes off his seatbelt and steps out of the vehicle. He notices the deer on the road, in front of them. It doesn't move an inch.
Without second thought, he bends down and bites the animal's neck. The deer jerks a bit, but then falls limp. It has stopped breathing.
Dylan gulps down the animal's blood, "Hmm."
Chaska, feeling a bit hungry, bends down and joins Dylan in draining this deer. He sniffs and licks at the deer's blood, trying to get the last of it.
Dylan is too busy draining this large animal to even notice Chaska next to him. He just gulps and gulps, sucking all the blood out of the deer.
Chaska feels the deer's blood make its way into his system.
It's not sufficient for a vampire of his...caliber, but he feels a lot better. He closes his eyes and sighs. He feels a wave of relief wash over his body.
He looks at the deer and sees that it has become an empty shell. A husk.
Dylan swallows the last of the deer's blood and wipes his mouth with the sleeve of his shirt.
He looks slightly better. His eyes are no longer bloodshot and he no longer looks like a scared and traumatized mess.
Chaska looks at the deer's exsanguinated corpse, "We shouldn't just leave it here. Grab its feet." He picks up one side of the deer and carries it in his arms, with its head dangling down.
Dylan grabs the other side, "Why?"
"Vampire hunters, Dylan. Mostly independent. You never know when they might be on the road."
Dylan murmurs, "Shit."
The duo throw the deer into some nearby bushes.
They get back in the car and Chaska speeds off into the night.
Chaska regards Dylan for a few moments, "The way you went for that deer...I take it that it's not your first time?"
Dylan scoffs, "What's it to you?"
"Nothing. I'm just curious. I know you Thin-Bloods are quite different from us so-called 'regular' Kindred."
"Hmph. Whatever, man. Let's just get to that damn trailer park and get this over with." He stares at his bloodstained hands. They tremble.
Chaska continues, "I can sense a...disturbance raging within you, Young One."
Dylan sneers, "Don't patronize me, we've already been through a lot of shit tonight." He rubs his temples, "Just shut up, alright? Just--Just shut up and drive." He turns his head to look out the window.
He stares at the trees that line the highway. He's lost in his thoughts as he stares blankly ahead. His thoughts are a muddled mess, but his emotions are clear. He feels anger, guilt, shame...
Dylan sighs, "I only...go for animals."
Chaska maintains his grip on the steering wheel, "Hmm?"
Dylan continues, "The animals around town. I made a decision long a--ago to never drink human blood. E--Ever." He stares at the trees whizzing by. He watches them, his mind seemingly going elsewhere.
"Never," he whispers.
Chaska replies, "Interesting. So, all those reports I've been hearing about missing or mutilated animals..." He leaves the rest unsaid. It's pretty obvious.
Dylan pensively lowers his head, "It's better than missing or mutilated people, right? I'm doing this for them! I'm doing it for all of them!" His eyes get a bit glassy. He swallows the lump in his throat.
Chaska wryly remarks, "Dylan the vegan vampire."
Dylan weakly chuckles, "Or as vegan as one can be in our...position. Heh."
Chaska reassuringly says, "Your secret will be safe with me, Chameleon. But I don't know how others will take to it."
He pauses as he eases his foot off the accelerator, "The Prince and Sheriff, specifically. Although, I doubt they'll care much." He looks at Dylan, who remains silent, lost in thought.
Chaska adds, "I must confess that I've done my fair share of animal killing, Young One, so I won't judge you."
He turns his attention back to the road. "I won't judge you...at all," he whispers the last part.
Dylan bitterly mutters a small "Thanks," and goes back to staring out the window. He watches the town pass by.
It feels like a rather serene sight in the face of the gruesome slaughter that transpired in the warehouse.
Dylan closes his eyes and rests his scratched head against the car window. He's in desperate need of rest. The night has been...long. It's been too long.
In time, the duo arrive at a the trailer park. There are dozens of cars and RVs parked on the dirt road that leads through the site. The trailer park is illuminated by bright, vibrant tones of orange, white, and yellow emitted by various dwellings.
The sound of crickets chirping and wind whistling fills the air, while the smell of damp soil lingers.
This is one of the many trailer parks on the outskirts of the town. It's also where Prince Lucas and many other Ravnos will be sleeping for the day.
Chaska pulls over in front of what looks like a large, red metal trailer, with a set of wooden steps leading up to a small door. On the side is the number "59".
He gets out of the car, along with Dylan. They both look terrible, clothes torn, faces and hands bloodied and scratched. Dylan still seems to be shaken by the night's events.
Dylan murmurs, "This...this is where you've been living?"
Chaska replies, "Well, yes...and no. I assume you know about the Ravnos Clan Bane?"
"Mm-hmm. Somethin' about catching fire if you stay in one place for too long? Hmph, messed up stuff."
Chaska nods, "Indeed, but we learn to adapt to it."
Chaska raps his knuckles on the trailer's small door. He knocks in a certain rhythm- one that would notify his fellow Ravnos of his identity. A secret code, of sorts.
The door opens and Prince Lucas stands there, wearing a simple green t-shirt and checkered pajama pants. He squints his eyes in the light and scratches his chin.
A look of shock comes over his face as he looks at the 2 battered vampires before him, "Wha...What happened?! Did...did you 2 get into some kind a fight?!" He looks back and forth from Chaska to Dylan, clearly confused and taken aback.
Chaska simply says, "The Garou. They hit the Amazon warehouse tonight. They killed many mortals and destroyed an equal number of Thin-Bloods."
Dylan dryly nods and lets Chaska do all the talking.
Prince Lucas says, "WHAT?! How?! What about the Thin-Bloods?! Are there any more survivors?!" His face grows worried and his eyes go wide as he listens.
Dylan shakes his head, "It's just us, man. Everyone else is...gone." He lowers his head as he thinks back to the horror.
The Prince is utterly speechless. He looks away and clenches his fists. He angrily punches the wall.
He yells, "HOW COULD THIS HAPPEN?! The Thin-Bloods in town were supposed to be safe!"
Some other Ravnos in the trailer gather around to see what's going on.
Prince Lucas looks at them and waves them all off. He then looks back to Chaska and Dylan.
Chaska recounts the horrors that transpired earlier tonight. He omits his Frenzy, though. That is something only he knows (and something that ONLY he'll have to contend with).
Dylan remains silent, arms crossed.
Chaska looks to his fellow Ravnos, "It...It was bad, really fucking bad."
A Ravnos cranes her neck from behind the group to see, "I didn't know that there were that many Thin-Bloods in town."
Dylan chimes in, "You can thank the old Prince for the...surge. I know a lot of the Thin-Bloods didn't have anywhere else to go, so they ended up in the Amazon warehouse."
He glares at Lucas, "Guess that was one of the many fuck-ups you inherited, eh? Hmph." He shakes his head.
The Prince regards him sternly, but beckons for Chaska to go on.
He continues.
Another Ravnos asks, "How many were there?"
Chaska groans, "It was hard to tell, especially among the carnage and chaos, but I'm gonna assume about...uh...around a dozen or so?"
Prince Lucas slams his fist on a nearby table, "THIS CAN'T STAND! NO! THE GAROU...THEY CAN'T GET AWAY WITH THIS! Not in MY town!"
Everyone else in the room murmurs and whispers amongst each other, as they discuss the matter.
Dylan sits down on a nearby couch.
Lucas puts his hands on his hips and sighs. He looks out the trailer's window as the others continue discussing amongst themselves. He contemplates. He thinks. He plans.
Chaska approaches him, "We need to push that Tremere harder. The Sheriff, too."
The Prince turns to him, "What are you implying, Chaska?"
"I think you know exactly what I'm implying. This is getting outta hand. Those...things aren't just going to leave us alone. You know how...persistent the Garou can be."
Chaska continues, "Point is, we're all at risk. We need to inform the Sheriff as well. But, the sun's coming up soon, so...you'll have to send someone. Now." He sighs as he looks to the window.
A distant glow begins to peek over the horizon.
Prince Lucas pinches the bridge of his nose, "Call Keith, and tell him to bring Kelly over here, now." He shakes his head and runs a hand through his hair.
Keith and Kelly arrive. They both look a bit...flustered and disheveled; their clothes are in a bit of a mess. They don't say anything, though. They simply stand in the room, looking at everyone.
Prince Lucas notices them. He stares at Keith.
He commands, "You and Kelly must drive over to Sheriff Eunice's Haven. Inform her of what has happened tonight. As for your sleeping arrangements, I'm sure you 2 will think of something."
The Prince then hands them a small piece of paper, "Here's the Sheriff's address. Now, go! Hurry! You haven't much time left until dawn." He nods at them.
They both nod back and exit the trailer. It's going to be a long drive to the Sheriff's Haven.
It's a good thing Keith's 1966 Pontiac GTO is parked nearby.
Keith gets in and starts the car while Kelly sits in the passenger seat. They're off, tires squealing. The sunrise is fast approaching, but they can still make it before the sun's out.
Besides, Keith knows a few shortcuts. One of the many must-knows for a Ravnos who wishes to remain "alive".
The other Ravnos in the trailer go back to discussing what's been done and what's gonna be done.
Some loll around on bean bags. Some talk amongst themselves. Others are discussing tactics and strategies.
A few are having discussions about whether this is something to be taken lightly. Or something that warrants being taken seriously at all.
Maybe both. Maybe neither.
Prince Lucas goes to a folding cot and tells Chaska, "We'll have to deal with this when we get some more details, but for now, I need to sleep." He lies on the cot, covering himself with a blanket.
Prince Lucas looks at the banged-up vampire, "I hope you get some rest, Chaska. You really need it."
Chaska replies, "We all need rest, Lucash."
"Hmm. There are some extra blankets in the there," he gestures to a small cupboard in the corner, "Make sure Dylan gets some sleep. He doesn't seem so well."
Chaska goes to see that Dylan is just lying back on the couch, arms and legs sprawled out, staring at the ceiling. His face is completely void of emotion. It's hard to tell if he's awake or not.
Chaska pats him on the shoulder and Dylan simply grunts, not saying a word.
Chaska then hands Dylan a blanket and 2 pillows, "Will this be OK?"
Dylan bitterly chuckles, "A hell lot better than the bed back in my place, that's for sure." He groggily rubs his eyes.
Chaska says, "Oh, before I forget. That Tremere, Maya, says hi." He smiles.
Dylan shakes his head, "She picked a helluva time to become one of us, huh?"
Chaska nods, "Indeed. Yet, she might be the key to...all this." He scratches his chin and frowns. He sighs. "Rest well, Young One. We'll talk more when the sun's down."
Dylan places his hand on Chaska's shoulder, "I...just wanted to thank you, Chaska. For everything."
Chaska looks to him with a mixed expression, "I did what I had to do, but a part of me wishes that I didn't have to." He looks away and sighs. "It's...hard, dealing with this."
Chaska leaves Dylan be and hears a creaking sound. It's coming from Prince Lucas's cot. He turns his head and sees that the Prince is now wide awake, sitting up on his cot.
He looks at Chaska and gestures him over.
Prince Lucas looks perturbed as he rubs his face with his hands and groans.
Chaska approaches him, "Something the matter?"
Prince Lucas quietly says, "Something that has been troubling me for the past few nights, actually."
He continues, "Something that Lasombra Elder, Simon, told me."
Chaska raises his eyebrows and nods, "Go on."
The Prince props himself up, "He claimed that the Ventrue were plotting against me."
Chaska shakes his head in disbelief, "That doesn't seem very likely. Arman has been nothing but loyal to you, hasn't he?"
The Prince replies, "Mostly. I know him well enough, but not as well as I would like to." He pauses, "I want him to remain in his position, but..." He looks away as his voice trails off.
Chaska puts a hand on his shoulder, "But what?"
Prince Lucas says, "You know that Arman and Dylan are not exactly on good terms?"
"What do you mean?" Chaska tilts his head.
The Prince responds, "I'm not entirely sure of the reasons. Perhaps it's the Ventrue's Compulsion for Arrogance, or perhaps it's a personal matter, but as far as I know, they have never gotten along."
Chaska scratches his forehead, "It just seems so...unlikely."
"Maybe not to you, but to me? I--I'm not sure." He shakes his head, "And to be honest, I'm a bit worried."
"Why is that?"
"Without the support of the Ventrue, I--"
He pauses for a few moments before continuing, "I'm not sure what the Sheriff and I would do, were it to come down to that." He looks to the floor.
Chaska squeezes the Prince's shoulder, "Look, maybe it's something, maybe it's nothing."
He then gets up to close the thick blackout curtains that cover the windows. He looks to the colorful sky and says, "It's just paranoia mixed in with the pressures inherent to Princehood. You shouldn't let it get to you, OK?" He turns back to the Prince.
Prince Lucas weakly nods, "Alright." He closes his eyes and lies back down, covering himself with his blanket.
Chaska settles into an empty mattress and eventually succumbs to the day-sleep as do all the other Kindred in the town of Plaintry.
Meanwhile, in the wilds...
Gus stands still as a statue, face expressionless.
Sheila bawls her eyes out. She can't take it. It's all too much. She just cries and cries and cries. She feels a pain in her chest. A pain in her heart.
Erika is in tears and can't even bear to look.
Gavin stands there, unmoving, as he listens to his sister's sobs. His face is full of rage and sorrow.
They just stand there and look at Daniel's disemboweled body.
No one says a word.
He was killed while in Lupus (true "wolf") form.
Torvald and Gunnar have just dug a hole to bury Daniel in. Even they're done. They have no more strength left in them.
"It wasn't supposed to be like this," Torvald quietly whispers to himself.
Gunnar glares at Torvald but decides to keep his mouth shut.
Anja and Emi stand a bit far away, their heads lowered out of respect. Their expressions are blank, as are their eyes.
Anja feels the wind against her skin and closes her eyes.
Erika slowly walks up to her brother's body (or what remains of it). She bends down and puts her hands on his furry head.
She whispers, "I'm so sorry, Daniel."
Sheila throws herself on the ground and caresses her son's dead body. The tears of a bereaved mother drench the earth.
Erika walks over and puts her hand on her mother's shoulder.
Sheila doesn't react. She just continues to hold onto the mangled corpse and rocks back and forth.
Gus is still standing there, motionless, but his eyes are now closed. A few silent tears roll down his cheeks.
Emi and Anja come up to him and offer their condolences. They simply look at him with a sad expression.
Sheila finally stops crying and takes her hands off Daniel.
Gavin picks up the dead wolf and heads over to the hole.
The rest look down the hole and watch as Gavin gently places Daniel's body inside it.
"I'm sorry, man," Gavin shakily says.
Torvald and Gunnar fill in the hole with dirt.
When the grave is fully covered, they stand around it and bow their heads.
Gus speaks up, "May Gaia guide Daniel into his final resting place. May the ever-corrupting influences of the Wyrm not defile his memory. May he be remembered as a loving son. May he be remembered, always."
Everyone lowers their head at this. There are no tears anymore. They are dry. There are no more tears to cry. There's only the overwhelming sense of loss and regret.
The sun rears its fiery head and they all look up. They have no choice but to leave Daniel's body behind. No other decent spot to bury him is available. They are too deep within the wilderness. This was the best they could do.
Gus and Sheila feel a little guilty about it, a little guilty that they had to bury Daniel so far away. So far away from what is considered civilization.
No further words are spoken as the remaining Garou leave the area and head back to their resting places.
It's the BNB for Torvald, Gunnar, Anja, and Emi. Gus and what remains of his family are staying elsewhere. He feels the weight of this loss deeply. He knows that he'll never be the same after this.
None of them will.
And, it's not likely they'll live long enough to process, let alone recover from this.
The orchestrator of this brutal slaughter, Arman Rajakrishnan of Clan Ventrue, is lost in day-sleep as the sun rises. He neither sees nor cares for the faces of the people who were killed and destroyed a few hours back.
He doesn't see how much pain and sorrow he has caused by unleashing the Garou on that warehouse.
Still, he's in for quite a surprise when he finds out that Dylan survived the attack, even though he was supposed to be slaughtered with all the others.
When Arman finds out, he's gonna be pissed; he's gonna be fuming.
Some hours later...
That great star of the sky, the sun, has finally come out and is beaming its bright rays. The mortals in Plaintry are wide awake and going about their lives.
A 911 call went out as the massacre of the Amazon warehouse was ongoing.
Second Inquisition techs managed to intercept the call. Teams Echo and Foxtrot were sent to "investigate" the incident.
They only saw the aftermath of the horrors. With local PD approaching, the teams made a tactical retreat and reported their findings to FBI Special Agent Higgins.
Special Agent Higgins has been up for the past few hours, fueled by nothing but the blackest of black coffee. His eyes are bloodshot and he has dark rings underneath them. He looks like death warmed over.
He has been fielding phone call after phone call, trying to keep everything under control (and wraps). On certain social media channels, the news has already spread like wildfire.
Cops have already gone through the warehouse and are now investigating the events that transpired.
The 911 calls are either being withheld or conveniently go missing from the systems.
In other words, SI techs have already intercepted and taken over the calls before they even hit the switchboard.
FBI Special Agent Higgins certainly has his work cut out for him. He needs to be on top of everything. He needs to stay informed, he needs to stay in contact with the team that is handling the situation.
And he needs another cup of coffee.
He barks, "Davidson! More coffee!" His smooth, charming, southern accent is a bit rougher than usual.
One of the agents quickly grabs a mug and prepares the agent's coffee. He smacks the coffee machine, trying to get it to start working.
It seems to be a bit slow.
Special Agent Higgins frantically paces around as a scowl forms on his face. He's got a phone pressed up to his ear.
He nods and sighs, "Yes, Ms. Nicolaides. I understand. No, this...attack seems a lot more messy than what you'd expect from a buncha blank bodies. Uh-huh."
He glances over to the coffee machine and continues, "We already have our best and brightest on it. If they can figure out what happened, I promise, we'll take it to the next level."
He pauses and looks around, "It'd be nice to have the cam footage from the warehouse. You think NSA would be--"
He frowns as he's cut off. He leans against a desk and sighs, "Alright. Alright. You're right, Ms. Nicolaides. Thank you."
He angrily hangs up the phone and brings his fist down on his desk. He sighs and looks up at the ceiling, "Damn it!"
Davidson pours the freshly brewed coffee into the agent's mug. He places the mug down on a table and shakily asks, "Any news, s--sir?"
Higgins groans, "No. Just make sure the techs do their...thing, understood?"
"Yes, sir." Davidson leaves to go talk to the techs in another room.
Higgins takes a sip of coffee and curses under his breath. His tongue has already been burnt more than once today.
He picks up the phone and dials a number. He leans back and waits. He brings his mug up to his lips, taking another sip.
At the scene of the crime...
The cops have already cordoned off the entire Amazon warehouse with yellow caution tape. Officers in blue are posted in all corners. They have the whole scene under lock and key.
And so does the FBI.
The bodies of the dead are being counted. Remains are being photographed, scanned, and tested by forensics teams.
A few local cops have come in to try and assist with the investigation.
The footage from the warehouse's security cameras is completely live. There are no recordings or external backups of any sort.
A few minutes pass as the cops loll around while the forensics teams do most of the heavy lifting.
Officers Jenn and Neil roll up to the crime scene. They come bearing gifts- 2 boxes, each containing a dozen doughnuts of varying flavors.
A cop immediately pulls up the yellow tape and allows his blue colleagues inside.
Officer Jenn flips the box open and offers a piece to that cop. Neil goes over to the other cops and loudly greets them.
Jenn shrugs as she helps herself to a bite. She's not really hungry, but it's something to do. She doesn't wanna leave just yet.
The forensics teams have just about wrapped up their work. They've taken photographs and done blood tests and have already collected all the samples.
Neil makes his rounds, "Whoa, whoa, whoa! What the fuck happened here?"
Jenn stands besides him, mouth full of doughnut, "Looks like someone let a wild animal loose." A few bits of chewed food come flying out of her mouth.
Neil nods, "Yeah, looks like it, huh? But, wild animals? In Plaintry? C'mon, Jenn, you know the town has NEVER had anything like this." He takes a doughnut from one of the boxes and bites it.
Jenn shrugs and gestures around, "Well, that's why we're here. Any uh...survivors? Witnesses?"
Neil grunts, "Nope and nope. Nothing. Not even a fucking hint. We have no idea what we're even dealing with here."
"Hmm, makes me wonder how that can happen. A warehouse filled with people, but no witnesses or survivors?" She shakes her head and continues eating.
In the course of time, Mayor Duncan Costner arrives at the scene of the crime. He's flanked by big, burly men in suits and dark shades who try their best to block anyone from getting too close to him.
He makes his way through the crowd of officers. They salute as he passes by.
Mayor Duncan Costner is a tall man, standing at 6 feet and 4 inches. He's in his late 60s, receding hairline, clean shaven, and his sunglasses sit on top of his head. He has a firm posture, but is rather frail looking.
His wife, Priscilla Lin-Costner, is in her late 30s. She's an East Asian woman with a slender figure; her black hair drapes down to her shoulders. She has a pretty face. She's in the background, standing by her husband.
Clearly a trophy wife, if ever there was one.
The Mayor makes his way to the nearest cop and shakes his hands. He makes sure that he's photographed and filmed by the cameras while doing this.
The Mayor's bodyguards eventually step in and disperse the camera crews, giving the Mayor and his wife some space.
He adjusts his shirt collar, "Tell me, officer. What are we dealing with here?" His accent is neutral and well-spoken.
The cop responds, "We don't know yet, Mr. Mayor. So far, it looks like some kind of a massacre. Some sort of...an attack." He's standing at attention and is keeping his posture firm.
Priscilla looks around the place and softly gasps as she sees the white sheets covering the dead bodies.
Mayor Duncan notices his wife, "Honey?"
"I--It's just awful, Duncan," Priscilla responds.
He says, "I'm sure the...people that did this didn't have good intentions."
The cop interjects, "We're not even sure if it was 'people' that did this, sir."
The Mayor raises an eyebrow, "What do you mean?"
The cop scratches the back of his neck, "Uh...some of them have, I uh--"
The Mayor commands, "Spit it out, boy."
The cop gulps and continues, "Bite marks and um...scratches all over their bodies, o--or what's left of 'em anyway, sir."
The Mayor says, "Lord in Heaven, have mercy." He looks away, dumbfounded. He lets out a soft sigh and asks, "Any survivors?"
The cop shakes his head, "Nothing so far, sir."
Priscilla shakily asks, "W--Witnesses, perhaps?"
"No ma'am."
Mayor Duncan calls what appears to be his assistant over and converses with him for a few moments.
The assistant suggests, "They're gonna have a field day. God, I hope we can get ahead of this."
The Mayor asks, "Any suggestions?"
The assistant nods, "Actually, there was a truck transporting wild animals around the time of the incident. I suggest we pin everything on that."
"Hmm." The Mayor thinks for a moment before giving out another command, "Tell the cops to talk to the truck drivers. Make sure we don't have any loose ends, got it?"
The assistant nods, "Yes, sir." He quickly makes his way towards the local cops. They get into a heated discussion. The assistant has a tablet in hand and is taking notes.
A police officer approaches the Mayor, "Sir, we're not even sure if they're even involved. B--But we went ahead and got the truck drivers."
The Mayor grimly nods, "Keep 'em locked up for as long as you have to. What I want is a believable story for the news. I want things kept as quiet as possible, understood?"
The cop nods, "Yes, Mr. Mayor."
Priscilla asks, "What kind of animals were they transporting?"
The cop replies, "I believe they were exotic wild animals. I'm not too sure, ma'am. Sorry."
The Mayor nods, "Well, it's something to keep people calm. We can't have disorder and panic, not at a time like this."
The Mayor looks around, "Have you found anything else of note, officer? Anything we can use to piece everything together?"
The officer looks down, "A lot of...ash." She gulps, "S--Sir, I'm not too sure how to explain this. I've...I've never seen anything like it before." She looks up, meeting the Mayor's gaze.
Mayor Duncan Costner sighs, "Get to the bottom of it, officer. Dismissed."
The officer smiles, "Thank you, sir. And thank you for your continued support during these trying times, sir." She firmly nods and walks away.
Mayor Duncan Costner looks at the white sheets covering the dead bodies. His expression is largely unreadable.
Priscilla looks at her husband, "There's nothing more we can do here." She gestures towards the exit. Her tone of voice is soft.
The Mayor sighs and shakes his head. He then puts his arm around his wife and heads for the exit. The camera crew follows them and gets ready to capture the next important moment.
He holds a hand up as people with cameras, tape recorders, and microphones swarm him, "Ladies. Gentlemen." He motions with his hands for them to calm down a bit.
The Mayor clears his throat and raises his chin a bit, "What happened here today is nothing short of a tragedy. A truck carrying wild animals has crashed on our town's highway, resulting in the escape of those animals."
He pauses and goes on, "I must urge all the citizens of Plaintry to keep calm and cooperate with the authorities in all things, as the rest of those animals are still at large." He pauses and takes a breath.
He continues, "As of now, I urge everyone to stay indoors and lock your doors. Report any suspicious activity. Do not hesitate to report anything out of the ordinary, as it can be an indication of a dangerous situation."
He pauses and looks around, "What we are dealing with today is beyond anything I could have ever expected in this town that I love with all my heart."
He concludes, "Finally, Priscilla and I extend our thoughts and prayers to those who lost their lives here today and to their families. Pray for their souls. Pray that they are in a better place--"
One of the reporters pushes their way to the front, "Mayor Costner, Mayor Costner, wasn't it you who approved the building of the Amazon warehouse in the first place?" The reporter is wearing a black suit.
Mayor Duncan Costner freezes for a second as the reporter's question hangs in the air. He quickly recovers, "Yes. I did. And, I'll do it again if I have to, but--"
A female reporter interjects, "Weren't there allegations that you took multiple bribes to fast-track the warehouse approval?"
Mayor Duncan Costner glares at her, "Who told you this nonsense? Hmm?!" His voice is suddenly hard. His expression is a mix of anger and annoyance.
He raises a stern finger and wags it at the reporters, "You 2 are messing around with things you don't understand." His words are slow and deliberate.
The reporters and the camera crews back off, not wanting to get in trouble.
Priscilla tugs on her husband's sleeve, "Duncan, let's go. Enough is enough." She sighs and leads him away from the scene.
Mayor Duncan Costner looks back with contempt at the reporters and camera crew. They continue to stare at him. He gives a final glare before making his way out with his wife.
As they walk down, a few journalists and camera crews follow behind.
The Mayor's bodyguards physically block the journalists and cameras.
Mayor Duncan Costner is far too busy thinking about how this tragedy reflects on his image, his political career, and his potential legacy.
The reporters and camera crews are simply trying to do their job, even if they're a bit...pushy about it.
Eventually, they make it outside.
The cameras turn off and the reporters make their way to their respective cars and vans. The Mayor's assistant gets into his car and drives off.
As the Mayor is leaving, a black SUV pulls up, its tires screech to a halt. A few FBI agents step out. They're all wearing their FBI windbreakers and caps.
The Mayor tells the driver to hold on, as he takes off his sunglasses. He rolls down the window and sees the FBI agents making their way over to him. He frowns.
The Mayor's bodyguards tense up as they see the agents approaching.
Special Agent Higgins pulls out his badge and flashes it at the Mayor. He motions for him to get out of the car, "Sir, I need to speak with you." His voice is firm and professional.
The Mayor glares at him, "And what business do you people have with me?"
Special Agent Higgins chuckles, "Your...distrust of the federal government is well-known, sir. But I'm not here to talk politics. I'm here to talk about the incident at the Amazon warehouse."
Higgins goes on, "We're simply here to offer our assistance, sir." He's being as vague as he can possibly be.
The Mayor scoffs, "'Assistance.' Tch. We don't need big government meddling in the affairs of Plaintry. I have a well-funded police department for a reason, Higgins."
Higgins nods, "We understand that, sir. And we will only act as an asset if it comes to it, but there's a lotta media attention here and there's a lot more questions that need answerin', sir."
The Mayor preens himself, "Since when does the Federal Bureau of Investigation answer questions? Hmm? We can handle this ourselves, Higgins."
Special Agent Higgins shakes his head, "With all due respect, sir, you and your staff have your hands full right now. We're the only ones with the resources to cover this."
The Mayor looks the other way, "Is that so?"
Higgins clears his throat, "Sir, may I speak with you in private? For a moment?"
Mayor Duncan frowns and thinks it over for a few seconds before nodding.
Higgins smiles and gestures towards a nearby tree, "This way, please."
Mayor Duncan rolls his eyes and clambers out of the car.
The 2 go to the large tree. The Mayor tells his bodyguards to standby. They're clearly on edge, but they do as they're told.
Higgins clasps his hands behind his back and stands by the tree. He stands there and looks at the Mayor, patiently waiting.
The Mayor says, "I don't have all day for you people. Spit it out." His tone is icy, and his words are blunt.
Higgins nods, "What happened at the Amazon warehouse is big news, sir, and I understand your concerns, but there are things at play that even you cannot possibly comprehend."
He continues, "What we're dealing with here is an organized threat, sir, a threat that is on a larger scale than you or I are thinking about."
The Mayor asks, "What, like terrorists?"
"In a manner of speaking, yes. However, I am not at liberty to divulge any further information, sir."
Mayor Duncan rubs his temple, "Lemme guess, some tree-hugging, animal-loving eco-terrorist or something?" He snorts.
Higgins smirks, "If that's what you wanna believe, sir. Regardless, I've been appointed to take over this case."
The Mayor glares at him, "Appointed by who exactly?"
Higgins raises his chin, "I am not at liberty to say, sir. That is classified and remains a matter of national security. I'm sure you appreciate that."
"Tch, alright." The Mayor crosses his arms.
Higgins continues, "For now, I'll take care of this case. Please make sure that my people have full access to any and all resources they need."
The Mayor reluctantly says, "Whatever you want. Just do what you have to do and get the hell out."
Mayor Duncan prepares to storm off, but Higgins steps in, "I know how this must be tough for you, sir. You're under a lot of pressure and scrutiny right now. I can assure you that I'm only here to help."
He smiles, "Let my people take care of this case. You can get all the glory after."
Higgins sizes the Mayor up from head to toe, "You might find this hard to believe, Mr. Mayor, but I represent an organization that works toward the betterment of our great nation."
The Mayor perches an eyebrow, "I do find that very hard to believe, Agent Higgins."
Higgins shrugs and goes on, "Not only for betterment but for greater security as well." He takes a deep breath and looks him in the eyes, trying to gauge what his response will be.
"What kind of 'greater security' are we talking about here, Higgins?" Mayor Duncan is cautiously curious. He knows that the FBI has access to all sorts of secretive stuff.
"Y'know the situation at the southern border is...tense, sir. We have no idea who or what might slip past us."
"Hm. Tell me about it." The Mayor's eyes dart around.
Agent Higgins goes on, "I know you're a 'tough on crime' type of politician. You have the reputation, sir. We...want you on our side."
Mayor Duncan scoffs, "Who the hell is 'we'? You STILL haven't said anything useful." His voice is getting louder as the anger builds within him. He doesn't appreciate being spoken down to.
Or treated as if he were stupid.
Higgins softly laughs as he quickly changes the subject, "Y'know, Bernice's withdrawal from the mayoral race has been quite advantageous for you, hasn't it?" His tone is slightly sarcastic. His grin is knowing. His gaze is pointed.
It's clear he knows what he's doing.
The Mayor's face tics and he frowns. His voice is low as he says, "She wasn't exactly popular with the people around here."
He shuffles around for a bit and continues, "It...it was only a matter of time before her...questionable ethics caught up with her. I had nothing to do with it. That's just politics." He smirks. His tone is defensive.
"Indeed, it is, Mr. Mayor. But people...talk." His eyes twinkle a bit. He's obviously got the Mayor right where he wants him.
The Mayor folds his arms and asks, "What are you insinuating here, Agent Higgins?" His face is flushed and red, he's getting quite upset now.
The fact that an FBI agent has the audacity to bring up this matter makes it all the worse.
"I've been in the game long enough to know...certain things. From what I've been hearin', people out there have been sayin' you paid the redhead to spill the beans."
Oh, he's good.
Special Agent Higgins knows exactly what buttons to push. He knows which cards to play. He's not stupid. Far from it, in fact. He's a skilled manipulator.
The Mayor tenses his facial muscles and speaks through gritted teeth, "As I said, I had NOTHING to do with ANY of that, Agent Higgins. I will not say another word about this. This conversation is OVER." He pokes his finger in Higgins's chest.
Higgins has one last trick up his sleeve. He smugly nods and says, "Fine, fine." He leans against a tree and pretends to look around, as if he's got all the time in the world.
He then says, "What if I told you that I was in...possession of certain information regarding the tragic demise of William McMahon and his family."
When the Mayor hears his cousin's name being uttered, he grabs Agent Higgins by the front of his windbreaker and presses him against a tree, "What the fuck do you mean by that?! Is this some kind of a joke?! Is that what this is?! Huh?!" His tone is hard and sharp.
The veins on his forehead are visible. His teeth are clenched.
Agent Higgins maintains his composure and replies, "Maybe their mansion didn't just burn down. Maybe it burned down on purpose. Maybe that...little accident...wasn't so...accidental after all." He's very matter of fact about this.
The Mayor lets go of the FBI agent and backs off. He glares at the agent for a few more seconds before taking a deep breath. His anger dissipates and is replaced by confusion, as well as concern.
"Wha--what are you saying? I heard that the FBI was snooping around the area." The Mayor looks at him. His face is still flushed red.
Higgins adjusts his clothes and replies, "We're still looking into it, but...we might be willing to share what we've learned so far in exchange for--"
The Mayor holds up a finger and stops him, "In exchange for resources, access, etcetera?" His eyes narrow. His jaw clenches. His mouth twists.
Special Agent Higgins smiles and silently nods.
The Mayor lets out a long sigh, "Fine. You'll have whatever you want. J--Just find the bastards who did this to William and his family. They were good people." His eyes water. A lone tear escapes.
Special Agent Higgins pats the Mayor on the shoulder, "Good. That's what we like to hear. We'll be in touch." His smile widens as he walks away with a certain pep in his step.
Mayor Duncan plays around with his hair before heading back to his car. He gives the order for the bodyguards to get inside.
Priscilla asks, "Is everything OK? You look...different, Duncan. Are you sure you're feeling alright?" She gives him a worried look as she reaches out to touch his hand.
His thoughts are elsewhere. He then brushes her hand off and tells the driver to get moving.
Priscilla shakes her head and idly stares out the window. It's not easy being married to a guy like him, that's for sure. She feels lonely sometimes. Very lonely. It's not fun. Not for a single minute.
Her thoughts drift off. She wondered what it would've been like had she not met him at the RNC (Republican National Convention) all those years ago.
She was in her 20s. Wide-eyed, beautiful, and brimming with enthusiasm.
Duncan was in his early 50s. Ambitious and driven. He was quite handsome and dashing too, not to mention rich.
Whatever spark they once had is all gone now. He doesn't have his eyes for her now, and she's started feeling the same way for the past few months.
The marriage counsellors at the church they both attend are useless, their "advice" more suited for many centuries ago (or no century at all).
Not to mention, Mayor Duncan's rather...antiquated ideas about marriage, sex, gender, etcetera are holding him back from truly connecting with his wife.
Priscilla shares some of these antiquated ideas as well, so she's not without fault, but there is still a clear distinction between the 2 of them. A chasm, even.
It seems to be widening as the days (and nights) roll on.
Mayor Duncan has been distraught over the death of William McMahon (and his family). William was his cousin, and more importantly, his biggest donor. His money, power, and connections helped put Duncan into office in the first place!
With William being reduced to nothing but ash, his chances of being re-elected would have dramatically decreased.
BUT, Bernice's withdrawal provided that little boon he needed to automatically propel him into yet another term. A stroke of luck, if there ever was one.
A goddamn silver lining, if ever there was one.
And with the Democrat primary out of the picture, there was no other serious contender for Mayor of Plaintry. No other opponent, in fact.
There's no doubt about it, Mayor Duncan should count himself very fortunate to get into the Mayor's office and stay there, at least for a few more years.
Meanwhile, this horror at the warehouse has already been blowing up all over social media; family members, partners, children, parents, and friends of the affected have taken to various outlets to express their grief (and anger).
And they want answers. They want to know why and how this tragedy occurred. They want to know why so many innocent lives were lost.
They could never truly know, of course. Nor was it likely that they ever would.
Schools have been declared closed (indefinitely), with many children having lost their parents, siblings, guardians, or close relatives.
They're gonna be in a rough place for quite some time, that much is certain.
Bereaved and bereft. Confused. Angry. Sad. Upset. Afraid. Depressed. Grieving.
These emotions (and many more) are going to haunt those poor souls for many, many years to come.
The great tragedy of it all is the Garou are just pawns in all this madness, too.
Pawns who had now outlived their usefulness and had no idea of what awaited them.
It seems that last week's...scandal involving Bernice has almost been expunged from the minds of a now-saddened populace, who has no choice but to process (as best they can) this unimaginable loss.