Chapter 12: Dial G For...
At a somewhat large bar, sit our out of town friends- the Garou. Thankfully, they're in their Homid (regular human) forms.
Gunnar, of the Get of Fenris, raises a mug full of beer to the air, "To Emi! For a job well done tonight!"
He chugs his brewski down as some of the beer spills onto his beard.
The bar itself is a rather dimly lit place. The walls are decorated with old, faded posters of various rock bands and musicians. There's a jukebox in the corner that plays classic rock songs. The floor is covered in sawdust and cigarette butts.
A very rustic vibe, overall.
Emi of the Glass Walkers Tribe blushes a bit. Since she's only 19, she can't drink alcohol, so she just awkwardly raises her tall glass of sparkling water and weakly smiles. She doesn't really know what to say. She's never been good at accepting compliments.
Anja of the Red Talons Tribe simply looks around the place. She's chosen not to eat or drink anything. She acknowledges the Pack's "victory" tonight, but barely. Her expression is unreadable. She seems to be lost in thought.
Torvald, like Gunnar, is of the Get of Fenris. He is also the leader of this particular Pack of Garou.
He fiddles with his hair, which is tied into a bun, and says to Emi, "Don't be nervous, cub. You did well tonight. You've helped to cleanse this town of the leeches that plague it. I'm proud of you. We all are." He smiles at her.
Emi shyly smiles back, "Thanks, Torvald." She takes a sip of her sparkling water and pulls out her phone.
Gus, who is of the Silver Fangs Tribe, sits in a nearby booth. He's eating a large plate of chicken wings and French fries. He's got a bit of ketchup on his face.
Sheila, his wife, who is of the Black Furies Tribe, reaches over and wipes his mouth with a tissue. She then pats him on the back and smiles.
However, there is a look of concern on her face.
Gus, his mouth full of food, says, "Don't worry about the kids, Sheila. They're fine." He continues to scarf down his meal.
Sheila sighs and looks away. She nods as she sees Gunnar cheering Emi (yet again).
She props her elbow on the table and places her chin on her palm, "I...just don't want anything bad to happen. Especially to Daniel."
Daniel is the adopted son of Gus and Sheila. He is of the Red Talons Tribe. He was born in Lupus (true "wolf") form and had never known any human touch or interaction as an infant. This has made him quite...different from others.
Gus and Sheila found Daniel wounded, likely shot by poachers. He was still in his Lupus form at the time. They nursed him back to health and eventually adopted him. However, due to his past trauma, Daniel has never fully recovered.
He gets nightmares, often. Dreams and traumatic visions that cause him to wake up screaming and sweating.
Meanwhile, Gavin and Erika are Gus's stepchildren.
Sheila's first husband was Gus's brother (and a Silver Fang as well). However, he was brutally killed by Kindred almost 2 decades ago.
Daniel, Gavin, and Erika are out, enjoying the town and just driving around. Gus and Sheila wanted to give them some space. Besides, they're technically adults now. They can take care of themselves.
Also, Daniel feels very overwhelmed in crowded spaces with loud music playing in the background. And the jukebox in the bar was definitely a few decibels above his comfort level. So, he opted to take his jalopy around town instead.
Gavin and Erika were both born in Homid form. Neither have decided what Tribe to join yet. But, they're still young. They've got plenty of time to decide.
As the 6 Garou are (more or less) enjoying themselves after the assault on the garage, the front doors of the bar swing open.
In walk a whole bunch of cops in their uniforms.
For a moment, Emi gasps as the hairs on her hand stand up. She instinctively looks around for an exit. The cops seem to be looking for someone. Or something.
Gunnar, who is sitting next to Emi, notices her distress and calms her down, "Don't worry, cub. They are not here for us."
Emi asks, "But how can you--"
The cops all raucously scream, "HAPPY HOUR! HAPPY HOUR! HAPPY HOUR!" as they all occupy any empty seats in the bar.
They order drinks and start chugging them down. A few of them order burgers and fries, too. One of them orders a large plate of onion rings.
Anja groans and grimaces at the sight of these police officers. She rolls her eyes and mutters under her breath, "Hmph. Useless."
Torvald, however, has a different reaction. He grins widely and says to the others, "In all fairness, if they're this...loud and rowdy, then they're not really paying attention to us, are they?" He laughs as he downs his beer.
Gunnar raises his mug in agreement, "Ha! True!"
Emi absentmindedly says, "Yes," as she scrolls through her phone and taps on a few things.
Anja says, "Still on the phone? Hmm, typical Glass Walker. Always looking for the next 'technological marvel.'" She scoffs.
Emi blandly replies, "Well, I'm just texting my uncle and aunty. I...miss them very much." Her voice cracks a bit.
Anja shakes her head and looks away. She doesn't really know how to respond to that. Nor does she care very much.
Gunnar gives Emi a pat on the back, "I'm sure they're doing fine. They were quite proud of you when you won that robotics contest, were they not?" He smiles.
Emi nods, "Yes. They were." She smiles back at him.
Torvald asks, "So, what's our plan, then?"
Anja narrows her eyes, "You're the Pack leader, Tor. Your 'friend' still hasn't called back yet, has he?" she says it with a hint of sarcasm.
Torvald shrugs, "I've been trying the number for a while, now. He did say he was a very busy man."
Anja says, "I still don't like this, Torvald. Taking orders from strangers and going around like this..." she trails off and looks away.
Torvald retorts, "But everyone in that garage was a tainted leech, Anja. So, at least we know that our contact is...trustworthy." He smiles at her.
Anja snarls, "We STILL can't know that for sure, Torvald."
Gunnar says, "It's just like in Japan. We'd often get our...'orders' from some strange people. But, it worked out in the end, didn't it?" He smiles at Anja.
Anja glares at him, "No, Gunnar. It didn't. No--Not always." She heaves in and out as tears well up in her eyes.
She continues, "Takeda..." her lips shake a bit as the tears begin to flow, "...my fiancé. My love." She angrily clenches her fists and snarls as she sees the cops and others in the bar having a jolly good time.
"He died because of one of those 'orders'. Because of those...leeches." Her tone is full of rage.
She turns to Torvald and says, "And I won't rest until every last one of them are ashes under my feet." She grits her teeth as she says it.
Torvald tries to calm her down, "Anja. Please. Don't--"
Anja slams her fist on the table, causing it to slightly crack, "DON'T YOU DARE TALK TO ME ABOUT TRUSTWORTHINESS, TORVALD! NOT AFTER WHAT HAPPENED!"
Some of the cops (the ones who aren't already blackout drunk, anyway) notice this. They eventually shrug and go back to fiddling around with the jukebox. One cop wants to play jazz. Another cop wants to keep the classic rock going.
Gunnar tries to calm Anja down, "Easy, now, Anja. We don't want to draw...any unwanted attention to ourselves, now, do we? Hmm?"
He proceeds to hand her a tissue to wipe the tears and snot off her face.
Anja angrily grabs the tissue and wipes her face.
Torvald places his hand around Anja's shoulder, "He was a good man, Anja. And we are all truly sorry for your loss--"
Anja groans, "He--he was just an ordinary man. Not even a Garou. And those vile leeches still...still killed him. D--Drained him. Because he was simply in the wrong place at the wrong time." She sniffles and sobs as she says it.
Torvald calmly replies, "Yes. And that's why we're here now, Anja. To make sure that such a tragedy never happens again. To anyone."
Emi looks up from her phone, "Yes, Torvald. But why here? In such...a strange country. And why now? There were and still are many vampires in Japan." She has a quizzical expression on her face.
Torvald stifles a sigh, "Look, Emi. We came to America to meet with some...very important Garou. Eventually. This little town is just a quick stopover." He nervously shuffles in his seat.
Anja furrows her brows but doesn't say anything.
Emi warily smiles, "Uh...Anja, would you like something to eat?"
Anja wearily responds, "What did you have in mind?"
Emi grabs the menu and points to the "Appetizers" section, "Chili Cheese Fries. We can share a plate if you want," her eyes gleam a bit as she says it.
Anja exhales, "Fine."
Torvald warmly smiles as he beckons a waitress over. She has to push her way through the increasingly intoxicated cops to reach them. She doesn't really look too happy about that.
But at this point, her expression is almost blank. It's as if she's seen this happen so many times before.
She plasters on a smile as she stands in front of them, "Finally decided on what you're gonna eat?" she dryly asks them.
Emi nods, "The Chili Cheese Fries, please."
The waitress smiles at Emi, "I like your purple streaks. You get 'em done here or...?"
Emi replies, "Oh, I had it done back in Japan, but...thank you. You look really pretty yourself." Her tone is sincere and almost nervous. It's as if she's afraid of being rude to the waitress.
The waitress chuckles, "Eh, you gotta be if you want a good tip. Anyways, 1 plate of CCF. Will there be anything else?"
She points to Gunnar and asks, "How about you, big guy?"
Gunnar scratches the back of his head, "What are your recommendations? I am a man with a big appetite," he proudly says as he flexes his bulging, hairy arms. Some of the beer stains drip off of his beard as he says this.
The waitress points to something under the "Big Snacks" section of the menu.
"If you want something big, you gotta order a 'Big Snack'. They're our specialty." She smiles as she says this.
Gunnar nods, "Ah! Big, hmmm? OK, 1 Double Chicken Burger, please. And make sure the bun doesn't crumble when you hold it. I do not like when that happens."
The waitress reassures Gunnar, "Don't you worry. All our buns are baked fresh."
"Good," Gunnar takes a swig of his beer and smiles at her. She politely nods and walks away to attend to some other customers.
She's clearly tired of having to deal with drunken, rowdy cops all the time. She has bags under her eyes. It looks as though she's barely getting any sleep.
Emi pulls out another phone from her backpack and begins scrolling through it. Her expression is full of curiosity.
Torvald asks, "What do you have there?" He gestures to the second phone in her hand.
Emi replies, "Oh, it's...nothing. Just some things. Um...private things."
Torvald smiles, "Ah."
Just then, in walks, Sheriff Eunice the Malkavian. Of course, in the midst of the mortal cops, she's just one of them. She's wearing her badge and her uniform.
She has a pistol strapped to her waist. It has a silver-plated hand grip. Her holster is made from pure leather.
It's like a whole blast of cold air just walked in with her. Many eyes are on her as she strides across the room.
Torvald and Anja can feel the hairs on their hands and necks standing up.
Sheriff Eunice goes straight up to the bar and takes a seat at the counter. She pulls out her badge and holds it in front of her, "Eunice. PPD," she calmly says.
The bartender squints his eyes and says, "Ah. That means you're entitled to a 15% discount on any drinks you order." He smiles as he says this.
Eunice maintains her cold, expressionless look. She takes a good look around the place, her eyes darting back and forth.
She cracks her knuckles as she notices one of the cops approaching her.
It's Neil. He takes the empty seat near her and beckons the bartender over, "Whaddya want?" He grins at her.
Eunice leans forward on the counter, clasping her hands together. Her elbows are perched on the counter. She responds, "Nothing."
Neil raises his eyebrows. He's clearly had one too many.
Under normal circumstances, no one approaches Eunice. She's intimidating, brutal, and scary.
One would have to be to qualify for Kindred Sheriff in these parts (and on nights such as this!).
Neil sighs and says to the bartender, "Give her a glass of bourbon."
Eunice makes eye contact with the bartender and simply says, "No."
The bartender gulps.
Eunice sighs, "Leave us." The tone in her voice makes the bartender wince. It's as if a knife is slowly being drawn across his neck.
Neil leans in closer to Eunice, his breath smelling of stale alcohol. She doesn't flinch, even a little. She keeps her hands firmly on the counter, not moving an inch.
He slurs out, "Y'know, Eunice. The...hic...others here might be scared of you...hic."
He almost falls off of his chair but Eunice steadies him.
He holds on to Eunice and continues, "But I'm n--not. We might...hic...have a problem..."
Eunice brashly asks, "The fuck are you talking about? What's your name? Is it Carter or..."
Neil, despite being slightly inebriated, is slightly insulted by Eunice not knowing his name, "It's...hic...Neil."
"Hmph."
Neil wobbles a bit. He grabs a nearby shot glass (filled with cheap vodka, most likely) and sloppily chugs it down. His hand is slightly shaking. Some of it gets on the counter and on his face. He sputters a bit.
Eunice grimaces.
Neil raises the empty shot glass and waves it around, "People...know."
"Know what?"
Neil swallows hard, likely trying to hold back some vomit. He wipes the back of his mouth with his sweaty palm, "That...hic...homeless guy you--"
Eunice grabs his collar and pulls him closer, "What do they know, hmm?! Hmm?!" Her eyes are like daggers as she asks the question. She looks furious.
Neil, on the other hand, looks almost happy as Eunice holds him close. He weakly smiles and chuckles as Eunice has him by the collar.
Eunice is still holding on to him, her fingers clasping around the collar of his shirt, "I said, what do they know?!" Her tone is harsh as she looks around to make sure no one's listening in on their conversation.
Neil softly responds, "They...know. Caught it on...hic...video, we even got oth--others talking," he sloppily licks his lips.
Eunice lowers her head in disgust and groans as he wipes off some of his saliva with his hand.
She clenches her jaw and lets him go as she sees his partner, Jenn, approaching.
Jenn walks over and nudges Neil, "This bozo givin' you any trouble, Eunice?"
Eunice responds, "No."
Jenn chuckles as she helps Neil up, "C'mon, tiger, let's go find ourselves a place to rest at."
As they walk away, Jenn glances at Eunice.
Eunice gets up and heads over to the bathrooms.
It's feeding time.
The bathrooms in this bar are not in great shape. The lighting is dim and there are no windows. The air smells dank and musty, and the floor is covered in a thick layer of grime. The soap dispensers seem to be broken, too.
One could say that it's pretty consistent with the rustic vibe of this place.
Eunice walks into the ladies' room and looks around for someone to feed on.
She spots a woman applying some eyeshadow on her eyelid. She seems to be struggling to keep the makeup steady.
She's wearing a patterned blouse and a pair of faded slacks. Her high heels are on the ground beside her.
Eunice takes a look around to make sure there's no one else.
It would be ironic if the Sheriff breaches the Masquerade.
Eunice proceeds to shut the door behind her and lock it.
The woman doesn't notice any of this, as she's too busy applying her makeup.
Eunice walks up behind the woman and looks in the mirror. Her fangs extend, and her claws grow out.
Eunice places her hand on the woman's mouth and pulls her head to the side, exposing her neck. The woman struggles and squirms as Eunice holds her firmly in place.
Eunice's sharp fangs poke into her neck and the blood starts to flow. Eunice eagerly drinks it up.
The woman eventually stops squirming and lets Eunice have her fill.
After a few seconds, Eunice pulls away. She looks in the mirror, and sees the blood all over her lips and mouth. She licks it off with her tongue.
She emptily stares at her reflection for a few moments before bending down and licking the puncture wound shut.
Sensible.
She proceeds to move the still breathing woman to the nearby bathroom stall. She then shuts the door. She abruptly kicks the high heels to the corner.
Rude.
Eunice adjusts her hair in the mirror and brushes off a few stray strands before walking back out to the main part of the bar.
30 to 45 minutes pass, the music gets louder, the cops get rowdier, while the Garou continue to wait for their meal.
Eventually, the same waitress from earlier dodges and crouches through the crowd of drunk cops to deliver their food. She has a tray with 1 plate of Chili Cheese Fries, 1 Double Chicken Burger, and a few small bowls of ketchup and mustard.
She sighs deeply and apologizes for the delay. She does a sweeping gesture to the cops, "They call it 'Happy Hour', but it ain't happy when WE have to stay late and clean up their frickin' mess." She smiles weakly. Her eyes look tired.
She clasps her hands together and musters up some politeness as she asks, "Will there be anything else? Any...desserts?" She tries to sound cheerful. But it's clear that she's just tired and wants to go home.
Torvald responds, "No, thank you. This seems adequate enough."
The waitress politely nods, smiles, and heads over to another table. She has a lot of work to do tonight. And it's going to be a long night. She doesn't even get paid overtime. Just minimum wage. And tips.
If she's lucky.
Emi picks up a French fry, soggy and covered in melted cheese and chili powder. She nibbles on it and makes a face. It's...alright.
Anja shrugs and grabs 2 fries. She swirls them around in a bowl of ketchup before bringing them to her mouth. She chews them and swallows. She seems to enjoy it. She takes another bite. And another.
Gunnar looks at his burger from all sides before taking a large bite. He remarks, "Hmm, this looks...nice. I hope it tastes better!" He chuckles and continues to eat.
He offers a pickle to Torvald (it came on the side). Torvald shakes his head.
Gunnar says, "Ah, come now, Torvald."
Torvald shrugs, "I'm fine, Gunnar. Really. Besides, it's been a year since I've started on my...diet."
Anja says, a bit of mustard dripping down the side of her mouth, "I would hardly call not-eating-meat a 'diet', Torvald," she snorts and continues to eat her chili cheese fries.
Torvald replies, "Well, I'm trying to cut back on the meat, Anja."
Emi pensively remarks, "I miss Ramen. My uncle used to make it for us all the time." She smiles as she thinks about it.
Just then, officer Jenn approaches the 4. Emi almost jumps out of her seat. Gunnar calms her down.
Officer Jenn cracks a quick smile before introducing herself, "Hi. I'm Officer Jenn with the Plaintry Police Department. I uh...haven't seen you around here before." She seems to be a bit cautious.
Torvald responds, "Oh, we're just passing through. We plan to be in this...beautiful town of yours for the next few days."
Jenn nods, "Ah. Interesting. We don't really get many visitors around here. Especially not from uh--"
Anja goes first, "Poland."
Emi smiles and says, "Japan!"
Gunnar loudly says, "Deutschland!"
Jenn narrows her eyes, "Um...?"
Anja dryly says, "Germany."
"Oh, right. OK." Officer Jenn points to Torvald, "And what about you, sir?"
Torvald replies, "I'm from the Netherlands."
Jenn cocks her head, "The Netherlands, huh? Interesting..." her voice trails off as she looks around the bar.
She notices Neil slumped over a table. He's passed out cold. His face is pressed against the wooden table, as drool drips from his mouth.
Jenn sighs and focuses back on the 4, "Ah, damnit, Neil. Anyways, Netherlands, huh?"
Torvald nods, not entirely sure why this particular cop is so interested in his country of origin.
Jenn continues, "So, what brings you guys here?" She leans forward a bit.
Torvald responds, "We're here on vacation. I believe that this town is part of the American Northeast, yes."
Jenn nods, "Yep."
She continues, "Y'know, we don't get many visitors often. Especially not to sleepy Plaintry. Well, not since the..."
She pauses and scratches the back of her head.
Gunnar prompts her to go on as he continues wolfing down his burger, "Not since the...?"
Jenn looks at him, "The university- The University Of Plaintry closed down. From what others told me, we had a lotta foreign students, especially from the Netherlands." She smiles at the group.
Emi smiles back, "Why did the university close down?"
Jenn shrugs, "Dunno the specifics, but it probably had something to do with a professor and a student. An affair or something like that." She shrugs again.
Torvald asks, "Not to sound disrespectful, but it seems a bit...petty, no? If every university closed down whenever a professor and a student had an affair, then..."
Jenn interjects, "Yeah, yeah, I know. But, it's not like WE can do anything about it now. That was decades ago."
Gunnar says, "Shame," as a bit of food comes flying out of his mouth. He quickly covers his mouth with his hand and apologizes.
Jenn shakes her head and smiles, "Egh. Don't worry about it. Happens all the time."
She looks at the group, "Just...uh keep outta trouble, alright? The last few days have been kinda rough for us." She refuses to say more.
Anja lowers her head and says nothing.
Emi nods.
Gunnar gives a thumbs up.
Torvald says, "Of course, officer. We are not here to make trouble."
Jenn grins, "Good. Glad to hear that."
She looks around the bar and sees that her colleagues are getting rowdier by the minute. They beckon her to join them.
She exhales and says goodbye to the 4 before heading over to her colleagues.
As she leaves, Torvald's phone vibrates. He picks it up and smiles. He says, "Ah, about time! I should probably go to a quieter place to take this."
He excuses himself and answers the call as he shuts his ear to the loud music.
Anja sighs deeply as she watches him leave.
She grits her teeth, "I am still uncertain about this arrangement. Are we sure about this, Gunnar?"
Gunnar firmly replies, "Torvald is our Pack leader, Anja. I trust his judgment. I suggest you do the same." He continues to eat his burger.
Anja huffs and looks away. She doesn't say anything.
Emi looks down at her phone and subtly nods, in agreement with Gunnar. She sheepishly picks up a few pieces of fries and eats them up.
Meanwhile, Eunice approaches Neil who has just woken up from his drunken stupor. He's still a bit dazed and confused.
Eunice says, "Let's go someplace...private."
Neil gasps, "Oh, baby, I knew you'd come around!" He chuckles as he says it.
Eunice rolls her eyes as Neil and her head to a more secluded part of this bar.
Neil bites his lips and rubs his hands together as they sit down at a table.
Eunice calmly says, "You were saying something earlier? Tell me what you know. I already know about the video. But what was this about people talking?"
Neil, still inebriated, says, "Oh, I thought this was a..."
Eunice scoffs, "This isn't a booty call, Neil. Just tell me what you know."
Neil groans, "Fine. Fine. Look, I don't know much, Eunice. But certain people in this town just don't...respect the badge. Y--Y'know what I mean?"
Eunice dryly responds, "I can relate."
Neil belches, "Anyway, point is, we've got people talkin' about what happened that night."
"What people?"
"Doc Sandoval, for one."
"He's dead, Neil. I heard he was stabbed. Heh."
Neil looks to the side, "Yeah, uh..."
Eunice narrows her eyes and looks at Neil, "Who are the others?"
"Some paramedic chick. I think she was one of the first responders at the scene. We gotta deal with 'em, Eunice! Before this gets outta hand! I ain't going down, but if I do, I'm taking you all with me!"
Eunice maintains her icy stare, "Is that a threat, Neil?"
Neil repeatedly shakes his head from side to side, "No, no, Eunice. It's not. I'm just saying...we need to be careful. It just isn't your ass on the line, it's ours too!"
Eunice dismissively waves her hand, "Let 'em talk. I did what I had to do that night. And I'll do it again if I have to."
Neil gulps, "But, Eunice--"
Eunice grabs his collar and pulls him closer, "No buts. We're Plaintry's finest and we either do our goddamn jobs or we don't. So, which is it, Neil?"
Neil shakily responds, "I totally agree! I--I'm just saying, Eunice, maybe we should--"
Eunice snarls at him, "They either learn to respect the badge or suck on the boot."
Neil nervously smiles and chuckles as he hears his 3 favorite words: "Respect the badge."
Eunice asks, "The fuck's wrong with you? Something funny?"
Neil bites his lip, "Damn. You're my kinda girl, Eunice."
Eunice rolls her eyes, "Ugh. You're drunk, Neil. Go home. Get some sleep."
Neil stumbles out of his chair and stands up. Eunice steadies him as he wobbles around.
He leans into her ear and whispers, "Wanna...touch?"
Eunice makes a face and calls Jenn over.
Jenn has an unlit cigarette in her hand. She walks over and asks, "What's up?"
Eunice points to Neil, "Make sure he gets home safe."
Jenn laughs, "Ten-Four."
Jenn holds Neil close and says, "C'mon, tiger. Let's get you home."
Neil mumbles, "I think...I'm in love."
Jenn laughs again, "Uh-huh."
As they walk away, Eunice mutters something under her breath.
She looks around the bar and sees that Jenn and Neil have left. The other cops are either too scared or too drunk to approach her, so she just sits there, staring blankly at the wall.
She doesn't even notice Torvald coming back from his phone call. He sits down next to her and says, "Ah, hello."
She simply nods back.
Torvald continues, "Quite a night, yes?"
Eunice stares straight ahead, "Uh-huh."
He leans in a bit closer, as if trying to get a better look at her face.
Eunice moves back, "The fuck are you doing?"
Torvald holds his hand up, "Ah, nothing. My apologies."
Eunice scoffs, "Hmph."
Torvald presses his lips together in a firm line, "I should probably get going."
"Best decision you'll ever make, mister."
He heads back to his friends, smiles, and sits down.
Anja notices him smiling and asks, "Well, what did you find out? What's next?" Her voice is dripping with a bit of suspicion and paranoia.
Torvald smiles, "This is it. Our contact said the next one will be quite...big." His voice is calm and measured. As usual. But there's a hint of excitement in it.
An excitement that is almost...primal.
Gunnar asks, "'Big' in what way, exactly?"
Torvald replies, "He claims to know who the leader of these Wyrm-tainted beasts is. He even knows where this thing...works."
The other 3 look at Torvald with interest. Emi even sits up a bit more. Her interest is clearly piqued. They are all waiting for him to say more.
Torvald continues, "Like last time, he wants us to meet his assistant at that same old abandoned resort construction site."
Gunnar groans, "Ah, yes, Raphael." He mutters something incomprehensible under his breath and shrugs.
Anja asks, "Torvald, do you sense the presence of the Wyrm in this place? This...bar."
Torvald sharply exhales, "Yes, Anja. Just a bit, but it's definitely here. Most likely in one of these police officers."
He looks around the room, searching for anyone or anything out of the ordinary. But nothing stands out. And yet, something seems to be amiss. As if...this is just a false sense of security. That's it, nothing more, and nothing less.
Gunnar sniffs the air and closes his eyes, "Yes, you are correct, Anja. Even now, I can sense the presence of the Wyrm. It's faint, but it's here."
Emi, a bit concerned, asks, "When we begin our attack, how can we be certain that no innocents are harmed? From what I've been told, vampires do like to hide amongst the living."
Anja dismissively says, "Don't spend too much worrying about them. Even THEY are tainted by the Wyrm."
Emi seems slightly taken aback by Anja's remark.
Torvald interjects, "Either way, Emi has a point. It's best to not do things rashly." His tone is cautious but still upbeat.
Gunnar snorts, "Hmm, yes!"
Anja lowers her head, "You are the leader of the Pack, Torvald and I will follow you. I will follow your lead and do what you think is right." Her voice is somewhat uncertain and insincere.
Emi eagerly says, "I am with you till the end, Torvald! The Wyrm must be destroyed, and its corruption purged." She smiles from ear to ear as she says this.
Torvald chuckles and places his hand on Emi's shoulder, "Your enthusiasm is certainly something, Emi. It's very admirable. It will surely help us in this sacred task," he gives her an affectionate smile as he says this.
Gunnar remarks, "Yes! The cub is ready for more! The power of Gaia flows through her!" He ruffles Emi's hair and gives her a firm pat on the back.
Torvald grins, "Yes. Let us hope Gaia is good to all of us when the time comes. Now, come, let us go." He stands up and stretches.
The other 3 get up from their seats as well. They pick up their stuff and make their way to the door.
Torvald pulls some money from his wallet and leaves it in the cheque book. Additionally, he leaves a very generous tip of $10.
They head to the entrance of the bar. Eunice sees them leaving and cocks an eyebrow. Her dead eyes follow the 4 as they talk amongst themselves.
Anja remarks, "Hmm. The taint of the Wyrm is definitely strong in this place. The police...they're not clean either, are they, Torvald?" Her voice is heavy with suspicion.
Torvald nods, "Indeed, that might very well be the case." He looks over at Eunice for a few seconds before opening the door. He continues, "Let's just leave this place."
The moon is out, but it's hidden behind a thick layer of fog.
Gus and Sheila join the 4. Gus says, "Damn. What a night. What. A. Night." He rubs his belly and yawns.
Sheila asks the others, "Did you feel it, too? The Wyrm. Its taint...the corruption. It's almost suffocating!" Her face scrunches up as she says this. She looks very disturbed.
Gunnar snorts, "Indeed!"
Anja silently nods.
Torvald tells Gus and Sheila, "I've spoken to our contact. We're to meet at the same place like last time. Tomorrow at 7 PM." His voice is serious but also cautious. He wants to ensure that no one in his Pack gets hurt or harmed in any way.
Especially Emi, Daniel, Gavin, and Erika.
Gus nods, "Very well. But, for what it's worth, your contact seems legit enough. Everyone in that garage was one of 'em. Fuckin' bloodsuckers." He clenches his fists. Sheila places a hand on his shoulder.
Sheila tells Torvald, "We trust your judgment, Torvald. It's clear that your contact knows more than us."
Anja mutters, "Why don't we ever get to meet whoever this is?"
Torvald responds, "I asked him the same thing and he claimed to be a very busy man with an...irregular schedule. He told me he'd only be available to assist us as long as we did everything HIS way."
Emi nods, "Well, that seems fair. We have to remember that we are in a strange...country."
Sheila and Gus share a quick look between them.
"Mm-hmmmm," Gunnar says, as he strokes his beard. He looks off in the distance for a bit. As if lost in thought.
Fast forward a few hours later...
The sun will soon be up, which means it's bedtime for the Kindred of Plaintry.
The past few nights have been intriguing, to say the least!
Maya dresses down to her bra and panties and plops onto the bed. She sighs deeply as she gets comfortable.
She's got the bed all to herself. She's already starting to miss Lucile.
Her thoughts turn to the new friend she's made: Dylan.
Maya smiles.
Maya pulls the sheet over as a few tears of blood escape from her eyes.
Eventually, she falls into a deep, likely dreamless day-sleep.
Meanwhile, Anja sits up on her bed, her eyes darting around the room. Her thoughts race. She can't stop thinking about the attack on the garage earlier tonight.
A part of her feels a twinge of guilt and regret. She shakes her head and tries to calm down.
Gunnar lays in his bed, snoring loudly, as usual.
Light from a phone shines onto Emi's face.
Anja says, "Keep doing that and you'll end up in glasses like me. What are you even doing?"
Emi's voice is hushed as she says, "Trying to find out more about that professor and student at that university that police lady told us about."
Anja groans, "My god. Of all the things to be looking at...this is what you do in bed?"
"Ssh! It's not my fault that I have trouble sleeping, OK?! I want to know more!" Her voice is filled with curiosity.
Anja dryly asks, "Hmph, I'm having trouble sleeping, too. So, did you find anything...salacious?" She lets out a slight chuckle.
Emi shakes her head, "No, nothing like that, Anja. Just articles about some man named William Mc-Ma-hon." She has slight trouble pronouncing "McMahon".
Anja sighs, "And what about this man?"
"It says here that he had the proceedings initiated against the professor." She lowers her phone as she reads through the article.
Anja asks, "Did you find anything else?" Her tone is mildly curious, but her interest in this is just superficial at best.
"Apparently, he and this professor, who is not named for some reason, had a long history of animosity. They hated each other and disagreed on many things."
Anja rolls her eyes, "It happens, Emi. Regular humans are like that. Us Garou, not so much. We are above petty arguments and petty emotions. We are...better than them. The sooner you learn that, the better."
"But, Anja, aren't we also...regular humans? We bleed, we breathe, we feel, we--"
Anja shakes her head and responds, "Heh. Don't let a Red Talon hear you say that."
"But--"
Anja sighs deeply and lies on her bed, facing away from Emi.
She simply says, "Go to sleep, Emi. There's nothing more to speak about."
"But, Anja, the article says that the student in question might've been pregnant!" Her voice is still hushed.
"..."
"I...I don't know why, but this is all very interesting to me." She says that as she scrolls through the article.
Anja still isn't feeling too sleepy. She says, "Hmph. Very well, go on. But keep it down."
Emi continues, "It says here that the student missed classes and did not return for many months."
"What makes her so special, anyway?"
"Another article I read claimed that she wasn't from America, that she was one of the many...foreign students who had attended the university. Many were from the Netherlands at the time!"
Anja replies, "If she had any sense...and dignity, she would have terminated the pregnancy."
"It doesn't say anything like that in the article."
Emi pauses for a few moments, erratically scrolling through her phone. She finally finds something, "Oh, wait. THIS article is claiming that the student was not a foreign national."
Anja scoffs, "Hmph. Typical. Can't even get their nonsense correct. Kurwa (PL: Fuck)."
Emi innocently asks, "What does that word mean, Anja?"
Anja sleepily mutters, "Heh, heh. Maybe I should teach you some Polish..." Her eyes are half-closed. She yawns. The bed sheet is pulled over her.
Emi softly replies, "That would be...nice. Anyways, this article claims that the woman kept the baby."
"Hmph. How sad. So, where is...it now?"
"Uh...it says here that they are probably still out there. Probably." Emi's voice is laced with a bit of sadness. And confusion.
Anja asks, "And when was all...this?"
"About 30 or so years ago. That would mean that baby is...!"
Anja mumbles, "Hmph. Probably." She's already halfway asleep.
Emi asks, "Do you think they know who they are, Anja?"
Anja indifferently responds, "For their sake, I hope not. The...shame itself would be too much to bear. If they're lucky, they'd never know. Maybe, one day, they might find out. But until then..." her voice trails off.
Emi strokes her chin, "What if they are still living in this town?"
Anja sighs, "Yes, what a brilliant theory, Emi. Tomorrow, both of us should go around town and ask every 30+ year old about their parentage. I'm sure they would LOVE to tell 2 complete strangers about it!" Her voice drips with sarcasm.
Emi quietly says, "You are...not taking me seriously."
Anja retorts, "That is because there's nothing TO take seriously." She yawns and wiggles on her bed, trying to find a more comfortable position.
She mutters, "Goodnight, Glass Walker." She's clearly had enough of this conversation. Or, rather, non-conversation.
Emi shakes her head and has a bit of a disappointed look on her face. She simply says, "Goodnight, Anja."
She turns her attention back to her phone. She goes back to looking up stuff about Plaintry. About the University. About its students and faculty.
It's mostly dead links, contradictory articles, and a bunch of he said, she said type of stuff.
Nothing concrete. Nothing definitive.
At least, not yet.
Emi's eyelids become heavy. She puts her phone away, fluffs her pillows, and eventually, falls asleep. The soft glow from the window provides the room with enough light. It's not too bright, though.
Just enough for everyone to comfortably sleep in. For the next few hours, at least.
A few hours pass and Anja stirs. Her eyes slowly open. She looks around the room. She sees Emi, sleeping on the bed, her chest rising and falling with every breath.
The 4 walls of the room come down like cardboard, and she sees herself standing in a strange (yet familiar) place.
This place is shrouded in a layer of purple mist. It's like a dream that refuses to let go. The wind howls as it whips around the dead trees with their black leaves falling.
Anja blinks and she now finds herself standing in front of a tree with its colorful leaves swaying back and forth. She can hear a familiar voice in the distance. It's coming from behind the tree.
She slowly walks around the tree and sees...him.
Takeda. Her fiancé. Now deceased.
He looks to be in his late 20s. His long black hair is tied into a ponytail. He's wearing a patterned montsuki (male kimono). His face is narrow and his look is gentle.
Anja gasps, "Takeda!"
She runs over and tries to hug him, but she just goes through him.
Takeda clasps his hands in front of him, "Anja...it's been so long." He looks at her with a sad smile on his face.
He looks around and asks, "What is this place, my love?"
Anja doesn't know how to answer. Of course, she knows it's The Umbra- in short, a realm that exists alongside and yet separate from the material world.
There's much MORE to it than that, of course, but this is the least complicated explanation!
Anja gently laughs, "Was it not the place you proposed to me? Under this...tree?"
Takeda smiles, "I remember that afternoon." He looks up at the hazy black sky and continues, "It was a beautiful afternoon. The sun was just setting. The sky was streaked with orange and pink. I had just got off work early."
Anja smiles, "Yes, you told me to meet you here..." her voice trails off.
She looks at Takeda. She can't help but notice that he's phasing in and out, like a flickering hologram.
Anja asks, "Takeda, what's happening?" She's desperate for answers.
Takeda simply replies, "I would ask you the same, my love. I felt pulled here, to this place, by...you."
Anja's eyes moisten a bit, "I suppose I just missed you, Takeda. It has not been easy without you."
Takeda nods, "I know. I'm sorry. But I'm here now, aren't I?" He gives her another sad smile.
Anja gulps and nods back, "Yes, you are."
Takeda studies Anja's face for a while, "I feel that there is something...unsaid between us, Anja. That is perhaps why I feel so much anguish when I see you."
Anja vigorously shakes her head, "No, Takeda! P--Please do not say that," she says this as she looks away from him.
He walks closer to her. He tries to place his hand on her shoulder, but it just phases through her.
He sighs and gently says, "You must tell me what's bothering you. There's something that you need to get off your chest."
Anja looks down at the ground, "No."
"Anja, come now. How can either of us move on if you keep...hiding whatever it is you are hiding from me?"
Anja looks up, her eyes watery, "You died because of me, Takeda."
Takeda cracks a quick smile, "Do not blame yourself for that, Anja. It all happened so...quickly. I felt a prick in my neck, and then the blood slowly escaping my body as I gradually lost consciousness."
Anja sniffles, "It was my fault, Takeda. If I had been more careful, if I had--"
"No, my love. That was not your fault. I should have seen the signs, Anja. The erratic behaviors, the pale skin, and so on."
Anja sighs, "And yet, you didn't. And I failed you."
Takeda shakes his head, "No, Anja. You didn't fail me. We were both victims of highly manipulative creatures."
Anja looks up at him, "So, you don't blame me?"
Takeda shakes his head, "I could never blame you for that, my love."
He pauses and continues, "And yet I feel that you are keeping something from me." He gives her a sympathetic look.
Anja blurts out, "I'm a Garou! A werewolf!"
Takeda puts his hands behind his back and looks at the infinite emptiness around him.
He coyly smiles, "I had a feeling that there was something different about you, Anja."
Anja stammers, "I--I wanted to tell you. So many times, but our...kind are bound by certain rules. And--And--"
"And you were afraid. Afraid of how I would react?"
"Yes," she softly says, as tears stream down her face.
She wipes them away with the back of her hand.
Takeda nods, "I understand, Anja. It must have been difficult for you. And yet, I feel there is something else you are hiding from me."
Anja shakes her head, "No, that's all of it. That's everything."
Takeda raises an eyebrow as he rapidly phases in and out, "Anja...there's no need to hide from me. Please. Whatever it is, I will not hold any animosity towards you. I promise."
Anja sniffles and wipes her nose.
She takes a deep breath and says, "I--I..."
"Yes?"
Anja swallows hard, "I terminated the pregnancy. I--"
Takeda lowers his head, "Oh, Anja--"
"I was so scared, Takeda. So scared. I could not bring a child into a world so cruel and uncaring. So, I made a choice."
She starts sobbing, her face in her hands.
Takeda looks at her with a mixture of sadness and understanding.
He says, "My love, it is all right. You did what you had to do."
In between sobs, Anja says, "Without you, how could...I? I--"
"No, my love. Do not say that. You are strong and capable."
He kneels in front of her, "I feel my time in this...strange place running out. I know not when we shall see each other again."
She also kneels down and looks into his fading eyes, "No, Takeda! Please! Stay! Just--just a little longer."
He warmly smiles as his skin gets paler, "Anja, I will always be with you."
He points to her heart, "Look for me amongst the trees of the forest. In the songs of the birds. In the stars in the sky. I will always be there, my love."
Anja sobs, "Please, Takeda. Please--"
He gives her a look that says, "Goodbye."
His skin turns deathly pale. He gasps in shock as blood pours out from puncture wounds on the side of his neck, where he was bitten. He collapses to the ground, his eyes closed.
Slowly, he fades away as his particles are gently scattered across The Umbra.
Anja stretches out her hand and screams, "Nooooo! Not again! Nooooooo!" She frantically looks around and stretches out her hands to try and grab onto the fleeting particles.
But it's too late.
He's gone. Again.
Anja hears a voice echoing throughout The Umbra. It is neither male nor female. It simply says, "The Glass Walker looks up to you. Treat her well."
Anja is left alone, kneeling on the ground. She looks around. The mist is gone. The trees are gone, so are their leaves. The black sky is gone.
Everything is slowly fading into dust as a storm of flies and other chittering insects from the east approaches.
The storm is coming. It's getting closer. Closer. Closer. Closer. Closer. Closer. Closer.
Eventually, all is consumed by the living storm.
Anja gasps and wheezes as she springs up from her bed. She's covered in sweat. Her heart is racing. Her breathing is rapid. She looks around and sees that she's still in her room.
The sun is shining brightly through the window.
It's likely afternoon already. Even though she spent mere minutes in The Umbra, hours have passed in the material world. Such is the flexible nature of time in the other realms!
Anja takes a few deep breaths and lies back down on her bed. She closes her eyes and tries to breathe in and out. In and out, just like those videos she has saved on her phone. Those little breathing exercises. They help calm her down.
Most of the time, anyway.
She looks over at Emi, who is still sleeping peacefully. She sighs and looks up at the ceiling.
Anja softly says to herself, "Takeda. My love." She places a hand on her chest and takes another deep breath. She closes her eyes and tries to fall back asleep.
Meanwhile, in a diner not too far from the BNB...
Officer Jenn sits across Officer Neil.
Neil is wearing sunglasses and slowly drinking some green gloop. His head is pounding. He's got a major hangover. He groans and burps. He rubs his forehead and squints. The light is hurting his eyes.
He angrily mutters, "Ugh, what a damn night."
Jenn chuckles, "Yeah. So, you wanna talk about it?"
Neil groans and goes back to sipping his green gloop. He doesn't respond. He just sits there, staring at the wall. His thoughts are a jumbled mess. He can't even remember what happened last night.
Jenn smirks, "Saw you and Eunice getting all...handsy." She wiggles her eyebrows as she says this.
Neil lowers his sunglasses and looks at Jenn with bloodshot eyes, "Ugh, really, huh? I dunno. It's all a big blur."
"Eh, relax, it'll come back to ya. Eventually."
Neil belches and says, "Gah, I don't even remember how I got home."
Jenn shrugs, "Don't worry about it. You were pretty wasted, so I drove you home. You're welcome."
Neil rubs his temples and sighs, "Thanks, Jenn."
"Anytime." She takes a sip of her coffee.
Neil asks, "So, what did you do after that?"
"I went back to my place and called it a night. Why?"
Neil shrugs, "Nah, just wondering."
Jenn leans in closer and lowers her voice, "What about the other...thing. Y'know. You're sure you didn't run your mouth off to anyone? Even Eunice?"
Neil thinks for a moment and then shakes his head, "Nah, I'm good. I think. I know how to hold my liquor, Jenn."
His appearance and overall demeanor would say otherwise.
Jenn scoffs, "Yeah, OK. Well, just be careful, alright? Don't want any loose lips sinking any ships, y'know?"
Neil nods, "You're in this with me, Jenn. We're all in it now."
Jenn narrows her eyes and sighs, "Hmph. I guess that's one way of putting it. There might be another one, Neil."
Neil adjusts his sunglasses and shifts in his seat, "Another one? What--what do you mean?"
"That paramedic. The one who showed us some attitude that day."
Neil grunts and clenches his fists, "You want me to take care of her, too? Say the word, Jenn, and I'll make sure she doesn't make it home for dinner."
Jenn shakes her head, "No, no. Not yet. I think we should wait a bit. See what happens. Let's just...play it cool for now, OK? No more rash moves."
Neil sneers, "It's our asses on the line here, Jenn."
Jenn retorts, "I KNOW that, dumbass. But we gotta be smart about this."
Neil grumbles, "Yeah, yeah. But, I did what I had to do to Doctor Sandoval. He was a real piece of work."
Jenn sharply exhales, "You did what you had to do. I just wish you didn't drag me into it."
Neil scoffs, "You're the fucking one who insisted that we be transparent with each other. And now, look where it's got us!"
Jenn rolls her eyes, "I'm starting to regret that decision."
Neil blandly says, "Too late. What's done is done. We just gotta let it play out. Whatever happens, happens."
Jenn leans back in her seat and takes another sip of coffee, "Mm-hmm. Whatever."
Neil asks, "So, what else is new in this town?"
Jenn pours a packet of sugar into her coffee, "Apart from all the feds sniffing around cuz of the McMahon mansion fire, not much."
Neil lowers his head, "I wanna be a part of that investigation, Jenn. Something about the whole thing just doesn't seem right."
Jenn dismissively waves her hand, "It was a tragic accident. No foul play suspected so far. The fire department said it was probably due to faulty wiring or something like that."
Neil leans forward, "Bullshit. It's ALL BULLSHIT, Jenn. I know it. You know it, too!"
"And what's your source, hmmm?"
"My gut, Jenn. My gut. And my gut is telling me that something stinks about that whole thing."
Jenn laughs, "You should really get those stomach ulcers checked out, Neil. Seriously."
Neil grumbles, "Fuck you, Jenn."
Jenn smirks, "Hey, I'm just saying. Maybe it's all in your head. Either way, you gotta give the FBI some space to do their job."
Neil sarcastically says, "Yeah, right. Like they're gonna tell us lowly cops anything."
Jenn snorts, "They're not so bad, actually. That Higgins guy actually seems pretty chill."
Neil sighs, "Yeah, yeah. Whatever."
Jenn adds, "And there was this other FBI guy, too."
Neil cocks an eyebrow, "Oh? Another one? Who?"
Jenn shrugs, "Dunno. Name sounded kinda funny. Born? Nah..." Her voice trails off as she tries to remember.
Neil chuckles, "Born? What the fuck kind of name is that?"
Jenn snaps her fingers, "Björn! That's it. Special Agent Björn Henrickson!"
Neil snorts, "Sounds like a fuckin' dork. What's his deal?"
Jenn replies, "Dunno. He was asking some pretty...weird questions, actually."
Neil grimaces as he drinks his green gloop, "Huh. Interesting. Weird, how?"
Jenn deeply sighs, "Heh. Where do I even begin..."
The rest of the cops' afternoon is spent discussing various things, including the McMahon mansion fire and other matters.
Fast forward a few hours...
The sun is beginning to set. The sky is streaked with red and orange. It's going to be dark soon. Which means that it's time for the Kindred of Plaintry to rise from their day-long slumber.
Sunset is a bit earlier than usual today.
Arman wakes up to the sound of Rolf knocking on his door. He yawns and stretches. His eyes are still half-closed. He groggily gets up and opens the door.
Rolf bows his head, "Master. It is already 6:25 PM."
Arman slowly nods, "Ah, yes. Tonight is going to be quite the lovely night. I've got my date with Ginny at 8 PM."
Rolf clears his throat, "Yes, Master. And what about the...other matter?"
Arman cracks a smile, "Ah, that. It'll be just like last time, Rolf. I trust you will be able to handle it?"
Rolf nods, "Ja. Rolf is reliable and will not fail you."
Arman chuckles, "Excellent. Now, if you'll excuse me, I must get ready for tonight. I want to look quite...nice and presentable for Ginny."
Rolf bows his head, "Of course, master. Rolf will see to it that everything is prepared for tonight."
Arman smiles, "Yes. Make sure the ladies don't give any trouble tonight. And thank you, Rolf. You truly are the best a man like me could ever ask for."
Rolf weakly smiles, "Danke, mein meister (DE: Thank you, my master). Rolf appreciates your kind words."
Arman turns around and walks back into his room. He closes the door and prepares to get cleaned up and dressed for tonight's date.
He hopes it goes well. Truth be told, he has come to admire his co-conspirator in a way that goes beyond mere professional respect.
Could it perhaps be love?
Meanwhile, Ginny is already awake. She's wearing an embellished black sequin dress with a round neckline. The sleeves are long and the length is above the knees.
Ginny grabs a razor blade from her bathroom and quickly runs it over her legs, taking multiple bits of leg hair off. She carefully shaves them. The hair slowly falls onto the ground.
After a few minutes of doing the same to her arms, Ginny hears a knock at her door. She turns her head towards it.
She looks through the peephole before opening the door. She sees Beth and Bella- the twins who took part in the attack on the McMahon mansion- standing there.
She chuckles to herself and opens the door, "Took you 2 long enough."
Beth snaps back, "I just woke up, Ginny. Sheesh."
Bella shakes her head and holds up a makeup kit, "Got what you asked for. We'll have you looking like the belle of the ball in no time, Ginny." She grins.
Ginny looks at her with suspicion. She grabs the makeup kit and inspects it, "Heh. Yeah, sure, doll me up."
Ginny proceeds to sit down on a nearby chair.
Bella is quite well dressed. She's wearing a pristine white shirt and a striped pencil skirt. Her short, cropped blonde hair looks like it's been straightened recently. Her skin remains pale. Her pink lipstick looks perfect.
Beth, on the other hand, wears torn black jeans and a t-shirt with a few expletives written on it. She yawns. Her hair looks unkempt and slightly frizzy.
Bella commands her twin sister, "Grab a chair and help me, will you?" She gestures to her sister to get it done.
Beth sighs and does as she's told. She grabs a chair and sits to Ginny's left. Bella sits to Ginny's right and readies a few makeup brushes and various tubes of color. She picks up some concealer first.
She dabs it on the corners of Ginny's eyes. She lightly strokes it onto Ginny's cheeks as well.
Gotta get rid of that deathly paleness characteristic of all Kindred! Gotta get her to look more...alive!
Beth absentmindedly rifles through the makeup kit, "What's the occasion?" Her tone is somewhat inquisitive, yet still quite nonchalant. She seems bored, more than anything.
Ginny smirks, "A date with the Ventrue. Arman."
Bella scoffs, "That same guy who had...doubts about what we did to the McMahons. Bah. Is that the best you can do, Ginny? Heh. What a disappointment." She says that while putting blush on Ginny's face.
Beth gives her sister a look before asking, "Do you...like him?"
Ginny shrugs, "I honestly dunno, Beth. He sounds like a man with a plan, you know? He seems OK. Plus, it beats spending the night alone, y'know. Ugh." Her face scrunches up a bit.
Bella exhales, "OK, Ginny. That sounds nice and all. But, I'm gonna need you to pick an eye shadow palette and stick to it. There's a few I like over here." She gestures towards the palette in question.
It contains shades ranging from pink to red to orange to yellow. Ginny's attention is, however, drawn to the smokier gray and black eyeshadows.
Beth smiles, "Ah, keeping it simple, huh?" She giggles to herself.
Bella grabs some eye shadow and applies it to Ginny's eyes, "This one's gonna look real good on you." Her tone is casual yet reassuring.
Beth grabs the eyeliner and leans in closer, "Can't wait to see his reaction when he sees you tonight." Her tone is rather flirtatious.
Bella says, "His jaw better hang open or else I'll pull it open." She chuckles as she watches Beth apply the eyeliner.
Beth's hand is as steady as can be. She says, "Just...a little more. And done!" She pulls her hand back and leans back into her seat, a satisfied grin on her face.
Bella holds out a bunch of lipsticks for Ginny to choose from, "Whatcha gonna wear? Pick wisely." Her tone is a little smug.
Ginny looks over her options. There's red, purple, and pink to choose from. Ginny eventually picks the red. It's red matte lipstick. It has a subtle, yet noticeable scent.
Cherry, perhaps?
Bella applies the lipstick and Ginny presses her lips together a few times to help spread the lipstick evenly. Bella leans back and smiles.
Beth nods in approval as well.
Ginny's eyes dart between the 2, "So, how'd I look, huh? Like a fuckin' clown or something? C'mon, spit it out, I don't have all night! The man is expecting me at 8 PM." She sounds a bit irritated.
Bella places her hands on Ginny's shoulders and says, "You look great, Ginny."
Beth shrugs, "Would've gone for the black lipstick, but eh, you look good for a date. I guess."
Bella frowns at her twin sister and then says, "OK, Ginny, we're all done here."
She helps Ginny out of the chair and straightens out Ginny's dress. She adds, "What now?"
Ginny replies, "I gotta go and speak to Father Jones. He's been avoiding me for the past few nights. Ugh. So damn frustrating! Why can't Simon just go and talk some sense into him?!" She furiously stomps her foot on the ground.
Bella and Beth exchange glances before turning to look at Ginny again.
Ginny adds, "We'll stop by the church on the way. The sooner I'm done with this, the sooner we can focus on the bigger picture, y'know." Her tone is still a bit angry.
Beth asks, "What about...meals? Shouldn't we feed before--"
Ginny holds her hand up and smiles, "Nah. Arman's got all of that covered, but you 2 better grab a bite." She waves her hand around in the air as she says that.
Beth's expression turns serious as she asks, "Oh. And you trust this Ventrue to cover your meal for tonight??" Her voice sounds skeptical.
Ginny rolls her eyes, "Heh, relax. Besides, his Blood Dolls taste...pretty nice." Her voice is low and seductive.
Bella sighs, "He's got some Blood Dolls, huh? Figures. Rich boy Ventrue, he's got it made in the shade. No wonder he didn't wanna get his hands dirty that night." She scoffs and shakes her head.
Beth crosses her arms and looks around Ginny's Haven, "Do you...like this place?" Her tone is non-judgmental, but still curious.
Ginny frowns, "Huh? What's not to like about this place? I got it for free--"
Bella interjects, "Yeah after you and Simon drained the owners and left their corpses out on the porch." She grins as she says that.
Bella shrugs and then adds, "We going or what?"
Beth scratches her neck and groans loudly, "Ugh, yeah, I'm starving."
Ginny cracks a smile, "We'll grab someone along the way."
Ginny puts on her shoes. Bella suggests the black high heels, but Beth suggests the silver pumps instead. Beth argues that the black high heels make the dress look "too formal." Ginny agrees and settles for the silver pumps.
Eventually, the trio reach the church where Father Jones is a priest at. It's the only Catholic church in the town of Plaintry. It's located on the western side of town, near a cemetery.
It's also been a pretty useful hub to transport goods and documents (of the sensitive variety) from Domain to Domain, with Father Jones acting as a courier of sorts.
In this way, it has acted as an effective conduit of information exclusively for Clan Lasombra use.
But lately, Father Jones has been getting what one might call "cold feet" when it comes to this...arrangement. He's probably having second thoughts, too.
And recent events in the town have seen a large influx of FBI agents (likely aligned in some way or the other to the Second Inquisition) pouring into the church, asking questions and such.
Anyway, Beth and Bella wipe a bit of blood from the corners of their lips with their fingers. Ginny heads to the church. She stands in front of it and takes a long, hard look at it.
The church is a beautiful structure made of dark gray stones. It has a sloped roof and a bell tower with a cross at the top. The stained-glass windows are beautifully crafted and depict various religious figures.
There is a signboard at the entrance that reads "Saint Peter's Church. Open To Any And All Seeking God's Light."
The parking lot is empty except for one dingy-looking sedan parked nearby. The church van is at the garage, undergoing much-needed repairs.
Ginny sharply exhales, mutters something indeterminable, and pushes the large wooden doors open.
Beth and Bella wait outside. Ginny looks back at them and sternly says, "Make sure no one disturbs us, understood?"
The twins nod and reply, "Of course." Ginny turns around and steps into the church. The doors slowly close behind her with a loud creaking noise. She looks around at the interior of the church.
The interior of the church is well lit by candles. There are rows of pews on either side of the aisle. At the end of the aisle is the altar. It has a huge cross hanging above it.
Father Jones is kneeling in front of the altar, hands pressed together in prayer. He mutters something before standing up and turning around to see who's entered. His expression changes from one of peace to one of shock.
Father Jones is in his 60s. Thin and of medium height. Balding with a bit of white hair around the sides of his head. He wears a simple black cassock and a white collar. He looks at Ginny with fear in his eyes.
He takes off his rimless glasses and stammers, "Oh, G--Ginny. It's you."
Ginny smirks and stretches out her hands to either side of her, "The one and only. Don't act so surprised, Father." Her tone is rather sarcastic.
Father Jones gulps and takes a step back, "Look, Ginny. I know what this is about, but things have changed." His voice is shaky.
Ginny's face contorts into a scowl, "Yeah, yeah, I know. Strange people coming in and asking all sortsa questions. FBI crawling all over the place. Boo-hoo."
Father Jones sighs and nods, "Yes. It's just too dangerous for me right now. I need time to think and--" He tries to walk past her, but she grabs hold of his arm.
He looks at her and says, "I just want to take a seat, Virginia. Please. I'm not going to try and run. I promise." He gently pulls his arm back.
Ginny lets go. She sighs and gestures towards one of the pews. He walks towards it and sits down.
She joins him and asks, "So, what's your plan, Father?"
Father Jones leans back into the pews and shakes his head, "I don't know. It would seem that your people down south are already planning to move their operations elsewhere." His voice sounds defeated.
Ginny scoffs, "Well, that's a damn shame, isn't it? And here I thought we had a deal." She narrows her eyes at him.
Father Jones looks back at her and says, "You can't expect me to continue this when the Federal Bureau of Investigation is swarming all over this town. What happened, anyway? The news says it was an...accident?"
Ginny knows what exactly happened to the McMahons (she took part in it!). However, she shrugs and says, "Dunno."
Father Jones scratches his palm, "The McMahons were certainly...unpleasant individuals. But they didn't deserve to die. Not like that." His voice trails off as he looks at the ground.
Ginny snorts, "Yeah, yeah, whatever. I'm not here about them, Father Jones."
"Yes, yes, I know that. But your packages have been getting quite large and heavy lately. Whatever it is you're shipping, it's--" He stops himself and shakes his head.
Ginny says, "It's part of our...long-standing agreement, Father Jones."
He reminds her, "An agreement made before either of us were even born, Miss Bane. That's a long time." He rubs his forehead with his fingers.
Ginny sneers, "You were fine with it before. Why the sudden change now?"
Father Jones sighs, "It's not just me. Other parishes keep asking me about the contents of your packages and I can't keep waving them off. They're getting suspicious." His tone is firm and resolute.
Ginny raises an eyebrow, "And?" She knows that Father Jones is just a pawn in this game.
"AND, I also have a responsibility to my flock." He pauses and then adds, "I--I really don't know what else to say, Virginia."
Ginny shakes her head from side to side and ominously says, "Simon's not gonna like this one bit. You know that, right?" She teasingly clicks her tongue as she says that.
Father Jones gulps and looks down at his hands, "T--Then I'll speak to him myself. He has to understand that this is not as feasible as it once was." His voice is still shaky.
Ginny smirks, "Good luck with that. Heh. Simon's an Elder and 'no' isn't a word he's used to hearing." She playfully taps him on the arm.
Father Jones frowns, "I hope he will see the wisdom in adjusting our...arrangement. Otherwise, it may come crashing down."
Ginny chuckles, "You don't wanna tick him off, Father."
Father Jones presses his lips into a tight line and says nothing.
He then looks at her and asks, "You look quite...nice. Going somewhere special?"
Ginny smiles, "Yeah. A date."
"Ah. I assume he's...like you?"
Ginny hesitates for a moment before replying, "Yeah. He's like me. A vampire."
Father Jones nods, "Well, that sounds...lovely, Virginia."
Ginny chimes in, "Y'know, for what it's worth, I kinda enjoyed our discussions, Father Jones." She looks him straight in the eye as she says that.
Father Jones blinks a few times, "Yes, me too. They were quite...riveting. And you always had such interesting questions and thoughts."
Ginny wistfully says, "Heh. We should probably continue them at some point, y'know."
Father Jones nods, "Perhaps we could. Another evening, maybe?"
Ginny sighs, "Anyway, what do I tell Simon about our little arrangement here?"
Father Jones adjusts his collar and shuffles in his seat a bit, "Tell him that I'll be able to move small, and I mean, VERY SMALL packages for now." His voice is somewhat hopeful, yet apprehensive.
Ginny chuckles, "Heh, not what I was hoping to hear tonight but alright, I'll pass on the message."
Father Jones adds, "And tell him that I'm willing to work out new arrangements as well. If he's open to it, of course."
Ginny raises an eyebrow, "Oh? Such as?"
Father Jones vaguely responds, "Let me think on that." He looks away from her and towards the altar.
Ginny looks up at the ceiling, "Well, I guess that's good enough for me. Simon won't be happy about this, but eh, what else is new?" She playfully rolls her eyes.
Father Jones looks at her and asks, "I haven't seen Jacob lately. Is he doing OK? During his last confession, he seemed very disturbed. He stormed out afterwards..."
Ginny snorts, "Huh? Him? Nah, he's doin' all right." She dismissively waves her hand and chuckles.
Father Jones adds, "I don't know if it's something I said or did, but tell him that I'm here for him. Any time of the night. He doesn't have to come to the church if he doesn't want to."
Ginny smirks, "Sure, sure, I'll pass on the message, Father J." She winks at him as she stands up.
Father Jones stands up and extends his hand to her, "Thank you, Virginia. I hope you enjoy your evening with your...date." He smiles warmly at her.
She shakes his hand and says, "Heh. I'll be fine. I'm sure Arman knows how to treat a lady."
Father Jones weakly nods as his hands shake a bit, "Well, God bless you, Miss Bane. I hope that-- I hope that--"
Father Jones clutches his chest and gasps for air.
Ginny's expression changes to one of shock, "Oh my god. Are you OK?" She reaches out to steady him, but he falls to the ground and gasps for air.
She kneels beside him and asks, "Father, what's wrong?! Can you hear me?!" Her tone is frantic.
Father Jones closes his eyes and clutches his chest, wheezing. He frantically taps on the ground with his hand.
He manages to say, "P--Pills. Side po--cket..." His voice is barely audible.
Ginny looks around and frantically searches his pockets. She pulls out a small bottle of pills and holds it up to her face.
Just then, in walks Simon, the Elder Lasombra.
He strides towards the duo. Beth and Bella are outside arguing with each other.
Ginny looks up at him and says, "He's having a heart attack. Get help!" She sounds desperate.
Simon leans forward and grabs the bottle of pills from Ginny's hand. He holds it close to his chest as a smirk forms on his face. Ginny glares at him. His eyes turn black as dark vapors emanate from his mouth.
The Elder Lasombra raises his chin, slightly, as he clutches the bottle of pills. Father Jones stretches out his hand, begging for the pills. His breathing slows down as his eyes roll back into his head.
Ginny says, "Damnit, Simon! Gimme the fucking pills! This is Father Jones we're talking about! I need those, NOW!" Her tone is stern and authoritative.
Simon chuckles, "Ah, Ginny. No."
She bares her fangs and claws but freezes in place. She knows better than to attack an Elder like Simon.
She gulps and holds on to Father Jones's hand, "Come on, Father. Hang in there, you'll be fine. J--Just hang in there." Her voice is full of desperation. Father Jones's hand slowly slips out of her grasp.
He breathes his last and his body goes limp. His hand falls to the floor. Ginny's jaw drops open. Her eyes widen. Simon clicks his tongue.
She looks up at him and asks, "Wh--why, Simon? WHY!?"
Simon, his voice as smooth as ever, replies, "It's time we find an...alternative. And I have the perfect replacement." He smiles widely as he looks at Ginny. His eyes are a back to regular blue.
A few tears of blood flow from her eyes and onto the floor as she stares at Father Jones's corpse. Her jaw still hangs open.
Ginny stammers, "He--he visited Doctor Willie's private practice last week. He was gonna undergo heart surgery in a few days..." Her voice is trembling.
Simon softly chuckles, "Attaching yourself to Kine like that is a weakness, Ginny."
He gets on one knee and looks at her. His face is expressionless. His voice is calm and soothing. He tells her, "Do you remember when your Sire abandoned you? When he left you for the sun and the stakes to come?"
Ginny slowly nods, tears streaming down her cheeks. Simon continues, "But I took you in. I taught you EVERYTHING you needed to survive in Kindred Society. I even gave you quite the...head start."
Simon pats her head and adds, "You've done well for yourself, Ginny. But this?" He gestures to Father Jones's corpse, "This is...a bump in the road, nothing more."
Ginny sniffs, "Wh--what now? H--how are we gonna--?" She's struggling to form a complete sentence. Her voice is hoarser than usual.
Simon snaps his fingers and beckons the twin sisters to come in. They rush to the scene. Their eyes widen when they see the body.
Beth is the first to break the silence. She whispers, "Whoa...what happened?"
Bella scoffs, "He kicked the bucket, heh. Guess you were too late, eh Ginny?" She smirks and playfully nudges Ginny's arm.
Ginny shoots Bella a nasty look.
Simon clears his throat, "Enough. Bethany and I will search the Father's quarters. We have to make sure that there's nothing here that can lead back to us."
Bella rolls her eyes, "And what about the body?"
Simon replies, "Leave it. He died of natural causes--" He holds up the pill bottle and continues, "--Father Jones...simply forgot his pills." He mockingly smiles.
Ginny asks, "So, that's it? Just...leave him here and pretend like nothing happened?"
Simon studies Ginny for a few seconds, "What made this particular...mortal so special to you, hmm? What did he mean to you?" His tone is somewhat mocking.
Ginny glares at him and doesn't answer.
Simon shrugs, "Suit yourself. But, as I said before, I'm looking into a much more...viable alternative. So, you shouldn't get too attached, Ginny."
Simon continues, "Besides, you have a date tonight. Go, enjoy yourself. Bethany I will take care of everything here."
The twins exchange glances.
Bella says, "Yeah, I'll come with to the uh--"
Ginny, still shaken, says, "The Gastronova, Belladonna. The Gastronova."
Bella grimaces, "That place? Ugh. Your boyfriend's got really expensive taste, huh? Heh."
Ginny doesn't reply, she shuts Father Jones's eyes and then stands up. She turns and leaves the church. Bella follows suit.
Simon sighs and looks around the church. Beth stands awkwardly close to him, looking around as well.
Simon asks, "Well, where should we start?" He doesn't seem very concerned.
Beth shrugs and says, "Dunno. Not much of a churchgoer, y'know."
Simon eyes Beth from head to toe, "Hmm, I can tell."
Ginny walks out of the church and towards her car. She gets in the driver's seat and slams the door. She grips the steering wheel tightly. She screams in agony and pounds her fists on the dashboard, almost breaking it.
Tears of blood stream down her cheeks. Her screams are guttural and raw.
Bella stands right outside the car, just watching.
Bella gets in the backseat and asks, "So you...uh, know where this place is?"
Ginny shakes her head.
Bella says, "I do. Um..." She awkwardly clears her throat and looks out the window.
Ginny simply says, "Let's go. We're already running late." She wipes her eyes and starts the car. She pulls out of the parking lot and speeds off into the night.
Traffic is a bit denser than usual. So, it'll take sometime for Ginny to get to her destination.
Meanwhile...
Arman is in his room. He's pacing around, gripping his satellite phone tightly.
He awaits the call.
He's wearing a sharp black tuxedo with a bowtie and a plain blue shirt. His hair is slicked back. His shoes are freshly polished. 
Arman glances at his golden Fossil watch and looks himself in the mirror. He's ready.
Or as ready as one can be.
Just then, the sat-phone rings.
Arman answers, "Ah, excellent! Now, hand it over to Torvald. Just like last time."
Rolf replies, "Ja."
Torvald gets on the line and says, "Good evening, sir." His tone is polite and professional.
Arman responds, "Yes, indeed. So, have you gone through the file that my...assistant gave you?" His voice is full of anticipation.
Torvald responds, "Yes. Yes. This...seems quite larger than a small garage, no?"
Arman grimly says, "I assure you, Mr. Torvald, everyone in that Amazon Warehouse is a part of this. And all of them will have to be removed."
Torvald sighs, "It would appear so. However, it seems rather..."
Torvald struggles to find the right word to say, "...counter-intuitive. Back in Japan, the vampires were quite cunning and discreet. This is anything but."
Arman frowns, "We are not in Japan, Torvald."
"Hmm, even then, this is quite a lot..."
Arman sighs, "There's 9 of you, right?"
Torvald answers, "Yes, there is 9 of us. But--"
"And you're all skilled, correct?"
"Oh, yes. I think we've already proven that at the garage."
"Good. Then you can handle the warehouse."
Torvald takes a deep breath and asks, "Are you certain that...EVERYONE in that warehouse is a vampire?"
Arman, getting a bit annoyed, replies, "Are you doubting me, Mr. Torvald? You've seen what I can do. You've seen the evidence I've gathered. Now, you'll just have to trust me."
Torvald sighs, "I suppose I will have to." He doesn't too keen when saying that, however.
Arman continues, "Everything's in the file. Go over it with your...friends. After all, your kind is known for its...ferocity and strength. Don't let me down."
Torvald asks, "Will we be able to contact you after this? If things don't go as planned, that is."
A sly smile forms across Arman's face, "After this, I will have your...reward ready."
"And maybe we will finally get to meet you in person?"
"Hmph. Maybe. Don't get your hopes up, I'm a very busy man and I prefer to work from a distance."
Torvald dryly says, "Hmm. Of course, sir."
Arman nods, "Very good. Oh, and I expect...no survivors. No matter how much they plead or beg."
Torvald hesitates before replying, "U--Understood, sir. We are here to cleanse this town of all that is vile and corrupt."
Arman raises an eyebrow, "Then, you will not be disappointed by what you find in that ghastly warehouse. Now, do you have any other questions?"
"No, I think we'll be able to handle it."
"Hmm. Excellent. Please hand the phone back to my assistant. We will speak again once the task is completed."
"Yes. Have a good night, sir."
"Hmph. Yes, you too."
Rolf places the phone against his ear, "Ja. OK. I return. Ja. OK."
Eventually, Rolf makes his way back to his master's Haven.
Arman is standing in the living room, simply admiring his large sitting room. He smugly nods to himself in approval and adjusts his bowtie.
Just then, he hears someone at the door. It's Rolf.
Arman's Ghoul (and bodyguard) is wearing an orange turtleneck with the collar folded down. He's wearing a brown corduroy jacket, corduroy pants and brown wing tip formal shoes.
His hair is still long and he refuses to tie it up or get it cut. He's also wearing a small diamond earring in his left ear.
The Ghoul puts his rimmed sunglasses on his forehead. Arman stares at his Ghoul for a few seconds and then nods, satisfied. He checks his watch again.
He frowns and asks, "Hmm, all went well, then? They...didn't sniff you our or anything?"
Rolf replies, "No, master. Rolf was very discreet."
"Hmm. Good. Another thing, Rolf."
"Ja?"
"You'll have to return to fetch our...meals for tonight. I cannot be seen travelling in a car full of young women. I'm sure you understand why."
Rolf nods. He turns around and exits. He goes to get the car ready.
In about 15-20 minutes, Arman and Rolf arrive at their destination- The Gastronova restaurant.
Arman elegantly steps out of the car and is greeted by Leonard.
Leonard stretches out his hands, "Ah! Arman! Restaurant's all yours for tonight. My best waiters have been assigned for you and your date's table." He glances at the entrance.
Ginny's still not here.
Arman leans in closer to Lenny and asks, "And I assume these waiters of yours are capable of...keeping their mouths shut."
Lenny lets out a hearty chuckle, "Haha! We don't hire people like Maya here, Arman. The Gastronova's got standards and a certain...reputation to maintain." He sounds a bit snooty when he says that.
Leonard's wearing a white blazer with a patterned bowtie. His shirt is off-white. He also has a watch that's easily worth more than his employees' yearly salaries.
It's a Patek Philippe, because of course it is.
One thing is certain- the Ventrue in this town got money. A whole lot of it.
Lenny points towards the entrance, "Now, I'm sure your lovely date will be here any moment now. Let's head on in and wait for her." He smiles and nods towards Rolf.
Rolf waves back as he puts the car into reverse. He now has to go back and get the meals. A few of Arman's Blood Dolls should suffice for 2 Kindred Neonates on a date.
Rolf also reminds himself to get body bags and plastic sheets. Y'know, just in case one (or both) of them get carried away when feeding.
Besides, it would be a shame to leave such a mess behind at the restaurant. Lenny would NOT like that.
Rolf looks at himself in the mirror. His expression turns sour for a moment. In a way, Rolf has become attached to Arman's Blood Dolls.
Not in a creepy way, of course.
A part of him still cares for them. He actually does their hair or sings to them (in German) when they're too tired or dazed to know what the fuck is going on.
Of course, the singing's terrible and Rolf is no hairstylist. He's not particularly skilled when it comes to makeup, either. But hey, it's the thought that counts, right?
Either way, Arman has high expectations for his retainer.
Arman is escorted to the VIP section which is on the first floor.
The VIP section of The Gastronova is very elegant and classy. There are private rooms for diners who want a little more...privacy.
Or room to get all frisky.
The lighting is dim and warm, making it an intimate and romantic place to eat. The tables are covered with silky white tablecloths.
The chairs are comfortable and soft to sit on for extended periods of time (great for business negotiations and such).
The entire section is empty. Just as expected.
Lenny does a wide, sweeping gesture, "Whole place is yours, Arman. Just remember what I told you yesterday night, alright?"
Arman nods, "Of course, Leonard."
Lenny adds, "No feeding on the staff, though."
Arman chuckles, "Don't worry, my good man. We will behave ourselves. Also, I assume you don't have a policy against...bringing your own food?"
Lenny smiles, "I'll make an exception. Heh."
Arman gets settled into a large, comfortable booth and waits for his date to arrive. He glances at his watch again.
"Where is she?!" he asks himself as he checks his phone for any missed messages or calls.
He sighs, "I hope she hasn't stood me up or had any second thoughts..." He mutters something to himself and shakes his head.
After about 5 minutes (which feel more like 15), Arman sees Ginny's car pull up in front of the restaurant.
He breathes a sigh of relief rubs his forehead.
Ginny and Bella step out of the car. Bella adjusts her clothes and smoothens her hair.
Ginny looks up at the restaurant and strides in. She's a bit hunched over and looks nervous. She blinks her eyes and sniffs.
Bella stands outside, looking around the place.
Ginny puts her car keys in her golden purse and tells Bella, "Night's for me and Arman. You're gonna have to...find something else to do." Her tone is firm and cold.
Bella rolls her eyes and says, "Hmph. Sure. You owe me, by the way."
Ginny asks, "Owe you what?"
Bella raises an eyebrow. She puts her hands on her hips and looks at Ginny expectantly.
Ginny scoffs, "Grab a cab or something. I'm not your goddamn chauffeur, Bella."
Bella shoots back, "Well, how am I supposed to?! I don't have a cellphone or--"
Ginny holds her hand up, "Not my problem, Bella. Not. My. Problem. Now, if you'll excuse me, I got a date with a cute Ventrue and I don't wanna be late."
Ginny mockingly blows a kiss and winks, "Ciao."
Bella grunts and throws her hands up in the air, "Fine. Fuck you too, Ginny." Bella walks the other direction.
Ginny doesn't hear what Bella said, nor does she care.
The doors open as Lenny welcomes Ginny, "Hope the place was easy to find."
Ginny jokingly says, "Yeah, all I had to do was follow the giant piles of money this place sucks up."
Lenny chuckles, "Heh, yeah. We have to keep the...undesirables away, don't we? Now, follow me, I'll take you to your table." He glances at his fancy watch and smiles.
Arman adjusts his hair one last time as Ginny and Lenny approach him. The former is trying her best to maintain her composure and look normal.
Lenny claps his hands together and says, "Ah! Here we are. Arman, your date."
Arman gets up and lightly hugs Ginny. He also bows down slightly and gives Ginny a kiss on her hand. He does all this with the most suave and charismatic aura imaginable.
Arman smiles warmly and says, "You look...stunning, my dear. Absolutely stunning." He pauses to admire her impeccable makeup and choice of attire.
Ginny bites her lip and says, "Oh, you charmer." She playfully places her hand on Arman's chest.
Ginny asks, "Any place more...private. Window seating ain't my thing." She smirks and gives Arman a suggestive look.
Lenny looks around and suggests, "How about one of our VIP rooms?"
Ginny smiles, "Sounds great! Let's go." She grabs Arman by the arm and pulls him along.
Lenny chuckles to himself, "A Ventrue and a Lasombra on a date, heh. What'll the others think?" He shakes his head and walks back to his office.
The VIP rooms are cozy. The lighting is apparently adjustable (color, intensity, and all that), but it flickers a bit as Ginny and Arman enter the room.
There's also a small table with a vase of fresh flowers in the center.
Ginny and Arman sit on the comfy couch and smile at each other.
Ginny playfully says, "So, this is a pretty nice place, huh?" She looks around the room.
Arman smiles, "It is. The decor is simply magnificent."
Ginny says, "Heh, you Ventrue got great taste in all this kinda stuff, huh?"
Arman reminds her, "We are not also known as 'The Clan of Kings' for nothing, my dear." He grins as he says that.
Ginny, in turn, reminds him, "Just remember the Shadows behind the throne, big guy."
"Always, my dear. Always."
Arman places his head against the back of the couch and exhales.
Ginny asks, "So...what do we do now?"
Arman shrugs, "Hmm, I suppose we wait until our...food arrives."
Ginny smirks, "Ah, so Rolfy boy is bringing your Blood Dolls over, huh?"
Arman responds, "Yes, I couldn't be seen travelling with them. People in this town tend to...talk. Sometimes, a bit too much."
Ginny rolls her eyes, "Hmph. Tell me about it. So, what do you wanna do now?"
Arman looks into Ginny's eyes, "We should get to know each other more."
Ginny licks her lips, "Ah."
Arman suggests, "How about a quid pro quo? We take turns asking each other questions."
Ginny slowly nods, "Yeah. Sounds like fun."
Arman holds his hand out, "Well then, shall we start?"
He offers to go first, "Tell me about your..." he thinks for a few moments, "...Sire. Yes, tell me more about the person who Embraced you."
Ginny's expression turns sour, "Ugh. I ever see him again, I'm gonna fuckin' stake him, tear his arms off, and leave the rest of him for the sun. Why the fuck would you wanna know about him?"
Arman raises his eyebrows a bit, "Wow, you certainly...dislike him, Ginny. Anyway, I'm merely curious about the person who Sired someone as beautiful...and charming as you."
Ginny sighs, "His name was Abernathy. S--Septimus Abernathy. Southern guy. Blonde. Fat. Ugly mustache." Her voice cracks a bit.
Arman places his hand on Ginny's shoulder, "Is everything fine?"
She continues, "It was back in the 80s. I was a car mechanic in New York City--"
Arman can't hesitate laughing, "YOU? A car mechanic? That's...unexpected, to say the least. My apologies, continue."
Ginny smirks, "Yeah, yeah, drink it up. I was a car mechanic in fuckin' NYC. Long story short, he and the other Lasombra made my life a living hell before Embracing me."
Ginny lowers her head, "And, the rest...well, I don't wanna talk about it."
Arman asks, "You're not...willing to say any more, are you?"
Ginny shakes her head, "That's all you're gettin' out of me."
"Hmm. Fair enough. Still, the idea of you in overalls, holding a wrench, with grease all over your face. Heh, I simply cannot picture it." He smiles to himself as he imagines Ginny with dirty overalls.
Ginny glares at him, "Anyway, what's your Sire like, then? They an asshole who abandon you or--"
Arman quickly interrupts, "No, my dear, not at all. MY Sire is nothing like your...Abernathy," he sniffs.
"Brayden was and is a fantastic and brilliant man. An prominent Elder of Clan Ventrue. While I was still a lowly employee at HAL in the 90s, he...noticed me."
Ginny narrows her eyes, "HAL? What's that?"
"Hindustan Aeronautics Limited, my dear."
"Hindustan? Where's that?"
Arman gently sighs, "I was born and raised in India. North India, in particular."
Ginny simply says, "Ah. I always thought you were from Vermont or something."
"Vermont?! What in god's name would give you such an idea?"
Arman dismissively waves his hand and continues, "Anyway, I was in that job for the better part of 2 decades. For its time, the salary was decent enough." He shrugs.
"Then one day, I decide to go and grab a drink at a bar that had just opened up right opposite the office building. The stress was getting to me." He frowns as he says that.
Ginny playfully nods, "Oh yeah? What happened?" She leans closer. Her eyes are locked on his face.
Arman winces a bit, "The usual. Office politics, pointless meetings, mandatory overtime," he laughs dryly.
Arman goes on, "It was pretty late in the evening and in walks this young man with a sharp American accent. Of course, back then, my accent was...less than stellar." He shrugs and smirks.
Ginny simply nods.
He continues, "So, I notice him. And he notices me. He pulls up a seat and we get to talking. About life, business, real estate, the stock market, women, you know?" He gestures to Ginny for permission to continue.
Ginny nods.
"I find myself opening up to this strange American man and, before I know it, we're both pretty well acquainted with one another."
Arman takes a break from from speaking and steeples his fingers together.
There is a certain glint in Ginny's eye. A part of her wishes her relationship with her Sire wasn't so...awful (to put it mildly!).
But she quickly pushes that thought to the back of her mind. She knows better than to dwell on those kinds of feelings.
Still, there's one thing she can't quite put to the back of her mind just yet- the passing (one could perhaps say murder) of Father Jones. Simon's motives for withholding the pills are unclear.
As are the motives of most Kindred Elders.
Ginny lets out a half-hearted smile and clutches her arm. She looks to the side. There's a long pause. She's lost in her thoughts. She snaps back to reality when Arman holds his hand out again.
He looks at his date with concern, "Is everything...alright, my dear. You seem...distressed." He asks himself what the cause could be.
Ginny sighs, "You uh...got a Touchstone, Arman?"
Arman shakes his head, "I can't say I've ever had great need for one. Why?"
Ginny hesitates and almost stammers, "Well, uh...I had one."
Arman leans closer and asks, "'Had one'? What happened to...them?"
Ginny nervously bites her lip, "He...died. T--This evening, actually," her voice cracks.
Arman places his cold hand on Ginny's (equally) cold hand, "I--I'm so sorry, my dear. I truly am. What happened?"
Ginny wants to tell him but she (for whatever reason) decides against it, so she vaguely says, "Heart attack." She sniffles and looks away from him.
Arman strokes Ginny's hand, "I am sorry, Ginny. I--If you'd like, we can put off this date."
Ginny quickly wipes her eyes and shakes her head, "No, Arman. I wanna be here. I wanna enjoy myself. And you..."
She moves closer to him and places her hand on his chest, "You make me feel things, Arman. Feel things I...haven't felt in a while."
Arman blushes a bit, "Well, my dear Ginny. I...feel the same way about you." He gulps and tries to sound as suave as possible.
She gives him a quick peck on the cheek, staining it with just a bit of lipstick.
She smiles and says, "The night's still young. So, any ETA on our meals?"
Arman replies, "Well, traffic was denser than usual. It reminds me of--"
Ginny coyly interjects, "The night we made our move against the McMahons."
Arman fakes a smile, "Yes, that..." A hint of regret is detectable in his tone.
"The traffic..." He grimly chuckles as he tries to find the words to say.
Ginny folds her arms, "We did what we had to do to secure our position. Isn't it...the long game, Arman?"
"Yes, yes, it certainly is. Yet, I still have mixed feelings regarding the McMahons even after seeing what they did to their own son." He frowns as he remembers what they did to Jon.
Ginny shrugs and asks, "Whatever. And now we've got the next part of our plan. So, your furry friends gonna rip us some Thin-Bloods soon?" She winks at him.
Arman coldly responds, "There will be blood, my dear."
He pulls out his phone and spends a few moments tapping and scrolling around.
Arman then places the phone on the table and stares at Ginny, "See for yourself."
Ginny doesn't lean in too close, "Surveillance cam footage? Wow, real exciting, real freakin' exciting."
Arman taps his phone again and the footage changes to another cam, "Notice...anyone familiar?"
Ginny studies this new bit of live footage and sees Dylan working, "Heh. I see fuckin' Dylan. What a loser."
Arman says, "Yes. This footage is live. A friend of mine in the NSA was kind enough to give it to me."
Ginny narrows her eyes and says, "So, when's the live show gonna start?"
Arman raises his hand, "Not tonight, I'm afraid. I just spoke to our Garou 'friends' this evening. These hounds need time to prepare. But the good news is..." he flashes his fangs as he smiles.
He continues, "They will do what needs to be done when the time is right."
Ginny furrows her brows, "Huh. Why'd you have to get those furries involved in the first place?"
Arman reassures her, "I assure you my dear, after they've done all the heavy lifting, the cleanup will be rather simple."
Ginny sighs, "Y'know, for some reason, I don't doubt that. You can get cold feet at times, but you always...do what you gotta do." She chuckles a bit.
Arman graciously accepts her compliment with a slight bow of his head.
Ginny asks, "What do we do after the Thin-Bloods are dusted?"
Arman scratches the back of his neck, "The next...phase of our plan involves you, Ginny."
"Huh. How?"
"You'll need to convince Sheriff Eunice to see things our way. No easy task, all things considered."
Ginny looks away as she brushes her hair to the side. She asks, "Hmph. And how exactly are we gonna 'convince' a Malkavian to see things our way? They see things a million different ways!"
Arman shrugs, "That is your department, Ginny. Try...connecting with her. Woman to woman."
"Hmph. Sure, I guess." Ginny crosses her arms.
"Trust me, my dear, in the end all this WILL be worth it."
Arman adds, "Of course, we have to simultaneously focus on weakening the influence of Prince Lucas. I have a few ideas."
"I dunno how we can do that, though. He might be a Ravnos, but he ain't a total moron."
Arman reminds her, "We already got rid of his Ghoul and right-hand man, so, the next logical step would be to--"
Ginny eagerly interjects, "Destroy him too!"
Arman quickly shakes his head, "No, no, my dear. Well, I mean, yes, maybe, but..." He nervously adjusts his bowtie.
He continues, "Not right now. It'll have to be done at the right time. There's just too much...at play right now. No, this requires more tact and discretion than you Lasombra are often known for." He sternly says that last part.
Ginny shrugs, "Your loss, smarty-pants. We could easily fuck up a buncha Ravnos, no problem."
Arman exhales sharply, "Just try to see things my way, my dear. A--a different way. My plan is...perfectly logical. Trust me."
Ginny sarcastically raises an eyebrow, "Quid pro quo? Last I checked, trust is a 2-way street."
She looks directly into his eyes, "Trust ME or trust nobody."
Arman mutters something to himself. He puts on a slight smirk, "We'll just have to work together to ensure that this plan of OURS succeeds. There's a lot riding on it, isn't there?"
Arman does a broad, sweeping gesture, "It's not just our futures. It's for the future of this town and the rest of the Kindred in it. Or, the worthy ones, that is."
Ginny playfully bites her lip, "Speaking of futures, you found anyone to Embrace yet? Hmm?"
Arman lowers his voice a bit, "I was about to ask you the same thing. Heh, I guess great minds do think alike, after all." He chuckles.
Ginny chuckles along.
Arman ponders for sometime before replying, "I've actually been thinking about Bernice for a while."
Ginny scoffs, "She's toast, Arman. After you-know-who opened her mouth while the other one opened her legs." She laughs at that last part.
"That reminds me, have your friends in the legal profession made contact with Bernice's parents yet?"
Ginny shrugs, "Don't see the point after what happened with her campaign and all."
Arman winces a bit, "True, but the plan is...already in motion. Please, make sure your people get to her parents first."
Ginny sighs, "O-kay, sure. But only cuz you're asking."
Arman suavely says, "I always ask nicely, my dear."
He then says, "In any case, I'd be interested in Embracing Miss Bernice. She is Clan Ventrue material. I suppose I need to further assess her first. What do you think, Ginny?"
Ginny nods, "Yeah, Bernice seems the Blue-Blood type, y'know. Politicians, heh."
Arman smirks, "Yes, very much so. I believe that we could use some new Ventrue members. Especially in this town. Besides, Bernice's parents have connections to the military-intelligence community."
He raises a finger, as if making a point, "THAT, my dear, is worth its weight in gold."
Ginny remarks, "Always 2 steps ahead, huh?"
The Ventrue holds his head up high, "Always, my dear Ginny. Always."
Arman grabs Ginny's hand and gently strokes it with his thumb. He continues, "How about you, Ginny?"
Ginny looks at Arman's thumb on her hand and says, "Actually, it's something you said at the gala that got me thinking, y'know."
She continues, "Annette...I just uh, gotta find a way to push her, y'know?" Her tone is very serious and her eyes are fixed on Arman. She's dead serious about this. The corner of her mouth twitches a bit.
Arman chuckles, "Then, you're in luck, Ginny. I heard she rammed her car into her former place of work a few days ago. The newspaper says she got mandatory community service for the next few months." He laughs.
Ginny bites her lip, "Is that so? Huh, interesting." She mutters a few words under her breath. She's definitely on to something here.
Ginny asks, "What's she like, Arman?"
Arman scoffs, "I've never met the woman personally, but she does seem...driven. And you Magisters do like people who are driven, hmm?"
Ginny replies, "Yeah, driven to the fuckin' ground." She continues, "She anything like Maya?"
Arman frowns, "Oh, god no. Maya is...too soft. And, from what I've seen, Annette is more...bite than bark." He chuckles.
Ginny grits her teeth, "I still think lettin' the Tremere Embrace Maya was a huge fuckin' mistake, Arman."
Arman gently sighs, "And if we killed her while she still drew breath, we'd incur the fury of her...girlfriend." He shudders, as if thinking of a truly nightmarish idea. He clears his throat.
Ginny retorts, "Ya think we can't take on a buncha Tremere?" She smirks.
Arman coldly remarks, "You underestimate what they are truly capable of, Ginny. I've been with one, so I know a thing or 2 about their Blood Magic. They're tricky and devious. Very much so."
Ginny narrows her eyes, "When you say 'been with one', you mean like a Bl--"
Arman slowly nods, "Yes, Ginny. A Blood Bond. I was the Regent in that...relationship. Obviously."
Ginny interjects, "And that Tremere was your Thrall." She glares at him.
Arman goes on, "She was a very enchanting woman, to say the least."
Ginny mockingly asks, "Then, why'd you break it off, Casanova?"
Arman shuffles uncomfortably, "Actually, SHE broke it off. I don't know how, but she did it. Somehow, she did it." He spits those words out. He seems to be...sore about the whole ordeal.
He continues, "But, she did have some very interesting things to say about her Clan. And even more interesting things to say about Eleanor."
"Like what?"
Arman coyly smiles, "That is for another night, my dear. Now, shall we go back to discussing Miss Annette?"
Ginny snickers, "Sure, yeah, why not."
She adds, "What about gettin' authorization for this hypothetical Embrace?"
Arman calmly shrugs, "We are in a period of transition, Ginny. The current Prince's word won't matter for much longer."
Ginny leans in, "And what about the Tremere? Eleanor's no one to be messed with, Arman. She's an Elder." She narrows her eyes.
Arman confidently asks, "Have you been paying close attention to Eleanor's behavior for the past few months?"
Ginny shakes her head, "Why'd I care?"
The Ventrue goes on, "She's been...forgetting things, repeating herself, and acting...strange."
Ginny gets what Arman is saying and raises an eyebrow, "It's The Beckoning, ain't it? It's taking a toll on her mind."
"Perhaps."
Ginny presses her date, "What about the other Tremere?"
Arman casually waves his hand, "Hmm, let's just say that I'm not worried about them as much. Just Eleanor. And perhaps Maya."
Ginny shrugs, "If they get in our way, we'll just have to...destroy them. All." She says that as if it were completely normal.
Arman presses his lips into a thin line and silently nods.
The Lasombra runs her fingers across her teeth, "I'm getting hungry, Arman. When's Rolf coming with our meals?" The Hunger, that insatiable urge to feed and drink the blood, is slowly taking over her thoughts.
Arman is also feeling it, "He should be here soon, my dear. So, amuse me, Abyss Mystic, how would you go about Embracing someone like Annette?"
He looks into her eyes and asks, "Would it be similar to the circumstances preceding your Embrace? Back at the gala, I remember you mentioned that it was something akin to a hazing ritual."
Ginny vaguely responds, "We got a way of doing that. I learnt that pretty fast after my Embrace. You got any ideas on how to mess with this Annette chick?"
"She's already been quite...messed up--"
Ginny interrupts, "Not enough, pretty boy. Not enough." For a few moments, her eyes change completely black and she hisses at the Ventrue.
Arman seems taken aback by this (only slightly, however).
Arman nods, "Hmm, perhaps you are right." He adjusts his tie and looks Ginny over, noticing her breasts.
He adjusts his tie again and clears his throat, "This dress you're wearing. It's beautiful, Ginny."
Ginny's eyes return to normal and she chuckles, "Hmph. Yeah, thanks. The previous owner's not gonna need it anymore. Heh."
She adds, "It's nice to be able to look like a movie star once in a while."
Arman's tone becomes a bit more serious, "It's a shame that you of all people cannot see how gorgeous you look right now." He looks into her eyes.
Ginny indifferently says, "It's the Lasombra Clan Curse, Arman. Ya learn to live with it."
Arman props himself up and sits closer to Ginny, "Which is why I took the liberty of...convincing a local street artist to do a portrait of us. Tonight. After our...date. He agreed to do it. And, I've already paid him."
"You...'convinced' him, huh?"
"I can be a very persuasive man, Ginny." He winks at her.
Ginny says, "Uh, thanks, I guess. Ever since the Embrace, I haven't had many decent pictures to look at or hold on to."
Arman touches Ginny's face and smiles, "This is truly a special moment for us, Ginny. We can look forward to our future, together. Perhaps, with our potential...Childer by our side. Me and Bernice. You and Annette. The possibilities--"
Ginny sharply exhales, "We're really going through with this, huh? What about--"
Arman leans in and cups her face. His dead eyes meet her (equally) dead eyes. His lips part a bit.
Ginny rushes forward and passionately kisses him. The two stay lip-locked for what seems like an eternity.
Their tongues dance, their fangs are a bit more exposed than usual, but they're not exactly ready to kill and feed.
Yet.
Their fangs and lips remain pressed against each other's as they slowly pull each other closer.
However, this moment of passion is interrupted by Leonard.
The Ventrue restaurant owner raps on the door, "Pardon me..."
Ginny and Arman pull away from each other and stare at Lenny, slightly embarrassed.
Leonard has a bottle...of not-wine in his hand. No, the liquid therein is thicker, redder, and is very definitely blood.
Leonard raises the bottle a bit, "Since your Blood Dolls aren't here yet, I thought I'd bring over a little bit of the um...The Gastronova special."
He walks over and pours some blood into a wine glass for Ginny.
Arman still looks a little embarrassed and his lips are still slightly parted.
Ginny and Arman politely say thank you.
Lenny winks at Arman and leaves. He closes the door behind him.
Arman looks at Ginny and says, "That...was unexpected." Arman feels a tingling sensation in his crotch.
Something he hasn't felt in a while.
Ginny seductively stares at him and holds the glass full of blood up to her lips. She makes a show of it, a sort of promise of what's to come later this night.
She sips a bit of blood and smacks her lips. Her eyes briefly turn black and she lets out a very small, sultry moan.
Arman just looks at her, frozen in his seat. His eyes are completely dilated. His jaw is slightly slack.
Ginny smiles at him and playfully bites her lip, showing her blood-stained teeth.
She shivers a bit as the blood courses through her body.
Arman warmly smiles at his date.
She teases him, "Too bad you Ventrue are picky about your blood. This stuff's...exquisite." She smacks her lips again as she puts her finger in the glass and swirls it around.
She brings the bloody finger to Arman's lips, "Go on, take a risk, big guy. Have some. Just a bit." She slowly brings the finger into his mouth. Her lips curl up into a smirk.
The Ventrue is hesitant at first but slowly budges as he sucks on Ginny's finger, tasting this supposedly exquisite blood. His eyes glaze over. His hands start to shake a bit.
He gulps as he feels a strange sensation in the pit of his undead stomach.
Even that small amount of blood is likely going to be regurgitated later. As scarlet vomit, most likely.
There's only one "type" (or "kind" or whatever you wanna call it) of blood that he will accept. And its vessels are still not here yet.
Arman angrily asks himself, "What is taking Rolf so long--"
15 or so minutes later, Arman hears a familiar honking sound.
Fucking finally.
Arman steps out of the VIP room and sees Rolf pulling up in front of the restaurant. All 3 Blood Dolls. 1 for Ginny. 1 for Arman. And 1, just in case something happens to either.
One of the Blood Dolls exits the car. She's very attractive. Dark skin, slim build, wavy hair, and a big, beautiful smile. Her dress is sleeveless with a fluid neckline. It's gold, with a black trim.
The next Blood Doll looks to be in her late 20s. She's wearing a blouse with a low-cut neckline, black slacks, and boots. Her blonde hair is braided and has streaks of black in it. She's wearing a lot of makeup.
The last Blood Doll appears to be in her mid 20s. Fair skin, slightly freckled. She's wearing a long, elegant, purple dress. Her hair is tied in a loose bun and her lipstick matches her dress. The rest of her makeup is simple.
Rolf takes the first and second by their arms, while the third walks in front of him. He looks up and sees Arman.
Arman proceeds to head downstairs with Ginny following him. As he walks down the stairs, he looks at his Blood Dolls.
He asks his Ghoul, "You're late, Rolf. Were there any problems?"
Rolf dutifully replies, "Nein. Only traffic."
Arman lowers his voice as Rolf maintains his grip on the 2 women, "Did they make any...fuss?"
Rolf shakes his head.
Arman gently claps his hands once, "Well, I think we can take care of them from here, Rolf. Thank you."
Rolf says, "Master, I would like to speak with you. Privately."
Arman narrows his eyes. He wonders what the matter could be.
They go to a secluded corner of the ground floor while Ginny studies the 3 Blood Dolls. They just stand there, staring at her.
They probably know what awaits them.
Arman places his hand on Rolf's shoulder, "What's the matter now?"
Rolf's voice slightly trembles, "I saw that...man again."
"Which one?"
"From last time you sent me to meet...your wolf friends. When I was returning, I saw dead police officer..."
Arman sighs, "Ah, that. Yes, you're certain it's the same man?"
Rolf shakily nods, "Ja. He saw me again and this time, he waved at me."
Arman rubs his chin and thinks, "Hmm, I see." He strokes his chin.
Arman clicks his tongue, "We shall have to discuss this later, Rolf. The last thing I need is a nosy FBI agent who leaves dead bodies in his wake." Arman chuckles a bit. He has a habit of talking to himself.
Rolf nods, "Ja. Shall I wait here for master to finish or--"
Arman pulls out his wallet and hands Rolf a few $100 bills, "Why don't you order something for yourself, Rolf? The food here, I'm told, is quite excellent." He winks.
Rolf shakes his hand, "Danke. You are a very kind master." He smiles and heads for a table.
Lenny greets Rolf and they get to talking about some sports or fitness thing (Rolf doesn't understand American football), leaving Arman and Ginny alone again.
They head back upstairs to the VIP room, with the 3 Blood Dolls closely following.
Ginny impatiently says, "Well, well. Guess that takes care of that."
She eyes the 3 Blood Dolls one more time before turning to Arman, "Hey, Arman?"
"Yes, my dear?"
"Your Blood Dolls, do they uh...always stare at you like that?" Her tone is curious.
Arman responds, "The Kiss can be quite intoxicating. Orgasmic, even. We take a part of them every time we feed and they perhaps...unwittingly or not retain a part of us."
Arman gestures to one of the Blood Dolls, "Take her for instance," he points to the dark-skinned woman, "She aspires to be a movie star. It's why she left Louisiana. I'm afraid she never got quite far." He deviously smiles.
Arman continues, "Well, I promised her stardom. I promised that one day her name would be on the Hollywood Walk of Fame."
Ginny snickers.
Arman replies, "Of course, I am a creature of my word. If she survives this night and the nights to come, I will place her in some of the finest acting schools in the country."
Ginny smiles at him, "I guess that makes ya one of a kind, then." She chuckles, sarcastically.
Arman reminds her, "But many of them don't make it," he points to the woman with braided her, "She's from Arkansas, I believe. Very strong southern accent. She...well, suffice it to say, she has some issues."
Arman taps his chin, "Still, she's very...stubborn. And determined."
Ginny replies, "Heh, that's cute and all. But when I was still a mortal, I didn't really care too much about the medium-rare cow on my plate. Y'know?"
Arman chuckles, "It's an indignant thing, isn't it, Ginny?"
"What is?"
"That us Kindred are actively being hunted down by our...food sources, for lack of a better term."
Ginny shrugs, "Heh. We just gotta take them out before they get too many of us."
Arman grimly laughs, "You do have a point, my dear. So, shall we?"
Ginny bites her lip, "Thought you'd never ask."
She gets up and heads to the 3 Blood Dolls who are silently sitting at a table. She gestures for them to get up.
Arman follows closely behind.
The dark-skinned woman in the gold dress stands up first.
Arman tells Ginny, "Take your pick, my dear," he beckons her to choose whoever she wants.
Ginny snickers and chooses the woman in gold. She points at her, "You're mine." The woman blushes and smiles as her lips quiver.
She craves The Kiss. The eternal bite.
Arman points to the woman with braided hair, "And you're mine." The blonde woman gets up. Her hands shake a bit as Arman licks his lips.
Arman looks over to the last Blood Doll, "Stay here and keep quiet."
She gasps, probably disappointed (or relieved) that she wasn't picked.
Arman and Ginny take their Blood Dolls back to the VIP room. They shut the door behind them.
Arman locks the door behind them as he gazes at his Blood Doll.
Arman takes his time examining her. He sits down and invites her to sit on his lap.
She silently obliges.
Ginny plays with her Blood Doll's wavy hair. The Blood Doll timidly asks, "You...like it?"
Ginny carelessly responds, "Nah." She then takes her Blood Doll by the hand and sits down next to her.
Ginny's Blood Doll willingly moves her head to the side and holds her long, wavy hair back. Her neck is fully exposed.
The Lasombra lets out a small, but content, smile.
Arman, meanwhile, pushes his Blood Doll's head to the side.
His fangs withdraw and he presses his lips against her neck. He bites down. Gently.
Like the "gentleman" that he is.
Ginny's Blood Doll flinches and lets out a small gasp. She moans.
Ginny's fangs are already sunken in.
Ginny's Blood Doll holds her tightly, refusing to budge or let go. She wants this.
She Needs it.
Ginny's fangs puncture her Blood Doll's skin. She feels a tingling sensation in her neck as the warm, sweet, blood flows into her mouth.
Arman, too, can feel the warm and sweet blood flow into his mouth. He drinks greedily as his eyes widen.
For now, their Beasts are being satiated. But that only lasts until the next time one has to feed...
After a few euphoric seconds, Arman withdraws and licks the puncture wounds shut. His fangs are fully exposed and his eyes have taken on a deeper hue.
He licks his lips clean of the blood.
His Blood Doll is not dead. Her breathing is ragged. He gently lays her on the couch, besides him.
Ginny's Blood Doll lies on the couch, her chest rising and falling. Her wound has been licked clean. Her eyes are half-lidded and her head is lying back. Her lips are slightly parted and her legs are shaking.
Ginny looks at her Blood Doll and remarks, "Arman, is she...?"
Arman feels the blood making its way through his entire undead body. He looks at Ginny and casually responds, "Yes, I believe she's...climaxing. Not her first time doing so."
Ginny smirks and remarks, "That's fuckin' something. Didn't even know you could do that." She playfully chuckles.
Ginny feels satisfied, but she looks outside and sees the woman in the purple dress nursing a glass of water, staring into it and mumbling something or the other to herself.
Arman notices his date is staring at the last Blood Doll and he says, "Shall we share one, my dear?"
Ginny agrees, "Yeah, let's do it."
Arman gets up and asks the woman to follow him. She seems apprehensive at first, but then decides to obey. She obediently follows Arman back to the VIP room.
She gasps as she sees the other 2 Blood Dolls splayed on the couch.
Arman grips the Blood Doll's shoulders tightly and looks into her eyes, "Remember what I promised you. A fully-paid scholarship to the finest drama schools anywhere in the world."
The Blood Doll looks up at Arman and nods, "Yes--yes." Her voice is trembling.
The Blood Doll proceeds to sit in between Arman and Ginny.
Arman tells the Blood Doll, "You know what to do, don't you."
She dryly nods and pushes her head back onto the couch, exposing her neck further.
Ginny's fangs are out and she leans in and begins her own feeding.
Arman says, "Don't worry. This won't hurt."
She nervously gulps as another set of fangs pierce into her neck, taking her blood.
The Beast rouses within both Arman and Ginny.
Arman tightens his grip on the Blood Doll as his claws snap out. He drinks deeply, hungrily, and without mercy.
The Blood Doll's body shakes. Her eyes are wide and her face is getting paler.
Ginny growls as she feeds. She takes more than a sip. More than a mere gulp. She takes more than she should.
The Blood Doll slowly goes limp and her eyes flutter close. Ginny lets out a small moan as she continues drinking. She wants more. She needs more. She craves more.
She feeds. Arman feeds.
With one final gasp of shock, the Blood Doll falls limp. She's been drained of every last drop. Her skin is a sickly shade of white. Her eyes are a ghastly shade of red. Her body is lifeless. She's gone.
Like so many other mortals preyed on before.
Arman pulls away and doesn't bother licking the puncture wound shut.
Ginny also pulls away and doesn't bother licking her victim's neck. She doesn't give a shit.
Her eyes are completely black and her fangs are fully extended, dripping with blood. She snarls.
Blood flows down Arman's chin. He looks to the side, not sure what to do next.
Ginny swiftly grabs Arman and presses her lips against his. She kisses him hungrily and deeply.
Arman seems a bit surprised by this, but he returns the kiss just as passionately.
Eventually, they pull back and Ginny says, "Whoa..."
Arman takes off his bowtie and puts it in his pocket. He then unbuttons his collar and throws his head back. He looks to Ginny and asks, "Was it...enough?" His voice is a bit strained.
Ginny licks her lips as she savors the blood and feels it making its way throughout her body, "Yeah, I think it was." She sits back, trying to regain her composure.
She sees the dead Blood Doll, lifeless, pale, and exsanguinated, lying on the couch.
She turns to Arman and asks, "What...are we gonna do with this?" she gestures to the dead Blood Doll.
Arman softly chuckles, "That's why I have Rolf, my dear."
Arman summons his retainer, who's just sitting at one of the tables on the ground floor.
Rolf looks up as Arman beckons him. He quickly makes his way upstairs.
Arman simply says, "You know what you have to do." He points to the lifeless body.
Rolf solemnly nods and gets to work. First, he heads downstairs to bring the car much closer to the restaurant.
Lenny asks him if he needs help, but Rolf simply tells him, "Nein, I am...quite good at this." He sounds as professional and as serious as possible.
Lenny says, "Bring the body through the side," he points to a side entrance. Rolf silently nods and does as he is told.
The Ghoul goes back upstairs and carries the dead woman in his arms. He walks her to the car, which is parked right out front. He loads her in the trunk, gently and carefully.
Lenny looks around as Rolf carries out this sordid deed. He's smoking a cigar, swerving his head from side to side. He can't see anything.
And he wouldn't want to.
Arman says, "Make sure you get rid of her soon. Also, get these 2 out of here and...back home." He points to the 2 women splayed on the couch, who are just starting to come to their senses.
Rolf cocks his head, "Master...not returning home?"
Arman gives Ginny a look, "I will be spending the remainder of the night and tomorrow morning at--"
Ginny wryly interrupts, "My place, Rolf."
Rolf curtly bows his head, "I will dispose of corpse and take other 2 ladies back home, master."
Arman firmly says, "I expect nothing less, Rolf. Goodnight. Pick me up tomorrow evening, if you please. You know Ginny's address, don't you?" He smiles.
Rolf bows his head and leaves, ready to carry out his orders. He helps the other 2 Blood Dolls up and leads them to the car. They both get in the backseat as Rolf takes the wheel.
Lenny stops Rolf before he leaves. He seems to be holding a plastic bag in his hand. He says, "Here you go," as he holds up the bag.
Apparently Rolf ordered some well-done Wagyu Steak with fries. He was planning on eating it in the restaurant, but well...
Lenny hands Rolf his order and says, "Normally, I wouldn't recommend taking something like this to go, but Arman and his..." he chuckles, "...date got a bit carried away tonight. Heh. It happens. I know that feeling, Rolf."
Lenny clears his throat, "Anyway, heat it up on a pan for a few minutes. DON'T microwave it."
Rolf nods, "Ja. Thank you, Leonard."
Lenny chuckles, "No probs, Rolf!"
Arman gets up and extends a hand to Ginny. She takes his hand and stands up. They walk to the window.
They see Rolf driving away with the 2 Blood Dolls in the backseat. The dead one is in the trunk.
Ginny laughs, "So, how do you often get rid of bodies in such situations?"
Arman has a faraway look, "That, my dear is ALL Rolf's specialty. I stay out of such...unpleasant things. But, I trust my Ghoul to do as I say. He's quite reliable."
"Hmph. And, where will the dead bitch wash up?"
Arman shrugs as he brushes a few strands of hair off his tux, "There will be no 'washing up' for her."
"Ya think I should get myself a Rolf, too?"
"Men like him, Ginny, are not made in factories, I'm afraid. When choosing a Ghoul, one must be...selective."
Ginny playfully smiles, "Ya got any suggestions, fancy pants?"
Arman looks at his shoes, "Your retainer must...complement you. They must be able to meet any...demand, or, at least, the need you have for them at the moment."
Ginny chuckles, "Hmph. Well, I guess that's something else for me to think about. Where'd you find the big guy, anyway?"
Arman replies, "Berlin. He was a bouncer at the Club Oase. Quite the intimidating figure, even back then. I suppose I had an...affinity for someone of his stature."
He laughs and continues, "Besides, his life...and strength was being wasted in that club. Throwing drunk and belligerent patrons out every single night? Hmph, no, it was simply a waste."
He shakes his head, "He was destined for...greater things."
Arman then says, "Apparently they closed down the Club Oase. I'm afraid the Ventrue of Berlin weren't all too bright to begin with. As I recall, they were mostly Neonates who Diablerized their Sires."
He goes on, "Oh, the fights they used to get into? Heh. I was there for business, of course."
"What kinda business was that?"
"Shipping, my dear."
Ginny laughs, "Really? Ya made your big bucks in...Shipping?"
Arman reassures his date, "It's quite the lucrative field, when you have the right connections. I'm a very successful businessman in Europe, Ginny. Not just in North America."
Ginny raises her eyebrow, "Ah...nice. What else ya got?"
"I hold shares in many Fortune 500 companies."
He smiles, "The key is knowing how to get ahead in business and what risks are worth taking."
Arman raises his chin, "Anyway, I don't wish to bore you with all the...encumbering details of such things, my dear."
Ginny playfully sighs, "No, no. It's a um...beautiful night, isn't it?"
Arman nods as he looks up at the starry night sky through the window, "Yes, it is. I'd much rather spend time like this, Ginny. I enjoy your company. And your...attitude. It's refreshing."
He leans in and whispers in her ear, "I would like to dance with you again, my dear. The last time at the gala was quite enjoyable."
Ginny bites her lip and looks around, "Where's the music?"
Arman looks up and notices the speakers in the room. He calls for Leonard.
Lenny walks upstairs and asks, "Something the matter?"
Arman says, "We'd like some music, Leonard. And some...space."
Leonard calls for a few waiters and in a few minutes' time, they've cleared a portion of the first floor, leaving it open.
They also dim the lights a bit, to give the floor a romantic ambiance.
Arman nods as Lenny remotely activates the restaurant's robust (and very expensive!) sound system.
Lenny and the waiters leave the 2 be and head back downstairs.
Arman puts his arms around Ginny as he leads her to the open space.
He looks at the ceiling, waiting for the music to come on.
Ginny pulls him closer and their lips almost touch.
Arman smiles and gives her a quick peck.
The music starts. It's something generic and slow.
The 2 slowly begin their dance. Arman leads Ginny. They step together, side to side, and sway from side to side.
He takes her into his arms as they dance. As they spin and glide, he stares into her eyes. He sees her. And, she sees him.
These 2 are not just co-conspirators playing a dangerous game anymore. They're something more. Something...different.
Bloodstained lovers.
Or perhaps one is using the other for their own selfish gain. Maybe the other is doing the exact same thing?
There's a chance that the other is a willing participant in this...scheme? Could it simply be that the other is just an unwilling victim?
Who knows...
But, tonight, however, Arman and Ginny appear to be enamored with each other. And they seem to be enjoying themselves. Maybe, for now, that's all that matters.
Right?
Arman and Ginny continue dancing as the song goes on. Ginny eventually gets used to Arman's swift movements and spins. She follows him without missing too many beats. She seems to be enjoying herself.
Her eyes are locked on his. She's lost in his gaze. And he's lost in hers.
This gentle dance goes on for a good few minutes, with the music looping over and over again.
Eventually, they stop while the music continues. They look at each other and head back in to the VIP room.
They plop themselves onto the couch and breathe out. Their clothes are slightly disheveled and their hair is a bit messed up.
They sit close to each other and begin talking again.
Ginny asks, "Y'know, I never did get your last name, Arman."
Arman warmly smiles, "Go on, take a guess, my dear."
Ginny scratches her ear, "Um...Arman Jindal? Y'know like that guy who's also Indian???"
Arman struggles to hold back a snicker, "No, my dear. Try again." He's still smiling.
Ginny thinks for a bit, "Um...Arman Haley?"
Arman bursts out into laughter.
Ginny frowns and sighs, "OK, I give up. What is it?"
"Rajakrishnan. Arman Rajakrishnan."
Ginny stammers as she struggles to pronounce his last name.
He gently guides her, "It can be quite...tough to pronounce. Which is why I rarely use it. Amongst other reasons."
He says, "Cut it up and start slowly: 'Raja'."
"Raja."
"Krish"
"Krish"
"Nan"
"Nan"
"Raja-krish-nan. There, simple, isn't it?"
"R--Raja-krish-nan." She furrows her brow, still struggling to pronounce his last name.
Arman nods, "That will suffice for now, Ginny." He gently places his hand on her cheek.
Ginny says, "Y'know, my last name's a whole lot simpler."
"Ah, yes. It's ironic isn't it? We've known each other for...quite some time now. Then again, what is 'time' to a Kindred?" He chuckles as his voice trails off.
Ginny shakes her head, "It's Bane."
Arman narrows his eyes, "Ginny Bane?"
Ginny chuckles, "Actually, 'Ginny' is more of a...nickname. My real name's Virginia. Virginia Bane."
Arman nods and teases her, "Virginia Bane. I can imagine that's what your...stained overalls said." He laughs.
Ginny winces, "That was a long time ago, Arman. I'm done with that...life." She sounds...bitter.
Arman holds her hand, "I'm sorry, my dear. I didn't mean to bring up any...unpleasant memories." He looks at her for a few moments.
She looks at him, "I mean, I still know about cars and shit, but I'm done with that life. I'm not gonna be a mechanic ever again. I'm gonna be...something else. S--Someone else."
Arman nods, "Yes. You have certainly proven to be capable of so much more, Virginia. And you're going to do great things," he reassuringly smiles at her.
Ginny looks away and raises her head a bit, "I wanna see the year 2100, Arman. Which is why we're doing what we're doing here, right? So, I can get to where I wanna go?"
Arman smiles, "And where is that, my dear?"
Ginny looks at him and smiles, "You'll see. Some place...nice."
Arman has a puzzled expression on his face, "You don't intend to stay in Plaintry for long? This town has been good to us, so far. Why would you want to leave?"
Ginny's smile fades, "Because, I wanna see what it's like out there. Make contact with other Kindred. See the sights, y'know?"
She adds, "Besides, it's getting...tiring around here. Monotonous, I guess. Heh. I also don't like seeing this town crawling with Feds."
Arman reassures her, "Their presence in this town is only temporary."
She presses her date, "How exactly are we gonna deal with the SI and its lackeys anyway? You gonna unleash the Garou on them, too? I'd actually be down with that."
Arman replies, "No, my dear. I'm afraid that would be...counterproductive, unpredictable, and very very messy. The SI outnumber our Garou 'friends'."
He lowers his voice, "Besides, I don't intend for those...dogs to live much longer."
Ginny raises an eyebrow, "Oh?"
Arman explains, "I have...plans in place, my dear. You needn't worry about a thing. Just do your part and I'll take care of the rest."
Ginny snickers, "Well, I'm glad you're on our side, Arman."
Arman chuckles, "I, too, am a survivor. Even I plan to see the year 2100. Perhaps even beyond that."
He looks at Ginny, "With our Childer, and perhaps their Childer by our side, we can make a name for ourselves."
Ginny says, "So, what's the plan then? What's the next step?"
Arman strokes his chin, "Speak to the Malkavian. Get to know her. And then, we'll figure out how to deal with the SI. The Tremere, too."
Ginny asks, "What about that 'Memphis Green' operation??"
Arman looks away and shrugs, "Bernice's parents are connected to the alphabet agencies. Secure their freedom. Get their help. If we can get them on our side, that would be a great boon. But, if not, well..." he trails off.
He looks at Ginny, "...We'll just have to think of something more drastic." He sees her get excited at the mention of "drastic".
He continues, "As for the Prince's Clan, Ravnos, well, we can simply use them as pawns in our game. They're already fragmented due to their Clan Curse. We'll just use them to our advantage."
Ginny insistently asks, "And, what about the Tremere? What about that redhead bitch?"
Arman grimly smiles, "Lenny and I will deal with her. Don't you worry, Ginny. And, yes, I intend to pay back your $125,000. Every last cent."
Ginny smirks, "Yeah, I'm sure you do." She playfully nudges him.
Ginny asks, "So, you're really gonna buy that joint, huh?"
Arman nods, looking a bit indifferent over the whole thing, "It's a decent investment. Besides, it's not like I can't afford it."
He continues, "8 million from me. 6 million from Leonard. Once Camden's out of the way, that is."
Ginny asks, "You need help wasting that clown?"
Arman laughs, "I appreciate the offer, my dear. But, I think I can handle him myself." He gives her a smug look.
She shrugs, "Sure. Well, what now?"
Arman looks at his watch, "It's too early to get our...portrait done. He can wait for us. It's what I paid him for."
He looks at Ginny, "Shall we...continue our conversation?"
Ginny shrugs, "Sure. As long as you do most of the talking."
And so they spend the next few hours in the VIP room, talking.
About stuff- Unlife, life, personal matters, matters of the heart, business, their plans, and everything in between.
They talk and laugh and share stories.
And the night grows old.
Until, finally, Arman gets up and takes out his phone. It's 12:57 AM.
Arman pats his pants. Ginny plays around with her hair and dress.
Lenny walks upstairs and points to his watch.
Arman politely nods, "It's time for us to leave. My, how time flies, hmm?" he chuckles.
Leonard smiles, "Would you like me to...call you a cab, or perhaps--"
Ginny cuts him off, "Nah." She pulls her car keys from her golden purse and playfully twirls them around, "I'm drivin'."
Arman laughs and takes his date by the arm. They walk downstairs.
Lenny walks the 2 out the front door. He firmly shakes Arman's hand, "Thanks for not making a mess, Arman."
He turns to Ginny, "Tell your Lasombra buddies they're welcome to The Gastronova. As long as they got the money, I can provide...the meat."
Ginny and Arman chuckle.
Lenny then says, "Have fun, you 2."
Arman waves goodbye as he gets in the passenger seat of Ginny's car.
It's a silver first generation Audi A4 Sedan (pre-facelift). Ginny's probably modified the car in some way or the other.
Arman looks around the car and remarks, "I take it you've...made some changes to this vehicle."
Ginny nods, "Mm-hmm. Plenty."
Ginny starts the car up and speeds off.
Arman gives her directions to where that street artist is supposed to be waiting for them. He really wants to have her drawn.
They arrive at the location.
It's empty this time of the night. The benches and the sidewalk are empty. The shops and restaurants are all closed. It's dark and quite desolate this time of night.
The street lights flicker for a few moments. One of the bulbs short out, casting a shadow on the street.
Ginny shrugs and stops the car. She parks it in front of a shuttered plant and garden shop. She turns off the car and gets out.
Arman joins her and closes the door behind him. He looks around and checks his watch once more.
Ginny gruffly asks, "Heh. Where's this...street artist at, anyway?"
Arman replies, "I suspect he's around here. I TOLD him to wait for me. Pfft." He sounds a bit annoyed.
Arman walks up and down the sidewalk, peering into the dark alleyways and into the small park.
Ginny points to a figure under the street light, reclining on a bench. His arms are crossed and his legs are stretched out. He looks...restless. Maybe even bored?
Arman sighs a sigh of relief, "Yes. That's him." He turns to Ginny, "Shall we, my dear?"
Ginny holds Arman's cold hand and they walk to the man. He seems a bit surprised as the 2 approach him.
This street artist is in his late 60s. He's wearing a black turtleneck and a pair of faded linen pants. His grey hair is messy and covers his ears. His brown eyes are droopy and are surrounded by heavy bags. He looks tired. He's also wearing a gold chain.
He sluggishly stands up, "Goddamn! It's about time you showed up--"
Arman firmly clears his throat.
The street artist stops himself and goes to get his things which he kept beside a nearby tree. He then sits down at his easel.
He gets a sketchbook, a box of pencils, and a set of charcoal sticks. He opens his box of pencils, picks out a few, and then grabs the charcoal sticks.
Ginny sits down on the bench next to Arman. He whispers to her, "Don't worry. He knows what he's doing." He strokes her cheek.
The street artist speaks up, "Just sit down, keep the talking to a minimum, and don't twitch or move your head too much."
Arman and Ginny easily do as they are told. They sit still, like a couple of mannequins. Arman even crosses his legs and proudly raises his chin.
Ginny gives a sideways glance.
The street artist begins his work. First, he sketches out the entire background, making sure to draw the shadows and the surrounding buildings.
From there, he slowly proceeds to drawing their outlines. He eyes them from head to toe, muttering something or the other to himself. He nods and continues sketching.
He works very, very fast. With speed, precision, and a practiced hand, he creates the outline of each person.
He asks, "So, how long you 2 been dating?"
Arman softly chuckles, "Is it that obvious? I mean--"
Ginny interjects, "We've known each other quite some time now. So, y'know, it's kinda hard to tell."
The street artist smirks, "Yeah. That's how it usually goes. One thing you know, they're just a fellow student. Next thing, you're saying 'I do' in front of hundreds of strangers."
Arman frowns, "Yes. You seem to be a very insightful man, Mr.--"
"Green. Blake Green. And you are?"
"Arman. And this here is Ginny."
The street artist looks up from his work, "Ginny? I got a daughter named Ginny. She's doing her Master's at Flimont City, if you can believe it."
Arman laughs, "It's a beautiful name, isn't it?"
Blake agrees, "Yep. Virginia. Ginny. My wife was the one who named her."
Arman nods, "A fine name for a fine woman."
Blake looks down and continues, "Hmmm. Yep. Now, no twitching. This part's...delicate." He begins shading, making the people's skin look more real.
Arman and Ginny oblige. They sit there and keep still.
Ginny eventually asks, "So, how long you been drawing people, Blake?"
Blake dryly replies, "This...is just a thing I do for some extra cash. Wife's got cancer and there's no cure. I'm all she's got. I can't keep a steady job at my age, so, I...draw." He goes back to his work.
He mildly groans and shakes his head, "So, how could I say 'no' when your boyfriend here showed up and offered me 400 bucks to draw you 2 in the middle of the goddamn night?"
Arman whispers to Ginny, "I told you...I can be very persuasive."
Ginny places her hand on Arman's thigh and gives him a suggestive look.
Blake calls out, "Hey! Cut it off, you 2. Sheesh. You're ruining the drawing. You want this done right or not?" He continues working.
Ginny smirks at Arman, who seems a bit embarrassed.
Arman asks, "Do you do...nude drawings, Mr. Blake?"
Blake doesn't seem too unfazed by that question, "I used to. Back at The University Of Plaintry. Um...why?"
Arman replies, "Oh, no reason. The University Of Plaintry, you say? Are you a graduate?"
Blake laughs, "Hell yeah! Graduated with an above-average grade and a Bachelor's degree in Fine Art."
He looks at Ginny and then back at Arman, "I've been drawing for as long as I can remember. Even met my wife and got married while at the UOP."
He looks to the side, as if reminiscing, "Damn. I miss that fuckin' place. Would have sent Ginny there if it were still around. Stupid fuckin' McMahons and their holier-than-thou bullshit."
Arman raises an eyebrow, "What exactly happened?"
Blake sharply exhales, "Long, and I mean LONG, fucking story. All I know is they did Professor Calhoun dirty. He was a great guy. Wanted to give us an appreciation of the arts and stuff."
He draws for a few moments before continuing, "Well, he got fired for allegedly having an affair with a..." he furrows his brows as he tries to remember, "...yep, a foreign exchange student or something like that."
Arman leans forward, "Is that so? How...long ago was this?"
Blake sighs, "About 30-ish years ago."
Arman smiles, "I see. Interesting, most interesting." He sits back.
Blake continues his work, "Once those scandalmongering McMahons got wind of what was going on, they pounced like a pack of hungry dogs. They said he was teaching the students nasty things. And that the UOP as a whole was an unholy institution."
He chuckles, "So, they dragged him in front of the board. Got him fired and the University closed down soon after. They had the gall to say the UOP was a 'vile and perverse institution corrupting the minds of America's youth.'"
He grunts as he pulls out some pencils from the box, "When I last saw Professor Geoffrey Calhoun, he was a fucking wreck."
Ginny asks, "What about the exchange student?"
Blake replies, "That's the wild part. Rumors at the time suggested she was pregnant. If I recall correctly, she was some redhead chick from the uh...Netherlands, or wherever."
Ginny's eyes widen and Arman raises an eyebrow, "Oh? A...redhead? Are you certain?"
Blake looks up from his work, "Look, it was 30+ years ago--"
Arman asks, "Did she keep the baby?"
Blake shrugs, "Hell if I know. Maybe, maybe not. Why?"
Arman gives Ginny a knowing look before replying, "Oh, no reason. Just...simple curiosity."
Blake intently returns to his work, "Yeah, nuff yapping. I'm doing your lips now, so keep 'em closed."
Ginny smirks at Arman, who seems amused (and intrigued by what he's heard).
Blake spends the next few or so minutes at work. Words are rarely exchanged as he puts his all into this drawing of Arman and Ginny.
45 minutes later, Blake has finished. He packs his things and says, "Alright, here's the deal. I give you your portrait and I'm out. It's waaaay past my bedtime and my wife must be worried sick."
He hands Arman the portrait. It's a stunning portrait of a couple sitting on the bench. The intricate background details and the starry sky behind them give the portrait an almost surreal, yet romantic look.
Arman hands Ginny the portrait and tells Blake, "This is for her, actually."
Ginny looks at the portrait and looks at her face as drawn by Blake. Her lips quiver, "Th--Thanks, Blake. You're pretty damn good."
Blake nods, "Mm-hmm. Will there be anything else?"
Arman replies, "No. That is all. However, I would like to know more about this...Professor of yours and everything surrounding what happened at the University Of Plaintry 30 years ago."
Blake takes the base of his neck, "Y'know, I once saw something really weird. Um...years ago."
Ginny's too busy admiring the portrait of her and Arman.
It's been a while since she's seen her own face. The Lasombra Clan Curse distorts her image in front of anything from mirrors to cameras (even the old polaroid ones!).
Arman asks, "'Weird'? How so?"
Blake shrugs, "Eh, it's probably nothing."
Arman firmly states, "I insist, Mr. Blake."
Blake winces, "Fine. Fine. I saw Professor Calhoun outside a nightclub downtown one night. He was just standing there with his hands in his pockets. It was really late. Weird part is...he looked the same."
Ginny asks, "'Looked the same' how?"
Blake's eyes widen, "Like he hadn't aged a day since I last saw him back in the 80s! It was fucking weird a--and kinda scary. Maybe it was someone else..." he shrugs as his voice trails off.
But Arman and Ginny now know who EXACTLY that is (or was). Geoffrey Calhoun. Clan Toreador. Former Prince of Plaintry.
Met Final Death at the sword of Sheriff Eunice.
The 2 vampires glance at one another.
Blake goes on, "I saw him talking to a cop. She seemed pretty aloof, but I didn't get a good look at her."
Arman says, "Very interesting. Anyway, thank you for your time, Mr. Green."
Arman extends his cold hand, which Blake firmly shakes. Blake nods. He says goodbye, and goes off. He leaves the 2 be. They're left alone under the streetlight.
Ginny looks at her date, "So, now what?"
Arman smiles and takes a good look around, "The night is still young, my dear."
She shows him the drawing and remarks, "It's quite amazing, isn't it?"
He warmly replies, "Yes. See how beautiful you look, Ginny? You're stunning. Truly." He gives her a gentle, reassuring look.
She shyly smiles, "I am, aren't I?" She touches her cheek. She feels the blood rushing to her face. She's...blushing.
Ginny then says, "Let's get outta here and you...outta that tux." She gives her date a mischievous look.
Arman softly chuckles, "It has...been a while since I've--"
She playfully teases, "What? Had sex?"
Arman looks a bit embarrassed, "Yes. The last time was during my visit to Dubai almost a decade ago..." He debates telling her more, but decides against it.
Ginny gets in the car and waits for Arman. He sits beside her, and the 2 drive off.
As the car speeds down the (mostly) empty streets of Plaintry, Arman thinks back to what Blake told him and Ginny.
The duo get to talking about it.
Ginny mostly nods along while Arman does most of the talking.
Arman turns off his phone as he won't be needing it for the rest of the night. Ginny snickers.
He continues, "So, it's certainly a possibility that she...is his daughter. The timeframe seems to lineup."
Ginny shrugs, "Not like it makes a difference. It doesn't mean she has the right to take Praxis, right? RIGHT?!"
"No, she has no right whatsoever. Thankfully."
Arman sighs, "But the implications of this info are not...ideal. She could pose a threat to our plans--"
"What if we told her?"
Arman gives Ginny a surprised look, "God no, Ginny! Information like this is NOT meant to be thrown around."
"What if we had her on our side?"
Arman laughs, "How exactly would we get someone like HER on our side, my dear? She's already proven to be quite...timid, volatile, and VERY emotional."
"I know, but we need to do something about her, Arman."
Arman calms her down, "And we will, Ginny. We will."
Ginny scoffs, "You really think that plan's gonna pan out?"
Arman calmly responds, "She needs a job, my dear. And after what she's done, no company will hire her. That video has already gone viral."
Ginny furrows her brow, "Hmph. Tell me about it."
Arman chuckles, "Actually, some of the remixes of those 2 arguing are quite...hilarious."
"Yeah, well, I didn't think she'd be that...nuts. I mean, she was just some nobody writer."
"And yet, she might be more than that."
"Ya think she'll ever find out on her own?"
"Find out what, my dear?"
"About who daddy and mommy might be?"
Arman shrugs indifferently, "Who knows? It's not important, Ginny. We have bigger fish to fry."
He goes on, "Anyway, I suggest we focus on the Malkavian. Sheriff Eunice has to be made to see things our way."
"So, what's your plan, anyway?"
"You'll...have a word with her. Talk her into our side, if possible. Try to connect with her. I believe she recently lost her husband, didn't she?"
"Yeah, she did. What's that got to do with anything?"
"I recall you telling me that she's a 'stone-cold bitch' who'd 'kill her own kid for the right price.'"
Ginny chuckles, "Yeah. Gotta love small town cops; they know how to play the game."
Arman smiles, "Exactly. The Sheriff is clearly a determined woman. Convince her that Lucas is simply not the right fit as Prince. There's a strong case to be made there."
Ginny frowns, "I don't think she's gonna be too swayed by that alone, Arman. Malkavians are uh...yeah, they're not the best at that kind of stuff."
"Hmm. Yes, I've...heard stories about them. Still, she may be persuaded if we play our cards right. Talking to her as a first step won't hurt."
Ginny looks at Arman and nods, "Ehh, yeah. I'll set something up this week."
Arman smiles at her, "Good."
Ginny asks, "So, playboy, when's the last time you...got laid?"
That question came out of nowhere. Arman gulps and nervously chuckles, "Ah, well. A while, my dear. A while."
Ginny's eyes widen, "A while, huh?" She's obviously a bit...surprised.
Arman clears his throat, "I'm usually very busy, Ginny. My businesses, Clan affairs, and whatnot."
Ginny directly asks, "And where do you see...'us' going?"
Arman seems taken aback by that question, "Why, I'd hope for something long-term. What about you, Ginny?"
Ginny says, "Yeah, I'm done with the whole hook up thing for now."
Arman says, "Yes. It's a very...fleeting, ephemeral thing for us Kindred. One must find something...lasting."
Ginny nods, "Long-lasting. Yeah."
Arman smiles and says, "Indeed."
Ginny asks, "So, what do we do with all that juicy stuff Blake told us?"
Arman indifferently says, "Nothing. We simply keep it to ourselves. Should she prove to be trouble in the near future, then we'll take action."
"That's all??"
"Yes. For now. We have a plan, my dear. We mustn't deviate from it. Not when we are so close to achieving our goals." There is a certain finality in his voice. There's a hungriness in his dead eyes.
Ginny agrees, "Fair enough. Besides, it's mostly speculation, right?"
Arman says, "Yes, but how many 30 year old redheads do you know in this town??"
Ginny shrugs, "Ehh, good point."
She turns her gaze to the road and puts her foot on the pedal. She speeds off.
The two remain silent for a bit as the car speeds down the darkened streets, back to Ginny's Haven.
They drive through the mostly empty, desolate streets. The occasional car passes them by.
The moon hangs high in the starry night sky, bathing the town in its soft glow. It's a lovely sight.
It's a lovely night.
The 2 speak about other matters. Ginny learns that Arman spent 18 months in Dubai a decade or so ago.
Ginny laughs and says, "You really gotta stop buying things, man!"
Arman laughs, "I do not buy things. I merely...invest."
He explains, "I have in more than one way developed a taste for the rarefied things on offer."
Ginny teases, "That's an understatement."
Soon enough, the 2 arrive at Ginny's Haven. Ginny parks her car and the 2 walk up to her front door.
Ginny looks at Arman from head to toe and bites her lip. Arman feels yet another tingling sensation...down there.
He flashes her a quick smile as she hastily pulls out her keys and unlocks her front door.
Arman spends a few seconds admiring the $400 portrait before heading inside.
The lights are off. Ginny flicks a switch and stifles a groan as the lights slowly turn on.
The living room is decent enough. No TV. The thick blackout curtains are drawn. The couch is a bit messy. The coffee table is empty.
The kitchen is just as barren. Arman asks, "Any issues with the paperwork for this lovely house?"
Ginny replies, "Why?"
"Ahh, I might know some Malkavians in the Cayman Islands who are good with documents."
Ginny turns around, "I might have some issues. Especially with the Property Taxes."
Arman tells her, "The amount of Kindred who have been found out and destroyed due to tax issues is hilariously staggering."
"Really?"
"Mmm-hmm."
Arman goes on, "But, my friends in the Cayman Islands can help. Free of charge, of course."
Ginny narrows her eyes, "How'd you get a buncha Lunatics to do anythin' for free, anyway?"
Arman chuckles, "One must make sacrifices to get ahead in Unlife, Ginny. But, yes, that is one of the benefits of being a Ventrue. Especially a well-connected one with a Sire whose very name commands respect."
He looks at her, "My dear, would you mind terribly if I make myself...comfortable?"
Ginny smirks, "Mi casa es su casa (ES: My house is your house)."
Arman takes off his tuxedo jacket and sits on the couch. He also unbuttons the top buttons of his shirt and throws his head back.
Ginny sits next to him and watches as he takes a good look around the place. She asks, "You wanna see the first floor?" She's hinting at...something more. There's an undertone in her voice.
Arman asks, "Do you speak Spanish, Ginny?"
Ginny replies, "Heh. A bit, yep. A lotta Lasombra actually come from Spain, y'know. Anyway, you wanna go up or not?" Her eyes are fixed on him. There's a certain intensity in her gaze.
Arman sits up, "I do, my dear, but...it's been a while."
Ginny shrugs, "Just show a lady a good time, OK?" She gives him a teasing, yet flirty look.
She takes him by the hand and leads him upstairs to her bedroom.
Ginny's bedroom is quite well-kept and spacious. The queen sized bed is set against the off-white wall. The windows are draped with thick blackout curtains, which gives the room a bit of a dark, almost foreboding air.
There's a desk in the corner that's full of papers, inkwells, and other writing implements. Arman supposes that Ginny spends her evenings writing something or the other.
There's no mirrors in the room at all. The lighting is soft, almost somber. A few old paintings dot the walls of her room.
The bed is not entirely messy. The sheets are soft and blue. The pillows look a bit hard, however. There's a small nightstand beside the bed with an analogue alarm clock. An antique piece, by the looks of it.
Ginny locks the door behind them and walks up to the bed. She stands near the edge, still holding Arman's cold hand which has started to slightly tremble, likely in anticipation of what is to come.
She looks up at him. She moves closer to him and brushes his hair back. She looks him in the eyes, staring at him. She sees her horribly distorted reflection in his dead eyes.
She takes a deep breath and whispers, "I want you Arman."
Arman gently replies, "I want you too, Ginny."
Ginny plants a kiss on his lips. She pulls herself closer, deepening the kiss.
Arman, still locked in the kiss, lifts her up. His lips still pressed against hers, he sits her down on the bed. Ginny squeals as she's laid on the bed. Arman breaks the kiss and looks down at her, his pupils dilated.
She playfully smirks up at him, places her hands on his cheeks, and kisses him again.
Arman's body rubs up against hers as they continue kissing. She wraps her arms around him and pulls him down with her onto the bed. She feels his cold body, cold skin against her own cold body and skin.
They continue kissing as Arman's hands move down to Ginny's breasts. He squeezes them, causing Ginny to squirm under him. She moans in his mouth.
Arman helps Ginny get out of her dress. She flings it to the side and seductively licks her lips as she leans forward and starts unbuttoning Arman's shirt. Her nimble fingers make quick work of the buttons. Soon, the shirt is completely unbuttoned and on the floor.
Arman quickly takes off his vest and tosses it aside, revealing his bare chest. He then gets back in and the 2 continue kissing. His cold hands roam all over her body. He gropes her breasts and feels her up.
Ginny lets out a soft moan as he unhooks her bra. She slips out of it and reveals her breasts to Arman.
He proceeds to lick and suck on her breasts. She giggles a bit as he does so.
Ginny leans back as she feels his cold hands roam all over her body. She lets out a moan as he rubs her inner thighs. His fingers gently caress her while his lips and tongue toy with her nipples.
She runs her hands through his hair as he kisses his way up to her neck.
Her hands make quick work of his belt. She wildly tosses it to the side. Her fingers then deftly unzip his pants. She pushes him back a bit as she eagerly pulls his pants down.
Arman looks down at his bulging briefs, "Wow. I didn't even know th--that was still possible after all these years."
Ginny licks her lips as she reaches for his briefs. She pulls them down. Arman's cock springs free. He's a bit...soft, but hard enough for what's to come.
Ginny huskily says, "Sit back and relax, pretty boy."
And so the rest of their night (soon approaching day) is spent in this...romantic encounter.
Many hours prior...
Maya awakens from her day-sleep. She groans and rubs her eyes. She turns over and finds the bed empty.
Lucile's absence (although temporary) is already becoming apparent. Maya's undead heart sinks a bit.
She stays where she is for a bit, looking up at the ceiling and just thinking how crazy these past few nights have been. And how crazy last night was.
The Garou attack on Frank and the other Ravnos at the garage still leaves her feeling uneasy. But, for now, she has to focus on her tasks for tonight.
And so she gets up, takes a shower, and prepares for the night ahead.
That all too familiar feeling of The Hunger comes back as Maya leaves her room and goes upstairs to the living room.
She takes her phone out and spends a few minutes idly scrolling through her music playlist, looking for something to listen to.
But no amount of music can ease the the eternal demands of The Beast. It's starting to resemble a storm is raging in her head.
She plops herself on the couch and blows a raspberry, "Ugh. So lonely...So, so lonely. I wish she was still here. I wish we could just...get lost together."
Suddenly, she feels something in the back of her mind. She feels compelled to contact Lucile through the way they agreed. So, she immediately opens her laptop and clicks on the link that was given to her.
She stares at her own reflection as she is redirected to a strange webpage.
"CONNECTING..."
Eventually, she's in. She's given a random avatar and username. The webcam comes on and she sees herself. Her red hair is disheveled. Her face looks fresh enough, albeit a bit pale.
She waits. And waits.
Eventually, another random avatar and username enters the session. Lucile's face comes on the screen. She's sitting on a bed and her brown hair is a mess. She looks like she just woke up from her day-sleep.
Maya's eyes light up at the sight of Lucile's face, "Lucile! I was hoping you'd be online. I missed you!"
Lucile smiles, "My poinsettia. I missed you, too."
Maya sighs in relief, "I had this feeling that I should get online and connect."
Lucile chuckles, "Heh, I was just about to contact you. I was hoping you'd be online."
Maya asks, "How are you holding up, Lucile?"
Lucile nods her head, "Eh, good enough. I'm in some dingy BNB a few towns over. It's alright. I just gotta wait around for further instructions. Then, it's on."
"Oh? What is it?"
"Another delivery, I guess. Dunno where yet."
"Anything...bad happen to you?" Maya asks, genuinely concerned about her.
"Nope. Not yet. Been quiet so far."
Maya asks, "How did I know when to come online and get in touch?"
Lucile shrugs, "Maybe your Auspex triggered due to thinking about me. Maybe it's the effects of the...Blood Bond we initiated. Or maybe it's something else. But, don't worry about it. That's a discussion for another time, sweetie."
Maya nods, "Yeah. Still a lot I gotta learn and a lot more I gotta get used to."
The timer slowly counts down.
Maya sighs and says, "A lot happened the night you left. I doubt I have much time to tell you everything, but--"
Lucile interjects as a concerned look comes across her face, "Are YOU OK, Maya?"
Maya chuckles, "I'm fine. But, it seems we have Garou in our town."
"Ohhhhh, OK. Eleanor told me about The Garou Nation a while back. I couldn't believe werewolves were actually real, too."
Maya snorts, "Crazy, huh."
"Yeah. Did you see them or something?"
"Nope. But it's a long story, Lucile. I...I just miss you so freaking much."
"I miss you too, Maya."
The timer is on its last few seconds.
Maya bites her lip, "I love you, Lucile. Stay safe out there, OK?"
Lucile warmly smiles, "I will. You stay safe, too, Maya. I love you."
"B...Bye."
The timer ends and the feed goes offline.
Maya sighs as a disappointed look comes across her face. 90 seconds. 90 seconds to talk to Lucile every night.
It's just not enough time. She closes the laptop lid as a few tears of blood roll down her cheeks.
Maya wipes her face and dryly says, "I should probably get ready for tonight."
She stands up and walks over to the window. She opens it to let some fresh air in.
She stretches as her thoughts drift off.
Maya then goes back downstairs and combs her hair. She runs the comb through her long, red hair, which reaches down to her shoulders. She looks in the mirror and smiles at her reflection.
She goes back upstairs and grabs her bike keys. She wants to get used to riding her old Vespa again.
Her first task (as given to her by Prince Lucas) for tonight involves looking more into the place where that Caitiff courier was destroyed.
Her second task will have her (likely) working with Sheriff Eunice to investigate the Garou attack on the garage and their reasons for attacking the Ravnos.
As Maya grabs the house keys, she hears an SUV pulling up.
She then hears a loud knock on the door. She furrows her brow and walks to the front door. She opens it.
There's her Sire, Eleanor, standing there. She's wearing a black ankle-length skirt and a beige blouse. Her grey hair is tied back into a bun. She's carrying a small bag.
Maya gives her a confused look, "Eleanor? What are you doing here?"
Eleanor simply asks, "May I come in, Childe?"
Maya chuckles and welcomes Eleanor in, "Of course, of course."
Eleanor sits on the sofa and Maya sits next to her.
Eleanor starts by asking, "How fares your training so far, Maya?"
Maya shrugs, "I haven't had as much time as I'd like but I'm slowly getting the hang of things."
Eleanor nods, "Good. Very good. Auspex is a wise choice of Discipline for you, Maya. It's also a very powerful ability to use in our line of work."
Maya's eyes widen, "You think so?"
Eleanor replies, "Yes."
Maya lowers her head, "I...uh...miss Lucile. A lot."
She looks up at Eleanor, "She's gonna be OK, right?" Maya wants the reassurance of her Sire on this.
Eleanor softly says, "She is an excellent Blood Sorceress and her Thaumaturgy skills are quite remarkable for a Neonate. I am confident that she WILL be fine." She places her hand on Maya's shoulder.
Maya smiles, "Thank you, Eleanor. I--I needed to hear that."
Eleanor goes on, "There are some matters we must attend to tonight, however."
"Oh, really? Like...?"
"For starters, I would like for you to meet Miss Nolene. However, she is not of our particular Tremere Society. She is of House Goratrix."
Maya asks, "Cool, cool. So, what's she like?"
"I believe her to be a capable woman."
Maya asks, "So, you won't be teaching me from now on? Nolene is gonna be my teacher or something?"
Eleanor replies, "Not entirely. I will still be teaching you, Maya. It is the responsibility of Sire to Childe. I am merely...getting assistance."
Maya nervously touches the base of her neck, "Am I a uh...tough student, Eleanor?"
Eleanor softly laughs, "You are a quick learner, Maya. That much is certain. You are also quite intelligent, I will give you that--"
Maya says, "I sense a 'but' coming."
Eleanor nods, "But, you are still a Fledgling. There is also the matter of your emotions, Maya. Us Tremere must remain focused at all times. We cannot let our emotions cloud our judgment. Do you understand this?"
Maya replies, "I'll try to keep that in mind. The last few nights have been great, but they've been a bit...tough, too." She looks down.
Eleanor sighs, "You still have not gotten over that...argument with that friend of yours. What was her name..." Eleanor's voice trails off as she tries to recall the name.
Maya lets out a low growl, "Annette. I...I don't want anything to with her. Ever again."
Eleanor replies, "Even I have seen that video, Maya. It could have been wor--"
Maya raises her hands up (only slightly), "Can we please not talk about this, Eleanor. Not right now. N--Not ever. I'm done with her."
Eleanor nods, "Hmph. Very well. For now, we shall focus on our immediate plans for tonight."
Maya asks, "So, what's the plan?"
Eleanor asks, "Has the Prince given you any assignments yet?"
Maya nods her head, "Yep. 2 of 'em. One- look around the place where that Caitiff courier got destroyed."
Maya pauses for a moment.
Eleanor asks, "And what is the second task?"
"Investigate the Garou attack on the garage."
Eleanor frowns, "Hmm. A bit much to ask of a Fledgling, but that is the way it is. You are capable of carrying these tasks out, yes?"
Maya sheepishly nods. She's not sure if there's anything to turn up for the first task and she has absolutely zero idea on how to investigate the Garou attack (where does she even begin?!).
Eleanor notices Maya's distress, "You must learn to banish doubt and uncertainty from your mind, Childe. Also, I needn't remind you of our Clan's Compulsion for Perfectionism, do I?"
Maya responds, "I know, Eleanor. I'm sorry. It's just gonna be hard. I mean, no offence, you're great and all, but Lucile is so much better at reassuring me and stuff."
Eleanor calmly (yet firmly) says, "I have no doubt that she is. But, her duties to the Ivory Tower come first. And so does yours. Now, I can help you further hone your Auspex Discipline. You will undoubtedly need it for the--"
"Time of my Proving. Yeah, I know. Lucile told me about that."
Eleanor sighs, "Hmm."
Maya asks, "How did Lucile do at her Proving?"
Eleanor approvingly says, "Exceptionally well, Maya. She was able to make a stiletto out of her own Vitae."
Maya smiles, "Yep. She showed it to me before she left. You think I'll be able to do that one night?"
Eleanor nods, "I believe so. But, I will not lie to you, it is a difficult undertaking. It takes years of practice to achieve that level of mastery over the Blood."
Maya blandly says, "We got time. We're Kindred after all. Heh."
Eleanor narrows her eyes, "Something is troubling you, Maya. What is it?"
Maya sharply exhales, "You mean apart from my girlfriend being whisked away for courier duty? Or the fact that I can't show my face around town because of--"
She stops herself as she chokes up a bit, "--I'm not like you and Lucile. I'm not super smart or...or whatever. I'm just...me. I was a lifestyle writer for a dying magazine in a small town. Now, I don't even have that anymore."
A few tears of blood roll down Maya's cheeks.
"You mustn't be so harsh, Maya. That was your previous life. The Embrace has given you an opportunity to become more than you ever were."
Maya says, "I know. I'm sorry. I'm just scared. I just don't wanna mess this up."
Eleanor places her hand on Maya's back, "And you won't, Childe. You must be strong. Stronger than you ever were. You are a Tremere now. A member of one of the most prestigious Clans of Kindred Society."
"'Prestigious'? I thought that kind of honor was reserved for Clans Ventrue or Toreador?"
Eleanor dismissively waves her hand, "The Pyramid commands respect wherever it goes."
Maya asks, "What about the others?"
Eleanor replies, "They have their place. But that is not your concern. For now, you MUST focus. Not only on your training but also the tasks given to you by Prince Lucas. If you fail him, then you fail us all."
Maya gulps, "O--OK. I'll try my best."
Eleanor says, "That is all I ask of you, Childe. Now, come, let us go and visit Nolene. She will undoubtedly be glad to see a fresh face."
Maya rubs her chin, "Why didn't we have this discussion on our way to meet Nolene?"
Eleanor bluntly states, "Because there are certain things that I do not wish to discuss in front of my driver, Laszlo."
Maya asks, "Is uh...Laszlo just your driver or is he like your Ghoul or something?"
Eleanor grimaces, "Ghoul? I have already made my position on such creatures clear, Childe. They are nothing but volatile and unpredictable. No, Laszlo is simply my driver. That is all."
Maya asks, "But, he's a mortal. Aren't you worried about, like, a potential Masquerade breach or something?"
Eleanor firmly replies, "My personal affairs and how I conduct them are not your concern, Childe. Lucile never questioned my judgments; I expect you to follow her example."
Maya lowers her head and pensively says, "I'm sorry. It--It won't happen again, Eleanor."
No use arguing with your Sire. Especially an Elder like Eleanor.
Eleanor gives Maya a stern look, "Good. Now, let us go and meet Nolene."
Maya gets up and walks to the door. Eleanor follows suit.
Maya tosses her bike keys away, "Heh, guess I won't be needing these, huh? You have no problems driving me around tonight, Eleanor?"
"Laszlo will be the one doing the driving."
Maya chuckles, "I know, I know. Sorry."
Eleanor asks, "Did I tell you about the Tremere Code yet?"
Maya furrows her brows, "What? Um...no?"
"Hmm. 7 nights after your Embrace, you are to commit to the Tremere Code. It is a simple oath that binds us to our Clan. It is a sacred promise that we all must keep."
Maya nods, "OK. So, what is it? Do I have to do anything special or...?"
Eleanor vaguely says, "In time, Childe. In time. Now, come, let us not linger."
Maya nods and follows Eleanor out.
The 2 get into Eleanor's SUV. Maya sits in the passenger seat. Eleanor sits in the back.
Maya smiles at Laszlo, "Good evening!"
He smiles back as he starts the car, "Hi!"
Eleanor tells him, "The...occult shop, if you please."
Laszlo nods and the SUV drives off into the night. It's a silent drive. Traffic is a bit dense, so what would normally take 15 minutes took them 30-35 minutes to reach.
No words are exchanged. Maya just looks out the window as the night breeze blows through her hair.
Eventually, they arrive at this occult shop. Laszlo parks the car. Maya and Eleanor get out.
Eleanor says, "Nolene is of the Clan, but she is not of Children Of The Pyramid. You will do well to keep that in mind, Childe. As such, your interactions with her must remain strictly professional."
Maya replies, "Gotcha."
Eleanor opens the door and the 2 walk in.
The store itself is dimly lit and smells of incense. There are all sorts of curios, artifacts, and other oddities on display. The carpet is dark brown and quite old. The walls are painted in purple basil.
There's a counter with a cash register and a few shelves behind it. The shelves are stocked full of books, trinkets, and other strange objects. There's also a glass cabinet that contains various occult paraphernalia.
There's a door to the backroom, which is slightly ajar.
Maya taps on the call bell a few times. Eleanor simply shakes her head.
A few moments pass and a Nolene comes out from the backroom. She's wearing a long black dress with flower patterns. Her afro hair is luscious. She's got some tattoos on her dark skin.
She's tall and slender. Her eyes are hazel. She greets the duo with a warm smile on her face.
Maya extends her hand, "Hi! I'm Maya."
"Nice to meet you. I'm Nolene and welcome to Nolene's Corner Of Curiosities!" Her voice is cheerful and energetic.
Maya likes her already.
Eleanor says, "Ms. Nolene. It is good to see you again. I trust that the...object is in a safe place?"
Nolene nods, "Yep. Locked away nice and tight. Ain't nobody getting to it."
Eleanor smiles, "Good."
Maya asks, "What object?"
Eleanor sighs, "That ritual dagger that somehow came into the possession of that Ravnos."
Maya nods, "Ah."
Nolene asks, "Would you 2 like anything to drink?"
Maya replies, "If you're offering what I think you're offering, then I won't say no."
She turns to Eleanor, "If it's OK with you, that is."
Eleanor gestures, "It is of no issue, but you must always be ready to hunt. Very few Kindred have the luxury of such offers."
Nolene chuckles, "I'll get you a cup of red, Maya."
She returns a few minutes later with a large coffee cup full of thick, red blood. One for her and one for Maya. Eleanor politely declines.
Maya holds the cup with both hands as she brings it up to her lips. The Beast in her rouses at the very smell of blood (even if it's not fresh and from the source).
She takes a sip and her eyes widen. She eagerly gulps it all down. Granted, it's not necessarily the tastiest thing she's ever had, but it satiates the Beast's eternal Hunger.
For now.
Some blood drips down Maya's chin. Nolene slowly sips on her cup of blood, savoring every single drop before swallowing more.
Eleanor asks, "So, how is business?"
Nolene shrugs, "It's alright. I mean, you can't complain too much, y'know."
Maya starts to look around the shop as a look of astonishment and curiosity comes across her face.
Eleanor nods, "Yes. I am sure it is a challenge to run a business in such conditions."
Nolene laughs, "Yeah, tell me about it."
Eleanor gestures to Maya, "She is my Childe. I believe I've already told you a little about her, yes?"
Nolene nods, "Yep. Grew up an orphan. Lifestyle writer for Nimbus Magazine. Embraced a few nights back." She looks at Maya, "Miss anything?"
Maya shakes her head, "I guess that covers...most of it. Heh." She continues browsing the shelves.
Eleanor asks, "And how is everything else going?"
Nolene dryly responds, "As well as it usually does on nights like these. You sure you don't want a drink?"
Eleanor shakes her head, "I shall feed later, thank you."
Nolene calls out, "Hey, Maya? You wanna share this with me?" She holds up a cup full of blood.
Maya replies, "Uh...sure." She holds her empty cup as Nolene pours half its contents into it.
Maya takes a sip and her eyes light up, "Wow! That's good!" She slowly drinks more.
Nolene nods, "Hmmm, that's the stuff. Hm!"
Eleanor paces around the shop, stopping to adjust the position of some trinkets and artifacts.
She asks, "How fare the other members of House Goratrix?"
Nolene is caught off-guard by that question and she almost spits out the blood in her mouth, "Uh...yeah, yeah, they're doing all fine. Yep. They're great. Yeah."
Eleanor narrows her eyes, "Are you sure about that, Ms. Nolene?"
Nolene gulps and avoids eye contact, "Um...yeah. I just spoke to them a while back."
Maya looks up at the ceiling and around the place. She asks, "So, how long have you been a Tremere, Nolene?"
Nolene replies, "Oh, not too long. Since the 90s, I guess."
Maya asks, "So, what's it like being a Tremere?"
Nolene replies, "It's pretty dope, actually. You get to learn all kinds of crazy spells and...stuff. Yeah, it's been a fun ride, that's for sure."
Maya asks, "What about the other Houses? What are they like?"
Nolene nervously chuckles, "They're all pretty much the same, I guess. I--I mean, it's kind of a jumbled up mess at the moment. Right, Eleanor?"
Eleanor dryly responds, "Hmmm, yes." She seems to be staring out the window, lost in thought.
Nolene changes the subject, "So, how's Lucile doing? I heard she's doing courier work now?"
Maya replies, "Yep, she's doing great. I--"
Nolene asks, "So, you 2 are dating, huh?"
Maya slowly nods, "Yep. We're...in love."
Nolene smiles, "That's great! I'm happy for you 2. Lucile always did seem a bit reserved when I met her."
Maya smiles, "Yeah, she's a sweetheart. I--I miss her so much right now."
Nolene says, "I'm sure you do, Maya. She'll be back before you know it."
Maya gives a tight-lipped smile to Nolene.
They spend a few more minutes in idle chatter.
Eleanor interjects, "Ms. Nolene, I am afraid I must leave now. I have other matters to attend to."
Nolene nods, "Sure. You taking Maya with or--"
Maya asks, "Is it OK if I hand around here for a while? Please, Eleanor?"
Eleanor gives her Childe a stern look, "You must focus on your training, Childe. And your tasks."
Maya frowns a bit, "Yeah. I guess you're right."
Nolene asks, "How 'bout tomorrow night?"
Maya responds, "I'd love that, Nolene. Is it OK with you?"
Nolene laughs, "Sure. I wouldn't mind the company, actually. Especially with things being as they are right now."
Maya asks, "So, what are you gonna do with that uh...dagger?"
Nolene sighs, "Eleanor's entrusted me with it. I'm supposed to keep it safe until she needs it."
Maya asks, "But, what is it?"
Eleanor is preparing to head out, "It is, as I clearly said before, for certain ritual purposes. Now, come, Maya. We must leave."
Maya follows Eleanor outside. Nolene waves goodbye as the 2 get into the SUV.
Eleanor gets in the back seat and Maya sits in the passenger seat.
Laszlo starts the car and drives off.
Maya says she wants to be dropped off at 5th Street. A couple of blocks north of the old bowling alley.
Laszlo says, "Sure, I know that place!"
He turns the wheel and the SUV makes a U-turn.
Maya maintains her silence and stares out the window.
The SUV stops in front of the old bowling alley. Maya gets out. She gives Laszlo a quick wave and smiles at Eleanor.
Eleanor rolls down her window, "Will there be anything else?"
"Nope, I can handle it from here. And, don't worry, I can find my way back home."
Eleanor looks at her Childe and says, "There are things I can teach you, but you must be willing to learn."
"I am willing, Eleanor."
"Very well. We shall discuss this later. Laszlo, drive. I will tell you where we should go next."
The bowling alley is a bit dark and quiet at this time. The paint is peeling off the walls. There's a broken sign on the roof.
Maya walks up to the front door and finds it locked. She decides to head to the place where the courier met his tragic end.
She hopes to find something, no matter how small, that could help her figure out what happened to him.
She's hoping to find a clue as to why he was attacked. She's even hoping to find out who destroyed him.
She was in for many surprises in the nights to come...
Maya walks around idly for a few minutes, occasionally bending over to look at the ground. She doesn't see anything out of the ordinary.
She then decides to take a look around the alley itself. She happens upon a pair of garbage dumpsters that have recently been emptied. A few flies and roaches still buzz around.
She grimaces and takes a few steps back. She notices an abandoned building nearby and decides to check it out.
As she's making her way there, she stops in her tracks as she feels the hairs on the back of her neck stand up.
Her eyes widen as she hears...voices. Whispers. Numerous whispers. Coming from all around.
She creeps up to the front door and sees that it's been boarded up recently. The windows have been covered up with blackout film.
Weird.
The abandoned building is about 5 stories tall. It's made of stone and brick. There's a few broken windows and some graffiti on the walls.
Maya stands there and scratches her head, not entirely sure of what to do next.
The whispers get louder. Thousands of tiny voices all around her.
Maya winces a bit.
She crouches and touches the ground. She decides to use her Auspex Discipline.
Perhaps the others missed something in their initial search?
Maya calms herself, shuts her eyes, and focuses. She tries to clear her mind and listen.
She hears...nothing. She opens her eyes and sees that nothing has changed.
The whispers seemed to have faded away (for the time being).
She sighs and shakes her head. She closes her eyes once more and tries to channel her Vitae into her Discipline.
She can feel the energy coursing through her veins. She feels it in her hands. She feels it in her eyes.
She concentrates as her eyes glow in a strange bluish-white hue.
She can see everything now. Far beyond what the mortal eye can see. She can see the dust particles floating around. She can see the littlest cracks in the walls.
She can see a few cigarette butts carelessly discarded on the ground.
She can see rats scurrying around a particular dumpster, nibbling on...something behind it.
"Whoa..."
She makes her way to the pair of dumpsters and shoos the rats away. She tenses her muscles as she grabs the dumpster's rusty handles.
She moves it to the side and finds a briefcase lying there!
She gasps and covers her mouth.
The briefcase is covered in a thick, disgusting layer of filth and who knows what else.
Maya's expression is one of disgust. She picks up the briefcase and holds it away from her face.
The briefcase has a 4-dial combination lock. The dials are currently locked. But, she can see the contents of the briefcase through her Auspex- it's just piles of papers.
She can't quite tell if anything is written on them or not.
Maya spots a rag cloth hanging on the wall. She picks it up and tries to clean the briefcase up a bit.
She grimaces and winces, "Ew, ew, ew, ew," as she scrubs it against the rough fabric. Eventually, the case looks passable.
Not perfectly clean, but not disgustingly filthy.
Still, Maya can't help but wonder to herself what the 4-digit combination is...and why would someone go through all the trouble of covering up their tracks like this?
Maya's eyes still have that otherworldly glow to them. She decides to just look around the place a bit more.
The whispers start up again. It's slow and barely audible at first, but it gets more overwhelming as time goes on.
Just then, Maya notices a large...figure. About 8 feet tall. She squints and notices what look like horns. The figure is either a massive shadow or shrouded in darkness.
The figure stands still and just stares at her, its totally blank face sending shivers down Maya's undead spine. She gasps and takes a few steps back, nearly tripping over her own feet.
The unknown creature stands there in the distance, watching Maya. The whispers are getting louder and louder. The ground underneath her feet feels strangely unstable.
Maya's vision returns back to normal. Her eyes go back to the way they were.
She squints in the general direction of where that creature was and sees...nothing.
A hallucination brought on by staying too long in Auspex, perhaps?
Either way, that's enough excitement for one night. Maya holds the briefcase and heads to the nearby bus stop.
The Prince is definitely gonna wanna see what she found!
Since she has no way of contacting him (or Sheriff Eunice), she decides to swing by the abandoned auditorium where the Clan reps usually have their meetings.
Maybe someone's still lurking around there at this time of the night?
Due to slightly denser traffic, the bus ride is a bit longer than expected.
On the bus, Maya holds onto the briefcase and gets a few looks from the other passengers. Some cover their noses while others have a rather sour expression on their face.
Can't blame 'em.
Maya politely smiles and sits all the way in the back, hoping that no one will recognize her after...the incident.
She lowers her head and sighs. She can't help but feel nervous.
It's a relatively long distance from the bus stop to the abandoned auditorium.
After "some" time, the bus arrives at another stop. Maya decides to walk to the auditorium. She can't afford to miss this opportunity to make a good impression on the Prince.
She gets off and sees a few buildings lined up along the road. A few street lamps provide some light.
She walks and walks. After about 15 minutes, she arrives at the abandoned auditorium.
She looks up at the large, rundown building, still holding tight onto the briefcase.
As expected, the front door is locked and chained up. Same with the side doors.
Maya sighs.
The Prince and his people are likely busy with something else at the moment, it would seem.
Maya decides to wait around for...5 minutes. Max. After that, she's calling it a night and going back to her Haven.
So, she waits.
And waits.
She pulls out her phone and takes a quick selfie for no reason other than a few extra minutes of her own amusement. Besides, it'd be a good picture to send to Lucile.
Maya stands around and thinks to herself. The last few nights have seen her "life" take quite the turn.
She paces back and forth, deep in contemplation.
Looks like they're a no-show.
Maya throws her hands up in the air and decides to return to the lovely cottage she (and Lucile) now call home.
She walks away, feeling a tad bit disappointed.
The bus ride back is quick enough. The few other passengers are mostly sleeping against the windows.
Maya arrives back at the cottage and lets herself in. She looks at the briefcase and groans in disgust.
It needs a good cleaning. She heads to the kitchen, grabs a sponge and some dishwasher liquid, and cleans the briefcase up.
Still not satisfied, she grabs some shampoo and a scrubbing brush and gets to work.
"Blugh. Disgusting..."
Eventually, the briefcase is clean enough to be called presentable (save for a few rat nibble marks on the edges).
And yet, she is STILL not satisfied. That Tremere Clan Compulsion for Perfectionism is starting to manifest itself.
She growls and looks around the cottage for anything else that can be used to clean up the damn briefcase.
She ends up finding an old rag, which she uses to wipe the case down.
"Hmph. Better than nothing, I guess..."
Maya inspects the briefcase and breathes a sigh of relief.
She sets it on the counter and sits down, her mind still on the strange whispers and the strange creature she saw earlier.
Her thoughts go back to Lucile. She wonders how she's doing. What has she been doing? Does she miss Maya?
She shakes her head. She knows the answer. Of course, she does.
Maya pulls out her phone and decides to look up some info about opening up 4-dial combination lock briefcases.
Not the most ideal thing to be looking up on the Internet, but desperate times and all.
She uses Incognito Mode just to be safe.
She comes across a few articles and videos about how one might go about trying to open a 4-digit combination lock.
"Hm. Well, seems pretty straight-forward, actually."
Although, that doesn't seem to be the case (no pun intended). She tries a supposed "reset code" and still cannot open the lock.
"Hm, hm."
She tries a few more ideas and still nothing.
She tries one more. And nothing.
She decides on something more...direct. Now that she's a vampire, her strength is greatly magnified. She can easily break the briefcase in half with relative ease.
"Grrrr. Unghh!"
Maya tries to pry the case open with her bare hands but to her surprise, it doesn't budge. It seems even a vampire's preternatural strength cannot crack open this case.
In frustration, she pushes the briefcase away, "Fuck!"
She decides now would be a great time for some music to get her mind off things.
She decides on something soothing and relaxing. She listens to her favorite singers for a good 40 minutes or so, allowing the music to make its way into her subconscious.
After that, she feels...calm and relaxed.
For the remainder of her night, she cozies herself up on the couch and gets to reading that complicated, wordy tome about Auspex. It's the Discipline she chose to specialize in, so she might as well try and understand it.
As she's flipping through the pages, her mind keeps going back to that...large creature she saw. She's also wondering to herself if she's slowly losing her mind.
Is the pressure of becoming a Kindred starting to get to her already?
She can't quite get the image of that thing out of her head. Was it simply covered in shadows or a shadowy being of some sort?
It was clearly no mere hallucination brought on by her Auspex. No, it was...real.
But, why didn't it move towards her or attack her? Why did it just stand there and...stare at her ominously?
She rubs her forehead and tries her best to push the images away. At least, she found the briefcase, so this night isn't a total waste!
Also, she met Nolene and she seems like a genuinely nice person. Maya decides to get to know her a bit more.
She returns her attention back to the book and keeps reading through it. There are a few other books that Eleanor left with Maya, but she has no interest to read those, too.
The tome she's reading is a decent enough read (once you get past the overly flowery language). It's a complex but intriguing study into the mysteries of the Auspex Discipline.
Well, most of them anyway. One mere tome doesn't even begin to cover a Discipline as vast as Auspex!
And as such, she spends a good 2 hours reading and trying her best to comprehend the deep concepts detailed within the pages. A very rigorous process!
The hours go by quickly. It's almost 2 AM! Maya folds the tip of the page she's on so she remembers where to continue reading from.
Since sunrise isn't for another 4 or so hours, Maya grabs her laptop and plugs the charger in a nearby socket.
She spends a few minutes absentmindedly scrolling through Pinterest.
Later, she decides now would be a great time to start looking for a job. She always believed that Nimbus was gonna be a long-term thing, but that was before her life was turned upside down.
Maya logs onto a job search site and goes through a few listings.
"Hm, hm, hmm." She's got a few saved. Her résumé is something that hasn't been updated in...quite a while.
She groans and continues searching for any job that matches her particular skillset (which, to be fair, isn't much).
After about an hour or so of surfing through these sites, she gives up. She sighs and shakes her head. She decides to take a short break and look at some news websites.
A few headlines catch her attention. There are numerous reports of the McMahon mansion fire.
Another headline catches her attention: "CEO Of Vespire Inc. Found Dead In Beverly Hills Home."
She reads more. Apparently, the CEO of the Vespire Inc was found dead in his home. Details are sparse, but it mentions signs of a struggle. The police say the suspect or suspects are still at large.
"Huh. Weird..."
She then decides to check out that subreddit where the Vespire documents were leaked on a few nights back.
It seems the same user, JimBdo_VKM, has been quite busy. They've recently leaked 2 more documents pertaining to Vespire's affairs.
They're both PDFs and look like company financials.
There's a message posted on the subreddit (by JimBdo_VKM) that goes on for paragraphs. It is absolutely unhinged. The grammar is the least of one's concerns- it is a rant about the most inane things imaginable.
Maya chuckles as she downloads the documents and copies them over to her phone. She decides a businessman like Arman would probably be able to make more sense of this kind of stuff.
So, she sends the 2 documents (which are 4 MB each) to Arman's WhatsApp number.
For reasons that should be apparent, Arman doesn't immediately reply.
She shrugs and decides to go back to idly browsing the web.
A few hours go by and the sun starts creeping up. Maya closes her laptop and yawns.
She stretches her arms and gets up from the couch. She quickly closes the curtains and heads downstairs to her bedroom.
She gets out of her clothes and plops herself down on her side of the bed.
The last thing on her mind as she slowly succumbs to the day-sleep is Lucile- the love of her Unlife.
Arman and Ginny inevitably succumb to the day-sleep as well, naked and wrapped up in each other's arms after an intense bout of lovemaking.
Soon, the sun is up in all its glory and the another night has finally come to an end.
Chapter 13: Convergence Of Factors
The sun's rays beam down on the town of Plaintry. The Kindred are asleep. Mortals, meanwhile, rise to face another day of work, family, and other fairly mundane affairs.
It's now 11 AM. Special Agent Higgins seems to have fallen asleep in his temporary office. He's seated behind the desk. His head is resting on his arms. He's snoring lightly.
There's a knock on the door. Higgins jumps and looks around, slightly startled. He beckons whoever it is to enter.
A man in a tight short-sleeved shirt and jeans walks in. He's well-built. He sports a short haircut and has black eyes. Tattoos of skulls and knives cover his arms. He has a short beard and mustache.
He's also a pistol in his holster.
"Special Agent Higgins?" he asks.
Higgins sits up and greets the man, "Yes," he extends his hand, "And you are?"
"I'm Jack. Jack Torgerson." He firmly shakes Higgins' hand, "The tac teams you requested have arrived, sir. They're waiting for your orders."
"Ah, good, good. And they've been briefed on the situation?"
"Yes, sir. Potential blank body activity in this town. They know what they're looking for. We can start the sweep when you're ready."
Higgins nods, "Good. Very good. We'll proceed according to protocol. These are some sneaky sonsa bitches we're dealing with here."
Jack smiles, "Oh, I know, sir. I know. But, if they're this town, we'll find them."
Higgins weakly smiles, "Good. I requested multiple tac teams because I believe a blank body could be anywhere in this town. Which Team you with, son?"
Jack straightens his back and responds, "I'm the leader of Team Omega, sir."
Higgins grabs his FBI windbreaker and puts it on, "Good, good. You eat anything yet, son?"
"Yes sir. A protein shake."
Higgins snorts as he holds back a laugh, "I'll need to wash up a bit, then we'll go and grab us some real food. There's a diner nearby."
"I'll meet you there, sir."
Higgins nods, "OK, OK."
Jack nods his head and leaves the room.
Higgins wastes no time and proceeds to the bathroom to wash his tired face. He gargles some mouthwash, then fixes his hair in the mirror.
He thinks to himself about how he's gotten to this point. It's been a few weeks since the raids down south. Since then, it's mostly been chasing empty leads.
Ms. Nicolaides, his "boss" (of sorts), is keeping him on a tight leash, though. But, it's still his operation since he's on the ground, leading it.
While Ms. Nicolaides sits in her comfy office ordering these people around, Higgins is the one out in the field, making sure things are done right.
Like Kindred Society, the Second Inquisition is full of petty squabbles, power plays, factional disputes, schisms, and such.
Some FBI agents are walking about, going through their papers, chatting with one another, and checking their gear.
One of them spots Higgins and walks up to him, "Hey, Special Agent Higgins?"
"Yeah?"
"Why'd you call ask for multiple tac teams to come up here?"
Higgins, still a bit groggy, replies, "I'm not takin' chances. We got blank bodies around. So, I'm getting every single available field asset I can get my hands on."
"But, isn't there a risk that, you know, someone's gonna report us to...the boss lady?"
Higgins scoffs, "It's MY OP and I'll run it as I see fit. Besides, she ain't here. She's too busy hiding out at that...place. No, no. Don't worry. She's too busy doing...whatever the hell she does."
"Oh. Um, OK. You think we can contain the threat, sir?"
"I hope so. You saw what happened to the McMahons?"
"Y--yes, sir."
"Messed up, ain't it?"
"7 seconds of footage hardly qualifies as evidence, but, yeah, it was pretty...scary."
Higgins nods, "We gotta flush 'em out and deal with 'em."
"I--It's just gonna be Response Level 1, right? I've heard stories about what they do at higher Response Levels."
Higgins places his hand on the FBI agent's shoulders, "Let's pray it doesn't come to that."
The FBI agent gulps, "Y--yeah."
Higgins feels his stomach growl and thinks to himself that he needs to eat something. He decides to head out to the nearby diner for a bite.
Might as well call it..."brunch" at this time of the day.
Higgins then approaches a few analysts and techs hunched over their computers, looking over something or the other.
He asks, "Did y'alls get the file I requested?"
One of the female analysts nods her head, "Yes sir. Shall I fax it over to you?"
"Yes. And email it to me."
"Will do, sir." She types some stuff on her keyboard and sends the file over to Higgins' computer.
Higgins goes to the nearby fax machine and taps his foot as he waits for the the file on Maya to print out. Once it does, he grabs it and quickly peruses through it.
His expression doesn't change as he looks over her info. It doesn't take him long.
"Hmmmph. Interesting..."
He mutters a few words under his breath and decides to read the rest of it at the diner.
Jack is waiting in the lobby area of this building that the SI is using as their de-facto headquarters. He's sitting on a chair and keeping his eyes peeled for Higgins.
He notices the man approaching him and stands up.
Higgins puts on his aviators and looks at Jack, "You joinin' me, son?"
Jack nods, "Only if you're buying, sir." He smiles.
Jack proceeds to introduce Higgins to the other members of Team Omega.
Some shake hands with the Higgins, while others are busy tucking away long wooden stakes and small arms in large black crates.
At the diner, they all sit at a large table and have brunch. They order some coffee and sandwiches. They chill there for a bit.
Most of them don't talk. Higgins orders his food to go. He asks Jack, "So, your people ready for a fight?"
Jack confidently replies, "Absolutely, sir. It's not our first rodeo. We know what we're up against. And once we know our targets, they'll be dealt with."
Higgins takes a sip of his coffee (black, no sugar) and nods, "That's what I like to hear."
He gestures over to Jack's people, "And your people? They reliable? Are they the real deal?"
"Oh yeah. They're the real deal, sir. And don't worry about them. I've worked with most of them before. We've got DEA, FBI, ATF, and ICE agents with us."
He smiles, "I'd even go so far as to say they're the best damn team I've ever had the privilege of leading, sir."
Higgins asks, "They ever...engage a blank body before?"
"Yes, sir. Flamed a few down south. Shoulda seen the looks on their faces when the stakes went in!"
He chuckles, "They don't call us the best for nothing, sir." He laughs heartily. The others at the table join in. Some raise their mugs of beer to him.
Higgins laughs, "Well, I'll be damned." He takes a sip of his coffee and stands up. "Let's get this show on the road."
Jack asks, "So, what are your orders, sir?"
"Until we get more actionable intel, your orders are to be ready. For anything, at anytime, anywhere."
Jack nods, "Understood, sir."
Higgins sighs as he gets up, "I gotta go talk to a...person of interest."
Jack asks, "Do you need any help...retrieving this person, sir?"
Higgins looks around and chuckles, "Oh, no, no. It's just a friendly lil talk. I'll be fine, son."
He takes the folder and leaves. Higgins grabs his egg sandwich and heads to his car. He starts it up and makes his way to Maya's old address.
The drive is quick and fairly uneventful. The sun bathes everything in a bright yellow glow.
Maya's old apartment still looks the same from the outside. Higgins steps in the elevator as he takes another bite of his egg sandwich. A small child stands next to him in the elevator and looks up at him, all wide-eyed and curious.
He looks down at the small child and says nothing. He continues eating in silence as the elevator ascends to Maya's floor.
Just as the elevator stops, the small child bolts out of there. Higgins, sandwich still in hand, strides to what he believes is Maya's old apartment.
The door is closed shut. So, he knocks on it a few times.
No answer.
He knocks harder and raises his voice, "Miss Maya! Special Agent Higgins, FBI. I would like to speak with you about something!"
Just then, Maya's old landlady awkwardly hobbles towards him.
She angrily snaps at him, "The fuck you making that loud racket for?!"
Higgins pulls out his badge and presents it to her.
She squints and groans, "The fuck did that dumb broad do now, huh?"
"That's what I'm hoping to ask her. Do you know--"
The landlady interrupts, "Bitch moved outta here."
"Do you know where--"
She rudely interrupts, "Don't know. Memory's a bit foggy. And frankly, I don't care."
She snorts, "Dumb broad always skipped out on her rent."
Higgins asks, "When did you last see her?"
She shrugs, "Who gives a shit? She's gone. That's all you need to know, Special Agent Whatever. I've got no reason to keep track of her. I've actually got a few potential tenants to show her old place to."
She walks off without saying much else. Higgins frowns and scratches his head, "Well, this was a damn waste of time."
He decides that there's nothing much else that can be done right now. He heads for the elevator and presses the down button.
As he's waiting, he reads through Maya's file again. He chuckles a few times and shakes his head.
"Beautiful red hair..."
Higgins decides that the best course of action now is to head back to his office and wait until one of the vampires slip up.
It's bound to happen sooner rather than later.
On the other side of town...
A few black SUVs have parked outside Arman's Haven.
A tall, heavyset woman wearing a sharp grey suit approaches the mansion's front doors. She looks around as she walks towards the front door.
She rings the doorbell and patiently waits.
The Ventrue is, of course, day-sleeping with a very beautiful Lasombra woman next to him, far from his own Haven.
Rolf answers the door. He asks, "Ja? Can I help?"
The woman introduces herself, "Ashleigh Meadows. Gen 4 Security. Is Mr. Rajakrishnan home?" Her British accent is sharp and clear.
Rolf seems quite flustered, "Um, no. He is not."
Ashleigh furrows her brow, "I see. Do you know when he will return, then?"
"Ja."
She directly asks, "And when is that, Mister..."
"Rolf. Arman's bodyguard."
They both exchange a tight handshake.
Rolf continues, "He will return in evening."
"I shall return in the evening, then."
Ashleigh looks at Rolf and smirks, "I guess we'll be working together, yeah?"
Rolf nods, his expression totally blank.
Ashleigh heads back to her SUV and drives off as the other SUVs follow her.
Rolf watches the black SUVs leave and returns inside.
Arman's Gen 4 Security detail is officially active. 2.5 million dollars well spent, or so he hopes.
While in her SUV, Ashleigh is speaking on the phone. She's talking to her boss, "Yes, ma'am. We are on schedule. No, we haven't run into any trouble. Yes, I'm aware of the client's rather peculiar request for silver ammunition."
She softly chuckles and goes on, "Of course, ma'am. Yes, you too. Goodbye."
She hangs up and sighs. A man hands her a tablet and says, "On-ground intelligence reports influx of various American national security agencies around the area, Ms. Meadows."
Ashleigh asks, "Will this interfere with our operation?" She looks at the tablet and continues, "Hm. Either way, I hope our client won't get us in a situation that requires we...engage with government agents."
The man replies, "I'm sure we can handle whatever comes our way. After all, that's what we're paid for."
She shakes her head, "This Arman seems to be an interesting fellow. Let's just hope he isn't too...eccentric like all our other clientele. Heh. Let's hope not."
Little did these mere pawns know...
Afternoon turns to evening as the sun slowly recedes into the horizon.
As such, it signals the Kindred to awaken from their long and rejuvenating morning-slumber.
Ginny's eyes flutter open. She's still lying on her bed, naked. Her head is on Arman's chest. She sleepily smiles at him and snuggles up against him. He looks at her and smiles back, gently running his fingers through her messy blonde hair.
He sighs, "Another night, my dear. Another lovely night."
Ginny lets out a long yawn and kisses him on his neck, "I can't wait to do this again, Arman."
He gently caresses her cheek and replies, "Of course. I can't quite believe I was able to...keep it up. And for so long, too."
Ginny giggles, "I'm not complaining, Casanova." She presses her cold, naked body against his.
She continues, "Besides, I enjoyed myself, too. You were pretty damn incredible."
He looks up at the ceiling and absorbs her compliment, "Why, thank you, Miss Bane."
Ginny looks up at him and asks, "Is...this a long-term thing, Arman? Or was it just--"
Arman places his finger on Ginny's lip, "Shhh. It'll be for however long we decide. We're Kindred, after all. Time is merely a...suggestion for us. It's meaningless. One night, one million nights, what difference does it make?"
There's a longing look in Ginny's dead eyes. She lets out a sigh and nods, "You're right. I...just wanted to be sure."
Arman softly chuckles, "No need to rush, my dear. Just relax. Most of the pieces are already in place, all we have to do is move the remaining few."
He gets out of bed and begins to dress, "The rest will fall in place in due time. You have my word."
He puts his shirt on and buttons it as Ginny props herself up with her elbows, "Alright. You've made a pretty convincing case so far, Arman."
Ginny looks at Arman from head to toe while he dresses up, "So, you want me to talk to the Malkavian? Get her to--"
Arman turns his head, "As I said, there's a strong case to be made AGAINST having a Ravnos as a Prince. I believe we should start by looking at other options, though."
Ginny furrows her brow and sits up in bed, "Y'know, that's the thing. Once Lucas is dusted, who's gonna take Praxis?"
Arman shrugs, "I do not know. I suppose it'll be whoever is...next in the hierarchy."
Ginny thinks for a few seconds, "So, that'd mean...Sheriff Eunice would be the most legitimate candidate for Prince of Plaintry."
"That would appear to be the case, my dear."
Ginny grimaces, "Ya sure she'll be a good fit??"
Arman responds, "She has already served as Sheriff under 2 Princes- Geoffrey Calhoun and Lucas...what's that man's last name? I seem to have--"
Ginny says, "Nicolaides. Lucas Nicolaides. Funny name, heh."
Arman smiles, "Yes, yes. Well, she served under Geoffrey for quite some time, it would seem."
Ginny directly asks, "Ya really want a Lunatic as the next Prince, Arman?"
Arman replies, "The Clan Of the Moon may be...unhinged. But, they might be more suitable for a laid-back town like Plaintry."
Ginny lets out a sigh, "I guess I'll just have to believe you."
Arman gives her an almost sad look and asks, "Have I ever let you down, my dear?"
Ginny softly chuckles, "So far, nope. Let's hope it stays that way...pretty boy." She bites her lip and suggestively strokes her breasts.
Arman steps closer, "As you wish, my dear. As you wish."
A naughty smile creeps onto Ginny's face. She grabs him by the neck and pulls the partially-dressed Ventrue down for a kiss. He gives in and passionately kisses her.
The 2 of them make out in bed, savoring each other's undead bodies once more. Eventually, Arman backs away as his hands begin to wander around Ginny's body.
He looks at the Lasombra with that usual warm (yet lustful) gaze he reserves only for her, "I should be going now."
Ginny wipes a bit of lipstick off his face and responds, "Next week?"
"Hmmm?"
She playfully pushes him, "Another date night, dummy! Me, you, and a couple of your Blood Dolls, y'know."
"Ah, yes." He gets up and finishes buttoning his shirt, "I shall arrange something."
Ginny lies back and arches her back as she stretches her legs. She folds her arms behind her head, "Mmmm. I can't wait."
Arman smiles as he finishes up, "I'm sure it'll be lovely."
Ginny gets up and adjusts his collar. She pushes his hair back a bit. Arman gently kisses her on her forehead.
She whispers, "Let's hope no one throws a wrench in our plans, Arman."
Arman jokingly says, "You know plenty about wrenches, don't you? Virginia Bane, car mechanic."
Ginny frowns, "I'm serious, Arman. We've worked long and hard to get where we are. And it's all gonna get fucked if we're not...up to snuff."
"And I trust you to see that I am indeed...up to snuff." Arman strokes her chin and looks deeply into her dead eyes. He lingers on his reflection in her pupils for a few seconds before smiling.
Arman continues, "Do your part, Magister, and I shall do mine."
She gives him a gentle kiss on his cheek and lets him go. She nods, "You betcha."
He adjusts his cuffs and looks around Ginny's bedroom, "Not a single mirror or remotely reflective surface. It's quite...quaint, isn't it?"
Ginny thinks to herself for a bit, "Uh, yeah. I got tired of seeing distorted-me in the fucking mirrors all the time, so I pulled 'em out."
"I hope our portrait from last night turned out to your liking."
Ginny shyly giggles, "I um...love it! I--I really do. Thanks, Arman!"
"You're very welcome. Perhaps one night, I shall have a world-renowned artist paint you from...head to toe."
Ginny stares blankly, "Wow, that would be...something."
Arman reassures her, "You're a very beautiful woman, Virginia. You might not be able to see that, others might not appreciate it, but I do."
Ginny remarks, "Ya really know how to butter people up, you know that?"
He smirks and replies, "You're different, Ginny. I've come to genuinely enjoy your company."
Ginny flirtatiously slaps his butt, "Mmmm. Me too, handsome."
He nods, "I shall see you later, then?"
"Yeah, I got some shit to take care of tonight. See ya."
Arman heads downstairs and waits for Rolf to arrive. The Ghoul should be here at any moment.
Meanwhile, Arman sits on Ginny's couch and turns on his phone. It takes a bit longer to boot up. He remarks to himself, "Time to buy a new one, perhaps?"
After a few seconds, the phone is up and running. The device has many unread texts, emails, and messages.
Arman checks his WhatsApp messages and notices the documents Maya sent over along with the following message: "Sorry if I'm disturbing u. Just thought u might be able to make more sense of these than I could. Thnx!"
Arman frowns and decides to forward the 2 PDFs to Lenny.
Lenny comes online a few seconds later. He replies: "Jeez, just woke up. WTF did you send me now??"
Arman replies: "More documents pertaining to Vespire Inc, I believe."
Lenny messages back: "I'll look @ it later. BTW, it's official. He's coming to town tomorrow afternoon."
Arman exhales and taps on the virtual keyboard: "So, what's our plan?"
Lenny responds after a few moments: "I'll tell him that one of Plaintry's more...important residents wishes to meet him before the whole Nimbus thing. He won't say no."
Arman types back: "Are you sure he won't?"
Lenny replies: "Kid's got a massive fucking ego. Loves the attention and spotlight. I think he'll be intrigued. As far as he knows, you're just some potential investor or something, so it should be no big deal."
Arman nods as his fingers glide across the virtual keyboard: "Fair enough. Arrange the meeting, Leonard. Tomorrow evening, my place."
Lenny replies: "Will do. Keep your phone on. You might get one or one hundred DMs from this clown. You know what you gotta do once he's in your place."
Arman furrows his brows and taps on the screen: "Yes, yes, I do. Just have the 6 million ready once it's over."
Lenny replies with 2 thumbs-up emojis.
2 minutes later, Arman hears a knock on the door.
Rolf!
Arman puts his phone away while Ginny answers the door. She greets Rolf, "Yeah, yeah, I got him all nice and wrapped up for you, big guy. Take care of him, ya hear?"
Rolf merely nods. He enters her Haven and looks at his Domitor, who is standing in the living room with a pleased expression on his face.
Arman asks, "Rolf, I trust you were able to dispose of the body from last night?"
"Yes, master."
"Good. Excellent. And how about the other 2 ladies? How are they doing?"
"Fine."
Arman glances at Ginny and smiles.
Ginny takes Arman's hand in hers, "I guess this is...goodbye. For now."
Arman puts his phone away, "Yes, my dear. I will see you tomorrow night. There is still more to...discuss."
Ginny sarcastically remarks, "Hmph, right. 'Discuss'. We...had a fun time, Arman." She gently squeezes his hand, "See you tomorrow." She lets go and watches Rolf walk out with Arman.
It's time to start making moves.
Rolf opens the passenger door for Arman and drives him back to his Haven. The Ghoul also tells his master that the Gen 4 Security detail has arrived.
Arman smirks and says nothing as the rest of the ride home is spent in relative silence.
Arman says, "I shall need to feed when we return. Please prepare someone before this Miss Meadows woman arrives."
Rolf slowly nods, "Ja."
Arman notices a look of uneasiness on his Ghoul's face. He says, "Don't worry, Rolf, I'm not replacing you. You will always be my number-one."
Rolf doesn't react and simply focuses on the road.
Arman places a hand on Rolf's broad shoulder and says, "For now, at least. I've been good to you, have I not, hmmm?"
Rolf nods in agreement.
Arman adds, "You're not going to start doubting me now, are you? At a time when things are slowly converging on their inevitable outcome."
Rolf sighs and shakes his head, "N...no, mein master." Rolf grips the wheel with more force.
"Good. You know better than most, my friend." Arman gently pats Rolf on the back and turns to look out the window as he watches the town zip by.
In good time, Arman is back in his Haven. He wipes a bit of fresh blood from the corner of his mouth and smiles to himself.
The Beast within has been satisfied for tonight at least.
Arman takes off his tuxedo and slips into some comfy pajamas. Soft, silky ones. He then plops down on his favorite recliner.
A few moments later, the doorbell rings. Rolf answers it, and there stands none other than Miss Ashleigh Meadows.
Rolf escorts her to where Arman is seated and asks, "Drink, miss?"
"That won't be necessary."
Rolf shrugs and walks off. Miss Meadows walks over to where Arman is. The Ventrue gets up and eyes her from head to toe.
She's in her late 20s. Her face is oval-shaped with a somewhat small mouth. She has piercing dark eyes, and her black hair is done up in a bun. She's wearing the same thing she was wearing in the afternoon.
She has little makeup on- some cheap lipstick and a generous amount of dark eyeliner.
She takes a good, long look around Arman's fancy Haven.
She bows her head and stretches out her hand, "Ashleigh Meadows. Gen 4 Security. It is a pleasure, Mr. Rajakrishnan."
Arman shakes her hand, "Please, call me Arman. 'Mr. Rajakrishnan' is just so...formal, you know? It feels rather stuffy."
She smirks, "Alright, Arman. I will be the head of your security detail until the contract has been completed."
Arman offers her a seat on one of his couches.
She declines and remains standing, "I understand that you had a certain...request regarding the ammunition our operatives shall be carrying. Am I correct?"
"Indeed."
"May I ask why?"
"You may not. Baroness Maybelline Pentham assured me of your firm's discretion, so I believe I do not need to explain myself. Do I?"
Ashleigh pauses and then calmly responds, "You are correct, sir. We value the needs of our clientele."
Arman asks, "And was the silver ammunition hard to come by, Ms. Meadows?"
Ashleigh shakes her head, "No, sir. There's a supplier in New Zealand who provided it."
"Very good. Thank them for their services."
"We're here to ensure you're safe and comfortable, Mr. Arman. Whatever it takes."
Arman leans back and continues, "As you can tell, I am a man of great...wealth and I'm not ashamed of it. That has attracted the disdain of certain individuals and they have gone through great lengths to bring harm to me. They might be after me even now, Ms. Meadows."
Ashleigh nods and waits for Arman to continue.
He goes on weaving this tale of total and utter bullshit, "My bodyguard, however, cannot be relied upon to keep me safe at all times. As such, I hired your firm because you are...more than qualified to deal with such threats."
"Your security team consists of...?"
Ashleigh replies, "Ex-military, former intelligence, mercenaries, the best of the best. The pinnacle of private security services."
Arman chuckles, "Hm. Funny. Maybelline said the exact same thing. No, no, I would like to know more about the men...and women who will be protecting me, Ms. Meadows. It might prove to be a good ice breaker, shall we say."
Ashleigh seems surprised. She replies, "If you insist, sir."
"Oh, I do insist, Ms. Meadows. Please, sit down and tell me all about the members of your team. You've already met Mr. Rolf, my...bodyguard."
Ashleigh nods as she walks to one of the couches and sits down. She sits straight and looks directly into Arman's eyes, her gaze is steady and penetrating.
The 2 get to talking about the specifics of the job, each operative, and so on.
Meanwhile...
Maya is wide awake from her day-sleep. She steps out of a steamy bath and looks at herself in the bathroom mirror.
She wraps herself in a towel and then starts brushing her teeth (fangs, too!). A few minutes later, she walks over to laptop and turns it on.
She hopes that Lucile will be online. She goes to the given link, clicks on it, and patiently waits.
She's assigned a random avatar and username, just like last time.
"PLZ W8..."
Moments later, another user joins the session. The video feed goes through a few glitches and flickers. Once the signal stabilizes, Maya lets out a happy sigh.
It's Lucile!
Her hair is neat and combed. She's wearing a denim jacket and a black shirt underneath. She has a cheerful look on her face as she looks into the camera.
Lucile waves, "Hey, hey, hey! How's my pretty poinsettia doing this evening?"
Maya waves back, "I'm OK. And I've been thinking about you a lot, Lucile."
The timer begins its countdown. T-minus 90 seconds.
Lucile replies, "Heh, same here. Every moment away from you is...is worse than a stake in the heart."
She softly laughs and says, "Hehe, OK, maybe not that bad, but...you know what I mean."
Maya nods, "I do."
Lucile asks, "So, how's everything?"
Maya coyly says, "I uh...just stepped outta the shower."
"Ah, did you, now? Mmmm. I'm guessing you're just wearing a towel and not much else, aren't ya?"
Maya giggles, "Mm-hmm. Yeah, that's about right." She twirls her damp hair around her index finger as she stares at Lucile through the monitor.
Lucile chuckles, "When I finally get back, I might catch you with your towel on the floor. Y'know, hehe."
Maya smiles as she feels the blood rushing to her cheeks. She thinks of all the...fun things they're going to do when they finally get to see each other.
Lucile's face becomes more serious as she clears her throat. She says, "Anyways, time's running out, so I'm gonna be leaving the town I'm in soon enough."
Maya nods.
"Look, I don't know if I can make it back in a few weeks or a few months. But, I promise to come back as soon as possible, sweetie."
Maya sighs and asks, "Do you know where they're sending you next?"
Lucile shakes her head, "Nope. Probably somewhere westward, but no idea on the specifics."
She continues, "Ain't easy being Kindred courier on nights like these. I met another Ravnos named Jean and we chatted a bit."
"Oh?"
"Yeah. Nice person! I was kinda sad to hear how they got into the whole courier thing."
"Hmmm?"
"You'll meet them soon enough. They should be there in a few nights with that flash drive Prince Lucas wanted decrypted. Hopefully, they make it back to us in one piece."
"That bad, huh?"
Lucile replies, "Yeeeeah. We need every courier we can get, sweetie."
The timer is on its last few seconds.
Lucile hurries up, "Listen. I love you, Maya. Always. Never forget that, OK? I know this has been rough on you. Just remember to stay safe, OK?"
Maya sniffles and says, "I'll be rooting for you. Come back to me, please. I can't go on without you, Lucile."
Lucile smiles as the the timer hits 0.
The video feed cuts and disappears.
Tears of blood roll down Maya's cheek as she looks at the blank screen with a mixture of sadness, anger, and pain in her undead heart.
Maya's loneliness has never felt this crushing before. She begins to wonder what would be left of her without Lucile by her side.
She also spends some time pondering about the state of her Clan as a whole as well as the other Kindred.
She's still a Fledgling, so there's a lot for her to learn.
And there are even greater secrets awaiting her in the shadows.
She shuts down the laptop and closes the lid. She grabs a hairdryer and plugs it in. She looks herself in the mirror and remarks, "Damn. Just...ugh, never mind."
She starts blow-drying her red hair and continues her usual beauty routine. She applies some light makeup to cover up that all-too-familiar deathly paleness that's so prominent on her face and neck.
After all, Kindred are considered clinically dead. This paleness is often mistaken for illness or simply bad lighting.
Maya puts on a hoodie jacket and a pair of casual pants. She checks herself in the mirror. Satisfied with her appearance, she slips into some comfy sneakers.
She then picks up her phone and her keys. Most importantly, she grabs the briefcase and looks it over. She shoves it under her arm and heads out of her cottage. She locks her door.
The Tremere gets on her Vespa scooter and inserts the keys into the ignition. It comes to life and she drives off. She's not entirely sure where to go just yet.
She decides to find a meal first.
She spots a guy in a Hi-Vis vest raking some leaves. He's wearing a cap and dark glasses.
The Beast stirs. Looks like this guy is gonna be tonight's meal.
Maya gets off her scooter and chains the briefcase to it. She casually walks up to him as he continues to rake some leaves into a large pile.
He doesn't even notice her and turns away to continue raking. He seems to be whistling the tune to some popular song.
The Beast is getting more impatient by the minute.
Maya silently creeps up behind him. She then covers his mouth with her hand and pulls him down with her iron grip. His eyes are full of fear as he desperately tries to break free.
Maya's fangs emerge. She quickly sinks them into his neck, drawing some blood. Her eyes glow a bit as she starts draining this man's blood.
The Beast is slowly getting its fill.
After a few blissful seconds, Maya pulls back. The man's breathing is shallow. She quickly notices the bruises forming around the area where she bit him. He looks pretty pale and dazed, too.
Maya feels a twinge of guilt in the pit of her undead stomach.
She proceeds to lick his wound shut. Maya leaves the man lying on the ground, a few meters away from the pile of leaves he had just raked.
She looks at him with concern and walks back to her scooter. She quickly leaves the scene and tries not to look back.
Maya drives off on her scooter. The briefcase is near her feet, on the deck of her Vespa. The gentle evening wind gently blows on her face.
The scent of pine needles and the sound of crickets chirping fills her ears.
A light fog hangs in the air, which she enjoys as well. She starts to hum an upbeat tune to herself and feels a lot better after that.
Her guilt about what happened earlier slowly abates, but is never fully gone.
Especially for Kindred with such high Humanity.
Such is the nature of her Unlife.
Maya decides to go to the abandoned auditorium. The Prince will be interested to see what's in the briefcase that Maya found amidst all the clutter and trash. Perhaps they'll finally find some answers! Or at least...some clues!
Maybe.
Maya slows down as she approaches the auditorium. She leans forward and sees that the door is still locked. There's a man in a worn denim jacket standing nearby.
He's leaning against the wall and drinking blood straight out of a blood bag.
Wow.
He looks at Maya, "What do you want?"
Maya sheepishly waves, "Um...hi."
The man guzzles down the last few drops from his blood bag and approaches Maya, "Sweet ride. Vespa, right?"
Maya nods.
He asks, "You that new Tremere everyone's buzzing about?"
Maya scratches the back of her neck and chuckles nervously, "Um, yeah. I guess."
The man shrugs, "Yeah, Prince Lucas ain't here now. You're too early. Come back at midnight."
Maya says, "OK, sure thing. You're a uh...Ravnos, right?"
He dryly nods. He crumples up the blood bag and shoves it in his backpack.
He looks at her again and asks, "Why?"
"N--No reason. Just curious about your Clan and all."
"Hmmm..."
The man pulls out another blood bag from his backpack, opens it, and offers it to Maya, "Got a buddy who works at a hospital. We trade favors for the bagged stuff. It's the real effin' deal."
Maya politely shakes her head, "I just ate."
He shrugs, "Fair nuff."
Maya says, "But, uh...thanks for the offer." She chuckles awkwardly and looks around. She scratches the back of her head and takes a deep breath.
The Ravnos closes the blood bag and puts it back in his backpack, "See you around. Or not. I dunno." He turns to walk away.
Maya blurts out, "I'm Maya. And you are?"
He simply waves and walks away.
Seeing that she has so much time, Maya decides to go around town for a while. She just has to make sure she doesn't draw too much attention to herself.
She's already in hot water due to certain...happenings.
She revs up her Vespa and decides to just take it nice and easy.
For the first time in a long time, she feels...different.
She's in love, she moved in with said lover, she has new friends, and she even completed a task given to her by the Prince. It feels really...odd. But, it's a nice odd. She enjoys it. For now, at least.
Maya parks her scooter and decides to walk around the town for a while. She wanted to pay Nolene a visit, but she doesn't quite feel up for it just yet.
Maybe after she hands over the briefcase to Prince Lucas?
Anyway, Maya wanders around. She does some window shopping. Cash is a bit tight at the moment and her job prospects aren't the greatest.
Little did this Tremere know about the plans Arman and Leonard had for her.
Maya tries to avoid crowded areas lest anyone recognize her and start badgering her. But, she knows she can't keep herself locked away in her cottage forever.
It's a beautiful Haven, sure, but that's no way to "live" for a Kindred.
She overhears a heated conversation between 2 people.
"I'm tellin' you, that pawn shop is haunted. The stuff they're sellin'?! It ain't right. I told 'em that."
"Ah, shut up, man."
"It's true. I'm telling you, the pawn shop has some bad juju."
"'Bad juju'?! Are you even listening to yourself?! Look, maybe it's your hay fever acting up. Don't let it get to ya, man."
Maya shrugs. She keeps walking as these people continue to argue about something trivial.
She shakes her head and continues wandering around.
After about an hour or so of loitering, Maya decides to sit down for a while on a bench. She takes out her phone and begins scrolling through it.
There's a bunch of text messages from people at her old job. Many are out of genuine concern for her. Few, however, are just filled with all kinds of expletives and slurs.
Yikes.
Maya is startled when she hears a voice speaking to her, "You're a hard woman to track down, Ms. Weekes."
She jerks her head as a man sits down next to her on the bench.
He's of medium-build, a bit thin, very pale looking, has short hair, and is wearing a black button-down shirt. He seems to be in his 30s.
His face is clean shaven, his eyes look totally empty and lifeless, and he has a peppy yet neutral expression.
He stretches out his hand, "Special Agent Björn Henrickson, FBI. Flimont City branch."
Maya's heart sinks and she slightly gasps, "Um...hello. H--How can I help you?" She tries her best to keep her cool, but she's freaking out inside.
Agent Björn takes a deep breath and smiles as his hand is still waiting to be shook by Maya, "C'mon, don't leave me hanging. Can't keep it up forever."
Maya warily shakes his hand. She winces at how...unusually cold it is.
Could it be...?
No, certainly not an FBI agent!
He continues, "You can call me Björn. I'd prefer it, actually. Heh, and yes, that IS my real name."
"OK, Björn? What do you want with me?"
"You're a smart gal, why don't you tell me?"
Maya sighs deeply, "There's a viral video of me and...someone arguing. That certain someone said some things about me that, for whatever reason, the FBI's interested in."
Björn laughs, "Yep, that about sums it up, Ms. Weekes."
Maya groans, "Hmph. J--Just call me Maya."
Björn replies, "You got it, Maya." He winks and chuckles.
Maya shoves her phone back in her pocket. She looks at this FBI agent and says, "I'm not under arrest or anything like that?"
"No, no, absolutely not. I just wanna...talk."
Maya directly asks, "Since when is the Federal Bureau of Investigation interested in vampires? Isn't it your job to do...other stuff?"
Agent Björn shrugs, "Ehhh. My particular...department is tasked with investigating strange happenings." His tone is vague and very mysterious.
Maya asks, "Why are you bothering me? I haven't done anything wrong, have I?"
Björn replies, "I dunno, you tell me. Have you been a naughty girl?"
Maya scoffs, "Pfff, I'm 33, cut the Santa Claus bullshit. What do you want from me?"
Björn pats her shoulder, "I just wanna talk."
Maya twitches a bit, "Join an online forum if you're desperate." She looks away from him.
Björn says, "Look, Maya, maybe we're not so different, you and I."
Maya turns to face Björn, "What the hell are you talking about?"
"Well I know a bit about you. It's sad, growing up an orphan. It really is."
"They have a file on me??" Maya sounds shocked.
Björn nods and lowers his voice, "We got a file on everyone, baby. National Security and all that."
Maya sighs and folds her arms, "Do I have a right to know what your file has about me? My entire life's on that file, right?"
Agent Björn lowers his voice to a whisper, "Probably. I could tell you more about...it. But--"
Maya's getting a bit annoyed, "But what?"
"Ooooh, you're a spicy one, aren't you?"
Maya furrows her brows and glares at him.
He clears his throat and points to the briefcase between Maya's feet, "What you got in that briefcase there? Looking for a job or something? Haha."
"None of your business."
He sighs as he adjusts his shirt cuff, "I'm your friend here, Maya. You gotta play ball with me. Let's go somewhere more private, what do you say?" He smiles again. It's a smile that could make anyone uncomfortable.
There's just something off about it. Deeply off.
Maya blandly asks, "Private? Where?"
Björn points in some vague direction, "Anywhere not here. Too many people around here. Too much...light," he whispers those last 3 words for some reason.
He continues, "Look, I'm not gonna hurt you or try anything funny." He does the Scout sign and salute with his 3 fingers, "Scout's Honor."
Maya nods and says, "You better not. You won't get very far." She scoffs and leans back on the bench.
Björn nods, "Oh, I know. Trust me." He leans closer and says, "C'mon, let's go."
"Hmmm. Let's." Maya grabs the briefcase and follows Björn. They walk to a nearby alley that is barely lit at this time.
They stop in the middle of the alley. Agent Björn looks around for anyone that could be snooping on them.
Once satisfied that no one's around, he turns to face Maya and smiles, "How 'bout a game of...pull my finger?" He wiggles his finger around.
Maya grimaces, "Ugh, is this what they do at FBI school or whatever it's called?"
Björn shrugs and smiles, "I dunno. I haven't been there in...years. But, I like to keep things funny," he laughs, but there is something deeply unsettling about his laugh, too. Something off...
Maya groans, "Funny, haha. Whatever, fine." She rolls her eyes as she takes Björn's finger.
With almost catlike reflexes, he grabs Maya's hand and places 2 fingers on her wrist, as if trying to feel for her pulse. His hands are colder than Maya's, so she gasps slightly in shock.
Maya stammers as she struggles to break free of his grip, "Wha--wha--"
He smiles at her and nods, "How about we play a game of...feel-my-pulse?"
Who is this guy?
Maya looks scared as Björn forces her fingers onto his own wrist. It's...odd. She feels absolutely no pulse from this man's wrist, yet he's still moving, talking, and acting like a human.
She stares deeply into his lifeless eyes, trying to figure out what's going on here.
Maya gulps, "You're...you're a--"
A smile of satisfaction comes across his face, "Kindred? Vampire? Cainite, if you're feeling fancy." He lets go of Maya's hand and chuckles to himself.
Maya rubs her wrist. It stings a bit. She doesn't like where this is going, but she also knows she doesn't really have any way to defend herself against someone like this.
Besides, he already said he means her no harm.
Maya asks, "What...what Clan are you from? Who is your Prince? Who is your Sire?"
He shrugs, "Prince?" He chuckles, "Heh. That's cute."
His face turns serious as he continues, "As for my Clan, well, I'm with Clan Baali."
Maya furrows her brows, "Baali? Um...never heard of them."
Björn clicks his tongue, "Shame. I guess they really do try to...not talk about us."
Maya remarks, "That's probably for a good reason."
Björn dismissively waves his hand, "We don't really care what others think. So, you a Ravnos like the rest of the bloodsuckers in this podunk town?" He smirks at Maya.
She shakes her head, "Uh...no."
He tilts his head and raises his brow, "Hmmm? A Ventrue then? Lasombra? Gangrel? Tzimisce? Brujah? Malkavian, oh they're nuts, haha!"
"No. Absolutely not. Nope. No. No and no."
Björn blows a raspberry, "OK, I give up. Which Clan do you belong to?"
"Tremere."
"Oh, them. Huh, you don't seem their type, but ehhh. What can I say? Hehe." He pokes her forehead with his index finger.
Maya pushes his finger away and matter-of-factly declares, "You should probably present yourself to the Prince of this town in accordance with the Fifth Tradition of the Camarilla."
He struggles to hold back laughter, "What a nerd, haha! Do you stop to read the signs and everything?"
Maya's not sure what to say to that. She shrugs and tries to change the subject, "So, what's your Clan about? I've never heard of them. But, that's hardly surprising; Kindred are pretty damn secretive."
Björn raises his chin slightly, "Actually, I wanna introduce you to a...friend of mine. I think you 2 have already met."
Maya is unsure what to say, "Umm...no?" She pauses for a few seconds, "Why are you being so weird, anyways? I'm...still new to this whole being a vampire thing."
"A Fledgling, huh?"
"Yeah."
Björn shrugs, "Anyways..." He snaps his fingers and convulses and winces a few times. After a few moments, his eyes glow.
From out of nowhere, an imposing, 8 feet tall, figure materializes behind Maya. It is totally pitch black.
Maya's heart acts up as she turns around to look at this thing.
Her jaw hangs open as the faceless, expressionless creature looks down at her.
She notices the horns on...its head. They are long, twisted, and sharp. Its arms and hands are quite large. In fact, the entire body is extremely big, almost disproportionate.
Maya takes a few steps back and almost falls over. Luckily, Björn catches her. She turns around and stares into his eyes.
She has a confused, yet shocked look on her face, "Wha..."
Björn pats Maya on the back and gestures to that thing, "Say hello to my little friend. OK, that sounded a bit cliché. Hah."
Maya stammers, "It's...it's..."
"It's a product of my Daimonion Discipline."
The creature seems to look down at Maya with great interest.
Björn remarks, "I'm still new to the whole Kindred thing myself, too." He walks to one of the alley's walls and leans against it.
The shadow creature stands there, watching Maya move away from it. She's terrified and doesn't know what to make of this situation.
She takes a deep breath.
Björn grins, "Ahhh. I think it likes you."
Maya stammers as she says, "I--I saw something like this in...in--"
"An alleyway near 5th Street. Yeah, we share our vision. The more eyes the merrier, right?" He snickers.
"How...?"
"Pfft. Just because it doesn't have eyes, doesn't mean it can't see! It probably has a million under that cloak of darkness or whatever." He smiles and shrugs.
Maya squints her eyes a bit. A part of her is kinda curious about this strange creature, which seems to either be a piece or extension of Björn himself.
He adds, "Don't get any bright ideas, Fledgling. This is something ONLY me and my Clan can do. Not your precious Tremere or anyone else."
He continues as a sly smirk forms across his face, "But, if you're interested in learning more, just say so, eh?"
Maya nervously shakes her head. She gulps and looks up at this shadow entity.
Björn gestures to it, "It's actually quite helpful, Maya."
Maya skeptically asks, "How exactly is an 8 foot tall shadow...thing with horns on its head helpful?"
Björn points at it, "'Thing'?! You're hurting its feelings! C'mon, be a little more considerate." He pouts as his shadow entity looks around the area.
She hears a very faint growl coming from Björn's "buddy".
It's unsettling and deeply unnerving.
Björn adds, "It's like my best bud! Sometimes, it brings me my meals, scouts out areas, eavesdrops on people, or whatever!"
The entity takes a few steps back and assumes a more relaxed posture.
Björn casually asks, "What were you up to in that alley before I so graciously appeared in front of you?"
Maya stammers, "I--I was looking around."
Björn nods over to the briefcase that Maya is holding on to, "You've been holding on to that thing for a while now. Wanna tell your new pals what's inside? Hmmm?"
He smiles and tries to appear nonthreatening.
Maya sighs deeply, "It's nothing to do with you."
Björn shrugs, "OK, OK, fine."
Maya looks at Björn's Infernal Servitor and asks, "What do you want in this town, anyway? Did you really come just to...chat with me?"
Björn grins, "Like I said, Maya, you and I, we're not so different."
Maya folds her arms and shakes her head, "I wouldn't be so sure about that. I...just don't want any trouble. Not from anyone. OK?"
Björn nods, "Me neither. But, someone in this town has something."
"Has something???"
Björn cracks his knuckles, "Has something that belongs to my...boss."
"Huh???" Maya's confused and doesn't really know how to respond to that.
He continues, "It's complicated. I wouldn't call him my 'boss' per se, but yeah, I'm looking for something. I last heard about it being in this charming little podunk town."
"You're looking for something that...someone might have. Got it."
Björn smiles, "Maybe they might not even know that they have...it."
Maya cocks her head, "What is 'it'? What exactly are we talking about??"
Björn vaguely replies, "The less you know about it, the better, I suppose."
Maya shrugs, "Whatever. Just don't breach the Masquerade and play nice."
Björn shakes his head, "Yeah, yeah, I know about all that. Can't make any promises, though. Us Baali tend to be a little more..."
Maya finishes his sentence, "...weird, weird, and weirder. Gotcha."
He chuckles, "Heh, not entirely wrong about that."
Björn straightens out his shirt and gestures to the alley entrance, "You probably have places to be. As do I."
Maya says, "Wait! I have a few more questions."
Björn looks at his Infernal Servitor, "Should we play 20 questions with the redhead?"
No reply, in word or action, from it.
Björn softly exhales, "I suppose I could spare a few minutes."
Maya nods. She looks at the shadowy figure again and then at Björn.
"How are you even doing that?" Maya points at his shadowy companion.
"Clan Baali specialty. For the right price, you could have one of your own, or maybe something else from the Beyond."
"For the right price. Uh-huh. OK, next question. How does yours differ from the other Clans?"
"Apart from the fact that the other Clans love denouncing us as devil worshipers and pretending we don't exist? Hmmm." He scratches his chin, "Well, I can't speak for the others, but my Clan is pretty unique."
"Unique how?"
"We're not bound by the same rules as the other Clans. For instance, us Baali can Re-Embrace a Kindred. NO OTHER Clan can do that. We got a lotta Nosferatu who get sick and tired of being ugly sewer dwellers approaching us, heh." Björn has a smug look on his face.
"Huh." Maya ponders over this. She then asks, "OK, but why are you an FBI agent? Or uh...HOW are you still one? You know the Second Inquisition is hunting us down, right?"
Björn chuckles and looks around, "I know, I know. I was actually one of them- unwittingly, of course. But, hey, the FBI thing's good enough to get you into places and stuff."
Björn continues, "Oh, and speaking of FBI, Special Agent Higgins is really, REALLY eager to talk to you. I'm sure you know why. I can...keep him off your back."
He lowers his voice and leans in closer, "Or I can make sure they never find his body."
"Who's Higgins?" Maya nervously asks. She's heard that name before, from her former employer. She asks, "Is Higgins d--dangerous or something?" Her voice sounds a bit shaky.
Björn nods. He replies, "He's SI. That's all I'm gonna say. So, you want," he gestures to his Infernal Servitor, "us...to take care of him?" His smile is unsettling, as usual.
Maya's not really sure how to respond to this. She's only known Björn (and his "buddy") for like, a few minutes.
She shakes her head, "I dunno. I--I just don't like being put in such uncomfortable situations where I have to decide. Is there anything you can do to help me avoid Higgins altogether?"
She pauses, "I guess...I should meet him. If he's so...eager to see me, then what's the harm in it, right?" She shrugs.
Björn pouts, "You're a spoilsport, you know that, Maya Weekes?"
He laughs a bit and continues, "Anyway, just...don't trust the guy, OK? These SI higher-ups do tend to try and manipulate people, especially younger Kindred. So, you can never be too careful around these a-holes."
She gestures to the shadow entity, "Is...it strong enough to, y'know, rip heads off or something? Or can you just tell it to uh...watch you while you day-sleep?" She feels weird asking about that, but she's kinda curious.
"It can do a lotta things, ain't that right, pal?" He nods over to his "buddy" and softly chuckles.
It, of course, merely looks at him and then at Maya. It doesn't seem to react otherwise. At least, not as far as Maya can tell. Its face is a blank canvas. She's not sure what the thing is capable of, and part of her doesn't wanna know.
At least, not yet.
Björn stretches his arms and legs, exaggerating his yawn. He says, "Any more questions, sweet pea? I gotta run." He points over to his shadowy buddy, "We got stuff to do."
Maya thinks for a few moments before shaking her head, "Nope. You're kind of weird, Björn. I'll give ya that, haha." She tries to break the tension. It sort of works. But, she's still a bit freaked out by him.
And his otherworldly buddy, of course. Who wouldn't be?!
Björn laughs, "We're all a bit weird, Ms. Weekes. We're Kindred, after all. Our whole schtick is...unusual."
He smiles at her and walks away, his Infernal Servitor, slowly trudging behind him.
Maya calls out, "Goodnight! I guess."
Björn merely waves as he heads to where ever it is he's planning to go.
Maya also has places to be, but there's still so much time. She grabs the briefcase and goes back to her Vespa. She's a bit worried that something happened to it, but everything's fine! The chain and lock are intact.
She drives off, thinking about what to do now. She decides to go to a more open (and less busy) stretch of road to sharpen her scooter-riding skills. So, she cruises along the semi-lit streets of Plaintry.
Her mind drifts towards thoughts about the Prince, the mysterious briefcase, and the new Baali FBI agent. She's a bit anxious about meeting the Prince later.
What if the info in that briefcase turns out to be a dead end? What will the Prince do?
Will he blame her for that? Will the other Kindred hate her for that?
The info in that briefcase is supposed to exonerate the Nosferatu Clan of any wrongdoing all those years ago, when Geoffrey was Prince.
So, that means the Toreador Clan would be solely responsible for the numerous violations of the Traditions (perceived or otherwise).
She wonders how long ago and how deep this whole mess actually goes.
Will she ever get answers? And what about Nosferatu?
Will they get a chance to redeem themselves? Will they be welcome back to the town?
Questions that a mere Fledgling like Maya was in no position to answer.
As she rides, she spots a group of teenagers walking on the sidewalk. She slows down a bit and passes them.
She hears them talking amongst themselves. They turn around and see Maya on the scooter. She's not wearing her helmet, so they almost immediately recognize her.
They start pointing and jeering. A couple of them make faces at her. One of them even yells, "DRACULA WENT THAT WAY!"
Maya sighs and speeds off, feeling a bit annoyed and frustrated. She's not about to start a fight with a bunch of teenagers. She, after all, was one numerous years ago.
So, a part of her understands their...antics. She just hopes that it won't become too much of a bother in the age of technology. After all, as a Kindred, she now has a responsibility to uphold The Masquerade.
Anyway, she speeds off and spends the next hour or so idly riding around the town on her Vespa. Frank really did a good job on the maintenance and repairs. It's like she's riding a brand new scooter!
It's too bad she'll never get to thank him.
After a while, she decides to head back to the auditorium. It's time to hand over that briefcase to the Prince, or whoever's there.
She parks her scooter and grabs the briefcase. She takes a deep breath and starts walking.
As she expected, Prince Lucas is there, but he's not alone. There's a Native American man speaking with him. There are also quite a few bullet bikes and muscle cars parked around.
Prince Lucas sees Maya and waves her over. He greets her with a big smile and says, "There she is. Our new Tremere Fledgling. Welcome, welcome. How has your night been so far?"
Maya smiles, "It's been good, Prince Lucas. How are you doing tonight?"
Prince Lucas sighs, "As well as one can expect, I suppose. I'd like to introduce you to someone, Maya."
The Native American man steps forward and introduces himself, "Name's Chaska. Clan Ravnos. Lucas, err, I mean Prince Lucas has told me quite a bit about you, Usurper."
Maya shakes his hand, "Nice to meet you, Mr. Chaska."
Prince Lucas asks, "What's in the briefcase, Maya?"
Maya holds it up and slightly grins, "Oh, this. I found it near the place that Caitiff courier was destroyed. It was behind a nasty dumpster."
Prince Lucas arches one eyebrow, "Was it now? My people combed that area and found nothing. How did you do it?"
Maya maintains her slight grin, "Auspex!"
Prince Lucas chuckles, "Very good, very good. Here, let me see."
Maya hands over the briefcase. Chaska studies her with great interest. He seems very curious about this Tremere Fledgling.
The Prince inspects the briefcase and looks at the 4-dial combination lock.
Maya remarks, "I...uh cleaned it up real nice and everything."
The Prince nods, "I can see that. Hmmm. It does look quite...new."
Prince Lucas mutters to himself for a few moments as he tries to recall the code to the briefcase.
Maya interrupts, "I tried to get it open, but--"
Chaska puts his fingers on his lips, "Shhh. He already knows the code."
After a few seconds, the Prince manages to open the briefcase. Inside is a pile of papers.
The first page reads: "Evidence To Exonerate The Nosferatu."
Very on-the-nose.
Prince Lucas sets the briefcase on the hood of a parked car and begins reading through the documents.
He looks perplexed and irritated as he frantically turns the pages. He's mumbling to himself.
Chaska looks over the Prince's shoulder, "Wha--"
Prince Lucas sneers, "Empty. It's all empty."
He looks at Maya with anger in his eyes.
Maya takes a few steps back and holds her hands up, "Wait, hold on, please, I don't know anything about this!"
Prince Lucas snarls, "Of course you don't!"
Chaska grabs the Prince's arm and says, "She's not at fault here! This...is clearly someone's idea of a sick joke."
Maya looks at some of the completely blank pages being blown away by the night wind, "I didn't know it was empty! Honest!"
Prince Lucas looks at the documents, "Who would do this? Why?!" He clenches his fist.
Maya stammers, "M--Maybe...maybe--"
Prince Lucas angrily says, "Just say it, Maya!"
Maya gulps, "Maybe they wrote it in...invisible ink or something?" She feels a bit embarrassed saying that out loud.
Chaska shares in her embarrassment and holds back a smirk, "Not likely."
Prince Lucas shoves the papers back in the briefcase and violently closes it shut. He tosses it over to Maya.
She's about to catch it, but it hits her in the chest. She watches as it hits the ground and spills the documents.
She quickly gathers the papers and shoves them back in the briefcase.
Chaska shakes his head as Prince Lucas walks away. He bends down to help Maya gather these blank sheets of A4 paper.
He remarks, "He might be a Ravnos, but there are times when his temper flares up like that of a Brujah."
Maya weakly smiles and lowers her head as she gathers the last few pages.
Chaska adds, "Don't take it too hard. We're Kindred. Shit like this is expected. Some Prince or heavy-hitter thought it'd be haha funny to have a Caitiff deliver a whole lotta nothing across the country."
Maya's lips quiver, "That--that courier was destroyed for no reason at all??"
Chaska nods, "I'm afraid that's the case. His name was Max, by the way. Poor guy. Didn't deserve that."
Maya sighs deeply and stares at the briefcase.
Chaska reassures her, "I know that look. You're worried about your Lucile, aren't you?"
Maya silently nods.
The Wanderer continues, "She's gonna be OK. I'm told that she's an excellent Blood Sorceress?"
Maya replies, "The finest I've ever met."
He gives her shoulder a gentle squeeze, "Then, she's gonna be just fine."
Maya smiles weakly and sighs. She looks over at the Prince.
Prince Lucas is leaning against a wall, one leg bent up.
He's looking at a blank piece of paper he has in his hand, then he looks at Maya, then at Chaska.
His eyes have an intense, fiery look to them.
Chaska remarks, "The pressures of Princehood, Maya. Even in a town like this, it's tough." He walks over to Prince Lucas and sits next to him. They begin to talk in hushed tones.
Maya can barely make out what they're saying, but it seems that Prince Lucas and Chaska know each other.
Maya looks around and notices all the Ravnos gathered here. What are they doing here?
Soon enough, Sheriff Eunice arrives in a beat-up SUV, slightly dented at the front. She hops out and tosses the car keys to someone nearby.
Not acknowledging Maya or Chaska, she power-walks over to Prince Lucas and asks, "Ready?"
The Prince solemnly nods his head, "Yes, bring the body." He looks at Chaska.
Sheriff Eunice nods and walks away, "Ten-Four." She motions for a group of Ravnos to follow her.
Maya narrows her eyes and asks Chaska what's going on.
He responds, "It's Frank's funeral, Usurper. We don't exactly have a proper burial plot, so we're just gonna...bury him here." He pauses and looks around.
He continues, "I suggested cremation, but Prince Lucas insisted on a proper burial. After all, Frank was his Ghoul."
Maya nods and asks, "Where's the body, then?" She feels weird asking that. She's still a bit shaken up from what just transpired.
After all, she found Frank and was the last to see him alive. With his dying words, he identified his attackers: The Garou.
Chaska asks, "So, I heard you and some Thin-Blood named Dylan found Frank and a few of our people at a garage?"
Maya nods, "Yeah." Her hands tremble a bit.
Chaska grips her trembling hand, "It's OK, Maya. It's not your fault. We will find who did this to Frank and we will make them answer for their crimes." He sounds very determined.
Maya nods, "I--I wanna help. I wanna find the Garou, too." She clenches her fists.
Chaska shakes his head, "I have met Garou before. It's not unusual for a Garou to attack a Kindred, but something about this seems...odd." He seems a bit worried.
He adds, "I'm sure you've already met Sheriff Eunice?"
Maya grits her teeth and swallows hard, "Uh, yeah. She's...scary."
Chaska replies, "It's part of her job. And her being a Malkavian helps. Probably." He pauses to let out a nervous chuckle.
Maya nods, "Yeah." She looks over to Sheriff Eunice and the others.
She sees what remains of Frank, wrapped in a white sheet. It's lying down on the ground, surrounded by many Ravnos. Sheriff Eunice is there as well.
Prince Lucas also looks over to the body and sighs, "Oh, Frank..."
He then beckons Chaska and Maya to join him.
Maya stops in her tracks and notices that she isn't quite dressed for a funeral.
Chaska turns around and says, "It's fine, Maya. Just come." He warmly smiles at her and then joins Prince Lucas.
Maya walks over to the Prince and stands next to Chaska. There's about a dozen or more Ravnos gathered to pay their respects to the departed Ghoul.
Chaska begins, "Well, I'm not really good at this sort of thing. But, here goes. Frank was a good friend. He always had a kind word to say to everyone, no matter who they were, Kindred or mortal."
He looks over to the side and continues, "He was also a damn good mechanic."
A Ravnos sitting on the hood of a car raises a beer bottle, half-filled with blood, and says, "Hear hear!" He takes a big gulp of it.
Prince Lucas nods, "Yes. Frank was an excellent Ghoul. He served me well and with great dedication. He will be missed. Rest well, my friend." He sighs deeply as a drop of blood flows down his cheek.
The other Ravnos solemnly nod and lower their heads in silence. Some mutter a few words, others hold each other close. A few seem to shed tears, of sadness and blood.
Prince Lucas wipes his bloody tear with his thumb and motions for the others to follow him. They grab their shovels and begin to dig a hole near the auditorium.
Chaska motions to one of the Ravnos and says, "Let's go."
Sheriff Eunice hangs back, her arms crossed. She looks completely indifferent to the whole thing. She stands still as a statue.
Maya walks up next to her and politely says, "Hi."
A grunt from the Sheriff is all she gets in return.
Maya adds, "I'm...I'm sorry about Frank. I really am." She looks down at the ground.
Maya continues, "I uh...found something tonight."
Sheriff Eunice coldly replies, "Did you, now? Spit it out." She doesn't turn her head or make any other movement.
Maya gulps, "Y--Yeah. I found the briefcase that Caitiff courier was carrying."
"Hmph. Anything interesting inside?"
Maya shakes her head, "A whole lotta nothing."
"Then, why are you telling me this?"
"I--I just thought you'd wanna know, I uh--"
Eunice dryly interjects, "Grab a shovel and help those Ravens out, would you?"
Maya simply lowers her head and walks to the others. She volunteers, but they seem to have it under control. She watches as they finish digging a hole big enough to fit a partially dismembered body.
One of the Ravnos says, "We're done here, boss."
They proceed to lower the torn body into the hole.
After the body is inside, Maya is the first to take initiative. She grabs a clump of dirt and gently drops it onto the corpse.
Chaska nods and follows suit, as do the other Ravnos. Prince Lucas bends down and drops a few clumps of dirt on the body.
He softly says, "Rest easy, old friend." He looks over to Sheriff Eunice and shakes his head.
She's just standing there, far away, her arms folded, her back straight, not moving even an inch.
When everyone's done, a few of the Ravnos begin to shovel the dirt back into the hole.
As they do, Prince Lucas grabs Maya's shoulder and leads her away. He tells her to follow him. Maya is hesitant, but complies.
With a wrinkled brow, she follows him to a nearby corner.
The Prince clasps his hands together and avoids eye contact, "Maya, I'm not usually one for such things, but I want to apologize for my...outburst earlier."
He continues, "I had high hopes that what you found would actually help. But, alas." He shrugs.
Maya stammers, "It's...it's alright. Being Prince is not easy. I get it. The pressures and all that stuff."
"Hm. You have no idea how...taxing it can get, Maya. Which is why I had Frank. He was the one who'd sit down and organize the Clan meetings months in advance."
"Oh."
"Yes. I have no skill for such things. But, Frank did. It is going to be tough without him. Even more so with the Garou in town." He sighs and rubs his forehead.
Maya asks, "Is there anything more I can do to help."
Prince Lucas shakes his head, "You are still a Fledgling, Maya. Besides, your Clan is a very...demanding one, is it not? The Tremere have unusually high expectations for you, don't they?"
Maya shrugs, "Yeah, I guess." She pauses and looks around for a few seconds.
He replies, "I'm sure your Sire will guide you through the worst of it."
Prince Lucas gestures to all the other Ravnos who are gathered around the fresh grave, "All of them and many more were what you would call Frank's 'closest friends'. They knew him very well."
He then points at a Ravnos standing next to the grave and says, "For instance, Frank fixed up her old Mustang and had it looking better than ever."
Maya nods, "Frank was a good man. He didn't deserve to be uh...murdered like that."
Prince Lucas sighs, "No one does, Maya. I have met the Garou during my travels. They are certainly many things, as are Kindred. But, they do not randomly kill someone who poses no immediate threat to them. No. This is...different." He looks down at the ground.
He continues, "Perhaps you will help uncover the real intentions of the Garou in this town. I suspect that they are here for more than just hunting down random Kindred and Ghouls."
Maya nods, "I'm gonna find out what their deal is." Yet, her tone betrays her uncertainty.
The Prince smiles and looks over at Sheriff Eunice, "I understand the Sheriff can be a hard woman to deal with, but she is just doing her job. Besides, she lost her husband some time ago."
Maya replies, "Yeah, I heard something about that..."
"I don't know the specifics and Eunice doesn't seem too keen on sharing that info with others. But, yes, she was once married to a mortal man. He was in the real estate business, if I'm not mistaken."
"Any...any uh...kids?"
"A 17 year old stepdaughter. Eunice and her don't seem close at all, however."
"That's sad."
The Prince shrugs, "It is what it is, Maya. I have no idea how a relationship between a mortal and a Kindred would work out. Besides, they never seem to last more than a few decades at best. I suppose that is to be expected."
Maya remarks, "I dunno. It could be possible, probably."
Prince Lucas says, "Either way, do try your best to work with the Sheriff. The sooner we find out what the Garou want in this town, the better for all involved."
Maya shrugs and smiles, "Yeah, OK." She nods, "I'll do my best, Prince Lucas. Um...promise."
Prince Lucas shakes his head, "Don't make promises you might not be able to fulfill, Maya."
Maya nods, "Yeah, yeah. You're right." She sighs, feeling slightly awkward.
The Prince walks away, back to the other Ravnos who have done a good job covering up Frank's body. They are now chatting amongst themselves and having a few thoughtful moments here and there.
Maya watches as Sheriff Eunice struts over to the group.
Chaska dusts his hands as he walks over to Maya, "Well, that's one less friend I have now."
He sighs deeply, "Sorry, it's not exactly easy, you know? After all, us Kindred are given this promise of living forever. They never tell us about the downsides of Unlife, though. They never warn you about how you might lose everyone you care about."
Maya nods, "Yeah. Tell me about it."
Chaska raises his head to the sky, "But, then again, what's the point of living forever if you have no one to share it with?"
He looks over to Maya, "Even now, I see that look of anxiety on your face, Usurper. You have concerns about your Lucile. I understand that. I hope she won't make the same mistakes I have."
Maya furrows her brows and asks, "What do you mean by that??"
"I was a courier once. I think it was way back in '92. 1992, that is, haha. It had been a good decade since my Embrace, yet I still found myself making many mistakes. Anyway, I was supposed to deliver some important documents to a Ventrue Prince, but...I got sidetracked along the way."
He rubs his hands once more and continues, "My car broke down. It was late at night and the rain was pouring down like crazy. So, I had to walk a few miles to a motel."
He pauses and looks around, "Spent some cash for a room. Sunrise was in a few hours. Then, I heard a noise coming from outside. So, I walked to the door, opened it, and..." He takes a deep breath.
Maya nods, "And...what happened?"
"The place was swarming with police. They said something about a nasty car crash on the I-90. They barged into my room and...found my stash of blood. Not my fault, really. I was thirsty. It happens."
Maya asks, "You could have just uh...convinced them that nothing was out of the ordinary."
"Hah. Yeah, right. A bunch of racist, trigger-happy cops finding bags of blood in a Native American man's motel room in the 90s? Sure, you lemme know if you can talk your way outta THAT..."
"So...uh, what did you do?"
He coldly responds, "What I had to do, Usurper."
Maya gulps, "Y--You mean, you ki--"
A look of anguish comes across Chaska's face as he lowers his head, "Yes, Maya. I killed them. All."
"B--But, how?"
"The Discipline of Animalism."
"Okayyyy..."
Chaska softly chuckles, "I summoned a spirit bear to assist me. Then, I entered into a...controlled Frenzy of sorts..." his voice trails off a bit.
He sighs and continues, "The rest is a blur of shouting, gunfire, and blood. A lot of blood."
He pauses for a few seconds, "By the end of it, I woke up in a shack, miles away from the motel. The sun was rising. And my head was pounding. There were bits and pieces of flesh, bone, and brains splattered all over me."
He grimaces and goes on, "I looked around the shack. The place was falling apart. Thankfully, there was a hatch nearby. So, I went down there. Turned out it was a small tunnel leading to a cave."
"You slept down there?"
"Yup. I pretty much drifted off. The sunrise does weird things to you when you're a vampire. After that, I woke up, got myself cleaned up, and walked out of there." He shrugs.
"You ever deliver that package to the Ventrue Prince?"
Chaska nods, "Mm-hmm. After that, I was released from my courier obligations. It seems the Prince's Sheriff wasn't too fond of the mess I had made. And I can't blame 'em."
"So, what happened after that?"
"I skipped town. I decided to go back to the Reservation. I had a lot of...sorting out to do. It was tough. Really tough. Still is." He sighs deeply and crosses his arms.
Maya directly asks, "Is there a lesson in all of this? No offense, but it feels like a long-winded sob story. You--you killed people." She immediately regrets saying that. Why is she so tactless sometimes?!
Chaska chuckles, "None taken, Usurper. As for the cops, I did what I had to do. I suppose the lesson would be this- there is safety in numbers. I decided to run with Lucas and his people from then on. He was and is a good leader, Maya."
"You and Prince Lucas go way back, huh?"
"Indeed. After the disappearance of his Sire, I mentored him a bit. Showed him a few neat tricks here and there. He used to work at a bar on the Reservation, so he knows how to mix a mean drink or two." Chaska smiles and looks over at the Prince, who is talking to a few other Ravnos.
"Prince Lucas did mention something about his Sire being a Native American. What happened to them?"
Chaska shrugs, "Ah, Cheveyo? I honestly do not know. He was one of the few Elders who foresaw what would happen in 1999."
Maya's lips quiver, "The Week Of Nightmares."
Chaska regards her for a few seconds, "You know about that? Huh."
He continues, "Yes, it was the worst time ever. The worst time to be anything- mortal, Kindred, Ghoul, or whatever." He shrugs and looks away.
Maya replies, "Something about your Antediluvian, Zapathasura, awakening and devouring all Ravnos. That's what Lucile told me, at least."
Chaska nods, "Yes, it was a terrible time, Maya. Many of our Clan were destroyed. It hasn't been the same since then, but we're slowly rebuilding, slowly growing again. Yet, there's still a lot of work to be done."
"I bet."
He pauses for a few moments, then continues, "Anyway, after Cheveyo's sudden disappearance, Lucas was pretty torn up about it. I guess that's where I came in. I did my best to comfort him and help him through those dark and tumultuous times."
"Was Cheveyo Beckoned or was it something else?"
"Probably. He was an Elder, after all, so it's possible he was Beckoned away. If he was, then it's a real shame. He was a good guy. I just hope he's alright, where ever he is."
"Even you miss him, don't you?"
Chaska pensively nods, "We all do. He was wise, kind, and very helpful. If he were still around, he would probably know what to do. Or at least give us some insight into the problems we're currently facing." He lets out a nervous chuckle.
He continues, "For us Ravnos, there's safety in numbers. We travel together, celebrate together, and yes..."
He gestures to the ground Frank is buried under, "...we also mourn together. We may be few and scattered, but we always try our best to stick together when times get tough. We have very few alternatives."
"So, you're constantly on the move, then? Never in one place for too long?"
"We are eternally Doomed, Usurper. The fire that incinerated our Clan's founder eons ago rages through our very Blood. If we ever settle down for too long, we're ash. Literally." He laughs nervously.
Maya shakes her head, "I'm so sorry, Chaska."
"Ahhh, don't be. It keeps us on our toes, haha. We are nomads, travelers. Our destiny is to roam the world, to never truly belong anywhere. To have no home." His voice cracks on the last part.
Maya places a hand on his shoulder, "But Plaintry's kinda your home now, isn't it?"
Chaska nods, "In a way. The Prince and the Sheriff are doing their best to make it feel that way, especially now."
He shrugs and messes with his ponytail, "Anyway, I have places to be, heh. Look, just don't make Prince Lucas's job any harder than it already is, OK?" His tone is final, yet gentle.
Maya nods, "OK, yeah. I'll do my best, haha. And thanks. I'm always interested in learning about the other Clans and getting their...perspective on things."
As she's walking away, Chaska calls out, "Oh, and one more thing, Maya!"
"Hmmm?" Maya turns around.
"May the spirits of the Blood guide you and keep you safe, Maya of Clan Tremere." He gives her a big smile and a wink.
Maya thanks him, nods, and walks away.
Prince Lucas is in the middle of a conversation with Sheriff Eunice and a few other Ravnos. Keith and Kelly are there, too!
They both wave to Maya. She waves back and asks how they're doing.
Keith replies, "Eh, fine."
Kelly seems a bit twitchy and agitated, "We're OK. Thanks." She looks away as she bites her fingernails.
Maya asks, "How was your evening, Keith? Anything new or interesting happen?"
Keith shrugs, "Nah. Not much. Just the usual. Finding a place to sleep during the day is...hard. But, we manage. Oh, and I found a nice, refurbished iPad at a thrift store, so we got some entertainment, at least."
Maya smiles, "Cool, cool!"
Kelly continues chewing on her fingernails and spitting out the pieces, "It's...alright." She avoids eye contact with Maya.
Maya notices this and asks, "Are you doing okay, Kelly?"
Kelly retorts, "I'm fine, I'm fine!" She storms off, mumbling to herself.
Keith sighs and rolls his eyes, "Don't mind her, Maya. She's been on edge since the Garou attack."
"Oh, anything I can do to help?"
Prince Lucas walks over and responds, "Work with Sheriff Eunice to find the Garou. Ascertain their...motives for attacking Frank and the others."
Sheriff Eunice stands there with a blank expression on her face, arms crossed, and a straight back. She says nothing.
Maya stammers, "I--I don't even know where to start looking, Prince Lucas. I'm new here, remember?"
He nods, "Of course, Maya. I understand." He turns to Sheriff Eunice, "Please, make sure you show her the ropes. Is that the correct expression? Anyway, I expect regular updates from the both of you." He pauses and looks around.
The Sheriff nods, "You can count on it, boss."
Maya silently nods. She has no idea how she's gonna go about this, let alone work with Sheriff Eunice. How the hell is she supposed to track down a group of Garou who are out to destroy Kindred?!
This is not a simple task for a Fledgling, that's for sure!
Keith reassures Maya, "Hey, don't worry. You'll do fine."
Maya sheepishly smiles, "Thanks, Keith."
She looks at Kelly, who's pacing around, mumbling and shaking her head.
Maya asks, "Is she OK, Prince Lucas?"
Prince Lucas dismisses her concerns, "She'll be fine. She's just a bit on edge. She hasn't spoken to or seen her family in months, and making a phone call is risky due to certain...reasons. Personal reasons."
He adds, "We all have our burdens, Maya."
Maya nods and says goodbye to Keith and Prince Lucas. She flashes a quick smile to Sheriff Eunice and leaves on her scooter.
Chaska joins the trio and watches her drive off. He whispers something to the Prince, who responds with a simple nod.
Sheriff Eunice speaks up, "Now, with Frank gone, you're gonna need a new right-hand man. Any suggestions?"
Prince Lucas looks at Chaska, "I believe Chaska will suffice. For the time being, at least."
Chaska happily accepts, "Yeah, sure. I'm down for it."
Eunice mutters, "Hmmm."
Prince Lucas asks, "Anyways, our meeting with Ms. Agnieszka Steiner was quite productive, wasn't it, Chaska?"
Chaska nods, "Yeah, she had a really nice place up in the hills--"
Keith interjects, "You sure we can trust this Lasombra?"
Prince Lucas smiles, "Well, Keith, she knows what she is talking about. Also, she seemed quite interested in my offer."
Keith shrugs, "If you say so. I'll leave all the politics to you. I gotta bounce. Catch you later! C'mon, Kelly!"
Keith grabs Kelly and they both walk away.
As they're leaving, the Sheriff asks Prince Lucas, "So, this Agnieszka? Are you planning on making her your Seneschal?"
Prince Lucas bluntly responds, "No, no, Eunice. Nothing so drastic and troublesome. I just want an...advisor, of sorts. Nothing more."
The Prince asks Chaska what his opinion of Ms. Steiner is.
Chaska responds, "Well, for a Lasombra going through a divorce, she's pretty decent, I guess." He pauses and chuckles, "Sharp and resourceful, too."
Prince Lucas says, "Before Plaintry, all the Lasombra we encountered during our travels were Sabbat, which was not a pleasant experience, to put it mildly."
Chaska laughs and nods, "That is an understatement. But, hey, at least SHE seems pretty level-headed and had the good sense to leave that nasty death cult, haha."
Sheriff Eunice sharply asks, "Hmmm. You sure she's totally abandoned them?"
Prince Lucas replies, "I am fairly certain she has, Sheriff Eunice. Why do you ask?"
Sheriff Eunice cracks her knuckles, "Just wanna be sure, Prince Lucas. Any Sabbat enter my town, and they will be dealt with. Swiftly. No survivors." Her tone is cold and brutal.
Prince Lucas says, "Your loyalty to the Camarilla is...admirable, for lack of a better term."
The Malkavian Sheriff looks around and says, "OK, then. I guess we're done here. Goodnight."
Chaska bows his head, "Goodnight, Childe of Malkav and may the spirits of the Blood watch over you."
She doesn't reply and simply walks away.
Chaska looks over to the fresh grave and sighs, "Frank will be missed."
He walks over to the grave and gets on one knee. He gently caresses the soil and murmurs, "Rest easy, old friend."
Prince Lucas looks around and sighs, "It has been a...rough night, Chaska."
"Indeed."
"I hope that I can trust you to be by my side? Becoming the Prince of a town was not something I expected when we were simply passing through this place, but what choice did I have? Hmmm?" He scratches his head.
"I've got your back. Always. Besides, this place could use a little love. After all, we've been through a lot of rough shit over the past few decades, huh?"
"Hmph, tell me about it. Still, I just didn't see things turning out...like this." There is a hint of remorse in the Prince's voice.
Chaska replies, "Well, think of this as a challenge. A test of your capabilities. Think of all the great things you could accomplish while leading this town! Think of how proud Cheveyo would be of you!"
Prince Lucas softly chuckles and smiles when his Sire's name is mentioned, "Have you heard anything from anyone about where Cheveyo might be, by any chance, Chaska? I mean, I have heard many rumors about where he may be, but no actual locations. Hmmm?"
Chaska sighs, "I've been looking into it for a while, now. All I turn up is one dead end after the other." He shakes his head and sighs deeply, "I'm sorry." He pauses to gather his thoughts.
Prince Lucas shakes his head, "It's alright, Chaska. I just have to keep...hoping that he's still out there, somewhere, somehow surviving..." He takes a deep breath. There are tears of blood forming in his eyes. He clenches his fists. His jaw is tightly clenched.
His lips tremble as wrinkles form on his face. He lowers his head and stares at his boots, "I...I..." His voice trails off. A single tear of blood falls on his boot. It stains the leather. He sniffles and wipes it with his finger.
Chaska asks, "What about the others in the garage?"
Prince Lucas simply responds, "They were just ash by the time they were found. They...had no chance against the Garou surprise attack. It's a pity." He lets out a small sigh. His face has a distant, dreamy look on it.
It is the look of one who is, in his own way, grieving the loss of those he cared about. It is also the look of someone who will not take this tragedy lightly and who is determined to bring those who have caused it to justice.
Chaska cranes his head towards the auditorium and says, "So, I should probably schedule a meeting for tomorrow night. Gimme the addresses of all the Clan representatives and I'll take care of the rest."
Prince Lucas nods, "Whatever you need, Chaska."
Maya is on her scooter and on her way to meet Nolene and just hang out. The night, after all, is still young.
The wind blows. Her undead heart is full of anticipation. She is anxious to get more involved with the Kindred of Plaintry.
Yet, there is a certain uneasiness deep down in her chest that she cannot quite put her (retractable) claw on just yet.
She accelerates down the lonely streets. Her tires screech. Her eyes are focused on the road. The wind blows, whipping her long, red hair in all sorts of directions.
In a few minutes, she's in front of Nolene's quaint little occult shop. She hops off her scooter and opens the door to the shop. The bells jingle.
Inside, the place looks fairly well-kept. Nolene is nowhere to be found.
Maya calls out, "Nolene? Hi, it's me. Maya. You...here?"
Nolene walks out of the backroom. She's wearing a striped blazer and trouser set along with some hoop earrings. She's carrying a small, leather-bound book in her hands.
Maya greets her, "H--Hey, Nolene!"
"Maya. How you doing, girl?"
Maya chuckles, "Ah, great, I guess. Um...wow, Nolene, you look really nice in that. You uh...got a date or something?"
Nolene scoffs, "Hmph, I wish. I was in court all evening." She grimaces.
Maya remarks, "Wow, that's um...unfortunate." She flashes a sympathetic smile.
Nolene shrugs, "Oh well, what the hell. Sit down, I'll grab us a drink and we can hang out."
"Uhhh, OK. Thanks, I guess." Maya follows Nolene to a round table near the back.
She points to the book Nolene is holding and asks, "So, what's in that book, Nolene? Anything interesting?"
"Haha, just some random stuff from my stock. It's...boring, honestly."
"Is it Kindred stuff?"
"Heh, it's hard to tell, Maya."
Nolene grabs 2 cups from a cabinet. She bends over to grab 2 bags of blood from a mini fridge. She then pours its contents into the cups and sets them on the table. She sits down opposite to Maya.
She says, "Here you go, Maya. Drink up. I hope you like it."
"Oh, huh. Thanks. I already...fed, but it'd be rude to say no. Thanks!"
"You're a growing vamp. You need that strength, girl. The blood will be good for you. Trust me."
Maya chuckles and sips on her cup, "It's so weird how we vampires are so...normal about this stuff."
Nolene holds her cup with both her hands, "Yeah. I was freakin' the fuck out after my Embrace. But, I guess that's to be expected."
Maya takes another sip of her blood, "Yeah, that's true. If there's one thing I'd change about being a vampire, it's not ever having to drink another drop of blood ever again. Hell, I'd even make it so that...lasagna is required for survival. Wouldn't that be wild?"
Nolene giggles, "Good to see a bloodsucker with a sense of humor. I knew someone who else loved lasagna, but that was a long time ago."
Maya leans forward, "Oh, who were they?"
Nolene sips her cup and sighs, "Someone I cared about," her voice cracks as she continues, "Someone I loved." She looks down at the table and shakes her head.
"I'm here if you wanna talk, Nolene." Maya offers her hand.
Nolene smiles weakly, "His name was Jacques. He was the Sheriff of this town. We had been together for a couple of years. I hadn't been with someone ever since my husband died."
Maya gasps, "I'm so sorry, Nolene."
Nolene lets out a long, drawn-out sigh and says, "Yeah, well, Jacques ain't gone."
Maya furrows her brows, "Wh--what do you mean?"
A look of resentment comes across Nolene's face, "That fool abandoned the town when it needed him the most."
"I...I don't think I follow, Nolene?"
Nolene groans and leans back into her chair, "Back in '99. When the town was attacked by Wights." She pounds the table with her fist.
Is that the official narrative they went with?
Maya cocks her head but doesn't immediately say anything. Lucile told her what exactly happened during 1999- The Week Of Nightmares and the Methuselah rampage.
Of course, after that, there had to be some kind of cover-up because what Nolene is saying is simply untrue. Or, was Lucile lying about the whole ordeal?
Maya dismisses the latter thought from her head. Lucile probably had a good reason for keeping CERTAIN things from Maya, but she'd never lie to her about something so important. Right?
Also, why didn't she ever tell Nolene anything? And, more importantly, why didn't Eleanor say anything?
Maya shakes her head and says, "I--"
Nolene clicks her tongue, "When we needed him the most, he skipped town. And I loved him. He left us. He left...me. All alone." Tears of blood stream down her face. She wipes them away with the back of her hand.
Maya simply nods, "I see."
She feels the urge to tell Nolene what REALLY happened that night- Jacques, the Toreador Sheriff of Plaintry, was violently destroyed by one of the Methuselahs. He simply stood no chance against that woman.
And yet, Maya also feels compelled to not disclose this particular piece of information. Lucile and Eleanor wanted to keep things quiet about the whole incident.
But why?
Maya sighs, "So...what exactly happened to Jacques?" She sips her cup, which is getting empty.
"I haven't seen that fool since '99, but I ever catch glimpse of him again, I'm gonna drive the biggest goddamn stake right through his heart!" She gets up from the table and storms off.
"He abandoned us. He abandoned ME! Aaaarg!" She angrily kicks a chair, causing some of her dusty occult knickknacks to fall onto the floor.
Nolene lets out an exasperated sigh, "He--he just left. No message, nothing. Just ran away when shit hit the fan!"
Maya flinches a bit as a knickknack rolls to her feet, "And what about the Prince? Did he--"
"Geoffrey was useless! He didn't have the guts to do nothing about it! He just came back from some trip with his stupid-ass friends and acted like everythin' was all fine and normal!" Nolene grits her teeth and punches a nearby wall. Her knuckles make a sickening thud.
Maya slowly gets up, heads over to Nolene, and places her hands on Nolene's shoulders, "It's OK, it's OK. If you don't wanna talk about it anymore, then that's fine."
"Yeah. I'm sorry about that."
"It's OK, Nolene. You don't have to apologize."
Nolene warmly smiles at Maya, "Thanks, girl."
She takes a deep breath and continues, "I just don't get it. I mean, they was supposed to contain the situation. Geoffrey didn't do nothing and just pretended like everything was normal. It--It makes no sense!"
"What was Geoffrey like?"
Nolene bends down to pick up the knickknacks that had fallen over, "Oh? He was...not a bad guy or anything. I just wish he had a little more spine. Anyway, he used to be a professor at the UOP."
"The UOP? You mean, like THE University Of Plaintry?"
Nolene nods and blows some dust of a knickknacks, "But then he got fired and the whole damn place shut down a few months later."
"Oh, right. A lotta older folk in this town remember the UOP fondly. I can't believe the former Prince was a Professor at that place. Huh." Maya thinks back to the many conversations she's had with this town's older folk.
Nolene lets out an exasperated sigh, "Yeah, he was something, that's for sure."
"It's a shame what happened to him and all the other Toreadors. I would have loved to meet some of 'em."
Nolene twitches and scrapes her fingers across a sharp object, "OW! Damn!"
Maya notices that Nolene is bleeding, "Nolene? What happened?"
Nolene grimaces as she lifts up her bleeding finger, "Shit. Sorry, I guess I got...clumsy. Never mind."
Nolene proceeds to pat the dust off her hand and lick the cut, "Ah, there. Who needs Band-Aid when you got tongue, hmm?"
Maya giggles and shakes her head, "Haha. Yeah." She notices something is off with Nolene. Something she cannot quite put her finger on.
Nolene looks at a nearby mirror and adjusts her afro. She spends the next minute or so, standing there, blankly looking at herself in the mirror, like she's...lost in thought or something?
Maya asks, "Hey, uh...Nolene? Are you okay?"
Nolene continues to stare at the mirror, "Hmm."
Maya steps closer and snaps her fingers, "Nolene? Hi? Hello?"
Nolene snaps out of whatever daze she was in, "Oh, Maya. Sorry. I was...I was...never mind." She shakes her head and sighs.
"It's OK, Nolene."
Nolene looks at Maya and smiles, "Y'know, I got a daughter."
"Oh, do--does she know that you're a--"
Nolene shakes her head, "I can't tell her that. No way, not now, not ever." She pauses for a few moments and says, "She's a paramedic. I sent her to live with some relatives when she was very young."
"Yeah, I'd imagine having a vampire for a mom would be kinda awkward at PTA meetings..."
Nolene softly laughs, "Heh, yeah. And her grandparents would probably pass out the second they saw me in the flesh."
Maya furrows her brows and asks, "I don't get it. Why don't you wanna tell her? I mean, I get the Masquerade and all, but still. Your own daughter, Nolene."
Nolene shrugs, "Well, I dunno. I...I guess I just wanna be a friend to her."
Maya almost screams out, "She knows you??"
"Yeah, she comes by the shop sometimes. However, I notice she's been kinda off lately."
"'Off' in what way??"
"She's always on edge. Always looking over her shoulder. Something ain't right, Maya." A look of worry comes across Nolene's face.
Maya asks, "You want me to talk to her or something?"
Nolene firmly states, "No."
Maya's lips curve into a polite smile, "OK. But I'm here if you need me, Nolene."
Nolene smiles and responds, "Thanks, girl."
Nolene looks over to the corner of the room. She gets up and heads over to a shelf. She grabs a package and heads over to Maya.
She hands the package to Maya, "Lucile ordered this a few weeks back. I guess it has something to do with her...experiments. Just came in a few hours back. Here ya go."
Maya graciously accepts the package. It is small and wrapped in brown paper.
She quickly unwraps the parcel and takes a look. There are a few vials of blood with an explicit warning to NOT consume it- the sticker of the skull and crossbones is in the middle of the label.
Underneath that, there is a note. It says: "Lucile, take this blood and mix it with a full cup of water. Purified water is preferable, but not mandatory. Leave it out in the sun for exactly 7 hours, then say the incantations. Repeat this process 7 more times."
There is an also attached receipt with the date and time. The payment has already been taken care of.
Maya nods, impressed by the thoroughness of these instructions, "Huh. That's...cool."
Nolene chimes in, "Yeah, Lucile's really good at that stuff, huh?"
Maya smiles from ear to ear, "Yep, she's...the best. I'm glad I met her." She places the vial back in the parcel and wraps it up again.
"Yeah, you 2 were meant for each other! Take it from someone who's been in love. Hold on to each other, tight." Nolene's eyes are filled with a hopeful glow.
Maya blushes, "Ahh, thank you, Nolene. It means a lot to hear that."
Nolene's expression changes as her eyebrows lower. She looks at Maya's brown eyes, "Those...eyes."
"Um...what?"
Nolene quickly shakes her head, "Ah, it was nothing. You got nice hair, Maya."
Maya strokes her red hair, "Thanks. And your 'fro is pretty awesome, too!" She chuckles.
Nolene softly smiles, "Aw, thanks. I try to maintain it." She sighs and sits down, "So, how has your night been so far?"
"Ehhh, it's been alright, I guess. You know about the Garou attack, right?"
"Yeah, I heard something about that. Werewolves, huh? Cray-zeee. I thought it was just us vampires." She takes a deep breath, "What happened, exactly?"
Maya looks down at the floor, "I--I don't really know. I just found their handiwork. I mean, me and Dylan found Frank's body. His arm was torn off."
She shudders and lets out a long sigh, "I'm not too keen on meeting a Garou anytime soon. I'm not the fighting type, y'know..." her voice trails off.
Nolene replies, "Neither am I, but I do what I gotta do if things get too crazy." She gets up and walks over to a drawer. She rummages around in it, looking for something.
She grabs a small shard of metal, "Here, take a look at this." She shows the object to Maya.
Maya nods and takes the object, "What's this??"
Nolene grins, "It's supposed to be a piece of a silver bullet."
"Really? Sweeet! Does it do anything?"
Nolene shrugs, "Honestly? I don't know. I just collect these things and sell 'em to people."
Maya's face brightens, "Can you show me where you buy them from?"
Nolene giggles, "It's a freakin' mess, Maya. Besides, my some of my suppliers are shady-ass types. They ain't the kinda people you wanna make friends with." She laughs nervously.
"You sure know your way around these things, Nolene."
"Eh, what can I say. I got a knack for the...unusual."
"All of us Tremere have a knack for the unusual."
Nolene gulps and weakly smiles, "Yeah...us Tremere. Sure."
Maya tosses the shard of metal into the air and catches it, "So, do you need this or--?"
Nolene holds up her hand, "Keep it. It's on the house, Maya."
"Thanks, Nolene!" She pockets the shard and asks, "How'd you get it?"
Nolene grimaces and says, "Some Malkavian sends me the randomest shit. It's like he thinks I'm his personal storage unit or something."
"Huh, cool."
"Yeah, that's one way of putting it."
"So, who's he supposed to be?"
"Dunno. We just exchange messages and chat on some occult forum every so often."
"Cool. Well, try and keep an eye out for any more silver. If we gotta fight Garou, I'll need all the help I can get."
"Will do."
Maya scratches the back of neck and asks, "You said you were married. What happened to your husband, if you don't mind me asking. I'm sorry if that's too personal."
Nolene shrugs, "Don't worry about it. It was a while ago, but the gist of it is he died in a workplace accident."
"I'm so sorry, Nolene."
"Yeah, well, I had to go through it all alone. I've had many bad days...and nights since then." She sniffles, "He was my first love and a good father to our daughter. He...he meant the world to me."
"I'm sure he did."
Maya hugs Nolene.
Nolene smiles and says, "Thanks, Maya."
"No problem, Nolene."
Maya and Nolene sit there, sipping their cups of blood, enjoying each other's company. The night is still young.
They spend a few hours talking about different subjects and laughing at their jokes.
However, as the clock strikes 1 AM, Nolene gets up and stretches her arms. Maya follows suit.
Nolene looks at Maya and says, "Well, you're welcome to stay as long as you like, Maya. But, I gotta close up the store."
Maya asks, "So, where's your Haven, Nolene? Is it close to the shop?"
Nolene chuckles and shakes her head, "It's in the basement of the shop. It's a pretty cozy place. I like it there. It's a bit messy at the moment, maybe I'll show it to ya another time?"
Nolene walks to the door and holds it open, "See ya around, Maya."
The bells jingle.
Nolene waves goodbye and says, "Don't be a stranger, girl! You're welcome here anytime!"
Maya waves back, "You too, Nolene. I'd love to have you visit our place!" She gets on her scooter and rides away into the night.
Maya heads back to her Haven. She smiles to herself as she looks at the quaint cottage from afar.
She speeds up and reaches her new place. She parks her scooter nearby.
She notices a black SUV parked nearby.
Eleanor is standing at the front door of her home. She is looking up at the moon, deep in thought.
Maya greets her, "Eleanor! Hiiii! What are you doing here?"
Eleanor greets her Childe, "Greetings, Childe. Where have you been?"
"Ah, out and about, y'know. It's a beautiful night, isn't it?" She smiles.
"Yes, it is. However, I came here for a different reason entirely."
"Oh?"
Eleanor doesn't say another word and walks to the backyard. She beckons Maya to follow her.
Maya follows Eleanor and asks, "So, what's up?"
"I would like to show you something."
"OK..."
Eleanor kneels down and points to the slightly disturbed patch of ground in the backyard, "Do you recognize this, Maya?"
Maya nods, "So, this is where you buried those 2..."
"Yes, Childe. The ground is a bit disturbed as you can see. Even now, these vile Methuselahs stir within the earth."
"Is--is that normal? Like, is the soil supposed to do that?"
Eleanor blandly responds, "Perhaps. Which is why we must apply a Blood Ward to keep them...pacified. It is the only way to ensure the safety of your Haven."
"But, I'm not sure I can--"
Eleanor holds up her hand, "Do not worry, Childe. It is a fairly simple procedure. I assume you have hunted tonight?"
Maya nods.
"Good, then, cut your finger and place some of your Vitae on the earth. After that, repeat after me."
Maya follows her Sire's instructions. She cuts her finger with her sharp claw and drops some of her blood onto the disturbed patch of ground.
Eleanor slits her palm with her fingernail and lets some of her own blood fall on the same patch of earth.
She then says, "I call upon The Pyramid."
Maya does the same thing and says, "I call upon The Pyramid."
"The power of The Seven flows through me and binds me."
"The power of the Seven flows through me and b--binds me."
"The Order Of Hermes is my lamp."
"The Order Of Hermes is my lamp."
"The Magus shall protect us from harm."
"Um...The Magus shall protect us from harm."
Eleanor stifles a sigh and continues, "By the power of Fedoso, I bind these creatures, these fiends and the darkness they harbor."
Maya nods and repeats the sentence.
Eleanor adds, "Let that which is below, stay below. Let that which is under, remain under."
"Let that which is below, stay below. Let that which is under, remain...under."
Eleanor bends down and draws a circle with the mixed Vitae. She then closes the circle with some sharp lines and symbols.
She adds more of her own Vitae to the circle and whispers something in an unknown language.
Maya isn't sure if she's supposed to follow, so she just stands there, watching her Sire use the power of Blood Sorcery to keep these 2 Methuselahs in their below-ground prison (of sorts).
Eleanor stands up and licks her palm. She looks at Maya and simply says, "Acceptable." She sighs and shakes her head.
Maya lowers her head and scratches her arm, "I'm trying my best, Eleanor."
"Be that as it may, your confidence is lacking, Childe. You must have confidence in yourself and in your abilities. You are a Tremere, after all." She crosses her arms.
Maya quickly nods, "I know, I know. And I'm already starting to feel that Compulsion for Perfectionism, but I'm still new to all of this."
Eleanor walks over to Maya and places her hands on Maya's shoulders, "That excuse will not last forever, Childe. At the very least, you should be able to raise your Auspex Levels as the nights go by."
"Sure, I...I can do that."
"Hmm. Will there be anything else, Childe?"
"Uh, yeah, actually. What do you know about the Baali Clan?"
Eleanor tilts her head, stares Maya down, and sternly asks, "Where did you hear of that Clan?" Her tone is icy and uncompromising.
Maya stammers and steps back a bit, "Uh...um, you told me about it during our talks." A boldfaced lie (that she might be able to get away with due to Eleanor's...forgetfulness).
The Elder Tremere rapidly blinks and rubs her chin, "I do not...recall ever telling you about Clan Baali."
She pauses for a few moments and asks, "What else do you know of them?" She crosses her arms. Her eyes are focused on Maya.
Maya avoids eye contact, "Uh, something about them being able to Re-Embrace Kindred?" She nervously chuckles.
Eleanor's lips curve into a polite smile, "Yes, that is correct, Childe. They are the only ones capable of such a deed. Moreover, they are extremely dangerous and unpredictable."
Maya mutters to herself, "You could say the same thing about the Lasombra."
"What was that, Childe?"
"N--Nothing. So, hypothetical question, if a Baali were to enter Plaintry, what would you do?" Maya asks, trying her best to sound nonchalant.
Eleanor's expression changes as she furrows her brows, "I would, in all likelihood, destroy them." Her voice is grim and calculated.
"Oh--oh, ok. Would you destroy a Lasombra, too?" Maya asks, still trying to sound casual.
Eleanor doesn't respond.
Maya scratches the back of her neck and lets out an awkward smile, "Just hypotheticals here, Eleanor. I'm not gonna go around looking for trouble or anything. Promise."
"Trouble, my dear Childe, has a way of finding us Kindred." She pauses for a few beats and adds, "However, I trust you to not do anything foolish, Maya."
Maya smiles and nods.
"Is there anything else on your mind, Childe? Anything at all?"
"Why didn't you or Lucile tell Nolene what really happened to Sheriff Jacques back in 1999?"
Eleanor raises her chin a bit and says, "Ah, so you 2 have been talking about that, hmm?" She lets out a small sigh.
"Yeah, and I don't get it. I mean, why lie to her about it? Why not tell the truth? She thinks he skipped this town and abandoned his duties."
Eleanor replies, "I did not wish to cause her any undue distress. She has enough on her plate as it is."
Maya shakes her head, "She HATES him, Eleanor. She used to be in love with him, now she has nothing but contempt for him."
Eleanor replies, "Sheriff Jacques knew the risks involved--"
"NO ONE did, Eleanor! He and those Nosferatu were sent on a suicide mission! And for what? To serve as a punching bag for 2 Methuselahs!" Maya's voice is raised. She is visibly upset.
Maya doesn't allow Eleanor to speak. She continues, "I mean, you and Lucile barely survived those fuckers! I--It was thanks to Theodore that you're both here, right now." She sighs loudly.
Eleanor simply nods. Her expression is blank. She doesn't say anything.
Maya continues, "So, I just don't get it. WHY did you and Lucile keep it from her? At least give her some closure. Let her know that he didn't just leave her behind."
Eleanor calmly replies, "I will give consideration to it, Childe."
Maya rolls her eyes, "I guess I gotta keep my mouth shut about this when I see Nolene again?"
"It would be preferable, yes."
Maya groans, "Gah. Anyway, when do I get to meet Mr. Theodore? He did save you and Lucile all those years ago and he sounds like a pretty cool guy."
Eleanor replies, "He is currently...busy at the moment."
"Any idea when he'll be free? I really REALLY wanna meet the other Tremere in this town, Eleanor!"
"In time, Childe. In time."
Maya looks around and remarks, "It's just so sad, Eleanor."
"What is?"
"Jacques. H--He was destroyed right around here while you and Lucile watched. I can't imagine how horrifying that must have been for you both." Maya shudders in fear.
Eleanor dryly replies, "Yes, it was quite traumatic, but we had to press on. Those Methuselahs had to be stopped, one way or the other."
Maya asks, "What happened after all of...that?"
"Lucile chose this cottage as her Haven. Theodore and a few other Tremere assisted in the renovations and paperwork."
"I know that, but what happened happened, y'know? Like, behind the scenes and all that?"
"It is improper to dwell on such things, Childe. Besides, the past is the past. We cannot change it. We can only learn from it." Eleanor's tone is blunt and uncompromising.
Maya sighs, "So, you covered it all up, then?"
"If that is what you wish to believe, then feel free to do so, Childe. Our entire existence is, after all, a cover-up," Eleanor blandly states.
Maya grumbles, "Hmphhh. I guess." She gestures to the ground and asks, "So, how long will this Blood Ward keep those 2 down? Also, have you found a better place to move 'em to?"
Maya looks down and frowns at the disturbed patch of ground, "It feels kinda...scary having them near our Haven."
Eleanor replies, "We are looking at expanding the House of Hermes. It is not an easy task, but it is necessary now more than ever. As for the Blood Ward, it should hold for a few weeks."
"Cool, cool."
Eleanor looks directly at Maya and says, "However, I strongly recommend you learn how to apply a Blood Ward, Childe. It is a fairly simple procedure, but it is one that is quite useful."
Maya nods, "I'll try my best, Eleanor." She looks to the side and plays with her hair.
Eleanor replies, "I am certain you will, Childe." She turns around and walks away.
Maya calls out, "Eleanor, wait!"
Eleanor stops in her tracks, "What is it, now?"
"Um...thanks. For everything, really. I mean it, Eleanor. Yo--You're a great Sire and I'm truly grateful for all you've done for me so far." Maya sincerely smiles.
Eleanor simply nods, "Very well, Childe. Do not disappoint us. Good night." She walks away.
Maya sighs and heads back inside. She throws herself on the couch and lays her head back.
"Helluva night. Sheesh!"
She looks at the clock and sees that she has a few more hours till sunrise. She yawns and stretches her arms. She gets up and heads downstairs to her bedroom.
She grabs her laptop, undresses, and gets comfy on her bed. She puts on some music and starts browsing the internet.
One thought nags away at the back of her mind: FBI Special Agent Björn Henrickson, the Baali (with his 8 feet tall shadow "buddy").
She hopes he'll do the right thing and present himself to Prince Lucas, but let's be real, he won't.
Was she wrong in withholding information from the Prince? From her Sire?
Maybe.
But, then again, she doesn't want to add to the growing list of problems. Especially since the Garou attack is still fresh on everyone's minds.
She sighs and increases the volume of her music. She scrolls through a few job search sites.
The sun is yet to rise. Maya has a few hours to herself. She types away on her keyboard, has multiple tabs open, and browses the web.
She checks her email and notices no new messages (apart from the ones from various media outlets "seeking comment"). She batch deletes those and groans.
She then goes back to another browser tab and opens up a forum website. She browses through the threads, looking for any interesting topics.
It's the website she was (and still is) a part of. It's all to do with vampires. People here claim to have encounters (mostly sexual ones) with what they strongly believe to be vampires.
Now that Maya is an actual vampire, she has to tread carefully when posting on these forums. She can't reveal too much, lest she violates the Masquerade.
She chuckles and grimaces as she browses through the various threads.
Maya debates closing her account entirely, but decides against it. She might need to use it for future purposes.
She goes back to the main page and scrolls through the latest posts.
After seeing the same claim for the 1000th time, Maya decides she's had enough Internet for one night. She closes her laptop and puts it aside.
She lays back on her bed and stares at the ceiling, "Ah, Lucile...if only you were here. I miss you so so much."
Maya grabs Lucile's Samsung Galaxy S8 Plus and decides to look through it. Lucile couldn't take it because the SI monitors nearly everything on nights such as these.
She finds a lot of text messages from antique dealers all across the country. Apparently, that's how Lucile sources most of the blood needed for her Thaumaturgical experiments.
Heh, go figure.
A few "rare antiques" are expected to arrive in a couple of weeks. Maya assumes they're blood vials and such. They've already been paid for and nothing is priced below 3 digits.
She also finds a few pictures of herself. There are also some selfies Lucile took with Maya. Maya giggles and smiles.
For fun, Maya takes a selfie with Lucile's phone and sends it to herself.
Maya spends the next hour or so looking through her girlfriend's phone. She laughs and smiles as she goes through the various texts, photos, and videos.
"Ha ha ha ha! Oh my God, Lucile! You're so hilarious!" She wipes away a tear of blood from her eye.
Maya puts the phone down and yawns. She looks at the time.
Yep, it's almost sleepy time. The sun is slowly rising and Maya can feel the effects of the dawn. She's getting sluggish and tired.
She puts Lucile's phone aside and closes her eyes.
In time, she drifts off to the inevitable day-sleep. As do all the other Kindred in this part of the world.
Fast forward to the afternoon...
The sun is brightly shining and beaming down on Plaintry. The streets are bustling with activity.
A bunch of cars are parked near The Gastronova restaurant.
Tim, Bernice's assistant, is standing near the entrance and talking to someone on his phone.
"Yes, Bernice. They'll be here soon. Of course, the VIP section on the first floor. Of course, of course. Sure, see you soon! Bye!" He hangs up and adjusts his yellow bowtie.
He looks around and mutters to himself, "Who the hell is gonna bother, anyway?" He shrugs and walks inside.
He makes his way to the first floor and watches as the staff quickly sets up the tables and chairs.
He paces around the room, making sure everything is in order.
He looks out the window and sees a few people milling about. He grumbles to himself, "Just come in already..."
Eventually, Bernice's (former) campaign staff members start arriving. They pour into the restaurant and head upstairs.
They sit down at the various tables and get comfy. Some individuals gasp and groan at the prices of some of the dishes.
Tim approaches them and says, "Good afternoon, everyone. I hope you're all doing well today."
A man in a blue aloha shirt and dark slacks shakes his head, "This is a send-off party, isn't it?"
Another individual in a brown blazer and olive slacks scoffs, "We all know it's over, Tim. Why is Bernice even doing this, anyway?"
Tim raises both hands in a placating gesture and attempts to calm down the disgruntled individuals, "Look, Bernice just wanted to do something nice, OK?"
A person in a beige suit loudly asks, "Where is she, anyway?!"
A man in a red flannel shirt and dark jeans smacks the table, "Does she really expect us...to just forget about what happened?!"
Tim groans but does his best to keep his calm, "We've already been over this. It's no use pointing fingers or naming names, alright? Just...let it go." He lowers his head and sighs.
"Maya fucking Weekes! That's who! Fuckin' chatty BITCH!" another voice bellows. People nod and grumble in agreement.
Tim shakes his head, "There's no need to do any of that. And, please, keep it down. This is a respectable place." He gestures to the people downstairs. Some of them are looking upwards.
Others are craning their necks to see what the commotion is. A few waiters are looking around and trying to determine whether stepping in and dealing with this is an official part of their job.
"Yeah, we're not talking shit. We're stating facts, Tim!"
A woman in a dark pencil skirt and off-white blouse laughs and asks, "Then, how else do ya explain why we're here today and not, y'know, trying to win an election?!"
Tim rubs his temples, "What's done is done. We can't go back and change things now. Point is, we just gotta accept it and move on."
A man in a polo shirt groans and asks, "Move on?! Easy for you to say, buddy! But some of us got reputations to uphold! You really think anyone's gonna give us a second look now?! No fucking way!"
He looks down at his hands, which are clenching into fists. He lets out a sigh as a man next to him tries to calm him down, "OK, OK, easy now. Easy."
Tim is getting agitated by the second. He angrily asks himself where Bernice is. He scratches his head and looks out the window.
Nope. No Bernice yet.
"Where is she?! Damnit..."
A person removes a pair of earphones and says, "Hey, let's get something to eat." A few individuals nod their heads in agreement.
A person wearing a faded brown suit asks, "What's a paneer?"
"Cottage cheese, I think. Yeah, let's get a few plates. Hey, Tim! Bernice is paying for this, right?"
Tim silently nods and goes back to nibbling on his fingers. He stares out the window, watching and waiting for his boss.
People slowly make their way to the ground floor of The Gastronova, but still no sign of Bernice.
30 minutes become 1 hour. 1 hour becomes 80 minutes. 80 minutes turn into an...hour and a half.
Waiters and waitresses walk up and down the stairs, bringing and taking away plates of food.
Tim does his best to maintain the illusion of a normal lunch. But, it's getting increasingly hard for him to do so.
Some individuals look around, confused. Others simply shrug and go back to their pork satays.
Bernice is the last to arrive. Eventually. "Fashionably late," as they say. She's resplendent in hot pink suit, ruby earrings, and white pumps. She's dressed to the nines. Her smile is beaming as she enters.
She takes off her Versace sunglasses. Her makeup is impeccably applied. Her hair is combed, straightened, and shiny. It's as if she stepped straight off a high-end fashion show.
The other people stop their conversation as soon as she enters. All eyes turn to the former mayoral candidate. Waiters and waitresses watch in awe, jaws hanging open.
Customers from the ground floor look up at her. They look at one another, whisper, and talk amongst themselves.
Some individuals in the crowd recognize Bernice. Some even take a quick picture or two.
The tabloids would kill for that kind of stuff.
Bernice takes it all in, the eyes on her, the attention, the muttering, and the envy. She relishes in it and takes a deep breath.
She does a curtsy nod and confidently strides to the first floor. Tim is in the corner, arms folded, moping. He's barely eaten a thing. Bernice shakes her head and approaches her assistant.
Tim doesn't make eye contact with his boss, "There you are! What took you so long?! We're almost done and--hey--"
He stops his sentence and just stares at his (former) boss, "My god, Bernice. You look amazing."
"Why, thank you, Tim."
Even the others put their utensils down and just look at Bernice, almost mesmerized.
Bernice gestures around the first floor, "So, is this everyone, Tim?"
"A few said no. That's to be expected, but this is most of 'em, Bernice."
Bernice slowly walks around the area and looks at her former campaign staff, "Oh, no, please continue. I was...held up." She chuckles.
A man with a red shirt and chinos says, "We...uh were gettin' hungry, Bernice. And you're paying, so yeah."
A few of Bernice's supporters from the ground floor cheer and clap at her. The rest either nod their heads, roll their eyes, or just ignore the spectacle.
A woman with shaggy blonde hair approaches Bernice and eagerly shakes Bernice's hands, "I believed in you, Bernice. A--And I still do!"
Bernice warmly smiles, "Thank you for your support."
The woman responds, "Don't worry, I've already blacklisted that stupid redhead from my store. She's not gonna be getting anything from us anymore."
The other individuals laugh at this, some give her a thumbs-up and cheer her on. Bernice maintains her smile and says nothing.
Tim approaches Bernice and takes her to a corner, "They...really hate that redhead after what she said. Or did. You might...wanna, y'know, tell 'em to tone it down a bit?"
Bernice shrugs and simply says, "Why would I, Tim? She sank my career with her tongue. Sure, I'm not as peeved as others are, but that's because I know how to control my anger."
She stroke's her assistant's cheek with her manicured nail, "And they should probably learn that, too."
Tim stammers and lowers his head, "It's just that...we don't want anyone trying anything funny. What if someone got the idea to go to her place and do some crazy shit to it? Or--or to her. I dunno..." his voice trails off.
Bernice replies, "Hmm, I see what you mean, Tim. If such a thing were to happen, then we'll simply disavow and distance ourselves from it, won't we, darling?"
Tim gulps a bit, "Yeah, yeah, of course. Just wanted to give a heads-up is all..."
Bernice softly laughs, "You've done so, Tim. And, don't worry about the bills. I'll pay for everything on this lovely afternoon. Now, go, eat something."
Tim nods and asks one of the waiters for a menu.
Bernice sits down at one of the empty tables and takes in the ambiance of the restaurant. People are eating, drinking, and talking.
A few individuals occasionally glance in her direction, some of them nod. Others smile. While others give her...suggestive looks.
Tim approaches Bernice's table with his order of Lobster Thermidor. He sits down across from Bernice, "I'm...I'm really sorry this happened, Bernice."
Bernice rests her chin on her clasped hands and looks around, "Yes, well, what can we do about it now? Life is a series of disappointments and regrets. One must simply press forward and adapt."
Tim sighs and grabs a napkin to put over his lap. He pokes and prods his lobster with the fork and knife.
After a few minutes, Bernice's order arrives. She's ordered a plate of Salmon Wellington. It's steaming hot and smells absolutely delightful.
Tim asks, "Is it...Is it really over, Bernice?"
"Hmm?" Bernice looks up from her dish, a billow of steam obscuring her vision, "Ah, the campaign, you mean. Well, of course it is. I wouldn't have withdrawn if I could still salvage something from the wreck."
She pauses and adjusts her hair, "The truth is, it would have been far more humiliating and costly for the Party had I insisted on staying in."
She sips some white wine from a round glass and continues, "Besides, this'll all die down in a couple of weeks."
Tim swallows his food, "But the stigma, Bernice. Y--You slept with the woman writing a piece on you!"
"All the more reason for my withdrawal, Tim." She takes a bite out of her meal and looks down. She's frowning, clearly annoyed at the situation.
Tim squeezes some lime on his lobster and remarks, "You were...so close, too. I'm...I'm just really sorry about all of this."
He then asks, "What about the donors, Bernice?"
Bernice cuts up a small piece of her food and eats it. She replies, "I've been on the phone with them for the past few days...and nights. Many are quite disappointed. Some even want their donations back, in full."
She takes a deep breath, "It's been difficult for them to accept this development."
"I can imagine. Have you spoken to...Annette?"
"Come, now, Tim. You're starting to sound like one of those tabloid journalists. You know better than that."
Bernice sips some more wine from her glass, "The whole thing...was messy to begin with. She already had her side of the story out while we were still putting out the fires."
Tim sneers, "And it all snowballed down from there..."
Bernice and Tim spend the rest of their meal in relative silence. Bernice is interrupted by a supporter or 2 who wish to take a selfie with her. She, of course, obliges them.
The afternoon slowly dies down. The lunch rush slowly comes to an end. After a while, everyone finishes up their food and gets up to leave. Some people linger and wish to speak with Bernice.
Others simply wave, wipe their hands, and leave the restaurant.
Bernice looks at her lipstick stained glass and smiles. Tim removes his bowtie and undoes the top 2 buttons of his shirt.
"So, what now?" he asks as he looks around.
Bernice leans forward, "I'll have to let the others go, of course. But, I'd like you to continue on as my assistant. I can't imagine doing this all alone, Tim. I simply cannot."
Tim raises an eyebrow, "Of course, Bernice! But, what are you planning on doing next??"
Bernice looks at her nails and casually replies, "I've got some plans. There's no need to panic, Tim. Everything will be alright, you'll see."
Tim sighs, "If you say so, Bernice. If you say so."
Bernice confidently replies, "Oh, I do say so, Tim. I do...say so."
Tim asks, "So, how's the whole...thing with your parents, y'know?" He pauses for a second. He can sense her hesitation and discomfort when he brings it up.
She shrugs, "Nothing new. Still the same old kangaroo court nonsense. Speaking of, I did get a very interesting call yesterday evening."
"Oh, really?"
"Yes. A very raspy voiced gentleman by the name of Titus from a law firm I've never heard of before."
"Huh?"
"Tenebris Legal. Yes, this man said he could have the cases against my parents tossed out in under a month."
"Seriously?! You mean--whoa! That's amazing, Bernice!"
Bernice takes out a napkin and dabs the sides of her mouth, "Yes, Tim. It certainly is. Maw-maw and pops are going to be pretty thrilled about it, I reckon."
Tim smiles, "Well, this has turned into a pretty decent day after all! Good to hear something...positive for a change."
Bernice places her napkin on the table and takes a final sip of her wine, "Still, that wasn't the only offer I received."
Tim arches an eyebrow, "What do you mean?"
Bernice looks around and lowers her voice, "An...FBI agent by the name of Higgins came to see me after I announced my withdrawal from the mayoral race. He was pretty vague about his offer, but it sounded equally promising."
"You...don't sound convinced, Bernice."
She shrugs and says, "Not entirely. Still, his offer is not something I'm completely opposed to."
Tim nods, "Hmm. You uh...got a lot to think about, huh?"
"Indeed, Tim. So, how have you been keeping? Have the police found any leads on who did that awful thing to poor Kendra?"
He shakes his head and grunts, "Not really, no. They keep saying the same old shit and just making more empty promises. Like that's gonna nail the sick bastards who drained her!" He scoffs and crosses his arms.
He then asks, "Y--You know what the cause of her death was?"
"Exsanguination, Tim. Terrible. I'm truly sorry for your loss."
Tim lowers his head, "Th--Thanks, Bernice. I just need something to do. Something to stay focused on, to get my mind off--" tears well up in his eyes.
He sniffles and wipes away his tears, "It's not been easy these past few weeks. Not at all." His voice cracks. He sounds desperate and sad.
Bernice simply nods her head and rubs her thumb across Tim's shaking hand, "Now, how about we get some dessert before we leave? Hmm, what do you say?"
Tim shakily nods, "You d--don't mind? It's a pretty pricey place, Bernice."
Bernice dismissively waves her hand and proudly says, "Let me worry about that. Now, go on. Choose something nice."
"O--OK, sure. Sure, if you say so." He gestures for a waitress to come over to their table. He orders a piece of gold-sprinkled truffle cake. Bernice orders 3 Luxe Flavored Baklavas.
The waitress smiles and nods, "Sure thing." She speedily walks away.
Bernice chuckles, "One of my exes back in college introduced me to Baklavas." She licks her lips.
Tim fidgets with his fingernails and tears off a bit of skin, "Oh?"
Bernice nods, "Yes. I didn't like them at first, but he insisted. And, eventually, I came around to the idea." She smirks.
Tim clears his throat, "Bernice, I uh...wanted to ask you something."
Bernice leans back in her seat, "Go ahead."
Tim stammers, "I--I don't know if this is the right time o--or place..."
He looks around to make sure no one is within hearing distance. He leans forward and says, "I'd like to resume our...sessions, Bernice."
Bernice purses her lips and gently smiles, "Ah."
Tim gulps as Bernice's gaze becomes even more intense. He continues, "I've been thinking about it a lot lately. I--It helps me think straight when I'm with you. When you're--"
Bernice interjects, "In charge." She maintains her look of confidence and her voice is level and calm as can be. She's clearly enjoying this.
"Y--Yes. And, and I don't want you going easy on me, like before. I want...more." There is a certain hunger in his voice.
Desperation, sadness, loneliness. One, more, or all of them, perhaps.
Tim wipes away a bead of sweat from his forehead, "And...I thought, well, I thought maybe you could use the...y'know," he nervously laughs.
Without skipping a beat, Bernice gently nods, "Of course, Tim. I'd be glad to pick up where we left off. And I'd be glad to see what you can do. For me." Her smile is warm, but her eyes are cold.
The waitress arrives with Tim's cake and Bernice's Baklavas. She does a quick bow and leaves the 2 be.
Tim emptily stares at the sprinkles of gold on his truffle cake, "I'm...I'm ready."
A smile of satisfaction comes across Bernice's face, "Good. But first, I'll need to draw up a contract."
Tim takes his first bite, "Why can't we just use the old one?"
Bernice shakes her head and picks up her first Baklava, "The...old way of doing things is simply not going to work for us anymore, Tim. You must be more than willing, is that clear?" She takes half a bite.
She savors the taste, and then says, "After...what happened, things might not be able to go back to being the way they used to."
"Sure, I get that. I'll sign anything."
Bernice nods and elegantly eats the next half of her Baklava. She smiles, "Excellent."
"So, uh, should I come by tonight? Or will you--"
"Hmmm, eager, aren't we? No, no. It's too soon. Besides, you're not my only client, Tim. You have to earn your place. But, rest assured, you'll have your chance. I promise you that."
Bernice picks up the next piece, "Just not tonight, darling." She pops it in her mouth and winks at him.
Tim nods and looks at the remaining piece of Baklava on Bernice's plate.
Bernice breaks it in half and tells Tim, "Open up."
Tim looks around to make sure no eyes are watching them.
Bernice places the half-baklava on his tongue. Tim closes his mouth and waits for the command to chew and swallow.
Bernice eats her half and nods her head, "Good. I'll see you when I'm ready, hmm? Now, finish up."
Tim chews, swallows his piece, and nods, "Sure. Sure. Whatever you want, Bernice."
Tim goes back to eating the rest of his truffle cake. He grabs a clean fork and offers Bernice a bite.
She gracefully accepts. After a few more bites, Tim looks up and asks, "So, what now, Bernice? What do you plan on...doing now that the campaign is over?"
She shrugs, "Oh, I've got plenty of ideas, Tim." Her tone is ominous, but confident.
"Uh, whatever they are, I'll be there, Bernice. By your side." His eyes are filled with admiration and need.
"You always have been, Tim." She wipes the corners of her mouth with a napkin and gets up.
She reaches over and wipes his mouth, too.
She adjusts her suit and fluffs her hair. She raises her head up high and walks to the middle of the room.
Bernice grabs a champagne glass in her hand and gently hits it with a knife. She clears her throat and everyone's attention turns to her.
Even the other customers stop their conversations and look up. The waiters and waitresses watch intently.
"Ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for coming here on this lovely afternoon. I wanted to thank each and every one of you for your support and your continued generosity in these trying times." She pauses and takes a deep breath as her eyes glide across the room.
"I must admit, it has not been easy. For any of us. We were so close. The polls were going our way. The crowds, the media, they all loved us and, yet, they were taken from us in the blink of an eye--"
One of the former campaign staff members screams out, "More like the running of the mouth!"
Bernice maintains her composure, "Yes, well, let us not get bogged down in the details--"
"FUCK MAYA WEEKES!" another individual yells.
Some people cheer at this, but the majority of the crowd simply groans, shake their heads, or grumble.
Bernice takes a moment before continuing, "Well, as I said, let us not dwell on the past. For, we must look ahead. We must move forward. And we must not forget who it was that enabled us to make it this far."
She places a hand over her heart, and raises her glass of sparkling champagne to all those who've still decided to linger around.
She looks around the restaurant and nods her head, "To Plaintry and to the United States Of America! Cheers!" she raises her glass and the others follow suit.
Tim applauds her, almost a bit too eagerly.
The former campaign staff members are clearly uncomfortable, but they raise their glasses and take a sip of their drinks anyway.
Bernice looks around the room, "It is, undoubtedly, with a heavy heart that I must let you go, but know this, I will always remember you." She lets out a smile that would probably make a baby laugh (or cry).
Politicians...
Some acknowledge her, some gently clap, while others record her. They're already uploading this to the usual places- Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, etc.
Eventually, the crowd dissipates and they start to make their way out of the restaurant after saying their final goodbye to Bernice.
She greets everyone and thanks them for coming. It was a good campaign while it lasted.
That's what she tells herself, at least.
Bernice asks a waiter to bring the cheque.
The waiter blushes and looks at the waitress standing next to him. He nods his head, "Sure." He goes to retrieve the cheque.
Tim is in the bathroom, washing up.
A balding man with a drawn face approaches Bernice. He's wearing a navy blue suit and brown moccasins. He curtly bows his head and presents Bernice with the cheque.
Bernice opens it, scans it, and doesn't even bat an eyelid. She reaches into her small purse and places a credit card inside the cheque.
She nods and hands it over to the man.
He hands it over to a waiter and stretches out his hand, "I'm Mr. Janus. Co-owner of The Gastronova. Pleased to meet you, Ms. Matthews."
Bernice shakes his hand, which feels a bit rough and clammy, "Mr. Janus. This is truly a fine establishment you have here." She lets out a small laugh.
Janus laughs as well, "Yes, we believe in providing only the best. And keeping...undesirables out." He lets out a smile that reveals a few rotten teeth and a few golden dental crowns.
Bernice returns the smile, "You've done a great job so far."
He chuckles, "Of course. It is a shame about your campaign. I was planning on voting for you. You would've been good for business."
She chuckles and places a hand on her chest, "Well, it is what it is, Mr. Janus. I'm sure The Gastronova will continue to do very well."
Janus nods and glances around, "Oh, of course. The Gastronova will be going strong for many years to come. Perhaps longer."
Bernice asks, "Where is the owner of this fine establishment, if you don't mind me asking."
Janus vaguely replies, "Mr. Grayson is...currently unavailable at the moment. But, rest assured, he conveys his best wishes. He will be hearing about your visit." That last part sounds ominous for some reason.
Bernice's face remains neutral, "Of course. Well, I'll let you get back to work, Mr. Janus. And, again, it was nice meeting you." She extends her hand.
Janus takes her hand and looks deep into her eyes, "It is a pleasure, Ms. Matthews. I do hope we see each other again." His gaze feels almost menacing.
Bernice returns the look and replies, "Of course. I look forward to meeting this Mr. Grayson."
"I'm sure he shares your enthusiasm, Ms. Matthews." He lets go of her hand, nods, and walks away.
Tim comes out of the restroom and adjusts his belt. He holds back a burp and walks over to Bernice.
He asks, "Everything alright?
"It's quite alright, Tim."
Tim nervously tugs on his earlobe, "So, how much was it all?"
Bernice playfully says, "Take a guess, darling."
"Uh...5 grand?"
Bernice snickers and shakes her head.
"$7500 or somewhere around that range?"
"No."
"N--No way. F--Five digits??"
Bernice calmly says, "$19,500. Plus taxes...and other charges. So, $23,000 in total."
Tim almost chokes on his own spit, "Wh--Wh--I didn't know it was gonna be THAT MUCH! Jesus Christ, Bernice!"
Bernice shrugs and says, "It's nothing, Tim. At one law firm I used to work at, our regular dinner bills would be 6 digits. Or more."
Tim nods, "Wow. I've got to say, that's really something. I mean, I can't even fathom--"
A waiter returns with the cheque. Bernice takes her credit card out and puts it back in her purse.
"A--Anyway, what now, Bernice? Where are you headed? Do you have some business to take care of?" Tim asks.
Bernice shakes her head, "I know you're keen on picking up from where we...left off, Tim. But, I have other things I want to do right now."
Tim looks around and asks, "Something else? What else is there?"
Bernice nods, "I've made a few...personal appointments with some people."
"OK..."
Bernice softly chuckles, "I might even go and pay Maya a quick visit. A supporter of mine sent me her address. How...cute. How thoughtful of them. Heh."
Tim asks, "Are you s--sure about that, Bernice?"
"I'm not going to hurt her, Tim. I simply wish to talk to her."
Tim scoffs, "Maybe ask that redhead why she ran her mouth like that. Where does she live, anyway?
"Some apartment not too far off."
Tim rubs his chin, "Oh? Hmm."
Of course, neither of them know that Maya moved out of there a few nights back.
Bernice elegantly makes her way to the exit, Tim in tow. They nod and wave at the waiters and waitresses. The people inside are still looking their way, and some even give Bernice a thumbs-up.
One of the customers raises her glass high up in the air and nods at Bernice, "Keep fightin' the good fight, Ms. Matthews!" she yells out.
Bernice simply waves and smiles.
Bernice emanates an aura of elegant self-assurance where ever she finds herself. Even though the campaign is over, her life isn't. That's the image she wants to sell. She's always selling.
Always.
It's got her this far, why stop now?
She and Tim part ways. Bernice makes her way to a vacant apartment and Tim heads to his own home. He doesn't have much planned for the rest of the day. He just wants to spend some time...alone.
He hasn't quite gotten over the murder of his fiancé.
He gets home and slumps down on his leather couch. He grabs a framed photo of Kendra and him and sighs. He runs his thumb over her image and mutters, "We'll find 'em. And when we do..." his voice trails off.
Tears fall from his eyes. He doesn't wipe them away. He just stares at Kendra's smiling face. It was one of their many dates. She looked radiant that morning. And so beautiful.
A schoolteacher loved by her students. Strict when it mattered, but nice enough to be friends with. He met her during a school board meeting. That's how the 2 fell in love. That's how they ended up together.
She was an amazing woman. Truly.
Tim sobs uncontrollably as he stares at her face. Her bright smile, her beautiful blue eyes, her soft cheeks. Her everything. He kisses her image and cries out.
It's unlikely he'll ever find out the truth about what happened to poor Kendra. And even if he did, there's little to nothing that a simple mortal like him can do against an Elder vampire.
It's just not possible. It's not.
Later that evening...
Arman awakens from his day-sleep. He lies on his bed and stretches out his arms. He yawns and scratches his chest.
He then reaches over and checks his phone. Nothing out of the ordinary. He grunts and throws his phone aside. He gets up and goes for a quick shower.
After about 10 or so minutes, Arman picks his outfit for tonight. He decides on a simple, sky blue, slim fit, 2-piece suit along with a beige shirt. Very...Mediterranean.
He looks at his reflection and nods as he tugs on the lapels of his jacket, "Not too bad, if I do say so myself." He flashes himself a smug grin and leaves his bedroom.
Rolf greets his master, "Did master sleep well?"
"Ah, yes, thank you, Rolf."
Rolf nods and awaits further instructions for the night.
Arman casually walks over to his study. There's a small stack of papers he needs to finish looking over. Nothing urgent, but better to take care of it before anything else.
He sits down at his desk and calls Rolf in.
The Ventrue clicks a pen and begins reading over the documents. He nods and signs off on a few requests. He also adds some comments and notes, all of which are neatly written down.
He's a very organized man.
Arman looks up at Rolf and says, "I'm sure you have some idea of what we're going to be doing tonight?"
"Ja."
"Are you prepared?"
"Always, master."
Arman narrows his eyes, "And you have no...objections?" Of course, Arman doesn't care much for his Ghoul's opinion, he's just gauging Rolf's loyalty.
Rolf shrugs and replies, "If it's what master wishes. It is my duty." There's an emptiness in his voice.
Arman smiles to himself and seems satisfied with the response.
Rolf asks, "Would master like to feed now or after...Cross dead?"
Arman chuckles, "After, of course. Heh."
Rolf nods, "Ja. I go get ready now."
"Wear something...casual, Rolf. I'll need you to dispose of the bodies and the car after we're done. Something inconspicuous, please. I don't want you drawing even the slightest iota of attention."
"Ja. Rolf always discreet." The Ghoul walks away and gets ready.
Arman spends the next few minutes or so looking over his paperwork. He clicks his tongue and scratches his chin every now and then. He takes out his phone and texts Lenny.
"Is he coming or did he change his mind??"
Lenny takes some time to respond: "Of course he's coming. I told him you're a potential investor looking to diversify your portfolio. He's coming with his bodyguard."
Arman's fingers glide over the screen: "Fair enough. Just have the 6 million ready once it's done."
Leonard responds: "Gonna move some funds around tonight, don't worry. Also, we should probably wait a few nights before swooping in and buying Nimbus. Let things die down a bit."
Arman replies: "Good point. Let them...simmer a bit."
Leonard writes back: "Haha, of course."
Arman hears his doorbell ringing, multiple times. It also sounds like someone's banging on it, repeatedly.
Arman groans and quickly texts Leonard: "He's here."
Leonard replies: "Good luck..."
Rolf is at the door but waits for his master to arrive before opening it.
The banging and the constant bell ringing continue.
Arman arrives at the entrance. He quickly adjusts his hair and collar. He then nods at Rolf, who opens the door.
Standing there is none other than Camden Cross, CEO and founder of a startup named Ensure. It's to do with dietary supplements or something.
He's 24 years old. He's got an oblong face, clean shaven. His dark, shaggy hair reveals a bit of his ears.
Camden is wearing an oversized t-shirt with a few Japanese letters scrawled along the front, and a pair of black cargo shorts.
The young CEO has an obnoxious look plastered on his face, "Yo, yo, yo! Sweet mansion, my dude!"
Arman stifles a sign and welcomes Camden and his intimidating bodyguard inside.
Radko looks to be in his 40s. The bags under his eyes and the wrinkles on his face testify of a boss that's just too much to put up with and handle.
His eyes are sharp and he has a slight stubble. His head is bald and covered in a tattoo of a spider web.
Camden immediately opens his mouth and points at Radko's head, "He lost a dare, so I made him loose his hair and get a sweet tat! Hahaha, oh, man!" He laughs like a hyena and slaps his bodyguard on the arm.
Radko simply lowers his head and says nothing.
Arman leads them to his large living room.
Camden looks around the place, his jaw hanging open. He nods and goes, "Oooooh, nice! Nice, very nice!"
He runs over to the the paintings that adorn the wall and inspects them, "Holy shit, bro, this shit is ancient! I can feel the vibrations of fuckin' medieval times from it, dude!"
Arman sighs and frowns a bit, "Yes, well, if you're quite finished admiring them, please, have a seat."
Camden laughs, "So, you a friend of the Big L?"
"Excuse me?"
"Leonard, dummy!"
Arman chuckles, "Ah, I call him Lenny. Yes, we're good friends. That's why he asked me to speak with you."
Camden nods his head and rubs his chin, "Yeah, yeah, he did mention a potential investor. Said you're looking to...expand or whatever. Hey, Ensure's always looking out for new opportunities and shit."
Arman politely smiles and extends his hand, "My name is Arman."
"Camden. Camden Cross."
Camden looks at Rolf and points, "Who's that meat sandwich over there?"
Arman quickly interjects, "Oh, that's Rolf. My bodyguard."
"Sweeeeet. I got my own Rolf, too. Hey, Radko! Say hi or something."
Radko curtly nods and simply says, "Hello."
Arman smiles, "Would either of you like something to drink? I've got some wine."
"Hell yeah! Hey, Arman, you mind if I livestream this?"
Arman shakes his head, "Actually, I do mind, Camden. I am a man who values his privacy, as I'm sure you can appreciate."
Camden grins and pulls out his phone, "Gotcha. But, I'm still gonna take a few pics of your digs, dude."
Arman clears his throat. Camden rolls his eyes and puts his phone away.
Arman tells Rolf to go fetch some wine for the soon-to-be-deceased guests. Rolf bows his head and walks to the kitchen.
Radko leans forward and whispers something into Camden's ear.
Camden shrugs, "Chill, dude. Chill!"
Arman perches an eyebrow, "Is something the matter?"
"Nah, he's just reminding me about the Nimbus buyout. I put that on hold for now. You're a big shot investor and all, I can't fuckin' blow this, y'know?"
Arman simply smiles and nods his head.
Camden continues, "Besides, if the board is right about it, we'll have plenty of dough to buy some more companies, heh."
"Why are you so interested in buying Nimbus magazine, Mr. Cross?"
Camden shrugs and throws his hands up, "Just for laughs. I asked my Twitter followers if they'd wanna see Nimbus get bought on livestream. They lost their shit!" He laughs again.
Arman's smile drops, "Ah, yes, I saw that video of yours. You're quite...online, aren't you?"
"It's the future, man! You gotta be connected if you wanna get ahead. It's a fuckin' dog eat dog world out there."
"Hmm, there is no disagreeing with you there, Mr. Cross. I see that you are a very ambitious man, hmm?"
Camden slaps his thighs and howls, "Hell yeah! That's how I got Ensure where it is today! With hard work and determination, baby!"
Arman nods and politely claps, "Bravo."
Rolf comes back and places a silver tray with 2 wine glasses on the large coffee table.
Camden grabs a glass and swirls it around, "Cooool. So, how old is she?"
"The wine or the glass, Mr. Cross?"
Camden cackles, "Both!"
Arman grimaces a bit, "Well, about a decade old, give or take a year or 2."
"Sweet!" Camden gulps the wine down in one swift motion.
Arman looks over at Radko, "What about him?"
Radko shakes his head.
Camden adds, "Nah, he's like...Orthodox or something. Y'know how hard I had to try to get him to lase his hair off?"
Arman sighs, "I can imagine. Would you like more wine, Mr. Cross?"
"Sure! Hey, can I have a couple of brewskis, too? You got any Heinekens or Bud Light?"
"I'm afraid not, Camden. I prefer things of a...higher caliber."
"Whatever, dude, whatever. Suit yourself."
Rolf brings over a bottle of red wine and refills the empty glass.
Camden drinks the glass in one gulp. Again.
Arman suggests, "You're supposed to...savor it, Camden. Sip it, enjoy it. Appreciate it." There's a condescending tone to Arman's voice.
Camden makes a funny face, "I'll keep that in mind, dude. But I'm just not a slow guy. I'm like a fuckin' shark on Speed, man. I gotta keep moving, keep going."
Arman smiles and nods.
Arman clasps his hands together, "So, shall we discuss...business? I'm sure you didn't come all this way to drink my wine and talk about life, hmm?"
Camden nods his head, "Damn! Straight down to biz, huh? Yeah, let's chat!"
Of course, there's nothing to...talk about. Arman is just biding his time. Stalling, waiting for a perfect moment to strike.
The Ventrue looks at his Ghoul and subtly nods.
Showtime.
Rolf stands within striking distance of Radko, who is just still as a statue and a bit tired from his boss's antics.
Camden raises an eyebrow and asks, "Something up? Yo, I was thinkin', maybe you'd like to be on the board? We could use guys like you. Y'know, suave and shit!"
Camden continues, completely oblivious to what's about to happen, "Y'know, you got that whole...vibe."
Arman glances at his Ghoul and subtly shakes his head, "Vibe?"
"Yeah, y'know, the 'mysterious guy who's only interested in money and business' vibe. We can market you like that!"
"Hmph. Well, I am always open to new opportunities."
Camden puts his feet up on Arman's coffee table, "So, how much you willing to throw at me?"
Arman notices Camden's feet on his table but opts to not say anything about it, "Well, how much are you asking for, Mr. Cross?"
Camden looks up at the ceiling, "Oh, uh...like 75 million."
Arman blinks, "Excuse me?"
"Yeah, that's like...a minimum investment, y'know? But, we're cool with any amount, man, we'll take whatever you've got." He laughs and scratches his neck.
Arman asks, "Don't you think you might be valuing your startup a little too highly?"
Camden shrugs, "It's about the future, dude. You gotta think about what Ensure is gonna be like, in the year 2020. And, hey, Nimbus might be a part of that future, too."
He shuffles in his seat and continues, "So, if it goes well, we'll have a good fuckin' reason for investing in the future, right?"
Arman takes a sip of his own, "Hmm, it is...certainly a bold idea. However, 2020 is a long way off, Camden. Tell me Ensure's plans for the next year, at least."
Camden nods, "Yeah, yeah, sure. So, we're gonna do a whole, like, a health drink and vitamin combo for the general public, y'know. Maybe get into the powdered supplements market, too. Heh."
"Is there a big demand for whatever it is your startup...sells?"
"Hell yeah, dude! I'm in the middle of Silicon Valley, man! You got a lotta tech people there, y'know? Like, A LOT. Fuckin' A, there's a demand." He pauses. His face becomes a bit more serious.
He narrows his eyes and asks, "Y'know, you look kinda pale around the neck, man. Maybe you need some Ensure in your life. And your eyes look all hollow, dude, it's kinda freaky."
Camden chuckles, "Maybe you need a vitamin shot or something. Like, not right now, but y'know. In the future."
Arman claps back, "You're not exactly in a position to be giving out medical advice, are you, Mr. Cross?"
"Naaaah. I'm more of an...alternative medicine kinda guy, dude."
"Hmph. No surprise there. Is everyone in your Silicon Valley milieu as...eccentric as you are?"
"I guess so. What's a mil-i-eu?"
Arman sighs and rubs his temples, "You did go to school, didn't you, Mr. Cross?"
Camden snorts, "Yeah, but I dropped out of like half the classes so I could build apps and shit."
"Oh, and how did that turn out?" Arman looks Camden directly in the eyes.
Camden points to himself, "How do you think, dude? I'm gonna be in the 'Forbes 30 Under 30' list this year! Fuck yeah! Ensure is gonna be the big man on campus, wooo!" He slams his fist on the couch.
Camden adds, "I got a whole fuckin' fleet of fancy ass cars. Teslas, mostly. I love Tesla's. They're like fuckin' sci-fi cars."
Camden continues his...flexing, "I got a super hot girlfriend with a huge ass." He whistles. "And a jet. And a bunch of other shit. You get it, right?" He grins and shows off his teeth.
Arman nods, "You've made quite the name for yourself...in such a short span of time. That, I suppose, is something to be proud of. But, I digress. Let's get back to business."
"Oooooh. Like, what kinda biz?" Camden rubs his hands together. There's a glint in his eyes. He knows he's in for a good deal.
Or so he thinks.
"Nimbus, Mr. Cross. What exactly are your plans with it?"
"I'm gonna cut the fat, digitize that shit, and fill it with ads. We could sell out content to some fuckin' insurance company or cement provider or whatever, and they'd probably pay us shit ton of dough, dude!"
"That...is your grand plan?"
Camden scratches his face, "Uh, yeah, mostly. I'll just figure it out after I buy the thing. But, my followers on Twitter said a 40% staff reduction was the best move, so, y'know, I'm gonna do that. That's the Camden Cross way."
Arman chuckles, "Ah, yes, Cross Nation. Your online followers...they're quite important to you, aren't they?"
"Hell yeah. They've got power, man! They're gonna make me rich beyond belief! I livestream on Twitch almost every day. I just walk around with my camera and do whatever."
"I must admit, I am quite...out of the loop when it comes to these sorts of things."
"My brand is called Cross Nation, so I do all kinds of cuh-ray-zee things in my streams--"
"Like having a spider web tattooed on your bodyguard's head."
Camden laughs, "Yeah, exactly!"
"You know, Mr. Cross, it is indeed true that I am not as tech savvy as you are."
Arman steeples his fingers and leans forward, "I prefer to do things the old-fashioned way. I prefer a...more personal touch in all my dealings, if you will."
Camden does a fake yawn, "You sound like a dinosaur, dude."
Arman lets out a slight sigh, "I just think that a startup like yours would be better served by a...more competent person. Or persons."
Arman stands up and approaches Camden.
Camden laughs, "Hey, I'm pretty damn smart! I built that fucking start--"
Arman calmly says, "I'm afraid we're done here, Mr. Cross."
"You're joking, right? Dude, you gotta be fucking kidding me! You know how long--" Camden springs up and pulls out his phone.
Arman nods over to Rolf.
The Ghoul grabs Radko from behind his neck and viciously smashes his head into a small table nearby.
Rolf proceeds to snap Radko's neck, and the bodyguard goes limp.
The Ghoul lets go of Radko and throws the body aside.
Camden's eyes widen. He taps on his phone and cries out, "You--You motherfucker! I'll sue you, yo--you know who my father is?! You know who my fuckin' cousins are?!"
Camden whimpers as Arman steps closer and places his hands on Camden's shoulders.
"I do not care who...any of them are, Camden."
Camden blinks and looks at his bodyguard's limp body, "Wh--why'd he kill Radko??" His lips shake and his eyes are frozen open.
Camden tries to break free, but his efforts are in vain. He spits in Arman's face, "Luciano Donovan! My cousins will find you and they--they'll fuck you up!"
Arman wipes the spit off and laughs, "I might've heard that name before. But it doesn't matter."
Camden tries to wiggle free but Arman's preternatural grip is firm and unyielding, "Let fucking go of me!"
Arman replies, "I'm afraid this is the end of...Cross Nation."
Camden gasps as Arman reveals his fangs, "What the fu--"
Arman pushes Camden's neck to side and pulls him closer. He bites down and sinks his fangs in.
The Ventrue begins sucking Camden's blood out, no, he's guzzling it.
Camden slowly wheezes as he feels his life slipping away, "Please...stop...please, no, please..." His voice is hoarse and he's struggling to speak.
Arman has his mouth pressed up against Camden's neck. Rolf just stands and watches.
Arman stops for a brief moment and says, "So, that's what it tastes like, hmm? Interesting."
Camden is pale and shivering, on the brink of death. Arman sinks his fangs back in and continues drinking.
Blood drips out from Arman's chin and onto the floor. Camden goes completely limp and his body slumps down.
Arman lets the body hit the floor with a thud. He kneels down next to Camden and strokes his hair.
"Hm. Such a waste."
The Blue Blood turns around and sees Radko's dead body, head bloodied and neck snapped like a twig.
"Rolf."
The Ghoul replies, "Ja, master?"
"Did you have to smash that man's head on that table? It was quite an expensive piece, all the way from Hong Kong. What were you thinking?"
Rolf lowers his head, "Sorry, mein master."
Arman sighs, "Yes, well, prepare to dispose of the bodies and the vehicle they came in. I think the car keys might be with the bodyguard."
Rolf nods and goes to search the body.
Arman stands up and wipes his mouth, "I suppose that's it for the night. Go ahead and--"
Arman immediately feels a sharp pain in the pit of his undead stomach. He almost keels over and spasms. He falls on his knees and clenches his stomach. He tries to crawl to the nearest table for support.
"Master? MEIN MEISTER (DE: MY MASTER)!" Rolf desperately calls out as he rushes to his Domitor's aid.
Arman grits his teeth as he grips Rolf's shoulder for support. Arman makes a few guttural sounds and shakes his head from side to side.
"Aaaaarghhh!"
Rolf bends down and asks, "Master? Master, are you--"
Arman's fingers dig deep into Rolf's shoulder.
Just then, a river of scarlet vomit shoots out of Arman's mouth and splatters all over his precious floor and furniture.
Rolf yelps as he's hit with a bit of blood splatter.
Arman gurgles as he coughs uncontrollably. More scarlet liquid vomit mixed with what looks like ash come pouring out from his mouth and nose. He starts violently convulsing.
Rolf immediately runs to the kitchen and retrieves a bag of blood. He rushes back and nearly slips on his master's vomit.
Rolf puts the bag to Arman's lips, and says, "Master, DRINK!"
Arman's hands are shivering. He opens his shaking mouth, and lets the blood slip inside. He clamps his mouth down and greedily sucks at it.
Rolf rubs Arman's back, "Please, master, drink!"
In a few seconds, the bag is empty. Arman's grip on his Ghoul's shoulder loosens and he seems to be coming around.
Arman groans and rubs his chest, "Oh, god. I'm not doing that again."
Rolf helps Arman up and leads him to a seat. Arman sits down and grumbles as Rolf wipes the blood and vomit off him. His suit is a wreck.
Rolf asks, "What...happened, master?"
Arman wipes his face with a cloth, "It's probably too hard for someone like you to understand, but it is the Bane of my Clan- Rarefied Tastes."
Arman sniffs, "Why do you think I ask you to...procure all those young women for me? Hmm? It seems that those like them are the only ones I will be able to feed from for all eternity."
"I see."
"But you should know by now that I do not like to show weakness. Still, my curiosity got the better of me and I wanted to know what that wine tasted like." He gives Rolf a cold stare.
Rolf nods, "It happens, master. Sometimes I eat many bars of chocolate. More than I should."
Arman weakly chuckles, "Ah, Rolf. You are truly something."
Arman leans back in his seat and grunts a bit, "Anyway, you better get to disposing of these bodies. Also, clean up the mess." Arman huffs and closes his eyes.
Rolf nods and leaves him alone. He retrieves some bleach from the kitchen. He also grabs a mop and a bucket. He gets to work on cleaning up the blood and scarlet vomit. He doesn't ask his master any more questions.
Arman just lays back and hums to himself.
Rolf asks, "Would master like proper meal?"
Arman shakes his head, "No, no. I'm quite fine."
Rolf says, "Of course." He goes back to his cleaning.
After a few minutes, Rolf's done. He goes to search Radko's corpse for the car keys. He finds it and holds it up.
Arman orders his Ghoul, "Put the bodies in the trunk, drive as far away from here as possible, and...well, I'll leave the specifics to you, Rolf."
Rolf responds with a simple "Ja," and gets to work.
A few minutes pass and Arman is back in his study, at his desk, with a tablet in his hand. He's in the process of writing a couple of emails. He clicks send and leans all the way back in his chair. He stares at the ceiling and sighs.
His eyes meet with Rolf, who is standing by the entrance of his study, with a stern look on his face.
Arman raises a brow, "Yes, Rolf?"
"I leave and go dispose of bodies and car. Will master be needing anything before I go?"
"I think I'll be fine, thank you. Just make sure that NO ONE sees you, Rolf. I needn't remind you of that."
"Of course, master." Rolf nods and exits the room.
Rolf, so far, has been faithful to a fault. That is precisely why Arman keeps him around. And, even if he is not perfect, he will do anything he's told.
Anything...
After a few hours, Rolf returns. He took the bus and walked the rest of the way back to Arman's Haven.
Arman asks, "Done? Was there any trouble?"
"No, master."
"Good. As far as the world is concerned, Camden Cross is simply...missing."
"Ja. Good story, no?"
"Perhaps. The media and the police will chase dead ends and empty leads for years to come. I'll leave it be as long as it doesn't...intrude upon my business."
"Will it be a concern for master's business?"
Arman replies, "As long as you disposed of the bodies and the vehicle without drawing any suspicion, there shouldn't be any problems. Hm. Not for now, at least."
Rolf asks, "For now?"
"These things, my dear Rolf, have a habit of rearing their ugly heads when you least expect it, hmm?"
Arman picks up a few papers off his desk, "You are positive that absolutely no one saw you?"
Rolf nods, "Ja. I took long route and avoided traffic, too."
"Hmm, excellent. Did you notice anyone...or anything out of the ordinary?" Arman is desperate to make sure that all loose ends have been tied up.
"Ja. No problems there, either."
Arman shakes his head, "That's good. You know, Rolf, you are truly one in a billion. I could not have asked for a better...Ghoul."
Rolf bows his head, "I could not have asked for better master."
Arman smiles and says, "Bring the car around. I have that meeting at that rundown auditorium. I really wish we could do this at a better place, but alas, it serves its function and nothing more."
"Ja. Should I clean the car first?"
"No need. Just drive straight there."
"Ja, master." Rolf heads out to bring the car around.
Arman looks around and thinks to himself, "All in good time. Little by little, the pawns are being moved into place. Piece by piece," he chuckles to himself and rubs his chin.
The car arrives and Arman makes his way out. He sits in the front and tells Rolf to drive slow.
And the rest of the night passes by rather uneventfully.
Chapter 14: A Week With Ms. Weekes
The rest of the days (and nights) go on with nothing out of the ordinary happening. Or, at least, that's how it looks.
It is now officially 1 week (7 nights, to be precise) since the Embrace of Maya Weekes into Clan Tremere. It has been...quite the ride for her.
Plenty of ups and an equal number of downs, too.
For most people, a week is just a week. But, for Maya, it's been an interesting rollercoaster of love, doubt, uncertainty, and...a smorgasbord of other emotions and feelings.
On the one hand, she feels liberated. Free, even. She's also a little scared, nervous, and unsure.
Is this...good? Is this normal?
Has it been good or normal so far?
Lucile and Maya continue to speak via their 90 second thing, but it gets increasingly harder as Lucile moves westward. Lucile says she has no idea on when she might be getting back.
The other Kindred go about their Unlife as well.
Arman and Ginny announce that they are now officially dating.
For whatever reason, Prince Lucas gives Arman a bit of a cold shoulder. Looks like whatever Simon said to him about the Ventrue is worming its way through his mind.
Maya's Sire, Eleanor, seems to be getting even more forgetful. Attempts to talk to her about it are met with silence (or scorn).
Nolene and Maya become good friends. The 2 plan on going bowling, but Nolene's all wrapped up in her court case and she's pretty vague about what it's all about.
Chaska becomes the de-facto right-hand man to Prince Lucas, and is generally around whenever he is. They get along rather well and they've known each other for years, so that's good.
Maya awakens from her day-sleep. The sun has long set. She rubs her eyes and gets out of bed. She brushes her teeth and heads for a quick shower.
She stands under the shower as the water runs down her cold, naked body. She just stands there for a few minutes.
She thinks about all the decisions she's made, both the big and the little ones. Both in life and Unlife.
And then her mind drifts off to...Lucile. Of course.
Maya just wants her girlfriend back. That's all. She wants to hold her, kiss her, and be with her.
She thinks back to what happened to her the last time she was with Lucile. That memory is still fresh in her mind. The (unfinished) Blood Bond between them still lingers.
Maya can feel her dead heart act up. Her fingers rub against her throat. She thinks about all that could ever be between her and Lucile.
All that will perhaps be.
Her mind races, and she has very little idea of what comes next.
After about 15 minutes or so, Maya steps out of the shower and dries herself off.
She checks her phone and notices a message from Edgar, her former boss. It reads: "Maya. Got a great opportunity for you. You're not gonna want to miss this, trust me. Meet me @ Nimbus tomorrow evening. Just trust me on this, OK?"
Maya sighs and frowns as she replies: "Nimbus?? Is this some kind of joke, Edgar?"
Maya wasn't expecting it, but he immediately replies: "I know that Nimbus is probably the last place you wanna set foot in after what happened. I get it, believe me, I do, but this is important. I promise."
Maya sighs and replies: "Fine. I'll be there. This better NOT be some kind of sick joke, Edgar"
"It's not."
Maya taps on the screen: "Will...she be there, too?"
Edgar responds: "No. This offer is just for you, Maya."
"Are you sure?"
"I don't know if you heard, but Annette's got mandatory community service. A 100+ hours, IIRC. Don't be late, OK?"
Maya's reply: "Fine. I'm only agreeing to this cuz my current job search is looking pretty damn grim."
"I understand, Maya. Have a great evening."
"You too, Edgar. Say hi to the kids for me."
Edgar replies with a thumbs-up and heart emoji.
Maya clicks send and tosses the phone on her bed. She finishes drying herself off and puts some clothes on.
Maya slouches her shoulders and scratches her arm. She wonders what Edgar could possibly want, and why does he want to meet her at...Nimbus.
She had no idea what awaited her.
The Tremere Fledgling thinks to herself, "It better not be the past repeating itself..."
She quickly snaps out of her grim thoughts and shakes her head.
She grabs her laptop and turns it on. Like last time, she clicks on the link and patiently waits. She's given a random username and avatar.
"://INIT..."
Maya looks at the time. Last she heard, Lucile's supposed to be somewhere in Indiana by now. Or was it North Dakota?
Maya rubs her chin as she tries to remember. She waits and waits and waits. Eventually, the session times out and the screen goes black.
Maya angrily shuts the laptop and grunts. She just hopes Lucile comes home safe and sound.
Whenever that is.
A few tears of blood flow down Maya's cheek. She sighs and goes upstairs to her living room.
She's about to head for the kitchen when she hears a knock on the door.
She isn't expecting any visitors. Maya slowly walks over to the door and readies her claws.
She then asks, "Who's there?"
A distinctly Irish accent replies, "A friend."
Maya's claws go back in, "Oh. What does this 'friend' want?"
"Aye, I'm a friend of Lucile's!"
Maya's eyes light up when she hears Lucile's name. She opens the door, revealing a person wearing a studded leather jacket and torn jeans. They have a stocky build and their hair is black, styled in a messy concave cut.
Maya asks, "Hi. You are...?"
The stranger extends their gloved hand and says, "O'Malley. Jean O'Malley. Clan Ravnos. Pleasure to meet you, Maya."
Maya shakes their hand and asks them to come in, "You said you were a friend of Lucile? How is she? Is she OK??"
"Aye, she's doing fine, love." Jean whistles and looks around the place, "Lovely little Haven you got. It's just as grand as she said it was."
Maya's eyes widen, "You talked to Lucile? Where is she? Where is she right now??" Maya desperately wants to know.
Jean winks at Maya, "Ah, you miss her, eh? Yeah, she misses you a lot, love."
Maya asks, "How do you 2 know each other?"
Jean replies, "I'm a courier for the Midwest. Well, most of it anyway. I like Lucile's ride; that red Chevy's a thing of beauty, y'know?"
"Yeah, it sure is. Here, c'mon in, make yourself comfortable."
"Aye." Jean walks in, removes their gloves, and plops down on the couch nearby.
They ask, "You got anything to drink, love?"
"I'm sorry, no. I didn't even...drink anything, too."
"No bother, I'll find a warm body later."
Maya nervously says, "I'm really sorry, Jean."
Jean waves their hand is dismissal, "No worry about it, love."
Maya sits down and asks, "So, tell me, Jean. How is Lucile doing? Is she alright? What's the situation out there?"
Jean chuckles, "Lucile said you were a worrier, haha. As for the situation, it varies."
"So, what are doing all the way up here, Jean?"
"Here to hand over some wee flash drive to yer oul fella."
Maya scratches her head in confusion, "'Yer oul fella'?"
Irish slang is something Maya's not familiar with.
"Aye. Prince Lucas. I'm also here to pick up a few packages and make some extra cash."
"Oh, so how long have you been doing the courier...thing for?"
"A wee while. Speaking of cash," Jean reaches into their pocket and pulls out a wad of crispy cash, "Lucile wanted me to give you this."
Maya gingerly takes the money and asks, "Uh, thanks, but why would she want me to have this?"
Maya counts the cash- $1,200. All fresh, crispy $100 bills that look like they came straight off a pile.
Jean smiles, "She made $2,400 doing some deliveries. Wanted you to have half, she said you deserved it."
"Wow, really?? But why?? Also, wow, Kindred couriers make THAT much?" Maya looks at the cash in her hands. She's not complaining, though. It's a good chunk of change.
"Cause she loves you. And yeah, we couriers do make 4 digits. Minimum. But that's just me, it's not all about money, though," Jean's smile fades a bit.
"That's...really generous of her. If o--or when you see her, tell her I said thanks."
Jean nods their head, "Aye. Will do, love. Will do."
Maya puts the money away and asks Jean, "So, did Lucile say anything else?"
"Naw. She just wanted me to check on you. Make sure you were OK and safe. She...said that she might not be able to 'chat' every night due to time zone differences. She said you'd know what that means."
Maya clicks her tongue, "Ah. Damn. That...sucks." She looks away and sighs. She tries not to let it get to her.
Jean says, "Anyway, Lucile seems like a lovely lass. You 2 are quite a good match, eh?" they flash a cheeky smile.
Maya smiles back, "I think so, too. I'm just hoping that she'll come back soon, y'know?"
"Aye. We got to talking a bit. Lucile told me about herself and I told her a bit about me." Jean looks a bit concerned.
Maya narrows her eyes, "Is everything all right, Jean?"
Jean doesn't immediately respond as they stare blankly at the floor.
"Jean..."
Jean snaps out of their daze, "Ah, sorry, love. It's just, well, we were chatting and, y'know, I got to talking about meself. Not something I like doing very much."
Jean pauses and clears their throat, "Anyway--"
Maya asks, "Y'know, I actually wouldn't mind knowing a bit more about you, Jean. You seem like a...cool person."
Jean laughs, "Cool? I've been called many things, love. But cool is probably not one of them. Most people call me a dryshite." They chuckle a bit.
Maya looks confused, "Dry-shite? I feel like you're speaking a different language here, Jean. Haha."
"If the accent didn't give it away, I'm Irish, love." They snort and cross their arms.
"Oh, uh, right. Cool!"
Jean slightly unzips their jacket, "I'm not used to telling random people about my...history. Not in a long while, at least." They sigh.
"You don't have to if you don't want to, Jean."
Jean shrugs, "Ah, what the hell. I'll give you the abridged version. I'll tell you the same thing I told your girl."
Maya gently nods, "Whatever's comfortable with you, Jean."
Jean nods, "I've been a Ravnos for close to 15 years now. Last I heard, my Sire got fuckin' charred. Shame..." they shake their head.
"Was your Sire the one who got you into..." Maya gestures her hand around, "...the whole courier thing?"
"Naw. That was something else entirely, love. The short story is I was a getaway driver for a Malkavian bank robber. The job went tits up after he killed the security guard."
"Oof. Sounds rough. What happened to the robber?" Maya looks on with concern.
Jean laughs, "He got the Sheriff's sword. The Prince in that city was a real law-and-order type of bastard. I, on the other hand, was offered a wee choice. I'm sure you can guess what that choice was, Maya."
Maya slowly nods, "The sword or courier duty?"
Jean points at Maya, "Bingo!"
"Why'd they give you a choice, though?"
Jean shrugs, "Hell if I know, but if it means not being on the chopping block, I'll fuckin' take it. This whole vampire thing has been quite grand...so far."
Jean chuckles, "Besides, a Ravnos courier makes a lot of sense. We Daredevils are always on the move, never stopping. Our Clan Curse keeps us moving and moving. It's why we're still around, eh? You could say we're like a fuckin' bullet train."
Maya smiles, "Heh, yeah. Wow, that's quite the story, Jean."
Jean shrugs, "That's not even a quarter of it. If I'm in the mood, I'll tell you the rest--"
Just then, a knock is heard on Maya's door.
Maya springs up, "Huh, what? Who? Oh, hang on." She walks over to the door and slowly opens it.
Eleanor and Nolene stand on the other side.
Maya gasps, "Oh, uh...hey! C'mon in, I guess. Hi, Nolene! Hi, Eleanor. You 2 look...nice."
Eleanor walks in and notices Jean lounging on the couch, "Ah, I see you have...a guest."
Jean flashes the peace sign, "Aye. Name's Jean O'Malley! Lucile's told me all about you, Eleanor."
Eleanor raises her chin a bit, "And who might you be, hmm?"
"I'm a courier from the Midwest. Clan Ravnos."
Eleanor gives them a quizzical look, "Oh, yes, right. How is Lucile keeping?"
Jean nods and smiles, "She's doing fine. Told me to tell you to keep an eye on Maya over here."
Eleanor simply glances at Maya.
Jean chuckles and nods towards Nolene, "Hello there...um...?"
Nolene steps forward and extends her hand, "Nolene. Clan T--Tremere."
Jean shakes Nolene's hand, "Aye, another one, eh?"
Nolene politely smiles, "Uh...yeah."
She sits down next to Jean and looks around Maya's Haven.
Eleanor puts her large purse on the table and takes something out. It's a large piece of paper.
Maya asks, "What's that?"
The Elder Usurper replies, "It is a copy of the Tremere Code. It is the oath that you must swear. The Code is a very important thing and, as your Sire, it is my duty to make sure you adhere to it."
Eleanor hands the paper over to Maya.
Maya quickly scans it as she whispers, "So...I'm supposed to recite ALL this?"
Eleanor perches an eyebrow, "Will that be a problem, Childe?"
Maya gulps, "N--No, not at all. Nope."
Nolene chimes in, "Go easy on her, she's just a Fledgling."
Jean nods in agreement.
Eleanor sighs, "It has been 7 nights since your Embrace, Maya. It is therefore imperative that you take the oath."
Eleanor sits down in an armchair.
"Now, read it. All of it. Loudly. Do not falter and DO NOT skip any of it."
Eleanor gestures to Nolene and Jean, "These 2 will serve as witnesses."
Jean and Nolene nod.
Jean says, "Aye. Why not?"
Nolene smiles at Maya, "You got this, girl."
Eleanor asks the 2 others, "Do you have any questions before we begin? Any objections or reservations?"
Nolene says, "No. I'm good."
Jean replies, "Naw."
Maya clears her throat and looks down at the piece of paper that was given to her.
She sheepishly smiles as her hands shake a bit.
Eleanor gives her Childe a cold stare, "Is something the matter, Maya?"
"N--No, just a...I can't believe it's been a week since my...Embrace. This is all a bit...surreal, right?"
Eleanor nods, "Perhaps."
"I can't even imagine what I'd be doing right now, had I not been Embraced by you, Eleanor. God, I don't even wanna think about it."
Eleanor says, "Anytime you are ready, my Childe."
"OK. Sure," Maya smiles at her Sire.
Maya breathes in and breathes out.
Nolene and Jean give her a nod.
Maya straightens her back and begins, "I, Maya Weekes, hereby swear my everlasting loyalty to House and Clan Tremere and all its members. I am of their Blood, and they are of mine."
A good minute or so later, and Maya ends, "I hereby swear this oath on this hallowed night. Woe to they who try to tempt me to break this oath, and woe to me if I succumb to such temptation!"
Eleanor immediately rises up and approaches Maya. The Elder slits her own wrist and lets a few drops of blood fall onto the paper.
Maya gasps as she sees the paper smoke and slowly break down into tiny particles. It soon dissolves and is completely gone.
Maya asks, "What was that?"
Eleanor doesn't respond.
Maya asks again, "Eleanor?"
Eleanor's eyes change color and she speaks, "Let it be so."
A long, piercing howl erupts from everywhere and fills the air.
The sound is so loud that Nolene and Jean are momentarily stunned.
Maya grimaces a bit, but the howling eventually subsides.
Eleanor's eyes go back to normal and she sternly nods, "Well done, Childe. I now hereby grant you the rank of Acolyte. May your service be of benefit to the Pyramid."
Eleanor looks at Maya and warmly smiles, "You have come thus far, my Childe. There is still much ahead of you. There is still so much for you to learn. Stay vigilant and always keep the Beast under your control."
Maya nods, "Of course, Eleanor." There is a slight look of disappointment on her face.
Eleanor asks, "Is something the matter?"
Maya shakes her head, "I just wish Lucile was here for this. She would've been...proud, I think. You know, that I...made it this far. 2 weeks ago, I didn't even know who this amazing woman was. I--"
Maya chokes up a bit, "I just want her here."
Nolene puts a hand on her shoulder, "Hey, we're here for you, girl. You're not alone."
Jean adds, "Aye, Lucile will probably be back even before you know it. She's smart, strong, and capable, love."
Eleanor says, "She will return, my Childe. She will return."
Maya rubs her eyes, "Thanks, you 3. This means a lot to me. Really, i--it does."
Eleanor puts her hands on Maya's shoulders, "I must leave now. In the meantime, continue your learning and training. Diligently perform any task given to you by the Prince and make every effort to uphold the Masquerade. Understood?"
Maya replies, "Yes, ma'am. I mean, Eleanor." She awkwardly laughs a bit.
Eleanor looks at Nolene and Jean, "You both have witnessed Maya taking the oath. Ensure that she does not deviate from it." Her tone is final and leaves no room for questions.
Jean salutes, "Aye."
Nolene smiles and waves, "Will do, Eleanor."
Eleanor nods and heads for the front door, "I shall see you at the auditorium later, then?"
Maya nods.
Eleanor reminds Maya, "Make sure you hunt before attending the meeting. It is improper to attend such gatherings when the Hunger distracts you."
"Of course."
Eleanor leaves as Maya hears the engines of a SUV roar to life.
After a few minutes, Nolene breaks the silence, "Daaaaaamn, girl! You in the big leagues now!"
Maya asks, "Was your oath-taking the same?"
"Uh, yeah, yeah."
"Wow. That's pretty cool."
Nolene shrugs, "Eh. It was a long time ago. Heh."
Jean gets up and adjusts their jacket, "Well, as much as I'd love to sit around for a chinwag, I got places to be and sleepin' arrangements to make; y'know how it is for us Wanderers."