Folio Two: Doing Battle Against The Invisible Enemy
Fraught with peril are the days ahead. It has only been mere weeks since the first confirmed cases have been reported. Mere weeks since the emergence of this catastrophe.
When Dr. Florence had graduated from the Royal Imperial College Of Medicine, this is not how she expected the trajectory of her profession to go.
She now finds herself seated in the back of a repurposed troop transport, on the way to a crumbling hospital that is hours away from overflowing. Somewhere in the middle seat row, a small man adjusts his facemask and groans. There is a high chance of it slipping from his face.
Dr. Florence clicks her tongue and shakes her head while helping him with his straps. She forgot the little man's name as soon as he was introduced. As a way to pass the time, she looks at him.
Wrinkly brown eyes, pale complexion. Prematurely graying brown hair. He's nobody special by any means.
The troop transport goes over a terrible bump, causing its numerous occupants in its open back to jostle uncomfortably. The air around them is thick with the pungent and acrid scents of fear, mild body odor, and smoke from the burning bodies.
Large squads of Orange Guard have been setting alight the unfortunate and the departed, all throughout the streets and piers. Flamethrowers are mercilessly and readily used.
Dr. Florence mutters to herself, "The graves...are overflown. And that's not to say anything about our own hospital's mortuary either. Even we have ordered mass burnings of the infected corpses. Emperor have mercy."
Dr. Florence is in her early twenties. Her brown hair is braided and concealed under a stark white cap. Her ocean blue eyes peer out into the misty distance. Her bony fingers are gloved and interlaced together, resting on her lap.
There are a number of other medical personnel, nurses, cleaners and assorted others who have been deemed as essential workers by the Imperial authorities. A few of the newer hires sit together quietly, carefully scrutinizing and observing everyone else for signs of the illness.
Dr. Florence is given an appreciative nod by the small man. He sounds so muffled under his mask, "We are very fortunate to have you. Thank you again for volunteering to assist us, Dr. Florence."
She dryly responds, "It is not like I - nor anybody else here - had much of a choice in the matter. Empire needs us. Lives need saving. As soon as we get there, be sure to wash your hands before even attempting to touch a patient."
The little man chuckles, "Indeed! In case it slipped your mind, the name's Bathurst. Nurse at Saint Claire's for the past decade."
She reintroduces herself, "Dr. Florence. Recent graduate from the RICM. With full honors. First woman in my family to hold a degree. I must admit that this is not how I anticipated my career to go. Nor I think anyone else, for that matter."
Bathurst exhales sharply, "In all my years, I've never quite seen anything like this, doctor. And to think that it has only been weeks- weeks! - since the first case was confirmed."
The two spend a moment in silence. The others amongst them clasp their covered hands in prayer or check on their equipment and supplies.
The entire troop transport screeches to a sudden stop. The two Guards at the front hop out and grab a small beggar boy by the collar of his gray rags. They throw him onto the side of the road and kick his rucksack towards him.
The bulkier Guard hisses at the lad, "Fuck off, you dreg! We nearly ran over you! What possessed you to meander in the middle of the bloody road?!"
Dr. Florence cranes her neck to get a better view.
She notices some treatable wounds on the poor beggar boy's arm. And what very well may be the beginnings of a broken leg, likely from the Guards' assault. She pushes her way to the back of the vehicle and jumps out.
Her borrowed boots hit the hard and uneven ground with a thud. The others gasp and look at her. Some chastise her and tell her to get back in the troop transport and let the Orange Guards handle the situation.
The Guards do not notice her walking up to them, her footsteps punctuated with sheer purpose and determination. One of them is just about to hit the unfortunate boy with his rifle butt, when Dr. Florence gets in between them.
"This boy requires medical attention," she says, her eyes as wide as an owl's.
The other Guard growls at her and order, "What in Emperor's name do you think you're doing? Get back in!"
Dr. Florence stands her ground. She lightly shoves the guard aside, sets her medical bag down, gets on one knee, and begins to inspect the young beggar boy's leg. She mumbles under her breath, "Thankfully it is not that badly broken. But the arm, however...Emperor have mercy on his soul, why have you not sought medical care sooner?"
The lad shakily answers, "There was n--no time. I--I've been up and down the streets f--for days now, begging for food and coin. I heard of the catastrophe from the radio in a shack, so I decided to try and leave. Gah! It--it stings!"
He groans as Dr. Florence expertly wraps his wounded arm in some treated gauze. She dabs it a few times with some cotton drenched in orange liquid.
The boy gasps, "What is that?"
"Something to ease the pain," she professionally answers.
The Guard who cursed at the lad lightly taps Dr. Florence with the tip of his boot and prods, "Are you done treating this boy? He'll be dead before the end of the month, anyway? So, what's the point. Meanwhile, the people at--at Saint Claire's NEED US! My own nephew is--is there and--and--"
Dr. Florence sighs and nods, "Yes. I am sorry, just another moment. Please. Wait in the transport. You are needlessly scaring this poor and misfortunate child."
The two Guards impatiently but reluctantly stomp their way back to the troop transport.
Dr. Florence smiles, but nothing is immediately visible thanks to the mask covering her face. However, her crinkling eyes are visible enough. She takes out some salves and bandages and proceeds to tend to the young boy's broken leg.
The boy licks his lips, "You seem good at this, ma'am."
The good doctor shakes her head and sighs deeply, "I am but a humble graduate student. A bachelorette who has been plunged into her first major medical crisis. Your limbs should be fine now. Try not to put too much strain on them. One moment, please..."
She rummages through her bag and produces a simple mask. She gives it to the boy and says, "Here. Please. Put it on. Over the nose. It's...not much, I'll admit, but it's better than absolutely nothing. Death is in the air. Only take it off when you absolutely have to. Do you understand what I'm saying?"
The lad grabs the mask and puts it on. He nods his head up and down. The hopelessness in his glassy eyes is quite evident. His rags are tattered and his possessions less than meager.
Dr. Florence looks over her shoulder. She can feel the pressure of all those eyes boring into her. A few moments pass, then she stands and returns to the troop transport.
The young beggar lad stands aside and vacantly watches the behemoth of a vehicle depart. His mouth is agape and his heart is heavy. He grunts and limps away to the side of the road.
Dr. Florence turns her head to look at the lad, one last time.
Bathurst shakes his head and tuts disapprovingly, "We can't really afford to get sentimental or--or attached, doctor. Not in this line of work. I am sorry, but I hope that you are able to learn that, sooner rather than later. Didn't they teach you this at the RICM?"
Dr. Florence's chuckle is tense, "Ironically, I was sick during that day. Seasonal hay flu."
The troop transport chugs along until it comes across a hastily setup barricade. Rubber, wood, and stone. Some of the vehicle's occupants loudly comment and wonder how in the world they're supposed to bypass it.
The lead Guard gruffly calls out, "Stay put! Hold onto something!"
The other Guard asks, "Who erected such a shoddy blockade?! Did one of those bloody troublemaker groups assemble it?!"
"Don't know. Don't care. Orders are to get these smart 'uns to St. Claire's in one piece. And fast! I'm going to go over that damn thing! Hold on back there, the ride may be a bit rough, from here on out!"
The troop transport - repurposed and shoddy as it may be - somehow manages to pulverize the barricade. Debris and splinters fly everywhere. The winding road ahead climbs upwards and leads into an uncomfortably dense woodland area.
"Brigands will undoubtedly be roaming these parts. Shit..." The other member of the Orange Guard trails off and checks the ammunition in his rifle.
(It wouldn't be the first time that these people have been ambushed by equally desperate people looking to claim loot, supplies, and even weapons.)
The men sitting in the front have their rifles ready at all times, while the ones in the back continue to furtively examine their colleagues for signs of the terrible disease.
They also look around and see that the trees of this area are developing telltale signs of a blight. The leaves are pale and have some light spots on them. White clouds of dust gently escape from some of the potentially diseased trees.
Nurse Bathurst gesticulates to the trees and remarks, "We should cut them down. Which is a damned shame, because I remember coming here as a child and climbing them all the way to the top, like a monkey. Emperor's mercy..."
The troop transport approaches a higher elevation, where the entire city is visible below. Foul black smoke billows high from a place somewhere in the western quarter. There are a number of factories and residences down there.
The death bells, wailing voices, and plaintive moans have NOT quieted down. Rifle shots are occasionally heard, followed by the occasional shriek.
A quick breeze ruffles the clothes, masks, and faces of the troop transport's occupants.
Dr. Florence swallows the lump of fear in her throat and tells herself, "We're almost there. What's the caseload like today, I wonder?"
Saint Claire's is now a husk of its former self. Once viewed as one of the best hospitals in all of Empire (or this part of it, at least), its rotting walls are now covered in moss and ivy. Windows are either boarded up or grimy.
And upon arriving, the ghastly smell of rotting flesh hits the lungs, like a hammer. But the masks do help to mitigate most of it.
Not everyone was so lucky, because Dr. Florence can see a number of Orange Guards who keeled over after taking a sniff of the decaying cadavers. Even after death, it ravages the bodies of the victims in unspeakable ways.
Dr. Florence surveys the area and is dismayed, if not mildly terrified, by the extent of the infection. Just yesterday, the bodies in the hallways weren't yet rife with the pus. The bloody and gaping holes in the living were not yet as large.
Worse yet, there are even more bodies in the once-sterile hallways of this once-venerable institution. The Emperor Himself inaugurated Saint Claire's many, many, many years ago. Ever since then, it has fallen to neglect.
Neglect led to disrepair. Disrepair soon made way for shortcuts to patch the ever-increasing structural issues. And that soon gave way to the current miserable state of St. Claire's. The powers that be shrugged their shoulders, turned the other way, and pretended like all was well.
Fraught with ruin is this hospital, indeed. But it's all that the denizens of this city have got, even if it is a flimsy boundary between life and death.
Many more people have either been discharged or are even being FORCED to go home - there is simply no place. Triage has been implemented numerous times over.
Dr. Florence and the other essential personnel begin to make an orderly exit from the vehicle and quickly get to work. It is not long before they are joined by a few others with similar expertise and aims. Their faces are masked, but the bagginess of their eyes and the way in which they move speaks volumes of the fatigue that they're experiencing.
Disinfectant solution, pain relieving unguents, towels, bandages, needles, and other critically vital supplies are running low. Dangerously low.
A nurse tells Bathurst, "Supply deliver isn't for another few weeks! How are we supposed to hold out until then?!"
Bathurst huffs a long sigh and walks to the front of the hospital. He turns around and addresses Dr. Florence, "What do you think, doctor? Can we keep rationing the medicine until the next shipment of supplies comes in?"
Dr. Florence recalls one of her earlier lessons, "Watered down medicine isn't just ineffective. It's criminal neglect and a betrayal of our oaths as rational people of science. At best. At worst, it's outright poison! We could be charged with murder!"
Bathurst nods and picks up the pace, not saying much as way of response. He steps over a bunch of writhing and unconscious patients who have not yet been assisted, let alone assessed. One of them has an important-looking pin on their hat.
He ignores that and goes to the hand-washing station. The others aren't too far behind him. Dr. Fiona has to wait in the midst of hopeless, heartbreaking, and stifling screams.
She tells herself, "Each death is--is a crime."
The pandemonium unfolds around her in a slow and agonizing fashion. Wails, sobs, retching, and the whirring of wheel carts fill the hallways. Space to maneuver stretchers is rapidly becoming scarce.
The two nurses scurry inside one of the few clean operating rooms in the main wing and get ready to perform an emergency surgery on a particularly difficult case. A ghastly, haggard, and distressed intern is already present, gathering the correct implements and checking things - thrice - to ensure that they're sterile.
Nurse Bathurst gestures an empty hand-washing station. She rolls up her sleeves and gets to washing her hands, all the way up to her elbows.
While scrubbing with the special soap, she asks, "Do we not have hand sanitizers on site? Perhaps more modern dispensaries than...this!" To reinforce her point, she gestures to how rusted the station is.
Bathurst is quick to answer, "I'm afraid not. As things stand, we've been running on a pitiful budget, doctor. And I've learned that even the charity of strangers has its limits."
His eyes crinkle when he musters up a smile, "Now, once again unto the breach! To do battle with the invisible enemy, eh?"
Dr. Florence nods and echoes, "Hm. Yes. To do battle against the invisible enemy."
The deemed essential personnel are rotated in completely arbitrary shifts. Dr. Florence sees more faces than she cares to count. Mere flashes of humanity. All of whom are distressed and trying their best to do good with the shoddy tools and cramped quarters that they're working in.
The nurses gather around a few bodies wrapped in burial shrouds. A few more of their close colleagues tragically perished the night prior. Their heads are lowered pensively. Some begin to mutter a quiet prayer while the others let their eyes flit about and focus on anything except the fallen.
Dr. Florence makes her way to the office of the hospital's administrator. He is a man of average weight and height. He's decidedly middle-aged, with a full head of short and cropped auburn hair.
He does not wear a mask. His white coat is somewhat stained with the blood and other unspeakable fluids of the excessive patients.
When Dr. Florence inquires about the sudden spike in infections, he frowns and sighs. The plaque on his door reads: "DOCTOR HAROLD DAWES, ADMIN. PHD, MSC, RTRMS, MMGM".
Dr. Dawes shakes his head and recounts, "We believe that the infection is spreading. And rapidly. Cases have shot up since you were last here, which...wasn't even that long ago." His voice is deep but strained, likely from all the shouting he has been doing.
"Patients are dropping like flies..." Dr. Florence grimly notes.
Dr. Dawes folds his arms and shuffles his feet, "We're already stretched thin as it is. Go now. See what can be done to aid these unfortunate souls."
"Where's your mask?"
"T--took it off for a while. In all fairness, the IMOH guidelines have been...inconsistent. There has been more emphasis on hand washing as of late."
Dr. Florence fixes him with a sympathetic look, "Please, sir. Put it back on. Emperor forbid, but if something were to happen to you--"
Dr. Harold holds out his hand, palm facing outward, "The Emperor protects, my dear. The Emperor protects. Have you managed to listen to the most recent broadcast?"
Dr. Florence sighs and shakes her head, "I was too busy trying to not let the screams interrupt my limited sleep, sir? What was it about?"
Dr. Harold smiles a little, "The Emperor is alive and well. His voice is as vital and strong as ever. A few of the magistrates have decided to shut down most forms of public transport. A lockdown is also to be implemented at the soonest opportunity. Hence the blockades, I suppose."
"Too little, too late."
"Hm. Perhaps. But we must try to stymie the spread of this scourge, no matter the cost."
Dr. Florence firmly nods, turns on her heel, and hurriedly makes her way back into the mayhem and misery of an overcrowded maternity ward. The sounds of the wailing babies are drowned out by the sounds of frantic footsteps rushing to and fro.
The good doctor holds onto her stethoscope and carefully steps over a few people lying on the floor. Some of the unfortunates tug at her pants and beg her for help. For some reason, they are not receiving their proper treatment.
She ducks down and shines a small flashlight into their jaundiced eyes, wincing and then gasping when she sees the telltale yellow shade. She loudly commands, "See to it that they receive the proper medication! They don't appear to show signs of infection...yet."
Despite the pleas on their wrinkly faces, she can offer them no more help. She makes her way to an area where some additional cots have been set up. A shoddy and quickly put together ICU.
The patients are rambling incoherently, complaining about the sound of the ringing bells, and groaning horribly. The buckets besides their cots are filled with bile and milky-white substances. Some of the patients have a startlingly pallid complexion.
Dr. Florence makes her way to an older lady lying on the farthest corner. Upon closer inspection, she can see the woman's throat is horrendously swollen. Another telltale sign, if the doctor ever saw one.
She applies a cold compress to the woman's forehead and is startled when the lady grabs her arm with a vice-like grip. The old lady's green eyes are wild and wide.
The doctor softly but firmly commands, "Ma'am. Please, don't touch me. Transmission can happen, even through touch. And I do not possess many garments in my wardrobe to change into."
The old woman's parched, chapped lips move. She asks, "W--water, please. G--give...me--me...water. Give it to me, girl!"
Dr. Florence sighs and fills a small cup with some purified water. She'd normally boil it, too, but she is rather pressed for time at the moment. She regrets being so careless as soon as the old woman laps up the liquid.
The patient smacks her lips and lets out a sigh of relief, "Ah, much better. When...when will I be able to return home, dearie?"
Dr. Florence stiffens a little and thinks, "Will this sweet woman ever get the chance to return?"
She responds with something she learned back in her college days, "When all is well. When your body is properly recovered. When...the threat has passed. The nurses will care for you with utmost vigilance; of that, you have my solemn word."
"What am I even sick with? I can barely hear a blasted thing these people try to tell me. And trying to talk over all the shouting is a fool's errand. What curse courses through my body??"
"Do you not own a radio, ma'am? Have you not been tuning into the broadcasts from the IMOH? Does your family not keep you up to date on any and all goings on? What of your community?"
"I am a woman of the land. Nature has and will always be my one true god, not you--your blasted Emperor! And the radio interferes with the natural energies of the land. Now, what of--of the curse that courses through my once-vital body? What is the name of this curse?"
Dr. Florence patiently explains, "Surely, you must know that you have the White Plague - as it has been officially called. It has become as brutal and unpredictable as a whiplash or a hurricane. My condolences, but you must stay as still and calm as possible."
"Hmph. Are you able to cure it?"
"I--I suppose so, ma'am." It's a lie and the doctor knows it. No known cure exists for the blight, as far as the topmost doctors and scientists of the Imperial Core were able to verify.
Dr. Florence changes the subject and queries, "Are you a--a pagan, then?"
"Why? Is that an issue? I thought that care was given unconditionally to any and all when step into this hospital's hallowed halls."
Dr. Florence bobs her head, her expression somewhat apologetic, "I'm sorry. Yes, care is provided to any and all of Empire's subjects. Loyal...or otherwise."
The old lady weakly waves her frail hand as an attempt at dismissal, "Tch. I am what I am, girl. I only came here because my offspring forced me to. My son is a banker who, last I heard, is holidaying in one of the distant Colonies. Speaking of, are the Colonies affected by this White Plague?"
Dr. Florence recalls, "We believe that the Colonies are the focal point for this disease. From there, it was said to have been imported into the Core."
"Ah. Well, isn't that just a ruddy shame! But those people are more in touch with the old ways, so I sincerely doubt that this plague originated with them. Curse, rather. Hrmph. Maybe this is all a sign, portends of things to come?" She searches the doctor's eyes for signs of agreement.
Dr. Florence doesn't bother to follow this tangent, "I am going to fetch something that might help you rest a little better, ma'am. O--one moment, please."
The old woman shakes her head weakly, "It's not like I--I can go anywhere in my near-invalid state! Please! Take your time! Not like I've got anything better to do, right now." She groans and winces in pain as a sharp sensation shoots through her torso.
Dr. Florence heads to the medical cabinet and opens it with her entrusted key. The glass has been reinforced with sellotape in order to deter potential break-ins.
She withdraws a medicine bottle, of sorts. From there, she finds a clean spoon and pours some of the medicine onto the implement.
The patient narrows her eyes, "I was expecting an injection in the arse, but oh well, might as well feel like an infant again!" She opens her mouth wide, her breath utterly rancid and her teeth somewhat crooked.
Dr. Florence proficiently feeds the patient the spoonful of the green-brown fluid. The patient swallows and grimaces, her expression shifting from mild disgust to surprise.
"Oh. It tastes like...sweetened venison. I--I think."
Dr. Florence side-eyes the old lady, "You still have your sensation of taste, ma'am?"
"I suppose so. Why?"
The good doctor further prods, "Can you still smell?"
"Huh? Of course. It's fucking rancid, by the way! Why wouldn't I be able to, anymore? Speaking of smell, you ought to use my recipe if you want to bring an end to this olfactory assault. The old ways, dearie. Crush some herbs, mix some thyme, lavender, a drop of vanilla, a dash of s--"
Dr. Florence interjects, "Ma'am. Listen, for a moment. Please, this is important. You are certain that you can still t--taste food and smell the surroundings, ma'am?"
"Fuck's sake, stop repeating yourself! Yes, I can. And the gruel here is truly awful! The porridge for the children seems preferrable in comparison, even if it's all lumpy and uneven."
Dr. Florence has that contemplative look making its way onto the seen portions of her face once more, "Interesting. Did you test positive for the White Plague, ma'am?"
The ma'am in question heaves a sigh, "Yes. That's what they told me. But I never really paid attention to the specifics. And why did they have to run those cotton swabs all up and down my throat and into my nose, hm?"
Dr. Florence plainly answers, "Procedures, ma'am. Protocols. It's how we can be absolutely certain whether you're infected or not. Please, try to see things from our point of view. This is--is all so sudden. We were truly caught unawares. Moreover, we are far from prepared for the ravages of this--this--"
"Curse."
"No. Novel virus, as my mentor would say."
"Potayto, potahto. And why does my neck feel so heavy. What kind of a virus is this, anyway? My whole body feels so--so strange, dare I say alien, to myself."
Dr. Florence quickly answers, "It's primarily a respiratory virus - hence the masks. I would love to explain more, but I have...others to attend to, ma'am. Please, ring the bell near your cot if you require any further assistance. And I do mean any assistance. We--we are here to serve you. All of you."
The old pagan lady weakly waves the doctor off, "Yes, yes. We'll see about that. Make sure to secure me a bowl of porridge the next time, too. Anything but that wretched gruel."
Dr. Florence quickly nods, "I shall see what can be done." And with that, she makes her way to the next person.
On her way back, she ponders the situation and formulates a theory, "In her advanced age, her sense of taste and smell should have been obliterated by now. How far infected is she, truly? Do her senses still work after she tested positive, or is she just another outlier? A statistical anomaly as my mentor would often say."
Her contemplation is interrupted by an unmasked nurse, heaving and panting. He's asking for assistance in the maternity ward, speaking too fast for her to comprehend at first.
"Dr. Florence. W--we need your immediate assistance, please! NOW!"
While running through the grimy halls, she asks herself, "But what valid reason is there to let any stone of possibility unturned, when the stakes are this high?"
A group of people surround a convulsing person and are looking on helplessly. The nurse impatiently explains, "Your immediate assistance is needed." Blood is pooling around that person's arms.
Dr. Florence smells the metallic odor. It stings her nostrils. The members of the Orange Guard come plodding through. They remove the onlookers and kneel down besides the bleeding man.
Dr. Florence inspects that man and notes that his garb - patchy as it may be - is that of a nurse. He wears a torn plastic sheet over his body as extra protection. It is mostly opaque, but not entirely. His arms have been cut with a scalpel.
The good doctor feels for a pulse and is happy when her fingers detect the weak but present thumping.
She looks up at the other nurse and asks, "What happened to him?"
The nurse rubs the back of his neck and grimly answers, "He tried to take his own life, doctor."
The Guards look away. Some others have the decency to cover their eyes or leave the scene.
Dr. Florence firms the line of her jaw and nods once, "I--I see."
The nurse who brough her here further adds, "He was putting in shifts that lasted the whole day and went beyond his allotted time slots."
Dr. Florence nods in understanding and starts to look for the implements necessary to administer first aid. The Guards idly stand by, their loaded rifles slung on their shoulders, not yet aiming them but very clearly ready to. Should the situation suddenly demand it.
Dr. Florence loses her balance after slipping in the puddle of blood. She gets up, curses, and quickly looks around for something to staunch the ceaseless flow of blood. She fumbles with the gauze and cries out for some help.
The nurse offers to help. Despite his shaky hands, he is able to bandage his colleague's arms adequately enough.
The nurse who attempted suicide begs, "Please. Enough. No. Let--let me just fucking die. I--I can't do this any longer. P--please. I don't want to--to be infected. This is simpler..." He trails off, his words as shaky and labored as his breathing.
Dr. Florence winces, "We--we have a duty of care. And you are needed on the frontlines of--of this battle against a scourge unlike any we've ever faced before! Now, I'm going to--"
The dying nurse manages to grip her wrist, his hands slick with his own blood, "You don't understand. I can't...do this. Everyone I ever--ever loved and cared about...they're all dead. Let me join them."
He looks up at the nearest Guard with pleading eyes, "Take me outside and shoot me, Guard. Charge me with whatever crime you see fit. Highest treason against Emperor Himself, if--if you deem it suitable. Just shoot me, brother...end my misery. Put...put a stop to the pains of my heart."
The other nurse mumbles to himself, "There's only so much that we can take...Emperor have mercy on us all."
Dr. Florence shakes his hand free, "I'm not giving up on you. That's NOT what I was taught in college. Now, shut up and please let me treat you, no matter the cost."
The Guards finally speak up, their voices a monotone drone, "Your benevolent efforts are noted. But even if he were cured, he'd be even more worthless than an invalid. Perhaps putting him out of his misery is--"
Dr. Florence gets up and wags her blood-stained (albeit gloved) finger at the member of the Orange Guard, "Hush! As Emperor is my witness, I AM NOT LETTING THIS MAN PERISH!" She grits her teeth and furiously goes back to the task at hand.
The Guards pause, frown slightly, and lower their shoulders.
She figures that it would be best to get the poor, disoriented man patched up and secured in the ICU. For additional security (more for his benefit than anyone else's), she sees to it that he is strapped onto a cot. Tightly.
He can't take his own life if his hands are bound, after all.
The bodies are everywhere. In the hallways, the once-private rooms, and even in the steps outside. They're sometimes left in dark corners, where leaking pipes drip dirty, grimy water over those who may or may not still be alive.
Nurse Bathurst works and works, even beyond his allotted lunch time (which is a meager ten minutes before he is called to assist again). He trips over an upturned table and lands squarely on his back. His limbs hurt and his spine aches like never before.
He is helped up by his colleagues and shambles his way back onto his feet. After changing his mask, he washes his hands, shakes them dry, and spots Dr. Florence hastily making her way to yet another section of the ward.
"Dr. Florence!"
She stops in her tracks and clicks her tongue, "Oh. Bathurst. I'm terribly sorry, but I--I have to--"
The nurse sincerely smiles at her, but there's still a great deal of pain in his eyes, "Please. A single word and I shall heed your command and leave you to your duties."
Dr. Florence folds her arms.
Bathurst clears his throat, "I heard how you saved his life. He's a dear friend of mine. We'd often go to the tavern after a long, long shift. We went to school together. We even climbed trees together. He survives his wife, uncle, and small child - they all perished in the initial weeks of the infection."
"I'm sorry to hear that."
"Even then, he continued to diligently work. He held so many hands and bore witness to so many dying wishes. How many years will it take to fix him, if such a thing is even possible? Or will he simply be discarded in the sanitarium?"
Dr. Florence stifles a sigh, the urgency of her existing tasks never far from her mind, "I don't know, nurse. But the sanitarium could be a valid choice. He is...rather delirious."
"Is that your personal or professional opinion, Dr. Florence?"
The lady in question pauses. She firmly nods at the nurse, turns away from him, and briskly returns to the duties at hand.
She shouts out orders, occasionally checking up on the few remaining patients who have either fallen asleep...or tragically perished. She can't really tell anymore.
The good doctor can't allow herself to think about whether the patient is dead or merely resting. When even a faint pulse is not found, she calls for the Guards. They remove the body and pour the usual amount of disinfectant on the cot.
Once it dries up, the linens are quickly changed, and a new patient is brought in. The discarded linens are either washed or burned, but supplies are running quite low.
The wails and cries of a baby are filling the hallway. The mother of the wailing wean has her breast bared. But no milk seems to be coming out. She's seated on the floor and her eyes are closed, tears streaming from her cheeks as she sings a lullaby in a desperate attempt to calm the baby.
Bathurst tries to sound sympathetic when saying, "You cannot do that here. Please, seek privacy if you wish."
The mother ignores the nurse and encourages her baby girl to take sustenance from her, even if it's through a teat that is struggling to produce vital nourishment.
The baby latches on, but the mother winces when her nipple is tugged. It must not be the most pleasant feeling, given the situation.
Bathurst sighs and puts his gloved hand on her shoulder, giving it a little shake to grab her attention.
She jerks her head to the left and winces again, "What? Bugger off! I 'ave nowhere else to go! Me baby's hungry and me husband's dead of this White Plague! Look, mate, if ye're gonna tell me to--"
"I...I'm sorry to hear that. But you cannot do this in--in the hallways."
"Tch. Try me. One of your mates said the feedin' rooms was full, yeah? Well, I can't wait much longer. Ya hear? White Plague or not, I've got a little mouth that still needs fillin'."
Bathurst adjusts his mask and stifles a sigh, "Well, you can't--you cannot do this...here! OK. How about I fetch you something to...cover up...that." He gestures to her fully exposed breast.
"Got a blanket or somethin'?"
"At the current tense moment, a torn sheet is all I can muster, I'm afraid."
"Eh, fine. A sheet will do."
The hours are agonizingly long. People continue to perish, with the doctors and nurses powerless to do much against the ravages of the White Plague. Bodies fill up the basement till space is no longer available.
Only the lucky ones are tossed into the open graves alongside the pile of already-deceased victims. The rest will have to be incinerated at the soonest possible moment.
It is a horrifying experience for all involved, especially those who have to transport the bodies.
dinner guards managed to shoot and kill some uninfected deer. a tense affair under lit candles. death bells still toll into the hours of what promises to be a long, long night.
horrors do not abate.