Title: GRIM
By: Paddy
About: A plague ravages the length, width, breadth, height, and depth of Empire. This is an accounting of those times. This is an indictment of those who are responsible.
Writing Start Date: July 14th, 2026
Writing End Date: WIP
Fandoms: N/A. Original Work.
Genre(s): Gothic Horror, Historical Horror, Drama, Intrigue, Supernatural, Tragedy, Magical Realism, Political Horror, Social Horror, Economic Horror, Elevated Horror, Imperial/Colonial Horror
Content/Trigger Warnings: Intense Violence, Blood & Gore, Disease, Infirmities, Pestilences, Sickness, Torture, Strong Language, Slurs, Bigotry/Hate, Racism, Queerphobia, Sexual Content/Scenes, Full & Partial Nudity, Alcohol/Substance Consumption, Smoking, Human & Animal Death, Suffering, Xenophobia, Colonialism, Imperialism, Ableism, and so on.
Inspirations (Not ALL of them, just the main ones):
Film: Waiting For The Barbarians (2019)
...and other things, some of which I'm not wholly comfortable listing out.
Folio One: Death Bells
Ding, ding, ding, ding. The echoing of the bell at the entrance of the graveyard seems to make the ground beneath it tremble. A pale and somewhat jaundiced arm rings that rusted bell again and again. The clapper swings with every shake.
A pair of mourners is led past by a weeping mother - an old and portly lady who can barely walk. The trembling hand rings the bell again, this time with more vigor and less patience.
The mourners maintain a distance of at least six feet away from each other - the guidelines from the Imperial Ministry of Health (IMOH) are quite insistent about how far to stay away from one another.
The ringer of the bell wildly cries out, "Gone! Gone! Woe has befallen the Empire! Woe has befallen the Colonies! Blessed is the Emperor! Blessed is Empire!"
The members of the Orange Guard take no chances. They, too, maintain their distance whilst escorting these mourners through the entrance to the graveyard. Their orange uniforms lack any of the luster that once graced them and are now faded and dirty.
Some wear facemasks whilst others have no other choice but to wrap thick pieces of cloth around their mouths and noses.
A member of the Guard has his bolt-action rifle slung across his back. A hand rests on the pommel of his sword as he and his companion usher the mourners past the wrought-iron gate.
There's a slight twitch to the guard's eyes as he turns his head slightly to catch a glimpse of the weeping mother.
The old woman's eyes are hollow. Her steps are heavy and labored. Her movements are sluggish and slow. She has neither said a single word nor shed a single tear since arriving here at the graveyard.
The pallbearers are dressed in the finest of the Empire's garments - black coats, white collars, and purple cravats. The clapper of the bell rings out again and again.
"Woe hath befallen us! Woe hath befallen us!"
A pallbearer who looks no more than eighteen years of age scoffs, "Get that blasted mendicant out of here! He's disrupting things!"
The woman behind him, hushes him, "That 'mendicant' as you so rudely remark is your uncle...or what's left of him, anyway."
"He's annoying and distracting everyone."
"Leave. Him."
The boy forces a sigh through his teeth, "Fine." When he breathes out, his glasses fog up and he blinks a few times as it slowly clears away.
The mendicant in question is not wearing any kind of protection on his pock-marked face - he perhaps believes himself invincible or lucky to have survived this long. His cracked lips are moving and he's uttering something or another, but no words are discernible from the mumble.
All he wears is a simple sackcloth. His hair is wild and unkempt. His limbs are frail and thin. A far cry from the man who used to be the treasurer of this seaside town.
There are other mourners who stand at the graveside, some of them are family members and the rest are simply members of the community.
The palls are heavier than they look. Demand soared and the prices for just one of them had risen so high, that the makers of these palls had made a sizable fortune from the sale of just one alone.
In the palls, many bodies are wrapped up in fine silks. It was either that or letting the Orange Guard burn the bodies with the flamethrowers - chances cannot be taken when it comes to such weighty matters.
The stench of death is the only thing that fills the air. Even now, other members of the Guard stand as though they are ready to perform an execution via firing. They raise their flamethrowers high in the air, steady themselves, and wait for the signal from their Commander.
The Commander in question somberly says, "May Emperor forgive us. Burn the bodies!"
A pile of bodies are then set aflame. Some of the passing mourners gasp or avert their gaze. The dead corpses will take time to burn - the stench just got a whole lot worse.
The mendicant rings the bell again and again, his movements becoming more and more frantic and his arms and hands trembling with every swing.
"Woe are the Colonies! Woe is to the Empire! Death has befallen us all! Blessed is the Emperor!"
Someone asks the closest member of the Guard, "Shoot him already."
The member of the Guard adjusts her mask and shakes her head from side to side, "I'm afraid that I--I cannot do that."
The mourner rudely asks, "Why not?"
"He has already been infected - numerous times. And each time, by some or the other miracle which I lack the education to explain, he has somehow survived. Perhaps he's the Emperor's will, or the Emperor's blessing, hmm?"
"Uncle Thomas has been driven to madness. He is not a miracle; he is a statistical abnormality. And he's not even wearing a mask. Stupid man."
The member of the Orange Guard holds onto her bolt action rifle just a little tighter than before but does not lift it from its place.
The palls are finally set down at their intended grave sites. The mendicant keeps ringing the bell and saying those same words again and again. But by now, the others tune his ramblings out.
A small child of not quite seven-years-old is standing amongst the others who are at the graveside. He, too, is wearing his mask as mandated by the IMOH guidelines - even children are not immune. This was a lesson that was, unfortunately, learned the hard way.
The boy looks at the body in the pall with some measure of sadness and wonderment. He keeps fiddling with his heavy gloves.
His mother has her hands on the boy's shoulders as she quietly observes. His father maintains a ramrod posture and his lips are pursed into a straight line. He is clad in proper mourning attire. His hazel eyes are locked onto the horizon and seem to have no intention of looking at anything else.
Smoke billows in the farthest corner of the horizon. Black clouds hang above the graveyard. Small squads of the Orange Guard patrol the area.
The priest was one of the first to succumb to the horrors, so the next best thing was a filing clerk. He is in his forties, clean-shaven and quite nervous. He reads off a few points which he has hastily scribbled onto a piece of flimsy paper, "We are gathered here today to honor the memory of--of the members of the Raffles family."
The filing clerk pauses before continuing, "To lose the last of one's entire family in a single stroke is--is nothing short of brutal."
A murmur of assent goes around.
The clerk gulps and proceeds, "It has only--only been a few months since this senseless tragedy befell our quiet town. We thought ourselves invincible, untouchable. We believed that it would only affect...other people. Those kinds of people. N--not us." The manner in which he says this indicates a certain prejudice.
Nevertheless, he painfully admits, "But no, it affects us all. It discriminates not by origin, birth, sex, age, creed, or--or whatever else. We are all vulnerable to it - a lesson that was taught to us harshly and without any mercy. But it is in the grace of Emperor that we are still here today."
A higher-ranking member of the Guard nudges the clerk and harshly whispers something in his ear. The clerk feebly nods and looks around.
He wraps it up by saying, "We--we mustn't spend any more time outside than is absolutely necessary. The town's interim council has decided to implement the lockdown...starting in a few hours' time. A quick word of prayer before we send these souls off to their last resting place."
Even the members of the Orange Guard bow their heads in prayer. Not like there's much point in it, but what else is one supposed to do in a situation like this?
Thomas sits on the ground and rocks back and forth. He babbles about random things that don't quite make any sense.
"I have seen wondrous visions! I have beholden wondrous things!"
A member of the guard melees him with the butt of his rifle. Thomas falls to the ground and groans in pain.
"SILENCE! Have you no respect for the dead?!"
Thomas clutches the wound on his head and crawls away. The brief prayer comes to its conclusion, and the mourners of the dead begin their solemn journey back to their homes. On the way back, some stop by the shops. The lines are quite long.
As of late, a system of rationing has been implemented. Every day, the food stores are counted and recorded. They don't want to admit it, but things aren't looking too good. As such, extra regiments of the Orange Guard have been dispatched and are stationed at every corner of the town.
At least some are able to afford a funeral and are able to bury their loved ones. Many others have no such privilege and are forced to watch on in horror as the bodies are incinerated with the help of the flamethrowers.
A lady puts a few cans of peas inside her purse. She drops a few coins on a sterile tin plate. Skin-to-skin contact should be kept to a minimum. Yet another IMOH guideline that came far too late.
The woman is gaunt and the skin on her face hangs loosely. Her husband is a doctor who was called to the frontlines in this battle. She has not received any mail from him in weeks. She fears that the worst may have already happened. For all intents and purposes, she is now the sole breadwinner for her children.
The lines of unfortunate souls have not shrunk since the early hours of the morning. The Guard keeps a close eye on everyone. Their faces are covered and their lips are set in a straight line.
One of them warns someone, "Six feet apart!"
That person raises both hands in the air and takes a few steps back. A small child's voice can be heard asking his mother, "Why do we have to stay away from each other?"
The parent gently answers, "Because that is the rule. Stay away from others until further notice."
Thomas sits at the edge of a bench, his knees are drawn up to his chest, and his grimy hands are on his cheeks.
"'Twas a dream...'twas a dream. Something great and might sweeping across the lands of--of Empire...Colony and Core alike. Tremble. Tremble, ye mighty ones!"
After the funeral...
Large gatherings are expressly forbidden. Yet another lesson learned far too late. As such, only a few people sit around a large supper table and eat whatever gruel passes for food during times such as these.
Thomas sits at the end of the table, his eyes are bloodshot, and his lips are bloody. He was invited more out of pity, but everyone does their best to maintain their distance from him.
He says, "Blessed is Emperor for--for the sustenance that graces our tables." The frail man brings the bowl up to his lips and gulps the contents therein.
Annabelle grimaces at how messy he's being. She averts her gaze and pokes the mashed potatoes and carrots scattered on her chipped porcelain plate. She scoops up some of it with her fork and brings it up to her mouth.
"This is not a feast fit for people like us," she says while covering her mouth and not making eye contact with anyone.
She forces herself to swallow the food before going on, "Where is the meat? Some pheasant or--or beef, perhaps? I heard that the Edgeworths are doing rather well with their hog farms."
Percy wipes his mouth with a napkin and informs her, "I heard that the Orange Guard have been taking them."
"They have?"
"Oh, yes. Soldiers, above all, need their meat more than the rest of us, it would seem. Other livestock are taken and executed because there's a chance that they, too, might be infected."
Thomas nods, "Y--yes. Precautionary measures. W--wise. I don't remember what...meat tastes like. Even smells elude me now. I--I used to have so much meat. The--the old wife always complained about--"
He breaks down into tears and softly sobs when remembering his wife. Even a small child starts to cry and Annabelle picks her up. She rocks the child up and down, hastily making her exit from the dining room.
In between sobs, Thomas asks, "What happened to us? How did it become so--so bad? So blighted? We thought that it wouldn't affect us."
Percy lowers his head and notes, "We were naive. Unprepared. And if I had any strength left in my body, I'd strangle you. The town treasurer...how could you not know, not care?!"
Thomas wipes his tears away, "We were all caught off guard by it! The initial reports CLEARLY mentioned how this had only been affecting the Colonies of Empire! The Core was absolutely safe. I--I thought it was some kind of an endemic thing amongst the savages and barbarians of the Colonies. That's what EVERY telegram and radio report claimed!"
Percy points his spoon at Thomas, "Well, it wasn't just something that the savages caught, was it? Did they spread it? Did they bring it to our venerable shores?"
Thomas shakes his head, "No. That...I--I don't know. I don't know what's true anymore; I have no idea what's going on, let alone what the Empire's plans are on--on dealing with this."
Barnaby picks something out of his teeth and lets out a small belch, "The Core is all that matters. To hell with the Colonies. I regularly speak on the telephone with someone high up in the ranks of the Guard, and they claim that battleplans are being drawn up for a full-scale invasion of the Colonies."
He wipes his finger on the plate and proceeds, "If they won't give us what we're owed, then we're just about ready to take it by force. Besides, many of the Colonies have been trying to rise up against our...benevolent governance. So, we've been given a fair pretext for what is otherwise a justified, ahem, response."
Percy clicks his tongue, "Crushing the Colonies and ransacking them - while not a bad idea on paper - isn't exactly something that'll be sustainable for the long run, old boy. We need our Emperor now more than ever. We need His wisdom, His guidance."
Barnaby mirthlessly chuckles, "Yes, maybe we do, but there's still our resource shortages and the looming threat of everything else."
Thomas drinks some water and lets out a contented sigh, "We--we have to prepare ourselves. It has only been mere months since these horrors have paid us a visit, but I feel like years have already passed by. The fear and anxiety of not knowing whether or not I am infected - or whole - every passing day is taking a toll on me."
Barnaby remarks, "You're a lucky bastard, you. If only Lady Luck had us all under her watchful gaze."
Percy waves a hand dismissively, "Luck has very little to do with it. It is simple statistics, old boy. Genetics, environment, diet, exposure - it's all quite simple. I wouldn't wish to bog any of you down with the details - we hear enough of that on the IMOH broadcasts. Suffice to say that the odds are stacked against us."
Fearful gasps and whispers can be heard throughout the dinner table.
Annabelle returns and asks Thomas to leave. She tries to do it in a way that doesn't come off as too rude. She tells him that the children in the house are rather afraid of his entire demeanor.
The former treasurer pensively lowers his head and leaves. The others give him a wide berth as he trudges out.
Annabelle looks at him with sympathy, "I'm sorry, but we--we simply cannot take any chances. Please, try and understand. I can call the Abbey and ask if they--"
Thomas is unable to look her in the eye. He slowly shakes his head, "It is no worry, my dear. What has befallen me has befallen me. If I must die tomorrow, then it is as Emperor wills it. If I must live, then it is as Emperor wills it, too. Regardless, I shall find my way. Please, say hello to the children for me. Do you still have that carved toy?"
Annabelle forces a smile and sniffles, "Yes. I--I do."
Thomas smiles back, "My memory is not what it was, my dear. Was it an elephant or a bear?"
"An elephant. You said that a subject from one of the Colonies - a child - taught you how to carve it."
"Hmm, yes. I shan't be taking any more of your time, my dear. You have children to bathe and--and put to bed. May the Emperor watch over us all. I shall roam the streets."
She sighs, "Please, don't go too far--"
He breaks out into song and slowly sings as he weakly hobbles down the stairs. The housemaids immediately get to work. They don their protective masks and gloves and begin to wipe down the seat that Thomas had sat upon.
Outside, the sun is just setting. The darkening skies are stained a reddish color. A few gunshots ring out in the distance.
The streets are mostly empty. Only sparse patrols of the Orange Guard roam the streets. There are many houses which are boarded up and shuttered. Many businesses are either condemned, quarantined indefinitely, or are just simply empty.
The stench of death doesn't abate. If anything, it's getting stronger and stronger. An Orange Guard patrol simply passes by Thomas, who is now sitting on a bench overlooking the ocean.
He mumbles, "Death awaits us all. Death has come upon us. 'Tis only a--a matter of time till we are all swept up by it."
The wind is strong, carrying with it odors foul and unmentionable. Thomas has already lost his sense of smell - one of the initial signs of being infected.
He leans forward and clasps his hands together, "May the Emperor protect us all. May the regions and territories of the Imperial Core be kept safe from the blighting ravages."
He slowly closes his eyes and starts praying. After doing that, he rises up and politely waves hello to two small children who shouldn't be outside past the set curfew time. They keep their distance and hastily hurry along the cobblestoned street.
The former treasurer then sits back down on the bench and watches a few members of the Guard unloading bodies onto the sandy shores of the beach.
A single member of the Orange Guard walks over and pokes him with his rifle, "You. Get up. We need help. Any help, at this point."
Thomas keeps his hands raised, so as to indicate that he is unarmed - the Guard is just waiting for a reason to shoot, and they'll seize upon any provocation.
The member of the Guard then turns around and jerks his chin at the shore below, "Help us tally the dead. I don't know how it's possible, but our new Regiment Commander is an imbecile. And I myself cannot read. We require somebody to help us count and mark them all. You are educated, are you not, my good sir?"
Thomas adjusts his rags and answers in the affirmative, "Yes, yes, very much so. I even went to college. I--I think. You will forgive me if I am slow. I am not as sharp as--as I once was. You see..."
The member of the Orange Guard interjects, "I don't care about any of that. Our orders are to burn the corpses soon after they are counted. If we're not quick, Emperor knows what will happen."
"Ah, yes. Fair enough. In my youth, I visited a Colony. The locals were rather accommodating, which came to me as a huge shock, really!"
Along the way to the beach, the mendicant goes on and on about his journeys through the width, length, and breadth of Empire.
On the way, the soldier is forced to listen and take note of the details, many of which go over his head. He stops a few times to make some adjustments to his metallic mask and to check the bullets in his rifle.
Down at the shore, some of the Guards are talking amongst themselves.
Beth straightens her back and prods, "Why not put those savages in the Colonies to work? Wouldn't that address our...err...resource shortages and what have you?"
Tom clicks his tongue and winces, "As it is, we're already reeling from the Great War, and those blasted uprisings have started popping up like weeds. Those barbarians - I am told - are already demanding for the right to elect their own representatives, can you believe it? From amidst their own kind. Is His Holiness not good enough for them?"
"Where is the Lord Emperor, anyway? I--I only saw Him once when I was but a little girl. His carriage passed through my village."
Tom shrugs elaborately, "I know not what the plans are for these matters, Beth. High Command only tells us what we must needs know. Everything else is someone else's problem. Hmph, look, that blasted bell-ringing mendicant is coming our way. Tch."
"You harbor dislike for the man. Why? What has he done to you?"
"I know not much of politics and such things. All I know is that they should've been better prepared for the tide. He was the treasurer! Where--where did all that coin go, pray tell?"
Beth shrugs back at him, "Into the sea, mayhaps?"
Thomas approaches the gathered Guards with clasped hands. His back is slightly hunched, and he seems to have trouble walking. He winces terribly when he sees all the wrapped-up bodies piled on the sand.
The man who escorted him here gives him a slight nudge, "We need help in counting this before we 'ave to light the fires. You can read, eh?"
Thomas incredulously asks the gathered Guards, "Can--can none of you read??"
Shaking heads all around.
The mendicant sits on a large rock and asks for a writing implement and a piece of paper. It takes a good five minutes for someone to return to him with the requested items.
Thomas furrows his brow and beckons for the Guards to lay the bodies out one by one. He goes over the body and writes down the details on a sheet of stained paper. Gunshots echo from the distance, but nobody pays much mind to it. They've become inured to this sort of thing by now.
By the time it's all done, Thomas announces, "Twenty-six souls. Poor, poor souls. Some of these shrouds are...rather tiny. I shan't venture a further guess. Personal effects?"
A Guard replies in the negative, "Not anymore. We had to firebomb them, sir. Given the severity of the situation in the other townships, an aerial bombardment was--was deemed necessary."
Thomas's face scrunches up. He looks away and mutters, "Blast! I don't see tags on any of them. Do you at least know their names? Did the doctors--"
The Guard gravely replies, "They ARE the doctors...and nurses, too. Or were. We found them dead in their makeshift hospital. Bodies strewn everywhere. Twenty-six of them, yes?"
Thomas covers his mouth with his hand, "Emperor have mercy. Y--yes, twenty-six of them. I need someone to sign here."
Since the members of the Guard can't even read, they mark the sheet of paper with a simple "X". With shaking hands, Thomas adds his signature to the bottom and hands it back to the Guard.
The man who brough him here says, "You're welcome to stay, but I recommend that you...err...take your leave, sir. Not everyone has the stomach for what's about to happen next. And the smells alone haunt you more than you know, sir."
Thomas agrees, "Yes. I shall take my leave now, young man. What happened to us, hmm? Our Empire? Our Empire, I ask you?!"
"I am but a humble member of the Orange Guard, sir. Such questions go over my limited understanding of things. Sorry."
Thomas shakes his head and shuffles back up, muttering to himself all the while, "How did we fall so terribly?"
He finds his bell from earlier and goes around ringing it while loudly announcing, "GRIM ARE THE DAYS AHEAD! GRIM ARE THE DAYS AHEAD!"
After he's "asked" to stop, he hobbles over to the Abbey but is turned away at the door due to them being over-capacity. Even his usual bench is occupied by a masked beggar snoring away.
The bells of the Abbey ring out again. Thomas frantically rings his little bell along with the large bells of the Abbey.
"GRIM ARE THE NIGHTS AHEAD! Grim are--"
A member of the Orange Guard comes running over. She swiftly whacks the racket-causing mendicant on the back of his head with the butt of her rifle. Another Guard arrives and drags him off.
Thomas is forced to lie on the ground of what now counts as holding area for people who may still be loitering outside after curfew.
He weakly comes around and mutters, "I--I shall be all right, don't you worry about me. Ow! My--my head. Great god, that stings! Ow!" He grimaces when touching the wound and pulls his fingers back, covered in a bit of blood. He wipes his fingers on the nearby wall.
After a few moments, the Guards who escorted him arrive with yet another prisoner. This bearded tramp is dressed in a tattered suit. He's not wearing any kind of protection.
When he requests a mask, the Guards instead deliver a swift kick to his gut and lock him up in the same makeshift cell as Thomas. The floor is covered in hay meant for livestock. The cracked walls are a depressing shade of yellow.
The tramp groans and coughs rather violently. The Guards don't bother with any kind of medical treatment.
Thomas crawls over to the tramp and pleads with the Orange Guards, "He needs help! He is showing signs! The broadcasts mention the symptoms--"
A Guard indifferently responds, "There are barely any medical supplies. The Orange Guard has commandeered them. WE need them more than some piece of fat lard who won't be missed."
"Then get him a bloody mask, you bastards! Can't you at least spare that?! Have you no decency, no consideration for the sufferings of--of your fellow man?!"
"Easy for you to talk, treasurer. We're in this mess partly thanks to you lot."
"Be that as--as it may, this innocent man has NOTHING to do with any of that! Get him a mask or--or even a simple cloth with which he can cover his mouth and nose, at least!"
The man's coughing ceases. He finally speaks, his voice hoarse and low, "He is...please, help me. I feel...horrible. Need treatment."
Thomas puts his hand on the tramp's back and sets him upright, "What's your name, friend?"
"Hugo. I was in--in one of our Frontier forts. I am an accountant by trade."
Hugo has a few pimples all over his round face. His black hair is matted and sticking out all over the place. He coughs a few more times, each time a bit harder than the last.
He goes on to explain, "We had no civilized form of communication at the Frontier fort. It was only when I was on--on a cruise ship bound for the Core when I heard the first news broadcasts via the ship radio. Panic set in almost immediately. We couldn't risk infection...I took a lifeboat when the survivors were--were asleep."
Thomas inquiries, "What happened to them?"
"I don't know. All I knew is that I had to get out of there. I know not how it's possible for a ship that far out at sea to become infected, but we were. People were dropping dead like flies. Someone had already thrown the bloody guns overboard...I couldn't risk being shot if I was caught...or worse."
"How long ago was that?"
"Weeks, I think. I only arrived on--on your town's shores a day ago. I hid out in a shack and slept it off. Until these bastards found me and started asking all sorts of questions."
"Like?"
Hugo glowers at the Guards, who now have their backs turned, "They wanted money - a bribe. Can you believe that? Our venerable Orange Guard stopping to such low levels unbecoming of their capes, rifles, and cloaks."
Thomas mulls a few things over in his mind, "I--I see. I can't say that I'm surprised, honestly. Loathe as we are to admit it, even the Orange Guard have families and loved ones to--to worry about. I don't blame them, I really don't. They are simply doing their duties and carrying out the orders of the Lord Emperor Himself."
Hugo weakly asks, "Do--do you know what's going to happen to me? I feel like shit, like absolute shit. I have trouble breathing. Even with my spectacles - which are no longer on my person, I'm afraid - I had trouble seeing. I had to squint till I developed a headache, and my ears are ringing constantly."
Thomas fixes the other man with a look of sympathy. His shoulders sag and he sighs, "I am...sorry, but it's probably too late for you."
Hugo's expression falls. He weakly asks, "How can you be so sure?"
"Trust me, I know. When you've been staring death in the face for as long as I have, you come to develop a sort of instinct. Your body betrays you, my friend."
Hugo buries his face in his burly hands and weeps. His muffled sobs fill the cell.
Thomas pats the other man's back and tries to encourage him, "Like me, you might survive. Maybe the Emperor looks favorably upon you? Maybe you are in the good graces of who you need to be. Have faith in--in Emperor, my friend..." he trails off, not even sure if he himself has any faith left.
He then queries, "What is the situation on the Frontiers?" This is more of an attempt to divert Hugo's attention towards something else, rather than out of any genuine interest.
"Catastrophic," Hugo responds, further words failing to come out.
The desperate man asks, "Is--is there no cure for my predicament? No tinctures, tonics, or remedies." There is but a hint of hopeful anticipation in his voice.
Thomas smashes the last vestiges of hope like a boulder by saying, "No. None that any of us know of, f--friend. Guard! Please! This man needs medical attention! He needs--"
The Guard retorts, "The infirmaries are already full! What the hell do you expect me to do, treasurer?! March in and shoot dying people so this washed-up tramp can have his turn?!" He storms out without bothering to hear what the former treasurer has to say.
Hugo gathers up some hay and lays his weary head on it. He shuts his eyes. Despite the hacking coughs, he soon dozes off.
"I'm sorry, my friend," Thomas whispers, "I'm so, so sorry." Even he succumbs to sleep. His body has already been taken to its limit - and beyond. His senses are dulling. Yet, through some cruel twist of fate, he is still here.
Nightmares and rather inexplicable visions torment both men. Hugo's eyelids flutter wildly, as he tosses and turns in his sleep. Thomas groans and begins rambling incoherently.
Hugo's head lolls back and forth.
The toll of the Abbey's bell serves a rather rude awakening for the pair. Thomas's eyes snap open, and he rises with a start. Hugo lazily props himself up by his elbows and yawns loudly.
A Guard peers through the barred window of their makeshift cell and says, "Morning. You're alive. Hm. Wonderful. Wait here. I'll be back with your meals." The contempt in his voice is barely hidden.
Thomas calls out, "What's the situation? Have there been any developments?? Guard! Guard! Have the cases gone up or down! BLAST!" Spittle flies out of his mouth.
The Guard doesn't deign to reply and instead departs, his heavy boots ringing out in the distance.
Hugo sits up and looks around. He rubs the side of his head and groans as he pops his stiff joints. He looks at Thomas and asks, "What was it that you asked? Cases?"
"Hmph. Yes. A very good morning to you, too."
"Of course. Manners cease to mean much in such dire times as these, I suppose. Good morning. How do you do?"
"Hmm. All is as it should be, I suppose. It is increasingly harder to come by proper information these days, Hugo. The radio broadcasts are sparse and the information that the IMOH puts out is - in my opinion, at least - rather inconsistent and all over the place. Even the Orange Guard is becoming unruly."
Hugo rubs his grumbling belly, "I'm hungry. I could go for some wild hog right about now."
Thomas bitterly chuckles, "Wild hog, eh? Even the animals aren't immune from this scourge, my good friend. Not even the produce of our great lands is safe. In the early months, they destroyed tons of foodstuffs. I only saw the Orange Guard carting it all away - I couldn't tell you for certain if they were contaminated or not, if you get what I'm saying."
"Emperor 'ave mercy. Even the livestock have started showing symptoms?"
"Oh, yes. They either have to be put down or consumed quickly - but only after cooking them for hours on end. Even that's no guarantee that they're safe for...err...consumption."
"Well, it's a damn shame. What kind of slop is on the menu, then?"
Thomas dusts his hands and pats his cheeks a few times, "You'd be lucky if the gruel isn't thin. My advice? Just be grateful and--and swallow what you're given, eh? Now's hardly the time to complain, is it? Especially when people writhe and suffer in our infirmaries. Or what's left of them."
A Guard appears with a tray. On it are two bowls of disgusting-looking, watered-down gruel. Steam barely rises from the bowls. Thomas and Hugo share a look with each other and sigh heavily.
The Guard slides the tray through an open slot, "That's all you'll get."
Thomas tries his luck, "Guard? What is your name?"
The member of the Orange Guard brusquely answers, "Edward. What's it to you?"
"You're new here?"
"Transferred from up north. Regiment's been taking heavy losses lately. High Command is giving the troops the ol' shuffle around to keep them on their toes. I've seen my share of action. Not just here, but in the Great War, too."
Hugo chimes in, "Thank you for your service, Edward."
Thomas fervently nods, "Yes, yes. Very much so. Edward, would you be a--a lad and perhaps fetch us some bread? Even if it's a bit moldy, I--we wouldn't mind the extra bit of nutrition."
"No."
Thomas tries to be nicer, "Come now, please? How would you feel if you were in our position? We're not as young and spry as you are. Even though I cannot see your face, I am sure that you are still quite young in years. Younger than myself, at the very least."
"What makes you lot special?"
Thomas shrugs, "N--nothing, really. It's just that my friend and I would--do need our strength if we are to, perhaps, contribute in some way or another. We still have our uses, my good sir!"
Edward derisively asks, "Then why are you both in here?"
Thomas blinks a few times before replying, "Err...circumstances beyond our control."
The member of the Orange Guard sharply exhales, "You want some bread, eh?"
Hugo has a glint of hope in his droopy eyes, "It would be nice..."
Edward pulls the tray towards himself, lowers his mask, and spits in the two bowls of gruel. He brings the mask back up to his face, turns on his heel, and calmly strides away.
Hugo's face twists into a horrified grimace.
Thomas's expression falls. When Edward pulled down his mask, he caught a glimpse of a few pockmarks not too dissimilar to his own. His eyes slowly trail down to his hands, which are also a tad scarred.
Thomas hopelessly mumbles to himself, "We--we are citizens of Empire. We have rights, privileges. We aren't savages or--or second-class citizens, are we? How could this happen...we are the very subjects of His Holy Highness."
Hugo drags the tray closer and grunts, "This Empire has gone to shit. I'll eat pigfeed if I must, but I simply have to put something into my belly."
Thomas vacantly stares ahead, "Eat the other one and be merry, my friend. I have...lost my appetite. Losing my sense of taste was--was already bad enough. Why would a member of the venerable Orange Guard do such a thing?"
Hugo is already chugging down the second bowl. He says between slurps, "Who knows? Power? Desperation? Someone weaker to take out one's endless frustrations on?"
He smacks his lips and nods approvingly, "Hmm, didn't taste half as bad as it looked. And it was also a bit sweet."
Thomas dryly points out, "Nowadays, they resort to putting sugar in everything - gives us more energy for the...days ahead. The grim days ahead."
"I see. Any idea when we will be let out of this prison? Does this place have a tavern or--or a pub?"
"You can forget such things. The local tavern is essentially what the scientific minds - or those still alive, anyway - are calling the focal point or ground zero. All manner of people congregated there. And all manner of people perished there, too. The only reason that it hasn't been burned down is due to certain risks associated with burning down Imperial heritage sites and such."
The days turn into weeks. Hugo dies an agonizing death on the floor of a hospital pushed far beyond its limits. His corpse is pale and somewhat bloated. Thomas catches it again and this time, Lady Luck doesn't seem to be on his side.
Two pale corpses are wrapped in dirty rags and loaded onto a horse cart that is already weighed down by the multitudes of humans. The cart is pulled by a team of horses and the wheels squeak and screech.
The rider relentlessly whips the animals. He wears a tattered cloth around his lower face. His eyes are covered with a pair of goggles, and his ears are covered in a scarf given to him by his mother. He is only nineteen. He was promised medical care should he aid in the ferrying of the corpses.
The odors alone overpower him with a great sense of nausea. Regardless, he powers through it and ensures that the bodies reach their intended destination. It's on the outskirts on this seaside town, far away from where he lives.
He does not know how many people perished or are currently awaiting their turn. A few members of the Guard accompany the young lad, lest any brigands or other desperate sorts get any fanciful ideas.
The bells of the Abbey toll, its metallic sound echoing throughout the empty streets. It fades away as the horse-drawn cart leaves.
At an unspecified site, the bodies are unceremoniously unloaded. Members of the Orange Guard stand ready with their flamethrowers. Their tanks are full and their resolves are steady.
Their eyes are filled with a mixture of fear and determination.
Thomas's limp body is carelessly tossed into the pile. Hugo's body goes into a separate pile, as is mandated by the new rules and regulations.
On the loud command, the flamethrowers are raised high in the air.
"READY!" a feminine voice bellows.
She goes on to declare at the top of her lungs, "AIM!"
The Guards take careful aim.
"FIRE!" she loudly orders.
With their weapons pointed at the piles, they squeeze off volley after volley. A wall of flames spurts out of the nozzles and envelops the corpses. The fire rapidly grows taller and taller. Thick, acrid smoke plumes permeate the air.
One of the Orange Guard's heads twitches. Once it all dies down, they take their leave, turning their backs on the piles and the ashes.
On the way back, the members of the Orange Guard make a mental note to keep a cautious distance from any corpses that they might come across - even in death, one is still infectious.
Grim are the days ahead.
Folio Two: Doing Battle Against The Invisible Enemy
Fraught with peril are the days ahead. It has only been mere weeks since the first confirmed cases have been reported. Mere weeks since the emergence of this catastrophe.
When Dr. Florence had graduated from the Royal Imperial College Of Medicine (the RICM), this is not how she expected the trajectory of her profession to go.
She now finds herself seated in the back of a repurposed troop transport, on the way to a crumbling hospital that is hours away from overflowing. Somewhere in the middle seat row, a small man adjusts his facemask and groans. There is a high chance of it slipping from his face.
Dr. Florence clicks her tongue and shakes her head while helping him with his straps. She forgot the little man's name as soon as he was introduced. As a way to pass the time, she looks at him.
Wrinkly brown eyes, pale complexion. Prematurely graying brown hair. He's nobody special by any means.
The troop transport goes over a terrible bump, causing its numerous occupants in its open back to jostle uncomfortably. The air around them is thick with the pungent and acrid scents of fear, mild body odor, and smoke from the burning bodies.
Large squads of Orange Guard have been setting alight the unfortunate and the departed, all throughout the streets and piers. Flamethrowers are mercilessly and readily used.
Dr. Florence mutters to herself, "The graves...are overflown. And that's not to say anything about our own hospital's mortuary either. Even we have ordered mass burnings of the infected corpses. Emperor have mercy."
Dr. Florence is in her early twenties. Her brown hair is braided and concealed under a stark white cap. Her ocean blue eyes peer out into the misty distance. Her bony fingers are gloved and interlaced together, resting on her lap.
There are a number of other medical personnel, nurses, cleaners and assorted others who have been deemed as essential workers by the Imperial authorities. A few of the newer hires sit together quietly, carefully scrutinizing and observing everyone else for signs of the illness.
Dr. Florence is given an appreciative nod by the small man. He sounds so muffled under his mask, "We are very fortunate to have you. Thank you again for volunteering to assist us, Dr. Florence."
She dryly responds, "It is not like I - nor anybody else here - had much of a choice in the matter. Empire needs us. Lives need saving. As soon as we get there, be sure to wash your hands before even attempting to touch a patient."
The little man chuckles, "Indeed! In case it slipped your mind, the name's Bathurst. Nurse at Saint Claire's for the past decade."
She reintroduces herself, "Dr. Florence. Recent graduate from the RICM. With full honors. First woman in my family to hold a degree. I must admit that this is not how I anticipated my career to go. Nor I think anyone else, for that matter."
Bathurst exhales sharply, "In all my years, I've never quite seen anything like this, doctor. And to think that it has only been weeks- weeks! - since the first case was confirmed."
The two spend a moment in silence. The others amongst them clasp their covered hands in prayer or check on their equipment and supplies.
The entire troop transport screeches to a sudden stop. The two Guards at the front hop out and grab a small beggar boy by the collar of his gray rags. They throw him onto the side of the road and kick his rucksack towards him.
The bulkier Guard hisses at the lad, "Fuck off, you dreg! We nearly ran over you! What possessed you to meander in the middle of the bloody road?!"
Dr. Florence cranes her neck to get a better view.
She notices some treatable wounds on the poor beggar boy's arm. And what very well may be the beginnings of a broken leg, likely from the Guards' assault. She pushes her way to the back of the vehicle and jumps out.
Her borrowed boots hit the hard and uneven ground with a thud. The others gasp and look at her. Some chastise her and tell her to get back in the troop transport and let the Orange Guards handle the situation.
The Guards do not notice her walking up to them, her footsteps punctuated with sheer purpose and determination. One of them is just about to hit the unfortunate boy with his rifle butt, when Dr. Florence gets in between them.
"This boy requires medical attention," she says, her eyes as wide as an owl's.
The other Guard growls at her and order, "What in Emperor's name do you think you're doing? Get back in!"
Dr. Florence stands her ground. She lightly shoves the guard aside, sets her medical bag down, gets on one knee, and begins to inspect the young beggar boy's leg. She mumbles under her breath, "Thankfully it is not that badly broken. But the arm, however...Emperor have mercy on his soul, why have you not sought medical care sooner?"
The lad shakily answers, "There was n--no time. I--I've been up and down the streets f--for days now, begging for food and coin. I heard of the catastrophe from the radio in a shack, so I decided to try and leave. Gah! It--it stings!"
He groans as Dr. Florence expertly wraps his wounded arm in some treated gauze. She dabs it a few times with some cotton drenched in orange liquid.
The boy gasps, "What is that?"
"Something to ease the pain," she professionally answers.
The Guard who cursed at the lad lightly taps Dr. Florence with the tip of his boot and prods, "Are you done treating this boy? He'll be dead before the end of the month, anyway? So, what's the point. Meanwhile, the people at--at Saint Claire's NEED US! My own nephew is--is there and--and--"
Dr. Florence sighs and nods, "Yes. I am sorry, just another moment. Please. Wait in the transport. You are needlessly scaring this poor and misfortunate child."
The two Guards impatiently but reluctantly stomp their way back to the troop transport.
Dr. Florence smiles, but nothing is immediately visible thanks to the mask covering her face. However, her crinkling eyes are visible enough. She takes out some salves and bandages and proceeds to tend to the young boy's broken leg.
The boy licks his lips, "You seem good at this, ma'am."
The good doctor shakes her head and sighs deeply, "I am but a humble graduate student. A bachelorette who has been plunged into her first major medical crisis. Your limbs should be fine now. Try not to put too much strain on them. One moment, please..."
She rummages through her bag and produces a simple mask. She gives it to the boy and says, "Here. Please. Put it on. Over the nose. It's...not much, I'll admit, but it's better than absolutely nothing. Death is in the air. Only take it off when you absolutely have to. Do you understand what I'm saying?"
The lad grabs the mask and puts it on. He nods his head up and down. The hopelessness in his glassy eyes is quite evident. His rags are tattered and his possessions less than meager.
Dr. Florence looks over her shoulder. She can feel the pressure of all those eyes boring into her. A few moments pass, then she stands and returns to the troop transport.
The young beggar lad stands aside and vacantly watches the behemoth of a vehicle depart. His mouth is agape and his heart is heavy. He grunts and limps away to the side of the road.
Dr. Florence turns her head to look at the lad, one last time.
Bathurst shakes his head and tuts disapprovingly, "We can't really afford to get sentimental or--or attached, doctor. Not in this line of work. I am sorry, but I hope that you are able to learn that, sooner rather than later. Didn't they teach you this at the RICM?"
Dr. Florence's chuckle is tense, "Ironically, I was sick during that day. Seasonal hay flu."
The troop transport chugs along until it comes across a hastily setup barricade. Rubber, wood, and stone. Some of the vehicle's occupants loudly comment and wonder how in the world they're supposed to bypass it.
The lead Guard gruffly calls out, "Stay put! Hold onto something!"
The other Guard asks, "Who erected such a shoddy blockade?! Did one of those bloody troublemaker groups assemble it?!"
"Don't know. Don't care. Orders are to get these smart 'uns to St. Claire's in one piece. And fast! I'm going to go over that damn thing! Hold on back there, the ride may be a bit rough, from here on out!"
The troop transport - repurposed and shoddy as it may be - somehow manages to pulverize the barricade. Debris and splinters fly everywhere. The winding road ahead climbs upwards and leads into an uncomfortably dense woodland area.
"Brigands will undoubtedly be roaming these parts. Shit..." The other member of the Orange Guard trails off and checks the ammunition in his rifle.
(It wouldn't be the first time that these people have been ambushed by equally desperate people looking to claim loot, supplies, and even weapons.)
The men sitting in the front have their rifles ready at all times, while the ones in the back continue to furtively examine their colleagues for signs of the terrible disease.
They also look around and see that the trees of this area are developing telltale signs of a blight. The leaves are pale and have some light spots on them. White clouds of dust gently escape from some of the potentially diseased trees.
Nurse Bathurst gesticulates to the trees and remarks, "We should cut them down. Which is a damned shame, because I remember coming here as a child and climbing them all the way to the top, like a monkey. Emperor's mercy..."
The troop transport approaches a higher elevation, where the entire city is visible below. Foul black smoke billows high from a place somewhere in the western quarter. There are a number of factories and residences down there.
The death bells, wailing voices, and plaintive moans have NOT quieted down. Rifle shots are occasionally heard, followed by the occasional shriek.
A quick breeze ruffles the clothes, masks, and faces of the troop transport's occupants.
Dr. Florence swallows the lump of fear in her throat and tells herself, "We're almost there. What's the caseload like today, I wonder?"
Saint Claire's is now a husk of its former self. Once viewed as one of the best hospitals in all of Empire (or this part of it, at least), its rotting walls are now covered in moss and ivy. Windows are either boarded up or grimy.
And upon arriving, the ghastly smell of rotting flesh hits the lungs, like a hammer. But the masks do help to mitigate most of it.
Not everyone was so lucky, because Dr. Florence can see a number of Orange Guards who keeled over after taking a sniff of the decaying cadavers. Even after death, it ravages the bodies of the victims in unspeakable ways.
Dr. Florence surveys the area and is dismayed, if not mildly terrified, by the extent of the infection. Just yesterday, the bodies in the hallways weren't yet rife with the pus. The bloody and gaping holes in the living were not yet as large.
Worse yet, there are even more bodies in the once-sterile hallways of this once-venerable institution. The Emperor Himself inaugurated Saint Claire's many, many, many years ago. Ever since then, it has fallen to neglect.
Neglect led to disrepair. Disrepair soon made way for shortcuts to patch the ever-increasing structural issues. And that soon gave way to the current miserable state of St. Claire's. The powers that be shrugged their shoulders, turned the other way, and pretended like all was well.
Fraught with ruin is this hospital, indeed. But it's all that the denizens of this city have got, even if it is a flimsy boundary between life and death.
Many more people have either been discharged or are even being FORCED to go home - there is simply no place. Triage has been implemented numerous times over.
Dr. Florence and the other essential personnel begin to make an orderly exit from the vehicle and quickly get to work. It is not long before they are joined by a few others with similar expertise and aims. Their faces are masked, but the bagginess of their eyes and the way in which they move speaks volumes of the fatigue that they're experiencing.
Disinfectant solution, pain relieving unguents, towels, bandages, needles, and other critically vital supplies are running low. Dangerously low.
A nurse tells Bathurst, "Supply deliver isn't for another few weeks! How are we supposed to hold out until then?!"
Bathurst huffs a long sigh and walks to the front of the hospital. He turns around and addresses Dr. Florence, "What do you think, doctor? Can we keep rationing the medicine until the next shipment of supplies comes in?"
Dr. Florence recalls one of her earlier lessons, "Watered down medicine isn't just ineffective. It's criminal neglect and a betrayal of our oaths as rational people of science. At best. At worst, it's outright poison! We could be charged with murder!"
Bathurst nods and picks up the pace, not saying much as way of response. He steps over a bunch of writhing and unconscious patients who have not yet been assisted, let alone assessed. One of them has an important-looking pin on their hat.
He ignores that and goes to the hand-washing station. The others aren't too far behind him. Dr. Fiona has to wait in the midst of hopeless, heartbreaking, and stifling screams.
She tells herself, "Each death is--is a crime."
The pandemonium unfolds around her in a slow and agonizing fashion. Wails, sobs, retching, and the whirring of wheel carts fill the hallways. Space to maneuver stretchers is rapidly becoming scarce.
The two nurses scurry inside one of the few clean operating rooms in the main wing and get ready to perform an emergency surgery on a particularly difficult case. A ghastly, haggard, and distressed intern is already present, gathering the correct implements and checking things - thrice - to ensure that they're sterile.
Nurse Bathurst gestures an empty hand-washing station. She rolls up her sleeves and gets to washing her hands, all the way up to her elbows.
While scrubbing with the special soap, she asks, "Do we not have hand sanitizers on site? Perhaps more modern dispensaries than...this!" To reinforce her point, she gestures to how rusted the station is.
Bathurst is quick to answer, "I'm afraid not. As things stand, we've been running on a pitiful budget, doctor. And I've learned that even the charity of strangers has its limits."
His eyes crinkle when he musters up a smile, "Now, once again unto the breach! To do battle with the invisible enemy, eh?"
Dr. Florence nods and echoes, "Hm. Yes. To do battle against the invisible enemy."
The deemed essential personnel are rotated in completely arbitrary shifts. Dr. Florence sees more faces than she cares to count. Mere flashes of humanity. All of whom are distressed and trying their best to do good with the shoddy tools and cramped quarters that they're working in.
The nurses gather around a few bodies wrapped in burial shrouds. A few more of their close colleagues tragically perished the night prior. Their heads are lowered pensively. Some begin to mutter a quiet prayer while the others let their eyes flit about and focus on anything except the fallen.
Dr. Florence makes her way to the office of the hospital's administrator. He is a man of average weight and height. He's decidedly middle-aged, with a full head of short and cropped auburn hair.
He does not wear a mask. His white coat is somewhat stained with the blood and other unspeakable fluids of the excessive patients.
When Dr. Florence inquires about the sudden spike in infections, he frowns and sighs. The plaque on his door reads: "DOCTOR HAROLD DAWES, ADMIN. PHD, MSC, RTRMS, MMGM".
Dr. Dawes shakes his head and recounts, "We believe that the infection is spreading. And rapidly. Cases have shot up since you were last here, which...wasn't even that long ago." His voice is deep but strained, likely from all the shouting he has been doing.
"Patients are dropping like flies..." Dr. Florence grimly notes.
Dr. Dawes folds his arms and shuffles his feet, "We're already stretched thin as it is. Go now. See what can be done to aid these unfortunate souls."
"Where's your mask?"
"T--took it off for a while. In all fairness, the IMOH guidelines have been...inconsistent. There has been more emphasis on hand washing as of late."
Dr. Florence fixes him with a sympathetic look, "Please, sir. Put it back on. Emperor forbid, but if something were to happen to you--"
Dr. Harold holds out his hand, palm facing outward, "The Emperor protects, my dear. The Emperor protects. Have you managed to listen to the most recent broadcast?"
Dr. Florence sighs and shakes her head, "I was too busy trying to not let the screams interrupt my limited sleep, sir? What was it about?"
Dr. Harold smiles a little, "The Emperor is alive and well. His voice is as vital and strong as ever. A few of the magistrates have decided to shut down most forms of public transport. A lockdown is also to be implemented at the soonest opportunity. Hence the blockades, I suppose."
"Too little, too late."
"Hm. Perhaps. But we must try to stymie the spread of this scourge, no matter the cost."
Dr. Florence firmly nods, turns on her heel, and hurriedly makes her way back into the mayhem and misery of an overcrowded maternity ward. The sounds of the wailing babies are drowned out by the sounds of frantic footsteps rushing to and fro.
The good doctor holds onto her stethoscope and carefully steps over a few people lying on the floor. Some of the unfortunates tug at her pants and beg her for help. For some reason, they are not receiving their proper treatment.
She ducks down and shines a small flashlight into their jaundiced eyes, wincing and then gasping when she sees the telltale yellow shade. She loudly commands, "See to it that they receive the proper medication! They don't appear to show signs of infection...yet."
Despite the pleas on their wrinkly faces, she can offer them no more help. She makes her way to an area where some additional cots have been set up. A shoddy and quickly put together ICU.
The patients are rambling incoherently, complaining about the sound of the ringing bells, and groaning horribly. The buckets besides their cots are filled with bile and milky-white substances. Some of the patients have a startlingly pallid complexion.
Dr. Florence makes her way to an older lady lying on the farthest corner. Upon closer inspection, she can see the woman's throat is horrendously swollen. Another telltale sign, if the doctor ever saw one.
She applies a cold compress to the woman's forehead and is startled when the lady grabs her arm with a vice-like grip. The old lady's green eyes are wild and wide.
The doctor softly but firmly commands, "Ma'am. Please, don't touch me. Transmission can happen, even through touch. And I do not possess many garments in my wardrobe to change into."
The old woman's parched, chapped lips move. She asks, "W--water, please. G--give...me--me...water. Give it to me, girl!"
Dr. Florence sighs and fills a small cup with some purified water. She'd normally boil it, too, but she is rather pressed for time at the moment. She regrets being so careless as soon as the old woman laps up the liquid.
The patient smacks her lips and lets out a sigh of relief, "Ah, much better. When...when will I be able to return home, dearie?"
Dr. Florence stiffens a little and thinks, "Will this sweet woman ever get the chance to return?"
She responds with something she learned back in her college days, "When all is well. When your body is properly recovered. When...the threat has passed. The nurses will care for you with utmost vigilance; of that, you have my solemn word."
"What am I even sick with? I can barely hear a blasted thing these people try to tell me. And trying to talk over all the shouting is a fool's errand. What curse courses through my body??"
"Do you not own a radio, ma'am? Have you not been tuning into the broadcasts from the IMOH? Does your family not keep you up to date on any and all goings on? What of your community?"
"I am a woman of the land. Nature has and will always be my one true god, not you--your blasted Emperor! And the radio interferes with the natural energies of the land. Now, what of--of the curse that courses through my once-vital body? What is the name of this curse?"
Dr. Florence patiently explains, "Surely, you must know that you have the White Plague - as it has been officially called. It has become as brutal and unpredictable as a whiplash or a hurricane. My condolences, but you must stay as still and calm as possible."
"Hmph. Are you able to cure it?"
"I--I suppose so, ma'am." It's a lie and the doctor knows it. No known cure exists for the blight, as far as the topmost doctors and scientists of the Imperial Core were able to verify.
Dr. Florence changes the subject and queries, "Are you a--a pagan, then?"
"Why? Is that an issue? I thought that care was given unconditionally to any and all when step into this hospital's hallowed halls."
Dr. Florence bobs her head, her expression somewhat apologetic, "I'm sorry. Yes, care is provided to any and all of Empire's subjects. Loyal...or otherwise."
The old lady weakly waves her frail hand as an attempt at dismissal, "Tch. I am what I am, girl. I only came here because my offspring forced me to. My son is a banker who, last I heard, is holidaying in one of the distant Colonies. Speaking of, are the Colonies affected by this White Plague?"
Dr. Florence recalls, "We believe that the Colonies are the focal point for this disease. From there, it was said to have been imported into the Core."
"Ah. Well, isn't that just a ruddy shame! But those people are more in touch with the old ways, so I sincerely doubt that this plague originated with them. Curse, rather. Hrmph. Maybe this is all a sign, portends of things to come?" She searches the doctor's eyes for signs of agreement.
Dr. Florence doesn't bother to follow this tangent, "I am going to fetch something that might help you rest a little better, ma'am. O--one moment, please."
The old woman shakes her head weakly, "It's not like I--I can go anywhere in my near-invalid state! Please! Take your time! Not like I've got anything better to do, right now." She groans and winces in pain as a sharp sensation shoots through her torso.
Dr. Florence heads to the medical cabinet and opens it with her entrusted key. The glass has been reinforced with sellotape in order to deter potential break-ins.
She withdraws a medicine bottle, of sorts. From there, she finds a clean spoon and pours some of the medicine onto the implement.
The patient narrows her eyes, "I was expecting an injection in the arse, but oh well, might as well feel like an infant again!" She opens her mouth wide, her breath utterly rancid and her teeth somewhat crooked.
Dr. Florence proficiently feeds the patient the spoonful of the green-brown fluid. The patient swallows and grimaces, her expression shifting from mild disgust to surprise.
"Oh. It tastes like...sweetened venison. I--I think."
Dr. Florence side-eyes the old lady, "You still have your sensation of taste, ma'am?"
"I suppose so. Why?"
The good doctor further prods, "Can you still smell?"
"Huh? Of course. It's fucking rancid, by the way! Why wouldn't I be able to, anymore? Speaking of smell, you ought to use my recipe if you want to bring an end to this olfactory assault. The old ways, dearie. Crush some herbs, mix some thyme, lavender, a drop of vanilla, a dash of s--"
Dr. Florence interjects, "Ma'am. Listen, for a moment. Please, this is important. You are certain that you can still t--taste food and smell the surroundings, ma'am?"
"Fuck's sake, stop repeating yourself! Yes, I can. And the gruel here is truly awful! The porridge for the children seems preferrable in comparison, even if it's all lumpy and uneven."
Dr. Florence has that contemplative look making its way onto the seen portions of her face once more, "Interesting. Did you test positive for the White Plague, ma'am?"
The ma'am in question heaves a sigh, "Yes. That's what they told me. But I never really paid attention to the specifics. And why did they have to run those cotton swabs all up and down my throat and into my nose, hm?"
Dr. Florence plainly answers, "Procedures, ma'am. Protocols. It's how we can be absolutely certain whether you're infected or not. Please, try to see things from our point of view. This is--is all so sudden. We were truly caught unawares. Moreover, we are far from prepared for the ravages of this--this--"
"Curse."
"No. Novel virus, as my mentor would say."
"Potayto, potahto. And why does my neck feel so heavy. What kind of a virus is this, anyway? My whole body feels so--so strange, dare I say alien, to myself."
Dr. Florence quickly answers, "It's primarily a respiratory virus - hence the masks. I would love to explain more, but I have...others to attend to, ma'am. Please, ring the bell near your cot if you require any further assistance. And I do mean any assistance. We--we are here to serve you. All of you."
The old pagan lady weakly waves the doctor off, "Yes, yes. We'll see about that. Make sure to secure me a bowl of porridge the next time, too. Anything but that wretched gruel."
Dr. Florence quickly nods, "I shall see what can be done." And with that, she makes her way to the next person.
On her way back, she ponders the situation and formulates a theory, "In her advanced age, her sense of taste and smell should have been obliterated by now. How far infected is she, truly? Do her senses still work after she tested positive, or is she just another outlier? A statistical anomaly as my mentor would often say."
Her contemplation is interrupted by an unmasked nurse, heaving and panting. He's asking for assistance in the maternity ward, speaking too fast for her to comprehend at first.
"Dr. Florence. W--we need your immediate assistance, please! NOW!"
While running through the grimy halls, she asks herself, "But what valid reason is there to let any stone of possibility unturned, when the stakes are this high?"
A group of people surround a convulsing person and are looking on helplessly. The nurse impatiently explains, "Your immediate assistance is needed." Blood is pooling around that person's arms.
Dr. Florence smells the metallic odor. It stings her nostrils. The members of the Orange Guard come plodding through. They remove the onlookers and kneel down besides the bleeding man.
Dr. Florence inspects that man and notes that his garb - patchy as it may be - is that of a nurse. He wears a torn plastic sheet over his body as extra protection. It is mostly opaque, but not entirely. His arms have been cut with a scalpel.
The good doctor feels for a pulse and is happy when her fingers detect the weak but present thumping.
She looks up at the other nurse and asks, "What happened to him?"
The nurse rubs the back of his neck and grimly answers, "He tried to take his own life, doctor."
The Guards look away. Some others have the decency to cover their eyes or leave the scene.
Dr. Florence firms the line of her jaw and nods once, "I--I see."
The nurse who brough her here further adds, "He was putting in shifts that lasted the whole day and went beyond his allotted time slots."
Dr. Florence nods in understanding and starts to look for the implements necessary to administer first aid. The Guards idly stand by, their loaded rifles slung on their shoulders, not yet aiming them but very clearly ready to. Should the situation suddenly demand it.
Dr. Florence loses her balance after slipping in the puddle of blood. She gets up, curses, and quickly looks around for something to staunch the ceaseless flow of blood. She fumbles with the gauze and cries out for some help.
The nurse offers to help. Despite his shaky hands, he is able to bandage his colleague's arms adequately enough.
The nurse who attempted suicide begs, "Please. Enough. No. Let--let me just fucking die. I--I can't do this any longer. P--please. I don't want to--to be infected. This is simpler..." He trails off, his words as shaky and labored as his breathing.
Dr. Florence winces, "We--we have a duty of care. And you are needed on the frontlines of--of this battle against a scourge unlike any we've ever faced before! Now, I'm going to--"
The dying nurse manages to grip her wrist, his hands slick with his own blood, "You don't understand. I can't...do this. Everyone I ever--ever loved and cared about...they're all dead. Let me join them."
He looks up at the nearest Guard with pleading eyes, "Take me outside and shoot me, Guard. Charge me with whatever crime you see fit. Highest treason against Emperor Himself, if--if you deem it suitable. Just shoot me, brother...end my misery. Put...put a stop to the pains of my heart."
The other nurse mumbles to himself, "There's only so much that we can take...Emperor have mercy on us all."
Dr. Florence shakes his hand free, "I'm not giving up on you. That's NOT what I was taught in college. Now, shut up and please let me treat you, no matter the cost."
The Guards finally speak up, their voices a monotone drone, "Your benevolent efforts are noted. But even if he were cured, he'd be even more worthless than an invalid. Perhaps putting him out of his misery is--"
Dr. Florence gets up and wags her blood-stained (albeit gloved) finger at the member of the Orange Guard, "Hush! As Emperor is my witness, I AM NOT LETTING THIS MAN PERISH!" She grits her teeth and furiously goes back to the task at hand.
The Guards pause, frown slightly, and lower their shoulders.
She figures that it would be best to get the poor, disoriented man patched up and secured in the ICU. For additional security (more for his benefit than anyone else's), she sees to it that he is strapped onto a cot. Tightly.
He can't take his own life if his hands are bound, after all.
The bodies are everywhere. In the hallways, the once-private rooms, and even in the steps outside. They're sometimes left in dark corners, where leaking pipes drip dirty, grimy water over those who may or may not still be alive.
Nurse Bathurst works and works, even beyond his allotted lunch time (which is a meager ten minutes before he is called to assist again). He trips over an upturned table and lands squarely on his back. His limbs hurt and his spine aches like never before.
He is helped up by his colleagues and shambles his way back onto his feet. After changing his mask, he washes his hands, shakes them dry, and spots Dr. Florence hastily making her way to yet another section of the ward.
"Dr. Florence!"
She stops in her tracks and clicks her tongue, "Oh. Bathurst. I'm terribly sorry, but I--I have to--"
The nurse sincerely smiles at her, but there's still a great deal of pain in his eyes, "Please. A single word and I shall heed your command and leave you to your duties."
Dr. Florence folds her arms.
Bathurst clears his throat, "I heard how you saved his life. He's a dear friend of mine. We'd often go to the tavern after a long, long shift. We went to school together. We even climbed trees together. He survives his wife, uncle, and small child - they all perished in the initial weeks of the infection."
"I'm sorry to hear that."
"Even then, he continued to diligently work. He held so many hands and bore witness to so many dying wishes. How many years will it take to fix him, if such a thing is even possible? Or will he simply be discarded in the sanitarium?"
Dr. Florence stifles a sigh, the urgency of her existing tasks never far from her mind, "I don't know, nurse. But the sanitarium could be a valid choice. He is...rather delirious."
"Is that your personal or professional opinion, Dr. Florence?"
The lady in question pauses. She firmly nods at the nurse, turns away from him, and briskly returns to the duties at hand.
She shouts out orders, occasionally checking up on the few remaining patients who have either fallen asleep...or tragically perished. She can't really tell anymore.
The good doctor can't allow herself to think about whether the patient is dead or merely resting. When even a faint pulse is not found, she calls for the Guards. They remove the body and pour the usual amount of disinfectant on the cot.
Once it dries up, the linens are quickly changed, and a new patient is brought in. The discarded linens are either washed or burned, but supplies are running quite low.
The wails and cries of a baby are filling the hallway. The mother of the wailing wean has her breast bared. But no milk seems to be coming out. She's seated on the floor and her eyes are closed, tears streaming from her cheeks as she sings a lullaby in a desperate attempt to calm the baby.
Bathurst tries to sound sympathetic when saying, "You cannot do that here. Please, seek privacy if you wish."
The mother ignores the nurse and encourages her baby girl to take sustenance from her, even if it's through a teat that is struggling to produce vital nourishment.
The baby latches on, but the mother winces when her nipple is tugged. It must not be the most pleasant feeling, given the situation.
Bathurst sighs and puts his gloved hand on her shoulder, giving it a little shake to grab her attention.
She jerks her head to the left and winces again, "What? Bugger off! I 'ave nowhere else to go! Me baby's hungry and me husband's dead of this White Plague! Look, mate, if ye're gonna tell me to--"
"I...I'm sorry to hear that. But you cannot do this in--in the hallways."
"Tch. Try me. One of your mates said the feedin' rooms was full, yeah? Well, I can't wait much longer. Ya hear? White Plague or not, I've got a little mouth that still needs fillin'."
Bathurst adjusts his mask and stifles a sigh, "Well, you can't--you cannot do this...here! OK. How about I fetch you something to...cover up...that." He gestures to her fully exposed breast.
"Got a blanket or somethin'?"
"At the current tense moment, a torn sheet is all I can muster, I'm afraid."
"Eh, fine. A sheet will do."
The hours are agonizingly long. People continue to perish, with the doctors and nurses powerless to do much against the ravages of the White Plague. Bodies fill up the basement till space is no longer available.
Only the lucky ones are tossed into the open graves alongside the pile of already-deceased victims. The rest will have to be incinerated at the soonest possible moment.
It is a horrifying experience for all involved, especially those who have to transport the bodies.
Dinner is a fairly muted and somber affair. The cafeteria has been completely sealed off, and the patients are served their dinner through a slot. In lieu of gruel or tasteless bread, however, the doctors and nurses are provided with meat.
The Orange Guards managed to shoot and kill some uninfected deer. Eating is carried out with everyone staying at least six feet apart. It's a tense affair under lit candles. Sounds of chewing - some more pronounced than others - fills the hall.
There's an air of tension, the smell of death and despair filling everyone's nostrils.
Dr. Florence grimaces and sets a bone aside, the meat on it barely cooked. It's a rarity to be sure, and she intends to give the remainder to some of the stray dogs she saw meandering outside.
Assuming that they haven't been chased off or shot by the Guards.
In the far distance, the death bells still toll. Such serves as a signifier of what promises to be a long, long night. Work rotas have been altered and adjusted, accounting for the recent losses.
All hands are needed on deck, even if they're as shaky and as weary as the existing gloved hands already present. Many of the staff have been working non-stop, their energy and motivation kept alive by sheer determination and the desire to keep those under their care alive, beat back the sickness, and keep the land safe from this insidious scourge.
There's talk about bringing in the volunteers from the next city, but such measures are considered a last resort.
Nurse Bathurst belches, excuses himself, and goes over to Dr. Florence. The good doctor is too pondering the situation and going over her hastily jotted down notes.
He asks, "Are you ready, doctor?"
While reading through something, she answers, "Hmm. As ready as one can be. You?"
"Let us go, once more, and do battle against the invisible enemy. I hear the ambulance will bring in a new batch of patients, tonight."
"AMBULANCE IS 'ERE!"
The doctors and nurses ready themselves. They shuffle into position and wait. The first patient is brought in and laid on the floor. Already in the advanced stages of the disease, he's foaming at the mouth and thrashing about, his arms and legs flailing.
The siren on the ambulance has been broken for months now. So, it simply parks outside the hospital, its engine spitting foul exhaust fumes and its driver carelessly smoking a cigarette. He's a tall, somewhat gaunt and lanky fellow who's been wearing the same clothes for a week now.
He puts his mask back on, flicks his cigarette, and walks away, his boots crushing the gravel underfoot. The stress lines under his eyes are very pronounced. He's probably not getting enough sleep, too.
Dr. Florence shoves past desperate, wailing people, and helps lift a patient - a child no more than ten years of age. Together, she and a nurse carry him to a recently sanitized room. The sharp odors of the disinfectant are starting to become familiar.
The child is deathly pale, frozen in the final throes of his suffering. Dr. Florence looks into the child's glassy eyes and assures him, "We're not going to give up on you, young one." She feels his tiny pulse with two of her gloved fingers.
It's barely present. The boy lets out a wheeze and tries to raise his bony arm. The good doctor takes the opportunity to shine a light into his mouth and inspect the damage.
Boils and whitened sores have already made themselves known. His gums are receding and the teeth are slightly loosening. Chalk-like deposits have formed on his tongue. He can't even swallow, his throat having become so swollen and parched.
Bathurst looks into the child's eyes and grimaces, "Emperor have mercy upon his soul."
Dr. Florence gives the boy an injection in the side. The child cries out and begins to convulse.
Bathurst holds the boy down and shouts, "I--I hope this works. He's--he's a young lad, he can't--" He's silenced when the child's convulsing and spasming ceases, his body relaxing and slumping down onto the cot.
Dr. Florence checks for the pulse and nods when she detects a faint one. She takes a syringe and inspects it with a narrowed eye, "It's not the cure. It is merely a stopgap measure. And we...are running out of them. Fast." She sighs and looks away.
Bathurst glumly informs her, "The PPE shipments have yet to arrive. Far be it from me to engage in idle speculation, but it's likely that a band of brigands waylaid the cargo." His words are slightly muffled by his mask.
Dr. Florence sighs, "I shall speak with Dr. Dawes about this. Without our Personal Protective Equipment, we might as well be working while disrobed. Let us make sure the child is comfortable. Please, pass me that compress. I'll dab at his forehead."
A nurse comes barging in, heaving for breath and panting, "There's--there's...Bathurst! We need you."
The nurse in question gives the doctor a firm nod and briskly leaves, following his colleague who had summoned him. Dr. Florence ensures that the child is as comfortable as can be under such strenuous and stifling circumstances.
Once she ensures that the child is resting, she walks through the hallways - which are still full of suffering patients, crying babies, and people who are begging for the Emperor's grace to spare them and their families.
Out of desperation, some individuals lurch forward and grip onto her leg. With pleading eyes, they beg her for help. Their grip is weak, but the Guards barge in, grab them by their collars, and drag them out of the hospital.
Dr. Harold is on the telephone with someone when Dr. Florence knocks. She politely clears her throat and waits by the doorway. She's too tired to walk in without permission.
Dr. Harold's voice is a little hoarse, yet he hisses into the telephone, "I do not care. People are suffering and dying by the dozens. What's the hold-up? And don't give me that blas--blasted excuse about brigands! I have a niece in the Orange Guard, and she tells me that most of those thieves have either been arrested or shot dead."
He forces a harsh sigh, coughs terribly, and resumes, "So I will ask again: WHERE ARE THOSE PPE SHIPMENTS?! They were supposed to arrive two weeks ago! We have had more and more cases of the White Plague, and our supplies are running dangerously low! People are dropping dead like flies! And now, I'm forced to--"
After a long pause, he pensively lowers his head and nods, "I understand. I see. Hmph. Yes, goodbye and...never mind. Hmm. And I will tell the personnel about this."
Dr. Harold slams the telephone receiver down and buries his face in his hands, his shoulders shaking.
Dr. Florence breaks the silence and casts a sidelong glance, "What's the matter? Are we or are we not getting those PPE shipments. We need them, sir."
"They are...cutting their losses. They're giving me every single excuse in the book, Dr. Florence. Every single fucking one of them! We have no choice, I'm afraid. Until salvation arrives, you're going to have to manage. Go. NOW! Wait for the official announcement."
Dr. Florence slightly bows her head and quickly rushes off. With bated breath, she looks up at the hospital's loudspeakers. The intercom crackles and the voice of a man, calm and hoarse, fills the air.
"This is Doctor Harold Dawes, administrator of Saint Claire's. It does not bring me an ounce or--or a shred of delight to share what I am about to share with you all."
Dr. Dawes sniffs and sniffs again, sounding like he's having a hard time keeping his composure, "It is with a heavy heart that I...that I announce...that we have received no word from the next town over. As such, I am ordering full triage to commence. Our stocks of antivirals, antimicrobials, tinctures, and tonics are rapidly depleting."
Gasps of shock from the doctors and nurses on sight. The patients - whether they're writhing on the floor or not - listen in, their breathing ragged and labored.
Dr. Dawes continues, hacking and coughing even more, "I am...I'm afraid that I have no choice but to order a--a full quarantine. That's right. I know that's going to be an inconvenience for many, and it breaks my heart. None shall leave until the testing kits prove that you are all healthy. None shall enter, either."
He puts in, "Not unless it is a--a dire emergency. As of now, St. Claire's is closed. To everyone. This is not a decision I make lightly. We don't have many testing kits, so please, use them sparingly, wisely, and responsibly. The situation is dire. Very dire. That will be all. May the Emperor h--have mercy on our wretched souls."
The speakers click off and there is a stunned silence. The doctors and nurses look around at each other, their masks obscuring the lower halves of their faces. They have a wide range of emotions: fear, rage, and frustration are amongst the more pronounced ones.
The members of the Orange Guard ready their rifles lest anyone get any bright ideas. One of the Guards takes his bayonet and taps on the tip, ensuring that the blade is sharp and ready for use. Just in case.
Some of the patients clasp their hands together whilst others hug their knees to their chests, rock back and forth, and quietly pray for salvation. Salvation in any form, really.
A raggedy middle-aged woman mutters, "Grim. Grim are the days ahead. Grim are the days. Grim." Her face is obscured by a stained scarf, her arms wrapped around a frightened toddler with pockmarks all over her face.
The night is long and each and every single loss is felt. A lot of people tragically perish. More than the projections had previously predicted.
There are far too many bodies, and the mortuary is already quite filled to the brim.
Many people are on their deathbeds, with their loved ones crying by their sides. The nurses tirelessly work and work, now having the additional burden of deciding how to make do with rapidly dwindling supplies and resources.
The doctors are now in a perverse spot wherein they become the very things they had been fighting against: executioners by another name.
Children and working-aged people are prioritized. Even though, not long ago, the radio reports claimed that neither of those groups could catch - let alone spread - the White Plague.
It was claimed to be a disease only of the infirm and the elderly. Yet, such was not the case. Now, all kinds of people are dying by the scores, and there's plenty little that can be done about it.
The PPE of many personnel have already been reduced to the bare minimum. It is beneath inadequate. Most are working with only one layer of gloves, a simple surgical mask, and a flimsy apron.
Some of them even have holes on their protective equipment, rendering it all but useless.
A faint white mist lingers in the air of the hospital. Everyone has become so accustomed to the smell of the disinfectants that the odor seems to permeate every last corner of the building.
And it also helps mask over the unpleasant smell of corpses left to rot. Or worse, burn. Some people have grown accustomed to the acrid stench of burning flesh and the accompanying plumes of black smoke that seem to hang over the city.
Dr. Florence looks through the slits of a boarded-up window and sees a large column of smoke rising into the sky. She can't see much, but the embers of the raging flames are being carried on the wind, some of them floating and falling like ash.
"By Emperor!"
The clocks on the drab walls are ticking loudly, the sound seeming to resonate and reverberate. Members of the Orange Guard load the dead bodies onto carts and callously toss them into the back of a running truck.
The truck then chugs along the road and turns around the bend, its engine making a sputtering noise.
The night passes, and dawn soon approaches. Dr. Florence only managed to catch two hours of sleep. The sky is tinged with a purple and yellowish hue. Birds can be heard croaking and chirping, even though they sound rather distant.
The sun barely peeks out from behind the hills. The light is pale and the air is cold, with the wind blowing rather hard.
A single gunshot rings out. A dog yelps, wildly barks, and scampers off. Dr. Florence's eyes open. The gunshot seemed to have been so close that it could have come from inside the hospital!
Bathurst and a few members of the Guard hastily rush to the source, the former clutching a few medical tools in his hand. He looks around and curses under his breath, "Blast! It--it came from--"
The four Guards who are with him rapidly knock on the closed door of Dr. Harold's office, the loud rapping noises causing no response from the man in question.
After a moment, Bathurst and the Guards storm into the office. Gasps and shocked murmurs fill the air, with the staff looking on.
Dr. Florence shoves past them and falls to her knees when she sees what has become of her the hospital administrator.
"NOOOO!"
A single bullet wound, still smoking, is embedded deep in the man's skull. A service revolver is nearby. The blood from the wound is still warm and dripping, staining the desk and the floor below. A good chunk of his head has been blown out.
Gory bits of brain matter stain the wall and the ceiling, with a large portion splattered all over the pictures on the wall.
A female member of the Guard orders, "Clear the area! At once!"
Dr. Florence looks around for a suicide note, frantically searching his desk, his files, and his drawers. But her eyes are drawn to the testing kit on his desk - it's positive; that alone is enough to confirm the worst.
The good doctor covers her masked mouth with her gloved hands and lets out a sob, her eyes wet and her cheeks moist with tears.
Bathurst pulls her back, "It's best not to stare, doctor."
She shrugs him off and tries to get to the corpse, her grief overwhelming her. The other members of the Guard intervene and pull her back. A few doctors come in and cover the late Dr. Dawes with a sheet.
As for Dr. Florence, she's escorted away from the scene and taken into a room. She calms down and gets her breathing under control, her tears drying and the redness leaving her eyes.
She is asked if she can write a report to the higher authorities. With a shaking hand, she occupies the late doctor's office and jots down everything that had transpired prior to the suicide. The service revolver was procured from one of the more susceptible members of the Orange Guard for coin and promises of treatment.
"Single gunshot wound to temple. Fatal. Tested positive for White Plague. Suicide likely committed as a result." Tense but slightly messy cursive writing. She sighs and wrings her hands, the pressure proving to be too much.
When she walks out, the cleaning staff enter and get to cleaning up the blood and decontaminating the area.
Bathurst is standing by a window, and he gives Dr. Florence a grim nod, "Are you sure that you can carry on?"
Dr. Florence folds her arms and heaves a sigh, her gaze drawn to the window. It's still early morning, and the light is slowly beginning to return.
She eventually answers, "I must try, Bathurst. I must try to keep morale. If I had known--"
Nurse Bathurst clicks his tongue and shakes his head, "You couldn't have. He was...trying to be brave, and strong, and...he likely believed that there was a person more deserving than him in need of treatment."
"We're almost out of treatments."
"Medical malpractice may as well be the norm - I saw a colleague of mine watering down some medicine so that it can stretch a little bit longer...and feed more open mouths."
Dr. Florence doesn't know what to say about that. She just stares off into the distance and tells herself, "May the Emperor forgive us."
Bathurst cracks his knuckles and pops his neck, his muscles and tendons aching and his joints feeling sore, "There's nothing else that we can do, Dr. Florence. If you wish to honor his memory, then do what we do best: save lives. Come, I see the old bakery truck approaching. Let's go and see how moldy those scones are."
She forces a dry chuckle, and the two of them head down the stairs for a quick breakfast. They rip out the greenish bits of the scones and munch on the slightly hardened and flavorless pieces, washing it all down with weak, watered-down tea.
Another doctor spits the tea out and bitterly remarks, "Tastes like swill!"
Dr. Florence forces herself to swallow, "That's because it probably is, doctor. If your sense of taste is failing you, then I strongly suggest getting tested at the soonest. You may have caught something."
He blinks twice and looks at her, his eyes narrowing. Before he can retort, his shoulders sag as he sees the Guards loading up the administrator's dead corpse onto a horse-drawn wagon.
A young boy watches in morbid fascination, the horses kicking up a cloud of dust.
Dr. Florence doesn't bother eating anymore. She pinches off a few bits of her meal and gives the rest to the little beggar girl with cupped hands and a grimy, tear-stained face.
"Eat it carefully and slowly."
She asks one of the Guards, "Where are you taking his corpse, Guard?"
"It's infected. We can't take any risks. It burns like the rest. Sorry, doctor."
Dr. Florence nods and leaves them to their thankless and grueling duties.
As the day progresses, more people fall ill and succumb to the White Plague. During the nights, the horrors do not abate. The weeks are slow and agonizing. The death bells ceaselessly toll until a man goes mad and destroys the bells.
He is swiftly gunned down, his body left to decay and be picked apart by swirling, screeching birds.
Nurse Bathurst is shot and wounded during an altercation over who would be receiving the precious, life-saving antibiotics. He is transferred to another hospital and isn't heard from again.
His absence is keenly felt by his colleagues.
The pagan patient makes a full recovery. But after she is sent back home, she relapses and dies not too long after, all alone and unable to receive the necessary care and treatments. By the time she is discovered, the Guard have no other choice but to burn her entire house to the ground, with her rotting corpse still inside.
Dr. Florence is given a promotion and becomes the acting administrator. She takes over with very little protest. She also inherits her predecessor's office. It has been cleaned from top to bottom, and the pictures on the wall have been taken down.
Her blue eyes linger on his desk, and she can't help but wonder if she too is condemned to such a fate as her predecessor.
She taps on the microphone, the loudspeakers around the hospital carrying her words, "My friends, my colleagues, my neighbors, and those under my care...my name is Doctor Florence Gibbs. Acting administrator for Saint Claire's hospital - or what remains of it. I will not lie about our chances, but we are doing our best."
Dr. Florence blinks the tears away and adjusts her facemask, leaning in closer to the microphone, "Each and every one of us are doing our utmost with the limited supplies that we have. Please, remain calm. Remain patient. While our inventory may not look ideal, the Emperor's grace still shines upon us. I--I can promise you that much."
She takes a few deep breaths and proceeds, "I want to thank the nurses, cleaners, doctors, and other volunteers who's ceaseless and tireless work ensures that our patients are being cared for, and their suffering is reduced to the greatest possible extent. I have been informed - via telegraph - that PPE shipments shall be coming...any day now."
(That telegraph itself was sent days ago, but she consciously omits that fact. She tells herself that it's too little, too late.)
The new administrator clears her throat, "We will continue to fight, and we will continue to strive. I myself will be there - with you - on the frontlines...to do battle against the invisible enemy. We are the last line of Empire's defense. Good--goodnight and good luck."
Cawing ravens peck and pick at the bodies strewn on the streets, the sickened carrion birds filling the air with their loud caws and unusual shrieks. Gunshots ring out at the most random intervals.
The repurposed death bells still toll into the hours of what promises to be a long, long night. Wails of hopelessness and despair echo across the city.
Grim are the days ahead.