Act 7: Daughters Of Cacophony
"Sirens and Baritones (for the females and males, respectively). But the former have always far outnumbered the latter. They have done well to steer clear of the nightly troubles of the Eternal Struggle- they are uninterested in it all (maybe there's some merit to that viewpoint). The Daughters (and The Sons) indubitably have a particular penchant for all things music- I've heard some of their moving performances, even the ones they proudly post online. I feel bad for not telling her, but it's probably for the better." -From the personal audio recordings of Gregory | Entry: On The Daughters Of Cacophony.
The sun is high up in the sky, the Kindred are largely in the pull of their day-long slumber. Even if that great star of fire is hidden behind a thick wall of clouds and light rain, the nocturnal predators cannot truly shield themselves from its piercing, fiery rays.
Cassandra lounges in her bed, kicking off the sheets and humming a little tune under her breath. She has her Blackberry held close to her face, the light emanating from its screen bathing her face in a cool glow.
Birds sing and chirp outside, adding to the vague sense of peace within the Ghoul's small, humble, and cozy abode. She puts on some music from the UKF Drum & Bass YouTube channel, hops out of bed, and begins the morning routine with a pep in her step.
With a yawn and a stretch, she does what needs to be done- brushing, bathing, light exercising, cleaning the house, making a small and modest breakfast for herself, and occasionally chatting with a few friends on Facebook or checking recent developments in the world at large.
(Although, these days, reading the news is like asking for a damage report. Wars of aggression, climate change, social inequality, hatred, maddening greed, and the list of horrors goes on and on. But very few of them connect the dots and name the causes of all these ills: namely, the capitalist profit system).
The UKF D&B tunes still flow freely in the background, giving the early morning a slightly energetic vibe. Cass idly bops her head to whatever's blasting through her phone's speaker and eventually makes her way towards the kitchen to do some more tidying up.
Meanwhile, at the 16th floor of the Blythe Building...
Captain Mark Meadows has a disturbed expression on his face. Norman the Mage is next to him, explaining something, some sort of intel that has recently surfaced.
The Awakened Mage gestures to the bright monitors on the walls and smugly declares, "In a nutshell, she can't possibly be a blank body. But every Dracula has need of its Renfield. We found the Renfield, therefore it isn't too much of a stretch to say that the Dracula is...nearby."
Captain Mark folds his arms and harshly asks, "How did you acquire this intelligence? Not that I doubt what I'm seeing- it's seemingly legit." He eyes the face on the screen with deep suspicion.
Norman scratches his nose and replies, "We have our ways, sir. Just like you have yours."
The Captain of the B16 operation sighs and demands, "I must know how, Mage...and I insist that you do not withhold anything from me. Not with something as vital as this. So, start talking." His muscles clench up and his fingernails dig into his skin.
Norman keeps his composure, "Sometimes, sir, all you have to do is ask the computer nicely." The smugness deepens.
Captain Mark's expression falters, "You people scare me. How did we not see this before?"
"Surely you can't be so incredulous, sir. But it is...her. It has been her, sir. Would you like us to apprehend her? What's the call, sir?" The Mage's eyes twinkle, eager for a new target.
"No. I want to send a message. We've already established that she isn't a blank body. I'll send 2 of my people to deal with her- swiftly, decisively. As soon as she's vulnerable, we'll strike. Unlike Dracula, Renfield is still very much vulnerable to bullets."
Norman shrugs, "Your call, sir. Are you certain that you don't want us providing backup?"
Captain Mark stifles a sigh, "My people are NOT amateurs. Do not patronize me. Remember: you work under my authority, understood?"
The Awakened Mage smirks, "Loud and clear, guv. Might I at least inquire about why you're ordering an assassination and NOT an apprehension, sir?" He arches an eyebrow, awaiting the Captain's answer.
The Captain glares at the Willworker, causing him to take 1 or 2 steps back. He sneers, "To send a message."
Norman gulps and makes a guess, "Ah. This is about what they did to your deep-cover asset in...Birmingham? The Israeli, right? My condolences."
"In a way of sorts. Whoever outed my most valuable asset somehow knew about the operation in progress. You do the math, Norman."
Norman suggests, "The intel is good. But there are clearly more blank bodies in Gloughchester than we originally thought. Hmm, maybe our original estimates were off, or maybe your...primary contact likes playing fast and loose with the truth. Now, now, sir. Don't glare at me like that."
Captain Mark concedes, "Perhaps he is. I shall have to speak to him. Again. And what of our prisoner? Can't you people 'make' blood, so we don't have to keep feeding that monster?"
Norman has no answer to that.
"I asked you a question, magician."
Norman's face tics, "You just do--don't get it, do you? In theory, yes, we could...turn water into blood for that vampire in our custody, but there would be complications. Ones that may further undermine an already tenuous position."
He adds, "True Magick is--is a wonderful thing. And very powerful, too. But when one exercises such power without restraint, the repercussions can easily spiral out of control. Paradox, for any of us, is no joking matter. We've seen it happen before, sir."
"Hmm. I am starting to believe that you are not as all-powerful as you think yourselves to be. Awakened Mages, tch. But alas, we have been ordered to work together. And do that we shall."
Norman licks his lips and, with a sideways glance, proclaims, "We are all, nevertheless, on the same side. Our goals are your goals- for Queen and Country we shall endeavor, shall we not?"
"I'll believe it when I see it. Now, if you'll excuse me..." Captain Mark trails off and calmy saunters out of the room, the Mage's eyes trained on his back.
A woman materializes with a whoosh, a small tear in space-time, and a zap. She stands besides Norman and glowers at the Captain's retreating figure.
Her magenta cape and cloak flutter, she regards the Awakened Mage with an impassive frown. Her hair is a bright shade of orange and her face is a bit scarred.
Norman snaps his head around and musters up the tiniest of smiles, "Norma..."
Norman's Avatar smirks back, "Doesn't he remind you of someone? Or something, rather?" She speaks with a gentle accent, her voice serene and soft. Her glossy lips are upturned; her green eyes exude power.
A pained look crosses the Awakened Mage's face. He grumbles and sheepishly laughs, "I--I don't want to speak of it, but yes, I--I know exactly who he reminds me--us of."
Norma remarks, "They were cruel to you in that blighted boarding school, making you endure things that no small child should be pushed into experiencing."
Norman pensively lowers his head, "But aren't I stronger for having faced the trials and tribulations of it all? Unlike many of peers, I experienced my Awakening when I was much younger than most. I could have used this power for ill but did not."
The Avatar scoffs a little, "You are in the service of the very same people that tormented you- the very same emotional terrorists who don't even realize what they did to the likes of you."
Norman limply holds out his hands in a vain plea to calm Norma down, "Oh, not this conversation again...look, I don't need a voice in my head telling me- at every junction- that what I'm doing is wrong! I--I'm doing it because--"
She clicks her tongue, "Oh, please. I know why you do it and who you think you're doing it for. But you really have to start thinking about what comes after this. Think and contemplate and consider."
Norman gulps and takes a risk by inquiring, "Do--do you have a glimpse into what the future holds? Will Operation Brightburn be a resounding success, will the blank body threat finally be cut down and dragged into the divine light or are we--are we just fighting a never-ending battle here?"
"You are woefully short-sighted and ignorant. But you insisted that this is not a conversation you wish to have right now, so fine. Either way, we will do what needs to be done."
Norman sighs and rolls his eyes as his Avatar begins to dissipate. Before she disappears completely, Norma squeezes his hand and gently whispers, "I'm not just a figment of your imagination. Always remember that."
He mumbles to himself, "I'm not just a figment of your imagination..." Those words were the same thing she used to whisper into his ears when he was a child going through the process of the Awakening.
Unfortunate memories involving bloodied canes, disciplinarians with tempers, screams of the other boys, a despicable Headmaster, and the other assorted traumas associated with that blasted boarding school flood Norman's mind.
(Those boarding schools were bloody trauma factories!)
He wipes his forehead, suddenly feeling a tad disorientated.
Norma "grew up" and "aged" along with Norman. He gave her that name early on, after having endured a particularly vicious beating for not completing his mathematics homework.
He was shivering in the damp corner, knees clutched against his chest, the cold air seeping into his bones. Bruises and welts mottled his skinny frame. Tears fell freely from his eyes like raindrops.
Norman would sniffle and sob uncontrollably until sleep took him.
Captain Mark shoves a hand in his pocket and makes a phone call to the primary contact, who has proven to be a vital and valuable source of intelligence on the inner workings of Kindred Society as a whole.
How this primary contact knows so much about the bloodsuckers is still a bit of a mystery, but the Captain and his people care more about the results rather than the means employed.
"I hope you're not calling me just because you're bored, Mark." A masculine voice, casual and somewhat cheery.
"It's Captain Mark Meadows to you. Hmph, never mind. Listen, I have some questions for you."
The primary contact chuckles, "That's what I'm here for, love."
The Captain ignores the not-so-subtle innuendo, "So, these Kindred...what do you know about their Ghouls?"
"Ah. More than I'd care to, unfortunately. How do you think these things get so much done despite sleeping most of their days away, hmm? All it takes is 3 sips and a Bond soon follows. Depending on certain factors, it could be a fairly strong one or a weak one. But a Bond of Blood all the same."
Captain Mark's face scrunches up in distaste, "And it doesn't weaken them at all?"
"Tsk. Why do you ask questions which I have already painstakingly answered so many times before? You know, you ought to write these things down, Mark. Seriously, I'm beginning to doubt your competency. I am already growing bored with your tedious ineptitude when it comes to retaining basic info about the enemy."
Captain Mark sneers, "How dare you insult me! Why, I have half the mind to--"
"But we both know that you won't- I'm far too valuable to your little crusade. Operation Brightburn, hmm? Besides, my own track record speaks for itself- how many confirmed...neutralizations do I have to my credit?"
Captain Mark hesitates.
The primary contact smugly smirks, "Fair enough, we'll leave it at that. But Ghouls are hopelessly slavering creatures. Sometimes, it gets hard to tell where they end and their master begins. Or vice-versa. Why the sudden interest? Don't tell me that you're now going after...Ghouls."
Captain Mark changes the subject, "Did you have the chance to look at those surveillance photos from Birmingham? Has anything out of the ordinary come to your attention?"
"Nothing, Captain. I took another peek at it last night, still nothing."
"Why do I sense that you're lying?"
The primary contact clicks his tongue, "Come now, why on Earth would I lie to you? We're...mates. Aren't we?"
The Captain curtly responds, "No. You are an informant, nothing more, nothing less."
"And here I thought that we'd at least be drinking buddies. A pint at a pub, that sort of thing. Was I wrong?"
Captain Mark responds, "This murmuring is beneath you. Ghouls can still get severely hurt, yes? Fatally wounded?"
The other man groans, "Yes...oh, fuck it. Fine. I wasn't as busy as I should have been. Are you seated? If not, I strongly recommend sitting down. Here's the deal, yeah...? Oh, wait, my mimosas are coming..."
A Ghoul is slated for assassination by the forces of Branch 16. But who is she, how does she fit into the grand scheme of things, and why is she being marked for elimination?
Why her? Why now?
The afternoon goes by in a flash. Cassandra snoozed off after doing some rearranging of her bookshelves, the rest was uneventful. She wakes up from the nap and checks the clock again. Sunset is imminent.
Sven, thankfully, didn't haunt her afternoon nap. Cass crosses her fingers and hopes that he doesn't interrupt her night either.
The Aapilu makes a few clicking sounds and stalks towards Gregory, its movements jittery and purposeful. The Toreador is paralyzed in fear, his Unliving body refuses to budge.
The creature of the Vitae comes up to him and taps its slimy finger right on his forehead. Gregory's mouth gapes and a small whimper escapes.
The Aapilu replies back with a small series of clicking noises.
Gregory's mind recalls something that his late Sire said. It was shortly after the then-Fledgling had lost his Civil Services job- he was no longer an employee of the Crown.
Greg's Sire encouraged his Childe to get into art dealing, "You, my Childe, are a Toreador. Of the Clan of the Rose. An Artisan! An Aesthete! And we have quite an aesthetic sensibility amongst the Unliving. Adapt, my Childe. You have to. 'Twas bold of you to assume that you could forever be in Her Majesty's Civil Services."
The Sire then says, "There is still time for you to make something of yourself. Now, I shall teach you everything I know. Come, come, don't look so glum! We start tonight! Now, tell me...what do you know of Henri Matisse...?"
The memory fades away. The Aapilu tilts its head and stares into Gregory's wide eyes. The creature makes a few clicking sounds and takes a few calculated steps back before being swallowed whole by the nearby shadows.
Gregory's body jerks, spasms, and crackles as he rolls off the bed and crashes onto the floor with a loud thud. He forces himself to stand up, despite the soreness coursing through his entire frame, and barely manages to steady his uncertain footsteps.
The Toreador's shower is brief and brisk. He dries himself and shivers violently before putting on a new set of clothes- pleated gray pants, a dress shirt, a full-sleeve sweater from last century, and some classy loafers.
He applies some creams, combs his hair, and sprays some cologne on his dead skin before walking up to a full-body mirror. Greg indifferently shrugs and heads downstairs.
"Hiya, Greg!" Cassandra eagerly calls out through the glass windows when she spots her Domitor walking by. She has a cheery expression plastered on her pretty face.
The Ghoul is clad in a pair of jeans, a red shirt, and a black denim jacket. Her brown hair hangs loosely over her shoulders, and her hazel eyes are bright and happy.
Her makeup has been carefully done and consists of shiny lip gloss and a faint application of eye shadow.
Gregory trudges over and silently ushers her inside.
Cassandra excitedly rubs her palms and plops herself down onto the couch, "So, what's the plan for tonight, eh?"
Gregory calmy sits down. There is a hint of something in those lifeless blue eyes of his, "The Sirens. I owe them a favor, and you are to do what must be done on my behalf. Like always, I shan't be accompanying you."
Cassandra tilts her head, "What kind of favor? And who is it, anyway?"
Silence lingers in the air for an uncomfortable amount of time. Gregory is the first one to break the ice, "It's better if you were to see it all for yourself. 1 minute, please. Wait here, I'll be back. Watch some TV if you'd like. Make yourself at home."
And just like that, he stands up and strides upstairs, leaving behind a puzzled Cassandra.
Gregory returns after a few minutes, clutching a small sheet of paper and a packet consisting of what appear to be tickets. He passes them on to his Ghoul and vaguely says, "She's expecting you. As is he. I've already told them about your arrival- they'll let you in."
Cassandra's jaw drops when she glances at the tickets. Joy, surprise, confusion, disbelief, and many other emotions wash over her.
She stammers, "You--you got a Nicola Green concert ticket?! But--but how? And how is this connected to what I--I 'ave to do tonight???" Questions swirl inside her head, refusing to disappear.
Gregory breaks into a feeble grin, "You'll find out for yourself. As always, remember that I have fully authorized you to act, speak, and negotiate on my behalf. You shan't have any issues when dealing with them but be on your guard all the same."
"Who should I ask for?"
"Melvin. He and I go way back."
Cassandra ponders, "Hmm, ahhh, OK, got it. And I'll still 'ave time for the whole concert, yeah?"
Gregory equably responds, "I suppose you will. For the most part. And...I am sorry for not telling you sooner."
Her brows knit together, "Telling me what sooner?"
He quickly averts his gaze, "No. N--never mind. Just know that it was nothing personal or malicious from my end. If you leave now, you could perhaps get to meet with Nicola before the show begins."
Cassandra's eyes light up, but she still fixes a suspicious glare upon her Domitor, "OK, seriously, what are you on about?"
Gregory looks at his watch, "I should go and feed. Goodbye, Cassandra. We'll meet again once you've completed the task at hand. Be...careful. And try not to get too excited."
Without further ado, he abruptly stands up and holds the front door open for her. The Ghoul faintly smiles and tries to make eye contact, but her Domitor has no interest in maintaining it.
She feebly asks, "You're not coming with? It's Nicola Green, she has this way of uplifting people. Surely, you'd feel the same and want to come along...?"
"Goodbye, Cassandra. Enjoy yourself tonight...but be on alert."
Cassandra stiffly nods as she walks out. Her eyebrows shoot up and her cheeks puff out when she sharply exhales. Her eyebrows furrow in irritation.
While getting in the Lexus, she asks herself, "Why's he being so secretive and vague like, yeah? Is he worried about something, someone? But what, who? Ah, I still got time. I need to go somewhere else before I--I go there..."
She hesitates while inserting the key into the ignition, "I don't get it...what's gotten into him? I mean, I know that he's always been like this and all, but THIS is something else, innit? What's gotten into him?"
Little did she know. Little could Cassie be permitted to know.
For now, another batch of questions trouble the Ghoul, so she decides to stop by Alain's villa, hoping to get some answers. The rotund butler is taken aback by her sudden appearance, but she reassures the man that she has no ulterior motives.
"Just a quick chat, yeah? Please, I 'ave to see him. He's in, yeah? He's here and--and not there?"
The butler stifles a groan and tells her to head upstairs, same place as last time.
She flashes him a beaming smile as the butler stands aside, hands clasped against his back.
Alain swivels his chair around and greets her with a weary grin, "You are the most unpredictable and inconsistent person I've ever encountered. I'd have thought that you'd go to the flats, but oh no, you came here instead. Why?"
Cassandra leans against the door, "Because I can and because I wanted to. I 'ave a question."
"I live to answer those. But make it quick. My Hunger is already mocking me, and I refuse to let it consume me."
Cass pointedly asks, "How did you move from your villa to the flats so fast?"
The Tragedian answers, "First of all, the Havens are quite far apart from each other- this was a conscious choice on my part. Besides, I need time to not only change costumes but also get into character, too. As for the how, well..."
He deviously smirks and lowers his voice, "Catacombs that lead from this villa to the flats."
Cassandra side-eyes him and frowns.
Alain can't help but chuckle, "Oh, the look on your face is priceless! Precisely the sort of thing I live for! You know, with the right training, you'd make a fantastic actress. Not as good as me, of course, but still..."
The Ghoul then queries, "Once your secret's out, what are you going to do with Allain?"
"Oh, him? Well, my twin brother fell for the premature effects of the Beckoning and got...carried away. I suppose I can pull an exotic location out of thin air come up with a supporting explanation, maybe throw a tragic anecdote- or 2- in the mix for dramatic effect and...yes, that would work."
Cassandra points out, "Only Elders experience the Beckoning. And you're not an Elder."
"Bah! Humbug! You're no fun, you know that? Leave the creative license and taking of liberties to the professionals, hmm?"
A mischievous grin blooms across the vampire's face. Cassandra shrugs, says goodbye, and walks out.
The night sky is obscured by clouds. It's raining, it's pouring. The twinkling lights of the surrounding buildings flicker as the wind blows. Traffic is a lot worse this time around. Lots of motorbikes and scooters mixed in with the cars and big red buses.
Cass blows a raspberry and shoots Amy a text: "Won't guess what I got."
Amy's response is almost immediate: "Oh. do tell, babes. Don't leave me hanging here."
Cassandra smiles widely: "Nicola Green concert ticket AND a meet 'n' greet after the show! EEEEEEE! So excited."
Amy replies: "Well, lucky you."
"U be there 2nite? Maybe we could sneak off and...yknow?"
"I wish. She managed to snag 2x tickets for us, so I strongly doubt that we'd be able to see each other. Best keep our distance 2nite, eh?"
Cassandra pouts: "Aww. Can't u just excuse urself and meet me in a nice corner?"
Amy sighs and responds: "That's not a good idea. We had another row lately- tickets were her way of patching things up. Listen, i don't want 2 talk about it, so just plz dont put me in an uncomfortable spot, yeah?"
Cassandra frowns and types back: ":-( can I at least wave at ya, if i c u?"
"Fine. But no more than that. And don't approach us, either. Deal?"
";-) deal! So excited 2 see Nicola Green in person! 1st time ever!!!!"
Amy responds: "I'm sure it'll be magical. XOXO."
Cass responds with a kissing face emoji. She puts her mobile phone away, grips the steering wheel, and cranes her neck upwards. The rain intensifies. A flash of lightning momentarily brightens the cloudy skies.
"Cor blimey, I hope that this doesn't affect the concert..."
Tonight's Nicola Green concert shall be taking place at the Prism Stadium. It's a behemoth of a modern structure- all reflective glass and bizarre geometrical shapes- that looms over its surroundings. Sleek architecture, ease-of-access, and well-maintained roads and parking lots add to the overall aesthetic of the area.
Soho Starlet loves the crowds, and they usually love her in return!
Much to Cassandra's sheer amazement, there's a huge line that has already formed in front of the stadium. Multiple chattering voices weave together and form a buzzing cacophony. She parks her car, gets out, and timidly joins the crowd.
Most of the attendees are her perceived mortal age, although there are plenty of teenagers and even a few pensioners scattered throughout. A couple uni-going types huddle closer together.
While waiting in the crowd, a call comes in through her phone. Uknown number. Cassandra's brows knit together when she brings the phone close to her ear.
"Yeah?"
"It's me," the familiar voice of a familiar man grunts, "Don't say me name. Just think about it, yeah?"
Cassandra thinks to herself, "Horace? Horace Grimley?"
The Malkavian Fledgling smiles a little, "Listen, be careful tonight. OK? When he tells you to cover your ears and duck, you do just that? OK? Please, take care tonight. Promise me? Things are...getting complicated. OK?" He sounds deeply afraid.
Cass is confused by the cryptic message and asks, "What?"
Horace abruptly hangs up without saying another word.
Cassandra clicks her tongue out of frustration and shakes her head, "I should meet up with him sometime and try to get to the bottom of why he's acting so bleedin' odd."
A man with spiky blonde hair has a wireless microphone in his hand. The line of people ceases their chattering and gives him their attention when he taps on his mic a few times, "Good evening, Gloughchester!"
The crowd eagerly responds, "GOOD EVENING!"
"C'MON, you lot can do better than that! I SAID GOOD EVENING, GLOUGHCHESTER! Who's excited for Nicola Green?"
The crowd goes wild. People whoop and cheer. Even Cassandra earnestly joins in on the spontaneous celebration. The noise is deafening and she is loving every single second of it.
Blondie smirks and prompts the crowd, "C'mon, you lot! You can do better than that!"
Someone screams out, "WE LOVE YOU, NICOLA!"
Another lad hollers, "Where is Nicola?"
Blondie chuckles heartily, "Without further ado...Soho Starlet! Nicola Green!"
The crowd goes wilder. The thunder and the rain are drowned out by the deafening roar of the audience. Venue security stands up straighter and ensure that the barriers remain intact.
Nicola Green herself steps out of merrily waves at the audience.
She is dressed in a glittery blue dress with knee-high boots. Nicola is in her 20s, has fair skin, a lithe figure, bright blue eyes, and dark black hair is tied into double buns. Her lips are coated in glossy pink lipstick, and her eyelids have a thick application of mascara.
Some glittery makeup accents her facial features, mainly her high cheekbones.
She smiles widely and waves in a friendly manner to the legions of her adoring fans.
Cassandra squeals and jumps up and down, taking the hands of the lady standing next to her and going wild with excitement. They squeal some more while jumping up and down together. Other concertgoers follow their example.
Before the concert begins, Cass takes a moment to look through the papers that Gregory handed her earlier. Thankfully, she's under a roof, otherwise, the stuff would have gotten drenched.
She beams widely when she notices that she's been granted a backstage pass. Cass is dying of curiosity and badly wants to find out what that favor was about.
And more importantly, who it's owed to.
Much farther back in the line, 2 individuals with malicious intent wait. They both look to be in their late-30s.
The man is tall, muscular, and has his dark hair cropped short. He's wearing a thick trenchcoat, khakis, and heavy military-style boots. His nose is crooked and looks like it was once broken.
The woman next to him sports a similar outfit, but with jeans instead. Her pale skin has a few scars on it, her short black hair is greasy, and her brown eyes are a tad bloodshot. Her expression is sour and foul. Her mouth is a thin slash across her face.
The man nudges the woman with his elbow, "Fuckers just went wild. Couldn't hear myself think. Pfft. So, you got the brief, eh?"
The woman sniffs, "Straight from the Captain himself. She's not a blank body, so the task is simpler. Pop her skull, neutralize any witnesses, and extract."
She looks at Nicola, who blows a few kisses to the adoring fans before being escorted away. The man tries to conceal his contempt, but his clenched jaw gives away his true intentions.
The woman shakes her head, "Can't imagine how these sheep will react tomorrow. Eh, Bob?"
Bob shrugs and callously states, "Knowing fans of pop stars, I wouldn't be surprised if some of them killed themselves- overdoses, jumping off buildings or into oncoming trains...anything. Fans. What a pitiful bunch of idiots, if you ask me. Barbara, right?"
She scoffs at him, "You were MI5, weren't you?"
Bob nods and smiles a little, "Top dog. I read your file, too. MI6, eh? Stationed overseas in shithole countries for years, eh?"
Barbara smirks deviously, "I saved British lives more than once. While you were chugging a pint or 2 in the pub, I was covered in sweat, shit, and sand, wrestling an uncooperative prisoner and extracting vital information out of him."
"And I was reading through the text messages of loony lefties. We'll exchange war stories at the pub afterwards, eh?"
The lines progress. Tickets are scanned, IDs are checked, stickers are applied. As they move into the main area, which is packed with people, the 2 Inquisitors stay close to each other.
They're here for a purpose. Bob was recruited into Branch 16 after his stint at the MI5 came to an end. As for Barbara, her methods were deemed far too excessive (even by the standards of the British national security-intelligence apparatus!) and so she was given another shot at things by the B16 apparatus.
He spied on people and ran roughshod all over privacy, democratic rights, civil liberties, and everything else that he chose to conveniently ignore.
She took a sadistic (almost gleeful) delight in torturing dark-skinned people in countries she had no fucking business being in. Just to extract whatever she wanted to hear in order to justify further atrocities in the name of Queen and Country.
Scum, by and large, but scum useful to the Org that they now willingly serve.
The interior of the Prism Stadium is vast. And full of people. Lights are somewhat dim, it's fully covered, and the atmosphere is decently pleasant. Excited whispers fill the air as the venue slowly crawls towards its maximum capacity.
Barbara and Bob squeeze their way past a bunch of enthusiastic teenagers. They've pushed their way to a more decent vantage point. But they both decide that popping their target would be rather difficult with this many bodies and voices in the way.
So, they'll do it after the show ends. For now, the criminal duo indifferently bides their time. Bob yawns and scratches his chin. Barbara sips on a large cup of soda and keeps her eyes and ears peeled.
After half an hour or so, the house lights begin dimming.
Cassandra is somewhere near the front. She's snagged some Nicola Green merch and currently has a bag full of it near her. A large number of people have finished using the washrooms and are now eagerly waiting in their seats.
Up on the stage, a Blondie pops onto the scene. He always makes the necessary introductions. His voice reverberates and echoes when he asks the people, "WHO IS READY? IS GLOUGHCHESTER READY?"
"YEEEEEEEEEEEAAAAAAAHHHHH!! WOOOOOOOOOOO!"
Cass jumps up and down, smiling as she swings her fist in the air.
The blonde lad shouts out, "WELL, COME ON, THEN! Let's hear it for Soho Starlet! Nicola Green!"
Nicola comes marching out, her hips swaying from side to side and her arms extended. She's followed by a slew of dancers- a group of flexible people dressed in sequins outfits and glitter on their faces.
The music starts playing, the lights switch colors, and the show begins in earnest! Cassandra whoops and cheers enthusiastically, banging her head to the fast-paced beats and occasionally dancing around, not too bothered by who sees her or not.
Bob and Barbara, on the other hand, sit like grumpy bumps on a log. Their mouths are downturned and their arms are folded. They scan the sea of people, looking for anything that stands out in terms of potential vampiric activity.
Nicola sings many of her familiar tunes, which Cassandra has listened to countless times. She exudes charisma and magnetism- and this is precisely the reason why Cassandra has bought nearly all of her albums.
And merch.
Ms. Green's song lyrics are filled to the brim with earnest yearning, lovey-dovey type stuff, passion, and sensual longing. There's the occasional song or 2 about loneliness, too.
The Ghoul loves it all, every single beat, every single lyric. Every single line, down to the syllable.
Nicola seamlessly transitions to 1 of her singles that was released the previous year. The dancers move like water, keeping up with the music and giving the pop star a wide berth.
Cassandra shakes her head around, her hair whipping everywhere and her hips swinging from side to side. She's having the time of her life!
After taking a short breather, Nicola spreads her arms as wide as she can and smiles. She's sweating buckets, but she doesn't let that deter her or slow her down in any fashion.
She clears her throat and comes to the edge of the stage where she kneels down, "I want to dedicate my next song to my LGBT+ fans. Know that you are loved, you are accepted, you are needed, and you are wanted..."
Cassandra puts her hands on her chest and tears up a bit.
Nicola does a wide, encompassing gesture and continues, "I am honored and humbled to have your continued support. And to ALL the young people here tonight, to those who were a tad lost in their youth, those who are so full of energy and bursting with ideas, ready to take on any challenge or--or hurdle, I say, keep following your dreams!"
The audience erupts into cheers and applause.
Once the cheers die down, Nicola resumes, "Don't give them up at the first sign of hardship or adversity. Don't give up when the going gets tough, when you're beat up and bruised by life. Do what you can, rely on your mates, and keep pressing on, yeah?"
"WHOOOOOOOO!"
Nicola stands back up, wipes the sweat off her brow, and announces, "Thank you, I love you all. All of you. Your support means the absolute world to me- it really does! And don't forget to get your free Soho Starlet bracelets on the way out! I made a few of them myself!"
She winks and twirls her fingers.
As if on cue, the dancers move about and make their exits. The music slowly fades out, then dies. The crowd looks in anticipation as the lights go out and the silence becomes deafening.
Cassandra sits down in her seat and eagerly awaits the grand finale.
A single beam of light shines down on the center of the stage, bathing Nicola in a bright spotlight. She takes a deep breath and adjusts her stance. She seems to look straight at Cassandra.
The Ghoul gulps and finds herself staring right back with eyes widened to an alarming degree.
Nicola gives the audience a 1-over and grins in a cheeky sort of way. She bites her lower lip, takes a few deep breaths, and begins strutting towards the front of the stage.
The spotlight stays with her, making her the sole focus of attention.
Bob nudges Barbara with his elbow and whispers, "Should've brought a sniper rifle...we'd have been done by now."
Barbara darkly chuckles, "The chaos alone would cause a stampede; it would be...messy. Too messy, for my liking, anyway. Use your head, ya buffoon."
Bob snorts, "Hrrrf. Fine. But my ears are not recovering from that shite singing. I think that alone warrants what we're about to do. Make sure you got those backstage passes ready. And check your suppressor. Don't need folks to overhear and needlessly panic."
"And you check YOUR silencer. Now, let's just endure this. Besides, I've endured far worse than a young girl screeching for hours on end."
Bob grunts a bit, nods, and looks to the stage with an impatient scowl on his face.
After the finale...
Cassandra is awestruck and a little dazed. She blinks a few times, gets her breathing back under control, and adjusts her hair.
Her train of thought is derailed when her phone buzzes. Junk call. She grunts and ends the call, jabbing her thumb into the red button. It's time for the Ghoul to meet her fave, so she makes a dash for it.
She shows the relevant stuff to the bulky guards. After they check her ID, they lift up the rope and let her pass through. Her heart is hammering inside her chest, and her nerves are utterly fried.
With every single step that she takes, a million thoughts run through her mind. Cassandra is terribly nervous and very much afraid, but she tries her best to swallow those feelings and remain composed.
It's almost 11 PM. A few fans (who've also received the privilege of a meet-and-greet) are milling about the place, snapping selfies with stuck-out tongues and peace signs. Others are talking amongst themselves, giggling and gushing, clearly having fun.
Security is fairly lax- just the occasional pat-down and bags getting scanned. And a few IDs get checked, too.
Cassandra stands in front of a closed double door, her knuckles hovering a few inches away from it. After a second or 2 pass by, she raps on the wood and politely says, "Hello? Nicola? Y--you in there?"
"Enter!" a cheerily chirpy voice exclaims.
Cass gulps again and swallows the lump in her throat. She pushes the doors open and enters the room.
She's standing in the middle of a room painted a calming shade of blue. Tube lights in the corners cast a soft glow that fills the entire area. It's even colder in here- not surprising, considering it's air-conditioned. The floors are tiled and off-white.
Pamphlets and posters depicting past Nicola Green concerts lay scattered all over a circular table in the center. Along with a few pizza boxes, empty 2-liter bottles of soda, crumpled napkins, and used paper cups.
Nicola wipes her mouth with a napkin and gets up to greet the Ghoul.
Cassandra leaps forward and squeals with excitement. Nicola nearly falls over when she is swiftly embraced by her superfan. She hugs back, smiling graciously and leaning into the tight hug.
Nicola pulls back and chuckles, "It's so good to finally meet you. Gregory speaks highly of you--"
Cassandra's expression shifts from excitement to confusion, "Wha--how??"
Nicola smiles and invites the Toreador Ghoul to join her at the table.
"He always did mention how big of a fan you are."
Cass is genuinely shocked and mutters, "But--but how...?"
An older man with dark, ashy skin, frizzy gray hair, and blackheads all over his face makes his appearance by poking his head into the room. He's dressed in a plain checkered shirt that does a poor job of hiding his pot belly.
He calmly enters the room and stands right beside the pop star, "Ah, he sent his Ghoul in his place. Why am I not shocked." His voice is hoarse and raw.
Now, Cassandra is genuinely aghast and taken aback. Her jaw goes slack.
The man regards her with his baggy brown eyes and says, "And I take it that you are unaware of...who she truly is? Ah, shit. Why does he do this to us? Look at me. Cassandra, yes? We both know who you are. Do you have any idea who WE are?"
Cassandra wordlessly shakes her head and looks at Nicola for some sort of explanation. The pop star holds her gaze, exhales, and gestures for the man to continue.
He places his cold hand on Nicola's shoulder and introduces himself, "My name is Melvin Green. I am a Son of Discord, a small part of the Daughters of Cacophony Bloodline. Nicola...well...she's..." He hesitates to reveal her true identity.
Nicola's smile momentarily falters. Even she's quite hesitant about coming clean and admitting the truth.
She blinks a few times and looks up at him with a wan smile, "It's OK. We can tell her. After all, she's Gregory's Ghoul. She's a friend, isn't she? Someone we can trust?"
Melvin's grip on her shoulder tightens a bit. He concedes with a light nod, "That is yet to be determined. Nicola is...my granddaughter. And she is also my Ghoul."
Cassandra's eyes widen. The world around her goes silent. Everything fades out. Time slows. Her hearing is muffled, and her vision becomes blurry.
Nicola springs up and takes both of Cassandra's hands in her own. She cautiously kneels down in front of the reeling Toreador Ghoul and encouragingly says, "Hey. It's alright, darling. It's alright."
Tears flow freely from Cassandra's eyes, and she sobs a little. Nicola gently wipes them out and coos, "Don't cry, luv. Shhhh. It's alright. Everything will be fine."
Melvin folds his arms and sighs, "I'm surprised that he kept this from you for so long. Whenever we dealt with him, he always told us what a big fan you were. Considering the circumstances, he might've had his reasons. But still..."
Nicola gives her Domitor a stern look and then turns her attention back to the sobbing superfan.
She cups Cassandra's cheeks in her hands and warmly smiles, "I'm going to quickly change. After that, we have much to discuss. Grandpapa will be with us."
With a kind, genuine smile, she adds, "We're friends, and right now, we need your help."
Melvin murmurs, "I hate it when you call me that. Hmph. Never mind. Yes, go and change. I'll see to this one's state."
Nicola stands up, fixes Cass with a beaming smile, and cheerily says, "Won't be too long!"
Melvin sits across her and watches as Cassandra sniffles and wipes the snot off her nose. He speaks in a measured (albeit dull) fashion, his tone gentle and reassuring, "I'm sure he had his reasons. Be that as it may, he still owes us. Is he here with you?"
Cassandra sniffles some more and responds, "He--he authorized me to...to act, sp--speak, and negotiate on--on--on his behalf."
"Did he, now? I suppose that you have more questions than you care to admit. Yes, ask away. Get whatever that is out of your system."
"H--how long has she been a Ghoul for?"
"My granddaughter is little over a century old. I have been secretly managing her musical career from behind the scenes for these past few years. That's how we met Gregory. It was...somewhere in Brixton, if I'm not mistaken."
Cassandra takes some time to process that, "Blimey! And--and you're her Domitor?"
"Yes. My own Sire was a Siren who, unfortunately, perished many years back. Owing to circumstances outside my control, I lost the 1 thing that sets us apart from the rest of the Cainites: my voice. It was quite something in its time, but all that is history."
"Oh."
The Baritone shakes his head, "Now, it's all so bloody hoarse and unpleasantly rasped. But my...granddaughter..." He trails off and notices her coming back into the room, now dressed in an unremarkable pink tracksuit.
Nicola smiles brightly and stands next to her immortal grandfather, placing a hand on his shoulder.
Melvin puts his cold hand atop hers and taps it a few times, more so out of habit than anything else. Cassandra stares at them with her eyes as wide as saucers.
He explains, "I was just telling your adoring fan our story."
Nicola chuckles, "Oh. Well, go on. You were always better at this than I was. These past couple of weeks 'ave been so bloody stressful and tiring. Mind if I throw me legs up on the table?"
Melvin shrugs, "We're paying through our noses for it, so why not? Go on, do what you please."
He goes on, "Initially, I wanted to Embrace her, turn her into a proper Daughter of Cacophony. However, it dawned on me that--that her talent is...it's once in a millennium! So, I made the next best decision to not only preserve that for generations to come but also ensure her protection and security. And that is why I Bound her to me."
Nicola does as he allows her and reclines, tossing her feet up onto the table, her trainers sliding across the surface. She relaxes and appears relieved, like a huge burden has been lifted off her shoulders.
Cassandra asks the most obvious question, "But--but won't people find out? Have--have people ever found out?"
Nicola chuckles and looks at her grandfather, who lets out a wry snort.
He answers, "If they haven't, it's simply because we've been careful. So far. Should I tell her, or do you wish to?"
Nicola happily shrugs and responds, "You do it!"
The Son of Discord rubs his face, "She used to be quite big in the...1950s, even. Nicole Green was her name back then. And it was mostly insular and confined to...performances in smoke-ridden lounges, clubs, and other such establishments. Unlike these nights, where she is practically a global phenomenon. More people know her, and thus, her safety is a constant worry for us."
Cass mutters, "Yeah, I can imagine. How did you manage to keep a low profile for all these years?"
Melvin explains, "'Nicole Green' faded away and was soon forgotten as the few fans she did have either perished, moved on, or simply forgot about her. By the time the early 2000s came around, the era of 'Nicola Green' would soon be underway."
Cass nods in understanding and gets up, "I still can't believe I'm sitting in the same room as her. Cor blimey! It's all so surreal! And she's a Ghoul, just like I am! Well, I mean, not exactly-exactly, but you know what I'm saying, yeah?"
Nicola plainly nods, "I know, I know. Grandpapa, do you wish to keep telling her?"
Melvin curtly says, "And the rest is history. I've done my best to sow bits and pieces of information that may or may not be true or false all across the vast reaches of the Internet. You'd think it'd be easy, but the things that some of my granddaughter's fans would believe..."
Nicole chimes in, "And the things they write about me! Well, I'm not talking about that nasty tabloid shit- fuck 'em all. I'm talking about all those fan sites! Hahahahaha! I get meself a good laugh after reading their posts and looking at their fan art. I am such an icon to some of them!"
Cassandra sits herself back down and sharply exhales, "Wow. I've always been a fan ever since I--I first saw you on some telly in some pub. Yeah. You were singing...and people were clapping and dancing. And I was, for some reason, gravitated towards your music and your charisma."
Melvin leans in closer and asks, "You don't write unpleasant things about my granddaughter, do you? You're not that obsessive, compulsive type of 'fan', are you?"
Cassandra vehemently denies it, "Oh, no, no! Not at all! I'm just a normal, regular, working-class lass who loves Nicola's music and supports her. And I absolutely adore her for who she is."
Melvin shrugs, "We'll see about that. I don't want her developing a cult-like following. Enough of that in our world already. Blasted Swifties. I sure as hell am not having Greenies running about like headless chickens."
Nicola laughs along, "Oh, yes. Taylor Swift's fans are quite delirious. But don't catch me saying something like THAT out in public."
Melvin agrees with a grunt, "Yes. We'd be flooded with death threats. It's bad enough when those insects at the fucking EDL harass my granddaughter and her fans. Some of them have even shown up at past concerts to yell slurs and obscenities at us."
His expression darkens, "But in the end, many of them made quite a good meal, if I do say so myself. The Beast within, after all, is ravenous. Fans, critics, haters, or otherwise- no difference to me."
Cassandra doesn't blink or react to that in any way.
Nicola's eyebrows shoot up and she changes the subject to their original purpose, "Now, then. The real reason why we called you here. Grandpapa, can I?"
Melvin waves his hand, "I was getting to that. But sure, go ahead. Y--you're not tired? How is your throat? Are you adequately hydrated? Your medicines--"
Nicola rolls her eyes, "Oh, please. Not in front of her! As much as I sincerely appreciate your doting on me, let me have this moment to--to engage with a fan of mine. Please?"
Melvin folds his hands and calmly replies, "Of course, of course. But make it quick. She came here with a purpose, did she not? So, let's hear her out and deal with her accordingly."
Greg's Ghoul wishes to get something out of the way, so she bluntly asks, "Did you ever use Disciplines when making yo--your music or performing live? Especially Melpominee. I--I know quite a bit about the Sirens. And I know that Ghouls ARE capable of using Disciplines."
Nicola thoughtfully answers, "No. No Disciplines at all. Much to my...grandfather's chagrin."
Melvin mumbles, "Tch. Others do it- Ghoul and Kindred alike. I don't see why we have to shy away from it. Sorry, sorry. Yes, Nicola, please continue."
She does on with a tight smile, "Of course. It--it keeps me authentic and honest. And it was a decision which I myself had made early on, even when I still went by the name of Nicole Green."
Cassandra smiles back, "So--so, wait...how are you still in London? You're still living there? Even after the Garou came in and--and--"
Nicola looks at her Domitor, who dryly answers, "It's very scary with those werewolves running around, but we, somehow, manage to maintain a low profile. But we're on tour, now. Nicola..."
Melvin's granddaughter puts in, "That's right. After Gloughchester, I--we plan on going to Dublin, Ireland. Err, after that--"
The Baritone interjects, "It's need to know and you, Cassandra, don't really need to know. We both like our mystery very much- as do the fans."
Nicola sighs deeply, "Grandpapa, please..."
Cassandra thinks of what to say next and blurts out, "I--I'm still reeling the fact that my fave is a--a Ghoul!"
Nicola grins, "Forever 23. Between me and you, that's actually going to be the name of my next album." She winks and reminds, "But, again, that's between you and me, eh?"
Cassandra pull out a small Kodak digicam. It's yellow in color and fits in the palm of her hand. She holds it up, "Melvin, would you mind...err..."
The vampire gets up and grabs it from her, "Of course, of course. Huddle up, you 2. Make all the funny faces you want. You have no idea how many times I do this on any given night."
Nicola and Cassandra get up and pose for the photo. Melvin holds the camera up, turns on the flash, lifts his chin, narrows his eyes, and takes a picture.
Ms. Green pulls Cass closer and flashes a peace sign with her free hand. The Ghoul smiles widely, blushing a little. Flash! Snap!
Cassandra sticks out her tongue and Nicola follows suit. They laugh and make faces. Melvin stifles a chuckle as he steadily snaps yet another picture.
He hands it back to Cass after a few more pics and throws himself back on the couch, "Hmph. There you go. Now, back to business, I suppose. Curious- but not entirely surprising- that your Domitor would send you in his place for such a weighty matter."
Nicola crosses her legs and slowly sits down, "Yeah. How is Gregory doing, anyway?"
Cassandra narrows her eyes and asks her favorite pop star, "So, when he got that signed album for me birthday, that was--"
Nicola softly smiles, "It certainly was, love. It most certainly was. Yes, I personally signed it for you."
Melvin harshly clears his throat, "Mm-hmm. Now, if you 2 don't mind, but could we move things along? Both me and my granddaughter came to your Domitor in the hopes of reaching an...amicable arrangement."
He leans forward and looks into Cassandra's hazel eyes before resuming, "There is some artwork in our possession- family heirlooms, that sort of sentimental rubbish- which may very well fetch a high price should the right collector or curator come across them. And I'm certain that Gregory knows some people who would be interested in those."
Nicola, for her part, isn't wholly enthusiastic about parting with that stuff, but she defers to her grandpapa. He's quite protective of her and insists on keeping her safe, no matter what.
Protectiveness that, judging by his facial expression and tone of voice, tends (more often than not) to border on possessiveness and overbearingness.
Melvin insists, "I want the best possible price, NOT second-best. Nicola needs the money if...she's going to go underground for decades on end. And merch sales aren't covering all the required expenses."
He shakes his head and bitterly adds, "Paperwork, legalities, things like that."
Cassandra's heart skips a beat as she fears for the worst, "Wh--what? She's...disappearing?"
Nicola lets out a sad sigh, "Unfortunately, I have to. Forever 23 will be my last album before I have to say goodbye...for a long time. It's getting too risky. When--when I re-emerged, I honestly never expected to become THIS bloody famous! It came as a shock to me and grandpapa when PomPoms was blowing up all over the Internet!"
Melvin mumbles, "Yes, it certainly did. We were only expecting a small following, not the whole damn world to take notice of...her. An erroneous miscalculation on my part. Tch. Maybe I should've known better."
Nicola rubs the base of her neck and nervously notes, "I had a very brief stint as a DJ back in the 1990s- grandpapa saw it as a waste of my once-in-a-millennium talent. But hey, we all 'ave our phases."
No comment from the Baritone, just a downturned mouth and an averted gaze. Cassandra gasps in shock and looks between them with her eyes wide and her mouth hanging open.
Melvin clasps his cold hands together and flatly states, "Suffice to say, that won't happen again. Cassandra, please try to understand that the risks are simply far too great- my Nicola cannot keep going on and on until someone exposes her for who she truly is. We're going underground and that's that."
He says the last part while staring at his Ghoul.
Nicola nods along, "Yeah. I've made my peace. Now, you--you see why I don't really do interviews, eh? We've done our best to stay out of the public eye, but the social media age is something else entirely. It's a shame, really, that this'll be me last tour."
Melvin grimly adds, "We've even contemplated faking her death- to increase sympathy and generate sales, if nothing else. But no, she cannot keep doing this till 2020. She must disappear- with my help and assistance, of course. We'll come back when her current fanbase has...faded away or has forgotten about her. That might take several decades."
Nicola snickers, "2050, I reckon. It's a shame, really. I was really looking forward to 2020, but it's...quite a long way off, eh? Well, no sense in crying over what could've been- focus on what has been. All the magical times, eh?"
Cassandra stares straight into Nicola's eyes and sees some of her favorite memories from the past few years, playing out like a montage in a cheesy movie. Fond recollections of buying the new albums, the merch, watching her concerts on telly, screaming her head off, feeling happy, light, and free.
Melvin looks around before saying, "As it is, we're barely breaking even. Believe it or not. As such, we really need your Domitor to pull his socks up and aid us in this time of...need. Every last penny is going into a new ID for my Nicola."
Cassandra utters, "Blimey! Uh...sure, sure, yeah. I'll talk to Greg, get him to push back his other appointments, reschedule his meetings, and we can maybe...try and...help you out. I--I want to help, I really do."
Nicola sincerely says, "We really appreciate that. Like grandpapa said, my...new ID needs to be rock solid. Then we'll be fine. And then we can move on."
She glares at him, "And no, I'm NOT doing plastic surgery."
He shrugs, "I merely suggested it. Everyone else in the industry is doing it. I don't see why we're still the outliers. But I digress. Cassandra, get your Gregory to come through for us- he's already in possession of the relevant details."
Cassandra rubs her hands together and looks at them both, "You bet! So, what else do you need?"
Nicola looks at her nails and wistfully answers, "New wardrobe. New start. New everything. I'm even going to have to find a job- can't really do much of the pop star thing once I...'disappear' or 'die' or whatever it is that we ultimately decide to do."
She sighs and goes on, "I was thinking retail this time around. Last century, I was a waitress; that's how I not only kept afloat but also didn't go mental by sitting about and twiddling my thumbs for all eternity."
Melvin clicks his tongue, "You were honing your skills and giving your vocal cords a much-needed rest. There's no shame in that. Furthermore, we both had to keep up with the musical trends, see in which direction the wind was blowing. All so we could know what would end up having the most impact- pop it ultimately was. So, again, Cassandra, please get your Domitor to help us."
Cassandra just stares at them, rubbing her cheeks and processing everything she's heard tonight.
Nicola leans forward and rests her elbows on her knees, her expression grim and downcast, "I'm going to miss...all of this. Not the stardom aspects, mind you. But...the singing, the music, the creative process, interacting with fans, the touring, and seeing the world."
Melvin comments, "We'll have plenty of time for that last one. But not too far."
Cassandra blurts out, "Wow, you really control every aspect of--of her life?"
The other Ghoul answers with a tight smile, "Ah, he doesn't. It's just his way of protecting me, keeping me safe. He means well. There are far worse Cainites out there than him, and I speak from firsthand experience."
Melvin nods, "I won't dignify that with an answer. So, there you have it. Our predicament. And help provided would be greatly appreciated. And buy a few bracelets on your way out, will you? I needn't say why, hmm?"
Nicola beams and cheerfully says, "Doing a pop star's work is VERY hard- very taxing on the...body and mind as a whole. Even if I am a Ghoul, I'm still a human being at the end of the day. And there's all these media vultures circling you constantly, looking for something to criticize and tear you apart for."
Melvin remarks, "Oh, yes. As a matter of fact, our phones were hacked. Those animals at News International will be hearing from our solicitors soon enough. They call our kind leeches and bloodsuckers, but Rupert Murdoch and his empire of perverted bastards are worse than we could ever aspire to be."
(Blud's got a point!)
Nicola backs up what her grandfather is saying, "Oh, yes. My voicemails were hacked! Hacked! Can you believe that! Soon after, we got in touch with solicitors who were connected to this whole News International phone hacking scandal. I want those pigs to rot in prison for what they've done. And not just to me, mind you."
Melvin grumbles, "If the news was anything to go by, then there's not a high chance of that happening. The lack of justice being served in the country we call home...never ceases to 'amaze' me. But if I ever see the likes of Andy Coulson or Rebekah Brooks, Caine help me..." He growls a little.
Nicola points out, "That's why I'm very private about...certain things in my life, Cassandra. I like it that way, if I'm being honest with you. But that hasn't stopped those rags from speculating and making up nasty lies about me. What we do or don't do is none of their bloody business."
Cass nods along, "Yeah. I--I agree; it's absolutely mental, the way those tabloids can drag you through the mud without a care in the world."
Nicola jumps to her feet and exclaims, "Exactly! They call it 'monstering'! Dreadful! Just...dreadful! Anyway, yeah..." She sits back down and adjusts her hair a little.
Melvin promptly rises and rubs his neck, "As I've said, that's all we require at the moment. Gregory helps us get a pretty penny so that my granddaughter's...err...retirement goes as smoothly as possible. Nothing more and nothing less. I do hope that he has something useful for us..."
Cass points out, "He's been acting strange lately."
Melvin harshly chuckles, "No stranger than usual, I'd hope. We need him. So, it's best if he put his priorities straight. Worry not, he already knows of our predicament. We go way back, when I was still known as 'Melville Green' in certain circles. But that's all behind us now. No use wallowing in sentimentality, hmm?"
Nicola theatrically laughs and rolls her eyes, "Right..."
The Baritone informs Cassandra, "You might not know this, but even our Bloodline's Ghouls experience the Fugue, albeit milder than I do."
Nicola confirms that, her expression unusually gloomy, "Yeah. It's always there- that constant melody ringing in the back of me mind. Makes it harder for me to perceive things around me sometimes. And it distracts me when I--I'd rather not be distracted."
She bites her lower lip and sadly mutters, "I'm counting down the days...and nights--"
Melvin firmly interjects, "You will NOT turn into a Banshee. Do you hear me? Not on my watch."
Nicola's smile is sad, "Hmm. I don't know what I'd do without you, grandpapa..." That's not just the Bond of Blood talking.
Melvin furrows his eyebrows and stares at his feet, "It won't come to that. We do our best to take care of each other."
After a few moments of silence, Nicola pipes up and gently asks, "Do you mind if I record something with my superfan? Cassandra, are you up for it, love? Just a small clip for the socials, eh? What say you?"
Cass excitedly responds, "I'm up for it, yeah!"
Nicola eagerly chimes in, "Grand! C'mon, c'mon, closer." She pulls out her Android smartphone. It has a big screen, a front camera, and a sturdy green cover.
She and Cass scoot closer together.
Before Soho Starlet hits the record button, she gently says, "Just a quick clip. You can say whatever you want to say to your fellow fans, OK? And please don't say anything rude or--or unpleasant, yeah?"
Cassandra nods, "I 'ave something in mind, don't worry."
Melvin sternly warns, "Say anything nasty and I'll--"
"Grandpapa!" Nicola clicks her tongue out of annoyance, "She already got the message loud and clear the first time around, didn't she?"
The Toreador Ghoul eagerly answers, "Yep, I sure did!"
Nicola hits the record button and beams joy from ear to ear, her eyes shining with delight, "Soho Starlet here! I just got finished with performing LIVE in Gloughchester. It's been a blast! I'm just in the back, resting and recuperating after such an eventful evening."
She turns her head towards her superfan, "I'm also hanging out with a special fan. Before I bring her on, I just want to thank you all so much for the lovely reception. I was...touched by your messages and--and kind words." Her eyes glisten a little.
Soho Starlet nods and Cassandra's smile grows bigger and bigger as she realizes that she's actually on the recording, standing cheek-to-cheek with her favorite singer.
The words initially fail to escape Cassandra's mouth. She just stands there, her mind racing a kilometer a minute.
Nicola gives her a friendly nudge and speaks up, "This is my good friend- and superfan- Cassandra! And she has something that she wants to share with all of you out there. C'mon, say hi!" She gives the other Ghoul an encouraging smile and nod.
It's a nice feeling. Nicola is a very kind person.
Cassandra waves awkwardly, "Hiya! I...err...I want us to support our NHS, yeah? Uh...yeah, support the NHS in any way that you can. I mean, they're really stretched thin right now and it's not looking so--"
Melvin makes a cutting motion with his hand. Cassandra's voice is barely audible because she's talking in such a soft, mumbly tone.
Nicola quickly takes over, "You heard her! Support our NHS! Send them your love- our love- and kind words. Add a blue heart emoji to your display names on ALL your socials, OK? Show them that we care about them." She winks and throws her thumb up, smiling brightly.
She concludes by looking right into the camera, "Show them that we're here for them just as much as they're here for us. So, thanks again, everybody! Soho Starlet out! And thank you, Gloughchester, for such a magical night! Mwah!"
Nicola blows a kiss to the camera, as does Cassandra. Then the recording stops. The pop star lets out a heavy sigh of relief and leans against the sofa's back.
Cassandra's cheeks puff as she sharply exhales, "Cor blimey! I was nervous! Y--you have a lot of followers on social media! Are--are you sure that they won't make fun of me?"
Nicola answers, "They'll have to go through me first. Don't worry yourself, love, yeah? Besides, you're very charming, if I do say so myself."
Cass can't help but blush a wee bit, "Aww. T--thanks..." She rubs her cheek and nervously chuckles.
Melvin cuts in, "I don't mean to interrupt this tender moment and all, but we do have a rather large schedule ahead of us. Nicola, c'mon, let's go and meet the other fans, hm? Cassandra, ENSURE that your Domitor does not screw us over."
Nicola pouts and looks up at him, "Can't we stay a while longer, grandpapa?"
Melvin sighs, "We need money if we're both going to disappear for decades on end. And the social media age doesn't exactly make that easier- not unless we WANT to become targets for the tabloids and their ilk. We have to do what we must to...recuperate our losses, Nicola. I'll call the car and get it ready for you, so that we can leave as soon as possible."
Nicole's shoulders slump in defeat, "Yes, grandpapa. Oh, well. It was fun while it lasted. At least I got to meet a wonderful, lovely, and amazing woman like you." She gets up and flashes Cass a radiant smile.
"Same 'ere!"
Not that far away, the 2 SI agents prep themselves and get ready to approach the pop star in her room.
Bob smirks and pulls out a small wooden stake from his coat, "Just in case..."
Barbara shakes her head, "The briefing didn't say anything about blank bodies, but better safe than sorry. Ready?" She pulls out her suppressed pistol and holds it at her side. The safety is on.
Bob does the same with his similar-looking gun, "Ready."
The duo kicks the door down. Melvin is caught off-guard and he falls onto his arse when the doors fly open. The agents come bursting in, shoot Melvin twice in the chest and then they aim their pistols at Nicola and Cass.
The 2 ladies gasp and dive for cover. Suppressed pew-pew shots ring out as the agents open fire, forcing the pair to scramble behind the sofa.
Nicola has a look of fear etched onto her face; she's shaking like a leaf, and her eyes are wide open in fright. Cassandra is equally terrified- her eyes are wide open, her mouth is agape, and her body is stiff and trembling. Both of them have no idea what's going on!
Melvin groans while the bullet wounds slowly mend themselves shut. He slowly rolls over and pulls himself upright, his hands clutching his chest, his eyes filled with hate and rage.
He snarls at the goons. Barbara spares a glance at him, but Bob doesn't take his eyes off the 2 women. Her eyes widen a little, but then she looks back at the targets.
Or the intended target, rather.
Melvin heaves himself up, his chest aching as the wounds are still not fully healed. He calls out, "Duck and close your ears!"
Bob stops firing and turns to face the vampire. Barbara shoots at him a few times, but his body doesn't react, even though the bullets hit their mark.
Melvin lets out another snarl and begins to channel some Vitae into his Melpominee Discipline. He loudly calls out, "Death of the Drum! SHATTERING CRESCENDO!"
Nicola gasps and clasps her hands over her ears. Cassandra doesn't quite know what's going on, but she remembers Horace's words echoing through her mind...
"When he tells you to cover your ears and duck, you do just that?"
So, the Toreador Ghoul follows Nicola's example and does the same thing. She even closes her eyes tightly.
The world slows to a crawl as the vampire's supersonic blast fills the room and the bass is so strong and powerful, that the glass shatters, the walls crack, the floor shakes, the ceiling creaks, and the whole room is filled with an overpowering sense of dread and terror.
Both mortal agents drop their weapons and fall to their knees. Blood incessantly pours from their mouths, noses, ears, and eyes.
Melvin screeches louder and louder until Bob is on the floor, writhing. His nerves are burning and his brain is on fire. Barbara has her hands on the sides of her head, kicking and thrashing about, tears flowing freely and screams filling the air.
The Baritone doesn't let up; he keeps channeling more and more Blood into his Melpominee Discipline, his voice growing louder and more powerful with each passing second.
Barbara's head bursts like a fucking grape and her body goes limp, splattering bits of brain matter and gore all over the place. Bob's head explodes in a shower of red, bone, and gray matter, and he flops down, no longer moving.
Both their bodies involuntarily spasm before going completely still.
Melvin collapses, his face drenched with Blood. He gasps for air and pants, his face deathly gray and his body shaking like a leaf. He springs back up and goes to check on the 2 Ghouls.
Both ladies look up at him with gratitude clearly expressed in their faces.
The vampire nods and smiles, but the smile doesn't quite reach his eyes. He turns on his heel, ducks besides the headless thugs, and begins searching through their bodies.
Nicola clutches her bicep and shakily asks, "Who--who were they?"
Melvin mutters something and tears through clothing with his claws. Eventually, he pulls out a wooden stake. His face scrunches in disgust and he drops the weapon.
He turns around and grimly says, "Ill intent. Shit! We need to leave! NOW! Forget about the fans, the photoshoots, the--the everything! WE HAVE TO GET OUT OF HERE!"
Nicola fervently nods and bolts for the exit. Melvin goes after her. Cassandra is frozen in place- she's too stunned to move. She grimaces and gags when she sees the 2 gory messes that were Bob and Barbara.
Melvin turns his head back and snaps, "GET A MOVE ON, CASSANDRA! There may very well be MORE of them!"
Cass grabs her stuff, snags some random things that were lying around, and runs off after the pair, her mind reeling from the fact that someone just tried to kill her fave!
Nicola pants and asks, "Wh--were they here for me, g--grandpapa??"
Melvin mulls over the possibilities in his mind. He grits his teeth and hisses, "Possibly. The concealed wooden stake says more than needs to be said."
Cass catches up to them, "Are they SI?"
Melvin barrels through a door, "Anything's a possibility! This way! Forget about the fans, the media, the--the bloody everything! We're done with all of that!"
The trio rushes down the hall. Some fans and other hangers-on try and stop the group, but Melvin pushes them out of the way. He's about to unleash a Melpominee blast on all of them, but Nicola takes control of the situation.
She steps in front of her grandpapa and musters up a smile. She remains composed when she speaks, even though her voice is shaking, "My apologies, loves. Something...has come up and it requires my...uh...immediate attention. Either way, I absolutely ADORED you lot tonight."
Before she can be bombarded with questions, she sashays away, but not before saying, "And buy yourselves the merch out there, yeah? You won't regret it! And thanks for coming tonight!"
Cassandra awkwardly waves and follows after her fave, leaving behind a confused and disappointed crowd. Clamors and murmurs are all that's left in the group's wake.
Nicola runs fast and loudly calls out, "I made some of those bracelets with me own hands, so please consider buying them to--to show your support!!"
Melvin almost tears open the sedan's door. Cass and Nicola pile into the backseat while grandpapa jumps in the driver's seat.
Nicola quickly buckles herself up, as does Cassandra. Melvin starts the car and harshly shoves the shifter into reverse. The vehicle's tires squeal and the car zooms backwards. He shifts gears and puts his foot down on the gas pedal.
The trio speeds out of the parking lot, tires screeching and horns honking.
Cassandra leans forward and says, "We should inform Sheriff Alice about what happened! If it was Second Inquisition, then--then she ought to know, yeah? Who knows how many agents they 'ave out there!"
Melvin is more interested in getting as far away from the Prism Stadium as fast as possible. He swerves, nearly hits another car, and drives down the road, his fingers digging into the steering wheel.
"Just let me fucking drive! Nicola! Nicola! How--how are you, my darling?!"
Nicola is breathing hard and her heart is racing. Disbelief has taken hold and her mind is still reeling. She just barely manages to respond, "I...fine, yeah. Were--were they there for...me? Why? But I've never hurt anyone in--in my life! Grandpapa--"
Melvin runs a red light and growls, "We don't have all the information right now! Grrr! DAMMIT! Cutting corners on security was--is my fault! SHIT!"
He violently bangs on the car's dashboard, causing cracks to form, but he pays them no heed.
Cassandra recoils and yelps. She opts to comfort the shaken pop singer by rubbing her back and softly saying, "You'll be alright, Nicola. We--you'll get somewhere safe, lay low for a while, sleep it off. Don't worry, you've got...your grandfather. He...he seems nice, yeah."
Nicola nods and rubs her temples.
Melvin looks at the rearview mirror, his dead eyes meeting the bewildered eyes of the lass who is not only his granddaughter but also his Ghoul.
Soho Starlet looks at her Domitor and gives him a shaky, but still encouraging smile, "Th--thanks, grandpapa. For saving us."
"All in a night's work, my darling. Sit back, relax. Like your new friend said: we'll get you someplace safe. Nap if you'd like. I've got this."
Nicola nods, "Right. Right..."
Cassandra chimes in, "Oi! I've got this, too, yeah? Cor blimey, someone tried to blast her tonight? Apart from the usual suspects, who else do you think would not only have a grudge against Nicola but also be able to...err, send professional assassins?"
Melvin slows down near an intersection, "Not many would know of my granddaughter's true identity- we go to great lengths to ensure that nobody does, but...someone with access may very well have put the pieces together. It's impossible to scrub every old picture of her, and there are plenty of those lying around, unfortunately. But you have to know where to look."
Cassandra puts the rest of the puzzle together, "Oh. So, someone somehow managed to...figure out who Nicola...is! Shit! What about you?"
Melvin's chuckle is mirthless, "I do everything in my power to stay OUT of the spotlight, the public eye, the social media realm- all of it! That way, not a soul can connect me to her and try and twist that to their advantage. That, and well...Melville Green still owes outstanding debts to some rather unpleasant people, to put it mildly."
Nicola pipes up, "That's not a name that we should drop so casually, grandpapa...you'll always be Melville to me."
"And you'll always be Nicole to me," the Baritone replies.
Cass offers, "I know how to get in touch with the Sheriff! She'll know what to do. If it's the SI, then--then the best course of action is to warn everyone that they're 'ere! In this city!"
Melvin takes a sharp turn and accedes, "Then by all means, do so. Do you have her number, or do I have to pull over?"
A wee while later...
Sheriff Alice, Melvin, Nicola, and Cassandra are in a safe location- some kind of dark and moldy recreational center with foam mats, gymnastic apparatuses, and the smell of sweat permeating the air.
The Tzimisce Sheriff paces around and gives the 3 of them a stern look, her face hard and uncompromising, "First thing's first: I'm going to need a statement from all of you. And Gregory's Ghoul, hmph, why am I not surprised that you're somehow wrapped up in this mess?"
Melvin remains silent, as does his granddaughter.
Sheriff Alice puts her hands on her hips and regards Soho Starlet, "And who might you be? What's with all that fanciful glitter and jewelry?"
Cassandra clears her throat and incredulously asks, "You don't know who Nicola Green is?! Soho Starlet?"
"Doesn't ring any bells."
"How could you not know who she is?!"
Sheriff Alice stifles a groan, "Listen, Ghoul, there are 7 billion people in this world. Not everyone knows- or cares to know- every single name out there. So, tell me who she is or else..." She pulls her sleek hand canon out and points it at the startled woman.
Cassandra's eyes widen and she frantically raises her hands, "Woah, woah! NO! Wait, didn't Melvin seek the Prince's permission before entering this Domain? How do you not know a bloody thing?!"
Uh-oh.
Melvin winces and lowers his head in shame, refusing to say anything. He keeps his lips firmly shut.
Sheriff Alice cocks her head to the side and glares at the Baritone, "Mel...vin? Melville. Oh. It IS you. Huh. I should've known. You're right, Ghoul, this one didn't seek the Prince's permission before setting foot in the Domain."
The Stoker clicks her tongue and shakes her head from side to side, "Did the Fifth Tradition of The Hospitality elude you or was it a momentary lapse in judgement?"
Melvin sighs, "I...I've been busy with the concert, preparations, coordinating and planning with the city's mortal authorities, security, and everything else under the moon. I--I admit that it's a lapse in judgement on my part."
He adds, "However, in my defense, we were only going to be here for a night. We--"
Sheriff Alice interjects, "I don't care if you were here for only 1 whole minute. But given what...this Ghoul told me over the phone, I'm willing to overlook- but NOT forgive- your transgressions, Melville. Just don't let it happen again, hm?"
She points her big fuck-off gun at him, "Or else, there won't be a next time. You, Gregory's Ghoul. Are you certain that the 2 people who tried to attack this one are part of the Second Inquisition?"
Melvin answers, "The wooden stake and professional...erm...methods speak for themselves."
Sheriff Alice frowns, "That they do. And the bodies?"
Nicola timidly answers, "Rotting away where we left 'em. Grandpapa took us and ran out of there. They're--they're all yours, Miss Sheriff."
The Tzimisce glowers at the other Ghoul, "It's Sheriff Alice to you...Soho Starlet. Wait here. I'm going to go and personally check out Mel--Melville's handiwork. Hmph."
While striding out, the Fiend warns, "Don't touch anything, don't go anywhere. Just in case, I'll have some of my people posted outside, just to be sure."
She turns her head, "Oh, and you 3 better get your stories in order. This is going to be a long night."
Nicola sighs and slumps her shoulders. Melvin gives his granddaughter an awkward and apologetic smile.
Cassandra slides a step closer to the pop star and softly asks, "How are you, Nicola?"
"Shaken, stirred, a little more than worried, really. And scared shitless. That woman...is intense!"
Melvin mumbles, "That's certainly 1 way of putting it. We crossed paths...decades ago. She hasn't changed an iota. Always the one playing by a very strict interpretation of the Camarilla's Traditions. Typical Welsh."
Nicola gives him a weak grin, "Grandpapa, do you know her?"
Melvin sighs and grabs a plastic orange chair from a dusty corner, "Know OF her, more like. We aren't what one would exactly call acquaintances. It's best to leave things there, darling. Cassandra, tell us a bit more about yourself. We may as well pass the time somehow."
Nicola nods and sits on a bench, patting the empty spot besides her. Cass gingerly sits down and takes a deep breath.
"Well, there isn't much to tell, really..."
The rain is pouring outside, and the wind is blowing and howling, the cold autumn winds blowing the fallen leaves around. Sheriff Alice is back in time and she, more or less, confirms what Melvin has said.
Bob and Barbara, the 2 Second Inquisition scumbags are dead, and their heads are gone. Their bodies were still lying there, surrounded by a large pool of blood and gore.
Sheriff Alice's people take the corpses and dispose of them- elaboration not needed. The Sheriff, for her part, took note of their weapons (silenced pistols) and came to the grim conclusion that they aren't your average vampire hunters.
The questioning goes as well as one expects. Sheriff Alice's intense stares and (oft-times) harsh questions are more than a little intimidating, especially to the young pop star.
The Son of Discord explains his intentions here and states, "Cassandra's Domitor is...helping us, Sheriff. He owes us, nothing more. The details of our arrangement do not concern you."
Sheriff Alice shrugs, "Fair enough. But I've confirmed that we now have a looming SI threat in our city- the Prince isn't going to like this, and I'm not going to like dealing with this, not when I already have a Sabbat problem on my plate."
Melvin stays quiet, his throat feeling a tad sore from the head-bursting shouting he did earlier. The echoes of his shrill cry still loop in his mind, as does the distant call of the Fugue.
It's an incessant hum that varies in pitch and volume. It's pretty much a constant now.
He looks at his granddaughter, who's sitting down and shivering a little, and he frowns, "You've got your story straight, my dear? Didn't leave anything out?"
Nicola feebly nods. After a moment, she puts her head on Cassandra's shoulder and dozes off for a few minutes. Cassandra is over the moon- her fave resting on her shoulder, her hair touching her skin!
She has the biggest, dopiest smile on her face and she's trying her best not to move or wiggle around too much.
The questioning goes on for several more minutes, and by the end of it, Sheriff Alice is convinced that Melvin has done nothing wrong. He acted in self-defense and to protect his Ghouled granddaughter, after all.
A possessive, body-modifying, alien vampire like Sheriff Alice can certainly sympathize, but only to a certain extent. Then again, she's hardly in the business of making exceptions, nor does she want to.
Sheriff Alice's face softens and her shoulders slump, "Right. OK, then. I have no further reason to keep you. The sun's coming up. You best hurry along. You do have a place to stay, yes?"
Nicola nods, "Of course we do. Is--is safe, grandpapa?"
Cassandra excitedly pipes up, "Well, you--you can stay with me and Greg! I'm sure that he won't mind!"
(He might, actually, but Cassandra is too caught up in the moment to realize that.)
Sheriff Alice stays the 'ell out of this. She silently gathers her things and heads for the exit, but not without sternly warning, "Don't leave the city until further notice. If you have any plans, cancel them. Tomorrow night, I will need to see all of you. Here. Yes, again. You have my word that this place will be safe and secure as can be."
Melvin huffs a sigh and heads into the sedan. He closes the door, puts on his seatbelt, and turns the engine on. Nicola and Cassandra pile into the backseat and buckle themselves up.
Nicola is exhausted, and the drive to the hotel is silent.
Cassandra's expression falls, "Y--you're not staying with--"
Melvin shakes his head, "I am fairly certain that Gregory wouldn't appreciate guests showing up at the doorstep of his Haven, unannounced, uninvited. Especially not in these trying times. Besides, all our...stuff is at the hotel."
Nicola sleepily murmurs, "Right. I think I'm going to borrow a leaf out of grandpapa's book and sleep the whole day away." She yawns loudly, stretching her arms and legs.
Melvin reassures the Ghoul, "We'll see each other again, worry not. And you look absolutely spent. Can you make it back to your Domitor's residence on your own, or do you require an escort?"
Nicola can't help but snicker.
Melvin winces slightly, "I--I mean, not that kind of an escort. But you do understand, yes? No, no, never mind. Forget what I said."
Cassandra shrugs and answers, "Me Lexus is still parked at the stadium. I'll grab the bus and go home. Greg should be back, so I'll try and inform him about...everything that happened tonight. Don't worry about a thing, Nicola!"
Melvin nods, "Yes, that would be preferrable. Safe journeys, Cassandra. And it was...nice meeting you."
Nicola sleepily waves, "Same, yeah." Another wide yawn escapes her lips.
Cassandra is grinning from ear to ear, "You too! And--and despite what happened, I absolutely had a smashing time! I'll see you tomorrow!"
Melvin bids the Toreador Ghoul farewell, watching her fade away into the distance. The Baritone sighs and looks at his granddaughter with a sympathetic expression.
"Want me to carry you upstairs, darling?"
Nicola chuckles, "I'm sleepy, but not...THAT sleepy, hahaha! Cor blimey, what a night, eh, grandpapa?"
"Indeed. I've never seen this much...hullabaloo in...decades. Remember, what was it, 1951? That jazz club off Oldham Street? And long before that, do you remember the other time when you were just 8 years old? You were a wee slip of a girl, barely coming up to my waist."
Nicola weakly nods and reminisces along with her Domitor. But that was back when he was still her grandpapa. Just her grandpapa, nothing else.
Cassandra gets back to her cozy cottage and flops down on her couch. As ecstatic as she may be, she is utterly spent. She went by her Domitor's Haven and noticed that the lights weren't on inside- that means he's STILL out, doing whatever it is he does at this dark hour.
One hopes that it's finding a potential buyer for the stuff that the Greens want to sell off, or else, the trio are bound to have some very awkward and uneasy conversations.
But right now, all Cassandra can think about is the concert, and her fave. And a question lingers in her mind as the grogginess and the tiredness settle in: how did Horace Grimley know that the SI would make a move tonight?
Did the Malk even know? How much did he know. What was even the nature of his vision? Premonition?
Cassandra has nae a clue in the whole wide world, but she does intend to find out. Besides, it's been a wee while since she last met with Horace and caught up.
Her phone starts buzzing, but Cassandra is too tired to check who it is. She tiredly groans and pulls the covers over herself. Her phone rings and buzzes, and rings and buzzes. Until it ceases.
It's mostly suggestive texts from Amy and a few missed calls from Horace, likely made out of concern for his friend's wellbeing and survival.
But Cassandra's heavy snoring fills the air, her dreams filled with visions of Soho Starlet, but whatever pleasantness there may have been soon vanishes away in a sudden puff of smoke.
Sven barges into the dreamscape, his face looking decidedly fine and unharmed. Cass is, yet again, helplessly frozen in her spot. She sees VERY large eldritch-like tentacles erupt from the ground, whipping around wildly, but their owner (or owners) isn't immediately apparent.
The Baali rockstar sighs a little, "Y'know, they always say...don't meet your idols. But ehh. I'm still here, by the way. You WERE getting a bit too cozy, a bit too comfortable in my absence."
He points finger guns at her and playfully mimics firing them, "And I'm gonna stick around...for a whole lot longer than a while, so get used to it."
The tentacles writhe and coil around themselves, twisting and writhing like a bundle of snakes being zapped by electricity. They make no noise and they do not move towards the helpless Toreador Ghoul, but they do stare at her with their bulbous and wet eyes.
They are as black as night and shiny, too. These tentacles seem to be part of a larger appendage. Cassandra gets an overwhelming feeling that it's some kind of a hand, with these things merely serving as fingers. Or...claws.
But she cannot tell for sure, nor is she in the position to really look, what with Sven being a few paces away from her, grinning wildly. He has his arms crossed, his mouth curled into a smug smile, and his dead eyes are burning with a certain intensity.
A rumbling hiss echoes out from beneath.
Sven shrugs and goes on, "So, you met your favorite pop singer tonight, huh? Saw 2 heads go POP! and even got to spread the love to your...NHS. Wow. All in a night's work for a Ghoul like you, hm? Why the long face, what's the matter?"
He narrows an eye and takes a step closer to her, "Did your fave turn out to be less than what you expected? No, that's not it. Hey, you still owe me for helping you out with that actor guy, but I'll let that one slide for now. You're welcome, by the way."
The...fingers of the big appendage twitch and writhe about, almost like they're trying to grab hold of something or someone.
Sven's own face tics and an uneasy look washes over him, "That's my cue. I got some...hungry, hungry hippos to feed, if you catch my drift. And I gotta keep them well-fed or else, they get restless, hungry, and downright vicious."
He shivers a little, "And I don't need that right now. Goodbye."
The Baali rockstar snaps his fingers. Numerous chittering beings leak out of the ground and begin converging towards Cassandra. They all appear to be a part of the same creature.
Some are as small as racoons whilst others are well over 6 feet tall and hopelessly bent and twisted into a nightmarish shape. Their faces are featureless and their movements are jerky, erratic, and unnerving to behold. White orbs count as their eyes.
Cassandra's blood runs cold and she wakes up with a start, gasping for air and clutching her chest.
The sun is up, parts of its rays streaming through her windows and casting bright streaks on her floor and walls. The Ghoul's Blackberry phone incessantly vibrates and buzzes with notifications.
She groggily reaches out for it. Tons of text messages notifications on social media platforms have piled up, but what immediately catches her attention is almost all of the display names have a blue heart emoji besides them. A bunch of people are Tweeting about Nicola and her superfan Cassandra.
"Oh, shit..." Cassandra rubs the crust from her eyes with the palm of her hand, snorts, and starts checking her phone. She reads the Facebook comments and sees pictures of herself running alongside Nicola.
A comment with about 9000 likes reads: "Lucky lass! Cozying up to Soho Starlet and all!"
Another comment with over a dozen replies reads: "We luv u, Nicola! Never leave us! We luv u!"
Nicola uploaded that little video a wee while ago. The comments range from fans who are excitedly cheering on the pop star and calling her their queen, to others who are concerned about her safety.
There are even a few people asking who the hell Cassandra is.
Cass sharply exhales, sets the phone aside, and goes to the bathroom. After using the loo, she stares at her reflection in the mirror. She notices a few beads of sweat on her forehead and she feels...a bit off. Her heart's still beating really fast, and she can't quite shake that dream out of her head.
After bathing in the tub, Cassandra wraps a towel around her waist and sends Amy a quick text: "Soooo, you might've seen me..."
Amy's response is nearly instantaneous: "Cheeky, lucky minx u are. cant believe u didnt just meet Nicola but did so and got to record something small alongside her." She follows up with a row of smirking emojis.
"Yeah, it was...wild. LOL. Sorry, can't say more. She's so fun, bubbly, and down-to-earth."
"Like u are : )"
Cassandra softly chuckles: "In a way, sorta."
Amy curiously asks: "Is she...?"
"IDK, honestly. didn't really come up in our convos, but she's fairly open-minded, so yeah."
"Would you still...? If given the opportunity to, of course?"
Cass shrugs: "I don't see why not haha! I mean, she's a bloody icon. Who wouldn't wanna at least snog her?! Anyways, we had an interesting time, that's all i can say."
Amy smirks: "oh, i'll find a way to coax it out of u, u cheeky minx. You're famous. Blue heart emojis in everyone's display names, FB profiles, Twitters, Snapchats. Even the kids @ school are talking about it."
"Oh shit, rly?! what r they saying?"
"They probs wouldn't wash their hands if u ever shook it, LOL"
Cass rolls her eyes and laughs: "WOW. And how is...she reacting to all of this? she doesn't know a thing about me, right?"
Amy stares at the ring on her finger and tightens her grip around her phone. She looks out of the window, watching as a few leaves get blown away by the wind.
She sighs a little and types: "she saw the vid as well. Reaction? Indifferent, mostly. better that way imo. we should meet up sometime."
"Yeah, absolutely. just hoping that i can still b able 2 go 2 the pound shop without being mobbed or anything. oh well. l8r!"
Amy sighs faintly: "Yeah, bye. works starting. Walls...still crumbling, slowly but surely. makes u wonder..."
Cassandra's brows knit together: "Wonder what? Talk to me, yeah?"
Amy swallows hard: "if we could get ur new mate to bring attention to this crumbling wall situation @ the school. Look, look, I kno its a lot to ask, but you and I (and the whole world by now) has seen her reach, influence, and popularity."
Cassandra frowns a bit: "yeh. She's got a sway. IF i c her again, i will try and bring it up, but in a way thats organic and not forced. Sound good?"
"It's better than our do-nothing MPs, lol. Thanks. Talk later."
Cassandra nods and puts her phone down. Maybe she'll try and bring up this issue with Soho Starlet.
As for the numerous missed calls from Horace, the Ghoul will only be able to get through to the Malkavian Fledgling when the sun's down. The other missed calls are just some mates from work- it's fairly evident what they want to talk about.
Cassandra opts to stay in, not really wishing to head out anywhere today. She hopes that her few seconds of Internet "fame" will dissipate in a matter of days. But, then again, who knows?
Bob and Barbara failed to report in...
Captain Mark Meadows bites his thumb and mutters, "Not good. Norman, anything?"
The Awakened Mage shakes his head and taps on his tablet, "Nope. No trace of them. It's like they vanished off the face of the Earth."
"C--can you perhaps--"
"Sir, we are Mages. Not divinators. But I could perform a few rituals, put a few...feelers out for your assets. Would that suffice?"
Captain Mark rubs his forehead and sighs, "Yes. It's better than nothing. Do it. Go, now."
Norman sighs and trudges off to a quieter room whose energies have been calibrated in a certain way- there's many of these kinds of "pocket dimension" rooms on the invisible 16th floor of the 15-storied structure.
Captain Mark walks down the brightly lit and spacious hallway. He pulls out his phone, stands ramrod straight, and places a hand on the floor-to-ceiling glass window overlooking the city. He stares at his reflection and sees how much older he's gotten since taking up this position.
While the phone rings, he stares past his reflection and into the city below. A gray, misty gloom pervades the streets, and the Captain can barely make out the figures of people walking and commuting.
The stern woman on the other end of the line sounds rather cross, "Captain Mark Meadows. 2 ground assets reported as MIA, possibly KIA. That's not good."
He shakes his head and responds, "I know, ma'am. I--I don't want to fear the worst, but they haven't checked in till now. It's not like them."
"It was 1 simple...Ghoul. How in heaven's name did they manage to bungle things up so badly? Who knows what kind of operational information may have been compromised by this blunder."
Captain Mark stiffens and rigidly insists, "Ma'am, the integrity of Operation Brightburn is intact. All relevant and necessary precautions were taken to prevent any potential leaks. Our...special friends are also cooperating. As such, we--we have nothing to worry about."
The lady notes, "The stutters in your voice would indicate otherwise, Captain Meadows. But never mind that. Keep squeezing the blank body in your custody- if you need more shipments of blood, inform us and we will provide."
"Of course, ma'am. It's a damned waste, but the chance is--is far too good to pass up on."
"Indeed. And what of your primary contact? Is he still proving himself useful?"
The Captain glances at the city below, the raindrops streaming down the glass window, "I believe so, ma'am. He may be prone to his eccentricities and have odd ideas about certain things, but he's provided us with a necessary and intimate knowledge of the inner workings of blank body circles. Without him, our people wouldn't have been able to achieve such stellar results."
She sharply exhales, "Well, I'm glad that SOMEONE is actually performing his job. And what of Norman? Certain reports indicate that you are behaving quite...oddly around him. What is the matter?"
Captain Mark lowers his voice when people in sharp suits and glasses walk by, "N--nothing's the matter."
The lady grits her teeth, "Captain Meadows..."
He shuffles his feet and sighs, "I have my reasons for...distrusting him. Such power over reality shouldn't be in anyone's hands, especially not in those of someone with his history- he could snap at any moment!"
"And yet, Norman hasn't. If anything, the abuse which he experienced at that boarding school only served to bolster his resolve and make him more...determined. Yes, determined."
(How utterly callous!)
Captain Mark nods along, "I suppose that is 1 way of looking at things, ma'am. But I stand by my reservations. And what about his fellow Mages? Using them could pose a great risk to field operations...and my operatives."
"He offered to assist you, and you turned him down?! How utterly foolish and shortsighted can you get?!"
El Capitano winces at the sheer intensity of her tone and volume, "I--I apologize, ma'am. Such shortsightedness shall not happen again. Of that, I assure you."
"See to it that it doesn't. You have another 24 hours to locate agents Bob and Barbara. After that, Branch 16 will have no other choice but to declare them as KIA. Disavowal shall soon follow. And they will no longer be anyone's problem."
"What do you want me to tell their families?"
"Whatever you must. God save the Queen."
Captain Mark raises his chin and puts all his effort into earnestly repeating, "God save the Queen!"
The line goes dead. The Captain of the Branch 16 operation huffs a harsh sigh and slides his phone back into his pocket. He stares out of the window, watching as the rain intensifies. The cloudy skies above grow darker, and the raindrops hammer down against the ground below.
People, many with umbrellas, walk to and fro, going about their lives, business, and whatever else that they do.
Captain Mark stares at his reflection again, noting how tired he looks. The bags under his eyes are a lot more pronounced than he last remembered.
The Captain's phone starts buzzing and vibrating. He groans when he sees who it is, but answers the call anyway, "I was just talking about you."
The primary contact beams, "Oh really? What a coincidence! Well, what did you say about me? Nice things, I hope. Otherwise, you'll be hearing from my solicitor!"
He sighs, "Yes, yes. I told the woman in charge about your contributions, and she's...grateful. That is all."
The primary contact sighs, "And here I thought you would've said more than that, but oh well. Say, old chap, are you down for a drink? Bottomless mimosas and all-you-can-eat samosas! Sounds good, eh?"
"That rhymed. Hmph. No, I am busy with work."
"Aww, c'mon. What's that they say about Jack, being a dull boy, and no play? By the way, I heard. Nicola Green, a Ghoul. I always found her music catchy, but I never listened to her songs in-depth. But now that I know about her true nature, I'll be paying more attention to her lyrics, maybe there's subtle hints and clues hidden within, you know?"
Captain Mark rubs his forehead and mutters, "If you do find something, please inform me at the soonest."
The primary contact chuckles, "All this for 1 Ghoul? You're missing the forest for the trees. Going after them doesn't quite yield the same results. You should go after their Domitors...and then you'd have real fun on your hands."
Captain Mark mutters, "It worked in Birmingham, until it didn't."
"Shame about how it all ended, but you can't STILL be caught up about that, can you? Besides, peeling the onion's outer layers only gets you so far in. You want to see its core, then you have to...adjust your perspective."
The Captain of the Branch 16 operation narrows his eyes, "I don't follow."
The other man clicks his tongue, "To Kindred, Ghouls are really nothing more than tools. Their Domitors are the real drivers of the car. Not in all cases, mind you, but a significant majority of the time."
"Go on."
The contact delightfully does so, "Ghouls exist to serve and carry out the will of their Domitors. Ignore the agelessness, the blood-lapping, the quasi-superhuman strength and speed, the regenerative abilities, etcetera. Ignore all of that and focus on their core nature as the help- with a few additional steps- and NOT the masters."
Captain Mark mumbles, "The Domitors...but they're not easy to get to. And engaging even 1 of them, often, proves to be problematic for us. As we've seen time and time again."
"Ah, I leave all the shooty-shooty-bang-bang to you people. I am merely a humble consultant on all things immortal, fanged, clawed, and...sanguine. Or do you prefer bloody, hmm?"
Captain Mark incredulously asks, "A consultant? Since when?"
The primary contact inspects his manicured fingernails and casually goes on, "Since now. Consultants get paid more than glorified grasses. Or supergrasses, haha!"
"I do not know if I have the necessary clearance to authorize such a payment raise, but I shall look into it a bit more."
"Then, find someone who does. You'd think that the British government would be awash in money when it came to their secretive military and paramilitary departments. And let's not get started on your cyber-adjacent divisions. Or, whatever they call themselves this week."
"Hmph. What we do is...secretive. Layers and layers of secrecy. An ordinary civilian like you would never understand the complexities and intricacies of--"
"Mimosas and samosas. Your loss, old chap! Ta-ta!"
Click! and the line goes dead. Captain Mark sighs a bit and slides his phone back into his pocket. He blinks, turns around, and goes to attend to more matters of greater import.
The sun soon sets. Darkness overtakes the land. The city is awash in neon lights and other forms of artificial illumination.
Gregory is back at his Haven, but he isn't alone. The dreaded Aapilu is also with him, and it's standing a few feet away from his bed. But its terrifying presence is felt by the Toreador Neonate, all the same.
His cold body ceases shivering for a brief moment, then he resumes trembling, as usual. Movement near a hung-up painting catches his eye, but Gregory doesn't bother looking too closely.
He tries to roll over, but his limbs refuse to obey. The Aapilu tilts its head to the side, and it stares at Gregory through its 5 piercing (and all-too-familiar) eyes.
Gregory swallows hard. The Aapilu remains where its standing. It slowly crouches down and reaches out a hand. Its claws extend, and its many eyes glimmer with an inhuman intensity.
Its 6 fingers open up like a flower in bloom, and it merely beckons to the leaking painting. The painting shakes a bit, then it slowly detaches itself from the wall and floats a few millimeters away from where it had been mounted.
The Toreador Neonate stiffens and starts shaking again. His eyes widen as he watches the floating painting, all of its numerous colors being leached out of it by some unseen force.
The once-vibrant colors of the painting dullen, and what was once a rather pretty and vibrant painting, slowly becomes an eerie and haunting one. Gregory swallows hard again, and he tries to make further movements, but his Unliving body still refuses to obey him.
The Aapilu beckons with its extended claw, and the painting returns to its original position on the wall.
But now, the painting has taken on a wholly different form: it's a portrait of Gregory, but his eyes are as black and soulless as a swirling abyss. There are no pupils in them, and the Neonate's skin appears to be a sickly shade of purple.
Gregory shudders when he sees this. What was once a random painting of some countryside landscape, has now morphed into something far more...sinister.
The Aapilu makes a few clicking noises. Soon after, the painting's colors bleed downwards and pool towards the bottom-half of the canvas. Its fingers ominously twirl around as it continues staring at Gregory.
The Toreador Neonate shivers and tries to turn away. Attempts to look away or do anything are all in vain. His body feels as heavy as lead, and he can't move a bloody muscle!
A gloopy mess of colors now stain the bottom-half of the painting, and the Aapilu's clicking grows louder and more intense. The artwork is soon turned into a twisted and eerie rendition of the original countryside landscape. Ruin and despair pervade the area.
The sky above is pitch-black, and the land below is bathed in darkness, too. Blood rains from the sky, and the once-verdant fields are now barren and dry. Hunks of metal protrude out of certain places, and the trees have all been uprooted.
The nightmarish imagery gets worse. It slowly shimmers and moves on its own, the colors slowly dripping down onto the ground below. Gregory tries to look away, but his eyes are glued to it.
The colors pool together and form a dark red liquid puddle that oozes and expands in size. A few of the drips slide further down the canvas and stain the walls as well.
The creature of the Vitae uses its knuckles to knock on the ground a few times before fully vanishing from sight. Gregory ceases shivering and shaking, and his cold body springs up. He stretches and goes to wash up a bit.
He grimaces at the mess of colors that have formed a small puddle on the ground near the wall. But, oddly enough, the painting seems to be completely unaltered.
Greg squints and gets a closer look. A gasp escapes his lips when he sees that the landscape isn't quite back to normal! A figure- much like the Aapilu- now stands near hill that resembles a slope.
It flickers every now and then, but only when Gregory forces himself to blink. Disbelief etches itself all over his pale face, and he takes a few steps away from the painting. He shakes his head and hobbles to the bathroom.
The Neonate stares at his reflection and notices how bloodshot his eyes are. His skin is a bit paler than it was earlier, and small droplets of precious Blood drip from his nose.
The Artisan furrows his brows and wipes his mouth with a damp hand towel. His is a brief shower. After that, he just stares at the congealed mess of paint that has stained the floor and walls.
Gregory decides to clean it up later. Or get Cassandra to do it. After all, that's what a Ghoul is for, innit? Isn't that what they were meant to do?
After an hour, Gregory is all dressed up, smelling decently nice, and ready to face the night ahead. Much to his surprise, a knock at his door rouses him from his thoughts. He approaches the front door, and a familiar voice greets him, "Gregory? Are you in there."
Melvin is accompanied by Nicola, whose eyes are concealed by a pair of hefty sunglasses. Melvin himself is inconspicuously dressed: jeans, a leather jacket, and a simple shirt.
Cassandra isn't too far behind. She hops, skips, and jumps into Nicola's arms, giving her a nice, tight hug.
"Hiya, you 2!"
Melvin is ushered inside by Gregory. He has an unimpressed look on his face as he gazes around Greg's Haven. Nicola and Cassandra head inside as well, giggling and laughing as they hold hands and whisper something or the other.
Gregory's expression softens when he notices this.
Cass fixes him with an inscrutable look. Melvin's face is as flat and unchanging as a blank sheet of paper. He simply throws himself on the couch and places his ankle atop his knee.
The Toreador Neonate turns to Cassandra, "I am sorry for not telling you sooner."
The Toreador Ghoul merely nods her head, "I understand why you had to keep it a--a secret."
She smiles, and the smile is warm and genuine. Nicola joins her grandpapa in the living room. She compliments Greg on how nice his Haven is, then she remarks, "And I absolutely adore the artwork!"
Cassandra heads to the kitchen and rifles through the fridge, hoping to get something for the pop star to eat or drink. She finds an unopened bottle of apple juice, which she then opens up and pours into a tall and slender glass.
Nicola takes the glass, and she gives her superfan a nod of appreciation.
Melvin harrumphs, "Can we please get down to business, then? Gregory, I do sincerely hope that you've found a buyer for our...stuff."
Gregory equably states, "As a matter of fact, I have. She's a Nosferatu collector currently residing in Scotland for the time being. She's offering the best possible deal on your family's items, Melvin. She doesn't even want to see the collection beforehand- she's willing to buy it all. Cash or bank transfer, your choice."
Melvin blinks. He's a bit surprised at the speed with which this sale is occurring, but he's also pleased. Yet, he asks, "And, compared to prior offers you have brought towards us over the years, is this Nossie collector's offer any better?"
Gregory shakes his head and smiles a bit, "It's by far the best offer that you can possibly hope to get. She has deep pockets. I haven't been able to independently verify that, but she sounded serious on the telephone. She said that she'd be willing to send a Ghoul of hers if need be."
Nicola looks at her grandfather with sparkling eyes, "Grandpapa, just take the deal, yeah? It seems like a no-brainer!"
Melvin shrugs and mutters, "I suppose you are correct. I just have to ask 1 thing: do I know this collector?"
Gregory shakes his head again and answers, "I do not think so, no. How many Nosferatu have you come across in your night?"
Melvin dryly answers, "Far too many to count."
The Toreador Neonate faintly chuckles, "Well, this one's different. And I would like to believe that 1 hour spent cramped up in a bloody telephone box wasn't for naught- her sense of security borders on paranoia. It then took me another 20 minutes to finally get through to her after the initial call. I was about to give up."
Nicola chimes in and beams, "But you didn't and we are so, so grateful for that, Mr. Gregory."
Gregory merely nods as way of response. Melvin asks him to set up a meeting with the Nosferatu collector, but the Toreador Neonate explains that it isn't as simple as either would like it to be.
The Nosferatu collector wants to remain anonymous, so they'll have to meet her Ghoul in an undisclosed location where a highly encrypted laptop will be used to handle the financial transactions.
Greg adds, "And she would like visual confirmation of the goods on your end, Melvin. A simple picture wouldn't do- that way, she could trust that you are indeed selling the actual items, that you have them on your person, and that you are not simply tricking her."
Cassandra murmurs, "Cor blimey. Y--you 'ave the stuff with you?"
The Baritone responds, "We lug it around everywhere we go. I don't trust those bloody banks and their supposedly secure vaults. We're just asking to be blagged if we stash our items there. No, we'd rather keep it on ourselves- it's safer that way. Isn't it, Nicola?"
The granddaughter shrugs a shoulder and takes a small sip of her apple juice, "Eh, I--I suppose so. Are--are we really sure about selling them? A small part of me isn't quite ready to...let them go just yet."
Cassandra rubs her back and sweetly offers, "Aww, that's understandable. Why can't you sell part of it off?"
Out of frustration, Melvin curtly responds, "With all due respect, please do not stick your nose into my family's affairs. It's already been decided well in advance: everything goes. And if I have to deal with a wealthy Sewer Rat, so be it."
Cassandra flinches back and frowns, "W--what's wrong with Nossies?"
Gregory cuts in and places hand on his Ghoul's knee, "Cassandra, not now. Drop it."
Cassandra looks at the floor and sighs, "Y--yeah. Hmph. Sure."
Nicola's eyebrows shoot up and she quickly gulps down the last of her apple juice. She looks from her grandfather to the Toreador, then to Cassandra, then back to Greg again. She clears her throat and sets the glass down.
Gregory gives Melvin the address and time of the meetup.
Cassandra looks at Nicola and asks, "You want to come see me cottage?"
Soho Starlet looks at her Domitor for approval, even going so far as to bat her eyelashes at him. He wordlessly waves his hand, and she gets up and runs off with Cassandra. The pair soon leave, leaving Melvin and Gregory behind to discuss other peculiar peculiarities pertaining to the Green family collection, and the logistics of selling them all off at once.
(And for a damn good price!)
Loathe as grandpapa is to admit it, the merch sales are simply not adequate. Identities don't come cheap; therefore, he wants nothing but the best for his granddaughter.
On the way to the cottage, Nicola admits as much by saying, "Coming in 2nd place is, to him, an insult. It can get rather...overwhelming at times, but he only wants what is best for me...his Ghoul."
Cassandra winces sympathetically and ushers the pop singer into her humble little abode. The air inside the cottage is crisp and fresh, and the interior is homely, welcoming, and cozy.
Nicola nods approvingly, "Wow! I like it!" She saunters over to the living room and plops herself onto the couch. Her feet come up and dangle over its side as she looks up at the ceiling and hums a pleasant tune, maybe something she's working on or perhaps something she's planning to work on.
Cass is overjoyed (and a little nervous) that her favorite is literally lounging in her humble cottage. She begins babbling and rambling about this and that, occasionally throwing in an odd titter or awkward shuffle.
Nicola giggles at this, then she says, "You should calm down a little. At the end of the day, I am just a human being. Now, I may be old...but I shall always be 23 for as long as...well, I'm certain you know how it is, yes?"
(It's a fickle thing, indeed!)
Cassandra joins her and nods, her expression turning contemplative, "Yeah. We miss even 1 feeding and it's done. Not that I'm complaining, though. Gregory is...he has been good to me. What about Melvin? He's a bit possessive of you, innit?"
Nicola shrugs a shoulder and looks down, "He does his best."
She clutches her bicep and sheepishly answers, "Yeah, I--I suppose he can be like that at times. But from what I can gather, your Gregory...is quite different from me grandpapa." The singer averts her gaze and starts picking at a fingernail.
Cassandra laughs, "We might as well compare Domitors, haha! Yeah, Greg has been acting strangely over these past few weeks. I mean, he's always been a little aloof, but this is a whole new level of strange- even for him! Yeah, he's different. That's 1 way of viewing it, I reckon."
She pauses and mulls some things over, "Lately, he's been so distant and disinterested. I dunno why. I 'ave half a mind to ask him, but a tiny part of me is--is afraid of what his answers- or the lack thereof- will be. Y--you're devoted to Melvin, yeah?"
"It goes both ways, luv."
"I hope it does, yeah? Listen, Nicola, I want to ask you something. Not necessarily a favor, just...something I want you to keep in mind."
"For my superfan, I'm all ears."
The Toreador Ghoul clasps her hands together and blinks a few times, "A--a mate of mine works as a school admin- she's also a fan of yours. The school she works at is...is...crumbling. Like, literally! The cracks on the walls 'ave gotten worse."
The other Ghoul places her hand on her mouth and gasps, "Oh, my! That's dreadful! Sorry, please, go on."
Cass carefully does so, "Look, I'm not forcing you to--to do anything, yeah? Not me style. But if you could maybe retweet and repost some stuff through your social media profiles, that- in and of itself- would go a long way in raising awareness to the problems besetting the school."
"Of course! It's the least I can do, really. Have you spoken to your local MPs?"
"Tried and tried. Small protests, petitions, talking to the usual media outlets. At most, just repost something, yeah?"
Nicola smiles softly, "No issue. My grandfather used to tell me to distance myself from politics- this was when we were just starting out. We didn't want to attract any controversy- and we still don't! But we both saw the futility in such an approach to weighty matters. And, well, it's for a good cause, right?"
Cassandra earnestly nods, "Yeah! She'd be chuffed that you've decided to help out!"
Nicola picks up something in the other woman's tone and curiously inquires, "And who is this 'mate' of yours?"
"Uhm..."
Soho Starlet pointedly reminds the other lass, "I am well over a century old. That sparkle in your hazel eyes when you speak about her...it says a lot. A lot more than even you indented, perhaps? Hmm? Come on, you can tell me! I promise not to judge you, alright?"
Cassandra stammers, "P--promise? You won't share it with your Domitor?"
Nicola gently replies, "It will remain between us- no one else." She places a hand on the Toreador Ghoul's knee and tilts her head to the side.
"We--we spoke about a lot of things last night. I told you...a lot about meself, yeah? Amy and I are...together."
"I sense that there is far more to this than meets the eye."
"She's married."
Nicola stifles a grimace and, instead, she squeezes Cassandra's knee.
Cass, for her part, lowers her head a little and exhales, "I--I like her, y'know? And she--she likes me, too."
Nicola can't help but ask, "And who is she married to?"
Cassandra dismissively replies, "Her wife's some posh portfolio manager for Barclays- they frequently get into arguments, by the way. Over the usual: who's making more money. Amy's just a school admin, but that doesn't mean that she's any less of a person!"
The singer bites her lip and seems to shrink back into the couch, "Well, this is...rather a sensitive topic. You should know something about me, Cassandra. And please, don't go around announcing this to the rest of the world, OK? As it is, there's already enough rubbish about me floating about the place."
"Yeah. I promise."
Nicola takes a deep breath and confesses, "I myself am the product of a very torrid affair. Times were different back then- certainly more stringent than now, that's for certain."
Cassandra's expression softens and she reaches over to rub the other woman's shoulder, "I--I don't know what to say. Do you feel...that you're less of a person because of it?"
The singer shakes her head, "I care not where I come from- that is all in the distant past, Cassandra. Growing up, I do vividly recall being called a 'bastard child' on far more than 1 occasion, but some things you learn to shrug off with time. Why? Why should we burden ourselves with a past we can't change?"
Cass nods along, "Yeah. So, what about now? Do you have a...special someone?"
Nicola shakes her head and sighs, "Grandpapa won't allow me- too risky, he says. And to be fair, I happen to concur. Falling in love while being famous is...it's hard, isn't it? And falling in love while being a Ghoul? As it is, somebody tried to murder me last night..."
"Mm-hmm. But you deserve to be happy, don't you? To find that special someone who'll just light up your whole world!"
Nicola pointedly asks, "Is Amy that someone for you?"
Cassandra meekly admits, "She...it's complicated. With her, it--it always usually is. Hiding, sneaking off for a snog or a shag, only seeing each other behind closed doors. That sort of thing."
Nicola asks again, putting more emphasis into her voice this time, "So? Is she the one for you? That special someone who'll just light up your whole world?"
Cassandra shifts around and tries to make herself comfortable, "I--I don't know if I can bring meself to say yes and--and actually mean it. Don't get me wrong, she's a nice lass and all, but...a small part of me feels that...that...she isn't as passionate about this relationship as I am. She calls me clingy, like it--it's a bad thing."
Nicola ventures a guess, "Maybe the pressures at home- and at work- are simply too much for her. But that's still no excuse, is it? You deserve to be happy, too. Perhaps this is just the wakeup call you need in order to realize that?"
A few tears begin to roll down Cassandra's cheeks. The singer places a comforting hand on her shoulder and brings her in for a hug.
Soho Starlet sways from side to side and says, "I'm not going to tell you how to live your life. Shh, shh. You'll find happiness. It might not be today; it may not even be tomorrow. But time is on the side of us Ghouls- it has no choice but to be, Cassandra. Provided we...do as our Domitors ask, hmm?"
Cassandra sniffles and buries her face in the other woman's shoulder, her frame trembling and her hands tightly gripping Nicola's back. They spend some time locked in each other's embrace.
Melvin raps his knuckles on the door and quickly says, "C'mon, we have to go to the rec center. Cassandra, would you like a lift?"
Cass gathers her things, pats her clothes, wipes her nose, and breathes in. Nicola, meanwhile, gets up from the couch and runs over to her grandfather.
She asks him, "So, did you and Gregory get everything sorted?"
The Baritone half-heartedly nods, "It's the best deal that we'll ever get, I'm sure of it."
Cassandra politely interjects, "C--can I ask what's being sold?"
Melvin replies, "We'll talk more about it in the car. By the way, Gregory wanted to see you. Make it quick, yes? We want to be out of this Domain before sunrise."
Melvin's granddaughter tries to suppress a giggle. Cassandra bolts outside and runs to Greg's Haven. The Toreador Neonate is indifferently standing near the entrance. He has a pensive look on his face as he gazes at the droplets of rain falling from the sky.
Cassandra makes her way over to him and clears her throat, getting his attention.
He beckons her to follow him upstairs while explaining, "There's something that you need to clean up. I...accidentally spilled it when...moving some things around."
She climbs up after him, and her face pales when she sees the mass of congealed paint splattered all over the floor and wall. It looks like an explosion in a rainbow factory went off and produced this result.
"You just decided to ignore it?" she sheepishly asks while casting a suspicious glance his way.
Gregory averts his gaze and takes on a more assertive tone, "Please clean it up at the soonest, Cassandra. Your friends can wait." Without bothering to say anything else, he departs the room and leaves her to clean up the inexplicable mess.
Cassandra huffs a sigh, heads downstairs, and informs Nicola and Melvin that she's gonna be a bit delayed. But she tells them that she'll catch up with them once she's done. Melvin shrugs and orders his granddaughter to come along.
Nicola turns to look at the Toreador Ghoul with apologetic eyes. Cass presses her lips into a thin line, nods back, and heads back upstairs to clean up. Nicola solemnly says farewell to Gregory and leaves with her grandpapa.
Before any actual cleaning can be done, Cassandra assesses the situation and deduces that she will need to scrub off the wall and then, of course, mop the floor. Some kind of strange sickly-sweet smell emanates from the gloopy paint. Cass isn't sure what to make of it.
She scrunches her nose, fills a few buckets with water, and gets the other supplies from the downstairs closet. When she returns to the room, the smell has grown even stronger than before.
Gregory's Ghoul waves a hand in front of her face and grimaces at how intense the smell is. She gets down on her hands and knees, dips a sponge into a bucket of water, and starts scrubbing away. After that, she gets up with a grunting groan and starts mopping.
Cassandra manages to clear away the bulk of the mess, but the floor still looks quite murky.
Gregory went out to sate the eternally ceaseless Hunger of his Beast, so he isn't around to supervise her. Cass doesn't mind this- if anything, it gives her the freedom to...do a little poking around.
She licks her lips and checks that Greg isn't anywhere near by, then she swiftly tiptoes around the room, scanning it for potential clues. Like some sort of amateur sleuth, she narrows her eyes and strokes her chin while slowly mumbling in a very posh accent, "Oh, yes, very interesting, indeed."
A snicker soon escapes her mouth, and she goes back to mopping the floor. Nothing stands out in her immortal master's bedroom, so she wonders if perhaps he stashed away whatever the problem is elsewhere?
Little did she know...
The rec center reeks of sweat, aging foam mats, and air freshener all mixed together. It is an olfactory concoction that the Ghouls grimace at. But Sheriff Alice and Melvin don't see what all the fuss is about- Kindred, after all, are clinically dead, many of their bodily functions having ceased entirely.
Smells are no different in that regard. Breath is no longer drawn, and their hearts are as still as a silent night. Therefore, any and all physical sensations that they can experience pales in comparison to that which they've once known when they were mortals.
But that doesn't stop Cassandra from covering her nose with her sleeve, Nicola from trying not to gag, and Sheriff Alice from giving the both of them odd looks.
"So..." Cassandra meekly asks, "...how's everything going? You found Sven yet?"
Sheriff Alice shakes her head, "Put that aside for a moment, Ghoul- we'll discuss that later. Let's go over what happened last night."
Nicola, Melvin, and Cassandra do their level best to answer the questions being asked of them, and the Tzimisce Sheriff (more or less) accepts the responses that are given.
By the end of it all, Sheriff Alice is seemingly satisfied with the account of events that she has been provided with. She tells grandfather and granddaughter that they are free to go.
Then, she turns to Cass and firmly orders, "You, stay. You 2, leave. Now."
Melvin rubs his chin and quirks an eyebrow, "Is there a problem?"
"No. Thank you for your time. I am waiving your...indiscretion, but only this once. But next time, well, let's just say that there won't be any next time." The Sheriff casually tugs leans back, revealing her a part of her shiny hand canon.
Nicola pats Cassandra's tensed-up shoulder, gives it a tight (albeit gentle) squeeze, nods, and heads out with her grandpapa. She asks him if they can wait just a little longer until the other Ghoul catches up with them.
Melvin sighs a bit, "Hff. Fine."
Sheriff Alice joins her cold hands together and regards Cassandra with a shrewd look, "Is that Devil Worshipper still haunting your dreams?"
Cass gulps and nods, "Y--yeah. Please tell me that you've found him?" There is far more than a hint of desperation in her voice.
The Sheriff waves a dismissive hand, "You know I can't do that. Given how you act as an unwitting conduit for that Sabbat bastard, your very presence here could compromise this entire operation. But I am still impelled to check on you."
"W--why?"
"You know why, Ghoul. Don't act silly. May we go over some more questions? Good. Do you recall if anything stood out while you are having these visions?"
"I'm helpless, frozen, completely at Sven's mercy when he pulls me into wherever he wants me to be..."
Sheriff Alice thins her lips and seems to sigh a little, "You will need to do better than that, Ghoul. Is there anything about the...space that stands out? Sights? Sounds? Smells? Tastes? Any thoughts or feelings associated with it?"
Cassandra glances down at the floor and shakes her head, "It's all...rather otherworldly. A--alien."
The Sheriff looks back up at her and weakly chuckles, "Alien, hmm? As a Tzimisce, I am more than familiar with such concepts. Although, that doesn't mean that they still don't disconcert me from time to time. How good are your drawing skills?"
Cassandra sucks some air in through her teeth and meekly says, "Well, it's...shite."
"Hm. Very well, then. I'll talk to my Grandsire. He has these...machines that can supposedly tap into what you're seeing in these dream visions and actually show them to us as a visible representation on a computer."
"Oh?"
Sheriff Alice nods, "Yes. I don't know if he'll agree to it, but I'll try my best to convince him, anyway." Judging by the look in her eyes, a part of her isn't too keen on approaching whoever he is for any reason whatsoever.
Cassandra clasps her hands together and eagerly asks, "Who--who is your Grandsire?"
The Stoker reflexively snaps, "Not your concern, Ghoul. Now, next question: do you feel up to this? Are you willing to cooperate with us? More importantly, is your allegiance to the Camarilla, to this city's Prince, and to your Domitor's Clan still steadfast?"
"Shouldn't Greg be 'ere for this? Is this some sort of loyalty test or something?"
Sheriff Alice locks eyes with Cassandra and steadily replies, "In a sense, yes. The presence of your Domitor, however, would severely limit my questioning. You will have to make do with me. Are you or are you not steadfastly devoted to the Camarilla?"
Cassandra curls her fists and firmly replies, "Yes."
"I'm not wholly convinced."
Cass groans and grits her teeth, "Yes! Bloody hell! Yes, I--I'm absolutely devoted to--to all of them. And--and in that exact order!" Her chest rises and falls as she sucks in deep breaths of air, an angry look in her eyes.
Sheriff Alice remains unfazed, "Good. Finally, if it were up to you, how would you prefer we resolve this situation with the Sabbat interloper? Hmm? He can hear you, so can I. Go on, don't be shy. Were you in my shoes, how would YOU have addressed this issue?"
Cassandra counters, "I--I'm the one who has to see him every time I close me eyes and nod off!"
"Irrelevant. How would you handle this?"
Cass is reluctant to reply, "It...I would...s--stake him and--and 'ave done with it. Put him in a coffin, d--don't bother with asking any questions or trying to find out anything more. Y--yeah."
She then mutters, "Cor blimey, I hope that he doesn't try anything tonight..."
Sheriff Alice dryly says, "He won't. I'm not saying any more than that."
"H--how can you be so sure?"
The Fiend deflects, "Your friends are waiting for you. Go. And 1 last thing, Ghoul: be very wary of who you associate with- associates, family, friends, colleagues, lovers..." Her tongue lingers on that last word.
Cassandra nods and mumbles, "Y--yeah, that's..." Nervousness spreads throughout her body. She gets up and briskly walks out the door. The Sheriff lifts her chin and watches the Ghoul fading into the distance.
After she leaves the rec center, she takes a moment to let out a breath she didn't even realize she'd been holding in! She spots Nicola and Melvin deep in conversation with each another and hurries over to them.
While awkwardly bouncing on the balls of her feet, Cassandra wistfully says, "So, this is goodbye, yeah? Off to--where are you 2 off to, anyways? Are you still going to tour after...what happened last night?"
Melvin runs a thumb across his lower lip, "We're still deciding, weighing our options. Nicola here suggested that we go on a sabbatical until everything blows over. I say we shuffle the locales up a bit. Ireland is out of the question...for the time being, at least."
Nicola's gaze is directed down at the floor, "It was merely a suggestion, grandpapa. To be honest, I'm not sure if I'm ready for Scotland just yet. And all the venues in Wales are...booked for another couple of weeks. Even my lovely soprano friend can't pull that many strings."
She further points out the obvious, "And someone tried to assassinate me. But here I am, still singing, still writing new songs, still thinking about traveling, touring, doing what I do best: performing in front of large crowds of people who all come to see ME."
Melvin mutters, "They adore you, my dear."
Nicola serenely replies, "Indeed, they do. And I don't want to let them down. It's a shame that it--it all had to come to an end, eh? S--so quickly..."
Cassandra clears her throat and speaks up, "It doesn't have to, though. Right?" Hopefulness laces every word.
Melvin clicks his tongue and responds, "And you don't understand this business and the risks involved with it. Now, Nicola is my granddaughter- that's all there is to it. Need I remind you that she is also my Ghoul and I her Domitor?"
Nicola releases a resigned sigh and rubs her forehead, "It all depends on grandpapa's decision. He's kept me safe thus far and I--I appreciate the sacrifices he's made over the long, long years. Cassandra, it's been bloody trying...the running, the hiding, the secrecy...it's all getting quite tedious."
"But necessary," Melvin sharply interjects.
Cassandra swallows and takes a moment to choose her words carefully, "A--and you think that--that...but people- myself included- LOVE you! Don't you see that? We love you! At least go out with a--a bang and not a whimper. For us?"
The Baritone scratches his head, "Now I don't quite like how that sounds. Early on in her career, our...experiments with fireworks always went awry. And I simply do not trust pyrotechnicians- no matter how well qualified they may be."
Nicola blandly shrugs a shoulder and chuckles, "Yeah. There's a reason why we don't 'ave any of that during me shows. We learnt our lessons fairly early on, didn't we, grandpapa?"
"We certainly did."
Cassandra solemnly says, "Thank you for...coming 'ere to Gloughchester, gracing us with your presence, and performing for us. I hope that--that you come back some day? Even if it's decades from now, I--I'll still be around. Hopefully!"
Nicola plainly says, "We'll meet again, Cassandra. Of that I can be sure."
Before he walks to the car, Melvin tells his granddaughter, "Don't make promises unless you're absolutely certain that you can fulfill them." He kisses her cheek, nods at Cassandra, and heads off to get the car ready.
Nicola presses her lips into a thin line and nods, "He--he has a point. I can't say where I'm going next- somehow, I still have to keep up the mystery, haha! But I assure you, Cassandra, this isn't goodbye. We'll meet again."
Cassandra suddenly pulls her fave in for a tight hug, "Yeah, I'm sure we will. And I'll continue listening to--to EVERYTHING that you put out, yeah? Everything!"
Nicola firmly grips her arms around Cassandra and sighs with a mixture of both contentment and wistfulness, "Good." They gently sway from side to side, neither of them quite willing to break the huggy hug just yet.
Melvin honks the car horn a few times. Nicola pulls back and quickly wipes the tears forming at the corners of her eyes, "I--I have to go. That's my cue, haha! Listen, you'll find someone who--who makes you happy, yeah? Maybe it could be Amy, maybe it could end up being somebody else entirely."
Cassandra holds back tears of her own, "Yeah...may--maybe. And what do I do when that happens?"
Nicola clutches the car door handle, opens it, and explains, "You don't have to hold back anymore. Make her just as happy as she makes you, whoever she ends up being." She winks and gets in the car.
Cassandra shoots Nicola a goofy grin, waves goodbye, and heads back home. Sheriff Alice overheard enough of that conversation to decide that- yes, indeed- this one will need to be watched closely.
A lot more closely than the others, in fact.
The rain pelts down from above, each drop seemingly heavy and dense. The skies above are dark and gloomy- foreboding, even. But Cassandra doesn't notice any of that. She grabs some dinner from a food truck and drives on home.
On the way back, she tries Horace's number, but he's not answering. She needs to actually go and pay the Malkavian Fledgling a visit sometime soon, seeing as how it's been a wee while since they've last seen each other.
The last time she saw him, he was still a Ghoul! So, his Embrace into the Clan of the Moon must have happened quite recently.
The Toreador Ghoul eats her dinner while some tunes from the UKF Drum & Bass YouTube channel blasts from the speakers. She quietly chews her food, slowly bopping her head along with the beat.
After she's done with her dinner, she changes out of her clothes and into something more comfortable: short shorts and a sleeping vest that reveals a part of her stomach. After plopping down onto her bed, she grabs her Blackberry phone and shoots Amy a text message.
Amy's response is immediate: "Hey, urself. Still basking in the glow of your newfound fame?"
Cassandra's smile doesn't quite reach her eyes: "Yeah. Um...actually, I think we need to talk. BTW, I spoke 2 nicola. no promises, but she said that she'll look into reposting a thing or 2 about the school."
Amy responds: "I don't know how u do it, but u r the best, u know that? So, what's on your mind, eh?"
Cass hesitates while typing: "Are you happy? Like, really happy?"
"Is this some sort of rhetorical question???"
"No, no! I just wanted to make sure that--that u were ok. So, r u or r u not happy? Are...we happy?"
There's a long pause between Amy's next message: "What suddenly spurred this line of questioning?"
Cassandra heavily sighs: "NVM. Must be the tiredness. Truth b told, im spent. Probs going to sleep early...earlier than usual lol. Can we meet soon? Our last shag was hot & steamy af! <3 and im starving for more."
"Sure thing, babe. It's always a pleasure. and u certainly know ur way around a woman's body. Cheeky minx :-P"
"Almost as well as u do ;-P"
Amy bites her lower lip and chuckles a little: "Talk later? She's calling me outside for a...chat. We nearly had another row, but i managed to calm her down. Idk why she gets like that at times."
Cassandra winces: "Sorry 2 hear that. money-related? Again?"
"It almost always is. Bye. MWAH!"
Cass responds with a string of kissing-face, heart, and kiss-mark emojis and puts the phone aside. A harsh sigh leaves her mouth, and she starts massaging her forehead. A part of her is dreading the sleep, but she is so bloomin' tired from tonight's (and last night's) events!
Within an hour, she is out like a light. It doesn't take long for her to find herself in the midst of another dreamscape vision. Dust particles rise from a rough path carved into the ground, obscuring Cassandra's line of sight.
Sven materializes out of the dust and saunters up to her, his lips curling into a fiendish grin, "Y'know, I have feelings, too. But I gotta admit: what you proposed doing to me seemed tame in comparison to what that gun-toting Welsh hottie has in mind."
The Baali is clad in a beige bathrobe that looks like it has seen better days, with no shoes on his feet. He stretches his arms over his head and yawns in an exaggerated manner, "Mm. Oh, I'm still worn out from last night! So, your fave went bye-bye, huh? Cool, cool. Good for her."
Cassandra helplessly watches as a cluster of slimy-looking entities claw their way up through the dirt, soil, and earth. Soon, they all shamble towards Sven, but keep their distance from him. The Baali makes a shooing gesture and casually shoos them away.
Some of them break down into pieces and fade away with the rest of the dust. The dreamscape alters to reveal some kind of an underground ritual chamber made out of stone.
Sven runs a hand through his hair and slowly makes his way around the space, "Well, this place is all kinds of trippy. You're scared, aren't you? Hey, for it's worth, I don't blame ya. Alice put you in a tough spot when she started asking you all those questions, right? Then again, that's her job as Sheriff for the Ivory Tower elite."
He bends down and picks up some kind of rock. He tosses it into a gaping chasm below. Sven briefly peers down the pit and shrugs, "So, what's the plan for tonight? Snooze? Nod off? Doze off? Catch 40 winks? That's it? You're not gonna do some light reading, watch TV, err...mess around a bit?"
Cassandra witnesses a slight shift in the dreamscape. Sven doesn't seem to notice the numerous pairs of eyes looming over him from above.
The Baali grins and approaches her, "This is probably getting old for you. Wait..."
He looks up and gasps at those swirling orbs floating above him. He snaps his fingers and shakes his head, "Guys! Gals! Err...others! Whoa, hey, what's up? W--what are you doing here, huh? I...I thought that you'd be...resting--no--busy by now? W--wow, you're all looking real nice, huh?"
The swirling eyes shift colors. A deep sense of fear sinks into Cassandra's gut.
Even Sven appears to be a bit shaken by the sheer magnitude of their combined presence. He makes something resembling a gulping noise, "Well, this isn't fair. You didn't have to--you're making me nervous, y'know that? Hey! Stop staring into my--"
He waves his hand in front of the Ghoul's face, "I--I was just--just having some fun with my new bestie! OK?! Nothing nasty or even remotely harmful, I swear! Y--yeah..."
A low vibration echoes throughout the space. Sven looks up and presses his lips into a thin line. He soon lowers his head and lets out a sigh of sheer frustration, "Ah, shit. OK. Yup. Message received. Uh-huh. Loud and clear."
He fixes Cassandra with a steely gaze, "Y'know what? We're done here. Not done-done but done for the night. Sweet dreams, babe! KAPOW!" He claps his hands together, causing a VERY large horde of chittering insects to rain down on both of them.
She wakes up in her own bed, sitting upright and dry heaving in fright. Her blood runs cold as she scrambles out of the bed, thinking that some of those creepy-crawly insects followed her into the waking world.
Upon a careful inspection, however, it turns out that there are none. Outside, the sun looks like it's just about to make its debut. The lingering dreamworld haze begins to fade from her mind.
Cassandra stares at the grayish hue of the sky, hoping against hope that Sven will keep his word. Or better yet, leave her the 'ell alone. She drinks some water and sluggishly makes her way back to bed, freefalling onto the mattress and feeling it creak beneath her weight.
As the sun begins to rise, she begins to nod off once again. Her snoring soon graces the house. For now, it is time for the Ghoul to catch up on some well-earned sleep.
Act 8: Caitiff
"They have no Clan. It is even perhaps possible that said lineage is long-lost or unknown. A flawed or an unknown lineage tends, more often than not, to lead to certain problems within the more organized hierarchies of Kindred Society. Disdain and contempt are tragically the norm. However, those whom I know seem...acceptable. These creatures have been abandoned by their Sires and are lacking in the support that comes with a Clan's structure. As a result, it is innately fractious. They cling to any sort of protection and acceptance- desperately. Many eke out an Unlife on the fringes. Yet, their unpredictability and volatility are what intrigues me the most. Conversely, it also frightens me." -From the personal diaries of Gregory | Entry: On The Caitiff.
Cassandra awakens to the sweet sound of birdsong emanating from outside. She springs out of her bed, hungry and eager to start the day. Her skin crawls when her eyes sweep over her arms. A lingering feeling of phantom insects scuttling across her flesh causes her to shudder a wee bit.
"Brrrr. Blimey, that was...odd." She shrugs her shoulders and fixes herself some breakfast. While the bathtub fills up with water, she brushes her teeth. As for the most important meal of the day, the Ghoul elects to go for 2 pieces of fried bread and a fried egg.
She singsongs some familiar Nicola Green tune while making the food. Her la la la's fill the kitchen as a part of this makeshift rendition. A bird soon makes its own (sweeter) sound and sits on the windowsill of the Ghoul's kitchen.
Cassandra's eyes widen in surprise. She ceases her singing at once and squints to get a better look at the avian. It's a common greenshank with a certain sparkle in its beady birdie eyes.
"Oh, hiya," Cass tentatively greets the bird. The greenshank sings a few notes and cocks its head to the side. It peers right at her for a few seconds and then chirps a handful of times. It flies around and perches itself back on the windowsill again.
The song it whistles is soft, sweet, and charming. The greenshank bird regards the Ghoul for a few seconds more, bows its head, and flutters away.
"A greenshanks..." Cassandra murmurs, her tone filled with awe and recognition. She only knows that the bird was such because she used to date a birdwatcher.
When she and Cass weren't snogging or fingering each other, the birdwatcher lass would impart and bestow some avian-adjacent knowledge onto her. The Toreador Ghoul might not know anything about the various breeds of the different species, but she's at least a teensy bit educated in that regard.
She's going to chalk up this sighting to being a bit of a good omen.
Right? Because that's what it was?
Right?
Well, Cassandra sure bloody hopes so!
She keeps her brekkie in the microwave oven and gets ready for her bath. Cass sinks into the warm and sudsy water. A deeply blissful sigh leaves her mouth as she submerges and relaxes. She throws her head back and closes her eyes while trying to soak in the much-needed tranquility.
Cassandra steps out of the bathtub after having cleaned herself. Her naked body drips with water as she wraps a towel around herself. She trills her lips a few times and struts out of the bathroom.
Since the work truly starts when the sun goes down, Cassandra opts to wear something on the more casual side- a blouse with puffy sleeves, maroon slacks, a headband on top of her head, and some miscellaneous bits of jewelry. A wee smidge of makeup completes the look.
Once Cass has applied her eyeliner, she pouts at her reflection in a playful manner and carefully slides the pencil into the black pot. She straightens her brunette hair a few times and gives her appearance 1 final sweep. With a satisfied smile, she takes her breakfast.
While Cassandra chews her food, she sees that Nicola Green has recently posted a short clip on her official Facebook page. The Ghoul makes an intrigued sound. Her curiosity is piqued, so she turns up the volume and gives the vid her undivided attention.
Soho Starlet is holding the phone quite close to her face. A somewhat flustered sheen coats her pale skin. Her eyes gaze intensely at the screen, looking a bit unfocused.
Yet, she beams, "Hello, my lovelies! Gloughchester, I just want to thank you for such a magical time. From the bottom of me heart, it's been an absolute pleasure to--to perform for you lovely lot, who always cheer me on. Even now, your love and your support...mean the absolute world to me."
Nicola blows a kiss and concludes, "But unfortunately, this is where we must part ways. Farewell, Gloughchester. And to all of my lovelies out there, my sincerest gratitude to you, as well. Mwah!" A wink and a giggle, and the video ends.
Cassandra wistfully stares at the blank screen. She does, however, feel a small measure of relief.
"We--we'll meet again, yeah? Hopefully? Whenever that is..." Cass whispers to herself and wonders what the future holds.
(If only she knew...)
Greg's Ghoul finishes her scran and cleans the plate. A sigh leaves her mouth as she plops down on the couch. Her hazel eyes drift over to the fireplace- it's been a wee while since she has used it.
For now, however, she reads whatever book she can get her hands on. A gray and gloomy mist pervades the streets and the skyline. A sprinkle of raindrops splash against the windows.
An hour passes...
It's now 10:22 AM. Cassandra blows a raspberry and sets her book aside. She pinches the bridge of her nose and then cracks her neck. A slight breeze drifts in through the open windows.
Now is a good time as any to go about the city, Cassandra reckons. She shoves a few things into a random handbag of hers, puts on a raincoat, grabs a purple umbrella, and heads out to the bus stop.
The Toreador Ghoul patiently waits for the bus to arrive. She has no particular destination in mind- the journey, she reasons, is (usually) far more important than the actual destination.
Cassandra idly hums while staring out the window. Rain ceaselessly beats against the glass. She fixes her eyes on the rivulets running down the window, hypnotically losing herself to the rhythmic movement of the raindrops.
She is soon snapped out of her reverie by the ringing of her Blackberry phone. She sighs and answers it, "Hiya, Amy."
Amy softly chuckles, "Hello, yourself. So, did you see the videoclip that Nicola Green posted? She's leaving so soon. But--but why?"
Cass is wholly privy to the why, but she's not about to disclose an iota of information. So, she shrugs and says, "Eh. I haven't the foggiest. I--I mean, I'm sure there's a perfectly valid reason for it, yeah?"
Amy nods, "Hmm. I'm on my break now and I reckoned that I'd give you a quick ring."
Cassandra's lips quirk up into a cheeky smile, "Oh?"
"Mm-hmm. Maybe we could...Have lunch together?"
"Oh. I--I'd love that, yeah. Somewhere private, right? We don't want anyone seeing us...now that I am sort of famous, yeah?"
"Ah, yes, I hadn't quite thought of that. Yes, we...certainly ought to be careful. And it just so happens that I know the right place. It's a bit...err...pricey, though."
Cassandra winces slightly, "Oh, not too posh, yeah?"
Amy shrugs and stares at the ring on her ring finger, "Eh. My treat. What say you, hmm?"
Cassandra chuckles, "Well, if you're paying. Then I'm all for it, yeah. A--are you sure?"
Amy exhales through her nose, "She won't find out, don't you worry your pretty head. Trust me- I know what I'm doing, Cass."
"I--I look forward to it."
"What's wrong? Something the matter? You sound...glum."
"Err...bad reception on me end, I reckon. Yeah, yeah, let's--let's do lunch, hmm? Don't worry, I won't order the most expensive thing on the menu."
Amy slowly chuckles and watches a few pupils going by. She nods at them and absently rubs her ring finger again. In a lowered voice, she responds, "I'll text you the address. I get a long break today, so we...can make the most of it, eh?"
Cassandra feels a flutter in her stomach, "D--definitely, yeah. 1 PM sharp?"
"1 PM sharp," the other woman echoes and hangs up.
Cassandra waits for a couple more minutes and then disembarks the bus. She graces the bus driver with a sincere smile and thanks him with a cordial nod. As she strides away, the driver gives her a once-over and chugs along.
The downpour seems to have died down a bit, leaving behind a damp and mildewy air. But the light rain pelts against Cassandra's purple umbrella. Cobblestone streets, boutique shops, and trendy cafes are all laid out before her.
Cass has a good deal of time to spare. For some reason, a familiar (and high-pitched) whistle- like that of a bird- grabs her attention. She stops in the middle of the busy walkway and attempts to locate the source.
She squints and spots a greenshank- likely the same one from earlier today- perched on a table of an outdoor restaurant. It sings a few notes and offers the Ghoul a significant glance. Cassandra breathes in sharply through her mouth.
The bird flies a circular motion in the air and dashes off into an alleyway.
"Huh. How odd!"
(Pleasantly or unpleasantly?)
Regardless, Cassandra doesn't pay it much mind. Her eyes dart over to the shops and linger on a boutique store whose outrageously posh prices are advertised right on the large window.
Cass groans, rolls her eyes, and moves on.
Throngs of mortals can be seen going about their days. Business, shopping, working, playing, dining, and the like. The rays of the sun barely peek through the slate clouds as the afternoon slowly looms closer and closer.
While Cass engages in some window-shopping, she spots the very same greenshank perched atop a living statue. The person is decked in lavish regalia and strikes a very dignified pose. He remains still despite the bird sitting atop his crown.
Cassandra tentatively approaches and notices the bird staring right at her with its glimmering, beady eyes.
"Erm..."
The bird extends its neck, chippers a few tunes, and tilts its head to the side.
"Hiya."
The statue fella looks on ahead. Other passersby stop and take pictures of the still-as-the-grave performer. Meanwhile, the greenshank keeps its eyes locked on the Ghoul.
A random lad in a puffer jacket hollers at her, "Oi! Keep your distance, luv! Don't distract him and ruin the shot!"
She flinches.
The bird utters out a low noise, flaps its wings, and takes flight.
Cassandra watches the bird ascend higher and higher. To see what is likely to be the same bird in such a short span of time over and over again is...confusing, at the very least.
Somehow, the Ghoul feels an overwhelming sense of calm.
How intriguing.
Cassandra nods to the puffer jacket lad, presses her lips into a thin line, and takes a few steps back.
Her thoughts swirl with questions while the people around her stop and admire the living statue. They take pictures with phones and digicams, leave little tips, and compliment him on the job well done.
After a few more minutes, the statue man moves. He releases a huge breath and shakes his head. His sea-green eyes sweep over the people, and he heaves a deep sigh. His wrinkly face goes slack, and he steps down from the podium.
He stares at the Ghoul, "Can I help you, miss?"
"You did a good job, yeah?"
"I reckon." He drags out a rather large and sturdy lunchpail from under a bench.
Cassandra's eyes widen when she sees his lunchpail. A surprised little chuckle escapes her.
The statue man regards her with a cryptic smile, "Is something funny, eh?"
She nervously points to his lunchpail, "Nice lunchpail."
The man's painted face scrunches in confusion, "Uh...thanks? What's so funny about that?"
"Err...heh, nothing."
"Oh, no, I insist."
Cassandra nervously shifts her weight around, "Me dad once had a similar looking lunchpail. When I was small, I used to decorate it with--with stickers and the like, yeah."
He opens the lunchpail and pulls out a sandwich wrapped up in thin plastic, "Hm. Interesting. Sounds like your dad was an interesting man, miss."
"He was a miner, he was."
"Ah. That explains why he'd need a big lunchpail."
Cass smiles weakly, "Yeah."
The man unwraps his sandwich slowly, "Funny thing is, my own da was a miner. I remember, as a wean, coming along to those massive strikes back in the 1980s. Judging by your age, you wouldn't have the foggiest as to what I'm talking about. But I remember, very clearly, seeing him and his friends walking the picket lines with their big signs and bright banners."
The Ghoul's total cumulative age is likely close to this mortal performer's age. She herself vividly recalls going along with her father to the same strikes during 1984 and 1985.
Tumultuous times, to say the least.
Cassandra softly smiles, "Yeah, you--you're probably right. I'll leave you to it, then. Bye!"
He nods and chews on his food. Cass fishes into her handbag and tosses some coin into his hat. His sea-green eyes watch her intently as she walks away.
"Strange people you meet every day. Hm, well...thank you for the kind donation, at least."
It's now 12:58 PM. Cass already got Amy's text. With 2 minutes left to spare, she hurries along to the aforementioned restaurant.
The rain ceases for but a short while, leaving behind a dreary, misty atmosphere in its wake. Distant thunder rumbles and occasional flashes of lightning illuminate the slate skies above.
The eating establishment in question is...cozy, dark, but rather welcoming. It's entirely indoors and the windows are tinted. The linoleum floor is smooth, and a colorful array of abstract art decorates the walls. Extremely dim lights hover above the tables.
There are 2 floors. The mezzanine floor looks to be far less occupied than the ground floor. Overall, the interior design is decidedly contemporary. The indoor water fountain serves as the main centerpiece.
"Cor blimey..." is all Cass can manage to say as she takes it all in. Despite it being quite dark in here, there is still enough natural light coming in from the outside to make certain things out.
Amy is casually sitting at a corner table on the top floor, scrolling through her smartphone. She's dressed in a plain blouse with geometric designs, black jeans, and a nose ring. Her short black hair looks like it has recently been washed.
A faint smile blooms upon Amy's mouth when her eyes sweep over the Ghoul. They greet each other with a hug and sit down.
"Glad you could make it," Amy states as a wider smile plays about her glossy lips.
Cassandra chuckles, "You paid a small fortune so that we could have a nice, fancy lunch, yeah?"
Amy shrugs and sets her phone aside. Cassandra notices the tan line on the other lady's ring finger. A blink passes before the Ghoul abruptly glances away and wiggles on the chair.
She awkwardly clears her throat and snatches the menu booklet. It's all a tad on the posh side, but it isn't the most excruciatingly expensive place in the entire world.
Cassandra's eyebrows shoot up when she confesses, "Wow! These prices are actually quite...fair."
"I know. So, how have things been with you, hmm? I don't have much time, so we'll have to make the most of it. Do you fancy a spot of wine?"
"Oh, I'm not sure. S--should you be drinking?"
Amy looks to the side, "It's just a glass, babe. Wine?"
"Uh, sure...white wine," Cassandra mutters and checks her phone. She puts it on silent and looks through the bulky menu booklet.
A waiter strolls over a couple minutes later and takes their orders.
Amy, for her part, goes for a beef Wellington with a side of asparagus and boiled baby potatoes. She is sure to clearly mention her nut allergy to the waiter. The waiter scribbles it down and fixes the other lass with a friendly grin.
Cassandra decides to keep it simple, and she settles on the braised cod on a bed of Schezwan rice with a side of roasted baby carrots and mushrooms. She politely asks for some extra saffron to be added on the fish.
The waiter bows his head and tells the duo that their order will take some time owing to a sudden surge in demand- some outside business is making a rather large request, so the staff is a bit tied up.
The women assure him that they're in no rush and then thank him. He takes their menus and trots off.
"So," Amy begins and leans back in her seat, "you met Soho Starlet and even got to spend some with her! Tell me all about it."
Cassandra looks down at her own clothing and wonders out loud, "I--I'm not underdressed for this place, am I?"
Amy clicks her tongue and lazily waves a hand around, "Oh, don't fret. Relax, you're fine. Tell me, how was it? Being in such close proximity to THE Nicola Green, eh?"
"It was...fun, yeah. Exciting, thrilling, exhilarating...all of those things. And--and so much more."
"You seem nervous, what's wrong? Don't worry, like I said before, I'm paying for today's lunch, so you don't have to stress. All right?"
"No, no, it's not that. Err--sorry, I mean, thanks for the treat, I--I really appreciate it."
Amy smirks, "I'm sure you do. We can always figure out how you're going to repay me." A suggestive look asserts itself all over her face.
Cassandra furiously blushes, "Y--yeah, I reckon that we'll uh...come to an...agreeable arrangement."
Amy drums her fingers on the table and bites her bottom lip, "I've always been one for agreeable arrangements. I want to know how you felt in her presence, babe."
"Giddy. Almost anxious. Nervous. But Nicola is absolutely down-to-earth, no pretensions or fakery. She's a massive sweetheart. You wouldn't believe it, yeah."
"Oh. Wow. That's quite nice, I suppose."
Cassandra leans forward and puts her hand atop Amy's while slowly asking, "And how has your day been, hmm?" The Ghoul's thumb gently caresses the back of the other woman's hand in a circular fashion.
Amy sighs, "Same old, same old. I'd call it boring were it not for the obvious--"
"The crumbling walls and the unwillingness of anyone to do anything about it."
"Yes, precisely. Every day, I see the fear in the eyes of those pupils. Some of them come up to me and ask when it's going to be fixed up. And I--I can't give them an answer because even I'm wondering the same fucking thing."
"It's not fair..."
Amy bitterly scoffs, "Tch, it's worse than that. It's a travesty. We're scheduled to give an MP a tour of our crumbling school sometime...soon. Schedules keep conveniently changing, though."
Cassandra sharply exhales, "Blimey. It's like the people on the top hate us all so much that they don't want to even touch the school. Can't or won't, doesn't matter, either way, the message that us ordinary people get is still the same."
"A rather grim and depressing appraisal, but not one that I wholly disagree with, Cass. Do you recall the Lakanal House Fire of 2009? I tell you, neglect will be the death of all of us, what with all of the money that continues to bleed from the school...and other vital services."
Cassandra grimaces tightly when that tragedy back in London is brought up, "Ah. Yeah. Shoddy renovations, too. Somehow, the powers-that-be are engaging in something far, far worse than neglect. We've got a bunch of right dodgy bastards in charge of keeping us safe, hm?"
Amy grunts, "Well, they're failing in their duty of care towards us. Fucking wankers. I'm just hoping that something will make the right people pay attention. Protests, petitioning, journalists, screeching at bloody MPs, Twitter, something. Anything."
"We shouldn't 'ave to live in constant fear of our surroundings, yeah? It's not fair."
"Tell me about it, babe. Listen, let's...take a breather. As it is, I already have work-related stress. I don't need more. You look lovely today, by the way."
Cassandra returns the heartfelt compliment with a loving smile, "Thanks. And so do you."
"Psssh, oh please, this is just my average, everyday work clothes. Nothing fancy, nothing out of the ordinary."
"You'd look good in anything, Amy. Even a big brown sack would suit you."
Amy giggles and lightly shoves the other woman's arm, "Hah. God, are you ever the charmer, aren't you? What's next, me in a cardboard box?"
Cassandra naughtily smirks, "You without a cardboard box."
Amy purses her lips and chuckles. She favors the woman seated opposite her with a toothy smile, "We'll see about that, eh? How's your vacation treating you? Are you...relieved to be away from your work?"
Cass responds, "Obviously, yeah. But there are times when I can't help but think about...the outstanding stuff before me vacation sort of abruptly began."
"Abruptly began?"
"Oh, err...yeah, err...it's hard to explain. But I'm not, like, totally stressed. Now that I have plenty of free time. I'm still kind of...busy doing...other things and the like. B--but I'm glad that I'm spending this time with you, yeah."
Amy narrows her eyes a little, "If you say so. You work for some very strange people, Cassandra."
(She sure does!)
Cass nervously laughs and averts her gaze. Some sweat begins to form on her face.
"Are you alright, babe?"
"Y--yeah, fine. Just thinking about...things, yeah."
"You mentioned things," Amy states, "what 'other things' would these be, hmm?"
Cassandra shrugs a shoulder and plays with the cutlery on the table, "Ehh...just the sort of things that- for myriads of reasons- I'm not quite certain I can talk about with you."
"Oooh, secretive things, hmm? And what are these things that you ought not to delve into, hm?"
Cassandra's eyebrows go up. She nervously gulps and fixes the other woman with a look of despondency, "I--I can't, sorry. Please don't make me feel any more guilty. Like, I would love to tell you and all, b--but I can't."
Amy straightens her back, purses her lips, and stares right into the other lass's hazel eyes, "Our relationship is a secret. What's 1 more added to the pile, eh?"
"..."
Amy slouches in her seat and sighs heavily, "Oh, please, don't give me that look. Look, babe, I'm not trying to--"
The greenshank bird from earlier somehow made its way INSIDE the restaurant. It flies straight towards the ladies and circles their heads. It lets out a few of its birdy noises and lands on the edge of their table.
Its beady eyes bore right into Cassandra.
Amy's jaw hangs open in disbelief.
Cass's hazel eyes are wide in shock and confusion.
Amy slowly speaks, "W--what is--how did it even get in here??"
Cass shakes her head from side to side while still staring at the bird, "I--I've no idea. I swear, this little bugger has been...following me ever since I saw it on me windowsill earlier this morning."
Amy inquires, "What?? Really??"
Cassie shrugs, "It's the only logical explanation that I 'ave, yeah."
The bird doesn't pay Amy any mind. It remains laser-focused on the Ghoul. Now, it doesn't utter a single sound.
Cassandra's index finger reaches out and cautiously taps the bird's forehead, "Good little bird. Err...nice birdie? Are you the same one that's been following me around? Greenshanks, you lot, yeah? How many of you are there in this city?"
Amy interjects, "Not that many, I'd reckon. Say, how do you know that it's a greenshank?"
"Briefly dated a birdwatcher once upon a time, I did. She was a--a nice gal."
"Huh. I guess we all have our histories and the like."
"Yup."
The greenshank bird emanates a few musical notes and gracefully hops off the table. When the waiter approaches it with a broom to shoo it away, it loudly screeches and immediately takes flight.
"Excuse me for interrupting," the waiter huffs and puffs, "your meals will be ready soon. Thank you for bearing with us, ladies."
He rapidly struts away and hurries back into the kitchen. The other patrons murmur and mutter amongst themselves. What an odd sighting, indeed!
Cassandra awkwardly coughs and rubs her bicep. She sincerely asks Amy, "C--can we please drop it, Amy? Please, for me? I'd much prefer not to dwell on certain aspects of...me life."
Amy nods in resignation, "I can respect that, Cass. Fair enough. It was...wrong of me to be so pushy. I just...want what we have to be honest and open. Or as honest and open as an affair can be."
Cassandra flinches when that is mentioned. She lowers her head, and her eyes catch sight of the cutlery and smooth cloth napkin. A feeling of guiltiness floods within her. She exhales slowly and pinches the bridge of her nose.
Amy notices the uneasiness and queries, "Something the matter? Did I say something wrong?"
"Is--is what we're doing...improper?"
Amy rubs her forehead, "Oh, not this again. For fuck's sake, you make it sound like we're doing something downright illegal. Come on, darling, we've had this conversation before, remember? Many times...and in various stages of undress, if memory serves correctly."
Cassandra huffs, "Right. But you're still married."
Amy pays that remark no heed and decides to swiftly move on, "So, after this, when can we meet next?"
Cass gets the hint and decides to drop it as well, "Hff. Fair enough. I--I dunno. I'll have to check me schedule and--and see when I can fit you in."
"Saucy minx," Amy teases, "you can squeeze me in anytime of the night."
Cassie plainly replies, "That's when I happen to be busy, but I'll...make some time. Hopefully. Maybe you could swing by me place some night and stay there until morning?"
Amy places her chin atop her clasped hands, "A tempting offer. Perhaps. We'll see what happens then, hmm? Tell me, have you thought more about traveling to a new country?"
"I 'ave, yeah. You?"
"Honestly, not much. Believe it or not, but I rather like it here...in England. I've become accustomed to the weather down to my very bones, hahaha! But...she wants to visit the South of France sometime. Oh, and to Germany, too. She claims that it's beautiful in springtime."
Cassandra subtly encourages her, "Well, y--you should go, innit? It's a right good opportunity to pass up on. People never get chances like this all that often, yeah?"
Amy has that uncertain glint in her eyes again, "I'd be missing out..."
"On what?"
Amy fixes the Ghoul with a knowing look that says it all without mouths needing to be moved or sounds needing to be made out loud.
Cassandra chuckles nervously and adjusts her posture, "Y--yeah, that's a valid point, I--I suppose. And I don't know if I 'ave the kind of dosh lying around to come tagging along all secret like."
Amy rests her chin atop her balled-up fist and idly blows air between her pursed lips, "The complexity of it all...us, in particular. It's quite...something at times, isn't it?"
Cassandra agrees by way of a small grunt, "Mm-hmm. You could always--"
Amy firmly interrupts, "No. I--I can't. It's not that simple. Nothing in this world of ours is ever that easy. What, divorce my wife and ride off into the sunset with you, or some tripe like that? Save that for the pictures, Cass."
"Why is it 'not that simple', exactly?"
Amy clicks her tongue, "Please, let's not talk any further about this, OK? Oh, look, lunch is coming." She jerks her chin over to the approaching waiter.
Cassandra peers over shoulder and sighs, "Finally."
She points out the obvious, "But--but we really should have this conversation- seriously- at some point, yeah?"
Amy simply chuckles and languidly waves her hand, "Whatever you say, darling. Now, dig in before it gets cold."
Cassandra shakes her head and puts on a smile for the approaching waiter.
The yummy, piping-hot food is adroitly placed down onto the table, and the waiter bows before making himself scarce. Steam billows up from the plates.
"Gosh!" is all Amy can say in a tone of sheer surprise.
Cassandra is just as astonished when she waves the hot vapor away with her hand, "Woooh! Hot, hot, hot, hot...!"
Amy chuckles and reaches out to squeeze the other woman's shoulder, "Hot? Why, yes, it is hot, isn't it?"
Cassandra's hand goes under the table, and she reaches out to touch Amy's thigh. A flirtatious glance is exchanged.
"Mm, careful, now. You've got an audience..."
Cass gingerly withdraws her hand and murmurs, "Sorry. Yeah. Yeah, you're right. Lots and lots of eyes on us. Better keep it below PG13. Heh."
Amy lightly laughs, "Oh, relax. Do you think that I'm the only married person having an affair in Gloughchester? No, definitely not."
Cassandra raises both her eyebrows as she readies her cutlery. She nervously swallows the lump in her throat, "There's loads of 'em out there..."
Amy casually shrugs and echoes, "There's loads of 'em out there. Hmm. I am well and truly famished. This looks positively delightful."
"So do you," Cass purrs back, "so do you."
"Oh, stop it, you minx. I wouldn't want to leave a moist spot on these fine chairs. The horror..."
Cassandra clicks her tongue and lightly kicks the other gal under the table. They both giggle and start the task of eating through their respective lunches. Various subjects are talked about as they slowly chew and swallow.
People come and go. Some patrons choose to eat here, whereas others opt to take their scran home and gobble it down in their...knickers while watching telly.
White wine is sipped and cutlery gently makes contact with porcelain. The two women joke and laugh about things. A tension, albeit slight, simmers beneath their words- an unspoken language of sorts. Topics drift hither and yon.
There is a familiarity shared between them. Also, an intimacy that simply cannot be ignored...illicit as it may be.
Amy stabs a baby potato with her fork and lifts it up. She chuckles at it before eating it with a delighted expression before stating, "So, I was thinking of popping by the local Sainsbury's to do some shopping- mostly miscellaneous items."
Cassandra makes a face, "Ugh."
Amy casts a sidelong glance, "Have something against Sainsbury's, do you?"
Cassandra nods and scoops up some Schezwan rice with her fork, "You've got that right, yeah." She hesitates for a moment before putting the food into her mouth.
"Care to tell me why?"
"Me mum used to work for them- treated her bad, they did. Wankers. So, I'm...boycotting them. Indefinitely."
"Wow," Amy remarks while shaking her head, "that's quite the grudge, isn't it? You know, you never spoke about your parents. Why is that?"
Cass uncomfortably shuffles in her seat and nearly drops her knife, "I--erm...it all happened a--a long time back."
(In the Ghoul's case, it was definitely quite a long time ago!)
Amy points out, "I mean, you know about my parents and how they didn't quite accept me soon after I came out of the closet. I had to leave the fishing village that I grew up in and--and start from scratch in a big, unfamiliar city." Her eyes begin to water a little.
Cass reaches across the table and lightly holds the other woman's hand, "I'm sorry."
Amy musters up the tiniest of smiles, "It's alright, babe. I'm...quite over it these days. So, about your parents. Did they at least...accept you for who you are?"
Cassandra's expression falls and she slowly answers, "I--I never got the chance to tell either of them, no. But I am fairly certain that they would've accepted me. Y--yeah."
(For a wide variety of reasons, the Toreador Ghoul is choosing NOT to disclose certain aspects about her past and family history to the unsuspecting mortal. Easier said than done, however.)
Cassandra's lower lip quivers and she abruptly changes the subject, "We--we understand each other well, d--don't we?"
Amy nods in agreement, "You're right on the money, babe. We...know what it's like to have to work for a living and not be able to afford all of the nice things that life often dangles in front of one's eyes, yes?"
Cassandra thoughtfully sips on her white wine and states, "True. I mean, we're alright now...but who's to say that it won't go tits up in a few months' time, yeah?"
"I don't particularly want to think about it. As it is, my wi--she often likes to bring up her well-paying job at Barclays in contrast to my comparatively lackluster one as school admin. Row after row and it often ends in huffed sighs and silent treatments."
Amy picks at her remaining food with her fork and begrudgingly stuffs it into her mouth.
Cassandra cuts up a piece of fish and winces, "Had another row? Again?" The disbelief in her voice is rather evident. She eats the bite and leans forward a little.
Amy slowly nods, "Yeah. But don't worry, she's...none the wiser about...you, us, or anything even remotely related, obviously. All those friends of hers. God, who knew that bankers and people in finance could be such bellends, eh?"
Cassandra faintly snorts, "Tell me about it. Apart from the crumbling walls, how's work?"
"There are a few refugee children currently studying at our school. They're from Syria, poor little lambs. They're having a hard time adjusting and let's just say that there are certain...elements that want to make that time even harder than it already is."
"Tch. I know the types all too well, yeah. Has anyone, what, like threatened them or some such thing?"
"Not yet. Well...not yet anyway. But said parties do love throwing certain insinuations around. For fuck's sake, they--they're just kids who are fleeing a war-torn country and seeking refuge on our shores. Yet, for some reason, people with a grudge wish to pin all of the country's ills and woes onto them, and to be perfectly honest, I've just about had it with their narrow-mindedness."
Amy's palms come down upon the tabletop and she grits her teeth. Cassandra grimaces and gives the woman's ankle a slight kick. The nearby customers cast questioning glances at them, some paying closer attention than others.
Cassandra reaches out and holds the other lady's hand. Amy exhales heavily, paints a smile upon her visage, and plasters a mask of cool collectedness. Once her composure has been restored, she excuses herself from the table and heads off to the facilities.
Cass quickly finishes her meal, dabs her mouth with the napkin, and follows suit. Her shoes echo along the marble tiles as she heads on over to the ladies'.
The bathroom in question is on the tighter side of things. It is, like much of the restaurant, dimly lit to the point of darkness. Subdued lighting can occasionally be found in the form of a tiny lamp on the ceiling. Everything is made of marble and porcelain, giving it a rather classy touch.
Some of the other lasses in the bathroom take selfies while pouting whilst others wipe their smudgy mascara off with wet wipes and redo their makeup.
Amy has both her hands placed atop the countertop. Warm tears slowly trickle down her cheeks. She whimpers and sniffles before lifting her head up and meeting her own gaze in the mirror.
Cassandra steps inside and sees Amy. The 2 briefly make eye contact before the latter shakes her head and enters 1 of the available stalls.
Cass washes her hands as the other ladies begin to take their leave. Giggles or sobs or snippets of phone calls occupy the airspace. Amy emerges from her stall, and the 2 quietly converse.
Once the last woman has made herself scarce, the 2 of them are now...alone. Amy washes her hands and shakes them dry. Cassandra is very visibly distressed.
Amy plainly says, "I--I'm sorry for losing my temper."
Cass tells her, "You 'ave every reason to be angry. The state of--of this country...it's a right bloody mess. Filled with imbeciles at the reins, innit?"
Amy chuckles faintly, "It's not ideal, that much is certain. I guess that's wh--what happens when you bottle so much up for so long. I--There's no one else with whom I can talk to about these things. Even...she simply doesn't care about any of it."
Cass firmly states, "But I care. About you, about...what the future holds. If anything at all."
Amy looks at the tan line on her ring finger and rubs it a few times. She purses her lips and half-whispers something that the Ghoul can't quite pick up on.
"Pardon?" Cass politely asks.
"N--no, nothing. Just...pondering certain aspects of...this. Us. Of life. Of--of living in the world..."
Cassandra approaches Amy and puts her hands around her waist. She draws her in for a very caring and tender embrace. Amy melts into her touch and lets out a faint sigh of relief.
The Toreador Ghoul inspects Amy's hand and notes, "That tan line, eh? It leaves quite a--a mark, yeah?" Her fingers glide over it for a quick moment.
"Hmph. Yeah. A reminder of...certain things."
Amy's stares at the walls of this bathroom when she goes on, "I--we really shouldn't be doing this. In here. What if somebody--"
Cassandra kisses her full on the mouth and fondles a breast. While Amy is initially caught by surprise, she wholeheartedly returns the affection and pushes her pelvis against the Ghoul's. Tongues gleefully swash and bash as the kiss drags on.
Amy breaks the kiss and pants wildly. Her cheeks are flushed and her breathing is heavy. Her lips part a little and she comments, "Of--of all places to get--"
Cass chuckles and steps back, "Wouldn't be the first time, would it?" She presses her hand atop Amy's chest and gently nudges her backwards.
Amy bites her lower lip and shakes her head. They sensually stare into each other's eyes until the door flies open. The 2 of them immediately part and dart their gazes in different directions.
Cassandra and Amy briefly flash each other a smirk as a customer meekly steps into a stall and closes the door. A snicker is exchanged before the both of them exit the bathroom.
Keeping true to her word, Amy pays for their meal, and they leave the establishment behind. She flashes a credit card wedged between her index and middle fingers and points out, "Her way of...trying to paper over and rectify things, basically."
Cassandra can't help but feel a tad guilty at that admission. She tries not to think about it too much as they stroll past a few shuttered shops. The lightest of drizzles are present. Clouds are thick and a washed-out gray.
Amy sighs when she and Cass walk past a store selling all manner of timepieces, "I best be getting back to work soon. I--I do hope that you enjoyed yourself."
Cassandra softly squeezes the woman's hand, "Yeah, no, it was grand. Lovely lunch. And...err, was it too expensive?"
"Relax, I've handled it. Are you sure that you don't want something to take home for your dinner? Don't worry about the price."
"I'm fine. We...certainly do understand each other. We--we can relate to each other on a number of levels, yeah?"
Amy pauses for a brief moment before concurring, "I suppose so. You know, you seem quite older than you look. Why is that? Or am I just being too...blunt?"
Cassandra blurts out the most nervous of titters and waves her hand, "Oi, come on! Don't make me feel all awkward about meself, yeah? Err...Amy?"
The school admin regards the Ghoul with narrowed eyes, "Yes?"
"No one's gonna find out about...us, right?"
Amy matter-of-factly states, "There are 600,000 people in Gloughchester- give or take. I'm sure that we can have this between ourselves, hmm?"
Cassandra's eyebrows shoot up and she mutters, "If you say so. So, this is goodbye for a while? Until next time? Whenever that is?"
Amy licks her lips and thoughtfully nods, "Don't push it. I'm free when I'm free. Discretion is paramount. Goodbye and please try not to text me too much or at odd hours of the night. Questions might start getting raised- the ones that I'm not quite ready to give answers to. Ever."
Cassandra presses her lips into a thin line, "Right. Mm-hmm. Sure."
Amy gives Cassie's shoulder a good squeeze, flashes her a smile, and heads off. The Ghoul sticks her hands into her pockets and watches her go. While Amy goes off, she puts her ring back on her finger.
When Cass is alone, she briefly gets lost in thought until...a bird comes and sits upon her shoulder. A yelp escapes her lips and she flinches. The greenshank bird remains steadily perched on her shoulder. It cocks its head to the side and lets out a few sounds.
"Cor blimey, you scared me out of me skin, you--you--"
The greenshank's beady bird eyes scrutinize the Toreador Ghoul. How serendipitous and strange.
Cass gingerly taps the top of the bird's head and chuckles slowly, "You're an interesting one, aren't you? How many of you are there in this city? Or is it just you, hmm? Greenshanks, you lot, right?"
As if understanding her, the bird makes something closely resembling a "yes" sound. It soon flies away and goes off. Up, up, and away it goes!
Cassandra eventually starts the walk to the nearest bus stop. She patiently waits alongside a diverse group of people. An unhoused person sleeps under a blanket on 1 of the benches.
The Ghoul's heart sinks when she spots them. She fishes for some coins and drops them into their open hat. With nothing more to offer, she moves on and decides to focus her attention on the nearby bus stop adverts.
Cosmetics and football stuff, mostly. Cass shrugs and enters the next bus that approaches. She gives the bus driver a sheepish smile as she makes her way down the aisle.
After flopping down onto a vacant seat, Cassandra sighs and stares out the window longingly. Numerous questions swirl and tumble around in the midst of her brain. She spaces out a bit before going straight ahead with the ride that lies ahead.
The journey back home is relatively smooth and quiet. She regrets not telling Amy about her parents- both of them are, tragically, dead now. But there are layers to this tragedy that even Cassandra is not wholly aware of.
Her father died shortly before she was turned. And mum died...a lot earlier.
Cassandra sniffles and wipes the tears that are streaking down her cheeks.
The remainder of the afternoon goes by in a blur. Cassandra lights the fire in her fireplace, pokes it a few times, cozies up on the couch, and drifts off to sleep.
Noises from the telly are the last things she hears before it all goes black.
Her eyes suddenly pop open and her whole body feels like it's floating. There seems to be an easiness and an effortlessness to the motion. Her surroundings are nigh incomprehensible.
Cassandra is unable to say, do, or think anything.
Her initial instinct is to panic, but the feeling is subdued by an external...force. Or forces.
Sven rubs his hands together and approaches the helpless Ghoul while a smug smirk plays upon his lips. Numerous tiny dust particles reign in the "skies" above.
"My, my, my, what have we here...? An impromptu lunch date, huh? Y'know, affairs are kinda trashy...but what do I know, right? I'm just...the guy."
Cassandra helplessly watches as the Baali rockstar swooshes around her at a blindingly fast pace. She is powerless to do anything about this, just like she always has whenever he invades her dreams.
There's nothing. No escape.
Sven does the widest and most all-encompassing gesture that he can possibly do, "You don't see them...yet. Or do you? My...Umbroods are all around us. And they've taken an interest in you. I still dunno why, but I gotta admit, you ARE a pretty interesting chick."
He runs his fingers across her brown hair and goes on, "There's 1 Umbrood- just the 1- that I'd actually like you to meet someday soon. For now, just think of them as a concerned pal. Someone who knows...stuff about your past."
Sven whispers, "Stuff that even you may not be aware of yet. The funny thing is...I was supposed to help your Gregory with a lil' problem of his, but somebody ratted me out. That's too bad, isn't it?"
A menacing caw echoes through the void. Tendrils appear to sprout out from the depths below. They enshroud the Ghoul and the Baali swirling around her.
Sven shakes his index finger and playfully clicks his tongue, "Ohhh, no, no, no, no. Shoo, shoo, hey, hey! Back off! Not now, no this isn't what we--oh, alright, y'know what? Fine."
Cassandra's hazel eyes roam around the misty space. Shivers of fear run down her spine, and her heart rate quickens.
Sven reassures her, "Relax, relax, they aren't gonna swallow you whole or whatever, OK? I just wanted you to...see what I drag along with me wherever I go. The kind of power that I have. Enough about me, though."
He points at her and briefly takes a deep breath, "How're you holding up, huh? Let's see...yeah, all dandy. Oh, and by the way, I wouldn't trust that Tzimisce hottie and whatever machine she might lug out to try and flush me out. Why? Cuz I can't- and won't- be found. Heh."
The Baali seems oddly sure (and secure) in the fact that the Sheriff of this Domain won't be able to come and locate him. Could his Umbroods have something to do with keeping him concealed?
Sven briefly closes his eyes and circles around Cassandra. He looks into her widened eyes and remarks, "Aww, you poor thing. You have no idea- none at all- how intimately connected you are to...our dark world, huh?"
He disappears for a moment, but the sound of his voice can still be heard echoing throughout this space with neither ceiling nor floor, "Things were kinda bumpy, but your mom...she...wow, she ensured that you'd make it."
Sven concludes by informing her, "OK, I'm off to explore the deeper depths of your mind. Holy shit, it is so, so exciting!" He wildly howls like a wolf.
The tendrils recede and fade into nothingness. The deafening silence is finally broken when Sven's final words reverberate for a few extra seconds, "Don't try and prod me for answers, OK? That's not how this works. And be careful of any birds you come across. Not THOSE kinds, hahaha!"
Cassandra's eyes snap open and she springs forth from the sofa. She winces and touches her forehead. In a bit of a daze, she blinks a few times, takes a deep breath, and paces around.
Her lips quaver when she asks out loud, "H--how does he know about me--me mum?? And what did he mean when he said that she ensured that I'd make it?! Bloody hell!"
She picks up a pillow and angrily tosses it at a wall. Her temper simmers down and she slumps back onto the couch. Tears well up in her eyes and her chest rises and falls.
The sun is about to set...
Gregory is stirring from his day-long slumber. The Toreador Neonate can only feel the lingering presence of the Aapilu. The vampire's cold body feels so stiff. He can sense the 5 eyes of that mouthless, 6-fingered being staring straight through the paltriest and most fleeting of cracks in reality.
Greg slowly turns over and sees a random painting on his bedroom wall beginning to...curl up and deform. He wants so desperately to wake up and go on about his night, but instead, he finds himself entranced by the hypnotic colors and patterns.
Cassandra's Domitor watches as the colors shift and seep from the wall before they seemingly get swallowed by a gaping maw that somehow materialized out of nowhere. Gregory's eyebrows rise and his lower lip quivers a little.
As much as he wants to look away, his nature as a Toreador compels him to observe and appreciate the transformation. The painting's original look, aesthetic, and overall feel is now wholly restored.
Gregory forces a few breaths as he props himself up against the headboard. He throws his head back and gathers his composure. He is left shaken and intrigued at the same time.
Greg's bathing is brief and to-the-point. As are his clothes- a collared shirt with a bland sweater on top, khaki pants, black socks, and slip-on shoes.
When he has finished getting dressed, the vampire applies some face creams, adjusts his hair a little, and smooths out any perceived wrinkles on his clothing. He needlessly double-checks his appearance in the mirror and scrunches his nose up when a figure blurs right past him.
He merely winces and lets out a shuddering breath. When he looks again, there is seemingly nothing out of the ordinary.
The Toreador Neonate heads down the stairs and paces around the sitting room for a few minutes. A knock on the door knocks him out of his reverie. He crosses the room and opens the front door.
The Ghoul dryly waves at her Domitor, "Hiya, Greg." She is lacking the usual bubbliness and enthusiasm that he would normally associate her with.
Gregory quirks an eyebrow and arches his lips into a barely noticeable smile, "Good evening, Cassandra. Come in, we have much to discuss."
Cassie tugs on her leather jacket and nods slowly. Her form-hugging jeans accentuate her lovely curves and contours. Her makeup looks to be rather slapdash and hastily applied, and the rouge on her cheeks is fading.
She plops down onto the couch and sits with her legs apart.
Gregory inquires, "How was your day?"
"Eh, fine. D--did you sleep well?"
"Yes." Flat and cold as always.
The Toreador crosses his arms and scrutinizes his retainer, "Something seems to be the matter. Is it what I think it is or is it something else entirely. Please, I insist that you open up about it."
Cassandra rests her cheek on her hand and huffs, "I'm just...feeling a wee disappointed. Nothing serious, I--I assure you. I'm ready for whatever you send me out on tonight?"
Greg ventures, "Is it because Nicola and Melvin are well out of Gloughchester's borders? You regret, what, not being able to spend more time with the pop singer??"
Cass lies, "Yeah, something like that, I suppose. So, Caitiff tonight, right?"
"Yes. I owe many of the Clanless, but a vast majority of it is rather inconsequential. However, I wish to send you- as always- to help them on my behalf. Do as you've always done. By now, I am certain that you know what you're doing. Just...have a care for your safety and be cautious at all times."
"Hmm. As long as there are no more Wights to put down. Wait, didn't you say that you wanted to do ALL of your favors? Why are you picking and choosing now?"
Gregory rubs his chin and flatly tells her, "Don't dwell on it too much. Do as I ask, not an iota more. The other Caitiff can wait. I'm prioritizing certain ones. Now, pay attention. This is important."
Cassandra folds 1 leg over the other, sits up straighter, and gives him her full and undivided attention, "I'm listening, yeah."
The Aesthete clears his throat and is about to say his piece when his attention is drawn to his Ghoul's t-shirt. The faded image of a red rose is just barely visible under her leather jacket.
Cassandra's face scrunches in confusion and she blinks twice, "What? Something wrong with me shirt?"
Gregory stammers, "No, no, it's just...curious, yes. H--how long have you had that for?" He leans closer and squints at the stylized image.
Cassandra tucks some stray hairs behind her ear, "I've had it for years at this point. It--it's a bit faded because of all the washing it's been through." A nervous chuckle escapes her lips. Her eyes dart to the side.
Greg snaps out of it and nods a few times, "Yes, yes. Hm. It's a very nice shirt, Cassandra."
She merely favors her immortal master with the simplest of smiles and beckons for him to carry on.
He does so, "There are 2 Caitiff. They are...err...somewhat like you, so to speak."
"Huh?"
"They're lovers."
"Um...?"
Gregory scratches his forehead with his thumb and slowly explains, "Their names are Kurtis and Duke."
Realization dawns upon the Ghoul and her eyes go wide. She inquires in an awestruck manner, "Oh, wow. And...err...how long 'ave these 2 lads been...lovers for??"
Gregory informs her, "For quite a while, actually. I owe them a great deal for certain, shall we say, services rendered in the past. We'll just leave it at that- the particulars and specifics aren't terribly important, and I expect you to respect that boundary, yes?"
Cassandra rubs the side of her head, "Y--yes. Yeah, sure."
"And I have another task for you."
(Of bleedin' course, he does).
Cass tightly smiles, "Um...sure, whatever you want. Name it and if it's within reason, consider it done."
Greg curtly nods, "Hm. Yes. If possible, I would like you to ascertain their true identity- their Clan, so to speak. We can, obviously, rule out Salubri and Nosferatu. As you are acutely aware. That still leaves a significant amount of Clans available for examination."
Cassandra gulps and nods a few more times, "Right, right. Apart from that, what exactly am I being sent for?"
"You'll find out when you approach them- I needn't burden you with so much unnecessary information all at once."
"I--I can actually retain--"
Gregory holds out his palm and dryly tells her, "It was not meant as a comment on your cognitive abilities, Cassandra. I know how...witty you can be. No, I simply mean that we shouldn't waste precious time on details that you'd find out anyway. Fetch me a pen and paper if you'd be so kind. Thank you."
Cassandra gets up and goes to a nearby desk to fetch what he asks- given her familiarity with her Domitor's Haven, it's not too hard to find anything. She soon returns and presents both to him while having a smile plastered upon her lips. Her hands shake ever so slightly.
The Artisan takes it from her and rapidly jots down an address upon the slip of paper- owing to his long years in Her Majesty's Civil Services, his handwriting is nothing short of immaculate and excellent.
After handing it back, he informs her, "That's their address. Given your current outfit, I suppose that you'd fit right in- it is best to NOT draw any undue attention to yourself- the Clanless are many things on nights such as these, but they certainly are not...daft."
She casts a sidelong glance at her Domitor, "Are you only telling me this because I'm going to a council-owned building?"
Gregory uncomfortably shifts his gaze away from Cassandra and mutters, "I--I--" The words fail to come out. He shifts around on his seat some more.
Cass clicks her tongue, "They're people too, y'know? Fuck all that tabloid shite a--about chavs and council estates, eh? You're better than that, right? Right?"
"Yes, I would like to think that I am. But it seems that I, too, have my flaws and biases to work through. Just as you have your own to address."
Cassandra's ears go red with embarrassment. She indignantly sputters, "Wh--what the--what's that supposed to mean?!"
Gregory stares up at the ceiling, "I needn't spell it out for you. Now, please, the night is still young. I feel as though you should hurry along so that you can aid Kurtis and Duke in whatever it is that they require of...you. And by proxy, me. Will there be anything else?"
"No." The word comes out a little harsher than she'd anticipated.
He knowingly hit a raw nerve. A nerve that Cassandra knows all too damn well is there. But now's hardly the time for reflection or anything of that sort. She firmly nods at him and departs.
On the way to the Lexus, the Ghoul's mind is filled to the brim with a variety of thoughts and feelings- not all of them wholly pleasant, to say the least. She drives along and bides her time until she reaches the council-owned apartment complex.
Greg stands up straight and adjusts the collar of his shirt before heading out to satiate the eternal demands of the Beast within.
During the ride, Cass asks herself if she should've sought clarification on certain matters, but Gregory's remark (he knows nearly everything about his Ghoul) really got to her and threw her off a little.
Cass decides that it would be wiser to just focus on the task at hand and leave any other issues for later. Her Lexus soon comes to a stop in front of a very tall concrete structure that is clearly starting to show its age and the wear of time.
The beaming headlights of the Lexus cut through the downpour and cast numerous shadows along the pavement. Before Cassandra turns off the headlights, she leans forward, narrows her eyes and attempts to get a better look at the apartment block. She spots some kids milling about.
Youth in beanies, puffer jackets, anoraks, and other assorted streetwear are seen passing a blunt amongst each other. They all seem rather nonchalant about the Ghoul's presence. Some of them come and check out her Lexus but shrug and walk away soon after.
The smell of cannabis lingers.
Cassandra checks her hair, fluffs it up a few times, and exits her Lexus. The wind blows through past her, the rain drizzles down onto her leather jacket, and she makes sure to ready her umbrella.
The kids squeal and laugh as they jump from puddle to puddle and scurry back into the building. 1 of them glances back and sees her standing outside in the pouring rain. His blue raincoat looks a tad bulky on his tiny frame. He playfully waves at the adult before rushing inside.
People dressed in tracksuits and sneakers pass by and dryly greet her with some or the other variation of "Cheers".
Cassandra replies in kind and heads into the courtyard of the complex. The play equipment looks like it hasn't been given much thought since last century. Numerous weeds and grasses poke out here and there. Malign neglect is the most painfully apparent trait of this area, sadly.
Some teens are hanging out by the benches. Familiar sounds emanate from their phones as they bop their heads and sing out loud. Others are not-so-secretly smoking a spliff or snogging passionately in the darkness provided by the shadows of the looming concrete buildings.
Cassandra recognizes the songs as those from the UKF Drum & Bass YouTube channel. She snickers and nods along to the tunes while she walks past them. 1 of the lads nods his head to the music, laughs, and coughs out a plume of acrid smoke. Another kid begins beatboxing for fun.
A teenaged lass with braided pigtails begins an impromptu dance-off against her mates while a younger kid films the whole thing like it's a professional music video or something of that sort. Pigtails surprisingly holds her own and even earns the respect of the crowd for the most part.
These people, they...don't have much (for a variety of reasons well outside their immediate control). As such, whatever moments of happiness that they're able to salvage from the harshness of daily life, they will gladly take it, embrace it, and ride it for all it's worth.
(And only a heartless fool would condemn them for simply...being human).
Cassandra, being a child of a working-class man, understands this quite well.
A faint stench hangs thickly in the air. 1 of the 2 elevators have a big "OUT OF ORDER" sign hastily written with red marker. The other seems functional enough but is already full.
Cassandra sighs and patiently waits. These 2 Caitiff reside on the 11th floor. There is a total of 22 floors in this building block, though the other blocks in the area vary somewhat.
The interior is coated in a gloomy yellow-orange, fluorescent light that casts uneven and strange shadows. A tall lady in a trenchcoat tucks some of her greasy hair behind her ear and furtively glances at Cassandra.
Cass waves at her, "Hiya."
The lady curtly nods, "Hm. Elevator's been out...for months on end. We called...and no one picks up. And if, by some miracle, they do...well, they do fuck-all."
She lets out a bitter chuckle, "On top of that, our pipes were busted a while back and still haven't been fixed. Y--you don't look like a tenant? I have a knack for my neighbors' harried visages. Let me guess: uni student looking to find a flat because the dorms being offered are just as shit, yeah?"
"Err, it can't be that bad??"
"Hmphrfg. How old are you, love?"
Cass gives the age she was Ghouled at (during the late 1990s), "27. Why?"
"Hmph. See that wall over there?"
Cassandra follows the other woman's bony finger and nods, "Yeah, what about it?"
The lady bitterly notes, "When I was your age, it was just as bad. A decade ago, however, stains began to appear- caked-on dirt, filth, and other...unmentionable things that I really rather not bring up, y'know?"
"Blimey."
"Heh. We tried all the tricks in the book- protests, letters, and other things which I cannot be bothered to remember. It wasn't even that long ago that an MP used to reside here. Hm, I wonder what happened to him. I reckon that he conveniently forgot about us...dregs. I mean, why wouldn't he? He must've gotten his fair share of scandalized coverage- pity points to the poor and the desperate council rats."
Cassandra jabs her index finger on the up button and asks, "Has no one even bothered...fixing it up, at least on the surface??"
The lady shrugs and says, "This is the reality of England, darling. You've got a long road ahead of you to find that out, but it'll come eventually. Been like that since that even before that witch from Grantham came along and took a sledgehammer to everything and everyone."
Cassandra's eyebrow arches high. She fully knows what (and to who) the other lass is referring to. She puts in, "And her political descendants are now in power."
The lady snorts, "Who, that pig-shagger? Tch. I was an old Labor leftie...all me life, love, all me life. But now? I--I don't know in which direction the wind blows anymore. I honestly don't."
The hopelessness and faraway look in the older lady's eyes cause Cassandra's gut to churn uncomfortably. She sympathetically grimaces and steers the conversation away from such unpleasant subjects.
As they chat some more, the elevator arrives. The doors pitifully groan open. Cass motions for the lady to go in first. She grunts and does so.
While the elevator begins its ascent, Cassandra asks, "Does the media at least know about...your plight?"
"They do. If memory serves correctly, I recall someone from the Guardian used to stay on the, let's see...ah, yes...5th floor. Promises were made to write a story...and yet, I am still waiting for the damn thing."
Cassandra shakes her head from side to side, "What about other media outlets?"
"Hmph. The other papers, especially, want nothing to do with this area, darling. Not too hard to see why, eh? And the tabloids? That Murdoch filth? I wouldn't wipe a vagrant's dirty anus with them."
Cassandra's eyebrows rise at that remark, "Wow. You're quite...angry, yeah."
"You've been living here for most of your adult life, working, paying bloody taxes, contributing to society, and what have you, then you have a right to be fuming. And then 1 day, out of the blue, someone in a fancy suit comes around and decides to kick your mates to the curb."
"Wh--what do you mean?"
The lady huffs a harsh sigh and answers, "What, you think that this is all social housing? Fucking real estate tycoon types or whatever they're called are circling these properties like vultures. I can tell. So can the others. The topmost floors were all bought out and are now, if you can believe it, for sale on the private market."
"Blimey."
"Aye. We're not fools- we see the signs all too clearly. This is like a silent form of warfare against the lower classes. Blatantly neglect...everything till the tenants 'ave no other choice but to up and move. And when it inevitably crumbles apart due to disrepair, swoop in and start privatizing every bloody inch of the place. Tear down everything, put up a posh high-rise, and sell it to rich sods for fucking millions."
Cassandra nods in agreement, "Yeah...it's wrong."
"Well, it's perfectly legal from what others have told me."
"B--but it's still wrong."
The elevator stops and the doors open at the 11th floor. Cassandra and the lady walk out and head into the hallway.
The lady fixes Cass with a questioning look, "What brings you here, anyway? To our humble home- well, humble is a word that I wouldn't use- you look to be a stable young woman."
Cassandra shrugs, "I'm meeting up with...friends of a...err...employer of mine, yeah. Something like that."
"Hm. Well, I bode you good luck in that case. This place is starting to crumble apart and there's precious few people who seem to give a shit about what happens to us."
Cass gently and sincerely offers, "But I care."
The lady sighs and shakes her head, "Words alone- as well-intentioned as it may be- won't save us. Repairs, maintenance, a bloody good cleanup, now that sort of thing is far better than any platitudes- if anything, I've grown rather sick and tired of platitudes and other such hemming and hawing."
She puts in, "No offense to you, of course. You still have a long way to go before you turn into an old hag living out the rest of her days in a moldy flat with inadequate heating."
Cassandra, owing to the power of the Vitae, will never age. She tries to encourage the bitter mortal, "Y--you're not that bad-looking, I mean--"
"Bah! Oh, please. Stop. My wild times are far behind me, love. The only things I have to look forward to are my meager pension, an early grave, and hopefully the next episode of Doctor Who. Yes, I know, I know, I watch that sort of thing."
"I quite like Doctor Who. I like Matt Smith as the new Doctor, yeah."
"I myself have a bit of a soft spot for David Tennant. And whoever is said to come after Matt has run his course. I don't quite recall the actor's name. Old woman memory, not as sharp in certain things as I would like. You'll see when you get to my age."
The lady stops and gestures at a bland door, "Well, this is my stop. You still haven't told me who you're here to visit. Far be it from me to insert my huge nose into matters that aren't mine."
"Do you know a--a Duke and Kurtis?"
The lady lets out a harsh chuckle and looks over her shoulder, "Ah. Interesting. Those 2. They very much keep to themselves. Roommates, they claim to be. But, c'mon, I'm not 4 and I'm not stupid. They're only ever seen prancing about at night."
"Err, could you maybe tell me a bit more about them? If you're OK with that?"
The old lass waves a hand dismissively, "Oh, please. Don't be silly. Hmph. They certainly look like they could afford a better place, but people have their reasons for...staying here."
Cassandra's curiosity gets the better of her, "What reasons?"
The lady tuts, "Tsk. Reasons that are certainly not anyone else's blighted business. Listen, love, it's been a long day. I'd offer you a spot of tea, but my limbs and joints are uttering obscenities at me at the mere thought of hobbling over to the kitchen for a cuppa...and a chinwag."
Cassandra's expression softens, "So, this is goodbye, then?"
"Hm. Don't let this old bore keep you from whatever it is that you were meant to do tonight. And...be careful with Kurtis and Duke. They seem like nice chaps, but...you never know. I'll be seeing you, I presume?"
"Yeah. N--name's Cassandra, by the way."
"Martha." She turns around and finishes turning the key.
Cass calls out, "It was nice chatting with you, Martha! Bye! Sleep well!"
Martha merely nods and enters her home, "Hm. Yes. Bye, love. Stay safe."
The old mortal quietly closes her door behind her while Cassandra prepares herself for her meeting with the 2 Caitiff. She gulps, steadies her breathing, and rings their doorbell.
She can hear the muffled sound of their conversation coming to an abrupt stop. The faint music also comes to an end. A chair moves aside. Footsteps come closer.
A masculine voice calls out, "Who's that? If you're selling something, bugger right off and bother somebody else, mate!"
Cassandra clears her throat and answers, "Um...hiya? Kurtis? Duke? Me name's Cassandra. I'm a...uh...uh...Gregory sent me--"
Locks and deadbolts unlatch until the door creakily opens and a head pokes out. Kurtis looks at the visitor with his piercing gray eyes and hisses, "You're Gregory's Ghoul?"
"Yeah, who else would I be? Are you going to let me in or not?"
Kurtis narrows his eyes and asks, "Where's your Domitor?"
Cass answers, "He's not coming. As such, I have been fully authorized to act, speak, and negotiate on his behalf. So, let me in and we can get this thing going already."
Kurtis shakes his head, "Not without seeing proof of some kind. How do I know that you're who you say you are, hmm?"
The Caitiff looks to be in his 20s. He has no facial hair and is completely bald. A silver earring graces his right earlobe. His face is deathly pale and the bags under his eyes are quite pronounced. He is on the taller side, at least as far as Cassandra can tell.
Cass gulps and side-eyes the Clanless vampire, "W--what kind of proof are you looking for? I got me driver's license--"
"No. Only something that a supposed Ghoul would know, yeah? Something that only Greg's Ghoul would know."
"Oh..." Cass thinks back to a few moments which could possibly work.
Kurtis impatiently eyes her, "I'm waiting. If you don't give me something valid, then we're going to have ourselves a very unpleasant evening."
"Err...Gregory was a Civil Servant before his Embrace. And--and has he never spoken of me during his interactions with you lot??"
Kurtis smirks and nods, "That works, yes, your Domitor was a rather outstanding and upright Whitehall lad before his Embrace into the Clan of the Rose. Bravo, you've passed the test. I shall now allow you to enter our abode."
Cassandra sheepishly grins, "Th--thanks." She goes inside. Kurtis closes the door and locks it up tight behind him.
The Haven in question is quite well-decorated. Bead curtains here, a recliner over there, paintings of various sizes hanging from the walls, the whole shebang. The windows have been sealed with blackout film. Heavy curtains act as an extra precautionary measure.
The apartment's atmosphere is oddly warm, welcoming, and comforting- almost to a fault.
A young, racially ambiguous fellow approaches from the bathroom. His finger coils have been tied up into a sort of high ponytail. He wears a checkered sweater and a pair of ripped jeans. His dark-green eyes twinkle as he takes in Cassandra's form.
His thick and chapped lips move into a friendly smile, "Hello, Miss Cassandra, was it?"
Kurtis interjects, "This one's Greg's Ghoul. He barely spoke of her. That's Duke...my boyfriend."
Duke slowly nods his head up and down and flashes a "V" symbol with his fingers. He says, "Peace, sister."
She waves back at him, "Hiya. I am here in an official capacity on behalf of me Domitor. He owes you 2 and he now sees fit to give back in the form of information, assistance, and whatnot."
The 2 men exchange the briefest of looks with each other before nodding in agreement. Duke puts in, "Right, then. Please, sit down. Let's not stand around like morons all night, yeah?"
The group goes into the living room area. Some beanbags and bongos decorate the room. The air reeks of a familiar herbal scent. A hint of jasmine, lilies, and lavender can be detected beneath the smell of smoke.
Cassandra clears her throat, "Blimey, guys, you live in a pretty cool...Haven."
Duke chuckles briefly and throws himself on the nearest beanbag, "If only it was all so great as that, sister."
Cass raises her eyebrows, "Oh??"
Kurtis cuddles up with his boyfriend on the beanbag and holds him close. The pair look as if they're glued to each other.
Kurtis explains, "Our world is...a hostile one, Cassandra."
She snickers, "Oh, tell me about it. I spoke to a neighbor of yours while waiting for the only working elevator to arrive. You guys don't really need to remind me. I know all too bloody well what's what."
Duke nods his head along to his lover's words, "We're in danger of losing our home."
Cassandra wiggles on the large sofa opposite the lads and crosses her ankles. She tells them to explain their situation as best as they possibly can.
Kurtis clicks his tongue, "Well, that's not the only reason. Finding another Haven isn't the hard part. I--I 'ave a mate in Dover who's got some nice digs there, but..."
Duke sighs softly, "...we don't want to move just because someone tells us to. Look, let's not get Greg's gal all wrapped up in our messes. Kurt, hmm? Remember what we discussed?"
Kurtis concedes with a slight nod, "Right, right. But she's here, so we may as well explain everything."
Duke grips Kurtis' hand in his own and kisses the side of his forehead, "Fine. Cassandra, y--you don't mind...us..."
Cass interjects and tells them that it's all alright, "Oh, no, no, not at all. It's your...err...home, so go ahead and be all frisky and cuddly with each other."
Duke nods and asks his guest, "Are you sure?"
Kurtis gives his lover a slight nudge, "She already said that it's fine. Stop fussing and get on with it."
Duke points out, "Well, we don't want to make her uncomfortable."
Cassandra reassures the lads, "I'm not uncomfortable. Don't worry."
Kurtis frowns and asks her, "Ah, so you're 1 of those ladies who likes watching sweaty, oily men snog and stuff, eh?"
Duke's eyes widen in shock, "Kurt!"
Cassandra chuckles and plainly tells them, "I'm a lesbian meself. And no, I don't watch that sort of thing. I know what my interests, preferences, and inclinations are. You 2 are free to...carry on, though. Don't let me stop you."
Kurtis's expression softens, "Ah, how intriguing. As you can very much see, Duke and I are very much in love. Our vampiric nature, however, complicates certain matters..."
Duke snickers. Kurtis tickles him and goes on, "...yes, yes, laugh all you want, mate. I am simply saying that there is more to this story than what meets the eye around here."
Kurtis sharply exhales and continues, "By the standards of Kindred Society, we are still relatively young and inexperienced. And our nature as Caitiff only further complicates certain...matters. The Prince here doesn't give a rat's arse about the lot of us. Which is a damned shame."
Duke shakes his head, "The Prince of this city is--is just a child. Cut him some slack. Besides, what does he have to do with our current predicaments, hmm? Caitiff, regardless of where one is in the world, have been rejected or abandoned by their Sires, yeah? Kurt's own Sire is...dead."
Kurt puts in, "Yeah, like proper dead. Ashes and all. Never told me what Clan we belonged to. I--if any at all. Tch. And Duke's Sire? Well, who knows where she ran off to and why she didn't take her Childe with her."
Duke points out, "If she had, I wouldn't have met the love of my Unlife. I'd be somewhere else doing...things, maybe."
Kurtis chuckles and tells the Ghoul, "Yes, we met while out hunting. Territorial claims over feeding grounds are such a pain in the arse for us Caitiff. And that Tzimisce Sheriff loves pointing her sci-fi gun at our necks and giving us warnings about crossing some or the other precious borders."
Cassandra confesses, "Oh, yeah, I've seen her hand canon. It looks fuckin' gnarly, innit?"
Duke giggles, "The Welshwoman means well, despite what her hardened exterior would tell you. A--anyway, she let us off with a warning. But that is, of course, far beside the point. Let's not get too carried away from the original subject here."
Cassie leans forward and clasps her hands together, "Alright. Well, what do you need from me, exactly? I'm ready to help you out with whatever you need."
The Caitiff pair look to each other with a knowing look.
Duke's lower lip moves from side to side and he tells the Ghoul, "Let's not get ahead of ourselves, hmm? We have some important questions for YOU first."
Cassandra frowns a little and replies, "Ask away." She realizes that she is not in a position to dictate terms. As such, she lets them be in control for now. The Ghoul is not too bothered about it since she hopes that the outcome will still be satisfactory.
(And, hopefully, won't involve anything risky or downright dangerous).
Kurtis regards her with a curious gaze and says, "You've been a ghoul for what, years, now?"
"Since the late '90s. For what it's worth, I do know...quite a lot about Kindred Society. All the Clans, Banes, Bloodlines, cool stuff like that. I'm surprised that Greg hasn't mentioned me before."
Kurtis half-frowns at that, "Hmm, yes, we're just as surprised. Gregory has, for all his flaws, been kind to us. The both of us, actually." He pauses to glance at Duke. The 2 Caitiff hold hands tighter.
The other Freestyler proceeds, "It's actually quite fortuitous that you're 'ere instead of him, sister. Kurt?? Right?"
Kurt shrugs and studies the Ghoul, "Perhaps so. But we still don't know here as well as we'd like. Then again, our time- as well as our choices- is steadily running out."
Duke sucks some air in through his teeth, "I think we're jumping the gun, my darling. Let's just tell her what we intend to do, hmm?"
Kurtis huffs, "Fine. We intend to get married. Well, it's more of a Blood Wedding more than anything else; a quasi-ceremonial Blood-Bonding union between me and my beloved. We're not doing it for the politics or any such rubbish. This is solely for our love and our eternal love alone."
Duke confirms, "Yes. And now that you're here, we intend to carry it out tomorrow, circumstances permitting. Say, a quick detour, if you don't mind?"
Cassandra's eyes light up when she hears those words. She smiles brightly and quietly claps.
Duke smirks, "Rumors are flowing around about a quote-unquote 'winsome Toreador Ghoul' who brought Final Death upon a Frenzying Brujah Elder--"
Cassandra winces and answers, "Yeah, that was me. No, I--I didn't enjoy doing it! I nearly died that night! It was scary and I NEVER, EVER want to go through that again."
She sighs and shakes her head, "Anyway, yes. That was me. In me defense, he was a Wight. T--too far gone to save or ever recover from such a severe Frenzy."
Kurtis grunts, "Hmph. The strange thing is, Winston was supposed to officiate our little...err...what the 'ell do we even call this thing? It's certainly not an 'officiated marriage', yeah? Well, we'll just say...union, then. Eh?"
Duke shrugs and offers, "Union is fine. Anyway, the Brujah was supposed to oversee that vital portion, but then he just...stopped answering us a few nights ago. And we soon learned why that was. Rumors travel slow in these parts."
Cassandra winces sympathetically, "I'm sorry if I unintentionally caused you grief, then. D--do you 'ave anyone else to officiate?"
Duke chuckles and asks her, "Do you know any officiated ministers? Winston was one, in addition to him being quite an aficionado for all things art- now I see why he and Greg got along quite well. Hmm." He looks away with a noticeable sadness.
Cassandra mumbles, "Well, it was Gregory who was sort of responsible for Winston Frenzying like mad. He put a lot of pressure on him to get some painting, yeah? I--I don't know what else to tell you about that."
She feels a deep sense of regret soon after blurting out her Domitor's actions.
The 2 Caitiff seem to accept it. Kurtis sighs and tells her, "We're not asking YOU or your Domitor to officiate anything. No, we'll find someone else for that part- not like it even makes a huge difference, but still...no, we require help in other areas."
"Oh? Like?"
Duke cracks a smile and approvingly remarks, "Sister's eager to help. Good. I like that. Technically, the place that me and my boyfriend are inhabiting isn't...ours in the strictest of legal terms. Kurtis, would you like to explain?"
Kurt nudges his fellow Freestyler and clicks his tongue, "You're usually more convincing that I am."
Duke chuckles, "He works as a claims adjuster for a small insurance company. Night in and night out, the man I love has to decide if people's claims are...valid or not."
Kurtis folds his arms and throws in, "Yes, yes, I have a certain loathe for my job. And it's not just determining the validity of said claims, it's also deciding how much dosh to dole out and how much to keep to the company. My work is a constant reminder of how cruel life and Unlife can be."
Cass queries, "And what do you do, Duke?"
The other Freestyler responds, "I'm a multi-instrumentalist. Nothing so glamorous, don't jump out of your seat just yet and ask for an autograph. It's mostly on the streets. If I'm lucky, I get a gig at a club."
He gestures to the bongos and adds, "I'm good with that- I've...had a lot more practice than my mortal peers. Haha!"
Kurtis clears his throat.
Duke gets the cue and gets back on the topic at hand, "Right. He has to get to work. But that can wait for a few minutes. Speaking of, we are living in this flat on...borrowed time and fake IDs. Now, now, before you judge us, just understand that it's more complex than it appears."
"I--I won't judge you lot. I'm not 'ere to do shite like that, and I'm not that kind of person," Cassandra reassures them both.
Kurtis explains, "Technically, a 30-something Argie woman with handicaps is supposed to be residing in this flat--"
Duke grimaces.
Kurtis clicks his tongue out of annoyance and realizes his grave error, "Oh, right. Sorry, we don't say that sort of thing anymore. Well, it's not my fault for living among people who threw around such invectives with wild abandon. Argies--"
Duke lightly pats Kurtis on the thigh and corrects him, "The Falklands War is over. Sorry about that, sister."
"At least he's trying," Cass offers as a way of acknowledgment.
Kurtis dryly proceeds, "Well, as you can see, neither of us are...her. Heh. In this digital age, someone's bound to get sharpish and put the pieces together; we'd like to be out of harm's way BEFORE that can come to fruition. We're not taking any more risks than we've already taken."
Cassandra scratches her head, "So, you want help with...what? Packing and moving? The wedding? Something else entirely?"
Kurtis answers plainly, "Well, Gregory ought to be here, but you shall...suffice. I suppose we may as well get some use out of you."
Duke merely snickers.
Cassandra's face scrunches up into a scowl, "Oi!"
Duke simply tells her, "Now, now, you're just the Ghoul over here, sister. We're not going to blatantly mistreat you; we're not going to pamper you, either. After all we've done for your Domitor, he definitely owes us. And then we'll be even."
"What did you lads do for Greg?"
Kurtis glares at her, "Does the man tell you nothing? Tch. Well, if he withheld that sort of information from you, then I'm sure he had his reasons. Either way, I'm not surprised. Let's just say that we...helped him out, eh?" A sly-looking smile creeps onto his pale face.
Duke's patchy skin prickles. He tells his boyfriend, "Don't you say anything that's not strictly relevant, hmm?"
Kurt nods, "Yes, yes."
Cassandra's eyes narrow. Even now, she's already on the other task her Domitor had assigned to her: ascertaining the true Clan (if any) of both Duke and Kurtis. So far, she's crossed Setite (Ministry) off the list owing to the fact that the lighting in 'ere is bright, yet it causes no discomfort for either of the Caitiff.
That is, at least, as far as she can tell.
Cass asks herself, "Tremere, maybe??"
She decides to try her luck with a straightforward approach, "What Clan do you 2 truly belong to?"
Duke's shoulders shake slightly from a brief bout of laughter.
Kurtis joins in, "Oh, look at her! Hahahaha! Why, we're both Caitiff. CLANLESS. So much for your claims of knowing quite a lot about Kindred Society. Was that all just a puff of hot air to impress us, hmm?" He teases her with a smug smirk.
Cassandra feels embarrassed but tries not to let it get the better of her, "Well, err...sorry." Better to throw them off in the hopes of getting them to, maybe, lower their guard and reveal something about their true nature.
Duke notes, "It was just a silly question. Hmm? Sister?"
"Y--yeah. Just a silly question. If you lot say that you're Clanless, then you're...Clanless."
Kurtis rubs the base of his neck, "Help us with our Blood Wedding and we'll be considered even. That's it. No more, no less. Truth is, we're done with this place."
He looks at the paintings on the wall and nods over to them, "Your Domitor helped us secure those. It may fetch a pretty penny on less scrupulous places, but it's ours now. Not like we can sell them in our current state, eh?"
"Do you 'ave money troubles?"
Duke fixes her with a steely gaze, "Nearly everyone has money troubles these nights. All the more reason for us to abandon ship, as it were."
Cassandra's gaze is downcast, "I'm sorry to hear that. I was just talking to a neighbor of yours. Err...Martha."
Kurtis's smile is anything but genuine, "Ah, yes. Her. Heh."
Duke callously puts in, "Yes, we've both fed from her from time to time. Kurt uses his Disciplines to walk through her walls. He lets me inside and we simply take what we must- not a drop more. We're...'considerate' in that sense. And given her age and the fact that she lives all by herself, nobody would think twice if...something unfortunate were to happen to her."
Whoa. Yikes.
Cassandra feels a sudden chill in the room.
Kurtis's brows knit together, "What's the matter, eh? Supposed know-it-all of Kindred Society. This is what we are, this is what we do. Don't like it? Well, stop partaking of your Domitor's Vitae and see if you can survive the sudden withdrawal shocks. You can't judge us. Nobody here is judging us- well, they won't, anyway."
Duke's expression darkens, "We are just doing what we are impelled to do every night...for all eternity. And if we're caught or discovered by someone, so fucking what?"
"It's a matter of survival," Kurtis states plainly and nonchalantly, "We live in the shadows- in the margins- because we have to."
"I, for one, quite like shadows," Duke says as his dead eyes stare into the distance, "Because the shadows are safe."
Wow.
Cassandra gulps audibly and steels her nerves, "Err...OK. I'll--I'll help with your union and--and whatever else, yeah?"
Duke musters up a smile, "That would be most appreciated. Tomorrow night. Give us your number so we can keep in touch. Don't worry, we won't exchange sensitive information- just basics."
Cassie gives them her contact information.
Kurtis gives her a missed call and chuckles at her Blackberry phone, "Blimey, I remember that model. You should get a new one, luv. Almost everyone and their dog is switching over to touchscreens these nights. All the rage. Heh."
(How does the Ghoul determine what Clan these 2 are of? She knows more than enough to gauge certain...telltale signs. But she has no concrete proof. And she doesn't want to go back to her Domitor with a blank slate. Or worse, flimsy assumptions).
Cassandra politely excuses herself and asks where the loo is. Duke languidly gestures down the hall, "End of it. Can't miss it. Won't miss it."
Kurtis warns her, "No snooping. Not like it matters since we'll be moving out soon and all that, but still...no snooping."
Cass awkwardly titters, "Oh, don't worry. I--I just need to--err, yeah, y'know?"
Duke quietly giggles as he hears her footsteps fade into the hallway. He looks at his lover and asks, "Think we can trust her?"
"Trust is a hard thing to come by in our world. It's earned. And even then, there's no guarantee that it won't be lost...or traded away at a moment's notice. I suppose we can trust her. She's Gregory's Ghoul, after all."
"Hmm. And knowing that one, she's probably going to tell him everything we told her this evening."
"Let her. Once we're out of this city, it won't really matter anymore. I'm going to be late for work but fuck it. I just want to be here and ensure that she won't try to pull a fast one on us."
Duke snuggles up closer to Kurt and kisses him on the neck. Kurtis happily moans and strokes his boyfriend's hair.
The sounds of a toilet being flushed echo throughout the flat. Cassandra exits with a foul grimace plastered on her face.
Kurtis nearly bursts out laughing upon seeing her, "Ah! Hahahaha! You saw it, huh?"
Cassandra maintains her grimace when asking, "What the fuck was that?!"
Duke explains, "Mold. All the more reason to get the bloody 'ell out of here."
Cass wildly gesticulates and asks, "Well, well, well...why haven't you called someone to fix it? It's rancid! D--did I inhale any mold spores? Should I be worried about infections or some shite? Fuck!" She covers her mouth and nose in alarm.
Duke clicks his tongue, "It has no effect on us, anyway." The callousness and indifference that he exhibits is rather unsettling to the young woman.
The mold in that bathroom looked like the Wyrm itself vomited all over the walls near the shower and subsequently spawned more mold spores- it was that feckin' bad. Even now, Cass cannot get the horrific visual of those sickening blobs out of her mind.
Anyways, the next few minutes go by wherein the trio talk about specifics- the lads appreciate the lass offering a helping hand for tomorrow's (impromptu) union ceremony. The Ghoul, for her part, is excited to help and is genuinely happy for the 2 of them, regardless of her own misgivings.
Soon, Cassandra leaves with a quick goodbye. Kurt will text her when the venue has been decided upon, but it WILL most certainly be happening tomorrow night- that much is definitely settled and assured.
And with the way she's feeling right now, the young woman's eagerness to help is genuine- no tricks or anything like that. Still, she's not quite done just yet.
The evening sky above is far from clear. There's a chilly wind that's sweeping through the area and tickling her neck and face.
Cassandra still has to find out what Clan these 2 men TRULY belong to. The Ghoul simply can't afford to head back to her Domitor without being thorough. It's going to be hella risky, but this is her only chance.
After the wedding, they're gonna move out and leave behind not very many traces of themselves. What better time than tonight?
Cassandra stares at her reflection in the rearview mirror of her Lexus and asks, "Right? I--I 'ave to do it tonight, right?"
She lets out a sigh and starts the car. She takes note of the time, which is just a couple minutes past 7:00 PM.
Kurtis gets on a sports motorbike, puts on a bulky helmet, kicks the bike into gear, and zooms past the Toreador Ghoul. After about a few seconds, Duke exits. He's wearing a bulky raincoat over himself- complete with hoodie- and a pair of thick boots.
Decisions, decisions.
Duke walks to the closest bus stop and waits. He pulls out his phone and taps on it a few times. A wistful smile forms on his patchy face as he looks at something or the other. The glow of the screen illuminates him in an eerie sort of manner.
Cassandra makes up her mind and follows Kurtis on his bike. She decides to follow after Duke if Kurt's trail leads to nowhere. She is sure to keep a fair distance between her Lexus and Kurtis.
After about 30 minutes, Kurtis slows down at a traffic light. When it turns red, the mad lad throttles his engine and crazily zooms off.
Cassandra gasps as a few passing cars screech to an abrupt halt. Thankfully, nobody gets hit (or hurt, or worse). She curses and wonders out loud, "Could he be a Ravnos, then?? Brujah? Grrr, it's so hard to figure it all out!"
She hits the gas pedal and drives off when the light finally turns green.
The insurance company in question is housed in the blandest of buildings. The structure of glass and steel is surrounded by a parking lot filled to the brim with motor vehicles from bulky SUVs to demure mopeds.
Cassandra stops and squints as she sees Kurtis parking his ride at a reserved spot near the front doors. He enters the building and doesn't even so much as glance back as he removes his helmet.
This could take a while. The building is huge and has multiple floors. And caution is of the essence here, so she must not be rash in this decision lest she be found out.
Or worse.
She finds a nearby corner and parks her Lexus there. The rain has, for the time being, let up- but there are clouds looming overhead. Cassandra grins and takes that as a good(ish) omen; she strides into the bright lobby and blinks a couple of times.
Kurtis has his back to her. He jabs a gloved finger at the elevator button and impatiently taps his foot on the shiny floors. His helmet is tucked under his arm.
Cassandra yawns and pretends to browse a notice board near the front. A shelf full of the most painfully generic brochures grabs her attention. There are a lot of smaller enterprises within this building!
Corporate consultancy firms, courier services, and law firms (personal injuries, mainly) seem to make up most of the mix, alongside a couple of insurance firms where Kurt might work at.
Cassandra's fingers are twitching. She snatches the insurance-adjacent brochures and peruses through their contents with faked enthusiasm and a nonexistent hunger for insurance.
"Cor blimey, almost as mundane as me own job! Haha!"
The disinterested, potbellied security guard stares at his phone while occasionally shuffling around on the pitifully small stool (no backrest) that has been placed near the front door.
Cass could always pose as someone who wishes to buy insurance, but that might arouse Kurtis's suspicions- assuming, of course, that he sees her in the first place. Otherwise, it might draw some unwanted attention, especially if he finds out.
Talking to any of his fellow employees could yield some useful information on what he's like and all, but again, it's risky and there are no guarantees that anything useful will be gleaned.
After all, even the Wretched have to uphold the Masquerade.
And so, she's left with very little options as time gradually ticks away. And the analogue clocks mounted all over the wall (showing different time zones) don't help matters.
Cassandra approaches the guard and gingerly asks him, "Hiya. Uh...I got a mate of mine who works 'ere and he left something of his. I need to give it to him. Uhm...Kurtis. Insurance...company. Which one is it??"
The baggy-eyed guard stares at her. He presses the lock button on his Android phone (he was playing a game) and clears his throat. With the utmost boredom and indifference, he answers, "Summerton Insurance LLC. 12th floor. Can't miss it. And tell him that he owes me for last time's dart game, alright?"
Cassandra feigns surprise, "Oooh, he works with Summerton Insurance?! I always thought it was G-Chester Insurance! But that's Kurt for you, am I right?"
"Hmm."
The office of Summerton Insurance is just like the rest of the place- bland and exceedingly bright. But the carpeted flooring is nice, and the air-conditioning seems to be in good working order.
Kurtis, meanwhile, is talking with 1 of the receptionists. Cassandra hides behind a corner and keeps watch. She peers from around it once in a while, just to confirm that Kurtis is still there and hasn't turned invisible and snuck up on her.
After 3 agonizingly boring minutes, Kurtis excuses himself. Cass gasps and presses her back against the wall and stays put. Her heartbeat is elevated, and it feels as if it's going to pop out of her chest. She gets her breathing under control and exhales erratically.
Kurtis walks deeper into the office space and grabs a few folders. He opens them, puts on what look like reading glasses, and rapidly skims through their contents. His lips move slightly but Cass can't hear what he's saying- not that it really matters, anyway.
A random person in a suit approaches Kurtis and informs him of something or the other. They both disappear behind a set of frosted glass double-doors.
Cassandra's face scrunches up into a quizzical look, "What to do, what to do...?"
"OI!" a lady's shrill voice bellows behind her, "WHAT ARE YOU DOING 'ERE?"
Cassandra yelps and turns around to see a woman in a matching suit and skirt. Her updo looks impeccable, and her stilettos leave impressions on the carpeted flooring.
In an attempt to save herself, the Toreador Ghoul blurts out, "I'm...I'm just waiting for Kurtis..."
The lady puts a hand on her hip and narrows her eyes. She studies the trembling Ghoul from top to bottom, "Why? What's the nature of your visit?"
"Err...I'm a mate of his. I 'ave something that belongs to him."
She holds out her hand, "Give it to me and I will give it to him."
"I don't think so, no. Who are you, anyway?"
The lady seems slighted by such a blunt and brusque question. She indignantly responds, "Why, I'm his boss! Now, give whatever it is that you have to me and then LEAVE."
"Sorry, luv. I--I--this is something personal, yeah?"
The boss lady huffs a sigh and walks past Cassandra, not even caring that she bumped into her in the process, "Well, then...I'll fetch him for you. Tch. The nerve of some people."
The double-doors open and Kurtis emerges. His neutral expression is instantly replaced by a scowl when he sees who his boss is pointing to. He shoots the Ghoul a dirty look before telling her to follow him.
Cassandra can't help but wonder a few things, mainly trying to figure out what Clan he really belongs to. The obvious ones are crossed off the list, as it were. But that STILL leaves a wide spectrum of possibilities, and not all of them are very straightforward, either.
Kurtis ushers her into a small room, pulls the blinds, and closes the door shut. He folds his arms and quirks an eyebrow, "Well? What the fuck are you doing here and what do you want??"
Cassandra winces, "I...want to buy insurance?"
Kurtis scoffs, "Nice try, luv. Are you following me? And don't even think about lying to me."
"Err...what Disciplines do you specialize in?"
"Huh?"
"Well, you mentioned being able to...walk through walls. That's no easy feat."
"It's an Amalgam of Obfuscate and Protean. Took me a good, long while to master it. Why? Are you interested?"
(The Setites are the only ones who 'ave access to that combo, but it's already been clearly established that Kurtis is not a Follower of Set).
Cassandra gulps and chuckles nervously, "I--I'm just a very curious lass. Sometimes, I can't help it! 'Ave you ever tried...err...figuring out what Clan you may truly belong to?"
Kurtis leans closer to her, "I don't give a single shit about the whole Clan thing. As far as anyone is concerned, I am a Caitiff. Unbound."
Cass pushes, "Well, you seem quite cross with me. Almost like a--a Brujah--"
Kurtis steps forward and grabs her by the arm. He hisses and reveals his pointy fangs, "Listen here, I am a Caitiff. Through and through. I have come to terms with it. I accept- fully- what I am. And no, I don't have the boiling urge to start bloody fights or any other stupidity like that."
Cassandra attempts to wiggle out of his preternatural (and cold) grip, "Tremere??"
He takes his hands off of her, "Ugh! Heavens no! Do I look like some sort of esoteric spellcaster to you? Besides, I'm an atheist- that whole supernatural thing...eh."
"Banu Haqim?"
"Good Lord, I work as a claims adjuster in an insurance company. So, my sense of justice is somewhat...warped. Heh. Hazards of the job, eh?"
"Ravnos?"
"Given that I've been living in the same place for so long, I'd be ashes by now, wouldn't I?"
Cassandra scratches her neck, "Err...Hecata?"
Kurtis glowers at her, "Are we going to check items off a list? Fuck's sake, I have work to get back to. There's a bonus with my name clearly written all over it if I manage to get this sorted. And you're wasting my time. My interest in death is as high as my interest in spiritual and religious matters. Nada, zilch, nil, zero!"
Cassandra looks at his eyes and thinks to herself, "Malkavian?"
He points a finger at her and declares, "And no, I'm not Ventrue, either. I need money, sure, but it doesn't mean that I love it- or that it rules over me."
She asks with a sly smirk, "Are you certain?"
He clicks his tongue and sighs heavily, "Please...just go. I'll text you about tomorrow night. OK? It's been lovely having you accost me at my place of work, but this has got to stop. Hmm?" He fixes her with a piercing gaze.
Cassandra relents, "OK. OK. Fine. Err...I am actually, like, a huge music fan. Where would Duke be performing? I'm always looking for new err...auditory experiences." She hopes that it sounded sincere and convincing enough.
Kurtis flatly responds, "Eastfield Road. Right near the underground station. Hard to miss. And, please, leave my boyfriend alone. Watch him, yes, cheer him on, by all means...but don't pester him. 'Specially not during performances. And if I find out that you've bothered him--"
Cassandra's eyes widen to an alarming degree. She holds her hands up and steps back slightly, "OK, OK! I--I won't! I've already to promised to help you, innit? So...no reason for you to worry, yeah?"
Kurtis holds the door open for her, "Off you go, then. I'll see you when I see you. Which, hopefully, isn't tonight. Again. Hm."
She exits, albeit rather slowly. When the door shuts with a quiet click, the Toreador Ghoul breathes out a huge sigh of relief and makes her way back to her Lexus.
To Eastfield Road!
Buskers take up most of the wide sidewalk. This is a very busy and bustling part of the city. The lights are reflected off of the many puddles of water left over by the rainfall. 2 young women (appearing to be students of some sort) dance on one of the corners, while an old man plays a jazz tune on a trumpet.
As Kurt had (curtly) said, his dearly beloved is performing with a group near the entrance to the underground station. The performers in question are sure to leave a wide berth in order to allow the passersby ample opportunity to toss them some money in their open cases.
Duke is dressed plainly and is strumming a guitar while a harmonica rests around his neck. His bandmates are equally drab, but they do appear to be having fun- judging from their smiling expressions and enthusiastic movements.
The music in question is lively and decently done. It's hard not to feel enticed by it all, although there are a few people who walk past Duke and his peeps without sparing them even a glance.
Toddlers in skull caps are guided by parents to drop coin after coin in their cases. A couple of students eat rice and curry from plastic bowls as they observe the band from afar. Some have their phones out and are recording.
Cassandra cranes her neck and sees that Duke's image on the recording looks...normal. So, she could safely rule out the Lasombra. Members of the Night Clan (owing to their Clan's Bane of Distorted Image) would usually look quite eerie on any recording devices or cams and the like.
Well, that still leaves a lot more Clans to cross out of the list- and she's going to do just that. She maintains a safe distance, claps every now and then, and joins in on the whooping, cheering, and whistling whenever the others do so.
The Ghoul makes sure to keep track of all the money that's going in those open cases! Not like anyone is going to steal- plenty of people aren't usually that petty and greedy.
Duke plays his 2 instruments in an expert manner. His playing has improved quite considerably ever since he was Embraced.
Cass ventures a guess and strokes her chin contemplatively, "Could he be a Toreador? Then, why doesn't he link up with the rest of them in this city??"
Her tummy grumbles and she grunts, "Grr, it doesn't make any bloody sense! Blimey, I'm hungry..."
Cass mills around and ignores her hunger. The people 'round her talk about the performance, others discuss mundane and banal things- some of it goes in 1 ear and out the other. She tunes into conversations about the performers and doesn't find out anything worthwhile.
After a few more minutes, the group wraps up. Earnings are divided. The rain has stopped for quite a wee while at this point, but it may return with a vengeance soon- judging from the cloud formations up above.
Duke's cheeks look a little gaunt. The rest of the crew pile into a tiny van and drive off after saying their goodbyes. But Duke stays behind. His dead eyes survey the crowds as his head moves slowly from left to right.
Cassandra shuffles behind a large man and she cranes her neck to see a certain predatory look in his eyes! Her head whips this way and that as Duke licks his lips. He clutches his instrument case tightly. His feet carry him further down the street and towards the alleyway nearby.
He's going to feed!
Cassandra slowly follows after him, occasionally glancing over her shoulder to ensure that nobody else is following her. It would be mighty strange if that were the case!
Duke manages to find a tall lass in fishnet stockings and a cropped leather jacket. His fangs flash under the dull streetlight as he pushes her neck aside and viciously chomps on her jugular. She attempts to scream, but he covers her mouth with his cold, cold hand.
The lady's eyes glaze over as Duke drains her vital fluids. Cassandra ducks behind a rubbish bin and keeps a close eye on them both. She gasps when she notices how limp the lady's body looks and how her head hangs back.
Duke, however, lets her go. His fangs glisten with her blood. He deftly licks the puncture wounds on her neck shut and lets her still-breathing (thankfully) body slump to the ground. After a few seconds of staring at the unconscious lass, black vapors start to ooze from his mouth and nostrils.
His entire face is engulfed by it until, finally, his shadow elongates. Cassandra blinks rapidly and gapes at what she has witnessed.
She tells herself, "But...but--but...! It can't be! He can't be! Lasombra?!"
(That would be the only logical explanation, considering the Lasombra Clan's relations to shadows and all things remotely shadowy).
Duke turns and walks back to the streets. He raises his chin and calmly whistles while carrying the instrument case in 1 hand.
Cassandra crouches next to the sleeping lady and checks for a pulse. She sighs and says softly, "You got lucky. S--sorry." She quickly leaves before the victim can awaken.
Duke enters a pub across the street from the underground station.
The black vapors could also be a sign of another Clan entirely. Maybe overmuch Diablerie- which would point to the Banu Haqim Clan, perhaps? Some kind of Tremere Blood Sorcery ritual gone horribly awry??
Cassandra keeps a cautious distance and waits till Duke exits the pub. While he's still inside, she draws on her insight into Kindred and the deeper meanings of their very existence to try and figure out and piece certain things together.
When he exits, she snaps out of her contemplative state. Duke is holding a bottle wrapped in a brown paper- definitely NOT whiskey! His steps are a tad unsteady, and the bottle seems to weigh quite a bit.
Cassandra follows him on foot. He walks for a few blocks, turns, and goes down an alley. There's nobody around, really, and so the Ghoul takes this chance to observe him- she's not that very keen on approaching him for a chinwag and a possible confrontation. Not now. Not like this.
Not when she is not privy to the whole picture of who she's dealing with. And, besides, she still hasn't confirmed anything yet!
Duke's shadow grows longer and wider- much longer than what's humanly possible. The black vapors return. This time, they envelop him.
When Cassandra catches up, she stops short at the end of the alley, and her jaw hangs open in sheer disbelief. The shadow itself expands until most of the area is practically shrouded in it.
The Toreador Ghoul swallows and strains to see into the inky blackness. Yet, she feels it peering back at her. She shudders.
"What the actual fuck..."
Not wishing to spend another moment here, the shivering Ghoul turns on her heel and runs as fast as her feet will permit her. The adrenaline keeps her mind sharp, and her focus keenly locked onto the path ahead. Tunnel vision kicks in- everything else is nothing but a blurry and indiscernible mass.
It's only when she's finally back in the safety of her Lexus that she calms down and exhales shakily. She chews her lip, muttering to herself, "What was that?!"
Cassandra's chest rises and falls with every labored breath. Her palms feel clammy. The image of the shadows and black vapors keep popping into her head- the very thought of them sends shivers up and down her spine.
She reasons, "If he's Lasombra, then...he should be 'aving a Distorted Image. But he didn't. I saw him being recorded and all! Wait..." She snaps her fingers a few times and tries to bring to recollection the finer details about the aforementioned Clan.
She recalls a brief mention of them having a variation of their Clan Bane. Some of them could have what she was taught was called "Callousness". Their Humanity becomes harder to hold on to as their attitudes and preferences tend to skew away from the (accepted) ways of the living.
And, all things considered, Duke was behaving and speaking quite...Callously tonight. Especially when casually mentioning how he and his boyfriend routinely feed from Martha.
Moreover, the way he bit into fishnets lass and fed so viciously...well, there is definitely something about him that's...different. Still, it is a rather threadbare theory.
The shadows that enveloped Duke, however, cannot be hand-waved away. THAT alone seems plausible enough to conclude that he is in fact a Lasombra. A rare sort, mayhaps?
Cassandra blows a harsh raspberry and starts her car. The engine of the secondhand Lexus purrs to life and the tires roll forward. She drives and thinks about what she's going to report to her Domitor.
After parking the car, Cassandra heads up to Greg's Haven. After calling out a few times, she realizes that he is not at home.
"Hmph. Just me luck," she mumbles whilst kicking the ground and pacing around.
Cass goes back to her own home, flops down on the couch, and allows the plush cushions to absorb her form. She absently trills her lips and half-sings some Nicola Green tunes (she's still sad that her fave had to abruptly depart the city so soon).
Eventually, she gets sleepy. Her eyelids droop. But she's roused by a knock on her door. She grunts and gets up, wondering who it could be this time.
Gregory stands outside and has that ever-so-neutral expression plastered all over his face. He incredulously asks, "Back so soon? Did you have the opportunity to meet with them? What were they like? How did they treat you?"
Cassandra runs her hand through her brown hair and sighs heavily, "I'll meet you at--at your place. Gimme a few minutes to--to freshen up, yeah?"
The Toreador equably says, "As you wish." He inclines his head slightly and saunters back to his abode.
After washing her face and hands, she blows her nose and wipes the tears from the corners of her eyes. She splashes even more water on her face, rinses her mouth out, and gives herself a once-over in the mirror.
If there are Lasombra in this Domain, then what Sect do they pledge their allegiances to? Camarilla or Sabbat? After all, the Lasombra are a founding Clan of the Sabbat.
And Cass has heard things about those buggers. Vague rumors and whispers, mind, but scary enough to put even a seasoned and (somewhat) jaded Kindred like Gregory on edge. Needless to say, neither of them fucks with the Sabbat.
Gregory patiently waits for his retainer to join him in his Haven. He throws his head back and clasps his hands on top of his stomach while forcing deep, controlled breaths through lifeless lungs.
His ears pick up on Cassandra's footsteps and he calls out, "It's open!"
Cassandra timidly enters her immortal master's dwelling place and sits opposite him. She looks around and sees that nothing has been moved or shifted from its original position. The abstract art pieces that hang on the wall catch her eye more than a few times, however.
Gregory questions, "Well? Report?"
Cassandra exhales softly and nods, "Y--yeah. Kurtis is--is definitely a true Caitiff. As for Duke, cor blimey, where do I even start with--with him?? Gregory?"
Gregory quirks an eyebrow, "You seem...frightened. What bothers you now?"
"Why do you need this information, anyway?"
"To pass it onto a...contact of mine. You needn't know any more than that."
She bites her lower lip, "You'll be mad if I tell you...because I know how much you--you dislike that particular Clan. Almost more than you dislike Wales. Heh."
Gregory orders her, "Before we get to that, tell me what they asked of...us."
Cassandra scratches her arm and bows her head slightly. She goes on to give her Domitor the full account of what went down earlier. His brow furrows and his mouth twists into a grimace every now and then, but he doesn't say anything until the end.
Greg remarks, "Well, I am happy for them."
"So, y--you'll come to the wedding tomorrow night?"
"If I can make it--"
Cassandra protests, "Aw, c'mon! Where are you always running off to anyways?! I reckon that this little marriage...err...ceremony is worth it. If--if nothing else, at least I can be sure to tell Kurtis that his hubby-to-be is a Lasombra!"
Gregory points out, "I doubt that such a fact- inconvenient as it may be- would get in the way of true love. And the Bond of Blood that they shall share in for all eternity. Or however long their love for each other will last. Hm. Best wishes to them, regardless."
"So, you're coming with tomorrow, right?" More of a statement than a command, how ironic considering that it's usually the other way around!
Gregory flatly tells his Ghoul, "IF I can make it. Believe it or not, but I am actually quite occupied with many other matters at the moment."
Cassandra whines, "Well, bloody 'ell, tell me what they are already! Maybe I could help you out, yeah?"
"As much as I appreciate your eagerness to aid me, these are simply things that I alone can see to through the very end."
She grumbles, "Fine...suit yourself, then."
He lifts his chin, "But I still very much need you for my other tasks. As it is, you have proven yourself to be...exemplary at what I have tasked you with. So far, that is."
Cassandra's hazel eyes light up at the sudden compliment, "Y--you really think so?? Well, thank you."
"Hmm. Don't mention it. You're certain that Duke is...Lasombra."
The very name of that Clan inspires feelings of disgust (and partial dread) in the Toreador. It's not openly apparent on his countenance, though- he has decent control over his emotions and reactions, after all.
Cassie inquires, "Why don't you like 'em, anyway?"
Gregory dryly tells her, "You'll find out when it's time. It's getting late and you look...tired. Go, now, rest, drive, take a walk, or do whatever it is that you usually do to pass the time. I won't require anything from you at the moment. Thank you."
Cass presses her lips into a thin line, stands up, and sashays out of her master's Haven. The door gently shuts behind her, and Gregory lets out a heavy sigh. He rubs his forehead with the tips of his icy fingers and mutters vaguely.
He very much dislikes the fact that there are Lasombra here! Here, in bloody Gloughchester!
Then again, Kurtis and Duke are leaving soon after they get married and all, so maybe this will all blow over soon. And maybe, just maybe, he will allow his Ghoul to live in blissful ignorance for a little while...longer.
She doesn't know things about his past. And he doesn't know certain things about hers either. But they do trust each other to a reasonable degree. After all, she is Bound- by Blood- to him.
And the former Civil Servant would never do anything that could potentially endanger or jeopardize her loyalty, let alone endanger her.
It's the least that Gregory could do, really, and the most that he should be able to do under the trying circumstances that now finds himself engulfed and entangled in.
The Toreador's lips quiver and he spots the familiar outline of the Aapilu through his floor-to-ceiling glass windows. He stares at it before his dead blue eyes drift up to the night sky. He thinks and ponders and contemplates and muses and ruminates about many things, including the kind of future that lies in wait for Cassandra and himself.
All the while, the Aapilu's 5 eyes burrow into Gregory (he turned away from it). It drags its fingers across the glass window, leaving slimy trails on the surface. It cocks its head to the side and doesn't stop watching.
Soon enough, Gregory's ears are tickled with the creature's clicking noises.
The anguished Artisan freezes in his spot and dares to not look directly into the mouthless being's eyes. He feels the fine hairs on his forearms stand up, and a wave of revulsion sweeps throughout his Unliving being.
He still has some things to see to at this dark hour of the night. He puts on a coat and heads out of his Haven. He passes by his Ghoul's cozy home and hears the faint echoes of the TV.
Inside said cabin, the crackles of the fireplace add some ambience to the scene. Cassandra watches some old-timey comedy show but switches it off with a foul grimace when it gets a little too crappy (and downright offensive and tasteless) for her liking.
Like so many "comedy" shows of the past few decades, it hasn't aged quite well and the constant punching down (by portraying working class people as lazy, stupid, uncouth, vulgar, and brutish) grates on her nerves.
Even the newer ones repeat the same pattern of misanthropy and formulaic reliance on shopworn tropes- the deadbeat father, the trashy slag with garish clothing choices, the flamboyant gay man, the fucking army veteran, and oh dear...the nasty ethnic stereotypes all in the name of 'aving a laugh.
Whatever happened to punching up, speaking truth to power, and defying the status quo?! Whatever happened to trying to say something...even remotely meaningful?
Cassandra switches to some David Attenborough documentary and relaxes, feeling a little better after she's done ranting to herself and nobody else. Ah, such a calming voice and there is indeed much to be learned from these brilliant and timeless works!
In good time, the Ghoul turns off the telly and dozes off. Her eyelids grown heavy and flutter shut as her breath evens out. She pulls the blanket over her body and falls asleep on the couch itself.
Her loud snoring soon fills the silence within the small home. Thankfully, she put out the fire in her fireplace before nodding off.
While she sleeps, the greenshank bird from earlier in the morning sits on a windowsill of her cabin. Its beady eyes stare straight at her before it chirps and flies away.
Something about that birdie is just...odd, off, strange, and unusual.
So much for Cassie getting an uninterrupted goodnight's sleep...
Sven, the Baali rockstar, approaches the helplessly frozen Ghoul. Their shared surroundings are decidedly surreal, with all sorts of things that don't make quite sense and float around in an indeterminate mass in the background.
Painful moans occasionally permeate the air, but the immortal rockstar pays them no heed.
He has a half-smirk playing on his charming lips as his eyes latch onto the lady in front of him. He rubs his palms together and begins, "Carla's doing fine, by the way. Tell Gregory that she says, 'Hello'. OK? OK. My...buddies paid me a visit. Don't ask, but they weren't the bipedal ones, so...yeah, it was a blast."
Sven spreads his arms out and chuckles heartily, "They showed me some pretty fucked-up shit about your...past. And I dunno if I wanna reveal it you. Ever. For what it's worth, I am sorry about your loss."
It seems oddly...heartfelt, if nothing else.
The Baali shakes his head and sighs heavily, "At least your father loved you and took good care of you after what happened. If only my dad was half the man that he was..." He trails off as certain painful memories bubble up from the deepest recesses of his mind.
Some tears of blood flow out of his eyes as he continues, "Yeah, my dad was the sheriff of this nothing small town that wasn't even incorporated. Mortal sheriff. Not Kindred Sheriff, mind you. He...was the total opposite of your father and I do fucking mean the total opposite."
Cassandra can't move and she barely breathes as her eyes remain focused on the Baali in front of her.
He shudders a little and proceeds, "I was just a--a child, Cassandra. A kid. While you built ships in a bottle with your dad, mine beat me, abused me, and did so many...horrible things that I still cannot find the words to describe how I felt and--and still feel about it."
He uses the back of his hand to wipe his bloodstained face and goes on, "He was a cop, so he got away with it all. A beloved pillar of his joke of a community. They swooned over him. Those were different times back then, y'know? VERY different times. You could really get away with a lotta stuff that you can't nowadays, and I'm glad for that. Sorta."
Out of nowhere, the Demon Worshipper produces an antique gold badge, but with sharpened edges and some interesting little details on it. Some kind of sheriff's star, judging by its shape and overall look of it.
He gazes at it with an inscrutable expression asserting itself all over his visage. For a moment, he contemplates on whether he should crush it or put it somewhere where he will never find it ever again.
(And with the Umbroods that he knows, he most certainly can disappear certain things...and people, should he so wish it).
After some thinking and a bit more blinking away the sanguine tears, he pockets the item and rubs the base of his neck, "It was a bad, crappy home and family life, Cassie. My mother died giving birth to me. I was the reason that she died."
He shakily adds, "And, oh boy...did my father always remind me of that inconvenient little fact whenever I stepped outta line. Which was pretty much all the time. As you can see, we're...kinda alike, you and I. Putting aside the dissimilarities, of course. You know, deep down, what I'm saying. Don't you??"
A tear- clear and warm- trickles down the Ghoul's left cheek. Another one rolls down her right one.
Sven tries to smile and says, "I don't know why I'm telling you all this. Y--you're not my goddamn therapist. Look, I gotta go. And...yeah, that guy is a--a Lasombra; I'd know them anywhere. Don't ask how I know. He's got crappy guitar skills. But he plays a mean harmonica, I'll give him that!"
As he takes his leave, he stops and turns to face the stunned Ghoul 1 last time.
The Baali asserts, "They won't find me. And we're gonna keep seeing more of each other. OK, it's time for me to get lost. Ciao! See ya on the flipside."
He puts his arms over his chest, shuts his eyes, and casually freefalls. The void engulfs him and he disappears from the dreamscape entirely. A gaping maw opens up beneath Cassandra's feet and yanks her downwards like a vacuum cleaner sucking up dust.
The Ghoul's eyes snap wide open and she gasps audibly. Her heart pounds within the confines of her chest and the blood rushes through her body at a speed she has never known before.
Outside, the rays of the sun peek through the windows, and the day is officially upon the world once more. The Kindred in this part of the little blue (and green) ball are undoubtedly fast in the throes of their day-long slumber by now.
Cassandra sits up and pinches her arm a few times. She winces and shakes her head rapidly, as if doing so could somehow purge her mind of the bizarre encounter.
What Sven mentioned...parts of it resonated with her. Cass pulls the blanket off of her and goes to a photograph that she has on the mantle. She lovingly stares at it while running a finger over the frame.
The greenshank bird is back. It gets her attention by pecking its beak on the window. It makes more sounds and keeps hopping up and down in place, almost impatiently.
"Cor blimey, you...again? It is you, innit?? What do you want now? I don't 'ave any bird food and I--I don't want any pets, yeah?"
The bird regards her with an intense yet oddly gentle gaze. It tilts its head from side to side and hops around, making sweet noises every now and then. Cassandra sighs and shakes her head. She throws herself back on the couch and checks her phone.
A text message with the address for tonight's wedding ceremony is there waiting for her. Cass sets the Blackberry phone aside and pulls the blanket back on top of her. She closes her eyes and hopes to get some more shut eye.
For today, she elects to sleep in. No going out, nothing. Just sleep. She's going to need the energy for tonight's eventful events!
The morning goes by in a blur of sleep, bathing, watching telly, eating snacks, drinking tea, and reading some books- fiction and non-fiction alike. Texts are sent to Amy, but no reply is given as of yet.
Her afternoon activities are interrupted by the greenshank bird paying her a visit. This time, it has the chutzpah to fly into her home! She slams the door behind her and fumes, "Oi!"
The bird casually swoops about, perches itself on a nearby cabinet, and stares at her intently.
"Bugger off! You're rude!"
The bird flies over to the mantle and looks at the same photograph that Cass had wistfully looked at earlier in the morning. Cassandra's breath hitches and she freezes up once again, as if struck by lightning.
The bird's beak pecks on the framed picture and it makes several noises. The Ghoul's face contorts in confusion and anger. She growls and shoos the avian creature away.
"Shoo! Shoo! OUT! OUT!"
Cassandra snatches the picture and holds it close to her chest. Tears begin to flow freely, and she furiously blinks them away, cursing and groaning as she does so. She gives the framed photo of her parents a little kiss and wipes her face.
She mutters to herself, "That little bastard...tr--trying to fuck with--with--" Further words are lost and incoherent as her emotions overpower her speech faculties.
The picture in question was taken long before Cassandra was born. It's black and white and shows the Ghoul's parents smiling right at the camera while having an arm around each other's waists. They have a genuine look of pure joy on their faces and seem like a truly loving couple.
Cassandra clutches the photograph tightly and sighs softly. She holds it close to her heart and pulls the blanket over her. She dozes off, hoping that Sven won't try to invade her dreams.
And he doesn't. For this afternoon, at least.
The sun rises, so it must also set. The darkness slowly envelops the land as the moon and stars appear on the great sky above. The pitter-patter of the ceaseless rain continues to fall onto the ground and whatever people might be outside at this hour.
A gloomy mist rolls into the city of Gloughchester, England. The very air carries a slight sense of foreboding, although it's difficult to determine whether such a feeling is justified or merely imagined.
There is no time quite like the present!
Since it is a (sort of) wedding tonight, Cassandra surmises that a better attire might be required. And a lil' bit of dressing up, gussying up, and glamming it up wouldn't hurt. At all.
Innit?
As such, the Toreador Ghoul opts formal stuff. usual work wear. silk shirt, pants, good makeup, bangles, lets brunette hair hang lose.