Title: Vampire: The Masquerade- Aeterna Servitus
ALT Title: Vampire: The Masquerade- Eternal Servitude
By: Paddy
Writing Start Date: 16th July, 2026
Writing End Date: ongoing
Fandoms: World Of Darkness (WOD), Vampire: The Masquerade (VTM), Mage: The Ascension (MTA)
Genre(s): Horror, Urban Fantasy, Drama, Thriller, Intrigue, Action-Adventure, Gothic Punk, Gothic Horror, Supernatural, Tragedy, Magical Realism, Modern Gothic, Political Horror, Social Horror, Economic Horror
Summary: A Ghoul by the name of Cassandra is plunged into a vast, secretive, and dark world that she only has a theoretical understanding of. Allegiances will be tested, decisions must be made. The steep price that one pays for life eternal is...eternal servitude. Favors are owed. Favors must now be repaid. Tomorrow may not even come, not in this world of darkness.
Content/Trigger Warnings: Intense Violence, Blood & Gore, Torture, Psychological/Mental Torture, Strong Language, Slurs, Bigotry/Hate, Racism, Queerphobia, Sexual Content/Scenes, Full & Partial Nudity, Alcohol/Substance Consumption, Smoking, Human & Animal Death, Xenophobia, Ableism, and so on.
Mirrors/Alternative Places To Read:
Additional Notes:
Inspirations (Not ALL of them, just the main ones):
WOD: The God-Machine Chronicle Anthology
VTM: Night Road | Out For Blood | Parliament Of Knives | Sins Of The Sires | Coteries Of New York | Shadows Of New York | We Eat Blood And All Our Friends Are Dead | Reckoning Of New York | Clans Of London | Walk Among Us
MTA: Refuge | Melody Through The Mirrorshade Lens | Truth Beyond Paradox
TV Shows: Toxic Town (2025), The Hack (2025), Dirty Business (2026)
...And many more.
Act 1: British Autumn
Gloughchester, England (NOT to be confused with Gloucester, or Gloucestershire for that matter).
The year is 201X. The air is crispy and the colors of the autumn season are warm, inviting, and somewhat welcoming. Yet, that jolly ol' British "gray and gloomy" feel persists in the overall atmosphere.
A few birds sing sweetly in the distance. The world seems to be at peace. Yet, a sense of unease still lingers in the air.
Her cabin is located quite a way off from the city proper. So far, in fact, that even its bustling sounds cannot be heard. It's a quaint little place, nestled amongst the sturdy trees and rolling hills of the countryside. A small, cobblestone path leads up to the front door.
The cabin itself is quite old, with a rustic charm that is not easy to come by in the modern age. Yet, it is remarkably well-maintained. Smooth wooden flooring, a solid roof, and an impressive stone fireplace. It's more than enough for her needs, and she is quite happy with it.
She has been here for quite some time now. He...lives not that far away, in the fancier house, the real crowning jewel of this part of Gloughchester.
Inside, she readies herself to go and meet with him. She has a Rubenesque physique and is in her late-20s. Her brown hair is long and cascades down to her shoulders. She has lovely hazel eyes. She is dressed in a comfortable outfit of jeans, a t-shirt, and a light jacket.
The lass is seated in front of her dresser, drying her hair. The sound of her hairdryer dominates the room. She dries her brunette hair whilst smiling at her reflection in a rather cheeky fashion.
After that, she takes a deep breath and closes her eyes. He called on her this evening. Last night, all he told her was to come to his house prepared as soon as the sun had set.
He had that ever-so-familiar distance and withdrawment about him. It's something that she herself has gotten fairly inured to over the years that she has not only known him but also served him. He is not an easy man to understand, that much is for certain.
She rises from her seat with a sort of semi-practiced grace and goes to get her things. She grabs her purse, keys, and nothing much else.
"I don't need anything else, do I?" she asks herself, her accent utterly Northern and thick.
She shakes her head. "No, no. Cor blimey, I got another...eh...hour before he gets up, yeah. May as well do some light reading."
She goes to the bookshelf and picks out a random book. She shrugs, throws herself on the recliner, leans her head back, and begins to read. The time passes by rather quickly.
She breathes out a few times and readies herself. She knows how people like him tend to get soon after waking from a slumber that lasts throughout the whole day.
"Alright, alright. Deep breaths. He--he's not gonna lunge at ya and bite ya, right? Eh. I should just keep me distance."
She makes her way out of the cabin, locking the door behind her. She hugs herself when a light breeze blows through the trees.
"It's bloody cold out tonight, innit?"
The woman makes her way through paths which she has traversed (by foot) so many times before. In the few years that she's lived here, she has gotten to know the surrounding area very well.
Coming here from London was more of his idea- she just had to tag along for the ride. Nevertheless, she has always been quite fond of nature, and living out here has done wonders for her mental health.
Whether it's done the same for him, on the other hand, is hard to determine. Even after all these years, he has been a fairly closed-off person. But then again, he has never been the most social of people. His times were very different from hers.
They are separated by decades of history. Yet, they are Bound by the Blood.
While walking the winding paths, she licks her lips and tries to remember when her next feeding is supposed to be. She stops and gives the sky above her a good, long stare. Shrouded by clouds, the moon's light is barely visible.
"Ah, English weather. Never gets old!" she says and follows it up with a long chuckle.
Soon enough, she arrives at the front of his...Haven.
It's a Bauhaus-inspired (as in the school of design) structure nestled between the thick trees. Sleek and modern, it's definitely quite the contrast to her own humble cottage.
(Not that she complains, mind you! She knows better than to complain.)
She stops and admires the plain white walls, the floor-to-ceiling windows, and the impressive glass door. It's a beautiful piece of architecture, that much is for sure. And the price that he got it for is a story in and of itself.
She raps her knuckles on the glass door and patiently waits for him to answer. A few moments pass by, and she hears his voice coming from within.
His accent is somewhat rough but not necessarily caustic, "It's open, Cassandra." His delivery is dry, lacking in any real emotion.
She nods and opens the door. She happily calls out, "Hiya, Greg! Are y--you awake or are you still feeling a bit tired?"
The lights inside are dimmed. The temperature is cool, almost cold. She shivers slightly and rubs her arms. The flooring of his Haven is made of marble.
The interior is minimalist, stark, and modern. He kept most of the previous owner's furniture and decorations. There are a few paintings on the walls, mostly abstract pieces that he tends to get lost in while staring at them.
She looks around and doesn't see him anywhere.
Cassandra has a look of concern on her face when she calls out, "Greg? You there? Y--you wanted to see me tonight? Remember?"
He emerges behind her, having silently moved through the shadows. His voice is soft yet commanding, "Yes, I remember. I don't need reminding of what I already know."
She turns around and sees him standing there. He is a tall and pale man with thinning hair, scruffy facial hair, and lifeless blue eyes. He is middle-aged but looks far older than that.
He is dressed in a green t-shirt and dark sweatpants. His face is angular and somewhat gaunt.
Cassandra smiles and nervously compliments him, "Looking...nice tonight." Her follow-up smile is just as nervous.
The wrinkles on Gregory's face deepen as he glares at her in a very dry and unimpressed fashion, "Hm. If you say so."
"You...uh...fed yet? Need me to help you, you know...?"
"No. That can wait, Cassandra. I summoned you here for a purpose. Make yourself comfortable. I'll need to retrieve something. After that, we'll sit down and have a talk. It is time, Cassandra."
Gregory wordlessly turns on his heels and strides up the stairs.
Cassandra watches him go with a curious expression on her face. Her cheeks redden slightly, and she feels her heart skip a few beats.
She thinks to herself, "Time for what? Bloody 'ell, he's always so vague with me, yeah? Maybe I should 'ave a talk with him about that. But, uh...I dunno if I'm ready for that, innit?"
For now, Cassandra scratches her head and sits down on his fancy L-shaped couch. She leans back and folds 1 leg over the other.
A few minutes later, Gregory comes back down the stairs, holding a piece of paper in his cold, dead hands. He looks at Cassandra and silently hands it to her.
On it, are listed the names of the Clans of the Kindred, along with a few Bloodlines. Cassandra's face scrunches up in confusion.
Gregory sits down with a groan and anticipates her questions. He dryly begins, "I'm sure that you have many questions. Best to get them all out right away. Ask." He lazily motions for her to begin.
Cassandra blinks a few times, "What's this?"
Gregory answers, "As you are very well aware, over the years, I have been something of an art dealer. I needn't elaborate on what I hope you already have knowledge of, yes?"
"Yeah. What's that got to do with a list of all the Clans...and a few Bloodlines, though? Isn't having something like this lying around considered a Masquerade breach?"
Gregory shrugs, "It makes very little difference to me on nights like these, Cassandra. Put that aside for a moment. During my...time, I have come across an array of Kindred. Certain deals and promises were made- formally, informally, or otherwise. I strongly feel that now is the time to make good on these promises. All of them."
Cassandra furrows her brows, "Why is this the first time that I'm hearing about all of this? Also, all of them? Cor blimey, you owe every single Clan on this list a--a favor of some kind, eh?"
"Some of them owe me. Personally."
"Oh. Wow. That should be mighty useful in getting out of a sticky situation, yeah?"
"Hm. Perhaps. Perhaps it would only serve to thrust me into even greater messes. But I digress. This is where you come in. As my Ghoul, I am authorizing you to not only act but also speak on my behalf."
"Wow. Uhm..." the words fail to form on her lips.
Gregory raises a brow, "I feel that you have something to say. Please, say it now rather than keeping it to yourself. I have never been a cruel Domitor to you and I most certainly don't intend to ever be as such."
Cassandra takes a deep breath, "This is--blimey, this is quite a lot. ALL the Clans? You've been busy! So, that FINALLY explains all those trips you used to take for weeks on end! How do I factor into this equation? Is it permissible for a Domitor to authorize his Ghoul to do what you said? I feel that territory is a tad murky, Greg."
Gregory plainly replies, "It is permissible because I say it is so. Truth be told, I'd rather not deal with some of the...individuals on this list. But I have made promises. Promises that I intend to keep. And many of them owe me, and it's time to, pardon the crudeness, cash in on those favors."
Cassandra takes a deep breath and nods slowly, processing the weight of her immortal master's words.
Gregory continues, "There is a few more things that I must tell you."
Cassandra chuckles, "I'm all ears, Greg!" She tugs on her ears.
Gregory ignores her attempt at humor, "You are free to tackle it in any way that you so please. I will elaborate on who owes me and to whom I owe. Us Kindred deal in something far greater than the fluctuating pettiness of the fiat currency--"
"Favors. I know. I know all too bleedin' well."
"Hm. Yes. You do. Now will be the appropriate time to deploy all of that accumulated knowledge and insight that you have been thought. I expect nothing less than your best efforts."
"Sure."
Gregory insists, "I mean it, Cassandra. You will be representing me. You will also be representing my--our Clan...Toreador. For me to tell you to be on your best behavior would be a disservice to you. But you have always been a rather...clever woman."
The Ghoul smirks lightly, "I suppose so, yeah."
The Aesthete firmly reminds her of her place within the structure of the Camarilla, "It's the insect's lesson: be on your best behavior around someone who could easily crush you like 1."
She gulps as a look of fear washes over her face. She nods and quietly says, "I--I understand, yeah. I get it. Manners. Posh, extra posh, innit?"
"This is not a joke, Cassandra. This is serious. I am owed favors and I owe just as many favors to many, many of Caine's Childer."
Cassandra queries, "Any reason why you're doing it all now? Why not only do a part of it and let the others simmer so when shit really gets hot, you can cash 'em in?"
Gregory's dead eyes flit to the side for a moment. He looks back at her and shakes his head, "I'm afraid that it is not that simple. I have my reasoning. And I surely do not owe you an explanation. But I will say this: I want to put all of my affairs in order."
He ominously tells her, "There's a reason why I have kept you away from most of it for the past 2 or so decades. Many reasons...but now is hardly the time for such things."
Cassandra's curiosity is piqued, "So, you're finally going to tell me what you've been up to, yeah? All those sudden trips to fancy locales and--"
"I've been doing it long before you became my Ghoul, Cassandra. But I strongly believe that now is the time to finally cash in on all of these favors. And it's time for you to represent me. It's time for you to put your wits, whatever insights you may possess, and whatever skills you have acquired over the years to good use."
Cassandra licks her lips and stares at the paper. On it are listed the names of the Clans (and a few Bloodlines) written in block letters. A generous amount of space has been left between each entry.
Gregory tells her, "You will be free to tackle this however you deem fit. I shall explain to whom I owe favors...and who owe me. I intend to see the proverbial slate being wiped clean in a...matter of weeks."
"Weeks? Wow. OK. What kind of...err...favors do you owe these people?"
Gregory dryly answers, "I have been involved in a few dealings over the decades, I have met many a sort of person- if some can even be called people anymore. They vary from eccentric to those in whose presence I shan't want to be in. Through my art-dealing, I have done them favors and they have done me favors. That's usually how it goes in Kindred Society."
Cassandra mumbles, "That's fucking vague. OK, never mind. Sorry. I'll just...take your word for it, yeah?"
"Yes, that would be preferable. Have I ever lied to you? Misled you? Backstabbed you?"
"No, no, and no. I'd hope bloody not! Why? Should I expect any surprises when I run around carrying these errands out for you?"
Gregory flatly answers, "You should be ready for anything. It is simply the nature of things, Cassandra. The nature of our world is one of treachery, manipulation, uncertainty, deceit, and betrayal...and violence."
Cassandra notes, "It's a pretty dark world, yeah. But I try me best to see the good in it, too."
"That's always been something admirable about you, Cassandra. What's that word they throw around? Oh, yes, bubbliness. Hm, yes, that. But be wary, all the same. Some of these people will not hesitate--" the words get caught in his mouth.
The Toreador goes silent for a moment. His eyes glaze over, and he seems to be lost in thought. The Domitor dreamily stares at something over his Ghoul's shoulder.
Cassandra has gotten used to this. She follows his gaze and spots a few falling leaves in the far distance.
Gregory shakes his head and comes back to reality. He clears his throat and blinks, "Oh. Where was I? Never mind. And another thing."
"Yeah?"
"Try not to sound so bloody Northern all the time. Some of the people whom you will find yourself interacting with are rather...peculiar, to say the least. Mildly put--"
Cassandra claps back, "I'll sound as bloody Northern as I damn well like! It's me accent, it's me way of--of speaking and expressing meself! How the fuck am I supposed to change that, eh? I'm not gonna start talking like a posh wanker, Greg!"
She does an imitation of someone who's posh. She elaborately lifts her chin and pouts haughtily, "Oh, look at me. Oh, darling butler, the poors are sooooooo quaint. Look at their council houses and their clothes. Is that a chav I spot in the distance! Oh, we simply must have a picture of it!"
Gregory sighs, "Yes, yes, fine. OK. I get the point loud and clear. You've made your argument. Fine. Be as Northern as you like. Just don't let it get in the way of your duties. It was stupid of me to--to even bring that up."
Cassandra nods, "Hmph, yeah. No shite. I am who I am. And is the other thing going to be an issue? Y'know, the--"
"I don't know. But if I were you, I wouldn't go around telling people. I--I know that times are different now. Everything's more open, but a lot of our kind simply haven't gotten with the modern era just yet. You know how some of us can be."
She ruffles her hair slightly and fixes her gaze to the ground, "Yeah, yeah. I know. So, I 'ave to keep me mouth shut about it, yeah? But it's a--a core part of who I am, Greg. I can't just shut that aspect- that part- of me off, y'know?"
Gregory clasps his hands together and nods, "I know. And, for what it's worth, I am terribly sorry about any...prejudices you may have to encounter in regard to that."
Cassandra winces, "Apologizing in advance is hardly confidence-boosting."
Regardless, she waves her hand and clicks her tongue, "Ah, it's fine. I'll find a way to...manage it. It's not like I'm gonna go around shouting it from the rooftops, innit?"
Gregory's smile doesn't quite reach his eyes, "Yes, yes, of course. But you should be free to be who you are. I've personally never had any problems with it. I've always seen it as something that makes you...well, you."
Cassandra lips curl into a smile, "Aww, thanks, Greg! It's--it's nice to hear that coming from you, yeah. And also, a bit reassuring."
"Just be careful out there. You have a deep and intimate knowledge of our kind. Utilize it to the max. This is something that you'll have to do on your own. Figure things out, improvise where you must. I shan't be accompanying you on any of these...journeys."
"Journeys? Cor blimey? Where are you sending me off to? Ibiza?"
"Nothing as fun or--or exotic as that, I'm afraid. Everything is well within the confines of the United Kingdom of Great Britain, Scotland, Ireland...and Wales, for some reason. Reasons that shall soon become apparent to you."
"Alright. Well, this is gonna be a bloody long night, innit? You sure you don't want--"
Gregory holds his hand out, "I will hunt later. This simply has to be done. The Hunger can wait."
Cassandra notes, "It's never a good idea to deny the Beast for that long."
"It can wait. This is simply of the utmost importance to me."
Cassandra pointedly asks, "Why now? Why all of a sudden? Is this some sort of eccentric Toreador thing that I'm not aware of? Is it something else? Some kind of...err...mid-Unlife crisis?"
Gregory's dead eyes narrow, "Eccentric? Mid-Unlife crisis? Far from it. Needless to say, I do not owe you an explanation as to why I'm doing this now. It is my prerogative to do so. As your Domitor, I am asking you- my Ghoul- to simply carry out these tasks on my behalf. Nothing more, nothing less."
Cassandra's eyebrows shoot up, "Wow. OK. S--sure. So, you either owe favors to- or are owed favors from- each and every single Clan? And a few Bloodlines, eh?"
"Yes." A very plain and emotionless answer.
"That's...uhm...oh, I'm pretty stoked about this, Greg. Any suggestions on how to get started? How to tackle this?" Cassandra taps the piece of paper on her thigh.
Gregory reaches out and grabs it from her. He takes a pen from the nearby glass table, clicks it, and starts making some edits. After 20 seconds or so, he hands it back to Cassandra.
"Cor blimey! I always knew that you were busy, but never THIS busy! And that writing was...fast, like, blazing fast, yeah."
Gregory dully says, "I have been in and around the art world as a dealer. And in those few short years, I have come across all sorts. And it is highly likely that you will cross paths with those same...people. Be on your guard, Cassandra. Watch what they say, how they say it, and always remember your learning."
She nods at him, a tight and uneasy look slowly forming on her otherwise soft features, "Yeah, yeah, OK. You're scaring me a bit, Greg. What's all of this really about?"
Gregory vacantly stares off into the distance. He comes back to reality and dryly explains, "It is simply the way things have to be. I...this needs to be done and there is nobody else in this world I trust enough to accomplish these tasks for me. I hope that I haven't made a mistake by choosing you."
The Ghoul clicks her tongue, "No need to be so condescending! Of bloody course, I'll do it! And I won't let you down!"
"Hmm. We have much to discuss. For now, I need some time to...mull some things over. You're free to go and do whatever it is that you usually do for the next few...hours, Cassandra. When you return, we shall talk about the specifics."
"Sure thing."
Gregory looks right into her hazel eyes and comments, "There's a reason why I'm not coming with you. As such, I'm authorizing you to act on my behalf and represent me. Furthermore, try not to call me up so bloody much. It's not safe to be using the phones, anyway, right?"
Cassandra nods her head up and down, "Mm-hmm. Not that safe, yeah. How about if I tackled it in alphabetical order, eh? Or sort of alphabetical order?"
The Toreador Domitor shrugs indifferently, "It's your choice. I shall simply give you some parting advice and leave you, largely, to your own devices. Know that your words and deeds reflect on me. And there are people- especially in this Domain- who are always watching, waiting for the slightest of slip-ups before they come swooping in."
Gregory's tone gets far more ominous, "And when they come for you, they won't come alone. Please, be on your best behavior. Be discreet, cautious, forge alliances wisely, know when to back away from a situation, and...well, you already know what to do. Keeping you insulated from the broader happenings of Kindred Society was a...choice on my part."
"A bad one or a good one?"
"I don't quite have a satisfactory answer to that, I'm afraid. Don't worry about work; I'll call them and speak with them later. You are to take your vacation now. This may very well drag on for a while."
Cassandra sighs and shakes her head, "Oh, a long one, innit? Ah, fine. I was hoping to use me vacation time to actually, y'know, go on a nice holiday. Sunny Spain or--or France or Italy."
Gregory reassures her, "Worry not, everything is well within the confines of...this country and its most immediate neighbors."
Cassandra softly chuckles, "You still dislike Wales, eh? Whatever happened there, anyway?"
"You might find out. Or you won't. Please be careful, Cassandra. This is not a game. This is not a holiday or a--a thrilling vacation filled with wonder and excitement at every turn, this is serious business. I myself am going to be very busy the next few nights. You have an advantage, however."
The Ghoul smiles widely, "I still get to go out in the sun, eat ice cream, do all that fun stuff. Poor you, hmm?"
"Yes. Woe is me. On your travels, you will come across a myriad of...individuals. Each with their own agendas, desires, and goals. Your journeys will take you to places and people unexpected. Don't take anything at face value and be ready to come across things that could very well challenge your view of the world."
"Wow. Uhm...sure. Yeah. I'm absolutely ready. It's not gonna be violent or--or really, REALLY dangerous, though? Or is it?" Cassandra searches his blank gaze for any sort of answer. None are immediately apparent.
Instead, he simply tells her, "I will give you a bit more of my Vitae if you're worried. Other than that, expect the unexpected. Be ready to adapt- rapidly, if need be- to situations that change at the drop of a hat. I can't promise a smooth and easy ride- it would be foolish and irresponsible of me to do so."
Cassandra nods slowly, "Yeah, no shit. Just don't cast me into a fucking mess without a bit of--of prep. Maybe throw in a pep talk, too. Eh? What about money, supplies, that sort of thing?"
"As your Domitor, it is my responsibility to take care of such things. I'll also transfer some money into your account so that you can make purchases as you see fit. Worry not: you'll always have enough for your needs. Maybe the occasional want, but I leave that sort of thing to you."
The Ghoul gives him a thumbs-up, "Thanks, Greg! Y'know, you don't 'ave to pump a lot of dosh into me account; I got...enough. What about IDs and all that other fun stuff?"
Gregory equably answers, "Again, I shall take care of it. I've been around long enough to know the right people in our circles who fancy themselves experts on matters pertaining to...forged documents." Mild disapproval laces his words.
Cassandra smirks, "Ooh, sounds proper shady! But we should really cover our tracks and...err...watch our backs, yeah? I'd hate for the baddies in the Second Inquisition to find us out."
"Hm. Yes. As a Ghoul, even you are responsible for ensuring that the Masquerade- the most important of all our Traditions- is upheld. Do not take it lightly, Cassandra. You and I are in this together."
"Heh. In more ways than 1. You look a lot paler than usual. Are you sure you don't need me help to--"
Gregory's palm faces her. He shakes his head, "I can handle it myself, Cassandra. I got on fine long before you came along. But...you have been good to me. As have I, I--I hope."
Cassandra smiles warmly, "You 'ave. Can I take the Lexus? Do you need me to take you somewhere? Are we expecting any guests this week?"
"No. And not that I'm aware of. Cassandra, the Lexus is yours- it's always been yours. I...don't like driving vehicles of any kind. None whatsoever."
She rises from her seat and pats him on the shoulder. She briefly flashes him a look of concern, "Are you doing alright? Y--you'll tell me if something's wrong with you, yeah?"
"Hmm. Enjoy your drive."
Cassandra chuckles, "I'm just going to the shops, Greg. I'm a bit low on some...err...necessities. I'll pay with me own cash, don't worry, OK?"
Gregory nods and waves her off, "Yes, yes. Be careful out there. And drive safely. You're going to need to be in peak physical condition for the road ahead."
Cassandra chuckles, "It's not the bloody Olympics, is it?"
Gregory responds, "Don't take these things so lightly, Cassandra. I have already told you what will happen if you let your guard down- many, many times. I shall also take my leave. When you return, we have much to discuss and plan for. We also need to make sure that you have everything that you need for this."
The Ghoul pats the side of her jeans and slowly exits her Domitor's fancy Haven. She stops and takes a wee look at some of the abstract art pieces he has adorning the walls of his living room.
"Very pretty!"
"Hmm. Goodbye, Cassandra. I shall be out, hunting. Are those hikers still near that creek?"
While still staring at the paintings, she nods, "Mm-hmm. A few lads and a single lass. Definitely uni students on a wee adventure or some sort of holiday."
"They will have to do."
"Don't kill them, yeah?"
"Of course. I may be a damned monster condemned to drink blood and hide away from the sun for all eternity, but I still have my Humanity, Cassandra. Some shreds of it left to--to cling to."
She murmurs, "I hope that it's a lot more than a few shreds, Greg. I--I don't like disposing of dead bodies. It's fucking terrible and--and it's bloody traumatic! Don't let 'em die, alright?"
The Toreador Domitor puts on a faded jacket, "I shall strive to do my best." Without saying another word, he slips into a pair of running shoes and starts to walk towards the door.
Cassandra steps outside and takes a moment to appreciate her surroundings on this beautiful autumn evening. Despite the gray gloominess that never quite seems to go away, she finds it to be quite lovely. She always does.
She inhales a lungful of fresh air and smoothly lets it out through her nostrils. A quick check of her pocket reveals that she still has her keys. She decides to stop by her cottage before heading out into the city proper.
Cassandra takes slow and deliberate steps, making sure that she does step on a few of the crunchy fallen leaves that blanket the ground. She lightly giggles, skips, and runs around, kicking some up into the air and watching them flutter to the ground.
Once back in the cozy place that she has called home for the past few years, she grabs her phone. It's a Blackberry device with a QWERTY keyboard; she's been meaning to get an Android smartphone, but she's not quite ready to let go of something that's she's deeply familiar with.
The Ghoul's phone begins to vibrate. Her ringtone is a pop song of some kind. Her brows knit together when she spots an unknown number, but she answers it anyway.
"Yeah? Who's this?"
A man's voice is on the other end of the line, sounding slightly excited and breathless. He sounds young, "Hey, it--it's me. Yeah. Me. D--don't say me full name. They're listening, right? Listen, I just heard about your new job. Congratulations."
Cassandra thinks to herself, "Horace? Horace Grimley? But--?"
Horace chuckles and admonishes her, "Yeah, congratulations on the new job. Listen, watch it out there, love."
"But how do you--"
He hangs up without saying a word. Cassandra stares at her phone in shock, disbelief, and worry. The last time she saw him, he was still a Ghoul in the service of a Malkavian named Damien. That was a decade ago. Now, he somehow has...insight to phone her- just as soon as Greg wrapped up with her- and congratulate her on...getting a new job?
Cassandra wonders to herself, "Is Horace a Malkavian now? But how did he know about--? Ah, shite, I'll have to make time to see him sometime this week."
Yes. He is. His Embrace was quite recent, actually. And the visions that he's been getting have been on the overwhelming side of things. She'll find out soon enough.
Like Cassandra, Horace was a Vassal Ghoul.
Anyways, the Lexus that Cassandra has came along with the house and the nearby cottage that she now resides in. Long story. The car in question has already done a lot of kilometers over the years. Despite being secondhand, it's a sleek and very modern-looking thing.
Gregory gave it to her since he has never been much of a vehicle man. Not even bicycles! In his time, he used to walk to his place of work (since it was so bloody close by). He also liked taking the Tube when he was still back in London. And maybe the occasional ride on the double-decker buses.
The Ghoul slides into the driver's seat, starts the car up, and begins to make her way into the city. The engines of the Lexus purr like kittens. She makes sure to stick to the speed limit.
For a car that came thrown in with a cheap (by any and all standards) house and a nearby cottage, it's quite impressive all things considered.
Cassandra lets her lovely hair hand loose, the wind blowing it around. She elects to keep the radio turned off, instead taking in the sounds of the cityscape that she cruises through.
She softly smiles to herself, feeling pretty damn good about the new "job" that she has, assuming one could even call this set of complex tasks a proper job.
The city of Gloughchester has a population of about 600,000 souls, give or take. It's a decent-sized place with some urban areas and some rural ones, too. Pretty average as far as British metropolises go, really.
For Greg and Cass, the move to this Domain from London was done for a lot of reasons. But perhaps the most important was the fact that it's a relatively quiet and low-key Domain where they could both live, go about what matters the most, and function in the 21st century.
Cass slows down when she passes by the Jobs Center. The line has been rather large as of late. People of all ages, genders, ethnicities, and backgrounds wait for their chance at some form of gainful employment. A sympathetic look flashes across her features as she drives by.
"That bad? Shit! It wasn't always like this, though. I hope that they find something. So sad for them, yeah."
The Jobs Center building itself is a fairly average-looking structure. Limestone walls, 2 stories tall, with the upper floor being slightly smaller than the lower one. Large swathes of youth (and a few older people) congregate outside the building.
Many of them hold cups of coffee, water, or soda in their hands. They talk in very hush-hush voices, some of them casting nervous glances at the small group of suited people that are posted near the front entrance.
Everyone sort of stops and freezes in silence when a police car rolls up, parking not too far away from the building itself. The coppers inside get out, don their caps, and start chatting with the suited people.
Cassandra feels somewhat uneasy when she notices the suited people placing an envelope of some kind in the hands of 1 of the coppers. She immediately slams her foot on the gas pedal and speeds up a bit.
She nervously bites her lower lip. Her heart rate jumps a few ticks as she begins to turn down a street that leads to the ASDA supermarket. She finds a spot in the vast parking lot. A slight downpour begins to fall from the heavens.
"Ah, never change, England. Never change."
Cassandra grabs her umbrella and heads into the supermarket proper. It is disgustingly bright, shiny, and sparkling clean. It's also quite crowded. People are doing their usual weekly shopping. The employees are stocking shelves, moving things about, checking inventory, etc.
The Ghoul grabs a green-and-white basket and starts walking about the gaffe. She pulls out her Blackberry and scans the list that her (somewhat stubby) fingers had typed out earlier in the morning. Some of the stuff here is a tad pricier, so she reckons that the pound shop closer to her cottage would be better for those things.
For the other groceries, she'll just buy them here. If there's something she doesn't want to drive all the way out there for, she can just stop by the local pound shop. But they've had a nasty mold infestation as of late. Before that, it was asbestos.
A lot of buildings in the UK are simply not up to code, safe, or modernized in any way. And some of the buildings in Gloughchester are quite old and are starting to show their wear and tear in various ways.
Cassandra grabs some items off the shelves, taking her time to walk through the many aisles in this giant store. She smiles and nods politely to those who pass her by, as is her way. A few of the posher-looking folk give her funny looks, but she doesn't pay them much mind.
The Ghoul of Gregory is about to cast into a world that she only knows of from vast theoretical learning. This job- if one could even call it that- would take her to places she's never been to, see things she's never seen before, and meet people whom she's never met before.
A world of darkness awaits Cassandra.
Sometime later...
Gregory is back in the comfort of his Haven, the eternally ravenous Hunger of his Beast having been sated...for the time being at least. It can never be truly satisfied, only kept at bay.
He sits back with a dull expression taking up residence on his pale face. The thoughts swirl around in his head like whiskey sloshing around in a glass. His fingers tap against the armrests of the plush chair. From the corner of his eye, he thinks he spots...it.
Again. It has been tormenting him for quite a while now. The Toreador hasn't told a single soul about it. Not even his Ghoul knows- she can't, and it's likely that she won't. Ever.
"Maybe it's better that way," Greg says to himself while rapidly blinking his eyes, the vision (or probable lack thereof) having disappeared as quickly as it came. And there is soon a flicker of motion from the other side of the room.
Gregory's cold fingers dig into the arms of the chair, his nails almost piercing through the soft material. He freezes in unease and becomes as stiff as a statue. He watches the flickering figure. His eyes track something in the darkness as it moves and twitches sporadically, randomly, and in unpredictable patterns.
It's impossible to tell where this figure begins and ends. What even is it?
The ringing of the doorbell snaps the troubled Toreador out of his mini night-terror. He rises from his seat and slowly trudges to the front door, the motion sensors kicking on and bathing him in a bright light.
A decidedly middle-aged man with fair skin stands on the other side of the glass door. He has silver hair and a joyful, easy-going expression. His brown eyes twinkle in the dim light. Gregory opens the door, a small smile barely gracing his lips.
The other man loudly greets, "Gregory, how the hell are you doing, old boy!"
Gregory greets him back, "Alistair...all--all's well. I'm fine. How do you do?"
Like Gregory, Alistair is of the Blood. But of a vastly different Generation, lineage, and Sire (obviously).
Alistair is dressed in a simple black suit with a patterned gray tie. He is shorter than his fellow Aesthete and is of average weight. A thin smile plays at his lips as his eyes rove over the other man's features.
He finally remarks, "You look well, old boy. Finished eating?"
Gregory nods, "Hm. Yes. The nearby trespassers proved...suitable for my needs. After all, the nearby land is also...my property." Those last 2 words are something that a man like him- even after all these years- isn't quite used to uttering. Or even thinking about.
The older man claps him on the back and enters, "If I knew how cheap this entire place was going for, I'd have paid twice of what you paid! Hahaha! Ah, but what is done is done and cannot be undone."
"Come inside. Have a seat."
Alistair removes his bulky coat and hangs it on the nearby rack. He sets his hat aside as well. From there, he walks over to the plush chair and eases into it. Gregory returns to his own chair. His visitor takes a moment to appreciate the artwork that his fellow Toreador has on display.
"Abstract. Wonderful taste."
Gregory dryly states, "It came with the house. I only did the barest of renovations and additions. Nothing too serious, really."
"Oh, I know. I know. I shan't be wasting too much of your time. My visit tonight has purpose."
"Hmm."
"Yes. You withdrew your application. Such sudden and abrupt decisions! It's not the way we do things, old boy. You were almost in. Why? The Gloughchester Bridge Party would've been quite fun. Everyone would've had a smashing good time!"
Gregory doesn't look into his friend's eyes, "My decisions are my own. I am prioritizing something else at the moment. As such, I don't believe that I'd be able to dedicate the time and commitment that the Gloughchester Six would require of me."
"Oh. Oh, please. It's the Gloughchester Bridge Party. 'Gloughchester Six' has always been a misnomer to throw the others off the scent as it were. Our Coterie, it goes without saying, is far more than 6 members."
Gregory huffs a sigh, "Maybe a Coterie consisting solely of Toreadors wouldn't do wonders for me."
Alistair side-eyes his host, "Is that why you withdrew your application at the last possible second? It would've been the perfect opportunity for you to show your support and get in touch with some old friends from London, make some new connections with those of the Blood, and enjoy yourself, too! All while helping out a few good causes."
"My decision is final, Alistair. Other matters have come up and they demand my utmost attention and commitment. Please try to understand."
Alistair shrugs, "It's going to be hard explaining it to them, but I'm sure they'll come around. Might I inquire as to the nature of these other matters that have suddenly caught your eye, old boy? I know how...intriguing us Toreadors can get. Heh."
Cassandra's Domitor vaguely responds, "I intend to get my affairs in order."
"..."
Gregory flatly goes on, "I don't feel comfortable sharing any more than that. Not even with you- someone I consider a--a close friend. But I can tell you this: my Ghoul shall be doing it all- everything- on my behalf."
Alistair raises a thin brow, "Cassandra? Is she truly ready for this sort of thing?"
"She better be. There's still much for us to discuss. Needless to say, I have authorized her to act, speak, and negotiate on my behalf. And with regards to the Gloughchester Bridge Party, you need not concern yourself with me anymore. I'm out. And no, I won't be reapplying."
Alistair chuckles, "Even if you wanted to, you'd have to wait for a full century before they'd even consider your application. Unless, of course, they've changed their minds, but I somehow doubt that. It's a very exclusive Coterie. Your sudden and abrupt exit is...unusual, old boy. It's raised its fair share of eyebrows and given them reason enough to suspect something's amiss."
Gregory waves a hand dismissively, "That's no longer my problem."
Alistair leans forward and clasps his icy hands together, "Is there anything else that you wish to talk about, Gregory? About what you're sending Cassandra on, maybe? These aren't simply errands. And it's not something that Domitors usually send their Ghouls on, either."
Gregory acknowledges that, "I know. But I see no other choice. She's probably had it easy for these past 2 decades in which she has been serving me. But I wouldn't necessarily say that in front of her, though."
Alistair's tone turns concerned, "Are you not well, old boy? Still concerned about what happened back in London, eh? I can imagine how hard it must've been for you. Especially the aftermath."
"No. It--it's not that. I've moved on, shed my obligatory tears for those who perished. And no, that's not it."
"Then what is it??"
Gregory stares at the ground, "It's my past. Cassandra is inevitably going to find certain things out- she's not stupid- and I fear that the truth may cause her to lose trust in me."
"Ah. Your dealings in art...be it on a canvas or otherwise. Your Ghoul is not privy to many of your earlier escapades, is she?" Alistair knowingly taps the side of his nose and smirks.
"There is a myriad of reasons why I have kept her away from the excesses of Kindred Society. Her safety and welfare are, in its own way, a reflection of my own. But she deserves to know about it all- the good and the bad- before I send her into the belly of the beast."
Alistair shrugs a shoulder, "I suppose she does. Far be it from to prod too deeply, but she is adequately Bound to you via the Blood, yes? Loose lips, old boy, sink ships. And we'd all hate for anything bad to happen to poor Cassandra, hmm? She's been serving you quite well and is quite a lovely lass."
Gregory nods slowly, "She knows what's at stake here."
Alistair waggles a finger at his fellow Toreador and cheekily reminds him, "Unlife on nights like these is more like an extended warranty. It can easily be revoked- as can the very right of our kind to exist- for a wide assortment of reasons. We needn't go over all of those reasons, do we?"
"I know. No, we--we need not."
"What about the ugly?"
Gregory's brows knit together, "Hmm?"
Alistair sighs a little, "You mentioned her needing to know the good and the bad. What of the ugly? The unspeakable, unmentionable, and unsavory? Inversely, what of the truly beautiful things that are still locked away somewhere in this vast world of ours? The things that are so beautiful that they would make her want to cry and laugh and smile and cheer and weep and sing all at once?"
"I'll get to it. Piece by piece. I shan't be dumping everything on her head in a single night. That would just overwhelm her."
"Oh, no doubt about it, old boy."
Gregory raises his chin and changes the subject, "How is work?"
Alistair chuckles, "NHS admin doesn't quite have the same ring to it as esteemed surgeon. But, like you, I made my decision to withdraw myself from the practice of my profession of medicine. Y--you know why..." he trails off, his lower lip quivering in the slightest.
"It's noble of you. Lesser beings would've stayed on and fed that monster of theirs until it became a liability. Then they would've been forced out anyways."
"V--very true. Very true. I still don't know why, Gregory. Why was I so disturbingly fascinated with innards and insides when performing surgeries. I had to step down...for my own good. I'm only grateful that nobody was seriously harmed when I was in the operating theaters. Dead hands, after all, tended to be the steadiest of them all."
The former doctor goes on, "But my doctoring times are behind me, old boy. I--I had to step down, for everyone's good. I still see a few Ghouls, but in a private capacity. Mind if I pop by Cassandra's cottage and check her vitals before she heads out? If she's going to be carrying out the will of her Domitor, then she's going to need to be in tip-top shape. It's only the proper thing to do."
"Be my guest."
And with that, Alistair rises from his seat. He and Gregory walk to the front door, the 2 Aesthetes making small talk on the way.
"Keep in touch, eh? And what do I tell our friends at the Gloughchester Bridge Party, hmm? For what it's worth, those games of bridge that we had were rather fun."
Gregory gives him a weak smile, "Tell them that I wish them all the best of luck. They'll manage without me, I'm sure of it. If there's some kind of a fee to be paid--"
Alistair waves his hand, "Oh, no, no. Nothing like that. Your decision is final and deeply personal. Does that sound succinct enough?"
"Yes. Goodnight, Alistair."
Alistair puts his coat and hat back on. He waves farewell and heads off. Gregory shuts the door and stands in contemplative silence for a minute or 2.
With a pep in his step, Alistair whistles a jolly ol' tune and walks along the path to Cassandra's cozy little cottage.
The Gloughchester Bridge Party is an exclusively exclusive, Toreador-only, Plumaire-Type Coterie. Birds of a feather flock together, and social coteries like Plumaires ("feathered ones") exemplify this adage.
They're united by ties of social prominence or simple common enthusiasms, in this case, very intense games of bridge. They share similar tastes in music, fashion, and what have you.
(It's also a great place to socialize and network with those of the Rose).
Gregory was almost so close to having an "in" with this Coterie. Why did he withdraw?
Why, indeed?
Regardless, the existing members of the Gloughchester Six won't take such a perceived slight lightly. Some of these creatures are truly petty and are disturbingly capable of harboring grudges for decades on end. And their reach extends far beyond the confines of Gloughchester.
Cassandra's Domitor has made his decision, anyway. His steps are heavy and slow as he trudges upstairs, heading straight for the bedroom.
Alistair's knuckles rap on Cassandra's door. He calls out, "Hello, Cassandra, it's Alistair. I'm just popping by for a quick hello. Are you free to speak right now?"
"Just a moment!" she hastily calls out, some clattering and giggling noises following soon thereafter.
After more than a moment, Cassandra opens the door, a bright smile on her pretty face. Her cheeks look a tad flushed, her hair is messy, and her clothing is askew. Her chest rises and falls with every breath.
Alistair remarks, "Ah, Cassandra, you are quite the sight for sore eyes. Might I come in?"
She steps aside and ushers him in. Alistair takes a look around her cozy abode. He nods approvingly, saying, "This place is quite nice. I like what you've done with the interiors. You've really done a smashing job cleaning the place up and keeping it well-maintained."
A woman with short black hair silently pecks Cassandra on the cheek, hugs her awkwardly, and shuffles off. She squeezes past Alistair and puts a ring back on her finger. The Toreador refrains from commenting.
Cassandra's eyes follow the other woman as she exits her cottage. Her hazel eyes linger on the fading image of the woman's silhouette. Alistair still doesn't say anything.
He breaks the silence by asking, "I hope that I wasn't interrupting anything important?"
Cassandra shakes her head and smiles, "Oh, no, no. Not at all. So, what can I do for you? You spoke to Greg, yeah?"
Alistair settles into her warm couch and crosses his legs. Cassandra sits at the other end, her legs lazily resting across the length of the sofa.
The former surgeon answers, "Yes, I did. Did you know that he withdrew his application from the Gloughchester Bridge Party??"
"I did, yeah. He told me not to get too worked up over it. It's just a bunch of bridge games and chatting with posh types, innit?"
"That sounds a bit reductive, but I suppose that's the gist of it. I'm only commissioned by them to vet potential entrants into their little circle. Your Domitor was millimeters away; they were impressed with his...illustrious past record, to put it mildly. The withdrawal was highly unexpected. It's not like him, Cassandra."
Cassandra sucks some air in between her teeth, "I don't know what's gotten into him. He's been acting proper strange these past few weeks. Barely says a word, only does the bare minimum. He might've let it slip that he's not day-sleeping too well, either."
Alistair puts his hand on his mouth, "Oh, my. Now, THAT is cause for concern. Do you have any idea what- or who- could've possibly caused it?"
"He clams up when I try to ask him about it."
"Is he...mistreating you in any way?"
"Just being a bit vague, that's all. In the 2 decades I've been with him, I've never seen him like this before. Sure, he was always rather distant and--and withdrawn. But this is something else entirely. I reckon that something's not right with him. But I don't quite know why."
Alistair gives her a thin, polite smile, "Perhaps a long walk throughout the area would do him some good. He got himself- and you- the deal of the century with this entire property."
Cassandra admits, "It's a beautiful place, yeah. We're both really thankful that we're living here. I--I don't take such things for granted. Renting flats in London was a right pain in the arse. I've seen me fair share of moldy apartments. So, having this little cottage- even if it is in a remote, out-of-the-way place- is a bloody dream for someone like me."
"I can imagine. Enjoy it. Gregory has informed me about certain tasks that you are to carry out on his behalf. Well, knowing him, it's going to involve its fair share of physical demands, not merely mental ones. It's not going to be easy, Cassandra."
"Uh-huh. OK. And?"
"When was your last checkup? Do you have a doctor whom you regularly see. Yes, yes, I know, you're a Ghoul and all that. But that's no excuse to skimp on one's health. If you were my patient, I'd insist that you schedule a proper medical examination. I know many establishments that are...Kindred-friendly, so to speak."
"I'm not ill, but I--I understand what you're getting at."
"I could ask you a few questions, if that's alright with you?"
Cass shrugs, "Ask away."
The doctor in him asks the lass a few rudimentary, standard, and non-invasive questions. She gives truthful, honest answers and does her best to recall certain bits and bobs of information.
From there, the conversation drifts to other matters.
Cassandra brings up what she saw earlier in the evening, "I think I saw a bunch of coppers taking a bribe near the Jobs Center."
Alistair isn't too surprised by this, "Hm. Yes. Let's just say that coppers tend to get grumpy when they are denied their whack. And as a doctor, I've personally seen what the wrath of an officer of the law looks like. It's not a pretty sight, Cassandra. I've performed intensive, life-saving surgeries on more battered spouses of police officers than I care to recall."
The former doctor's voice hardens, "I'd be careful around the local police force in this Domain. And not just the 'bent' ones, mind you."
He taps the side of his nose in a knowing gesture, "There's more to them than meets the eye."
"Cor blimey. Will I have to cross paths with such tossers when I'm out and about doing Greg's stuff??"
Alistair leans forward, a glint in his eyes, "I believe that you will, yes. My advice is to always have a good, solid, plausible explanation at the ready. And it doesn't hurt to have your barrister on speed dial. You're being thrust into a world that you only have a theoretical understanding of. No offense, but the actuality is often quite different."
Cassandra chuckles uneasily, "Oh, I--I know. I know. I'm prepared, yeah. It's a big change and I've heard all the horror stories about things going pear-shaped out there. But I don't wanna let Greg down. He's counting on me to help him get his affairs in order. So, that's what I'm gonna do."
Alistair rises from his seat and exclaims, "That's the spirit! I shall be taking my leave now. Do let Gregory know that I was here. And try to get through to him. I'm worried about him. We all are."
Cassandra sighs softly, "I'm concerned about him, too. But he has to tell me what's got him so bothered. I'm not a mind-reader. I don't 'ave fancy Auspex and shite."
"That is true. Goodnight, my dear. And may the coming nights be...kind to you."
Cassandra walks him to the door and sees him out, "Likewise. Cheers!" She eagerly waves goodbye and closes the door.
She blows a sharp raspberry as the man's footsteps slowly fade into the distance. She's still standing at the front door, a small smile lingering on her face. Cass throws herself back on the couch and grabs her cordless landline. She dials a number and waits.
The phone rings once, then twice. The woman from earlier answers with a chirpy, "Hello!"
"Amy...hiya."
"Hello, yourself."
"You still driving? Should I--"
"Hands-free! That Bluetooth you got for me last Christmas was the bee's knees. Thanks again. I'm loving it!"
"Oh, good. Y--you free to talk? I just want to hear your voice. Sorry about that...sudden interruption."
"Eh, no worries. I didn't mean to get in the way. Is it work?"
Amy is in her 30s. She has short black hair, a freckled face, and a thin frame. She's a few inches taller than Cass. She speaks with a slight lisp.
Cassandra answers, "Something like that, yeah. I was hoping that we'd...be able to, y'know...spend the night together."
"Oooh, really now? A right cheeky minx, you are! What if I made it up to you sometime this week, hmm??"
Cassandra smiles softly, "I'd like that very much. What did you have in mind?"
Amy shifts gears and takes a smooth turn, "Well, kebabs. Takeaway, that sort of thing. Nothing too fancy, right? I know you too well to know that you don't like anything too over-the-top, eh?"
"Yeah, that sounds nice. Y--you don't think that you could turn back and--and spend the night here, right now, do you?"
Amy looks at the ring on her finger and grimaces slightly, "I don't want her to get any more suspicious than she already is. Please, don't put me in a tight spot. Who was that silver-haired man who popped by, anyway?"
"A--a friend of sorts."
Amy chuckles, "You have all sorts of interesting friends, don't you?"
Cassandra responds, "Well, you're a friend, too. I'd hate to lose a good one."
Amy rolls her eyes, "I think I'm far more than that."
"Yes, yes. But you--we 'ave to be careful!"
Amy clicks her tongue, her eyes flitting to the ring on her finger once more, "I know. But that's what makes all of this a tad exciting, innit?"
Cassandra sharply exhales, "I suppose so. I just don't want anyone finding out about...us, yeah? I--I'd hate to lose--"
"No one's going to find out, sweetheart. Before you sleep it off, think about me, yeah? Because I'll be thinking of you when I'm taking my bath tonight..." Amy seductively purrs.
The Ghoul giggles, "You're such a tease! I love it! Bloody 'ell, you've made me all wet just by talking! You're not making this easy, are you?"
Amy smirks, "Nope. But that's why you like me so much, isn't it? Goodnight, sweetie. I'll text you in the morning, yeah?"
"Y--yeah. I--I lo--I mean, yes, definitely."
Amy playfully singsongs, "You needn't say it! Goodnight and sleep tight! Cheers!"
Cassandra hangs up the phone, a big smile on her face. Amy taps on her Bluetooth earpiece and adjusts her rearview mirror. She presses her foot down on the pedal and speeds off.
It's obvious what's going on here, innit?
Anyways...
Sunrise is moments away. Greg and his Ghoul have already spoken on what is to be done over the next few nights. He vaguely tells her that he'll reveal more information, in a piece-by-piece sort of manner, over the coming nights.
She has no reason to doubt him. She decides to tackle things in alphabetical order (sort of). The 1st on the list is Brujah. The Banu Haqim are in Birmingham, and the Baali isn't scheduled to arrive anytime soon.
Besides, the Brujah that Gregory owes are right here in Gloughchester.
The Toreador ensures that the shutters are closed. He also checks the thick red curtains to make sure that they're adequately blocking out the sunlight.
The man is a creature of habit, and habits are hard to break. But this is 1 habit that has no room for compromise. After checking that everything is as it should be, Gregory trudges towards his large bed and throws the covers over himself.
His mind slowly goes blank. As the sun slowly peeks over the horizon, his thoughts grow foggy. He can no longer resist the allure of the day's long, long rest. Greg shuts his eyes and prepares to be pulled into the depths of the day-sleep.
His Ghoul, Cassandra, is already sound asleep. Now that she's been given her vacation, her schedule ought to be more aligned with that of her Domitor's.
Before she nodded off, she was busy putting the finishing touches on her own preparations. Her snoring is loud and deep, and she's sprawled across the length of her queen-sized bed, totally naked.
Her cellphone is by her pillow, and a few notifications light up the screen and cause it to vibrate a few times. Just some rather suggestive texts from Amy, nothing more.
Fear washes over Gregory. His body slowly goes all sluggish. He knows that he's not alone, even if his senses aren't telling him otherwise. He shuts his eyes and hopes that he'll be cast into the throes of the day-sleep, and the feeling will go away.
Somewhere in the middle of the day, his eyes snap open. Bloody sweat drips down his forehead, and his breathing is heavy. He's completely paralyzed on his bed; a look of shock is etched on his pale features.
That's when he sees...it. While perched at an odd angle, it stares down on him. There's a faint, distant humming noise. Thrumming and snarling soon follow.
Gregory gulps, his fingers barely twitching. He helplessly stares up at the figure, his body refusing to move an inch. His lips quaver in the slightest.
The creature of the Blood- the Aapilu- stares at Gregory with its 5 eyes.
5 eyes that Gregory himself is very familiar with. 1 pair belonged to his late wife; the middle eye is that of his late daughter; the last pair of eyes...are his own.
The Aapilu is the size of a full-grown humanoid. It has gray, ashen skin that almost shimmer like scales when viewed from certain angles. It's sweating Blood, and profusely. The Aapilu's face is mouthless, with the 5 eyes taking up most of its facial real estate.
Its 6 long, skinny fingers have claws in lieu of nails. Dark, spiky, and leaking some kind of black substance. The creature's 2 legs are as sturdy as tree trunks.
Its 5 eyes burrow into Gregory's very being. He lets out a weak, shaky gasp. The creature's eyes are unblinking, and the longer he stares into those eyes, the deeper they seem to sink into his very essence.
Words fail to come out of his mouth. He tries to speak, but no words are uttered.
The Aapilu makes a few dreadful clicking noises and moves closer. Its head tilts to the side and it leans forward. Its face is now mere millimeters away from Gregory's own.
It stares, and the Toreador is helpless but to stare back.
Aapilum (singular Aapilu) are a form of "spiritual" being that metaphysically resides within the Vitae of every single vampire in the world. Whyever is Gregory's Aapilu manifesting and interacting with him, then?
And why now?
There are numerous theories and interpretations as to what exactly an Aapilu is and what they're supposed to represent.
Nevertheless, this creature of the Blood has been tormenting Cassandra's Domitor for months on end.
Gregory has always been a bit of a withdrawn and somewhat jaded man (reasons not necessarily connected to the Aapilu, of course) but his attitude and outlook has gotten somewhat worse ever since.
The Aapilu whispers all kinds of things through Gregory's Blood. Is that why he's so keen on closing everything and moving on with a "clean slate"? But to where? Is that why he's sending Cassandra in his place?
Gregory stares into the eye in the middle of the creature's face. His late daughter. A few tears of blood stream down his cheeks.
The creature makes a strange gurgling noise and retreats, its body dissolving into a dark, black smoke. A foul and acrid odor permeates throughout the man's bedroom.
Gregory's eyes soon glaze over, and he gets yanked into the day-sleep, despite the creature's lingering presence.
There are many questions, but they shall be answered in due time.
Act 2: Brujah
"The Brujah Clan are many things. Passionate (but not like us Toreador), angry, and loud. Sometimes that rage tends to boil over and lead into rather nasty and unpleasant conflicts. Their temperaments are quite volatile, and it's a rare moment when a Brujah isn't arguing or debating with someone. Nevertheless, I find them rather tolerable. Some Brujah are very well-read and knowledgeable, and that is to their credit." -From the personal diaries of Gregory | Entry: On The Brujah.
The sun rises in this part of the world. Unlike her immortal master, Cassandra can't really spend the whole bloody day in bed. While still in the nude, she pushes open a window and sighs contentedly as a gentle breeze flows into her room.
She looks at the nature surrounding her cozy little cottage and smiles widely. Despite the gray gloominess, there are some warm colors thrown about. The nearby flowers are a pretty shade of pink.
The air is crisp and clean. There are birds singing and chirping in the background. Cassandra extends her hand and the rays of the sun touch her skin. She grins, her cheeks warming up.
This is nice, she thinks to herself. At least she's able to experience the waking world, unlike the one whose Blood she is reliant on for the lite version of immortality.
She turns away from the window and readies herself for a bath. She walks to the bathroom and brushes her teeth while badly singing some or the other song. She spits out the Colgate toothpaste into the sink and wipes her mouth.
She then plugs the tub and lets the water run. It's on the warmer side, just the way she likes it. The Ghoul settles into the water with a small titter. Cass spends an awful lot of time in there, letting the warm, bubbly water soak her entire body.
She then grabs her cellphone and shoots Amy a few goofy texts, throwing in a few random emojis to boot. Cassandra giggles softly and sets her phone aside, a small smile lingering on her lips.
Cassandra went absolutely crazy when emojis first became a thing. She practically spammed them everywhere and used them all the time.
Amy's response is a series of suggestive texts and a few question marks. She still doesn't get the thought process behind the Ghoul's steady stream of random emojis.
But it's all in good fun, yeah.
After washing her hair, scrubbing her body, and soaking herself, she gets dressed and goes about her day. She idly lazes around, does a wee bit of cleaning and rearranging, and then pops out to the nearby pound shop.
This time, Cassandra doesn't take the Lexus. She decides to go by foot. She has her phone in hand. She sees an older lady walking a really pampered-looking Pomeranian. The dog looks at Cass and barks loudly.
Cassandra uneasily winces and looks down at the pavement. She quickens her pace, eager to get as far away from the barking dog as possible- she's not much of a dog or cat person. But she does have a soft spot for capybaras, despite never having physically seen any in all her life.
She reckons, "Maybe I should go to the city's zoo and check if there are any, yeah?"
As she makes her way, she notices that her cellphone is vibrating. It's Amy.
Cass smirks and brings the phone up to her ear, "Couldn't keep away, eh?"
"You know me all too well, Cassie."
"Oh, do I, now? You're in a cheeky mood today, ain't you? Heading to work?"
Amy answers, "Mm-hmm. School admin is hardly exciting, but it keeps the lights and heating on."
Cassandra inquires, "Did they fix the cracks on the walls yet? You told me about it a few weeks ago, remember?"
Amy scoffs, "Bloody bastards put it off till the next election cycle. Tossers, tch. The cracks have actually gotten bigger, if you can believe it. 1 of the kids got scared that a wall was going to come crashing down on them! I share the same apprehensions, too."
Cassandra gasps, "Cor blimey! That's scary! How's everybody else handling this mess?"
"Petitions, Facebook posts, talking to bloggers who are barely read by anyone, the usual. We're not using our own funds to patch the bloody cracks because we're already running on a bloody deficit! This isn't right."
Cassandra asks, "Is there anything that I can do from me end? Like, reach out to our local MPs--"
"Fuck that. We've tried that already. I voted for the bugger. And she even dropped around for her usual photo-ops and shit. But when push comes to shove, that lot forget all about their own bloody constituents and go gallivanting off with the party bigwigs."
Cassandra sighs, "Well, I'll see what I can do, yeah? Have you tried Twitter? You'd be surprised how--"
Amy clicks her tongue in mild annoyance, "We've exhausted every available option, sweetheart. We even 'ave a WhatsApp group. Or HAD a WhatsApp group, more like. It devolved into a petty shouting match. Sort of like a catfight. I still have the screenshots saved; some of it is a right laugh!"
Cassandra crosses the road and nods, "Yeah. Some people can be massive twats, eh? Not all people, but some people. And those are unfortunately the ones who usually have the pull, power, and influence over the rest of us."
Amy chuckles, "Speaking from experience, are you? You're not even 30, babe. Why do you sound a lot older than you look? But you do look awfully sexy."
Cassandra laughs softly, "Oh, please! I--I--it's complicated, right?"
"We're complicated. But that's what makes us so exciting and fun, yeah?"
Cassandra stops and waves at the mailman, "I guess you're right. Anyways, I'm going to the pound shop, right? You...err...you want me to get you something?"
Amy replies, "Oh, no, no, no. Please. I'm fine. Really, I'm fine. Have yourself a lovely day. Mwah! Cheers!"
Cassandra makes a kissy sound back, "Mwah! Byee! Talk later, yeah? Send me a text, preferably something spicy. You know how...hot I like it."
"Will do, dear. Will do. Ciao!" Amy hangs up.
The Ghoul smiles and enters the pound shop, her Blackberry cellphone clutched tightly in her left hand. The establishment in question is fairly modern-looking. The moldy patches on the walls, however, are not easy to look away from.
Cassandra walks down the aisles with an easygoing smile on her face. She stops at the section that is filled with all sorts of cloths. She needs a few wiping cloths for keeping her cottage clean. The ones that she currently has were brought over from London and are quite worn-out.
She tosses a few packs of various colors and continues with her shopping. Cass drags her wheelie-trolley and walks to the next aisle. The employees seem to be a lot older than your average retail worker.
She swears that she once overheard an employee talk about how their pension was insufficient for their daily living expenses. Hence their need to seek this job and work extra hard. Cassandra still shudders whenever that conversation replays in her mind.
The Ghoul still remembers that man's harsh Cockney accent and the way his eyes drooped as he spoke. She doesn't see much of him around anymore, and she's been a bit shy to go around asking about him.
Cassandra grabs a few hand-wiping cloths while she's at it. These feel soft to the touch and are only £1.50!
She hoists her wheelie-trolley onto the conveyor belt and stands in line. She glances at the various newspapers displayed on the stand beside her. She snags a copy of the Guardian while cringing at the copies of the Sun and the Daily Mail. She also nabs another copy for her Domitor.
Cassandra pays with cash, says a sincere thank-you to the freckled-face lad working the till, and exits the establishment with her purchases in a plastic bag. She takes a deep breath of fresh air and walks on her merry way.
Sometime before actual lunchtime, her stomach growls a bit. She stops and checks out her phone. There are a few texts from Amy.
Cassandra bites her lower lip and reads them. She sits on a wooden bench by the nearby park. There are a few children running around, laughing loudly.
Cassandra's fingers mash into the keys of her Blackberry cellphone and she texts Amy back. She can't help but grin at every message.
She eventually goes around to asking: "What should I get 4 lunch?"
Amy texts back: "Scampi fries, I reckon? And no, I'm not free to meet up right now. Work. And allaying fears about the cracking walls of this school."
Cassandra pouts and replies: "Maybe later this week?"
Amy huffs a sigh: "Cass, love, you can get a bit clingy sometimes..."
Cassandra's brows knit together and her expression falls a little: "You say that like it's a bad thing, Amy. We're...err...you know..."
Amy rolls her eyes: "Yes. Now, I have a call coming in. We'll meet when we meet. That's that. I don't want anyone getting suspicious. The only way this works is if we be discreet about the whole thing. Getting caught is not in either of our best interests."
Cassandra sighs and types: "I'm sorry. I just...like you so much, yeah? I enjoy being with you and all. Me making you laugh is always brings a smile to me own face, innit?"
Amy smirks: "Oh, you're sweet, Cassie. I have GOT to go now. Bye. XOXO!"
Cassandra responds with a kiss mark emoji. After that, she grabs her shopping and heads off to find some scampi fries for today's lunch. She's rather peckish, and she hopes that scampi fries will be able to satisfy that hunger.
The rest of her afternoon goes by. A light rain begins to pelt the city once the sun begins its rather unceremonious departure from the sky. Cassandra spends a few hours binging some whatever's on the telly while texting back and forth with Amy.
Amy's replies are sporadic and somewhat dry, while Cassandra's texts are a lot more enthusiastic and frequent. Cassandra has no idea as to what the telly is even showing, but the background noise is nice.
She lays her head down for a quick nap. Within seconds, she's out. After about a few minutes, her eyes pop open and she lets out a grating yawn. Her hands instinctively reach for her cellphone.
Cassandra rubs her eyes and sits up. She opens up the message app and sends Amy a few more texts. No reply is forthcoming, however. Cass frowns and decides to give it some time.
For now, she has to get ready to carry out the will of her Domitor. She freshens up in the bathroom and changes her clothing. Since Gregory is still rather vague about a great many things, she decides to wear something rather bland.
A nice off-white blouse, wide-legged pants, and very light makeup consisting of lip gloss (from the pound shop), eyeliner, and a touch of blush. Her long brown hair is tied into a bun...of sorts.
She smacks her lips a few times, chuckles at her reflection, and grabs her handbag. She heads out into the rainy night with a large umbrella and makes her way over to Gregory's Haven.
The Toreador has already woken from his day-sleep. He'll stalk the shadows for his prey a bit later. For now, his inner Beast is as quiet as a church mouse. Gregory stands in front of a vanity mirror and examines himself.
He looks dull, tired, and older than he actually is. His skin is paler than usual, and there are some deep lines on his face. He shakes his head and groans as he walks away from the mirror. He glances at the bed and sees how bloodied the sheets and pillows are.
"I'll change it myself. I don't want Cassandra seeing this and bombarding me with questions. Questions for which I simply lack a cogent answer to."
Gregory lets his Ghoul in and wordlessly ushers her to the living room.
Cassandra greets him earnestly, "Hiya, Greg! Sleep well?"
He dryly replies, "Yes."
Cassandra regards him with a concerned look, "Not gonna ask how me day was? You...usually do that."
Gregory stifles a sigh, "Was it pleasant?"
Cassandra smiles widely and declares, "I had scampi fries! I also popped over to the nearby pound shop. That mold's getting worse, yeah? They ought to fix that up."
Gregory blinks, "Hm. Sit. There's much that needs to be discussed before I can officially send you off."
Cassandra sits down on the plush sofa and places her handbag next on the center table. A tight smile is plastered on her face, and she keeps glancing at Gregory out of the corner of her eyes.
He's in the kitchen, milling about and checking the state of the fridge. He mainly keeps it stocked in case a mortal guest shows up and is in need of some hospitality. The Toreador, however, doesn't keep bags of blood in there. He's not a bagger. He hunts for his meals.
Gregory walks into the living room with a bowl of crisps. He puts it on the center table and plainly gestures towards it, "If you'd like."
Cass grabs a single piece, thanks her Domitor for his consideration, and bites down. Gregory watches her chew with a rather unreadable expression on his face.
The crunching sounds fill the living room as Cassandra continues to chow down on the crisps.
Gregory begins, "I owe the Brujah a favor. I believe that now is the time to make good on that promise."
Cassandra finishes chewing, "Oh. What kind of favor?"
"It was open-ended. If they ever needed me, they were free to call upon me and I'd come running. Now, I'm authorizing you to do that running on my behalf. Do whatever they tell you without fail, Cassandra. It's in both of our best interests to remain on their good side."
Cassandra's shaky hand reaches out for another crisp, "What if they ask me to...do something messed up? Or something downright illegal? I don't wanna go to jail, Greg! Or get me head chopped off because I inadvertently breached the Masquerade or something!"
Gregory sighs, "I'll take...some responsibility for your actions. It's only fair, I suppose. That being said, don't make a catastrophic mess out of things. You're not a child, Cassandra."
"Condescending much? I know how old I am...and how old I really am. Blimey. Sorry. So, I represent you, eh? It won't be anything too outlandish, would it?"
"I haven't a clue what the Brujah have planned. I'm not going to lie to you. Be prepared for anything that they might throw your way."
"Who exactly do you owe this favor to, anyway? I've never heard about any of this before this evening! Why am I hearing about all of this now? Why are you keeping stuff from me, Greg?"
Gregory shrugs, "Because I didn't feel that it was relevant in the performing of your duties as my Ghoul. There are a good many reasons why I have kept you in the dark in regard to certain matters pertaining to Kindred Society and its broader happenings. But that ends tonight."
He emphasizes, "You won't just be representing me; you'll be representing me AND our Clan while dealing with the Brujah. Be on your best behavior, Cassandra. No quips or witty retorts. You have to be...a lot more serious than usual."
Cassandra fumbles with her crisp, "I--I can be serious. When I want to, yeah. I'm serious and plenty responsible! Got employee of the month at work, y'know?"
"Yes. In regard to your work, your vacation officially starts now. I've already taken the liberty of speaking with your superiors. We have to make the most out of these next few nights. It's quite possible that we won't be seeing each other for a good while."
"How far are you sending me, anyway?"
The Toreador Domitor flatly answers, "It depends. Ensure that the Lexus has enough petrol in it."
Cassandra licks her lips and asks, "Will you be sending me back to London?"
"No. Not with those blasted Garou running all over the place- the risk is far too great. Everyone that I know from London has either met their Final Death, moved out- like us, or have fled."
Cassandra shakily laughs, "We--we got out of London just in time, yeah?"
"Yes."
The Garou Nation (werewolves) were responsible for bringing about what is now dubbed the "Fall of London". They came in and viciously purged that entire Domain of its deeply entrenched bloodsucker population.
Greg and Cass moved out of the city long before the attacks began.
The Garou waged their war on multiple fronts (dimensions). They moved from the Umbra to the physical world and back again. They used any means necessary to get the job done. By the end of it, the ashes of many Kindred were a testament to the savage might and power of Gaia's mightiest warriors.
And now, London is firmly Garou country. But why?
Because the werewolves are preparing for a war against the water companies that have been polluting Gaia's oceans and seas (all those nasty sewerage discharges and spills in the UK, for instance). That's their primary concern.
The wolves are readying themselves, training vigorously, bringing new cubs into their fold, and getting stronger by the day. In another decade, they hope to bring the fight to the Bane Spirit of the Filthy Iguana (which has its talons deep in the water bosses and corporations).
Driving out the Kindred was a necessary component of the Garou's plans. They needed a staging ground from which to launch their attacks on the privatized water companies.
Bringing about the Fall of London was absolutely necessary to this end. The Garou couldn't possibly launch their campaign from the heart of Kindred territory.
The attacks were savage and caught the entirety of the Camarilla elite by surprise. By the time it was over, the ashes of many supposedly untouchable Cainites were all that was left of the legacies that they had spent centuries cultivating.
Even the Ghouls were not spared.
For instance, Gregory's own Sire was torn apart by a large pack of werewolves while attempting to flee from them. Even till now, many of London's survivors (Ghouls, Kindred, or otherwise) haven't fully recovered from the traumas and horrors visited upon them by the Garou Nation.
(As an aside, there are many Fomori compromising and tainting the UK's Environment Agency from within, so the warriors of Gaia have their work cut out for them.)
Anyways...
Gregory fixes his Ghoul with a significant look, "I intend to get even with the Brujah before the next sunrise. Whatever they ask of you- no matter how trivial it may seem- do it to the best of your abilities. Yes?"
Cassandra's expression gets a lot more serious. She nods, "Fine. Yeah. Where am I supposed to be, anyway?"
"The Horn 'N' Stag pub. It's quite a way off from where we are, so you best take the Lexus if you want to reach there quicker."
She asks, "What do I tell them if they ask me who I am and where you are?"
Gregory answers, "Tell them what I told you: you are a Ghoul who is authorized- fully- to act on behalf of her Domitor. There will be no need for them to come around and seek me out. And I would prefer it if I weren't dragged into any further messes."
Cassandra slowly exhales, "Wow. OK. It's not gonna be too hard of a task, right?"
"I don't know what they'll throw at you. Just...try to keep a low profile. Don't call me unless it's an emergency. We don't want to draw any unneeded attention to ourselves. Especially with how...compromised phones may be."
"Tch, yeah. Don't remind me. We have to change ours soon, yeah? We're not taking any chances! We can't, right?"
"Hmm. Tell them that I sent you. The Brujah will know me. They all know who I am. I owe an Elder named Winston. If Winston isn't there, find a man named Harry- he'll point you in the right direction. Winston usually hangs around the pub; it's where we conducted most of our business dealings and negotiations."
"Oh. Nice! Sure, yeah. Anything else before I go off?"
Gregory grimly tells her, "Be very cautious, Cassandra. Be vigilant at all times. If you feel that something is amiss or that someone is watching you, then do your best to get out of the situation. Do not be afraid to defend yourself if need be."
Cassandra's expression falters, "Cor blimey. Defend meself against...?" She lets the question linger in the air.
Gregory shrugs, "If that's not an option, then run as fast as you can. Do whatever you can to slow down your pursuer...or pursuers. We've already established that you are not a warrior. And I myself have no issue with admitting that I'm not exactly cut out for combat either. But please be careful out there."
Cassandra chuckles uneasily, "You know how much I love me life, Greg! I love living in this world! You know how much I--I love being a Ghoul, forever me age and all that other stuff! I--I'll do my best, pro--promise."
He nods, "Yes. So please, please be very careful. Only reach out to me if absolutely necessary. I've told you all that you need to know...for now. If anyone raises a fuss with the arrangement, feel free to take on a more assertive tone. Be polite, but don't let them push you around. Then again, with Brujah, you're going to want to have a bit of thick skin."
Cassandra bites her lip, "Oh. Uh...sure, yeah, I can do that. I think."
Gregory notes, "You know quite a lot about the Brujah Clan. Use that to your advantage. As a matter of fact, utilize everything that you know to the best of your ability. The more information that you have in regard to any given subject, the easier it is for you to formulate a plan. And you possess a great deal of information."
Cassandra laughs softly and taps her head, "It's all in here, innit?"
"Hmm. I hope that those lessons were well worth your time and effort. You know things about Kindred Society that even I do not. It's undoubtedly a lot of information. But you've done well in retaining most of it, yes?"
Cassandra musters up a smile, "Mm-hmm. Are we sure that the Brujah aren't planning to pull some kind of nasty trick on us?"
"The Brujah are many things. But they aren't crass tricksters. Well, not this lot anyway. They may not be as well-liked as the Gangrel who mill about near the city's zoo, but they are not deceitful. They can, however, be given to their anger. You must be careful about how you approach them. And watch your words around some of them. You wouldn't want to set them off because of a poorly chosen word."
She winces, "I--I don't. Yeah, I know how...err...testy the Punks can get. So, Horn 'N' Stag pub, Winston. Got it. And if he's not there, ask for Harry, yeah?"
Gregory smiles tightly, "Yes. Precisely. Good luck out there, Cassandra. Be safe. And come back...intact."
She faintly chuckles, grabs a few crisps on her way out, and leaves the Haven with a lot of thoughts going through her head.
The drive to this public house is quite long- there's a small buildup of traffic along a few major roads, and Cassandra has to make a few turns and use side streets to bypass the worst of the traffic. And the pouring rain isn't exactly helping matters.
The Ghoul eventually reaches the pub. She parks nearby and keenly stares at the establishment. Its exterior exudes a sort of rustic, old country charm. Its windows are completely opaque, and there's a warm yellowish glow emanating from within.
The sign out front depicts a twisted pair of antlers and a large black horn. She can faintly hear the dull roar of the patrons from within. The Toreador Ghoul grabs her handbag, exits her car, and crosses the street. The rain pelts her umbrella. She glances at the pub's windows once more and takes a deep breath.
She forces it out and pushes the front door open. All the laughter ceases when she steps inside. So many dead eyes turn their gaze towards her. A chill goes up her spine, and she can't help but flinch.
Cassandra is frozen in her spot. The interior of this pub is quite spacious. There are several tables and chairs spread about, a bar with a good many bottles behind it, and a rather large crowd of working-class vampires. A strong, odorous, and pungent smell hits her nose.
It's not necessarily a bad smell, but it is rather overpowering all the same.
A bald man with a scar across his face harshly asks, "Who are you?"
"C--Cassandra. I'm here to see a Winston."
"Winston, eh? Ah, shit. Oi, 'Arry! Some bird's here asking about Winston!"
A rather short and thin fellow with a round face, fair complexion, and dark, greasy hair emerges from the backroom. A bloodied baseball bat is casually swung over his right shoulder. A large scar is visible on his forehead.
He speaks with a sort of nasally and grating tone, "Who the 'ell are you? What do you want?"
Cassandra looks over his shoulder and gasps when she spots a dead body slumped over in the backroom. She quickly averts her gaze and tries her best not to think about what might have happened to that poor lass whose head is a mushy mess.
She says, "I--uh...My name's Cassandra. Gregory sent me."
Harry points his bloodied bat at her, "You're Gregory's Ghoul, eh? Where the 'ell is that fucking muppet?"
Cassandra nervously gulps, "He--he sent me. I am authorized to--to act on his behalf."
Harry groans and shakes his head, "Wonderful. He sent his Ghoul to do his dirty work. How typical of him. What did he tell you?"
Cassandra shakily points to the dead lady slumped over on the floor, "Wh--what happened to her?"
Harry looks over his shoulder and shrugs, "The clone was acting up. Had to be put down."
"Clone?!"
The Brujah plainly nods. He rubs the bloodied sleeve of his bomber jacket on the doorpost, "Yeah. She was a fucking clone. Not a real person. Stop gawking at me like that. She's hardly the first one who 'ad to be put down this week."
Harry nods over to a random Brujah wearing a pair of dark-blue coveralls, "Oi! Muppet! Take that shit off when you're in here, yeah? Hang it up over there." He uses the bat to point to a row of coat racks on the left-hand side.
Cassandra is getting a bit lightheaded. She blinks rapidly and sits down on the closest chair. She stammers, "She--she's not a real person?"
"What are you, daft? She was a clone, not a real human being! Dunno what happened to the original and the CODACORP security team- of which I am a part of- isn't paid to care about the...product."
Another random Punk lifts her scuffed bag of blood high in the air, "Aye! Hear, hear! We drink to all the dead clones, though? Right, Harry?"
Harry flatly nods, "Hmm. So, Gregory sent his Ghoul in his place. Can't say that I'm surprised by that, honestly."
Cassandra grimaces when asking, "Where's--where's Winston?"
Harry's chuckle is mirthless, "Wouldn't you just love to know. Oi, any of you wanna tell this bird where that Elder currently is?"
There's a resounding "No!" from the gathered Rebels.
Harry sighs and lowers his gaze, "Right. Here's the situation, love--"
A young lass comes bursting through the front door. She's drenched in rainwater and heaving for breath. Her clothing is a scattered mishmash of styles and patterns. There's an expression of abject horror on her fair face.
1 side of her chin-length hair is bleached blonde whilst the other side is brown like chocolate. Her eyes are a dull shade of green. She looks to be in her early-30s, at most. And she's absolutely fuming.
Harry glowers at her, "Marble Cake...what do you want--oh, shit--"
(It's not too hard to see why she's called that!)
Marble Cake points an accusatory finger at her fellow Brujah, "Where is she? The latest clone? Did--did you kill her? She--she was showing signs of--of higher thought! You bloody bastard, you already--"
Harry sighs heavily, "Oh, great. This is what happens when you go and make friends with the fuckin' clones! I 'ad to do her in, alright? She was acting all erratic and you know how pissy the company gets when their product tries to pull a runner. No risks, not when our salaries depend on it."
Cassandra quietly whispers, "Clones. Cor blimey, what the 'ell am I--am I getting meself into here?"
Marble Cake hears that and glares at the Ghoul, "Who even are you?"
Harry answers, "Gregory's girl. He was too chicken to show up himself. So, he sent her in his stead- the next best choice, I reckon. You wanna tell her what happened to Winston? You're here, so you 2 might as well 'ave a chin wag, because I'm tired of explaining what went wrong with him."
Marble Cake sighs and tosses her jacket onto a table. She lazily gestures for the Toreador Ghoul to follow her. The pair head to a table in the corner and sit across from each other. Marble Cake takes the seat closest to the wall.
She stares up at some pictures of employees in their CODACORP coveralls. The same dark blue outfits that Harry and many others were wearing.
Cassandra awkwardly introduces herself by holding out her trembling hand. Marble Cake simply shakes it.
Cass twitches at how deathly cold the other woman's fingers are, "Uh...yeah, hiya. I'm Cassandra."
The Brujah motions to the way her hair is colored, "Most of the people around here call me 'Marble Cake'. I don't give out my real name so easily...Cassandra. It's a pretty name, I suppose."
"Th--thanks. You've got...err...nice hair, yeah."
Marble Cake faintly chuckles, "It's some nearly expired hair coloring that I nicked from the Asda's beauty aisle."
She leans closer and growls a bit, "And if you see me blagging stuff, then you didn't? Alright?"
Cassandra gulps and nods, "Yeah. No problem, y--yeah. Sure."
"Times are tough, love. I do what I have to do to cut corners. This city isn't getting any cheaper by the night. The prices keep rising and rising."
"Tell me about it! So, can I meet Winston? Gregory sent me. As his Ghoul, I have been fully authorized to act, speak, and even negotiate on his behalf. That's why I'm here. I need to see Winston."
A look of uneasiness washes over the Rebel's face, "Winston. Ah. About that..."
"What happened?"
A slight screeching noise echoes throughout the pub as Marble Cake winces slightly, "Yeah, that happened."
"What??!"
Marble Cake patiently explains, "He Frenzied. Bad. Real bad, actually. He turned into a Wight. Some of us nearly lost our limbs trying to contain him. This was a few nights ago. We've managed to contain him down in the sewers. In his state, he's already killed 2 sewage workers."
Cassandra's eyes widen to an impossible degree, "Bloody hell, he's a Wight?!"
Marble Cake grimly nods, "Yup. Harry, in his infinite wisdom, doesn't want to tell a damned soul about it. Usually, it's up to the Sheriff to come in and put down anyone who's succumbed to the Wassail, but 'Arry wants it all done...discreetly. If the Sheriff finds out that we have an Elder Wight on our hands, we'll all be in deep shit."
Cassandra is at a loss for words.
Harry returns, having washed all the blood stains from himself. He drags a chair and sits between the 2 women, "I hope that you're done catching her up on all the shite that's happened around 'ere?"
Marble Cake silently nods.
Harry turns his attention to Cass, "Winston's down in the sewers. He's gone. Fucking gone. I sent in a good lad of mine to try and turn him to ashes. No response. I'm not losing a 4th person to that fucking muppet."
He pulls out a pack of cigarettes and lights 1. He hands the pack to Cass, who declines it with a wave of her hand.
Harry forcefully exhales smoke and leans closer, "We've got a bit of a situation, yeah? Normally, we'd send the Childe in to take care of their Frenzying Sire, but Clive- that fucking muppet- is not amongst us. Ran off to America years ago, he did. Winston's other Childer, meanwhile, aren't anywhere close by. None of them are. Fucking muppets."
(He really likes calling people fucking muppets.)
Marble Cake snatches a cigarette from her fellow Punk and lights it up. The brief flicker of the flame causes her to shudder.
Harry continues, "So, the only thing that we've got left on our grubby little hands is a Frenzied Elder. The longer this goes on, the harder it gets to keep everything under wraps."
He jabs a finger at the Ghoul, "And that's where you come in."
Cassandra's jaw drops, "What? What do I have to do with any--any of this?!"
Harry mentions, "Your Gregory is partly the reason why Winston's a senseless Wight now. Your Domitor pressured an Elder of our Clan to acquire some or the other rare piece of scribbling for some or the other fucking muppet buddy of his."
He points a thumb at the backroom, "And Winston went out of his way to try and secure that piece. You know the funny thing? He actually got the scribbling. I don't see the appeal in it, personally. None of us do, but we can't deny the fact that Winston had a way with the arts. He had an eye for that sort of thing."
Harry bitterly goes on, "Tried to teach us about it, but we're too busy working our arses off to be worrying about any of that. The last time that I saw the scribbling was a couple of nights ago, before the Final Frenzy took hold of the poor sod. Then...the screaming started..." He trails off and vacantly stares at the front door.
Marble Cake takes over, "He's...strong. He--he was strong. We were lucky to even contain him. I've seen what a Wight can do. It's not pretty. And him being an Elder only makes things immensely harder for us. His Disciplines are stronger. His power and strength--"
Harry clicks his tongue, "Don't talk him up so much. If your Gregory hadn't pushed our Winston so bloody hard just for some scribbling, then we wouldn't be in this mess."
Cassandra avoids making eye contact with the 2 Punks, "Hey, listen, I'm not trying to stir up any trouble with you lot, yeah? Just--just call the Sheriff, get a Blood Hunt declared and--and finish him off, yeah?"
Harry scoffs, "A Blood Hunt? Blimey, you seem to know a lot about us, eh? Hmph. Greg is responsible; therefore, it falls upon Greg to come 'ere and fix this mess that his shady dealings 'ave caused!"
Cassandra gulps and lamely states, "He--he's busy."
Harry retorts, "I don't care--"
Marble Cake places her hand on top of Harry's hand, "'Arry, the Toreador has...authorized this one to act on his behalf." She fixes him with an inscrutable gaze.
Harry frowns at her, and Marble Cake lightly nods.
He looks at Cass with a certain glint in his dead eyes, "Well, isn't Gregory just full of surprises, eh? So, you're his additional pair of limbs, eyes, ears, all that shite, yeah?"
Cassandra swallows a lump forming in her throat, "Err...yes. He--he told me to find a Winston, so..."
Harry plainly states, "You'll get your expensive drawing AFTER you do us a favor, love. You don't look stupid, so you can already guess where this is headed, hmm? You want the drawing; we want Winston dusted before he can cause a bigger mess. It's a simple exchange. After that, we're even."
Oh, shit.
Cassandra's entire body shakes with fear, "W--wait, wait. What are you--are you saying that I've gotta go into the sewers and try to--to destroy A FRENZYING ELDER?! Are you mental?!"
Harry doesn't flinch, "Take consolation in the fact that he's probably been weakened a bit, yeah? He doesn't 'ave all his senses about him, so it should be easy to sneak around him. He needs to be destroyed and you're the lass for the job."
Cassandra erratically gestures to all the other Brujah in this pub and loudly asks, "Well, why the 'ell can't THEY do it? I'm a Ghoul! I'm not like you lot! This is utterly mad!"
Harry's voice is barely above a whisper, "Because it's not their responsibility, love. We already have jobs that suck the Unlife out of us. You try being a part of the CODACORP security team, running security for all those fancy cryo-pods and shite. Most of us get back home minutes before sunrise."
His tone suddenly turns bitter, "And the pay's absolute shite. But the projects are...somewhat exciting. The cryogenics is all a front for the real stuff- human cloning. This job...it--it keeps us stable; it provides us with an--an outlet."
Cassandra blandly asks, "An outlet for what?"
Marble Cake regards her with narrowed eyes, "You know the Brujah Clan Bane?"
The Ghoul nods, "I do, yeah. Violent Temper. Quick to anger and slow to come down from it."
"Right. For many of us, employment at CODACORP provides us with a sense of stability, camaraderie, and the occasional row...but in a safe space. And it helps that we're doing good work."
Cassandra's face scrunches up, "I don't know if I'd call human cloning 'good work'. There are a lot of ethical--"
Harry dismissively waves his hand, "Oh, sod that! We also provide specialized pods for the Orpheus Group. You know who they are, love? They're like...eh...ghost-whisperers, yeah. We manufacture those freezy pods for them so they can go and talk to dead people, calm them, put 'em at ease, and help 'em move on, yeah?"
"Oh. Oh, wow."
Marble Cake concludes, "So, as you can imagine, we're fairly busy most nights. This is simply our breaktime; work and even more work take up the remainder of our endless nights. You've barely got more time and energy to spare on other things. We couldn't destroy Winston even if we wanted to."
Harry growls and puts in, "Too many obligations...like disposing of the runaway product. The whole cloning thing is to solve the Hunger crisis that's worsening among our kind. Their blood is synthetic, sure, but you'll get used to its taste...eventually. You think we're making clones for kicks? It's bloody intense work!"
Cassandra prods, "And what exactly do you do, Harry?"
"I'm a security guard. I carry a gun which I barely get to use- not that I'd ever need it, anyway. Got me fists and legs to do all the talking. A lot of the people in here work the same shift as I do."
Marble Cake rubs her face and exhales sharply, "I myself am a...technical researcher. I--I don't look the part, haha! But that's what I am. We've recently shipped out a large order to an Orpheus subsidiary in Magnolia City, USA. Cryonics, cloning, I work on it all for pitiful pay."
Harry chuckles and pats his fellow Rebel on the back, "That's how we all feel, Marb...that's how we all feel. So, you ready to do a small, wee favor for us, Cassandra?"
Cassandra's face tics. She asks where the telephone is.
Harry vaguely gestures in some direction, "The dog and bone's near the back. Right next to the bathrooms. Hold your nose, hahahaha!"
Cassandra gets up and heads to the ol' dog and bone to give her Domitor a ring. She inserts a few coins into its rusted slot. It's a rotor phone with an old-fashioned feel to it. She dials Greg's number, and the line begins ringing.
"Speaking."
"It's me."
Gregory sighs heavily, "What is it now? I'm busy. I only told you to call me if it was something important."
Cassandra's voice cracks as she asks, "Can't you just--can't you please come here and do this? P--please?"
Gregory clicks his tongue, "No. I'm busy. Very busy. Whatever it is, you'll have to handle it on your own. And make sure you get the painting. Winston can be a bit stubborn on the price, but don't let him corner you."
The words get caught in Cassandra's throat, and she can only let out a hopeless whimper.
The Toreador asks, "What's the matter? Hello? Are you still there?"
Cassandra meekly answers, "I--I am, yeah."
"We shouldn't talk about this over the phone. You and I both know why. Whatever it is, just get it done, alright?"
"Y--yeah. Sure. I--I won't let you down, right?"
"That's the idea. Now, please, don't phone me until you've got the painting." He hangs up.
Cassandra slowly sets the grimy phone back on its holder. She takes a deep breath and exhales through her nose.
Harry and Marble Cake are having a very hush-hush talk with each other. The latter asks if it was wise to go and give Cassandra such vital company information.
The former derisively scoffs and states, "If those fucking muppets want me to zip me lips, then they'd do well to pay us more. Until then, I'm tellin' everyone and their dog about what it is that we do. It's no secret."
He turns his head to see Cassandra making her way over, "Oh, you're back. What'd that Toreador muppet say? Has he changed his mind?"
Cassandra has a defeated expression written across her face. She slowly shakes her head from side to side, "No. I...I can't leave without the painting."
Harry repeats the terms, "And I'm not letting you leave until that screeching mess down in the sewers has been turned to ashes. And don't even think of trying to blag that scribbling from right under our hairy noses! We're watching you. We're watching every bloody thing that you do, Ghoul."
Marble Cake nudges Harry, "Oi! Not so rash! She's smart enough to understand what's at stake over 'ere. No need to go and scare the remaining color out of her, 'Arry! Tch."
Harry rises from the chair and dusts himself off, "You wanna see the scribbling, yeah? I know how...enraptured you Toreadors can get when art's involved. C'mon, love, this way. And don't even think of trying to pull a runner- you won't make it past the front door before we're all on you!"
Cassandra numbly follows him and tries to keep her hands from shaking. Marble Cake puts her cold arm around the Ghoul's slumped shoulders.
The Brujah softly encourages, "Don't let him scare you. We're all rather tense around 'ere, lately. With Winston being the way he is and all. It came as a--a shocker to all of us."
Cassandra looks down at her feet, "Why'd he turn? How'd he turn?"
"I don't know the specifics, love. All I know is that it...just happened. And now we're still here, dealing with the aftermath."
"And you want me to...go down there and finish him off?"
"That's the idea."
Harry pulls a tatty old sheet from and reveals the painting. He grumbles, "Here, 'ave a gander at the thing. Worth millions of pounds, apparently. Fucking millions. What kind of muppet drops millions of quid on...what the 'ell is it?"
He squints and slightly bends forward, "Is that a woman's body?"
The painting in question is all dark colors. It appears to be a close up of a woman placing a hand on her chest. The colors are all muted- dark gray, and black. A lot of literal erratic scribbles have been painted over the entire canvas.
Nothing much is clear in this piece.
Cassandra asks, "Did the painting cause Winston to Frenzy? It certainly looks...unsettling. Eerie, even."
Harry scoffs, "You sound like a Malkavian. Mental muppets, that lot. Don't like 'em, never did. What the 'ell does Gregory even want with whatever this is supposed to be? Winston claimed that it was an 'otherworldly, priceless painting.' A lot of good that did him in the end. Pfft."
Marble Cake comments, "Due to how intensive our work can get, we don't really get time to...appreciate the arts or all the other finer things in Unlife. I missed a gallery opening because I was busy working on some or the other cryo-pod component. Such is the unremarkable Unlife of a CODACORP employee."
Cassandra is at a loss for further words.
Harry prods, "Let me guess: it's gonna collect dust in the house of some fucking millionaire muppet, yeah? Who is this drawing for, anyway? Or does your Domitor not tell you anything? Hmph."
He throws the tattered sheet back over the painting and leans on the wall, "Listen, I lost a good mate of mine. Sending him in was a mistake on my part, I'll admit. And covering up the deaths of 2 sewage workers is not something I take pride in. All the more reason to put Winston down. Now, tonight."
Cassandra mumbles, "I--I'm not privy to a lot of what Greg gets up to. I'm only vaguely aware of what he does- I know that it involves dealing in--in art and stuff. He doesn't really like talking much about it."
Marble Cake quips, "I can see why! Don't worry, Cassandra. We'll give you...adequate tools to complete the job on our behalf. And no, if you try and lure him out into the open when the sun's up, that'd complicate things further for us. That's the last thing we need."
Cassandra blows a raspberry, "I'm here and I'm n--not leaving. You lot won't let me. Fine, I--I'll do it. And after tonight, we'll be square, yeah?"
Harry gives her his word, "Yes. For what it's worth, I'll be glad to see the back of Gregory. He's partially responsible for this mess. And you're here to clean it up. After that, bugger off back to your posh, gilded lie of a life and leave us common muppets be."
Cassandra counters, "I'm not posh! Do I sound posh to you?"
Harry chuckles, "Hm. Whatever. Marble Cake, take her downstairs and get her equipped, yeah?"
"Sure. Come along, love. I have to warn you now: we don't exactly have the best equipment. And trying to requisition anything from our vast arsenal is more of a bureaucratic nightmare than anything else. Our employers are very...particular about their toys falling into the wrong hands. This is a big-big company, after all."
The Punk ruefully adds, "A big-big company that reports record quarterlies but routinely lays off a whole swath of employees with a few flicks of the wrist."
The pair of ladies go downstairs to a dimly lit corridor. A reinforced metal door is at the farthest end. The floor and walls are a drab, dark gray color. 2 individuals in CODACORP coveralls are guarding the door, holding their company-issued assault rifles.
The duo eye the 2 women approaching and immediately straighten their postures.
A bald man with a styled mustache nods at Marble Cake, "Who's this?"
Marble Cake shrugs, "Is Winston still banging on the door?"
The other person next to mustache man shakes their head, "He came by a few times, snarling and--and screeching at us. Blood was just flowing down his mouth. He stared at us for a few seconds, then he moved on, shambling about like a drunken sod. We heard a lot of crashing and banging noises, then it went quiet."
Bald mustache lad nods, "Mm-hmm. You found a solution to deal with this? Because neither of us are equipped to deal with an Elder who's lost his marbles."
Marble Cake explains, "This one's from the Toreador Clan. She's a Ghoul. Gregory's Ghoul, if you can believe it. We're sending her in."
Both individuals look at Cassandra, then back at Marble Cake, "What?!"
Marble Cake dryly orders the bald fella, "Give her your old supplies you leave lying around. I'll grab some petrol from upstairs. Do those flares of ours still work?"
He checks the watch on his wrist, "They should work...in theory. It's been decades since they've been used. This is all quite short notice, Marb. Are you sure that it's wise sending someone like her into the fray?"
She doesn't answer and starts heading back upstairs.
The man extends his icy hand, "Name's Charlie! C'mon, I'll show you me old toys that I've still kept with me...even after all these years. Oi, wait here and guard the door, alright?"
The other Brujah gives a thumbs up and returns to their previous stance.
Cassandra's hands are shaking. Her lips quiver as she tries to speak, "S--so, what is it exactly that you do?"
Charlie snickers, "Don't the coveralls give it away? I work security for CODACORP. As a matter of fact, a lot of us Agitators are employed by CODACORP. I'd be lying if I said that it was gainful employment, but it keeps the old roof over me head, so I won't dare complain too loudly. The pay's not great, but the hours are manageable...for our kind, at least."
Cassandra tries her luck, "Do you have a--a flamethrower? It would make things a lot easier."
"Funny you should ask. I left mine back in Somme. Not exactly pleasant memories. And the smell of burnt German flesh isn't exactly something you easily forget. Got jumped and Embraced while out on patrol. The rest is...history."
There's this sort of traumatized look in Charlies dead eyes. He still shows signs of shellshock. The imperialist slaughterhouse of WW1 was no laughing matter.
Charlie takes Cassandra to a cramped room full of lockers. He groans and scratches his neck, "I'd have to rummage through me old stuff, then. Gimme a sec, would you?"
Cass nods and leans against the wall, her eyes fixed on the floor.
Charlie pulls out a rusty chest, blows a whole layer of dust off the lid, and places it down with a heavy thud. He rummages through its contents and takes out a few items.
He pulls out a mechanically powered dynamo flashlight, its pullable string showing obvious signs of wear and tear.
Charlie comments, "Flashlights are bloody useful down there. This thing saved me neck numerous times."
"Is--is that all you 'ave?"
"Patience, patience. It's a lot of memories. Painful ones, mind you. Gimme--gimme a sec extra..."
Charlie holds up a heavy-looking revolver and inspects it from multiple angles.
"It packs quite a punch. I still have some ammo left. Always saved an extra bullet in case I--in case things got overwhelming and all the other ways were thoroughly exhausted."
Cassandra winces, "That gun won't even tickle him! C--can't you just gimme your gun?"
Charlie retorts, "Can you even shoot? And no, my weapon is my own. Company property and I'd be expected to pay a pretty penny if I lost company property. No can do, love. The revolver, however, is all yours...free of charge."
Cassandra mumbles, "This is mental."
He points the revolver at her and asks, "Do you know how to shoot?"
The Ghoul stammers, "Err--"
Charlie groans, "Oh, great. It's simple, just steady yourself, point, take aim, and shoot. The recoil on this thing is nasty, so you're going to want to make sure that you 'ave yourself a strong grip around the handle, yeah? And watch your footing, too."
Cassandra timidly accepts the revolver. Her fingers wrap around the gun's handle, and her thumb finds the hammer.
She gulps nervously, "It--it's loaded, yeah?"
"Yes." The Brujah tosses her a box of ammunition. The gun almost slips out of her hand when she tries to catch the ammo box.
Charlie shakes his head and sharply exhales, "Oi! Watch it! Don't go and shoot a part of yourself off, now."
Cassandra rightly asks, "What the 'ell am I expected to do with this? Your Winston's not some mortal who's lost it- he's an Elder who has already killed 3 people! At most, this gun would slow him down. Even in his Wight state, his wounds can still heal over time, right? You--you can't honestly expect me to be able to do this all by myself."
Charlie shrugs, "Listen, I'm just the guy guarding the door, yeah? Don't worry, Marble Cake's coming back with the real equipment."
"Oh, right. Fucking petrol. How am I supposed to get close enough to him to light him on fire without him tearing me to shreds first?! This is not my sort of thing!"
"Ah. So, you're a lover. Not a fighter, hmm?"
Cassandra shifts her weight from 1 foot to the other, "Y--Yeah. Something like that."
The Brujah simply tells her, "Then, I wish you all the best." He lifts his chin and walks right past her without saying anything further.
Cassandra is left standing there, clutching the revolver in 1 hand and the clunky dynamo flashlight in the other. A few bullets are spilled out from the ammo box near her feet.
She hears rapid footsteps coming down the stairs, and then the familiar voice of Marble Cake, "Oi! There you are! C'mon!"
Cassandra shoves the ammo and gun into her handbag. She stares at the flashlight and wonders where the "on" switch is. She sees Marble Cake's face appear around the corner, "C'mon!! C'mon!"
Cassandra hopelessly trudges towards the Brujah. She mumbles, "W--why petrol? Can't you give me something more practical?"
Marble Cake gives the Ghoul a toothy smile while holding up some signal flares, "You're more than free to sit around and make molotov cocktails, love. But we're on a bit of a schedule here, and time is a luxury we simply cannot afford. Besides, these are more than adequate for the job."
Charlie notes, "Fire destroys us. It horribly scares us, too. We call it the--"
Cassandra claps back, "I know what it's called! I'm not new to the nature of Kindred, OK? And--and how the 'ell does this thing even work?"
The person next to Charlie answers, "You have to pull on the pull chain. It's powered entirely by electricity generated by the muscle power of the user, so it does not need replacement of batteries, or recharging from an electrical source."
Charlie plainly nods his head up and down, a slight smirk dancing on his thin lips.
Cassandra groans loudly, "Errrrgh! This is bollocks!"
Marble Cake shrugs, "Too late to back out now, love. Only way out is...through that door. Winston's still running around in there, so be on your guard, yeah?"
Cassandra is provided with a schoolbag in which to put the flares and the petrol can.
She's expected to work wonders with a revolver, a loud-ass flashlight that requires manually pulling the string every single time, some lousy signal flares, and a can of petrol weighing her down in a schoolbag with faded childish pictures on it.
Lovely jubbly.
Cassandra mumbles under her breath, "This is fucking stupid. I--I'm not going to survive this..." She trails off and feels her heart rate steadily rising.
She's escorted by Marble Cake to the metal door, where the 2 individuals are still waiting. Marble Cake nods at them. Charlie puts his hand on the door's handle while the other Punk readies their weapon in case shit goes sideways.
The door swings open, and Cassandra is shoved in by Marble Cake. She lets out a gasp as the door groans shut on her face. The 2 Brujah guards fix her with a sympathetic look, then resume their previous duties.
Marble Cake looks at the trembling Ghoul and smiles feebly, "Good luck in there, love. And--and try not to die, yeah?"
Cassandra's face scrunches up in frustration. She looks around and tries to get her bearings. The lights in here are dim and look like they're on the verge of burning out.
She pulls out her revolver and readies her flashlight, too. She cranks on it once, the loud whirring noise of the machine's insides filling the otherwise eerily quiet area.
Gregory's Ghoul winces uncomfortably and gives the thing another tug. This time, it emanates a slightly better beam of light. It's bright enough for her to see the floor, and a few feet in front of her. But it slowly starts to fade out as the tool's mechanical whirring noises steadily grow quieter.
Cassandra grumbles, "Fuck!"
She's going to have to balance being able to see with not drawing any attention to herself. Who knows how heightened that Wight's senses are in his irreparably Frenzied state?
Cassandra blinks and steadies herself. She gathers her scattered composure and slowly walks down the dark and winding tunnel. Winston's banging and snarling echoes from the distant reaches of the sewer, causing the hairs on the back of her neck to stand on end.
She keeps the gun pointed forward and the flashlight pointing straight ahead as well. Cassandra takes a few more tentative steps and stops to listen for anything abnormal.
When she's certain that it's safe, she gives the flashlight a few good pulls so that it won't die out on her again.
Cassandra gulps and tries not to hyperventilate.
While walking and being sure to check her corners, she thinks to, "This is wrong. This is so fucking wrong and--and stupid and NOT what I had expected to--to be doing tonight! I don't know what Greg gets up to or how he--he got wrapped up in all this, but--but this is not what I signed up for!"
She stops and lets out a tiny gasp when a figure swooshes past her. Winston. She's only caught a glimpse of him, but he looked like an utter monster.
Cass licks her lips and points the gun at the wall ahead. Her arms are shaking and she's trying not to breathe too loudly. Sweat mercilessly drips down her forehead.
Cassandra can feel her heart racing like crazy.
The walls are rough and cold to the touch. The floor is a mess of broken bricks, shattered glass, and the occasional discarded wrapper, used condom, or empty plastic bottle.
The ceiling is a bit low, and she feels the occasional drops of water hitting her on the head. The aging pipes above her look ready to burst at a moment's notice. She tries not to think about how unpleasant that'd be.
Her foot accidentally kicks something, and it makes a rattling noise as it skids across the floor. She lets out a slight yelp and quickly points the revolver and flashlight at the item.
It's a squeaky rat toy that has some dried blood on it.
Cassandra shakes her head frantically and moves on. Winston lets out another guttural screech, the echo of which is being carried down the winding tunnel.
The sound seems to have come from the far left, and that's the way she'll be heading. Coincidentally (or not), she spots a nasty trail of blood, bits of viscera and gore, and the occasional dismembered body part.
She steps over a dead rat that's been crushed and savaged. Cassandra can't even tell if the fat rodent's head was torn off or was simply flattened to a pulp. The smell almost causes her to retch, but she makes a few gagging sounds instead.
Cassandra takes a few steps back, puts the flashlight and revolver back into the bag, and pulls out a signal flare. She was given 5 of these things to make the most out of.
She understands the basic logic of signal flare + doused vampire = Final Death.
It only becomes a matter of executing it while retaining a pulse (and all her body parts) by the time she's done.
She lights the flare up and hurls it as far away as she can. Its red light casts a wide, bright, and bloody glow in the vicinity, and the crackling sound draws a reaction in the form of a foul screech.
He appears in the corner of the flare's light and comes over to investigate it. Cassandra gasps and takes cover behind the wall. She presses her back against the cold concrete and tries not to hyperventilate. She even holds her breath, hoping that her rapidly thumping heart won't give her away.
A few tense seconds pass, then she hears some snarling. Winston bolts away from the flare and runs in the opposite direction, the sound of his erratic, clumsy footfalls growing quieter.
Cassandra lets out a silent, shaky breath. The flare continues to burn, its smoke trailing up into the air and filling the tunnel with a sickening, crimson hue. And the blood splattered all over the walls and floor is not helping the situation either.
She picks up the bag and starts walking deeper into the darkness, the flare's fading light acting as a sort of guide for her. She has the flashlight, too, but she has to be careful when yanking on that string. Its damned, bloody loud whirring is like a foghorn down 'ere!
Greg's Ghoul takes a sharp turn, and she finds herself standing in front of a mangled corpse. They're too much of an incomprehensible bloodied mess to determine anything about them.
Their entrails are hanging out and have been thoroughly chewed on. They've been thoroughly exsanguinated, too.
Cassandra's kinda squeamish when it comes to blood or guts. She holds back the urge to vomit and hurl all over the gaffe.
Her mouth tastes like rotten eggs, and her stomach is churning. She gets away from what's left of the decomposing corpse and keeps walking. A few savaged rodents help guide her way.
"Fucking 'ell!"
The rats have all been angrily twisted, bitten into at odd angles, and then left in a heap of bloody fur, bone, and exposed, glistening, slimy organs.
Since it's getting a tad darker, Cassandra decides to light another flare. Down to 3 flares now. She also takes the time to pull on the flashlight's string. The beam isn't as strong as she'd like, but it'll do.
The flare's eerie redness bathes the tunnel in a crimson glow. The light dances across the walls and floor as she carries the flare with her. The Ghoul has the gun pointed straight ahead.
Her hand won't stop trembling, but she's slowly starting to get a grip on things. She takes a deep breath and keeps going.
She grimaces when she steps on something gooey and sticky. She gags and elects not to look at whatever (or whoever) she stepped in. It squelches noisily beneath her shoe.
Cassandra gags again and hurries along, her eyes firmly fixed on the path ahead. An unnatural chill runs up the length of her spine. The Ghoul can feel something's terrifying presence here.
She's getting close.
Some bestial snarls and screeches cause Cassandra to jump out of her skin; she nearly loses her grip on the gun and the lit flare. She puts the flare down on the grimy, wet ground and readies herself.
Cassandra's entire body is shaking, her mind screaming at her to run away and get the 'ell out of here. She blinks and surveys her surroundings. Something big and nasty is surely lurking nearby.
Winston's spasming body is hunched over a pair of dying rats. His face is obscured by his matted black hair. He seems to be of average height, a bit on the thinner side of things.
His clothes are torn and bloodstained, revealing patches of skin that have been savagely clawed open and scarred over.
Any hints of a refined gentleman (and Elder) of the Brujah Clan are long gone. Winston's is tragically his Beast in every sense of the word. His eyes are even emptier than usual. They're like 2 black holes of violent madness.
His fangs are chipped and stained red, his claws broken and bloodied. The smell of blood and gore is heavy in the air.
The Wight slowly turns around and looks up at Cassandra. He rises from his squatting position and snarls at who may very well be his next meal. Cassandra points her gun at him and pulls the trigger. The shot goes horribly off-target and hits the wall behind him.
Winston lets out a high-pitched screech and charges at the Ghoul. She screams and points her gun at him. The next shot goes through the side of his torso. He wails like a banshee, but it doesn't stop him.
Cassandra thinks quickly. She holds up her dying flare and waves it at him in a rather erratic manner. Winston lets out an agonized howl and backs away.
Cassandra makes some hasty shooing noises while continuously waving the flare around, hoping it'll ward him off. Winston hisses at her before disappearing back into the darkness in a flash. The Ghoul waits for a few more seconds and then stops waving the flare around.
She's shaken, but she now knows that the harsh and bright lights of a signal flare scare him. But she's running out of time...and resources. Moreover, there's a chance that the Wight in question could still just try to overpower her.
Cass sets the flare down and gives the flashlight a few pulls. Every pull causes her to cringe slightly, but she manages to get a decent enough beam of light out of it. She pulls the revolver's hammer back and walks deeper into the tunnel. Winston's snarling gets closer and closer.
The petrol can in the schoolbag sloshes around with each step she takes. The Ghoul's heart is pounding so fast that her vision's starting to blur and she feels dizzy. Her mouth is dry and she's breathing far too rapidly.
Cass develops a sort of tunnel vision. Her breathing gets a lot more erratic as Winston's growling and desperate howling grows louder and louder.
The sound of footsteps rushing across the floor causes Cassandra to snap her head in the direction of the noise. It's Winston; he's running past her!
"Grr!" Cassandra growls and takes a breather. She decides to light another flare. Down to 2 flares now. The fire crackles loudly, its bright, eerie red light spreading all throughout the grimy tunnel.
She pulls out the petrol can from the schoolbag and shakes it around. She unscrews the cap, and the strong fumes make her cough. She holds back the cough lest Winston hears her. She then screws the cap back on the can.
She needs to douse him with this stuff and then light him up (somehow), or he'll just heal over time and get back up. The gun's simply not gonna cut it. At most, it'd serve to slow him down for but a few seconds. It could also further enrage him, though.
Cassandra doesn't want to know what a Brujah Elder's mad, Frenzying Beast would do to her. She already has a pretty good idea as it is.
For all intents and purposes, Winston's inner Beast has completely taken over. His Humanity is...gone. There's nothing left of the man. The Elder that once was is long gone.
Winston comes over and investigates the flare, his body swaying unnaturally. Cassandra takes this as her opportunity. While he's distracted, she gasps and quickly tosses the contents of the petrol can at him, the thick liquid splashing all over his clothes and onto the ground.
She doesn't throw it all on him, though. She opts to keep a bit in the can in case this hasty plan utterly fails. She needs to have something on hand just in case she needs to fight for her life.
Cassandra tries to light a new flare, but the blasted thing won't go off! The Wight roars and lunges at her, his hands outstretched and his claws ready to tear into her.
She yelps and leaps to the side, dropping the flare in the process. Winston stumbles but quickly gets back up. He's doused in petrol, heaving and snarling like a madman.
The Wight charges at her again, screaming bloody murder all the while. Cassandra pops off a few more shots till the pistol runs dry. She doesn't stop to reload, instead running away as fast as she possibly can.
The empty gun slips out of her shaking hands and lands on the grimy floor with a clatter. She only has 1 flare left. Out of anger, she tosses the dodgy flare at the rapidly approaching Winston. He growls and swipes at it, hissing as it narrowly misses his face.
Cassandra's legs take her as far away from the Wight as possible. She's running away from the dimming flare and back into the darkness. The adrenaline surges throughout her entire body, but she refuses to let the fear overtake her.
Cass gathers her composure and looks at the last signal flare in her dwindling inventory. She readies the petrol can and erratically throws the can's contents all over the Wight.
This time, thankfully, the flare lights up with a satisfying crackle. Cassandra tosses the flare at the bugger. Within mere seconds, the petrol-doused vampire goes up in flames. He screams wildly and runs around until he collapses onto the ground and fades away into dust and ashes.
There is a silent look of relief in his eyes as he goes out. He's finally free.
Cassandra sweats buckets. Not wishing to spend another moment in this damned place, she makes a hasty exit. She yanks on the tool's string and lets the beam light her way back to the door. She makes it there in record time.
She bangs on the door with her sweaty palm. Charlie and the other person guarding the door are genuinely surprised that she made it back. Before they unlock the door and allow her entry, they both ask if Winston has been destroyed.
Cassandra weakly nods, all the color from her face gone. She's pale as a sheet. The door is unlocked and she's told to head upstairs, where the others will indubitably be relieved to know that the nightmare is finally over.
Cassandra nods and mumbles under her breath. She dryly informs Charlie that his old revolver is somewhere in the tunnels. He tells her not to worry about it.
Back upstairs, Harry and Marble Cake are in a tense conversation.
Harry asks, "What if she doesn't make it? Are you ready to go by Gregory's Haven and inform him that his Ghoul's dead?"
The other Punk counters, "Why don't you do it?"
Before 'Arry can reply, Cassandra emerges out of the basement. Everyone else turns to look at her. All the talking comes to a halt.
With trembling lips, the Ghoul of Gregory declares, "It--it's over. I burned him...saw him go--go up in flames meself. He's...gone."
"WAY-HEY!" The entirety of the pub breaks out in a chorus of loud cheers and whoops.
Harry comes over and claps Cassandra on her back, "Oi, oi, oi! I knew that you 'ad it in you, love!"
Cassandra is a little taken aback, "Y--you're not sad about--"
Harry interjects, "We already mourned him, love. A long time ago. C'mon, you look like you could use a drink...or 5. C'mon, c'mon!" He ushers her to the bar, where he intends to get her something to drink.
Once she's seated on a stool, the other Punks surround her and thank her for putting an end to Winston's rampage.
She's shaken (and stirred). She weakly nods her head and musters up the tightest of smiles.
"So...I take it this isn't what you had expected to be doing tonight?" Marble Cake asks while presenting Cassandra with a glass of water.
The Ghoul gratefully takes it, "Y--yeah...not at all what I had in mind." She brings the glass of water up to her lips and takes a few sips. Some of it dribbles down her chin, but she doesn't care.
Marble Cake smiles warmly, "I'm sorry that we had to drag you into this, Cassandra."
Cassandra coughs a few times, "I--I'm just glad--no, not glad. I--I'm relieved that it's over, yeah." She smiles at Marble Cake, who returns the gesture.
Harry puts his hand around Cassandra's back and shakes her a few times, "So, what's your poison, eh?"
"I'm not much of a drinker. Not a huge fan, to be honest."
Marble Cake smirks and asks, "Not even a pint of bitter?"
Cassandra shakes her head, "No...no, not at all."
Harry insists, "OK. Fine. C'mon, luv. Anything you want. It's on the house!"
Cassandra gulps nervously, "Erm...white wine?"
Harry remarks, "Oh, a right posh drink, eh? White wine it is! Oi, pour the lady of the hour a glass of white wine. Fill it to the top!"
Someone in loose CODACORP coveralls does an elaborate bottle spin before pouring Cassandra some of the pub's best white wine.
All of the vampires nearby stare at her keenly. Cassandra feels a tad awkward with all those dead eyes boring into her.
She takes a timid sip of wine and lets out a nervous titter.
"WAY-HEY!" They break out into another cheer. Some clap the Ghoul on the back, congratulate her on a job well done, ruffle her hair, and make their way to back to their respective tables.
Cassandra takes another sip of the white wine.
Marble Cake regards the Toreador Ghoul with a fond smile on her face, "Never took you for a white wine sort."
Cassandra nervously chuckles, "Eh, what can I say...I...err...I like things that taste nice. I once tasted beer when I was a child. Absolutely fucking rancid it was, yeah."
Marble Cake laughs and sincerely thanks the other woman for what she's done for them. She then returns to the backroom. Harry sets the covered painting on the bar counter and takes a step back.
"Consider us even."
Cassandra holds up the glass and nods, "Yeah. S--sure." She takes another sip of the wine.
There's nothing more to be said, really. After she finishes her drink, she grabs the painting and makes her way out of the Horn 'N' Stag pub.
What. A. Night.
Gregory's Ghoul gets in the Lexus and takes a few deep breaths. In and out. In and out. A sense of relief washes over her. The nightmare is finally over. She sets the painting on the passenger seat and turns on the ignition.
On the way back, she bitterly remarks, "All over a--a fucking painting. Was it even worth it, Greg?"
She intends to have words with her Domitor. Traffic on the way back isn't as bad. The rain keeps on pouring and pouring and pouring. She puts the wipers on full speed. Thankfully, she got them replaced 5 months back.
It cost a bit of quid, but it's better than nothing. She gets back home without any major problems. She clutches the painting tightly and makes her way to the Toreador's Haven.
Gregory is idly sitting on 1 of the sofas. He's reading his copy of the Guardian. He looks up from his newspaper and goes to answer the door.
He lets her in with a neutral expression on his face. Cassandra's face is still a little pale. She has that rather intense look in her hazel eyes again.
She rudely shoves the painting into him, "'ere! It's done. Do you have any idea what I had to do to--"
"How is Winston? Did he say anything? Was the price--"
Cassandra explodes, "HE'S FUCKING ASHES! HE--HE FRENZIED AND TURNED INTO A WIGHT! YEAH, A PROPER WIGHT!"
Gregory doesn't flinch at the loudness of his Ghoul's voice. He just calmly sets the painting aside, "Oh."
"Is that all you 'ave to say?! Do you know what I had to do to get you that painting! I HAD TO DESTROY HIM! I HAD TO BURN HIM TO ASHES! I nearly lost me life down there tonight! And all you can say is 'oh'?!"
"What do you expect me to say, Cassandra? You did what you must. You, of all people, are no stranger to our world...this is how it works."
Cassandra's eyes well up, "I--I'm scared, Greg. Harry claimed that you bear some responsibility for Winston turning into a Wight--"
The Aesthete cuts her off, "That's preposterous. I simply asked the Brujah Elder if he was able to procure this artwork for me and on behalf of a client. That's all there was to it. Nothing more. Nothing less."
"What exactly happened?" Cassandra meekly prods.
Gregory sighs heavily, "I am under a lot of pressure. Like I said: there is a reason why I have kept you away from certain things for many years on end. The fact that I am now willing to share this with you at all is a sign of trust. It is also a sign of how dire things has become."
"Dire for who?"
Greg shrugs, "It's far more complicated than that, I'm afraid. Please, try and trust me. If or--or when it's all over, I'll explain everything. Until then, I'm going to need you to simply do as I ask."
Cassandra huffs, "Fine. But we're not done having this conversation, yeah? Am I going to be expected to destroy MORE Wights on your behalf?"
Gregory dryly answers, "I shouldn't hope so."
The Ghoul crosses her arms and leans against the wall, "What else am I supposed to do, hmm? Where--where should I head off to next?"
Gregory raises his chin, "Birmingham. I owe the Assamites a favor. I'd imagine that they'll want to call it in soon. Needless to say, I intend to have you do it for me. If you need extra money for petrol--"
Cassandra groans, "Why can't you just do it yourself?"
"I have my reasons. And even you, Cassandra, know that I don't appreciate being questioned in such a derisive manner."
Cass sighs harshly, "Fine! But--but this is just a bit wrong, yeah? I--I mean--"
She stammers and wildly gesticulates, "It's just wrong, innit? All of this. I--I mean, what you're doing is wrong, Greg! People shouldn't be getting hurt for art! 3 people died thanks to Winston!"
Gregory flatly counters, "You're going to stand there and lecture me about right and wrong? You, of all--"
Cassandra raises a finger and wags it at her Domitor, "No, no! Don't you dare bring that up! That's none of your business! We are talking about what YOU'VE indirectly done to these people!"
Gregory folds his arms and lowers his head. He takes a moment to consider the Ghoul's words.
He eventually says, "We'll talk more tomorrow evening. Pack your things- I don't know how long you'll be staying in Birmingham."
The Aesthete turns away from his Ghoul and makes his way back to the sitting room. Cassandra wants to say so much more. She wants to SCREAM at her Domitor, but the Bond of Blood kicks in.
She slumps her shoulders and makes her way back to her cottage. She needs to pack. Birmingham isn't that far off from Gloughchester; it's about 5 hours via car and half that time via train.
Cass would've preferred to take the train, but Gregory (for whatever reason) is insistent on her driving all the way over. After about an hour, Cassandra packs a suitcase and sets it aside.
Gregory removes the sheet from the painting and inspects it with a narrowed eye. He strokes his chin and takes on a very contemplative look.
He mumbles to himself, "The artist defaced it out of spite. Hm. Maybe that's what serves to increase its value. Hmph..." He trails off and puts the painting away in a safe, secure place.
Cassandra spends the rest of her night in bed. She dresses down to a loose sleeping vest and her knickers. She can't sleep just yet. The thought of what had occurred earlier in the night replays in her mind's eye over and over and over again.
She thinks about Harry and Marble Cake, too. Odd bunch, those 2. They seemed like decent enough people, though, just trying to eke out something resembling an existence in this dark, dark world.
Cassandra sighs. Her heart's beating fast, and she feels a wee bit dizzy. She grabs her phone and begins to dial a number.
Amy is sleeping next to her spouse when the phone rings. She grumbles and fumbles around in the dark for her mobile phone. She winces when she sees the name on the phone's screen.
"Hello?" Amy groggily asks while rubbing the sleep out of her eyes. She stands up and makes her way outside. The sounds of a sliding door opening and closing are heard.
Cassandra lets out a wistful sigh, "Hiya."
Amy hisses, "Are you mad? Calling me in the middle of the night?! What's gotten into you? What do you want now?" Her voice is low and slightly menacing. She has no patience for the Ghoul's antics.
Cassandra tears up a bit, "I--I just wanted to hear your voice. It's been a...tense night for me."
Amy's expression softens, "Oh. Work? Again?"
"Something like that, yeah. I can't go into specifics. Err...NDAs. But I just wanted to call you and hear your voice."
"I guess I'll have to find another way to cajole it out of you, then. You really have shit timing, you know that, right?"
"What can I say? I--I just want to be with you right now. I need to hear your voice. I want to...feel you. I want to hold you. I want to do a lot more than that, too."
Amy softly exhales, "Oh, Cassie. You really can get quite clingy, you know?"
She snickers, "But it's alright, I suppose. I'll have a few naughty dreams about you tonight, don't you worry."
Cassandra blushes, "That's...I suppose I'll 'ave a bit of naughty dreams, too, eh?"
Amy lets out a laugh, "You're adorable, Cassie. But please, try not to call me at odd hours. I...I don't want her getting any more suspicious than she already is."
Cassie's heart sinks, "I'm sorry. D--do you ever feel like what we're doing is...wrong?"
Amy's face scrunches up, "What?! What spurred this line of questioning on?"
"It's--it's nothing. You know what? Never mind that I asked. But...ah, shit...d--doesn't it feel wrong to you sometimes?"
Amy sighs, "The middle of the night is hardly the time to be having such a heavy conversation, don't you think? I'm sleepy, Cass. I have work tomorrow. And the crumbling walls don't exactly inspire feelings of confidence."
Cassandra winces a little, "I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm going to Birmingham tomorrow."
"Oh, lucky you. Work or pleasure, eh?"
"I--I don't know anymore."
"Well, good luck, love. And please, don't call- or text- me at unusual hours. Please. I--I don't want to arouse her--"
Amy stops and stares at the ring on her finger. She gulps and goes on, "I don't her f--finding out about...this. About us. Do you understand?"
Cassandra feels her eyes well up, "I--I do. Yeah."
Amy hears some wiggling on her bed. She stammers, "OK, OK. I have to go now. Mwah, goodnight. Sleep tight, don't let the bugs bite. Bye." She hastily hangs up before Cassandra can respond.
Cassandra sniffles and wipes a few tears away from her eyes. She presses her lips into a thin line and sets her phone aside She curls up in bed and tries to go to sleep.
The screeching of the Wight on flames replays in her head over and over again. It's going to be a long night. In time, however, she dozes off. Her snoring is loud and grating. She's drooling a bit, too. But at least she's getting some rest.
Act 3: Banu Haqim
"I have boiled it down to 3 things: Justice, Diablerie, and Shawarmas." -From the personal diaries of Gregory | Entry: On the Banu Haqim.
A new day dawns. The sun reigns supreme in the sky. Cassandra wakes up from her sleep. Gregory, meanwhile, is deep in the throes of his day-long slumber.
Cassandra stretches and yawns loudly. She still feels a bit tired and worn out, but she'll make do.
Up in his bedroom, Gregory is helplessly paralyzed while the 5-eyed Aapilu menacingly observes him up-close. It sniffs at him and makes that god-awful clicking sound again.
Gregory can only watch on. His entire Unliving body is frozen in fear. His lifeless blue eyes are locked onto the creature's many, many eyes. The one in the middle- the one belonging to his late daughter- catches his attention the most.
The mouthless being of the Vitae turns cocks its head at an unnatural angle. The Aapilu's slimy hand reaches out and caresses the Toreador's face.
Gregory's skin crawls. The Aapilu vanishes away after a few moments. Gregory's body goes slack and he falls into the cold pull of the day-sleep.
While her Domitor rests his immortal body, Cassandra eats some cereal and scrolls through various websites on her laptop. She looks up "Birmingham" in the search bar and finds out more about where she has to go this evening.
She checks the weather forecast and the traffic reports, too. The same old, same old. The default English setting of gray and gloomy. At least the traffic's not bound to be that bad.
After having a glass of tea, she gets dressed and heads out for a short walk across her Domitor's property. Oh, yes, most of the surrounding land now belongs to Mr. Gregory.
It's not just the fancy house (and the cottage).
She appreciatively takes in her surroundings. Tall trees, singing birds, buzzing bees, and fresh air. She deeply breathes it all in. The sun shines on her fair skin and makes her feel warm.
It's a good enough feeling. And not a day goes by when she isn't thankful for having a place that can (sort of) be called her own. She walks around the property for a little bit more until she decides to stroll by her Domitor's Haven.
She stares at the architecture from outside and lets out a small chuckle. When Gregory told her how much he bought this entire place for, she had to laugh out in sheer disbelief. It was simply too ridiculous not to!
So, how much was it all? The house, the cottage, and the Lexus, too?
£1.50
Mm-hmm. That's it. Not £150,000. Not £150,000,000. The Toreador who used to reside here offered everything to Greg for £1. The extra 50 pence was just because.
And because Greg also felt a tad guilty for getting it all for such an unbelievable (and quite frankly, unbeatable) price!
But why? Why did the prior owner of all of this property (and the surrounding land) decide to sell it to Gregory for such a small amount?
He was...bored, as certain members of the Clan of the Rose are oft wont to get. The former owner sought to fill the ever-expanding void in his long Unlife with a great many things.
He had claimed to have learnt of the path to Golconda from a random Salubri wandering the streets of Bristol. That person claimed that the path to Golconda was to be found high up in the Himalayas.
Asceticism was said to be the method that lit the path to Golconda. So, the dude who used to own this decided to part with his many worldly possessions- clothing, diamonds, watches, the whole shebang.
He even shaved his luscious blonde hair off.
Far be it from Gregory to yuck somebody else's yum. He paid for it all in cash...and coin, of course. The deal was finalized with a firm handshake and warm smile. And then blud left to find his "path to Golconda".
Or to have his ass frozen off, because fire isn't the only major threat to vampires. Uber-cold temperatures could very well lead to a messy Final Death.
And that's pretty much how Gregory and his Ghoul got 2 places, a car (secondhand, but pretty decent), and the surrounding land. For just £1.50 (pound shop prices!). The previous owner has not been heard of ever since he left to embark on his Golconda quest.
His Ghouls were given off to other Toreadors- Gregory had no intention of taking any more. Some contractors were hired to spruce the place up a wee bit- nothing too extravagant, just some general renovations and whatnot. And then, finally, the moving-in began in great earnest!
After reminiscing for a little while, Cassandra goes back to her cozy cottage. She was initially quite shocked by all of it, but the seriousness on her Domitor's face told her that it was all completely true. And so, it was.
For her part, she's absolutely chuffed that she doesn't 'ave to pay rent anymore. Searching for flats in a major metropolis like London was a right pain in the arse. And some landlords were proper creeps- asking for sex in lieu of outrageous amounts of dosh!
Utter perverts, that sick lot. If she didn't have Gregory agreeing to back her up, she'd be utterly powerless against some of the things that those creeps asked of her. And she had to make sure to take a good look around their places before handing over the money.
Mold, asbestos, all that shite.
Cassandra checks her bags and ensures that her suitcase is still packed. After that, she takes a stroll to the local pound shop- she wants to see if there are any deals on for today.
She grabs a few bottles of shower gel that were B1G1 (buy 1, get 1) free. Way-hey! 1 bottle for her and 1 bottle for Gregory, because even walking corpses need to smell good. She also gets 2 copies of the Guardian. They both like holding a physical copy in their hands.
They can both be a little old-fashioned in certain ways. But that's neither here nor there. Cassandra heads back home and waits for Gregory to rise.
And as surely as the sun sets, the Kindred in this corner of the world begin to wake up from their day-long slumbering. Gregory rises at the same time as usual. His day-sleep was disturbed. His eyes are bloodshot and his appearance is haggard. He has a severe expression on his face, too.
Regardless, he pulls himself out of bed with a strained groan and gets dressed. He goes downstairs and checks on the painting.
Cassandra can be seen waving through the glass doors that lead to his living room. Gregory sighs and dryly waves back at her. He gestures for her to come inside. The Ghoul obliges and enters the house.
"Hiya, Greg!" she eagerly greets, "Sleep well?"
Gregory plainly nods, "Hm. Are you ready for your Birmingham trip? All your bags are packed? Is--is there enough petrol in the Lexus?" His voice is low and gruff. He still sounds half-asleep, really.
Cassandra plops herself down on 1 of the sofas and nods, "Yeah, all set! Greg?"
"Hmm?"
"Do you...ever miss London? Do you miss anything about it? Anything at all?"
"No. You?"
"Cor blimey, no! But I do miss 1 thing, though."
"Oh?"
Cassandra nods and asks, "Remember the garden of that lady named err...Mary Marks, yeah? Very unusual woman, she was. Err...do you remember what she used to grow there? The flowers were rather pretty, weren't they?"
"No." Like always, his voice is flat and emotionless.
Cassandra's expression falls and she sighs, "O--oh, alright. So...erm...Banu Haqim in Birmingham, eh?"
The Toreador sits himself down from across his Ghoul. He intertwines his fingers and nods, "Yes. They are, however, not your run-of-the-mill Assamites, though. Many of them in that Domain are of the Blade of Haqim. I shan't waste your time with a history lesson on them, but I do hope you take the time to learn more about them."
Cassandra replies, "Ooh. Sounds exciting. I--I hope that I won't be thrown into a messy situation like...last night, yeah? I won't, right, Greg?"
Gregory mutters, "I'd hope not. Nevertheless, I owe these Assamites a favor. And rather than wait for them to call it in, I intend to have you do it for me. I have a feeling that they'll want your help in some or the other matter which is of great import to them. You must acquiesce, of course."
"Sure. Sure. Who should I expect to meet with?"
"The Mubarak brothers- Salim and Malik. Palestinian Assamites. And also, co-founders of the Blade. Genial sorts, the both of them. I trust that you'll be able to handle them without any...problems."
"Oh, yeah. Yeah. Sounds interesting. How come you've never, ever told me about any of this before, hmm? I'm learning a--a lot of things these days. Did you think I wasn't ready enough for it before?"
Gregory plainly tells her, "I had- and still do have- my reasons for withholding certain bits of information from you. But all of that is going to change soon enough, I assure you. This world of ours can get rather...messy."
Cassandra scoffs, "You're telling me! I know how messy it can get! So, err...how did these brothers and you meet?"
Gregory explains, "When it comes to matters of stealth and discretion, the Banu Haqim Clan are par excellence. Far be it from to stereotype, of course. Nevertheless, their expertise in such matters proved to be useful in my...dealings."
Cassandra's face scrunches up in confusion, "Err...what do you mean by that?"
Gregory sighs, "Simply put, they utilized the powers of their Obfuscate Discipline to...pardon the crudeness, nick certain priceless items and a few valuable artifacts that certain clients of mine have been demanding for quite a while now. I'm just the middleman in all of this, Cassandra, don't you worry. You yourself won't be held responsible for anything."
"Cor blimey...blagging stuff?!"
Gregory scratches the back of his head, "Hmph, yes. Consider it borrowing if it makes you feel any better--"
"And the Banu Haqim just went along with it?"
"Favors are the currency of our kind. But the Assamites except other forms of payment- Blood being the primary one. They did what they did, and in return, I spilled some of my Vitae into a container. What they do with it is their prerogative; those sorts of things never truly interested me, anyway."
Cassandra's eyebrows shoot up, "Wow. I--I won't be expected to make a blood donation, would I?"
"No. You better get moving- you have a long journey ahead of you. Here's the address where you're going to meet up with the Assamites. As always, be on your best behavior. Stay vigilant. You'll be representing me, so I want you to put your best foot forward. Got it?"
Cassandra gulps and nods, "I will. I--I will, yeah. And I'm fully authorized to speak, act, and--and negotiate on your behalf, right?"
Gregory nods, "Yes. That is correct. Do you still remember all of your learning, Cassandra?"
"Of course I do!"
"Good. Never forget it. In the coming nights, you're going to need to tap into your vast reserves of insight and knowledge. Now, off you go. There's a reason I'm not sending you via train. I know that it's a lot faster, but the trip is far safer when taken by car."
The Ghoul shrugs, "If you say so. Do I want to ask how you know this?"
Gregory stammers, "Just...trust me on this, OK? Do you require additional spending money? You can take my debit card if you'd like- you know the PIN--"
Cassandra holds her hand out and politely declines, "Oh, no. I'm fine. T--thanks. I--I have me own cash for this trip, don't you worry."
Gregory reminds her, "I've already booked you hotel room- I do hope that it is to your satisfaction. If the stay goes on for longer than expected, then worry not, for I shall cover the costs."
"A--are you sure? I mean, I 'ave dosh, y'know? I'll take care of it, Greg."
"I insist. You're representing me, acting and speaking on my behalf. It's the least which I can do as your Domitor, Cassandra."
Cassie smiles, "Well, thanks. I promise not to take advantage, alright?"
"Hmm. And for what it's worth, I am sorry about what you had to face last night. The suddenness of it all must've come as a great shock to you."
Cassandra nods and her expression becomes glum, "Yeah. It was proper scary, I tell you that. I--I thought that I was done for..." She trails off and her lips begin to quiver.
She sniffles and continues, "But I didn't give up. I, somehow, did what had to be done. But I feel a bit guilty, yeah? Is what I did murder, Greg?"
Greg shakes his head, "Winston was a Wight- too far gone to be saved. And to have him go on any longer would've been nothing short of cruel. You were merely defending yourself."
Cassandra points at her Domitor, "You tell that posh client of yours that people died for their painting!"
The Aesthete sighs heavily, "I'll...figure out a way to bring it up in our conversation. Now, is there anything else on your mind? The sooner you leave, the faster you'll get to Birmingham. As always, do not call or text me unless it is absolutely urgent."
Cassandra musters up a smile, "Don't 'ave to tell me twice. And we really should get our SIMs changed sometime soon, yeah?"
"Hm. Yes. Goodbye, Cassandra. Drive safely."
She gets the hint loud and clear. She takes a moment to go over a few more of the finer things with Gregory before heading out the door. She loads her luggage into the back seat of the Lexus and then sits down behind the steering wheel.
A light rain pours down upon her car as she makes her way to the main road.
Cassandra is dressed in a purple silk shirt with a few of the top buttons undone. A pair of dark capri pants hugs her legs. Her flats are plain and black and she's wearing some simple stud earrings. The outfit is very classy, and the colors go well enough with her fair skin.
The Toreador Ghoul also has a touch of makeup on. Nothing too extravagant- just a dash of blush, mascara, and pound shop lip gloss.
Birmingham, here she comes!
During the long drive, she inserts a CD of her favorite pop singer into the car's stereo system. She squeals in delight when singing starts.
A man announces, "Soho Starlet! Nicola Green!"
Cassandra lets out another delightful squeal.
Soho Starlet's voice fills the car. Cass bops her head to the smooth, textured beats. She happily sings along to her favorite bits of the song. Halfway through the drive, she shuts off the music and pulls her Blackberry phone out of the cup holder.
She dials Amy's number and waits for an answer.
"Hello, sweetie," Amy's voice comes on the other end.
Cassandra replies, "Hiya! Back from work?"
"In the bus right now. You in Birmingham yet?"
"Nah. Still on the road. I think I'll skip the M40 and take the M2 motorway to get there faster. I got some spare change for the toll booths."
"Well, good for you, then."
"So, how are...things?"
Amy wiggles on the seat of the bus and watches the rain pelting down outside the window, "Oh, y'know...the usual song-and-dance routine of an overworked and woefully underpaid school admin. Add to that the crumbling walls and worried pupils. Oh, it's all just a smashing, wonderful time."
Cassandra's expression softens, "I'm sorry to hear that. I--I wish I could be there to help you out with all of it..."
"I'll be needing some stress relief sometime soon..."
"Ooh, now you're speaking me language!"
Amy smirks and lowers her voice to a seductive purr, "Oh, I've been feeling...very stressed out lately. And I think that you can help me out with it."
Cassandra feels a twitch of excitement in her nether regions. She licks her lips and stammers, "Oh--oh, really?"
"Hmm. Any idea when you're getting back?"
"Oh, err...it may take a while, yeah. Well, why can't you come over to Birmingham and--and, you know..."
Amy clicks her tongue and shakes her head, "No. Absolutely not. And risk her finding out? No, Cass. I'm sorry, but I can't do that."
Cassandra sighs in disappointment, "I know, I know. But can you blame me for wanting to see you naked again, yeah? Just thinking about it is--is making me all hot and bothered! I--I need a release!"
Amy shushes her, "Quiet! I--I need it, too. Text me when you get to the city of a 1001 different trades, OK?"
Cassandra chuckles, "Will do! I...I'm going to miss you."
Amy takes a moment to respond, "I'm going to miss you, too. Come back to Gloughchester soon, alright? I don't want to wait for too long..."
"I--I'll try me best, Amy."
"Hmm. Bye."
"Yeah."
The call ends there. Cassandra takes a few deep breaths. She tightens her grip around the steering wheel. She blinks the tears away from her eyes and swallows hard. She wipes her face clean and then continues with her journey.
Traffic is quite dense in certain areas. And the rain gets worse. And then it gets better for a short while. And then worse again. Good thing she got them window wipers changed!
Eventually, Cassandra finally gets to the city of Birmingham.
The Domain of Birmingham. Since she isn't a Kindred, she's not required to present herself to the Prince of this fine city. She's just here to carry out the will of her Domitor, keep her head low, and then go back home to familiar Gloughchester.
After such a long drive, she's feeling rather peckish. There's a KFC that's opened at this time. She pulls her car into the parking lot. She pats herself down and checks her makeup before heading in.
As far as KFCs go, it's fairly average- sleek, minimalistic, and not too big or too small. A few people are inside already- office types, judging by their tight, formal attire.
Many baggy-eyed lads are chomping down on their burgers. And there are some young couples from the nearby unis who are enjoying their meal in peace and quiet.
Cassandra strokes her chin and stares at the overhead menu. A few of the food items look mighty good to her! Eventually, she opts to go for a zinger burger with fries, and a cold can of Pepsi.
Simple and to the point. For tomorrow's lunch, she'll get something different. Right now, she just wants to get done with her (late) dinner and meet up with the Assamites.
Cassandra's burger comes with some complimentary sauce that's orange in color. It has a creamy texture, but the taste is quite...spicy.
Cassandra, however, can very much handle spicy food. She shrugs and takes a big ol' bite out of her burger. The sauce in question goes rather well with the burger and fries!
She notices that some of the employees in this establishment are dragging their feet and yawning like mad. A few of them look half-asleep, as well. A look of sympathy washes over the Ghoul. She has an inkling of what it's like to have to work long shifts for minimum wage.
Not fun at all, yeah.
While eating her meal, the Ghoul spots the logo of Elbit Systems on someone's bulky jacket. She grimaces and shakes her head, very much aware of what that foul Israeli company is, what it does, and what it stands for.
She quickly wolfs down the remainder of her scran, wipes her mouth with a few tissue papers, and scurries away from the fast-food restaurant. Before meeting up with these Assamites, she swings by the hotel to check in.
It's quite a grand place located somewhere in the city's center. With a smile on her face, she greets the receptionist and shows him her ID. Once he's done with his work, he gives Cassandra her room key.
She's got a medium-sized 5th floor suite with a decent enough view of the Domain's skyline. And a lovely bed, too! After freshening up, Cassandra grabs her handbag and heads out into the dark and rainy night.
Gregory's Ghoul drives her Lexus to a nearby underground car park. She locks up and walks to the building where she's supposed to be meeting the Assamites.
It looks like a community center of some kind. She spots a few kids laughing and running about- at this time of the night, how curious! She also spots a woman in her 40s wearing a headscarf. She politely waves and the woman smiles back at her.
Cassandra enters the main building and looks around for a bit. Brown carpeting, plain walls, and an old ceiling fan spinning round and round. The concrete buildings around her look the same, more or less.
She spots a large fella with a beard standing guard at the door next to the main reception area. The kids that she saw earlier come rushing inside, sweating and giggling. They squeeze past the man at the door and continue whatever it is that they're doing.
The man nods over to Cass and asks her, "Can I help you with something, miss?"
"I'm...err...looking for the Mubarak brothers. You wouldn't happen to know where they are, yeah?"
"1 moment, please." The man turns on his heel and goes deeper into the building.
Cassandra leans against the wall and patiently waits. She pulls out her Blackberry and shoots a text to Amy: "Reached. Sry 4 not texting sooner. Lovely looking city. Want me 2 get anyting for you?? Trinkets, knick-knacks, snacks?"
No response is received. A few minutes later, the man returns and says, "This way, please."
Cassandra shoves the phone into her handbag and follows after him. The man opens a door at the end of the hallway.
It's dimly lit by some orange-tinted light bulbs. There's a desk with a simple computer on it. There's a map of the city on the wall behind it. There are a lot of red pins in the map- probably important spots for the Assamites to keep an eye on.
A dark-skinned man who looks to be in his late-30s sits at the desk. He has a short beard, brown eyes, a diamond-shaped face, and a scarred nose. He has a very prominent widow's peak. The rest of his hair is gelled back. He's wearing a blue jacket with a slightly torn collar and some matching pants.
He politely greets her, "As-salamu alaykum (AR: Peace be upon you)."
Growing up, Cassandra had a few Arabic-speaking friends at the comprehensive school where she studied. So, she understands what he just said.
She stammers a little when returning the greeting, "Err...Wa alaykumu s-salam (AR: And upon you be peace). Did--did I get it right?"
"It is acceptable. What can I do for you on this fine night?" He speaks with a slight accent.
"Err...yeah, hiya. I'm looking for Malik or Salim Mubarak. Gregory--"
The Assamite introduces himself, "I am Salim Mubarak. How do you know Gregory?"
Cassandra sits up straight, "I'm his Ghoul, yeah. Cassandra's me name. I'm here on his behalf because he owes you lot some kind of favor."
Salim's expression doesn't change at all, "That is true. Is there a reason why he's not here with you? Were you sent forward to herald his arrival?"
"Nah. He's not coming. I've been fully authorized to act, speak, and negotiate on his behalf, yeah?"
Salim steeples his fingers together and exhales softly, "Oh. I see. He sent his Ghoul to do his work for him..."
He wishes to say more but elects not to. Instead, he asks her, "So, you are here on his behalf, then? Hmm?"
"Yeah. I'm ready to help you out with whatever it is that you need helping with."
Salim leans back in his swiveling office chair and explains, "This complicates matters. Oddly enough, it might also work in our benefit. I have been receiving word from certain...friends in Gloughchester. They speak of a Ghoul who brought Final Death upon an Elder Wight of the Learned Clan."
He leans forward and eyes her carefully, "You wouldn't happen to know anything about this, would you?"
Cassandra rubs the base of her neck, "I did what I had to do. Winston was his name. He'd already killed 3 innocent people in his state! I don't regret doing what I did...but I don't exactly feel good about it, either."
"Interesting. So, you are a capable Ghoul, then?"
"I suppose so."
Salim nods over to the big man and waves him off. The man in question takes the hint and goes away. The door behind them clicks shut.
Salim gets up from his chair and walks over to the map of the city. He puts his hand behind his back and stares at it intently.
He tells Cassandra, "If you are truly acting on behalf of your Domitor, then I shall explain the task at hand. Unlike what you did to that Rebel, this one will require...subtlety. Maybe you are the right person for this job. Gregory would've been far too much of a liability in this situation."
He paces a tight circle and explains, "There is an infiltrator among us. We know nothing of their identity beyond the fact that they have somehow managed to penetrate our defenses and blend in with us. Their motives are far from mysterious to us."
Cassandra folds 1 leg over the other, "Oh. Go on. I'm all ears."
"Before we proceed, I strongly feel that context must be provided. What do you know of the Blade of Haqim?"
Cass shakes her head and shrugs, "Nothing."
Salim adjusts a pin on the map and begins, "We are a faction of the Banu Haqim Clan, founded shortly after the 1948 Nakba. Do you know what the Nakba is, Cassandra?"
She correctly answers, "The ethnic cleansing of the Palestinian people...and the founding of Israel. Y'know, the usual crimes and atrocities against humanity."
Salim is visibly impressed with her knowledge and nods in approval, "That is correct. Perhaps you will prove to be the right one for this sensitive task. Anyways, I myself- along with my brother, Dr. George Fateh, Fatima Ibn Rashid, and many others- am a founder of the Blade of Haqim."
"What brought you to Birmingham? If--if you don't mind me asking. I hope that it's not too insensitive of a question, yeah?"
Salim softly smiles, "Far from it. The Zionists were- and still are- ruthless savages. We had no other choice but to flee, to run. Our home has been desecrated for decades now. Many of us were slaughtered by the emerging Jewish State. A great number of us managed to escape."
He tells her, "Me and my brother came to the UK after wandering around for so long. Fatima and Dr. George went to Magnolia City, USA. Dr. George stayed in America while Fatima soon went off to France- she's an Elder, so the Beckoning continuously takes its toll on her. Last I heard, she's in Turkey. But it's hard to send and receive letters. They take weeks to arrive, if they do arrive at all."
Cassandra's interest is piqued. She gestures for him to continue.
The Assamite resumes, some pain and heaviness lacing his voice, "When we escaped our homeland, we were not in much of a position to fight back. Even now, we fight an uphill battle against those who mean ill. The Assamites- as you may or may not know- are very dedicated to the pursuit of justice."
"Yeah, I know. I got a fair idea of your Clan's Banes and Compulsions. Learned all about them, I did."
Salim chuckles softly, "How very intriguing. A learned Ghoul. Fascinating, truly. Let us resume. After we came here, the decades flew by. We helplessly watched as the Zionists...annihilated everything that we held dear. And they continue to do so to this night."
Cassandra nods, "Yeah. All that fighting in Gaza. Horrid business. It's in the news, too."
(This is long before the genocide in Gaza. What she's referring to is Israel's barbaric policy of routinely "mowing the lawn". Every time that they feel like it, the Israelis just kill and maim and destroy and loot and pillage and rape. Their murderous assaults always receive some token condemnation from the UN or from other countries and Orgs, but never enough to actually stop the massacres.)
Salim lowers his head, a tear of blood rolling down his cheek, "And they receive the full backing of the usual suspects. The UK, USA, France, Spain, Germany, India, even Australia. Tch. A curse upon all of them and their households."
He composes himself and continues, "Nevertheless, we do what we can to fight against the Zionists. It is not an easy battle, Cassandra. A certain solidarity organization that we are associated with has been suffering heavy losses lately. And we have reason to believe that this infiltrator bears the responsibility for it."
"I see. What kind of an organization is it?"
Salim shrugs, "It mostly consists of students, activists, lawyers, and those who are interested in these important issues. Some of them are Kindred, some are Ghouls like yourself. But the vast majority are mortals. We don't really have a name for the organization."
"Do you meet up regularly or is it all secret-like?"
"Yes, we do meet. In fact, we're holding 1 of those meetings right now. Not here, mind you. I don't know if you've noticed, but there has been an increased police presence around these parts in the last few weeks. As such, we need to be very cautious at all times."
Cassandra concurs, "Yeah. Can't be too certain these days, eh? It's not just the bent coppers that you have to watch out for."
Salim chuckles, "Indeed. This infiltrator has caused damage to our organization. Many of our Ghouls have been turning up dead- usually shot in the back of the head in their own flats or violently beaten to death in back alleys. The police are quick to cover up the crimes."
"Cor blimey! And the mortal members?"
"They...are fine. For now. But we do not know for how long that'll be. Somebody with intimate knowledge of the inner workings of Kindred Society is targeting us. They want to move our Ghouls out of the way so they can get to us."
Cassandra strokes her chin, "I see. Yeah, makes sense. How many have you lost so far?"
Salim grimly answers, "At least 12. The last one was found in her house with her throat slit."
Cassandra shudders and looks away, her face scrunching up in horror, "Gruesome. Sorry to hear that."
Salim sniffs, "Hmm. At least we were able to prevent an autopsy from being performed. The results would've indicated that she was far older than she actually was. It was a good thing that our contacts were quick to act. It pays to know people in the morgues."
He faintly chuckles at that before his expression becomes serious once more, "Anyhow, you will be attending future meetings and observing everybody there. I strongly suspect that somebody from amongst the mortals is our infiltrator."
"OK, OK. So, what do I do, then? Do I 'ave to sign up for some membership? Is there a fee--"
The Assamite waves his hand, "Nothing of the sort, don't worry. I'll have somebody vouch for you, Cassandra. Worry not. There's a meeting scheduled for tomorrow morning. 11:00 AM sharp. Integrate yourself with them. Make connections. Get to know them. Learn what you can about their backgrounds."
Cassandra presses her lips into a thin line and nods slowly.
Salim instructs her, "Be discreet with your observations. The infiltrator must not become aware of your intentions. Otherwise, it could spell catastrophes for all of us."
"How am I supposed to identify the infiltrator if I don't even know what they look like?"
Salim looks ahead, "We will leave that to your discretion. Your Domitor owes us a big favor. But I am grateful that he sent you in his stead. No offense, but Gregory can be rather...difficult to understand at times. And he is far too...uptight. What is it that you Brits say?"
He snaps his fingers a few times and says, "Ah, yes. A stiff upper lip. Haha! Even till now, I find your...take on the English language to be most interesting. And a little amusing. So many expressions that me and Malik have yet to pick up on."
Cassandra smiles a little, "Yeah, it's quite something, alright. How--how have you found it here in the UK after all these decades? Do you...feel welcome and--and accepted by us Brits?"
The Assamite's gaze softens as he answers, "By the common people, yes. By your dreadful governments, no. And that goes for both Tories and Labor. Don't even get me started on the Greens and Lib-Dems. Heh."
Cassandra sincerely tells him, "I'm sorry about what I'm sure you've had to experience throughout all those years. The err...the racist abuse, the casual violence, and the discrimination. I really am."
Salim equably says, "You yourself are not at fault for such things. Governments the world over instigate people against each other while those of even greater power and wealth go about looting their own societies until there is nothing left. It is a foul trick as old as time itself. Divide et impera. Divide and rule."
"Yeah, absolutely. It's fucking mental, too! Err...do you mind if I ask an uncomfortable question?"
Salim sits down and gives her his full attention, "By all means."
Cassandra leans forward and asks him, "Have you ever been tempted by the call of Diablerie? I--I know what the Banu Haqim are about and all, but--"
Salim's smile is rather tight, "That is quite a personal question, Cassandra. It is something that the local Camarilla look down upon, yes. But we...we...do what we must to control ourselves in that regard."
"Uh...OK. Another question, if I may."
Salim motions for her to continue.
Cassandra continues, "What are you gonna do with the infiltrator once they've been caught? I--I mean, once I'm sure about who it is and all."
Without skipping a beat, the Assassin tells the Ghoul, "We will Judge them."
Cassandra's eyebrows go up and she quickly nods, "Gotcha. That's the end of my questions, then. Tomorrow morning, 11 AM sharp. Consider me present."
Before she leaves, the 2 of them go over a few things. Salim runs a few convincing cover stories by Cassandra- they eventually settle an office worker at some big-name company who has always been interested in the critical issues of the epoch- and Palestine is most certainly 1 of them!
He tells her that he'll have everything ready for tomorrow. His Ghouls will help get her setup, but they themselves are in hiding and (understandably) quite afraid due to all of the recent killings. So, their support will be fairly limited.
And Salim can only aid her at nights, but that also carries with it certain risks. In fact, the Assamites have to be very cautious around here for numerous reasons. The increased police presence isn't helping things, either.
While Cassandra makes her way to the door, Salim calls out to her, "Oh. And 1 more thing, Cassandra."
She turns around and politely waits.
Salim lifts his chin slightly and reminds her, "Always thank the bus driver. Us Banu Haqim are very particular about that here in Birmingham. Goodbye, Cassandra. And may peace and justice go with you."
"You too. Cheers! And thanks for...err...trusting me with all of this, yeah? I won't let you down. I promise! I--I genuinely care about these issues, y'know? It's not just a random assignment for me."
The Assamite presses his lips into a thin smile and nods, "It is relieving to hear that. I hope that you will succeed in your task, Cassandra. I wouldn't want to be put in the position of having to inform your Domitor that something has happened to you..."
Cassandra swallows nervously and mutters, "Yeah. I--I'll manage, don't worry."
The Ghoul opens the door and leaves the room, shutting it behind her.
Salim clasps his cold hands together and lets out a sigh, "Only time can reliably tell if she is the right person for this job...or if she is just somebody who will get herself killed..."
He stops himself, "No! I--I mustn't think in such ways. She is the best hope that we have of discovering the infiltrator...and delivering swift Judgment upon them. Hm. Yes."
After that, Cassandra goes back to the Lexus and returns to her hotel suite. She plops herself on the bed, her cheeks puffing out when she exhales loudly. She pulls out her Blackberry and sees that Amy still hasn't responded to her earlier text.
She texts her again: "Hiya! Doing OK? gonna b in birmigham 4 a while. cant stop thinking about u."
Amy's response is kinda harsh: "Go 2 sleep, FFS. Plz, not now. Just...put your bloody phone aside and stop being so clingy all the time, alright? I have work in the morning."
Cassandra is taken aback. She lets out a tiny gasp and puts a hand over her mouth. Her eyes begin to tear up. She sets her Blackberry on the nearby nightstand and stares at it with a broken expression.
Tiredness soon takes hold of the Ghoul's body. She falls asleep a few minutes later, her phone left on the nightstand. She cries into the pillow before slumber takes her.
The next morning, Cassandra wakes up feeling a tad refreshed. She takes a soak in the bathtub before going over the details of last night's meet up with Salim. The Assamite is expecting her to attend a meeting in the morning.
She checks her Blackberry phone. No text from Amy. The time is 8:10 AM. She's got a while before she has to head out. She turns on the TV and flips through some channels. She lingers on BBC for a good few minutes before switching to ITV.
From there, Cass flips to Channel 4 and idly watches whatever's playing at the moment. She's not really paying attention. She keeps checking her phone, hoping for a reply from Amy. Her hope dwindles each time that she picks up the phone, only to find no new notifications whatsoever.
None whatsoever.
She soon switches off the telly and decides to head down for the most important meal of the day; apparently, the hotel has a buffet setup.
The Toreador Ghoul grabs some toast and applies some dark-colored jam on top of it. She eats it and gets ready for the long, long day ahead. She's dressed fairly plainly- green blouse, jeans, and a few bangles on each wrist. Her brown hair is tied into a ponytail.
She heads outside and makes her way for the nearby bus stop. She's not really in the mood for driving around in the Lexus. Besides, she wants to see a bit of this city.
(Even though sightseeing is not why she's here.)
She takes a bus and rides it for about 20 to 25 minutes. On the way out, she remembers to thank the bus driver, "Thanks!"
The old man warmly smiles at her, "Cheers! Have a good one, miss." He tips his cap at her and drives off.
Cassandra walks around the city and takes it all in- the sights, the sounds, the atmosphere, the buildings, all of it. It's honestly not THAT different from Gloughchester. But it's still different enough to be noticeable.
Time flies by...
Cassandra soon meets up with a VERY frightened-looking Assamite Ghoul who proceeds to quickly give her the information that she needs. This young woman seems very eager to get out of here, very quickly. She's dressed in a thick hoodie, bulky glasses, and jeans. She keeps looking over her shoulder.
So, Cassandra will present herself as an office worker who has only recently started to take an interest in the burning issues of our dark times. She's free to use her real name or give out a fake one to the other group members.
Not all of the group's members meet up at once- reasons. So, Cass is slotted into an upcoming meeting with a few other people. All of them are warm-bodied mortals. Salim himself strongly suspects that the infiltrator is amongst this group of people.
After this is all explained to Cassandra, the Assamite Ghoul hastily gives her directions to where she's supposed to go and dashes off across the street, bumping into a few people and briskly walking off. Cassandra gathers her composure and goes on her way.
The place that this little meeting is supposed to take place at is in the breakroom of some music hall. Cassandra is at the front of this wide and imposing building by 10:30 AM.
It never hurts to be early in these types of situations. The Toreador Ghoul makes her entry and takes in her surroundings. The mezzanine area overlooks the grand, marble staircase and the spacious lobby. The rays of the sun beam through the tall glass windows, casting their light upon the floor and the staircase.
Cassandra pulls out her Blackberry and snaps a few pics of the interior before going down the stairs to the right side of the lobby. She finds the breakroom and knocks on the door before poking her head in.
"Hiya! I hope I'm not...err...too early?" Cassandra laughs nervously. She steps inside and closes the door behind her.
5 people are already seated in a circle of folding chairs. This is going to be interesting.
Cassandra introduces herself using her real name and grabs a nearby seat, "Cassandra. Pleased to make your acquaintance. I'm here because...y'know...I care about all the important issues, yeah."
A lanky man with olive skin, frizzy hair, and thick lips introduces himself, "Name's Reginald. I'm doing my PHD in Philosophy at the University of Birmingham." He's wearing a simple black t-shirt with an image of a person in a keffiyeh readying their slingshot.
The woman next to him is well into her 50s. Her hijab is colorful. She looks quite stern but also has a soft edge to her demeanor. She musters up a small smile, "I am Shirin. It is a pleasure to make your acquaintance."
The petite lady with a few piercings says her name is Ruby. Her dull gray eyes stare daggers into Cassandra's soul. She crosses her arms and nods, "Hey. Peace, yeah?"
"Adam," a ginger-haired man who looks to be in his indeterminate 20s flatly says. He's got a short beard, hazel eyes, and freckles. His attire is casual- a solid maroon t-shirt and dark blue jeans. He's doing his 1st year BA at a private university here in Birmingham.
The last man in the room introduces himself as Colin. He's a pensioner dressed in warm, bulky clothing. His fair skin is wrinkled, and his hair has gone completely white. His voice is gruff and somewhat gravelly. He used to be a binman before taking retirement due to a serious back injury.
He now volunteers at the music hall when his aging and frail body permits him to do so. He even used to play the cello but can no longer do so after a terrible accident at work.
1 of them could be the infiltrator getting all those Ghouls killed. Or the infiltrator in question could be in another different grouping altogether. Only time will tell...and there isn't much of that luxuriously lying around.
Cassandra tells them, "Right then! So, I--I'm here. We're all here. How does this usually work? I'm new to all of this. But I'm very interested in learning more!"
Ruby sits up straighter, "We're planning a protest sometime this week, right? Leave the placard designs to me, yeah? We're still going over some of the logistics and stuff."
Reginald puts in, "But the police still won't issue a permit, citing security reasons and the supposedly divisive nature of our protest. It's all bullshit, if you ask me."
Colin concurs with a simple nod of the head. Shirin silently watches them all from her seat.
Ruby looks at Cassandra and asks, "You look like you've got something to say, Cass. Don't worry, we're all friends here, yeah?" She flashes a small smile.
Cassandra nervously wrings her hands together and asks Adam, "You want to add anything? You haven't said much."
Adam softly chuckles, "Well, the protest will go on regardless. I'm organizing it, going around getting signatures, posting on social media, and so forth. As far as the police are concerned, we'll find a way around them. We always do."
Shirin chimes in, "I myself have been working with other groups and organizations here in Birmingham. I'm hoping to bring them together- if such a thing proves to be possible- for this upcoming protest. Peaceful protest, of course. Let us not forget that."
Ruby nods, "Yeah, yeah. Absolutely. Our main focus right now is seeing this protest happen. We do what we have to, push where we must, and never forget why we're doing this. It's not for us, it's not so we can feel all warm and fuzzy about ourselves. It's to bring attention to the plight of the Palestinian people- they're the focus, always have been, and always will be."
Colin nods and adds, "Yes. Precisely. Couldn't 'ave said it better meself. I've been attending and taking part in these kinds of protests for...decades on end. Maybe now's the time when we'll finally move the needle in a more favorable direction."
Cassandra keenly listens to their words. She takes this all in and nods.
Adam speaks up, "There's some hostility on social media- the usual suspects. Nothing new in that regard. But we're slowly gaining traction. If we can get a lot of people to show up, I think we'll be good."
Reginald prods, "How much is a lot, Adam?"
Adam answers, "1000? 10,000? They won't be able to turn their heads away from that."
Reginald looks at Cassandra and tells her, "Did you know that there's an Elbit Systems facility near this city's outskirts?"
Cass nods, "Yeah. I saw someone's Elbit jacket last night. What's that all about, then? Are we planning some kind of protest outside of that place? It makes sense to do that, right?"
Ruby shakes her head, "Too risky. Not that I disagree with the principle of the matter. But they could charge us with criminal trespassing and have us locked away for years. We take to the streets of this city. We make a big noise. We'll get heard, 1 way or another."
Cassandra carefully asks, "Are we the only ones meeting about this?"
Shirin responds, "There are others. We had a WhatsApp group, but it was recently shutdown without explanation as to why. We were even banned from Facebook and given no reasons for the ban. Colin was the group's admin."
Colin sighs heavily, "It just came out of nowhere. 1 day, it was all fine. The next time I log onto me computer, it's all gone. And the others in the group, too. Poof! Disappeared! Just like that!"
Adam chuckles and suggests, "Maybe we should try our luck and try making another group? Couldn't hurt to do that, could it?"
Reginald clicks his tongue, "Nah, too risky, mate. They've made it clear that they don't want us. Fuck 'em. We'll just organize the old-fashioned way. They didn't have fancy social media back in the 1960s and they still managed to shake up a storm. I'm sure that we can do the same."
He sounds confident. Almost too confident.
Cassandra has to measure her words carefully. 1 wrong or out-of-place word could cause the infiltrator to get spooked and dip. She has to be very subtle in her observations and approach. But she also wants to contribute something useful to the group.
She suggests, "I think we should keep pushing online. I wouldn't dismiss social media entirely, Reginald. It's a big thing and a lot of people use it.
Reginald pushes his glasses up a bit, "But how do we even go about that if our accounts keep getting banned?"
Cass shrugs, "I--I really don't know. But where there's a will, there's a way, right? If we can find another social media platform and work with it, maybe that'll help? Twitter, maybe?"
Ruby scoffs, "It's a microblogging website and the character limits are stifling! I mean...come on! How are we supposed to get anything done with that kind of restriction?!" She adjusts the beret on her head and leans back in her seat, looking frustrated.
Adam leans forward and says, "Let's not give up hope so soon. We'll find a way around this. I'll go over some things and get back to you once I'm certain."
From there, the meeting goes over a few other things- placard designs (Ruby is VERY insistent on designing any and all placards), routes for the protest, and a few other minor details.
It's nearly 1 PM by the time the group discussion draws to a close. They also take their time to go over the history of Palestine and the Zionist movement in the UK.
The group usually does lunch if meetings go on for long enough. Shirin knows this great restaurant down the street that serves excellent dishes from the world over, and at a fairly affordable price.
What better way to get to know a group of people than over scran? Cassandra readily accepts the invitation. They head over to a cozy-looking restaurant that isn't far off. The interior is pretty cool. It's got a very modern look and feel to it. The tables are nice and spread out, too.
A fountain sits in the center of the eating establishment, spurting forth fresh water. A few colorful fishes swim around in the fountain. Cass snaps a pic and decides to show it to Amy later.
Colin takes his time to arrive, mentioning that he had to swing by the pharmacy to pick up some medication. He doesn't seem to be in a good mood as he settles into his seat. He takes off his flat cap and rubs his face while groaning.
He sits at the head of the table. Shirin and Adam are adjacent to him. Reginald is seated next to Shirin while Ruby sits next to Adam.
Cassandra sits directly opposite Colin and feels a wee bit nervous. She smiles at everyone and gives them her attention. She prefers to let them do the talking, hoping that something useful will slip up when chins are wagged.
The menu is quite varied. As such, Cassandra is overwhelmed and has no idea what to order!
Ruby nudges Adam with her elbow and points at something on the menu. She follows it up with a snicker. Adam dryly laughs along with her.
Reginald takes off his glasses and wipes them with the nearby cloth napkin. He holds them up against the light, squinting. He puts them back on and sighs. Shirin shyly sips on her water and idly stares at the menu, already decided on what she'll get.
Colin's hand trembles ever so slightly when he goes over the menu. His breathing is also noticeably more labored than it was earlier.
The waiter soon comes along and takes everyone's orders.
Ruby goes first, "Yeah, I'll 'ave the Seatrout, but hold the asparagus and toss in some mushrooms if you can, yeah?"
Reginald goes next, "Gimme the Seasonal Soup." His eyes flit across the menu and he's about to ask for something else, but he stops himself, "I'll have that for now. Yes."
Shirin asks for the Blue Cheese Salad with a side of walnuts. She has the consideration to ask if Cassandra has a nut allergy before putting in her order.
The Ghoul shakes her head and smiles widely, "Nah, I'm great. Go ahead, Shirin."
Adam elects to go for a bowl of Chicken Fettuccini Alfredo Pasta.
Colin orders a piece of Portsmouth Fish Filet with a side of chips (fries). He mentions that his nan hails from that part of the UK.
All eyes fall on Cassandra. She wiggles in her seat and lets out an awkwardly nervous laugh, "O--oh! Haha! Um--um...I'll go for the Chicken Tikka Masala and some Jeera Rice."
She smiles and looks around, "Th--that'd be lovely, cheers!"
The waiter bows his head and hurries off to the kitchen to place the orders. The group begin to talk more about their personal lives. Cass is deeply careful in what she reveals about herself.
But she also wants to be friendly with these people- she doesn't want to seem like some random stranger who just came along and has no real interest in being a part of this group.
She plays the part of office drone perfectly, mentioning how humdrum and monotonous her work at some no-name office can get. But she also brings up how she's trying to make a difference, in whatever small way that she can.
Save for Colin (and maybe Shirin), the Ghoul's total cumulative age is far higher than the rest of the mortals at the table. It's not difficult for Cass to keep up with their conversations and banter.
Reginald does mention, with some bitterness lacing his tone, that he's lagging behind in his studies. And there's a chance that his professor may not be giving him the passing grade that he needs to continue with his studies. He's frustrated.
Shirin says that she's from Iran but came to the UK only quite recently. 2-ish years ago, as a matter of fact. She's still having some trouble adjusting to the culture and customs here but feels like she's slowly getting the hang of it.
She apparently used to work in a beauty salon somewhere in the city of Minab. She doesn't elaborate on what capacity she worked in. And she's fairly guarded about why she came to the UK in the first place.
Adam says he plans on taking a gap-year to Manchester, to sort of figure things out. Other than that, he tells the group how he and his girlfriend recently split up. It was amicable and they remain on good terms. He's been seeing other lasses since then.
Colin doesn't say much. He keeps checking his touch screen phone, squinting till the screen is nearly inches away from his nose. He grunts and sighs while texting someone.
Lastly, Ruby confesses that she is dying. The doctor's give her anywhere from 2 months to 2 years. She plainly refuses to elaborate on what she's dying from. All she says is that it's something to do with her body eating itself from the inside out.
That's why she's so insistent on doing some good in this world. As an artist, she intends to leave this world in a slightly better off state than when she entered it.
The conversation gets fairly lively. Food comes, steaming and piping hot. And the group digs in while they talk and do a little joking around. Cassandra tries her best to learn as much about the others as she possibly can without coming across as too nosy...or suspicious.
Colin's smartphone rings. He excuses himself and leaves to take the call.
Cass checks her Blackberry phone and sees that Amy still hasn't replied to her text message. She feels her heart sink in her chest.
When a large group of people flock into the restaurant, Reginald's face contorts into a grimace. Cassandra notices this and follows his stern gaze.
"What's up?" Cass asks him.
Reginald jerks his chin over to the group, "They are. Fucking Gen4 Security. Tossers. Gen4's a private security firm that, according to my research, is engaged in all manner of shady shit. It goes far beyond providing security for that lot."
Adam abruptly shifts in his seat and nods, "Yeah, I've heard about them." He takes another bite of his pasta and says nothing more.
Shirin lowers her head slightly, "Yes, I have heard of them as well. Their reputation precedes them. And it is not exactly a stellar or upright one."
Cassandra looks back at the group of people who just walked in. All gray suits and carefree demeanors. They're laughing and having a grand old time.
Colin slowly speaks up, "Heard from a Facebook mate of mine that they're also in the business of disappearing people."
Ruby shudders, "Yeah. I've seen some stuff online about 'em. Truth be told, I don't really know which of it is false and which of it is plausible. But all of it paints quite a disturbing picture if you know how to read between the lines, yeah."
Reginald pushes his glasses up again and sighs, "Let's just focus on what we're doing here. Sod them."
Adam briefly snickers, "Yeah. Haha! Sod them!"
The conversation over the meals goes hither and thither. But the topic of Gen4 Security does come up a few more times. If there's a protest, one can be certain that Gen4 will be there to provide security not for the protestors but for the types on the other side of the divide as it were.
Cassandra learns a few more interesting tidbits while volunteering some information about herself. She's cautious all the way through. Once lunch is over, everyone pays their part of the bill and splits.
There's another meeting scheduled for tomorrow. Same time- 11 AM sharp. Same place, too. The group members say their respective goodbyes, wish each other well, and disperse.
Cassandra takes her sweet time to walk back to the hotel. She looks over her shoulder every now and again to ensure that she isn't being followed or tracked.
Once she's in the safety of her hotel room, the Toreador Ghoul flops down on her bed and exhales slowly. She turns on the TV, keeping the volume at a low level. The afternoon drizzle outside slowly intensifies till it becomes a proper downpour.
When the sun sets, she'll report her findings to Salim. In the meantime, she checks her phone and decides to give Amy a ring. It rings once...
Twice...
Thrice...
Amy finally picks up after the 4th ring. Her voice is tired and drawn out, "Hmph. Hi."
"You've been avoiding me--"
Amy sighs heavily, "No, Cass. I have not been avoiding you. I've been busy trying to make ends meet in a school that is literally crumbling before my very eyes! Do you have any idea how frightened some of the pupils are. And I am utterly powerless to do a fucking thing about it!"
She sounds frustrated. Cassandra can almost feel her anger through the phone.
Cassandra winces and responds, "I'm sorry. Really, I am. If there's anything that I can do from me end--"
"No, Cass. You can't do anything to help. We've already been over--tch, never mind. How's...how's Birmingham?"
"It's a nice place, yeah."
Amy narrows her eyes and queries, "What exactly are you there for, hmm?"
Cassandra evasively answers, "Eh...y'know. Stuff and things. Kind of related to work, but kind of not. I signed NDAs and stuff, so please don't pry."
"Right. Fine. Look, I have to head home now. After your incessant texting and calling at odd hours, she's starting to get suspicious of me. A lot more suspicious. Please be careful next time."
Cassandra looks up at the ceiling and sighs, "I know, Amy. I know. I'm sorry, I just...really like you."
"I really like you too, Cass. But we have to be smart about this. I wish you all the best in whatever it is that you're doing in Birmingham, sweetie. I hope you come back to me in 1 piece. 1 sexy and intact piece."
"Yeah. I--I hope so, too. Bye, Amy."
"Bye, Cass. Mwah."
The call ends and Cassandra drops her phone on the bed. She shuts her eyes tight and rubs her face, feeling a swirl of emotions. It's kinda difficult for her. If she picks the wrong person, she'll indubitably be condemning them to a messy death.
Her thoughts are interrupted when someone knocks on the door. Room service? She doesn't recall ordering anything from room service.
She stands behind the door and loudly asks, "Yeah?"
The paranoid Ghoul from earlier harshly whispers, "Let me in! Quickly!"
Cassandra opens the door and the Assamite Ghoul hurriedly walks into the room, closing the door behind her.
The young woman impatiently paces back and forth, looking around with suspicion written on her face, "I think I was followed. W--what did you find? Anything useful?"
Cass answers, "I'm still looking. I need time, yeah? And I need a way to get into the other groupings, too."
"No. no. Not until you've confirmed that your current group is not compromised. We--we are putting a lot on the line by trusting you, Toreador. A lot. If you cross us...I can't even begin to imagine the consequences of such an action."
"I won't. I promise. I'm doing this because this genuinely means a lot to me. Yours is a cause that's fully justified, yeah? I want to do me part. I--I really do."
The Assamite Ghoul is put (somewhat) at ease by Cassandra's sincerity.
She nods and says, "Very well. I will return soon, and we shall see if your words ring true or not. Meet Salim at the same place you met him last night. 8:30 PM. He has other matters to see to, so don't be late. And be ready to give him a--a full account of everything you've observed so far. The slightest details can prove vital to us."
With those words, the Assamite Ghoul hastily exits the room. She pulls her hoodie over her head and walks away, trying to keep a low profile.
Cassandra sharply exhales and rubs her temples, feeling a wee bit tired. She mentally goes over what she's managed to gather so far. But it's all very limited. Not exactly enough to paint an accurate picture.
But she knows that she's getting close. For now, she strips down and lays her head on the pillow. Sleep soon takes her as she lies down, snoring loudly. Some drool runs down the corner of her mouth as she rests, deeply immersed in her naptime.
It isn't long before the sun makes its hasty descent. Cassandra awakens from her slumber and gets dressed- she wears the same thing that she had on earlier.
A 13th Ghoul has been reported dead. He was found in an alleyway, shot in the forehead and in the chest. His body was then set on fire.
Cassandra is escorted to the same place from last night. Salim has a grim look on his face. He sits with his fingers interlocked, staring intently at the Toreador Ghoul.
Cass takes her seat opposite the troubled Assamite, "I--I just heard. I'm so sorry."
Salim glares at her, "Help me catch this fiend. Report your findings from the morning, please." There's a harsh edge to his tone. He sounds more disturbed than he did earlier.
Cassandra shyly asks, "What about the other groupings?"
Salim stifles a sigh, "You don't believe that the infiltrator is amongst the group that you are currently in? Why? I have my own suspicions about each of them, but I would like to hear your take on it, too. I myself, due to external pressures, cannot be too certain on this matter."
Cass shrugs and leans forward, "From what I've seen so far, it could be anyone in the group, yeah. But I--I can't help feeling a bit...wrong about the whole thing, Salim. Spying on people and--and lying to them! It's not me style, never has been. And never will be!"
The Assamite faintly sighs, "I can sympathize with that. It is ugly, but it is necessary- that has been a defining feature of the Blade of Haqim for these last few decades. We are not without fault. But our cause is righteous, just, and pure."
"No disagreeing with you there, yeah. Err--"
Salim regards her expectantly, "Yes?"
Cassandra begins to recount everything to the best of her ability. Salim patiently listens and nods every now and again. He takes down some notes, too. He's left-handed. Cassandra didn't notice this until now. He also wears a silver watch around his right wrist.
On Reginald, Cass brings up his PHD, his lagging behind on the studies, and how his professor might not give him the grade that he needs to continue with his studies.
Salim dryly remarks, "A cause for frustration. Or it could be a convincing cover story."
When it comes to Shirin, she seems rather evasive about certain aspects of her life.
Salim takes this into consideration by saying, "Not suspect in and of itself. But I know how...deceitful our enemies can be. They could've flipped her. Blackmailed her into doing their bidding, even.
Cassandra points out, "Ruby's dying. I don't know of what, exactly- she won't say. What reason would a dying woman 'ave to do something like this? She's sincere about this!" She's got a point.
Salim nods, "I have seen her medical records, so she isn't lying. But that does not preclude her from being an agent of opportunity. Maybe she wants to...go out with a bang? Hmm?"
As for Adam, Cassandra mentions his recent breakup and online activity, "I've seen some of his posts online, yeah? He's got a certain bite to his words when he's talking about this sort of stuff. Maybe it could be an act?" She's not so sure.
Salim shrugs a shoulder, "It very well could be."
Cassie finishes by saying, "Colin's a pensioner. And I saw that he was struggling with his smartphone. Like, really, genuinely struggling with it. But...it could also be an act?"
Salim scratches his ear, "I've seen Colin since his time as a binman. But anything is possible, I suppose." He's very guarded with his words.
Cassandra lets out a slightly frustrated sigh, "I know. It could be anyone, Salim. That's what makes all of this so fucking difficult!"
Salim leans back in his chair and quietly exhales, "Hm. Yes."
The Ghoul changes the subject by querying, "How exactly do you know Gregory?"
"Did he not tell you of these things prior to sending you here?" The Assamite's tone is mildly derisive.
"I want to hear it from you. You know how...distant Greg can be sometimes. I get the feeling that he's sending me to do stuff and leaves me to figure out the rest. N--not that I'm complaining, mind you. But I'd like to know a bit more about...his acquaintances, yeah?"
The Banu Haqim jots down a few things before setting his pen down, "We...procured certain items for your Domitor. And none of it involved a trip to the local pound shop."
He chuckles and goes on, "Given our near mastery of the Obfuscate Discipline, we were the right picks for his many requests. A painting in this MPs house, a vase in that manor, etcetera. We moved like the wind- in and out. No casualties. Well, at most, a guard who had to be non-lethally pacified or subdued."
Cassandra smirks and nods along, "Makes sense. Did you ever feel pressured into doing any of the more...unsavory stuff?"
"As it is, we are already at a disadvantage- numerous reasons that I do not wish to delve into because it would take too long. As such, we take any opportunities that we are given. And your Domitor- despite his shortcomings- has been very helpful to us, so we repay him in kind."
Cassandra gulps, "Yeah, that's how it usually works in Kindred Society. Favors more so than anything else, really."
Salim mirthlessly chuckles, "And grudges. You'd be surprised for how long some of our kind hold onto those."
Cassandra gets back to the (pressing) matter at hand, "You know that there's an Elbit facility around here, right? Could there be some sort of connection? Also, what about the other groupings? I've only spoken to 1 so far."
"To shuffle someone new like you around would only serve to raise suspicion. These are the ones whom I suspect the most. Until they are cleared of all suspicion, I am hesitant to put you in any other grouping. And yes, I do know of the facility that is complicit in the annihilation of my people. They are known to us on many levels."
Cass prods, "'Ave you tried following them around yourself or having some of your mates follow them around, yeah?"
"It's not that easy, unfortunately. And the increased police presence doesn't aid matters. Besides, we can't stay Obfuscated forever. My brother- Malik- is currently seeing to some matters in Exeter. Our own Primogen is aiding a convoy of the Blood Trade in Bristol. So, I am left to...hold the fort, so to speak. To manage things in this Domain that pertain to our Clan."
Cassandra favors him with a sympathetic look, "Gregory would've been proper awkward for this, yeah? You--you're not cross that he's not 'ere, are you?"
The Assamite sighs and shakes his head, "No. As a matter of fact, I am grateful that he sent you in his stead. Otherwise, organizing these meetings in the evening time would be another headache that I simply do not have the patience or the temperament for."
He pauses and adds, "Any of us trailing them would incur suspicion. Birmingham is a fairly big city. There are also plenty of tight-knit communities here and there. 1 misspoken word and the infiltrator would surely pick up on it and scurry away like the filthy rat that they are. We must be exceedingly careful with how we proceed."
Cassandra hesitantly offers, "I could follow them around, yeah? I came in me Lexus- secondhand, nothing too flashy."
Salim nods approvingly, "If you so please. But be cautious all the same. You are still in Camarilla territory."
"What about getting the Prince and Sheriff involved? I mean, Ghouls are getting murdered left and right. Surely, they'd do something, right?"
The Assassin shakes his head, "This is something that is better handled internally. And our Primogen has...a strained relationship with the current Prince and Sheriff of this Domain. Nevertheless, when we do have something important, we might approach them for assistance."
Cassandra blows a raspberry and thinks out loud, "Well, I've given you everything I got. Where does that leave us now? Night's still young and I could take me car to do a bit of snooping around if you want."
Salim nods, "Very well. Do that. Unfortunately, I will not be able to ride with you. I have...funeral arrangements to see to. Please keep me posted on your progress." There's a certain heaviness in his voice when he mentions this.
Cassandra reaches over the table and gives him a gentle pat on the shoulder, "I'll do me best to help catch this fucker, yeah? I really want to help."
Salim gives her an appreciative nod and wishes her all the best in her endeavors. Cass stands up and leaves.
When her footsteps recede, the Assamite sighs deeply and interlocks his fingers once again, "I do hope that whomever you pick is the guilty party, Toreador. For the Blade shall Judge them, severely, harshly, and without mercy. And if they turn out to be innocent..."
He trails off and clicks his tongue. A few seconds pass before he resumes speaking, "It would be a great stain on all of our character, our Humanity."
The Banu Haqim closes his eyes and forces a few deep breaths through his lifeless lungs. He can only pray and hope for the right outcome.
Soon enough, Gregory's Ghoul is in the Lexus. The wind blows her brown hair about as she starts the car, reverses out of the parking spot, and drives down the road. A downpouring of rain makes visibility very low.
Cass drives by an NHS pharmacy. She sees Colin standing in line to get his medications. He's wrapped in layers of clothing and shivering slightly. An elderly woman with a cane stands behind him, looking equally as frustrated as he is.
Cassandra winces and tells herself, "He's just a pensioner. He can't possibly be who we're after, r--right? I mean, what reason could a pensioner 'ave to betray us? Besides, he said it himself- he's been serious about this for quite some time! Why'd he do a sudden U-turn so late in his life?"
She keeps on driving. When she goes past a particular residential street, she spots Adam exiting a house in a fairly upscale part of the neighborhood. The man looks like he's on a mission- a mission to get to the nearest pub, at least.
Adam throws his bomber jacket on, shoves his hands deep in his pockets, looks left and right, and strides forward. His head is lowered, and he's wearing a cap to keep his hair from getting wet.
When he walks by the Ghoul's car, she slides lower in her seat, careful not to alert the man. She licks her lips and carefully trails him till he stops by a pub. Some of his mates from uni are there. They greet each other with firm handshakes and pats on the back.
Cass decides to park nearby and wait for something interesting to happen. She heads in and takes up in a dark corner of this dimly lit public house. Their conversation looks a bit lively- lots of laughter and smiling.
So as not to arouse suspicion, Cassandra orders a tall glass of lemon juice, which she sips every now and again. It costs £5.
Adam eventually notices her from the corner of his eye. He orders another pint of lager and a packet of crisps before making his way over to her.
He fixes her with a puzzled look, "Hello."
Cassandra smiles nervously and greets him, "Hiya! I...err...I didn't notice you. How are you doing?"
"Fine. Mind if I join you?" Without waiting for approval, he sits opposite her.
Cass awkwardly says, "Oh, go right ahead."
Adam inquires, "This a usual spot of yours, Cassandra?"
"Ehh. A bit off me beaten path. Friend at the office recommended it to me."
Adam nods along, "Huh. Interesting." He doesn't take his eyes off of her.
Cassandra nervously asks, "You...how's your studies going? 1st year BA, eh? That's something! Is it what you've always wanted to do?"
Adam shrugs a shoulder, "Yeah, it's...fine, I guess. My old man wanted me to be a doctor. But I don't really have the stomach for that kinda thing, if I'm being frank with you."
"Hmm. Right..." Cassandra trails off and decides to leave, fearing that he'll somehow see through her ruse.
She makes her excuses and stands up, "Right, well, it's been a long day. And I--I got a cat back home that needs feeding. Rufus is his name, yeah. He gets right mental when he gets hungry, y'know?"
The Toreador Ghoul waves and walks away. Adam frowns at her suspicious behavior. She gets in the Lexus and drives off.
Cassandra happens upon Ruby, who's exiting the library with a heavy bag full of books slung over her shoulder. She adjusts her beret and crosses the street in a rather hasty manner. The Ghoul slows down and keeps a discreet enough distance from the dying artist.
Ruby turns a corner and enters a nearby alleyway. She sets her bag down on the floor and raps her knuckles on a door. It's painted dark green, with a bunch of faded characters engraved upon it. The door groans open and she walks into this rather dubious looking establishment.
Cassandra parks a few paces away and decides to be a bit brave. She takes a risk and knocks on the same door. A fairly plain-looking man with dull blue eyes answers the door, "Yeah? You need something?"
The Ghoul nervously stands on the balls of her feet, "Err, yeah. I'm here for the...thing, y'know--"
To her surprise, he nods her in and gently closes the door behind her. The interior is fairly average- concrete walls, white-tiled floors, a few chairs stacked up, and a bunch of flyers pinned to a bulletin board.
Cassandra asks, "So...the thing."
The man slowly walks on, "Mm-hmm. Men's naked drawing group. For purposes of honing and refining one's craft, nothing more. I don't see any supplies with you, miss...?"
"Uhm...Amy? D--do you know a Ruby?"
"Yes. She's a regular in our group. Poor lass has...months, at best. Might I ask why you're inquiring about her?"
"I'm..." Cassandra nervously gulps and uneasily smiles, "A mate of hers. F--from Facebook, yeah! Facebook. Actually, I think I saw an--an advert online sometime back."
"Hmm. Yes. We're starting in 5--"
Cassandra quickly turns on her heel and hurriedly walks away, "Yup! Uhm, I'm sorry for wasting your time! Don't tell Ruby I--I was here, OK? You go ahead and--and--and start without me, yeah? I just remembered that I 'ave to go to the shops and grab some--some pies for me nan, y'know! She's proper fond of 'em, she is! B--bye!"
She awkwardly waves and hurries out of there, shutting the door behind her. She gets in her car and drives off.
Makes sense for an artist like Ruby to want to perfect her skills as an artist before her infirmity takes her away from this world.
It takes an hour before Cassandra is able to track Shirin down. The latter is finally seen exiting some kind of bureaucratic government building with a pained expression clearly written on her face. She looks rather tired and frustrated.
Shirin adjusts her hijab and waits by the bus stop. She wipes some tears from her eyes and sniffles.
Cassandra parks nearby and rolls her window down, "Oi, Shirin!"
The other lady nearly jumps out of her skin when she hears her name being called. She looks around before cautiously approaching Cassandra's car.
"Oh...hello, Cassandra."
The Ghoul pats the passenger seat and invites the woman inside, "Come on. You look like you could use a lift, yeah?"
"Are you sure?"
Cass shrugs, "I got a full tank of petrol."
Shirin hesitates before getting in the car. She closes the door and puts the seatbelt on, "Thank you. I just had another meeting with the people at the Home Office. Some issues...with my visa. They are making a fuss because of some or the other technicality that is far outside of my control."
Cassandra begins driving, "Sorry to hear that. Right bleedin' bastards they can be sometimes, that lot. You need a hand sorting things out? Maybe a barrister?"
Shirin stares out the window vacantly, "That is kind of you, but I will be fine."
Shirin asks to be dropped off at a laundromat. She says, "The washing machine in my home is currently broken, so I am resorting to this. I called the repairman, but he is yet to dispatch someone."
Cassandra parks and offers her assistance, "I'll give you a hand if you need it, yeah?"
"Do you have some change for a fiver?" She holds up a polymer £5 note with Sir Winston Churchill's ugly mug on it.
"Oh, yeah, sure!" Cassandra digs in her handbag for some coins before handing them over to Shirin. The 2 ladies enter the laundromat- it's dimly lit, a tad grimy, and there's only 1 old man here reading a newspaper. He's got a pair of headphones on.
Coin-operated washers and dryers and folding tables for laundry are set out in rows. Cassandra helps load Shirin's laundry into a dryer. Shirin puts in the coins needed. The 2 eventually strike up a conversation about fairly mundane things.
Shirin shyly inquires, "Cassandra, if you do not mind me asking, what exactly drew you to our pro-Palestine group? It is just that I have come across my fair share of insincere people over the years- opportunists, liars, provocateurs, and such."
"Oh, I--I'm sincere about this. Really, I am. I care about this issue deeply. I see what the Israelis are doing in--in Gaza and even the West Bank. Calling it apartheid is understating matters! It's far worse! I never really paid attention to all this before, I'll admit that. But what's been going on these past few months has made me properly take notice of all of this, yeah."
Shirin is somewhat satisfied by that answer, if her "Hmm" is anything to go by. She sits back and watches the clothes go round and round. A tear rolls down her cheek and she sniffles again. She wipes it with her handkerchief and shakes her head.
"Sorry, sorry. I--I should not be like this..."
"Something's bothering you? What is it? You can tell me, yeah? I'm a good listener."
Shirin lets out a shaky breath and lowers her voice, "I--I might have overstayed my visa. The authorities don't necessarily know that yet, but I am afraid that they shall soon find out. And if they do, then the life which I've built here, the friends which I've made...it will all be over."
Cassandra presses her lips into a thin line and places a hand on the other woman's knee, "I'm sorry. I wish there was something I could do to help you out, yeah? C--can I do something to help you out?"
Shirin forces a smile and shakes her head, "It's OK."
"People 'ere have done far worse than overstaying their visas...and they're walking the streets freely. I know that it's not bloody fair, but it's true."
Shirin has an expectant look on her tired face, "Please don't report me to anybody. Especially the police? Promise me that, Cassandra?"
Cassandra silently nods. Shirin gives her a grateful smile and pats her hand in appreciation. She says that she can grab the bus back to her house.
"It isn't that far off, actually. You should be getting home now. It's getting late. And I don't like being out late at night either, for...many reasons. Sometimes, I--I see the shadows moving on their own."
Cassandra stands up, bids the other woman farewell, and leaves.
Cassandra drives through the city for another hour. No sign of Reginald in the usual spots. Where would a PHD student usually hang out around here?
The Ghoul eventually sees him strolling down the wet sidewalk with his hands shoved deep in his pockets. He's wearing a brightly colored yellow heavy-duty raincoat. His galoshes are also rather vibrant.
Cassandra turns the headlights of her Lexus down. She squints and observes him from afar. He stops by a worksite and flashes something or the other to the security guard on duty. The guard nods and lets him through.
Cassandra waits a few minutes. Reginald still hasn't come out. She gets out of her car and walks towards the gate. She approaches the guard and asks her, "Oi, who did you just let in?"
The security guard is tall and thin. She's got a slight scar near her lower lip. She asks in a low voice, "Who's asking?"
Cassandra conjures up a lie and states, "I'm...with the Met. And that man you just let in? He's on a watchlist...or 2. What's his name? Wh--what's he doing 'ere?"
The security guard blandly answers, "Reginald. He works here part-time, officer...?"
Cassandra lifts her chin and prods, "Not relevant. I'm here about Reggie, not me. How long has he been working here? Do you know him well?"
The security guard raises an eyebrow, "Yeah, he's been working here for a couple of months now. Went for some drinks after, but he was too tired to come with us to the pub. Should I be worried about him being a terrorist or something?"
"What exactly does he do here?"
The guard beckons to the half-done structure behind her, "What do you think? He works with the construction crew."
Cassandra nods and points at the other lady, "We never 'ad this conversation, you never saw me. We never spoke. And not a word of this to Reggie, yeah? But--but don't act all weird around him, too. That may tip him off."
The security guard shrugs, "Sure, whatever you say, officer. Will that be all?"
Cassandra gives the lady a quick and curt nod before returning to her car.
Reginald taking this job would explain his lagging behind in his studies. Money's must be pretty tight for him to be resorting to such desperate measures.
When Cassandra gets back to her hotel, she locks the door behind her and throws herself on the bed with a loud groan.
She pulls her Blackberry out and shoots Amy a text: "Me feet are killig me!"
Amy texts back with a simple laughing emoji.
The 2 of them spend a few minutes texting before a heavy sleepiness overtakes the Toreador Ghoul. She yawns and stretches before putting her phone aside and shutting her eyes. Within mere minutes, her loud snoring dominates the hotel room.
Much later...
The infiltrator makes a phone call.
A man on the other end of the line picks up. His accent is stiff and formal, "You have news for me?"
"Not necessarily. Just checking in, sir. We've got a new addition to our part of the group. She's a complete and utter moron, by all accounts."
"Really now? Is she going to be a threat to your cover?"
The infiltrator shakes their head from side to side and confidently replies, "No, sir. She's just as clueless as the others."
The man on the other end of the line orders, "Drop by the Elbit facility tomorrow. After you're done with that silly little group chat of yours."
"Understood, Captain."
"Will there be anything else?"
"No, Captain. Are we getting any closer to the blank body threat in this city?"
The man straightens his posture and firmly answers, "We are peeling the layers off, 1 by 1. It's only a matter of time now. When they inevitably make a grave error of judgment, we shall swoop in and end them all. But don't get overconfident. It wouldn't be the first time that these creatures have slipped out of our grasp. Crafty buggers."
The infiltrator notes, "That's why you called me in. A specialist in subversion and undercover work."
"Yes. You understand your purpose perfectly. Get some rest now. We'll speak more once there's something of value that you have uncovered."
"Understood. Goodnight, Captain."
"Likewise."
Uh-oh.
Well, at least these bastards (whoever they are) don't suspect Cassandra of anything. One hopes that she uncovers the infiltrator's identity...and soon!
The sun begins to rise. A ray of light comes through the window. Cassandra rubs the sleep (and sleep crust) from her eyes. She groans and rolls over. She wiggles around on the bed and opts to catch a few more zees.
Cassandra groggily wakes up at 9:27 AM. She elaborately stretches herself before slowly sitting up. She yawns and looks at her phone before shoving the charging cable into it. She gets ready for her morning routine.
The Toreador Ghoul strips out of her sleeping vest and knickers. She discards them into a corner of the room before walking over to the bathroom. She sways her hips from side to side while singing a few lines from her favorite singer.
She repeats those cheesy, recurring lines from Nicola Green's 2007 album. It's an upbeat and catchy little song about yearning and desire. Cassandra really vibes with it.
The Ghoul's singing becomes louder as she steps into the shower cubicle. The warm water cascades down her naked, curvaceous body. She runs her fingers through her long brown hair, enjoying the feeling of the water caressing her skin.
After thoroughly washing herself and brushing her teeth, she wraps the towel around her body and steps out. She wipes the condensation from the mirror with her hand and looks at herself.
For this day's outfit, she goes for a Burberry's checkered cotton dress that comes all the way down to her ankles. Stud earrings and assorted bangles complete her ensemble.
Cassandra applies only a bit of makeup- some dark eyeliner and concealer along with some lip gloss. She fluffs up her hair before leaving her hotel room.
She fiddles with the colorful hairclips in her hands as she walks down the hallway. She eventually snaps a few of them onto her long hair.
The Ghoul heads down to the hotel's restaurant and takes her time to select from among the many buffet offerings. She helps herself to a small bowl of mixed fruit, a cuppa some Yorkshire tea, and some mini scones.
She devours her meal, feeling a bit icky about the whole thing. Something about spying on people and giving them half-truths just don't sit right with her.
But she does tell herself that it's for a good cause. At least it'll stop another innocent Ghoul from being brutally murdered.
After breakfast, she decides to go for a quick stroll through the city. 11 AM is a long way off, so she has plenty of time to spare in the meanwhile.
Cassandra ends up heading down to the local library. She plops herself down on a beanbag and grabs whatever's within reach. She ends up reading through some bland thriller.
It's now 10:49 AM. She better get moving if she wants to get there in time for the meeting. Cass sincerely hopes that the infiltrator will inadvertently slip up and reveal their true intentions today.
She's soon in the usual breakroom. The usual faces are already present.
Reginald's eyes are baggy and his cheeks are rather gaunt. He looks as if he hasn't had a decent night's sleep. He tiredly greets Cassandra and gives his arm a slight pinch to help keep himself awake.
Shirin's wearing a black hijab with a floral design today. Her smile doesn't quite reach her eyes as she asks how everybody else is doing.
Ruby glares at Cassandra quizzically before going back to scribbling something or the other on her notepad.
Colin dusts his checkered flat cap and adjusts the scarf around his neck.
Adam's eyes dart to the analogue clock mounted on the wall every few seconds.
Colin gently brings his hands together in a soft clap, "Right, then! Shall we begin? Does anyone have anything to say- anything at all- before we proceed? We are eager to get this protest underway, but we want to ensure that everybody is fully on board with this."
Reginald stifles a yawn and blinks rapidly, "I'm fully on-board, mate. Yeah, we should be able to make it work."
Shirin avoids making eye contact when admitting, "I am still speaking with the others. No luck yet, but I hope to change that soon."
Ruby faintly mumbles, "I'm working on the designs for our placards. Just leave that to me, yeah? We want them to be eye-catching, a tad bold, and fully able to convey our demands to those who'll even bother to see. I...I can manage that."
Adam has got his arms crossed over his chest, "And I've got some of my mates interested in joining the actual protests. I can vouch for them, they're good lads. Solidarity, y'know? But I don't know how many of them are willing to risk getting arrested for this...should it go sideways for whatever reason."
Colin gives everybody an approving nod and musters up a smile, "Right, right, excellent! We're making progress. Slowly, but surely. Let's hope that this protest actually happens soon. You mightn't know this, Cassandra, but there's a lot that goes into organizing something like this. There are a number of formalities that need to be sorted out."
Shirin timidly raises her hand, "If I may? Have--have we yet received the appropriate permits from the authorities?"
Adam frowns and shrugs his shoulders, "I think someone in another grouping has an MP's number, so that should help expedite the process. But I wouldn't hold my breath..." He trails off and looks at the clock again.
Colin continues, "There's still a lot to do, but we should be able to get it done. Now, let's go over the routes once more. We're going to want to avoid the Synagogue on Blucher Street--"
Ruby interjects with a scoff, "Why? If we make a bunch of upper-class Jews uncomfortable, so fucking what? That's what we want to do, innit?"
Colin winces a little, "We're going to want to avoid going past there lest the tabloids paint us in a bad light, Ruby. As it is, we're not exactly their favorite types of people. It would do us no favors to be seen marching past such a place."
Reginald sighs heavily, "Fuck the tabloids. After that nasty phone hacking business, you'd have thought that their readership would've crumbled by now. But I still see plenty of people lining up to buy Rupert Murdoch's rags. I don't see the appeal in any of it, personally."
Shirin points out, "The tabloids in this country are like a--a virus, infecting the hearts, souls, and minds of the people. It's disturbing. And quite tasteless. Especially those Page 3 girls, or whatever they call themselves. Vile."
Cassandra leans back in her seat and casually says, "I'm sure we'll make it work. Adam, are you doing alright? Your leg's shaking and you keep looking at the clock. You 'ave a class to be at or something?"
Adam stiffens up and shakes his head, "N--no. It's more of a review session, really. Exams aren't anytime soon, so I--I get to breathe a little, yeah?"
The group discuss other matters before eventually adjourning the meeting. They all start leaving. Shirin asks if everyone wants to do lunch today, just like yesterday.
Reginald rubs the base of his neck, "I got a doctoral dissertation that needs editing AND I got a mate who needs help with hers. Sorry. Maybe another time, hmm?"
Ruby tugs on her bone horn earring and declines, "Got a doctor's appointment to keep up. Not that it matters anymore, but I guess it's better safe than sorry."
Shirin then turns to Adam, Colin, and Cassandra, "Would you like to come?"
Colin puts on his flat cap and politely declines, "Can't, sorry. I got a pain all over me body. Shivers, too. Took me 5 whole minutes to get out of bed and to the bathroom. Old man problems, haha! I'm feeling a bit poorly, too."
Shirin nods and shifts her gaze towards Adam.
Adam taps his digital watch and plainly states, "I have to complete my reviews, Shirin. Sorry. Maybe Cassandra would like to join you?"
All eyes are on Cassandra now.
The Ghoul gently lets Shirin down by stating a (plausible) excuse, "Me nan's been cross with me lately. I reckon that I'll go and try to smooth things over with her. You know how nans can be, right?"
Colin chuckles, "Oh, yes! Indeed! I wish you the best of luck, Cassandra."
Shirin gives the other members of the group a sad little smile, "Well, I guess it is just me today. I--I understand. Life, more often than not, tends to get in the way. But perhaps...another time?"
Adam nods and quickly makes himself scarce.
Colin smiles widely at Shirin and hobbles away.
Ruby winks at Shirin before leaving.
Reginald tells the older lady, "Absolutely. Once I get my shit sorted, I'd love to do lunch with you and everybody else. Cheers!"
Cassandra asks, "Need me to drop you anywhere?"
Shirin ponders the question for a few seconds before politely declining, "It's fine, thank you. I think I'll walk. I was thinking of buying a scooter. But I am afraid of...well, you know what we discussed last night, right?"
"Hmm. Yeah. You should get in touch with, reach out to someone who's capable of helping. See if they can do something about it, yeah? They'll understand your circumstances. I'm sure of it."
"Maybe you're right, Cassandra. Thank you. I will do that once I get home. Have a--a pleasant day."
Cass wishes her well and walks out of the breakroom. When she steps outside of the music hall, Adam accosts her. She nearly jumps out of her skin and lets out a slight yelp.
Adam extends his hands out in a placating gesture, "Whoa, whoa, it's just me. Relax. Take it easy."
Cassandra glares at him and remarks, "You shouldn't sneak up on people like that, yeah?"
"Eh. Old habit of mine. Hard to break. Anyway, I wanted to know what your socials are. You know, Facebook, Twitter, Reddit, that sort of thing. It'd help us all keep in touch with each other, especially if something important comes up."
Cassandra thinks up an excuse and smoothly says, "Oh. I--I deactivated most of those, sorry. After me...partner moved to Sweden, I couldn't bring meself to go on social media anymore. Too many memories, yeah? Some of which were painful."
Adam rubs the back of his head and gives her a sympathetic smile, "I'm sorry to hear that. As someone currently going through a breakup, I can empathize with your pain. But you've got to move on eventually. Right?"
Cassandra side-eyes him and tersely replies, "I guess so."
Adam slowly chuckles and pats the side of her arm before going off. He shoves a pair of earphones deep into his ears as he walks down the steps.
Cassandra's brows knit together in deep suspicion. Why'd he just come up and ask for her socials? Was he waiting for her out here? Why? She feels that something is very wrong, but she can't quite put a finger on it just yet.
She decides to feed her suspicious curiosity by following Adam. He hails a taxicab and gets into it. Cassandra keeps her hands firmly on the steering wheel of her Lexus and does her best to keep up with the speedy taxi.
They make their way out the outskirts of this city. The cars start to get a bit too scarce for Cassandra's liking. Her suspicion only deepens.
The taxi soon rolls to an abrupt stop in front of an empty lot. Adam pays the cabbie and steps out. He surveys his surroundings with narrowed eyes before walking down the road.
Cassandra slows her car down and maintains a safe distance from him. She squints and cranes her neck when she notices that he's walking towards a worn path. Scores and scores of large trees surround her and the road.
Adam suddenly stops and looks over his shoulder. Cassandra gets out of her car and ducks behind a tree. Her heart's racing and sweat is starting to form on her forehead. A light drizzle starts.
She peeks her head out and sees Adam picking up the pace. His head is lowered and his fists are clenched. He disappears deeper into the woods.
What kind of a review session is this?!
Cass carefully trails after him, taking care to hide behind trees every so often. The muddy ground beneath her feet is making it a tad difficult to stealthily follow someone. And the footprints sort of blend in with the wet and thick mud.
Adam eventually comes to a stop. In front of him stands a fairly gargantuan facility of some kind. It's nestled deep in the woods.
The entire structure is dull looking from the outside- colorless walls with bits of moss growing on them. An electrified chain-link fence surrounds the perimeter of the whatever this place is.
Cassandra gasps softly when she spots a few security cameras (very hi-tech looking) installed on a large pole near a small guard's booth. A guard sits within, smoking a cigarette while reading through a magazine.
Adam approaches the guard and exchanges some kind of friendly, informal, and casual handshake with him. The guard lets him in. Adam walks past the entrance and into the facility.
Cassandra sneaks closer. Her jaw goes slack when she sees a sign that reads: "Elbit Systems" above the main entrance. Adam's figure fades away into the distance.
Holy Nod...
She gulps the lump of fear in her throat and slowly backs away. Her body shudders from the cold rain. She turns around and hastily returns to her car. Cassandra nearly trips and falls over a few times.
The Toreador Ghoul hops in, starts the car up, and peels out of there. The tires squeal and the brakes screech. She drives away as fast as her car will allow.
Her lower lips quiver as realization helps to banish the last bits of disbelief still lingering within her.
Adam is the infiltrator! Adam has been reporting back to someone all this fucking time!
Cassandra angrily slams the steering wheel and grunts.
Well, at least she now knows who it is. Before leaving, she managed to snap a few pics of the facility. Not that her Blackberry has the greatest of cameras, but it'll have to do for now.
Her hands are relentlessly shaking. Her heart thumps in her chest. She wants to stop and pull over, but she doesn't feel safe just yet.
The evening cannot come soon enough...
Cassandra skipped lunch and has been staying awake with nothing but coffee and Jelly Babies. When the sun finally sets, she gets up from the bed and stretches out. Her spine pops a little.
She groans and watches at the sun finally retreats from view. Her lips are dry and her face is a little paler than usual.
Cassandra grabs her handbag and heads out to meet with Salim and relay the disturbing news to him. She only hopes that she's right and that Adam is indeed the infiltrator.
Then again, why would someone part of a pro-Palestine group just happily waltz into a fucking Elbit facility? What'd a person like that be doing near such a foul and wretched place, anyway?
(Apart from protesting it, of course. Or attempting to shut it down.)
And the way he was acting with the guard at the front- all chummy and friendly...it just doesn't add up. None of it does! The whole thing is making her head spin.
Cassandra wildly gesticulates and talks a bit too fast for Salim's liking when telling him about what she saw earlier today.
The Assamite calmly urges her, "Please, please. Calm down. You look...awful. Did you even take any rest in the afternoon?"
Cassandra's eyes are wide, "Couldn't! I--I was scared out of me mind! So, I spent the rest of the day locked up in me hotel room watching David Attenborough documentaries, drinking coffee, and eating Jelly Babies! Couldn't eat anything else, really. Didn't 'ave the appetite for it."
Salim's eyebrows go up a little, "Ah. David Attenborough. A pleasant man. His documentaries, I have found, can be quite captivating. And informing. Anyways, let us return to the pressing matter at hand."
Cassandra sniffs, "Yeah, yeah. So, it's Adam. Here are some pics of the Elbit facility. It's not the best, sorry. I saw him walk into the place like it was no biggie! I would've stayed, but the muddy ground felt like it was shifting underneath me feet. I got lucky that I wasn't spotted, yeah?"
Salim squints at Cassandra's phone and confirms, "Yes, that is indeed the Elbit facility." The Assamite sounds a little distraught.
Cassandra tucks some of her hair behind her ear and asks, "What now? You don't really look that angry."
Salim sighs, "I am not surprised. But what infuriates me the most, Cassandra, is his connection to Elbit. It makes this even more sinister than I had originally thought."
He squares his jaw and proceeds, "This is damning evidence in and of itself. You have done well, Ghoul. You may leave, if you'd like."
Cassandra uncomfortable shifts around on her chair, "Well, yeah. About that...what are you going to do?"
Salim has an unreadable expression on his face when asking, "Are you familiar with the inscription atop the main entrance of the Old Bailey?"
Cass quotes it from memory, "'Defend the Children of the Poor & Punish the Wrongdoer.'"
"Yes. Especially that last part. The courts will not do their jobs in punishing such treacherous people like Adam- or whatever his name really is. The Blade, however, is not held back by the hypocrisy of such institutions who sit idly by while the peoples of the Middle East are slaughtered day and night. This is the only way to bring justice."
"Oh," Cassandra gulps and nods a little.
Salim leans closer and emphasizes, "We don't know what other crimes Adam is complicit in. Name a court of law that will prosecute him for those. None of us can. Our solution, I will concede, is far from ideal and makes people uncomfortable. But it is magnitudes better than allowing such evil to prevail. Adam must pay."
He growls slightly, "He must be Judged. The Blade will Judge him."
Cassandra presses her lips into a thin line and nods along, "S--sure. Err--"
"Something troubles you. Please, do not hesitate to tell me." Salim's dead eyes are very soft and gentle now.
Cassandra notes, "He didn't 'ave the look of someone walking into an Elbit facility with the intent to blow it sky high. His walk through the woods felt practiced and full of purpose, like he'd done it a million times before. And the way he was acting with the guard at the front- all friendly like and such."
The Assamite agrees, "Hmm. Definitely damning. You have done your part, Toreador. We will take it from here."
"Erm, I'd like to see it through to the end. How are going to find out who Adam REALLY is?"
"The Post Office."
Cassandra's face scrunches up in confusion, "Post Office? What do you mean?"
"I will explain when we see each other again. 22 Somerset Road. Don't be late." He rises up and strides out of the room.
Cassandra quickly follows after him, her feet feeling a tad wobbly. She looks down and sees that there's still bits of mud clinging onto the bottom of her boots. She scrapes her feet and walks on. Her heart's beating very fast again.
The Post Office in question is a fairly narrow structure. At this hour of the night, it looks particularly menacing. The lights within are dimmed and the other nearby buildings are either shuttered or boarded up. Only a few cars are parked along the side of the road.
Cassandra parks her Lexus and joins Salim. She wonders out loud, "What is this place? Why 'ere?"
Salim raps his knuckles on the plexiglass window near the door, "It's an actual post office, among other things."
A tall man in his indeterminate 40s with deathly pale skin, piercing amber eyes, and very short brown hair opens the door. He gives Cassandra a smirk and turns to Salim.
"Come on in," he says, his accent vaguely resembling that of a Scouser. His voice is surprisingly soft and quiet. The man's wearing a light-brown long-sleeved shirt which is tucked into his high-waisted black trousers.
Before Cassandra can get a word in, the tall guy turns to her and smiles in a slightly unnerving fashion, "Horace said you'd be coming. Cassandra, right? C'mon in."
Cass is dumbfounded, "Horace? Horace Grimley? You--"
He lets out a slight laugh, "Oh, sorry. Where are my manners. Name's Nigel. Malkavian by Blood. Of the 9th Generation. Approximately...110-years-old, give or take a decade or 2." He extends his cold hand for a shake.
She shakes it and feels a tad unnerved by his preternatural grip, "You...spoke to Horace? He's a good friend of mine."
Nigel nods, "Yes, the Fledgling and I speak regularly through the Malkavian Madness Network. He said that you already know what that is. Anyways, Salim, mate. How are things faring, eh?"
Salim plainly states, "We need your help. And it is the kind of help that you specialize in providing, my friend. This matter is most urgent."
The Malkavian smiles knowingly at Salim, "So I've heard."
He then asks, "Either of you got a light for me bifter?" He holds a cigarette in between his index and middle fingers.
Both Salim and Cassandra shake their heads.
Nigel shrugs and pushes his glasses up his nose, "Ah, no worries, lad and lass. Let's take this to the back, eh? The bizzies are about the place, and I don't want to risk drawing any more attention to us than we already 'ave."
They make their way into a cramped room with a long table and several chairs around it. A computer is nestled on the far end of the table. A few large cabinets line the walls.
Nigel sits in front of the computer and cracks his knuckles, "So, what's the happenings, eh?"
Salim explains that he requires some help in uncovering Adam's true identity. Nigel keenly takes it all on, having this unnatural shine in his dead eyes. He keeps muttering about how this is going to be "fun."
Cassandra skeptically asks, "Can you actually find out who this bugger really, TRULY is?"
The Malk snickers, "'Course I can! But I'll need time. Lots of it. But not lots-lots. Hacked into some top-secret, clandestine government databases after I figured out the passwords in me day-sleep. Once I find something on this 'Adam' fellow, I'll let you 2 know. So, you both can wait around here in the meantime, eh?"
A few hours later...
Nigel is shocked by what he's managed to uncover, "Well, isn't he a right scally? Salim, you seeing the same thing that I'm seeing, mate?"
Salim's expression hardens as his eyes go over the information displayed on the computer screen, "Yes, I see it all. So, that's his real name, then? Tch."
Cassandra reads it out loud, "Avishai Lieberman. Israeli intelligence officer. Cor blimey!"
Nigel scrolls down a bit and points at the screen, "His dad is with the Shin Bet and his sister is a military lawyer of some kind. Wow, you've got yourselves a proper infiltrator in your midst, eh?"
The picture on Avishai's file exactly matches that of Adam's.
Salim balls his hand into a fist, "Yes. And he will pay for his crimes against our people. Thank you, Seer. You have done us a great service, and we do not easily forget those who aid us."
Nigel's amber eyes twinkle, "Oh, it's me pleasure. And lemme guess: Adam/Avishai won't be going to the ozzy after you lot are done with him?"
The Assassin simply pats the other man's shoulder and departs from the cramped room. He beckons Cassandra to come with him. She waves an awkward goodbye and follows after Salim.
As they exit the post office, she remarks, "Cor blimey! I never would've guessed that he was Israeli intelligence! Shit!"
Salim has a slightly pained look on his face, "Indeed. And that only makes all of this even more insidious than it already is. We will deal with this swiftly and quietly. Do you know what the worst part of all of this is?"
"No."
The Assamite lowers his head pensively, "I helped him set up a few fundraisers for people back in Palestine. He told me that he wanted to do some good, help the people under occupation, send them some money for food, medicine, shelter, daily expenses, and so on."
"That's messed up. What do you think were his real intentions?"
Salim grimly states, "To annihilate us. I--I watched on as he accumulated the personal information of people back home. He told me that this was a way of doing good for them. And in my naivety, I believed him! Tcah! I am such a fool! How could I not have seen the treachery right in front of us?!"
Cassandra places her hand on his tensed shoulder and says, "I'm sorry to hear that- it sounds awful, yeah. But I still need some explaining on what EXACTLY he was doing."
Salim forces a deep breath and says, "It was benign and altruistic of him- and we all certainly cheered him on. He'd put well-intentioned people in touch with those in the Occupied Territories who were in desperate need of basic necessities. It's dire and the boots of the Jews on our necks don't make things easier."
"So, he's...got a lot of personal info that'd make it easier for Israel to...disappear people? Or worse?"
Salim gives her a grave nod, "Yes. You've said it clearly, Toreador. And I helped him. I helped him get this information, verify it, and I even organized a few fundraising drives. I even introduced him to people who'd be willing to help him out. All this time, I was signing death warrants of my own people..." He trails off and sighs heavily.
Cassandra pats his arm, "It's alright. We got him pegged now. He doesn't know that we--you're onto him."
Nigel stares at the 2 of them through the grimy window. Stacks and stacks of boxes and uncollected mail are piled high near his feet. A faint smile creeps onto his face.
Salim politely waves back, "He's a strange one, that Nigel. But he has been helpful to us...and to our cause. I will have to tell the relevant people about all of this."
He fixes Cass with a significant look and remarks, "Now, you are free to leave. Consider us even, hmm? And give your Domitor my best regards. You have done your part. Now, stand back and let us do ours. I would not recommend being around for what happens next."
Cassandra nods a bit too vigorously and says, "Yeah! But I--I understand why you're doing it. I get it."
Salim notes, "Word is travelling fast of a Toreador Ghoul who destroyed a Brujah Wight. You are developing quite a reputation among our kind."
She nervously laughs and says, "Is that so? I--I only did it because there was no other choice. Otherwise, I'd be dead."
"You needn't justify your actions to me. Your survival is justification enough. We all have to do what we must in order to survive, yes?"
"Yeah."
They walk down the footpath before parting ways with a firm handshake and warm smile. Salim's smile doesn't quite reach his eyes, though. He quickly turns around and disappears into the dark night.
Cass hops into her Lexus, starts it up, and peels off. She speeds down the road. Her phone rings and she answers it.
Amy's voice comes through, "Hey, babe! Still in Birmingham?"
Cassandra pulls over to the side and replies, "Yeah, yeah. Just 'bout to leave, actually. I'm checking out and coming back to Gloughchester."
"Oooh. I can't wait! What kind of souvenirs you getting me, by the way?"
"You didn't exactly ask for much and...this wasn't really a trip for pleasure, to be honest."
"Hmm. Just get your pretty self back here, yeah?" There's a sultriness in Amy's tone that's quite hard to miss.
Cassandra cheekily grins, "Oh, I will. Bye!"
"Mwah! Bye!"
Cassandra begins driving back to the hotel. She packs her things away and prepares to check herself out. After she exits her room, she takes the elevator down and goes to the front desk. She places her palms on the counter and smiles at the woman sitting behind it.
"Hiya, I'm checking out now. Cassandra."
The woman nods and types a few things into her computer. Even now, tons of people walk to and fro. Cassandra glances at the clock nearby and notes that it's almost 11 PM. It's gonna be a long drive back home.
She waits for the well-dressed woman to finish up with whatever she's doing and finalize her check-out. The woman then asks, "And how was your stay, Ms. Cassandra?"
Cass shrugs a shoulder, "It was fine, yeah."
"Just fine?"
"Ehh. It was more of a work thing more than a trip for pleasure," Cassandra says while making a few vague hand gestures.
Her eyes drift over to a stack of flyers next to the computer. She notices something that's particularly eye-catching: it's some kind of recruiting ad for Elbit Systems. A young, racially ambiguous man is smiling brightly as he stands behind a vast megastructure not too dissimilar to the one Avishai walked into just a few hours ago.
Cass's face scrunches up as she gingerly picks up the flyer, "How did I not notice this before? What's this?"
The other woman shrugs, "Came in a day back. Between you and me, love, unemployment in this city has skyrocketed. This Elbit lot, however, seem to be hiring. Maybe I can tell me brother to get a job there. He's been having a right tough time of it ever since he graduated uni. And me couch is sinking in because he's sleeping in it all day. Tch." She rolls her eyes and groans.
Cassandra winces and shakily says, "Don't. They--they're a shady lot."
"Oh?"
Cassandra vigorously nods, uneasily smiles, turns on her heel, and quickly strides towards the entrance of the hotel. After her stuff is loaded in the dickey (trunk) of her car, she pulls off and makes the long drive home.
She stops by to grab a shawarma. She sees another stack of those damned Elbit flyers sitting next to the register. Cassandra looks away and orders her food. She pays in cash and finds a table for herself.
Even at this hour of the dark night, the place is full. Smoky and meaty scents waft about the area. Everyone is speaking in a different language or dialect. There's a thick slab of meat on a hot spinner thing being rotated by 1 of the workers behind the counter.
While eating, Cassandra can't help but think of Avishai's inevitable fate. It has been sealed. Her eyes linger on the way that meat is being heated up and spun around and around. She feels her stomach churn a little and she forces herself to stop thinking of such things.
She chews and swallows the last bit of food before leaving the restaurant. She wipes her hands and discards the tissue papers in the nearly overflowing trash bin nearby. A few people stand around and smoke, chatting amiably amongst themselves.
Cass greets them with a tight smile and hops back into her Lexus. She blows a raspberry, her cheeks puffing out. She pulls off and drives down the highway. She elects to drive a little slower than she normally would.
While nearing the city's outer limits, she squints and sees a billboard being erected. A bright white light shines down upon the workers who are currently busy screwing the sign in place.
A look of disgust overtakes Cassandra's face when she reads the words: "Elbit Systems- Face the future with empowered confidence." And right underneath it is an image of a diverse group of smiling people in suits and coveralls looking at a futuristic-looking megastructure.
She drives off as quickly as she can.
The unemployment is hardly an issue confined to the Domain of Birmingham. It's pretty widespread throughout the UK as a whole. And all the austerity, cuts, and policies implemented by the ruling parties aren't helping matters at all.
That, in turn, permits predatory firms like Elbit to swoop in and stick its talons into desperate communities. Neoliberalism in practice, y'all.
Back in Gregory's Haven...
The phone of Cassandra's Domitor rings. Alistair is present with him. Greg holds up his cold finger and answers the phone with that ever-so-flat tone of his.
"Hmm? I see. OK, very well. Yes, we'll talk more when you return. Mm-hmm. You, too. Goodbye, Cassandra. Yes, I'm fine, thank you. That's alright. Hm. Bye."
Alistair has 1 leg folded over the other while seated on an ornate armchair. He smiles a little, "Still sending her out and about, eh, old boy?"
The other Toreador merely nods his head.
Alistair picks up from where he left off, "Like I was reminding you: your halcyon nights are behind you, old boy. However, in your relatively short Unlife of trafficking art, you have managed to build something for yourself. Something of a...name, perhaps? A reputation?"
He takes a sip of the blood from a wine glass before going on, "A legacy, if you will?"
Gregory sighs a little, "I doubt it goes that far, Alistair. I--I only went into this line of work because I couldn't keep doing the...other thing- which I actually developed a liking for, mind you- forever. My Sire pointedly reminded me of this inconvenient little fact. And he..." He stops and glances away for a moment before fixing Alistair with a significant look.
The former doctor narrows his eyes out of concern, "Something the matter?"
Gregory waves his hand dismissively, "No, no. I thought I--I saw something in the corner of my eye, but it must've been nothing. Sorry, I--where was I? Oh, right. My Sire told me that I had a natural talent for trading in art and that I could make a somewhat decent Unliving out of...doing this sort of thing."
"Was he right?"
Gregory sighs heavily, "Even after all these decades, I'm not so sure."
Alistair leans forward and inquires, "Do you miss your old job? Do you still have a fondness for that sort of thing? Do you even remember how to do it?"
Gregory flatly answers, "Some things, you never forget. Like riding a bicycle, they say."
The other Toreador chuckles softly and says, "I know you don't exactly like talking about it. For what it's worth, I do miss the operating theaters, but stepping down was in everybody's best interests. I had become far too Obsessed, and I certainly didn't want--want--"
He chokes up a little and clears his throat, "My apologies. I didn't want it to towards an unhealthy direction. It takes a Toreador to understand the struggles of another Toreador, doesn't it, old boy?"
"I suppose it does. Alistair, if you don't mind indulging me for a moment..."
Alistair adjusts his silver cufflinks and gestures with his free hand, "Go on, old boy. Anything. Anything at all. Name it."
"Do you...see things- unusual things- in your day-sleep?"
"Like dreams?"
"No."
"Hallucinations?"
"Y--yes. In a manner of speaking."
"Hmm. Well, old boy. I'd say that everyone of us Kindred sees strange things in their day-sleep. Why, are YOU seeing something peculiar?" Alistair leans forward a bit, his expression growing a tad concerned.
A look of discomfort washes over Gregory's features as he fiddles with his thumbs, "Well, I--it's hard to describe."
Alistair looks at his silver watch and notes, "Well, I don't really have anywhere important to be tonight. There's a friendly game of bridge scheduled- courtesy of the Gloughchester Bridge Party- but my presence isn't strictly mandatory. They're a very understanding lot."
"Hmm. Are they...cross with my decision to suddenly drop out of their Coterie by withdrawing my application?"
Alistair smiles wryly, "It was quite unorthodox- abrupt, even- but I put in a good word on your behalf, old boy. You have nothing to worry about. Your decisions for withdrawing- sudden as they may be- are yours and yours alone. You are free to do as you will. As we all are, eh?"
"Hm. Thank you, Alistair. You've been a decent enough chap throughout it all."
Alistair chuckles softly, "And thank YOU for much of the same, really. So, what exactly are you seeing during the day? Or I suppose it's more accurate to ask...WHO exactly are you seeing? It's not just some fleeting image, is it?"
Gregory shakily responds, "It's hard to describe. But--but when I see it, my entire body helplessly freezes. I feel like I can't move, can't speak, can't think. I--I can't even blink or close my eyes."
"Good heavens! Mind if I ask what 'it' is?"
Gregory's eyes suddenly flit over to a darkened corner of his Haven. He sees a faint silhouette standing there, looking right at him. The 5 eyes on the figure have a menacing glow. He gulps, his lips quivering. He can feel his dead heart palpitating.
Alistair follows Greg's gaze and looks over at that corner. He sees nothing, no one, nobody at all.
He wonders out loud, "What's over there? Who--who are you staring at?"
Gregory blinks rapidly before facing his friend, "Wh--wha-what?"
"You zoned out on me, old boy. It happens a lot to us Aesthetes, eh? Be that as it may, what exactly are you seeing?"
Gregory's mouth hangs open a bit, and he stammers, "I--I can't exactly--maybe this was a mistake. Perhaps it--it shall fade away with the passage of time. I shan't keep you here any longer. Thank you for listening to my concerns."
Alistair's eyebrows shoot up, but he doesn't prod any further. He nods in acknowledgement, "Think nothing of it, Gregory." He stands up, pats his mate on the shoulder, and takes his leave. He exits through the main entrance of the Haven, leaving Gregory all alone.
And a tad afraid.
Hours later...
Gregory returns from a walk around the property. While walking through the woods, he swore that he heard twigs snapping in the distance. He kept walking, though, thinking that it must be some forest critters scampering about or what have you.
Cassandra is nearing the city limits for Gloughchester. Back to familiar ground for her. At last. She passes by a group of people who are walking on the sidewalk. They're dressed in bulky parkas, boots, and beanies. A few of them wear sunglasses despite it being nighttime.
Vampires? Eclectic types? Eccentric types?
All of the above, maybe?
Nevertheless, Cassandra pulls over and dials Amy's number.
Amy politely excuses herself and finds a better spot to take this (very) important call. There are numerous guests in her house, and her spouse is busy running the show and entertaining the guests.
Amy bites her lower lip and keeps her voice low, "Cass..."
"Hiya! I'm back! What's all that commotion in the background?"
Amy sighs and casts a few glances over her shoulder, "We're entertaining guests. Like always, it's mostly her posh friends from the bank she works at. Who knew that Barclays investment bankers could be such bellends, eh?"
Cassandra sympathetically winces, "Wow, you sound proper riled up. What's gotten into you?"
Amy sighs and looks over her shoulder once more. She fiddles with the ring on her finger and squeezes past a few more of her guests before saying, "You know how I am when she invites all of her fancy mates to our house, right? And that's not the only thing. We had a bit of a row. Again."
Cass ventures a guess, "Money problems. Again, yeah?"
Amy's chuckle is mirthless, "Mm-hmm. It got so...heated that she blurted out how little I make in comparison to her and how I ought to pull up my socks, find a better job, and all that. She--she didn't necessarily mean it, but...she didn't exactly take it back, either."
"Cor blimey. Listen, you want to...maybe...err...come over and spend the--"
"No, Cassandra. She's already on-edge and I have a feeling that she suspects something is...amiss. I'll come over when I'm ready. I--I--I could use a bit of a...release."
Cassandra bites her lower lip and smirks, "So could I. How's work? Walls at the school still crumbling?"
Amy grunts feebly, "Yeah. I'm getting quite annoyed with how nobody is interested in fixing things, actually. And I'm far from the only one, y'know?"
"Yeah."
Amy glances over her shoulder once more and says, "It pains me to constantly hear the pupils worrying about whether they're going to get flattened by a falling ceiling or something. And then there's the usual crowd who just don't give a rat's arse. Or maybe they really DON'T care."
"I care, Amy."
Amy shakes her head and lets out a small chuckle, "I know you do, babe. Do you...recall when we first met at that pub?"
"How could I forget? We bumped into each other on the way to the ladies' room and--and hit it off. 1 thing led to another and...it came as a shocker when you told me you were married! Haha! But after that, we..."
Amy smiles and sighs, "You don't have to remind me. We kept shagging. Everywhere and anywhere we could. It was so naughty and thrilling. It still is, is--isn't it?"
Cassandra takes a good few moments to respond, "She always puts you down because you don't make as much as her, Amy. I won't ever judge you in the way she does. I like you, yeah? I--I really do."
Amy swallows the lump forming in her throat, "I know, Cassandra. Listen, I--I have to go now. We really ought to see other...naked. And soon, yeah? Any more out-of-town trips for you?"
Cassandra hesitates before replying, "M--maybe. But I'll try to make some free time in between. Just us, yeah? You and me. Me and you, eh?"
Amy's voice is low and husky, "I would like that very much. I--I have to go now. I can feel her eyes burrowing into the back of my head. Talk to you later, babe. Bye."
Cassandra makes a kissy sound, "Mwah! Bye!"
Amy hangs up and slips her phone back into the pocket of her trousers. She pats herself down, gathers her composure, raises her chin, and strides back inside the house.
Amy's spouse titters and sends someone off before focusing her full attention on her partner. She has an arched eyebrow, and her expression is mildly disapproving.
Amy glares at her and musters up a tiny smile while making small talk with a few of her wife's friends.
Amy's spouse is some kind of portfolio manager for Barclays. Lots of £ compared to Amy's pitiful salary as a school admin- this has always been a cause of friction between the 2 of them.
And it's no secret that Amy's feels a tad insecure about how little she makes in comparison to her partner. It's frequently brought up in the loud arguments of the couple. Amy is constantly reminded of this by her wife.
Anyhoo...
Cassandra is back in the comfy and familiar coziness of her cottage. She hastily unpacks, freshens up, and plops herself down on her comfortable bed for a quick breather.
Gregory raps his cold knuckles against the door of his Ghoul. Cassandra rolls over and grumbles a little.
"It's open!"
He steps in and calls out, "Are you...feeling alright, Cassandra?"
Cassandra rubs her face, sits up, and watches as he takes a chair near the entrance of the bedroom and places it beside the bed. He sits down and regards her with a rather unreadable expression.
She sighs, "Yeah, why? Are you faring well?"
"Adequately. So, how was it? Did you assist the Assamites in their...business?"
Cassandra glances away and mumbles, "I did. Yeah. This one's a--a right thriller, yeah. Rooted out an infiltrator and all that. It'll take me a good long while to properly process the whole thing, though. But I reckon that he probably had it coming."
Gregory joins his hands together and notes to himself, "So, I am even with the Banu Haqim Clan. Good."
Cass glares at him, "Who's next, anyway? Daughters of Cacophony, right? Oh, wait, no...Children of Osiris, yeah? Sorry, I'm a bit tired."
Gregory corrects her, "No. The Baali. He has just arrived a few hours back, actually. This time, he owes me a favor. I--I suppose it's fortunate that I have a Ghoul who is willing to assist me in these sorts of tasks."
Cassandra heaves a long sigh and pinches the bridge of her nose, "Mm-hmm. So, tell me more about this Baali, then?"
"Not until you tell me about your Birmingham trip. And please, Cassandra, spare no detail."
Cass trills her lips and begins recounting everything from the tippy top. Greg keenly listens; he occasionally zones out and stares at the wall.
The next day...
A light rain drizzle pelts the Elbit Systems facility in Birmingham. Right in front of it, something akin to a kneeling figure can be seen. The Gen4 Security personnel were called in to have a closer look at it- they're the ones providing primary security for the place.
There are 2 dark vans with tinted windows parked near the front gate of the facility. The operatives approach with their bullpup weapons shouldered. The kneeling figure appears to have their arms stretched out to either side of their body.
Something appearing to be rebar sticks out of their chest and palms. The operatives' boots sink into the mud as they carefully approach the body. They have their finger on the triggers.
"What the fuck is this?" 1 of them harshly asks.
Avishai's body is deathly pale. He has been impaled with rebar and completely exsanguinated. His head is snapped back, and his mouth hangs open. His face is frozen into a permanent rictus of shocking pain and horror.
The other operative gasps and warns, "Lock the area down! Immediately! Code Red! Code Red! Get a fucking clean-up crew out here! NOW!"
"Potential hostiles in vicinity! Ready your weapons! Fan out and--and find who did this! Go! Go!"
The operatives assume defensive positions around the body of that fascist rat bastard. The rebar has been driven into the hard, solid ground. An operator takes a cautious step closer and asks how such a feat of strength is even possible.
Their question is soon answered when a tall man approaches the body. He has fair skin, is well into his 60s, and has short and somewhat curly gray hair. He speaks with a firm and authoritative tone when commanding the Gen4 personnel to leave this area at once.
"We will be taking control of this scene at once. Your services are no longer required. Say nothing of what you saw here today. Nothing."
He paces around the dead body and ducks down to inspect the wounds. He hums, nods, and glances over his shoulder, "This is the work of blank bodies. Let me guess: the surveillance footage is...missing?"
The head operative gulps, "There--there's nothing on it, s--sir. It all looks fine, then...out of nowhere, his body just suddenly appeared on the grounds like this! We're doing everything we can to--"
The tall man holds up his finger, revealing a few burns and scars on his hand, "I know your procedures and protocols all too well. But your efforts are wasted here. They are long gone, these...savage creatures. This was a message that they intended to send. They don't want us here."
The operative wonders, "And who exactly is 'we', sir?"
"That, my boy, is classified. Far beyond what a lowly Gen4 operative like yourself would be privy to."
The operative nods and turns away.
The man paces a tight circle around the body, stroking his shaved chin and mumbling to himself. He shakes his head and mutters, "We certainly have our work cut out for us, don't we?"
He heads deeper into the Elbit facility and takes a very important phone call from someone high up in his particular Org. He straightens his posture and licks his thin lips when the voice on the other line asks him about the Birmingham situation.
A woman's stern and somewhat metallic voice demands, "Report, Captain Meadows?"
"Situation is under control, ma'am. Blank bodies left us a little present like a cat leaving a dead and bloodied rat at the doorstep."
"You've lost your only way into the inner circle of the vampiric threat. Was it wise bringing somebody from Israeli intelligence into this? He was, in all likelihood, compromised. It's no wonder that he was dealt with in such a...heinous manner."
Captain Mark Meadows nods solemnly, "Yes, ma'am. That would appear to be the case. What are your instructions, ma'am?"
"Operation Brightburn must proceed at all costs- it is primarily your mission, after all, Captain Meadows. Don't fail us. Branch 16 is counting on you. We are counting on you. Do not fail us. Neutralize the blank body threat by any means necessary. If you have need for more resources, you need only ask."
"Yes, ma'am. As a matter of fact, I think that our presence here in Birmingham has been compromised. I'm not quite ready to risk an all-out war with these creatures."
"What do you intend to do, then? Hmm?" The impatience in her voice grows.
He replies, "I am requesting permission to set up shop in the city of Gloughchester, ma'am. The blank bodies over there have been getting rather sloppy in hiding themselves. And my...source is never wrong about such things."
"What of Birmingham? Is it a lost cause, then?"
"No, ma'am. Not--not necessarily. We will continue to monitor the blank bodies in Birmingham, but I fear that we shall get nowhere if we keep pushing in that direction. Without a man on the inside, we are essentially flying blind."
The lady can be heard shuffling a few papers on her desk and typing on her mechanical keyboard.
She hums, "Permission granted. As a matter of fact...we already have a building that shall serve our purposes well. A very fitting location, indeed. I will send you the address and necessary passcodes as soon as I can."
Even though no one can see him in this dimly lit room, Captain Mark bows his head a little, "That would be most helpful, ma'am. Can we continue to count on your support in other matters, as well? My...contact in Gloughchester still remains aloof about how he is able to acquire such vast information on the blank body threat."
She dryly intones, "Your secretive contact is of no concern to us. The results that he has delivered, on the other hand, are what really matter. Keep your pet informant happy and fed, Captain Meadows. Given the nature of our work, we can't afford to be picky."
Captain Mark firmly nods, "Yes, ma'am. We--we certainly cannot. And what of the...others who we routinely work with? Far be it from me to overstep clearly defined boundaries, ma'am, but--but I can't help but wonder..."
"Your skepticism regarding their involvement is well-founded, Captain Meadows. And it is hardly a secret amongst Branch 16's top brass. Nevertheless, they are an asset that we must make the most of in our operations against the blank bodies."
Captain Mark mumbles, "The lesser of 2 evils. I still do not trust them, ma'am. Nobody sh--should have such powers over--over reality itself!" He almost screams out that last part.
Her voice is cold and unfeeling as she flatly states, "The blank bodies are even worse, Captain Meadows. Focus on them. Just be glad that we're getting...outside help. Even if the ones offering a helping hand aren't exactly what we'd define as 'conventional'."
Captain Mark sighs and says, "Very well, ma'am. I shall keep you fully updated on the developing situation. Is--is the Gloughchester facility...full of them, ma'am?"
"Find out for yourself, Captain Meadows. Good day and godspeed."
Captain Mark lifts his chin and firmly declares, "God save the Queen!"
"God save the Queen," the woman on the other end plainly repeats before hanging up.
Captain Mark Meadows puts his phone away and takes a few moments to gather his thoughts. His eyes are heavy with weariness, yet there is also an unwavering sense of conviction and purpose that radiates from him.
He straightens his posture and walks off to attend to the matters that only a man of his stature and reputation can properly deal with.
The forces of the Second Inquisition are coming to Gloughchester.
(It wouldn't be the first time that the Blade of Haqim has Judged someone like this. Plenty of psycho imperialist soldiers returning from committing war crimes in the MENA region were also subjected to a similar fate. Until the mortal institutions get their shit together and act decisively, alternative forms of justice will continue to be pursued).
It is simply the way of things. And condemning the desperate deeds of people like Salim is a fool's errand.
Can things be better? Yes! Absolutely. But a conscious effort has to be made in order to move the needle and bring about said betterness. And that takes a great deal of time.
Act 4: Baali
"The Baali aren't a Clan, per se. But they're numerous enough to count as such (among other reasons). Anyways, their Bloodline is comprised of alleged...devil worshippers (or demon worshippers). I barely attend church these nights (can't even recall the last time I went). But none of the few Baali I've personally come across have erupted into flames. Perhaps there's another reason for their...infamy amongst our kind." -From the personal diaries of Gregory | Entry: On The Baali.
The sun is hidden behind clouds this morning, giving it a rather dim appearance. A few of its rays, however, manage to find their way through the clouds and gently caress the ground below.
Cassandra's alarm clock goes off, but she smacks it off the bedside table and lets out a long, long groan. It clatters on the floor and keeps on making an obnoxious ringing noise. She rolls over and covers her head with a pillow.
After Gregory spent most of last night giving her a long explanation on who this particular Baali was and why he owes the Toreador, she felt a headache coming on. And Greg really was vague about a great many details. He's always doing that- being vague and such.
The Ghoul, for her part, was simply too tired to press her Domitor for answers or clarifications. He simply said that more will be made known when the time's right. And so, she simply shrugged, gave him a thumbs-up, and trudged to her bed.
She was out within minutes. Her loud and grating snoring now fills the air as the alarm clock continues its incessant ringing. Cass wishes to sleep in for a bit, but she also has a nagging urge to wake up and do something.
She's a Ghoul, yes, and is beholden to the will of her Domitor.
Nevertheless, she snorts, wiggles on her bed, and rolls onto her stomach. The pillow does its best to muffle her loud snoring. The drool keeps on flowing, and her mouth hangs open. Cassandra's eyes are closed, and her brown hair is a bit disheveled.
She dreams of a great many things, which is the norm for her. It's the same old routine that has become somewhat comforting and familiar. Some are recollections from her past whilst others are just plain fanciful fluff.
Cassandra dreams of taking a selfie with her favorite singer- Soho Starlet, Nicola Green. Both are dressed in stylishly trendy clothes, and the latter has her arms wrapped around the former's shoulder. Cass is all grins and she squeals after taking the selfie.
In a separate dream, Cassandra is back in her comprehensive school days. She vividly recalls how her working-class voice and language of home were relentlessly belittled by the middle-class educators.
They did everything to get her to speak more "proper" but, despite their best efforts, her accent remains defiantly Northern. She has long since learned how to not let such snooty, elitist, posh wankers get under her skin.
Cass's dreams go hither and yon. She feels herself in a body that is both familiar and isn't quite hers at the same time. It is not her flesh and bones, yet she can control this other being's movements.
The sun is blazing, its piercing rays coming through the blinds. She stands in front of a small mirror and inspects her face. It's her face, alright. Hazel eyes, brunette hair, whatever else. She notices a tiny beauty spot near the corner of her eye. She rubs her finger over it and blinks a few times.
From whatever (and wherever) that was, she is yanked into a different dream. The landscape is completely dark, and a great number of strange, colorful, and glowing shapes are moving around.
By the time the Toreador Ghoul wakes up, it's nearly midday. She groggily opens her eyes, rolls over, and yawns loudly.
She stretches herself out, feeling some popping and cracking, and sits up in bed. She blinks a few times, rubs the crusty bits out of her eyes, and groans, "Cor blimey...what's--oh, that's the time. Hrrrrfhgh. Ah, well..." She trails off and readies herself for a bath.
While the water in the tub is filling up, she brushes her teeth and checks her phone. Just a few cheeky texts from Amy, but that's just about it. Cass replies with a stream of heart emojis and puts her Blackberry aside.
Since she's already naked, she steps into the bathtub and settles down in the warm, sudsy water. A sigh of contentment escapes her lips as she gently leans her head back.
Cass sings out a few lines (off-key) from some of her favorite Nicola Green songs. She's a bit rusty and can't recall the exact words at the moment, but that's no matter.
"LaLaLaLaLa, love is in the air...sweeping me through my hair. OooOoOh, I'll always love ya, babe...oh, baby..."
Once done with the bath, she steps out of the tub and wraps herself in a towel. She glances at the mirror and runs a hand through her hair, "Ah, yeah...that was proper refreshing!"
Tonight is when the real work begins. So, Cassandra throws on a simple Adidas tracksuit that she got back in the year 2000 for only a few quid; she's done her best to keep it pristine. White stripes run down the sides of the blue tracksuit.
She slips into a pair of pink trainers, ties the laces, and puffs her cheeks. After grabbing her cell phone, she leaves her cottage and makes her way outside. A few orange leaves have already fallen, and they crunch under her soles.
Cassandra inhales a lungful of the crisp autumn air and lets it all out. She heads towards a small bench a few paces away from the cottage and plops down.
The Ghoul fiddles around with her phone while deciding whether to take breakfast, wait till brunchtime, or just skip the meal entirely. She goes for a short walk, pops by the local pound shop, but doesn't end up buying anything.
The rest of her afternoon is spent lazing around in her cottage, reading a book. This is quite a heavy read: "The God Delusion" by Richard Dawkins.
Cassandra identifies as an atheist, but she is NOT an obnoxious "Reddit Atheist" who trashes religion (and people of faith) just for some superior gotcha points and hollow ego-stroking. To her credit, she doesn't even own a fedora!
She has a modicum of respect for the man and even looks up to him a bit. Keep in mind that this was long before Richard expressed all sortsa nasty, yikes views like harboring eugenicist views, supporting a genocide, being a massive transphobic twat, or most pathetically...going all goo-goo-gaga over his AI girlfriend.
Anyways, Cassandra isn't necessarily the type of lass to blame all of the world's ills on religion (organized or otherwise). She recognizes that the current socio-economic system is rotting on its feet and dragging not just the UK but the entirety of the world down into the abyss.
She can't help but grimace whenever some of her fellow atheists (online or offline) point their fingers at religion, especially when it comes to matters of the Middle East. They completely ignore imperialism, colonialism, capitalism, and a myriad of other factors that are directly responsible for the current (miserable) state of the region.
Cass has gotten into a few arguments with them- mainly on Facebook- and it always devolves into an angry back-and-forth before 1 of them ends up blocking the other.
Cassandra sets the book aside and yawns. She picks up some fiction, turns to a random page, and starts reading. Ever since she was a wean, she's always been a curious and eager reader- everything from her father's leftie newspapers to books not quite meant for her age to random Internet articles.
When Wikipedia first became a thing, she spent a whole week proper going through and absorbing every last word that the then-fledgling site had to offer.
In time, Cassandra elects to 'ave a quick nap. Sunrise isn't that far off. She tosses and turns a bit on her bed, trying her damnedest to get comfy. A light rain patters on her window, and she soon drifts off into a peaceful snooze.
Cars go to and fro. The streets of this Domain are slick with rainwater and puddles. It's a gray, drizzly day- typical British default weather. And the gloominess that hangs over the city does a good job at reflecting the overall mood.
A slight mist pervades the area, obscuring some of the buildings. This city is about to undergo...a shaking up in the next few days (and nights).
For now, it remains decidedly unstirred.
The sun begins to make its retreat from the horizon, and the shadows lengthen. The Kindred in this part of the globe begin to arise. Their senses sharpen, and the Beast within them growls for a liquid red treat.
Gregory's eyes pop open, but his body remains frozen. His breath hitches, and his eyes dart back and forth. With great effort, he turns his head and sees...it.
The Aapilu just stands there, menacingly cloaked in the darkness. The creature of the Blood twirls its 6 fingers and glares right at Gregory. Its gray and slimy skin appears to be slick and moist.
Gregory can't move a single muscle. He helplessly watches as the Aapilu runs its fingers across the wall. It stays where it is and merely stares at him with its 5 eyes.
He desperately tries to free himself from this paralysis, but the Aapilu's very presence has rendered him entirely immobile. Gregory grimaces and tries to make a sound, but no sound escapes his dry lips.
The Aapilu cocks its head to the side and makes a clicking sound. Gregory can do nothing as he watches the creature stand in place and taunt him. The Beast within him is restless, but its roar is suppressed by the Aapilu's powerful influence.
Something resembling a tail abruptly flicks and smacks the wall behind it. Gregory tries his damnedest to look away, but the Aapilu's gaze is locked with his. His Blood runs cold and his body trembles.
Gregory squints and tries to get a better look at what the creature is doing, but it's quite hard for him to tell. Even blinking his eyes is proving to be Herculean task.
Another clicking noise comes from the Aapilu. Gregory's dead heart thumps wildly as his fear grows. The Aapilu doesn't move an inch. It crouches down and growls softly. Its 6 fingers twitch and clench into fists.
Gregory gulps and tries once more to move, but his efforts are met with no success. And just as suddenly as it had appeared, the Aapilu vanishes into thin air. Poof!
The body of Cassandra's Domitor becomes limp. Gregory lets out a painful wheeze and pulls himself out of bed. His face is a bit pale, and his forehead is covered in a layer of cold and somewhat bloody sweat.
He forcefully exhales and hobbles over to the bathroom. He switches the light on and winces when the bright and fluorescent light hits his face. Gregory turns the sink faucet on and splashes cold water on his face. He stares at his dull and baggy eyes in the mirror.
With his face still dripping wet, he dabs a fresh towel over it. The Toreador sighs, and the first thing that pops to his deeply troubled mind is how Cass is gonna deal with the Baali tonight.
This guy owes Greg a huge favor- it has something to do with the Aapilu that had just visited him. This particular Baali claims to have an understanding of these ancient beings and even offered to help "banish" the being who is currently tormenting Gregory.
The Toreador's expression is grim. He only hopes that the Demon Worshipper is true to his word and follows through on his side of the deal. Otherwise, it's going to be a massive problem.
Gregory walks back to his bed, plops down on its edge, and forces a deep, deep breath. He clasps his cold hands together, closes his eyes, and feebly mumbles.
Gregory is a sort of backslidden Anglican. He's been a C of E (Church of England) lad ever since birth. That being said, he does attend church whenever he feels like it- usually for Christmas or Easter services.
He sits in the back, stands when told, sings from the hymnbook, kneels on the cushions when told, folds his arms when the sermon begins, and generally goes through the motions. He even takes communion but eventually ends up spewing it out as scarlet vomit.
(Because if it ain't actual blood, the Beast declines it in the sharpest way possible.)
There are times when Gregory will have a little prayer or a hymn stuck in his head, but it doesn't happen that often. It's more of a Toreador thing than anything else.
Anyways, he doesn't discuss religion that much and kind of understands why his Ghoul isn't a believer.
He opens his eyes and rubs his palms over his face. His shower is fairly brief and mundane. The hot water flows down his naked body and soothes his taut muscles.
His stomach growls. His eternal Hunger is making its demands known. And, judging by the sounds outside, there are a few mortals out and about.
Like always, Gregory is sending his Ghoul on his behalf. So, he slips into a plain pair of trousers, puts a nice polo shirt on, combs his hair a little, applies some body lotion, and steps out of his bedroom.
He heads downstairs and takes a seat at the couch. He looks around his sleek and modern Haven, appreciating the interiors and the view outside.
It's shaping up to be a pretty decent evening, all things considered. The issue of the Aapilu still lingers on his mind, but Greg is hopeful that the Baali will be able to aid him in getting rid of this supernatural pest.
After about 10 minutes or so, Cassandra waves at her Domitor. She is dressed in a leather jacket with a t-shirt underneath (official Nicola Green merch that costs a pretty penny), denim jeans, and a pair of Doc Martens.
A red headband holds her brown hair in place. The Ghoul flashes a big grin and waves, "Hiya, Greg!"
The Domitor ushers her in and dryly replies, "Hello, Cassandra. How are you...feeling? All prepared for tonight's tasks?"
Cass nods and says, "Yeah! See, I even wore me official Nicola Green t-shirt!" Her grin widens when she tugs on it.
The words are a bit faded, but it's a glittery style that simply reads: "SOHO STARLET".
Gregory has no meaningful reaction in either direction. He simply walks back to the couch and sits down. Cassandra follows him, and she breaks the silence, "So, um...this Baali. If you owe him, then why am I being sent? Shouldn't I be tagging along with you?"
Gregory answers, "I'm not the biggest fan of rock music. I have no issues with those who take a liking to such music, but it is simply not to my taste. It--perhaps you'll like it?"
Cass shrugs, "I'm a Nicola Green fan. Always 'ave been and always will be. But, yeah, I suppose I fancy a bit of rock 'n' roll from time to time. What's his name, anyhow?"
"Sven. But he's painfully American."
"Oooh. Some friends from across the pond, eh?"
"Hm. Yes. He's planning on putting on some sort of a concert here in Gloughchester for the next few nights. I'm told that it has been advertised all over social media? Have you seen anything in the regards to it? Perhaps heard it from a friend?"
The Ghoul shakes her head, "Can't say I 'ave, no. You know, Greg, you should open a Facebook account, at least. You don't 'ave to put your picture or use your real name, yeah?"
"It's not for me, Cassandra. Anyways, Sven will be playing here in for the next few nights. He owes me and I expect him to keep up his end of the bargain. I'm sending you on my behalf to ensure that he doesn't forget. Rockstars like him are rather...forgetful, and they tend to change their minds."
Cassandra grimaces a bit, "You're not expecting me to do anything improper, yeah?"
Gregory sighs, "Of course not. Just give him a friendly reminder. Offer to help him get his concert set up. Make yourself useful, if you must. Promote him on your social media...pages or however you call them. Just make sure that he keeps his word to me. This--this is important to me. I need his help."
The Toreador doesn't wish to elaborate any further.
Cassandra, on the other hand, prods, "What exactly do you need him for?"
Gregory's lower lip quavers, "It's nothing for you to get bothered with, Cassandra. It's best if you just go and take care of business. What I require assistance with shall remain squarely between myself and this Baali rockstar. You needn't get involved."
The Artisan gives her a serious and stern look, and that's enough to silence the Ghoul.
Cassandra gulps and nods, "Uhm...fine. Yeah, fine. I--I understand. I got it. So, where's he gonna be tonight, then?"
Gregory produces a slip of paper, "Here's the venue he'll be performing in. There will also be some sort of a VIP party after his performance. I've managed to speak to his personal assistant and manager so that you'll have easy access. Just show the bouncers your name and that'll get you in."
Cassandra's eyes light up, "Oh. Wow. A proper backstage pass and all, eh? You--you think that you could do something like this for Nicola Green, hmm?"
Gregory's chuckle is faint and brief, "I shall see what can be done."
"Ah, right, then. I'll head off now, yeah? Anything else to add?"
Gregory thinks for a moment, "Hm. Be careful around him, Cassandra. Always be cautious. And please ensure that he remains true to his promise. This Demon Worshipper owes me, and he shan't leave the country until we are even. Got it?" There is a hint of desperation in the man's voice.
Cassandra picks up on it and does a 2-finger salute, "Got it, Greg! I'll remind this Sven fella what's what. And if he makes a bit of a fuss, then what?"
The Toreador sighs heavily, "It goes against what we agreed, but give me a call if he expresses recalcitrance. Keep it brief and I shall be there to put him back in line. But please don't resort to that unless absolutely necessary."
"You don't 'ave to tell me twice, haha! Want me to get you some kind of merch from this concert? A trinket, a knick-knack, some sort of memento? A signed--"
Gregory curtly responds, "No. Just ensure that Sven remembers his obligation to me. Nothing more, nothing less."
Cassandra smiles, "Yeah, OK. Got it. Err...bye, Greg!"
"Yes. Goodbye, Cassandra."
As she cheerily walks off, the Domitor mumbles to himself, "And come back safely. I need you just as--just as much as you need me."
Cassandra does her makeup in the Lexus. She applies some black eyeliner, a little blush, and a dash of purple eyeshadow. She's really leaning into a very "rock 'n' roll" aesthetic for tonight's concert.
She sprays some perfume onto her neck and wrists. She fluffs her hair up, starts the car, and begins her journey.
As she drives to the location, she listens to some Chase & Status on her phone. She sings along, tapping her fingers against the steering wheel and bobbing her head in sync with the fire beat.
At this wee hour of the evening, the city of Gloughchester is abuzz with activity. People go out and about, the streets are filled with traffic, and there are many cars parked along the roads. Bright neon lights flash from various establishments, and there is an energy to this metropolis that makes it truly 1-of-a-kind.
The drizzling intensifies. Cassandra has the wipers turned on. They swish and swoosh, clearing out the rainwater and allowing the Ghoul to see clearly. She hums to the beat of the music and taps her fingers.
Sven's concert shall be held at a large indoor area with full aircon, superior acoustics, and stuff. Cass has never been there, but she's heard quite a few tales about the establishment in question.
It's supposedly under the ownership of a Ventrue Ancilla, but she has never been able to independently verify such claims.
Cassandra's Lexus comes to a screeching halt in front of a huge line. Many fans have already arrived and are eagerly waiting for their favorite rockstar to grace them with his presence.
Despite the rainfall, the line seems to extend for a few meters or so. The fans have umbrellas and are huddled under tarps. Some have been here since morning, as evinced by the tents that they occasionally poke their heads out of.
Cassandra's heart beats wildly with excitement. She finds a parking spot, readies her umbrella, and gets out of her car. She locks it, puts her keychain into her pocket, and circles around the vehicle.
Her white umbrella is opened, and she makes her way to the back of the building.
Sven's personal assistant (and manager) tells the armed (!) guards to let her pass. The assistant is a svelte woman in her 30s. She wears a pinstripe skirt, has her graying hair tied in a bun, and is constantly on her tablet. A bulky touchscreen phone pokes out of her large purse.
She gives Cassandra a once-over before telling her to hurry up and get inside. She speaks with a decidedly plain American accent, probably generic Midwestern.
"You're late," she curtly states.
Cassandra nervously smiles and responds, "Sorry about that, yeah. I'm Cassandra, by the way. Greg's...err...y'know? Where's Sven at?"
"Carla. Sven's getting ready and he takes his sweet time. So, I was told to give you the VIP treatment, right?"
"Mm-hmm."
Carla sighs and pinches the bridge of her nose, "I'll get the bouncers to ensure that you have the necessary clearances...but just behave. People tend to go all wild and lose any sense of propriety around him."
Cassandra playfully bumps the other lady, "Ah, don't worry. I'm a Nicola Green fangirl. I've never heard of this Sven before."
Carla raises an eyebrow, "Hmm. Just behave yourself, OK? Not everybody gets the opportunity that you do. Where is Gregory, anyway?"
"Busy. He sent me in his stead."
"Hm. Interesting. I was really hoping to get his opinion on a piece of art that I've had my eye on. Never mind that, please, this way."
She looks flustered while leading the Ghoul through a brightly lit corridor. The floors are shiny, the walls are pristine, and the lighting is warm and welcoming. Personnel charged with organizing the concert hastily run back and forth.
There are posters and banners plastered all over the place. None of them have Sven's picture on it, but they do have timings, dates, and ticket prices.
(And they do be some pricey prices!)
Cassandra gawks at how much they cost, "Blimey! That much-- you lot are charging an arm and a leg, yeah?"
Carla's phone buzzes and she checks it. She ignores the Ghoul and hisses into the phone, "No, dumbass. Yes! That's what I fucking said last night! NO! Hmph, fine. Call me when you DO manage to get your head out of your ass and find the right one. Yeah, fuck you, too."
Cassandra walks on and looks concerned, "Everything alright? You--you need any help? Greg told me to offer up me helping hand in case there was anything."
"We're fine. I'm--I'm fine. We're almost there, now. Please, try not to screech when you see him. People tend to do that, and I get nasty headaches whenever that happens. I'm serious. Just stay quiet and--and act normal, OK? NORMAL."
The Toreador Ghoul shrugs, "Fine. I'll behave meself."
Carla trills her lips and picks up the brisk pace. Cassandra keeps up with her, and the pair soon arrives in a well-decorated room. Carla takes a deep breath and pushes the door open.
The room is carpeted, has seductive mood lighting, and a nice, long couch. On the wall are framed albums that have been personally autographed by the Baali himself. Oddly enough, his signature is a simple "K" in lieu of an actual name.
The only window in the room is covered with bead curtains. Makeup artists surround the man of the hour himself. Someone dabs his cold skin with a brush. Another makeup artist applies a good amount of concealer to cover up that deathly paleness characteristic of a Kindred.
Carla clears her throat, "Sven. I have someone here to meet you. The fact that she hasn't gone nuts is a good sign. This is Cassandra. Gregory's...assistant, I guess?"
She focuses on Cass and firmly asks, "Can I trust you enough to be left alone in his company? Are you gonna behave? No screaming? No flashing your boobs at him? No throwing your bra at him? No asking him to have your babies?"
Cassandra cringes and gives the other lass a look of incredulity, "I'm not about to go and do something like...THAT! Cor blimey! Yeah, you--you can trust me. I'm not going to cause any problems."
Carla's stare is penetrating, "Promise? I don't want to stay up for 12 hours dealing with another lawsuit."
Cassandra's face scrunches a little, "Lawsuit? Like--"
Carla holds up a finger and interjects, "Just don't do anything that we'll all regret, OK? I'll be out and about if you need me. Have fun, now. Hey, Sven--"
Sven speaks, his voice smooth and oddly charming, "Carla, I heard everything, honey. Get outta here. Make sure that those sound people do another mic check. We don't want a repeat of Mississippi, now, do we?"
Carla sighs, shakes her head, and grumbles, "Alright. We--we certainly don't."
Before striding away, she fixes Cass with another pointed stare and mouths, "Behave."
Cassandra folds her arms and leans against the wall. Her eyes are focused on the Baali, who is surrounded by a gaggle of makeup artists.
Sven can be heard asking for everyone's number, "Write it down on your way out. I got a bit of an afterparty...and you're all invited. Because I do love my groupies. And I love 'em very, very much."
He gives them a big wink and a smarmy smile. Some of the MUAs blush and giggle amongst themselves. Once done, they quickly pack up their equipment and leave the room.
Cassandra is left alone with the Unholy Kindred. Sven gets out of the styling chair with a practiced and fluid motion- it's like he's done this so many times already. He inspects himself in the mirror, points finger guns at his reflection, winks, and grins a little.
He looks over his shoulder and then turns around to face Greg's Ghoul.
Sven is a certified heartthrob in his early-30s. His face is clean-shaven, angular in all the right ways, chiseled, and handsome. His lips are plump and very kissable. He's dashing, well-built, and has a certain boyish charm to him. His chin-length hair is black and swept back.
His dimples make his smile look quite appealing.
The Baali spreads his arms to either side of his body and says, "Hello, hello, hello. Name's Sven. So, you're Gregory's Ghoul, right?"
"Yeah."
Sven side-eyes her, "This is usually the time when the ladies- and the gents- would start swooning over me." He is wearing a very tight shirt with the topmost buttons undone. His sleeves are rolled up, revealing muscular arms.
His slacks look quite new, and his boots are pristinely polished. A pair of expensive-looking aviator sunglasses loosely hang from his shirt.
Cassandra shifts her weight from foot to foot and changes the subject, "I'm here on behalf of Gregory. He wants to make sure that you don't forget your end of the bargain. You owe him. So, he sent me to ensure that you hold up your end of the deal, yeah?"
Sven shrugs a shoulder and smirks, "I'm a man of my word. Cassandra, right?"
"Mm-hmm."
Sven exhales and takes a few steps closer to her, "Well, you've got a VIP pass. Want me to uh...autograph that for you? Give it a decade or 2 and that shit will skyrocket. You can sell it and get yourself all the uh...uh...tea and crumpets in the world, hahahaha!"
"I'm fine, thanks. I'm just here to--"
The Baali tuts, "Yeah, yeah, OK. You said it once and I got it. Anyways, wanna join me at the afterparty? Everyone's invited. Why? Cuz I show everyone- guys and girls- a good time." A seductive tone comes into his voice. He's oozing charm and charisma from every single pore of his dead skin. 
Cassandra looks away, "Ah. Eh...no. Y--you're bi?"
"Sure am. Old...colleague of mine used to say that he loved apples and oranges and hated choosing between them. Just love 'em all, y'know what I mean? You dig?"
Cassandra politely declines his offer, "I'll 'ave to say no. But thanks for the--the invite, yeah? And the VIP thing, too. Do you need any help around here?"
"Do you have a degree in event management?"
Cass shakes her head, "No. Why?"
Sven jerks his chin to the closed door that Carla walked out of, "Carla does, but she's got her plate full. Since you're here and so eager to lend a helping hand, go on and find her- tell her I sent you. I'm sure that she has plenty of shit for you to do, Cassie. Can I call you that?"
Cassie shrugs, "Makes no difference to me."
Sven tries his luck again by rubbing his palms and coming a lot closer to her, "So, about that afterparty...I've been showing my groupies so many things over the...decades. Yeah, I'm pretty fuckin' old, but I still got it. And you don't look like you're too far behind me."
Cassandra smiles tightly and politely deflects his advances, "Like I said, no thanks. Err...you're not me type."
Sven's mouth turns downward, "Aww. Well, I won't push you any further. But...my offer still stands, Cassie. And if you ever feel lonely, just walk in on us going at it like fuckin' hyenas. We'll always be glad to include another babe in the mix of bodies rubbing up against bodies." He winks and flashes her a big smile.
Cassandra's eyebrows go up, "Wow. That's...something. Do you mind if I ask you a few questions?"
The Demon Worshipper points finger guns at her, "Shoot. Pow-pow! Gotcha! Haha! Too slow on the draw. What do you wanna know, hmm? I'm a completely open book!" He sits down on the couch and leans back, crossing his legs and letting an arm casually drape on top of the headrest. His other hand rests on his knee.
Cassandra sits next to him and begins, "How do you know Gregory?"
Sven chuckles, "Ah, we go way back. He had an eye for art and shit like that, and I needed a way to dodge the taxman...or taxwoman. I snagged a few snazzy pieces from him, and we've kept in touch ever since. He's the best art dealer I ever did fuckin' meet, haha!"
"You--you're dodging your taxes?"
"So, what if I am, huh? Already paid my fair share when I could still breathe and get a suntan. Hey, did you know that I there was a time when a former assistant of mine too busy handling other stuff. He was so busy and became the reason why a show of mine wasn't held on a riverboat casino."
Sven wildly gesticulates and goes on, "A freaking riverboat casino! Do you have any idea how awesome that is?"
Cassandra cringes a little, "It's still not right to dodge the taxes, though. I mean, they go for--for lots of good things, yeah? Schools, roads, hospitals, and all sorts of public works, innit? I know that things are a bit dodgy in America, but...y'know. It's still a bit wrong."
Sven clicks his tongue and dismissively waves his hand, "Yeah, whatever. Listen, lady, I didn't come to the land of...high tea, chavs, and offensive comedy so that I could pay some more fucking taxes. I came here to perform, and I need to keep as much of my cash as possible, alright?"
Cassandra sighs and pursues another avenue of conversation, "OK. Fine. So...why rock music? What makes that particular genre so...important to you? Is it special to you in some way?"
"What is this, an--an interview? Y'know, Rolling Stone is gonna do a profile on me sometime soon. I even got fuckin' Vanity Fair on my ass. And I'm in, like, half-a-dozen BuzzFeed articles." He is very confident in himself and his abilities.
"It's just curiosity, yeah. The only Americans I know are--are the ones I see on telly or social media; I don't know any in-person, y'know? So, I just wanted to learn more about you, where you come from, why you do what you do, and so on."
Sven rubs his palms together, "Well, rock 'n' roll is where I see the dollar signs at. It's that simple, really."
Cassandra further inquires, "The ticket prices are a bit...much. With the soaring prices in the UK, aren't you a bit worried about losing fans? Aren't they concerned about that?"
Sven callously shrugs, "Their loss, not mine. I'm successful in spite of them, NOT because of them. My shit has broad appeal, so me losing out on a few poor kids with crooked teeth, mental problems, and a shitty haircut is a non-issue."
Wow. That is downright shitty!
Cassandra winces slightly, "Is--is it a charity? For a good cause, yeah? Is that why the ticket prices are higher than usual? Me favorite singer- Nicola Green, Soho Starlet- always does these charity performances where she raises a lot of money for good causes like cancer research, STEM education, youth scholarships, LGBT rights, and all sorts of other things."
Sven rolls his eyes, "I'm sure that Nicola Green is very charitable. But I roll differently. Success has and will always be my ultimate goal. And if I were to grade myself, I'd say A-fucking-plus-plus with a little golden star for good measure. Unlike...others, I had to start down from the fucking gutter, Cassie. The gutter!"
The Baali gets up from the couch and begins pacing around the room, "You have no idea what these past decades have been like for me. You have no fucking clue, and I don't expect you to understand what it's like, either, OK? My former...bandmate reveled in his success...and all the pussies and dicks that came along with it."
He clenches his fists and resumes his rant, "But me? I was thrown aside like--like I was nothing. But I'm something now, baby!! I'm a hell lot more than something!" A fiery intensity burns in his dead eyes. He is clearly consumed by ambition and greed.
His eyes widen even further, and he takes a few deep breaths, "Don't get in my way, OK? You...you seem like a nice enough gal. Hell, look at you, you're practically dressed like a freaking rockstar!"
"Hmm. I--I reckon that I do look pretty rad tonight, yeah?"
Sven grins, "Rad to the max, baby! So, I'll let you slide...for now. Don't worry, once I'm done dazzling the crowd with my legendary awesomeness, I'll help your boss out with that little problem of his. I never go back on my word." That last part has some insincerity to it, and Cassandra can sense it.
Cassandra corrects him, "He's not me boss, he's me Domitor. There's a big difference, Sven."
Sven holds out his hands in a placating gesture, "Oh, yeah. Of--of course. Sorry. My bad."
"It's fine, it's fine. Is Carla your Ghoul?"
Sven's face scrunches in disgust, "Carla? That nag? No fucking way! I usually burn through assistants/managers faster than I burn through boyfriends and girlfriends. If I'm lucky, I date them, but...Carla's probably gonna see the pink slip before this year is over, haha!"
Cassandra shakes her head in disapproval, "Why do you treat them that way?"
"Because I can. Because it's a part and parcel of my whole persona. Do you know how many lovesick teenagers have posters of my immortal face on their bedroom walls, Cass? Can I call you Cass? Yeah, that's what I thought." He puffs out his chest in pride.
Cassandra lowers her gaze and silently wonders to herself, "What the 'ell did I get meself into now? Cor blimey, I'd take fighting another Wight over...whatever this is shaping up to be, yeah? Oh well, I did say that I was willing to help out Gregory with whatever he needs done. So, lucky me."
Sven snaps his fingers and gets the Ghoul's attention, "Yo! Missy miss! You with me or are you zoning out. Shit, we usually start popping pills only AFTER the concert is done. Well, except for me. I take mine straight from the veins, heh-heh."
The Toreador Ghoul heaves a heavy sigh and keeps listening to Sven's self-important bragging.
He proceeds, "You know, I once fed from a guy who was so high on ecstasy. Wowee! I saw shit that'd make a fucking Malkavian think twice, haha! And...and then I bit into a groupie who snorted up a few lines of cocaine which I myself had laid down. Boy, those were the nights, huh?"
Cassandra nervously shifts on her seat, "Uh-huh. You really like wild partying, eh?"
Sven continues to run his mouth, "I've been asked to guest-star in a few episodes of some popular reality and TV shows! I can't say which ones, though." He mimics zipping his mouth, locking it, and tossing the key away.
Cassandra rubs the base of her neck and queries, "How did you arrive here, anyway?"
The Baali boasts, "Private plane. Bought it from a Setite for a very reasonable price- 5.2 mil, paid all cash, no biggie."
Cassandra's gasps and thinks to herself, "Cor blimey! He's...posh. Ah, great. Now, I really need to find a way out of here...or hold me breath and put up with it until the bloody concert is over."
Sven does a horrible imitation of a British accent when asking, "A penny for your thoughts?"
Cassandra musters up a smile and replies, "It's nothing, really. What are your plans for after the concert? Will you be able to see Greg and help him out with--"
"Ah, ah, ah, ah, ah. I'll see your Domitor when I'm ready, whenever I feel like it. I might owe the guy, but that doesn't mean he dictates my itinerary. On these trips, I have a very meticulous schedule...and it mostly involves partying all night, hahaha!"
Cass shakes her head and rises to her feet, "Fine, then. If that's what you want, then--then fine. But you 'ave to help Greg, yeah?" She fixes him with a slightly stern stare.
Sven holds up his hands and smiles, "Sure, sure. Now, concert's scheduled to begin in...a few minutes. Or I might just let the sardines bake for a few more minutes. It's all a part of the Sven experience. The Svenxperience! It really rolls of the tongue, doesn't it?"
Cassandra shrugs and stifles a grimace, "I'm sure it does. I should find Carla and see if she could use a hand, eh?"
Sven places his hand on her shoulder and gives it a firm squeeze, "Before you go, holders of VIP passes- like yourself- are usually allowed to bring a plus-1 along. Free of charge and all that jazz, of course. Do you have anybody whom you'd like to invite to this once-in-a-lifetime experience?"
The only person who immediately comes to mind is Amy. She does fancy rock music, so maybe she'd like to tag along. But then again, she might be busy or...this whole concert may very well end up turning into a dreadful flop.
Cassandra gulps and stammers, "Err...there may be someone, yeah. Can I go outside and give her a quick call, see if she's interested in coming along?"
Sven smoothly says, "By all means. And if you find Carla, tell her to go back to the hotel and get my bathrobe. Tell her that it's the silky red one with the 'K' monogrammed on the chest, NOT the aqua-colored one given as a gift from the Sheikh. She'll know what I'm talking about, heh-heh."
Cassandra sucks some air through her teeth, "Alrighty then. I'll make sure to pass on the message. Any--anything else?"
Sven still has his mind on the bathrobe, "I want to change into something more comfortable when the afterparty starts. Hmm? What was that?"
She stifles a sigh and forces herself to be polite, "Will there be anything else before I leave, Sven?"
Sven shakes his head and says, "Nah, I'm good. Enjoy the concert, OK? Because I am going to blow your fucking minds away! Socks, too! You'll need a new pair by the time I'm done, hahaha!"
While leaving the room, Cass mutters to herself, "We'll see about that."
She keeps walking till she finds Carla near the main stage. She's loudly ordering the sound techs to do a mic check. Once everything is to her satisfaction, she turns around and sees Cassandra.
"Oh, it's you. And your clothes are still on. I'm surprised, honestly. What do want? VIP seating's--"
"Sven told me to give you a helping hand."
"He--he did? Oh, well...I see. How...thoughtful of him."
"So, what do you need?"
Carla licks her lips and mulls things over, "There's a coffeeshop a few miles away. Go there and grab me the tallest possible cup of caramel macchiato. Make sure that they use goat's milk instead of cow's milk, got it?"
Cassandra frowns, "Oh, I know that place, yeah. But it'll take me about 20 minutes to go there and--"
Carla interjects with a raised finger, "Sven sent you to me, right? Well, this is me accepting his very gracious offer." She pulls out her wallet and gives Cassandra a few dollar notes.
Cass incredulously asks, "What am I supposed to do with these? Didn't you change them before coming 'ere?!"
"Didn't have time, babe. Find a place that does that."
"Give me your credit card, then."
"Fuck off."
"Debit card?"
"Not happening, hon."
Cassandra sighs heavily and shoves the American dollars back into the mortal's hands, "I'll pay with me own cash. Oh, and Sven said that you 'ave to go and get him some bathrobe. The red one with a 'K' on it and NOT the aqua one gifted to him by some Sheikh."
Carla gasps and clicks her tongue out of frustrated annoyance, "Why, that little--"
She gathers herself, pats on her cheeks a few times, and puts on a smile, "Never mind. Since you're going out, why don't you...err...grab the bathrobe, too? Hmm?"
Cassandra glares at the other chick, "How do you expect me to do that? I'm not a fucking magician, yeah?"
Carla scoffs, "Tch, I know that. I'll give you the keycard to his suite. Just walk in and rummage through his shit. DON'T touch anything else or masturbate all over his shirts- a fan of his actually did that once. Get the bathrobe he loves like his blanky and get the fuck out of there, OK?"
"You don't 'ave to talk to me like that..."
Carla adjusts her bun a little bit, "I'll talk to you however I please. Listen, babe, I haven't slept in--in over 18 hours, OK? And after the concert, I have to mentally prepare myself for the literal orgy that my boss is gonna throw. I'm hoping to catch some sleep when he sings, so PLEASE, PLEASE just do me these small, tiny, little favors, alright?"
Cassandra rolls her eyes and mutters, "Fine. Gimme the keycard to the hotel room."
Carla quips, "It's on the other side of town."
Cassandra pockets it and murmurs, "Wonderful. Traffic's going to be shite. I'll grab your coffee on the way back, yeah? Anything else. Since I'm your unofficial errand girl, I might as well help you get some work done."
Carla thinks about it for a moment, "He REALLY loves his groupies. Buy a couple of condoms and dental dams, too. That should tide him over until he sleeps. Y'know, he sleeps the whole damn day away. Lucky him, huh?"
"Mm-hmm. Lucky him. Holders of VIP passes are allowed--"
"Yes, yes. You may bring anyone of your choosing. Tell me whoever they are so I can help them skip the line and get them seated. What do they look like?"
Cassandra briefly describes Amy before heading out to get some work done. She heads outside to where she parked the car, gets in, and drives off. On the way, she calls Amy up.
Amy sounds a little tired, "Hmph. Cass. Not a good time. I'm still at the school, helping out with some paperwork. What's--what's the matter?"
"How would you like to attend a rock concert? There's this fella named Sven and I 'ave a VIP--"
Amy lets out a shuddering gasp and puts her hand on her chest, "Sven?! You--you have VIP seats for 1 of his concerts?! In--in this city? Gloughchester?! Right now?!"
Cass is taken aback by Amy's excited reaction, "Uhh...yeah. I've been given special passes to a performance of his, yeah. Something loosely related to me work, err--"
Amy jumps up and down and squeals, "Oh, Cass, Cass, Cass! I just want to grab you and kiss you all over! A rock concert?! And a VIP pass, too?! Fuck me, I'll be there in a jiffy!"
"Oh, good. I already told them you were coming, so just go and head inside when you're ready, alright? Mention me name to the security and they'll let you through."
Amy expectantly asks, "You--you'll be there, right?"
Cassandra gently replies, "Got some errands to run for Sven and his assistant."
Amy's eyes widen, "You what?! You met Sven?! How--how is he?! Is he cool?! I mean, I've always thought that he was very cool ever since I saw a performance of his on the telly, but that was...a while ago. He never seems to age..." She trails off and looks at her reflection in a nearby mirror.
Cassandra evasively answers, "Eh. He's alright, I guess. So, you're a big fan of his, eh?"
"Something like that, I suppose. Listen, I'll be there. But I have to...come up with a convincing enough excuse for...her."
Cass ventures a guess, "You had another row after last night's house party?"
Amy looks at the ring on her finger and nods slowly, "Yeah, something like that. W--will you at least be there during the concert. I'd like to experience it with somebody who at least cares about me and doesn't treat me like some sort of...failure."
Cassandra isn't so sure if she can make that kind of promise, "I'll try me best, yeah? These errands that I 'ave are gonna take their sweet time to complete. But I'll try to hurry along as much as possible, alright?"
Amy's eyes tear up a little. She smiles, "Thank you. This--this means a great deal to me, sweetie. And if--if we get time, I would very much like to spend some quality time with you. We could go back to your place and just...do what we usually do."
Cassandra has a small smile on her lips. She feels a wetness between her legs when she thinks about what that entails, "Oh, I--I'd absolutely love to do that with you. Y--yeah."
Amy wipes her eyes and chuckles, "OK. I'll see you soon, then. I'll need some more time to finalize the details of my, uhh...absentia."
Cassandra chuckles, "Cheeky, cheeky. Mwah." She makes a kissy sound.
Amy imitates it, "Mwah! See you soon!"
The call ends. Amy breathes out. Her cheeks are flushed with excitement and anticipation. It's been so long since she felt this way. She walks past the dimly lit halls of the crumbling school and makes her way towards the office where a mountain of paperwork awaits her.
Cassandra gets a move on. The rain and the bumper-to-bumper traffic mean that the whole trip to the hotel takes close to 1 hour and 45 minutes.
Sven chose a right posh place to stay at, she notes. It's all glass and concrete and steel, with an air of exclusivity and prestige about it. Golden lights shine brightly on the front doors, which are opened by people clad in red vests.
Regal carvings and patterns cover the walls of the lobby. The carpeting is lush and plush, with some abstract patterns of various hues. Cassandra feels so out of place in her pseudo rockstar getup.
Regardless, she pulls the golden keycard out of her purse and makes her way up to the 6th floor. The Baali is staying in room 606. She walks over to the door, slides the card through the lock, and opens the door. It makes a very satisfying clicking beep when she does so.
She walks into the suite and looks around. Sven's suitcases lie open, and his clothes are carelessly strewn all over the place. A few lace bras and boxers are also lying on the ground. Cassandra blushes slightly and clears her throat.
She steps over a shiny electric guitar and starts to look around for mandem's bathrobe. While she's poking around, the concert has already started!
Amy is right at the front. She wildly whoops, cheers, and hollers when Sven walks onto the stage. His hands are lifted high in the air, and he's met with an enthusiastic roar from the crowd.
A scuffed acoustic guitar is strapped over his shoulder. He grins and pulls off a few mean riffs. It's a 1-man show. All the songs are either his (written, composed, and even produced) or the usual modern rock 'n' roll concert staples.
Amy loses herself in the music. She sways from side to side and snaps her fingers while humming along to the lyrics.
Sven makes very generous use of his Presence Discipline to dazzle the crowd, make them a lot more receptive to his music, and get them under his sway. He even uses it to enhance his vocals and overall performance.
It works and the crowd eats it up.
He shreds the guitar like mad and loudly roars into the microphone. For a walking corpse, he looks so very alive! Every now and then, he takes a little bow when the crowd claps and cheers.
Sven even tosses random fans a pack of autographed guitar picks, some t-shirts, signed posters, and other assorted swag and merch. This is all part of the Baali's routine schtick as a rockstar with absolutely nothing important to say.
(His music is lacking in anything genuinely subversive or meaningful. His apoliticism and lack of any coherent ideals only make him more palpable to the profit-motivated parasites and execs who run the industry).
Amy giggles when she manages to catch a t-shirt with Sven's charming face on it. The picture on the article of clothing looks like someone shoved the camera right into blud's face, but that only adds to its charm? Maybe its resale value?
Amy holds it high up in the air and squeals in delight. She jumps up and down, claps, and gets lost in the music.
Meanwhile, Cassandra is back in her Lexus. She saw a few things that were a tad suspicious, but she went into that hotel room to get a bathrobe, not play detective. The silkily smooth bathrobe in question now lies folded and tucked on the passenger seat.
Social media is already abuzz with the news of Sven's performance. And by the time Cassandra reaches the coffeeshop, there's a large gathering of people here to watch the football match on a huge screen set up on the side of the establishment.
She groans and orders whatever Carla asked for. Due to the unusually high number of customers, it takes a long time before Cassandra walks out of the shop with a cup of steaming hot caramel macchiato in hand. She made sure that they used goat's milk, too.
On the way out, Cassandra remarks, "These Americans are odd." She's 10 quid shorter and her mood has been soured a bit.
She has the car parked right outside the coffee shop. She gets in and delicately places the cup in her car's cup holder.
Now comes the last task of facilitating safe sex...
The trip to the nearest store takes 12 or so minutes. She heads in, grabs a bunch of condoms, dental dams, and nothing else.
Cassandra walks over to the cashier and places everything on the counter, "Hiya!"
The cashier gives her a deadpan look and side-eyes the stuff she has on the counter, "Uhh..."
Cassandra winces uncomfortably, "Stag party and a hen do. I've been tasked with getting...this. You know how it is, yeah?"
The young lad chuckles and says, "I get ya. Don't worry, I'm not one to judge." He scans all the items, packs them all into a brown paper bag, and gives her the final price.
Cassandra pays for it with cash, thanks the lad for his time, and walks out of the store. Once she's back in the car, she breathes out and rubs her eyes, "Well, now to get back in 1 piece!"
Traffic lets up, so the return journey isn't as bad. She arrives at the concert venue with some time to spare. The once-hot coffee is now warm in her hands.
Sven is still going strong and Amy is right there at the front, having the absolute time of her life!
Cassandra's eyes are a little heavy. She gives Sven's manager the coffee, the golden keycard, the other stuff, and the bathrobe. Carla quickly looks through everything, nods, and sends Cassandra away with a dismissive wave of her hand.
Cass joins Amy and the 2 of them side-hug and dance along to Sven's generic rock music. Amy's having a great time, and the Ghoul has absolutely no intention of ruining the illusion.
So, she does her best to enjoy herself.
Cassandra saw things in that man's hotel suite. Things that she can't quite put a finger on or logically explain. Her curiosity didn't get the better of her. But she felt a dark and lingering presence in the room. Like someone was closely watching her the whole time, observing every step she made, every breath she took.
It was deeply unsettling. She simply wanted to be out of there ASAP.
Now, she's just going with the flow and dancing along to Sven's music. Even she falls under his use of Presence, albeit to a lesser degree owing to the Vitae of her Domitor.
The concert winds down to an end. Sven thanks everybody for coming out and leaves the stage after posing for the numerous flashing cameras.
Amy excitedly hugs Cassandra, "Oh, it was wonderful! He's--he's so much more handsome in person, isn't he?"
Cass shrugs, "Eh. You're beautiful, though. More than him, anyway."
Amy blushes and kisses Cassandra's cheek, "Thank you! C'mon, let's go and meet him, eh?" The eagerness in her tone is hard to miss.
Cassandra presses her lips into a thin line and assents.
Sven is backstage, where he is getting ready for the afterparty. Groupies have already begun to swarm the Demon Worshipper. Many clamor for autographs, selfies, and even his company for the remainder of the night.
He gives some of them what they want and spares a moment to talk to Cassandra, "Ah, Cassie! And who might this be?"
Amy holds out her hand and smiles awkwardly, "Uhh...I'm Amy. I'm a big fan of yours!"
Sven regards her with a friendly smile and says, "Why, thank you! And how do you know Cassie over here?"
Amy's face goes red. She stammers, "She--she's my..."
Cassandra quickly interjects, "We're just mates, yeah. J--just friends."
Amy rubs her bare ring finger and forces a few smiles, "Y--yeah! Just friends! Close friends!"
Sven gives them an odd look and shrugs, "Alrighty, then. So, Amy, what can I do for you on this lovely, rainy night?"
Amy blushes, "I--I...can we do a selfie? Oi, Cass, get in here." She pulls Cassandra over and the 2 lasses pose with Sven.
He stands in-between them and flashes 2 fingers in the V-sign. Cassandra smiles tightly whilst Amy gets a better angle and smiles widely for the picture.
After that, they say their goodbyes to Sven and Amy leaves to go to the bathroom.
Once she's out of earshot, Cassandra reveals, "I--I helped Carla out with a few errands."
"You did? That's fantastic!"
She further reveals, "I went to your hotel room to get your bathrobe--"
Sven narrows his eyes and pulls her to a corner, "You what?! Oh, you did, did you? Why am I not surprised? Carla always likes delegating shit to people 1 step beneath her."
Cassandra is quick to clarify, "But--but I didn't touch anything else! Promise! I used the keycard to go in, search around, and nothing more, yeah? I also got her coffee and a bunch of condoms and dental dams for your little groupie afterparty later."
Sven claps her on the back, "Thanks! Are you sure you didn't mess with anything in my temporary Haven? Because I'll know if you did."
Cassandra frowns, "Yeah, I'm s--sure."
The Baali isn't wholly convinced. He intensifies his gaze and stares into her hazel eyes, "C'mon, out with it. Better now than later. And if you did futz with anything in my hotel suite, I'll simply have to ask you to forget about it. Either that, or you can Gregory's massive favor goodbye."
Cassandra swallows heavily and shakes her head, "I--I didn't touch anything! I didn't see anything I--I wasn't supposed to see, yeah?! Now--now stop looking at me like that! Please!"
Sven blinks a few times and forces a deep breath, "Oh, OK. Yeah, sorry about that. It's just that I can get pretty intense when I'm under a lot of pressure, y'know? Thank you for all your help today, Cassie. I really appreciate it. And I'm sure that Carla does, too."
Cassandra glares at him with a bit of anger in her eyes, "Right. You owe Greg, yeah? Don't leave without helping out, OK?"
"I won't! Promise!"
She mumbles, "I'll hold you to it..."
Amy returns with a bright smile on her face. She tugs on Cassandra's leather jacket and says, "Let's go!"
Sven watches as the 2 women walk away. He mutters to himself, "How peculiar. Are they...? Ah, they are. That explains why she turned me down. Ah, well, more power to her, I guess."
Cassandra puts her arm around Amy's shoulder and pulls her close, "So, how was your day?"
"Shite." Amy has her arm wrapped around Cassandra's waist, "But seeing Sven up on stage, that really helped to improve my mood a lot!"
Cassie softly chuckles, "So, what's...our plan now, hmm?"
Amy heaves a deep sigh, "I meant what I said earlier. I'll just tell her that I'm working late and need some space. I just can't stand being in that house any longer."
"That bad?!"
"She really knows which of my buttons to push, sweetie. Does--does making less money make you less of a person?"
The Ghoul shakes her head, "No, it doesn't. Besides, what you do is--is--it's important work, innit? Like, school admin is hardly glamorous but...it's necessary."
Amy sighs, "Thank you. She won't even admit that my job is...essential to the continued function of the society at large. But I'm--I'm not going to let her belittle me or put me down."
"I'm sorry to hear that. M--my place?"
"I love that cottage of yours. It's so peaceful and lovely." Amy smiles warmly, the subtle hints playing on her features.
Cassandra toothily smiles back, "Yeah. It's serene, innit? How did you come?"
Amy stifles a groan, "She took the car, so I'm resorting to the bus. Hey, maybe it's better that way, hm?"
Cassandra holds the door of her Lexus open for Amy and gives her a cheeky wink. Amy giggles and settles into the passenger seat. She puts her seatbelt on and gets comfy.
Cassandra joins her in the car and takes off towards home. At a red light, Amy bites her lower lip and places her hand on Cassandra's thigh, "Do you want to have fun tonight?"
The Ghoul's lip quivers, "D--do you?" A moistness creeps between her legs.
Amy leans over and gently licks Cassandra's neck, "I do, babe, I do."
Cassandra's breath hitches. She gulps heavily and says, "O--OK. W--why don't we just do it in--in the car?"
Amy snickers, "Oh, please. We already shagged in your car. It was quite amazing, but I want the bed tonight! And I want us in that tub of yours again, OK?"
Cassandra lets out a shuddering sigh, "Alright, alright." Her eyes flit over to Amy's left hand. She notices the tan line on Amy's ring finger. A surge of guilt rushes through her.
"What's wrong?" Amy asks while involuntarily rubbing the same finger with her thumb.
"She--she won't ever find out about...us, right?"
Amy scoffs, "We're not advertising this, are we? So, no, I don't think so. I'm surprised that you're still...with me. Even after I told you I was a married woman, you wouldn't let go. Why is that?"
Cassandra's cheeks heat up.
Amy speculates, "Maybe you are clingy. Maybe clingy is what I need right now. I tell you, it beats having the cold shoulder. And her cunnilingus technique? God, it leaves a lot to be desired."
"A--And what if she found out? If she somehow--I mean, there were A LOT of cameras at tonight's concert--"
Amy chuckles and slowly rubs Cassandra's thigh, "Well, that'd be a bit of a scandal, wouldn't it? I'll handwave it all away and explain it to her as a simple coincidence. As far as everybody else is concerned, we're just...mates."
Cassandra feels a little relieved by that answer, "Good. I don't want to get into trouble over something like this. You'd lose your job, wouldn't you?"
"Pfft. You think that I'm the only lady in all of Gloughchester having an affair? You'd be surprised how many are carrying on like that."
Yet again, a tightness forms in Cassandra's throat.
Amy purrs, "Oh, sweetie, don't look at me like that. It only gets me wetter than the whole of England."
She slowly runs her fingers up Cassandra's neck and cups her chin, "Let's just have fun tonight, yeah?"
Cassandra can feel a sensation in her chest. Her heart is thumping out of control. Amy looks deeply into her hazel eyes and makes the most innocent smile. Yet, there is a certain seductive naughtiness to that smile.
A kind of naughtiness that makes Cassandra's knees weak and her pussy wet. The rest of the drive back home is...rife with sexual tension and barely suppressed urges.
They walk into Cassandra's quaint little cottage with their hands held tightly.
Cassandra gulps and stammers, but the words themselves fail to escape her lips. Amy unbuttons her own shirt and flings it to the corner. Her white lace bra is a little transparent, which makes Cassandra blush.
Amy then pulls her skirt down and steps out of it. She has some gray panties with a noticeable wet spot in the middle.
Cassandra stares at the other woman's panties and licks her lips. Her hands move on autopilot as she takes her jacket off, takes her top off, and starts to undo the button on her jeans.
Amy walks over to her lover and helps her out with that task. She bends down and helps Cass slip out of her shoes as well. Cassandra looks down on Amy and smiles warmly.
Amy presses her face into the front of Cassandra's jeans and sniffs deeply. Cassandra puts her trembling hand on Amy's shoulder and gasps softly. Amy grabs the waistband of the Ghoul's panties and pulls them down.
She stares at the bushy patch of pubic hair on Cassandra's crotch and gently runs her fingers through it. Cassandra notices that Amy shaved her pubes off.
Amy follows her lover's gaze and laughs, "Oh, yeah. Gave the hedge a bit of a trim, haha! When was the last time you shaved yours?"
"I--I don't know..." Cassandra stammers while Amy pulls her in for a smooch. Tongues and teeth clash together as the 2 women kiss each other deeply and passionately.
While still making out, they somehow manage to fumble their way to the bedroom. Amy breaks the kiss and starts to nibble on Cassandra's lower lip. The Ghoul responds by pushing her onto the bed with a bit more force than she intended.
Amy giggles and playfully swats at Cassandra's wrist, "Ooh, you want to play rough, do you?"
Cassandra gets on top of Amy and straddles her waist. She leans down to kiss the woman's neck while her hand dips between Amy's legs. Her fingers are coated in a warm wetness, and Amy lets out a deep, throaty moan.
Amy looks up at Cass and purrs while appreciating the other woman's apple-shaped body. The remainder of the clothing soon flies off to some random corner of the room.
Cassandra cups her own tits in her hands and fixes Amy with an inviting, sultry expression. Amy puckers up and wraps her lips around 1 of Cassandra's perky nipples. She lets out a soft moan as she sucks on it and flicks the tip of it with her tongue.
Cassandra throws her head back and whimpers in response. She puts her hand on the back of Amy's neck and holds her close while she grinds her pussy on the other woman's thigh. Their respective moans fill the room with a symphony of lust and horniness.
Amy pants and keeps on sucking. She soon draws back, spit leaking from her lips. A strand of saliva hangs from her lip to Cassandra's nipple. She proceeds to devote her full attention to the next nipple- her tongue circles the areola before she wraps her lips around it.
She gives it a few tentative sucks and then starts to lovingly nibble on it a little. Cassandra reacts by lightly giggling in between gasps of pleasure. She moves her hips back and forth, her pussy growing more and more wet by the second.
Cass firmly holds onto Amy's head and pushes her deeper into her bosom. Amy makes a muffled noise that sounds like a moan of approval.
The Ghoul shuts her eyes and lives in the euphoric moment. Amy just keeps on sucking and sucking. She stops and laps up the nipple with the flat of her tongue. Her hands find purchase on Cassandra's hips.
She looks down at Amy and lovingly strokes her cheek, their eyes staring deeply into each another. Amy looks up at her lover with a certain twinkle in her eyes. There is a deep level of intimacy that Cassandra feels with the other woman.
Amy pushes Cassandra onto the bed and mounts her. She places her hands on both sides of her lover's biceps and smirks down at her.
She seductively purrs, "I would very--very much like to feel those lips of yours on my cunt right about now." Amy runs her hand through Cassandra's brunette hair and tugs on it with a playful wink.
Cassandra eagerly nods and readies herself by licking her lips. She puts her warm hands around Amy's waist and gently helps guide her down. Amy lowers herself onto Cassandra's mouth and gasps when she feels the Ghoul's lips touch her clitoris.
Amy's fingers go through the other lady's hair again and she pulls on it. Cassandra lets out a soft moan, which vibrates against Amy's wet slit.
Amy proceeds to move her hips in a circular motion. She moves back and forth, moaning softly all the while. Cassandra makes a lot of gobbling sounds while she absolutely enjoys Amy's pussy. Her tongue darts deeper into Amy's vagina and tastes her juices.
"Oh, oh, oh! C--CASS! CASS! OH GOD! FUUUUCK!" Amy rolls her eyes to the back of her head and shudders with pleasure as Cassandra's oral ministrations rocks her body. She tightly holds onto the top of Cassandra's head and starts to ride her face in a frenzy of passion.
Amy lets out a strangled cry and arches her back. Cassandra's tongue darts in and out, goes round and round, and does all kinds of naughty things to her lover's clit. This goes on for a few more minutes till Amy can feel the orgasm train nearing its destination.
Cassandra licks and sucks even harder, which pushes Amy over the edge. Some wet gobbling and nibbling sounds ensue, followed by a loud shriek of delight from Amy. The mortal's entire body experiences a surging jolt of ecstasy and she bucks her hips wildly. She gushes some clear fluids into Cassandra's open mouth.
Cassandra swallows and widens her eyes in delighted disbelief. She looks at Amy and stammers, "Y--you squirted??"
Amy can hardly believe it either. She covers her mouth with her hand and tries to form an answer, but Cassandra has other ideas, and Amy knows what they are just by looking into the Ghoul's hazel eyes.
Cassandra silently nods and closes her eyes. Amy slides down her lover's body, showering kisses on her tits and stomach. When Amy reaches Cassandra's thighs, she gives them a little massage with her hands before going down on her.
Amy uses her fingers to part the folds of Cassandra's hairy pussy, and she then gently licks her slit with the tip of her tongue. She laps up the other lady's labia and chuckles faintly. Amy uses her finger to part the inner folds of the Ghoul's vagina.
Cassandra's chest is rising and falling. Her breathing is heavy and her legs are trembling with anticipation. Amy sticks her tongue into her lover's wet cunt and wiggles it around.
Amy holds onto Cass's things for support, closes her eyes, and happily gives what she had just received- cunnilingus. She laps up Cassandra's juices and slurps them up like it's the most delicious thing she's ever tasted. Her teeth lightly scrape against the wet and fleshy parts inside.
She can feel Cassandra's hips jerking involuntarily, and she holds on tighter. Amy notes that her lover's vag tastes somewhat salty, but she's not complaining! She loves salt and she loves pussy, so this is just the perfect combination for her.
Cassandra bites down on her finger, thereby stifling the screams that she's desperate to let loose. But she also doesn't want to get too loud just yet, because she wants to draw out the sexy moment for as long as possible.
Amy initially starts slow but soon picks up the pace, anticipating her lover's reactions based solely on bodily cues, gasps, moans, and the way the pussy itself throbs, moistens, and spasms. Amy's tongue goes into the deepest crevices of the Ghoul's nether regions and gets all the sweet spots that indubitably bring an earth-shattering orgasm about.
Cassandra lets out a gasp and a shudder, and Amy knows that she's hitting all the right notes, all the right spots, crevices, and salty little corners. Amy presses her face closer to Cassandra's crotch and wiggles her tongue even more vigorously than before.
Cassandra's arms flail about as she grits her teeth and screams, "AAAAAAAAAH! AMMMMMMY! AAAAAAAH! FUCK! YES! OH, YES! HMMMMMMM! I'M...I'M SO CLOSE!"
The Ghoul's entire body shakes uncontrollably, and she lets out a long, drawn-out moan. Her eyes roll to the back of her head, and her whole body begins to involuntarily convulse. She grips the bedsheets in her fists and twists them around, almost tearing them in the process.
Amy laps up the salty juices that are flowing freely from the other woman's pussy. Cassandra lets out a shaky breath and can barely move her body. Amy pulls back, panting heavily, and rests her head on Cassandra's thigh.
She wistfully looks up at her lover and squeezes her tit, "Oi...Cass. Babe?"
Cassandra's chuckle is shaky, "Cor blimey! I--I came! But it wasn't the same gushing you did, yeah? Still...Still felt good, though."
Amy wiggles her way up till she's nose-to-nose with the Ghoul. The 2 women stare deeply, hungrily into each other's eyes. Amy bites her lower lip and says, "Cassie, I..."
Cassandra pushes Amy down onto herself and passionately kisses her. The kiss is deep, intimate, and it carries a lot of weight behind it. Lips clash and tongues meet, as do 2 pairs of hands. Fingers are interlocked, and their bodies press together in a way that makes both women feel more alive than they've ever been.
Friction is generated when they start grinding on each other. Amy breaks the kiss and looks down on Cassandra, her eyes sparkling, and softly pants, "D--do you--"
Cassandra places her hand on the back of Amy's head and pulls her in for another smooch. Moans fill the bedroom while the women continue making out. The Ghoul gently caresses Amy's short black hair while they kiss.
Lips are mashed up against each other in a passionate and desirous kiss that goes on for minutes on end. Eventually, they break apart and just stare into each other's eyes, breathing and panting heavily.
Amy's lips quiver, "I--I have work tomorrow--"
Cassandra pulls her lover back down for another kiss. Their tongues wrestle with each other for a good few minutes longer. After that, Cassandra pulls away, still holding onto Amy's head.
She bats her eyelashes and smiles in a somewhat cheeky manner. Amy grins back, but then a pained expression crosses her features.
Cassandra lets out a sigh, her hot breath tickling Amy's face, "Don't say it, yeah? Please...don't. I--I know what you're going to say, just...don't."
Amy presses her lips into a thin line and places her head on Cassandra's ample bosom. Cass gently strokes Amy's hair while the mortal silently cries. Cassandra's heart is thumping out of her chest.
Amy can hear her lover's heartbeats. She sniffles and asks, "H--how are we going to keep do this?"
Cassandra pushes Amy's head closer to herself and whispers, "I...don't know. All I know is I just love having sex with you, Amy. I really do. And I don't want it to stop. But it--it's just not about the shagging, yeah? It's about the...connection we share. The deep connection."
Amy pulls herself up and places her fingers on Cassandra's lips. She lightly drums her fingers on the Ghoul's lips and says, "Shh. So, for tomorrow, I was thinking--"
Cassandra interjects, "Don't worry. I'll get you in. Same seat, same pass, same everything. I'm sort of an assistant to Sven's assistant at this point!"
Amy giggles softly, "I don't know how you do it, but you do. Thank you so much, Cass, babe."
Cassandra puckers her lips and closes her eyes. Amy smirks and leans closer to give her a big, tender kiss. Their lips part and their tongues swirl around together for a few minutes more. Soon, they pull apart and start tittering.
After some heavy petting, where their hands roam all over their sweaty, naked bodies, Amy pulls back and purrs, "I am spent..."
Cassandra's expression falters, "At--at least you should sleep 'ere, yeah?"
Amy places her head on the Toreador Ghoul's boobs. She wiggles around a little and gets comfy. Cassandra wraps her arms around Amy's midriff and holds her close. She holds her tight. A bit too tight, but Amy doesn't mind.
Amy's voice gets sultrier when she asks, "Is that tub of yours big enough for 2 people?"
Cassandra lightly taps Amy's bum and chuckles, "It's small enough for the both of us."
"Perfect." Amy yawns. Her eyes droop and her breathing evens out. Cassandra lets out a louder yawn and shuts her eyes. The duo falls asleep in each other's arms. Their nude, sweaty bodies are tightly pressed together in a loving embrace.
Cassandra's snoring- as usual- is loud and grating. Amy can feel the Ghoul's heartbeat while tiredness drags her down into slumber. Amy presses her face closer to Cassandra's bosom and deeply inhales. A small and relieved smile of satisfaction takes hold of her lips before sleep fully claims her.
In time, the sun peeks through the curtains and gently rouses the Ghoul and her lover from their slumbering.
Morning comes, and Amy is woken up Cassandra groping her arse. She giggles and playfully swats at the other woman's hand, "Oi! Is that the way you say good morning?"
Cassandra's lips soon find Amy's. They share a warm, loving smooch that lasts for a few minutes, moans, giggles, and all. When they pull apart, Amy has a cheeky look in her eyes, "Tub?"
Cass huskily echoes, "Tub! C'mon, I'll get it ready while you...err...how are you going to explain your absence to--"
Amy places a finger on Cassandra's lips and shushes her, "Shh. I'll think of something. I can always say that I worked late. She...doesn't even care about what I do, so I should be able to get away with this without too much of a problem."
Cassandra nods and gets out of bed, her body still tingling from last night's...shagging. She can still feel Amy's tongue on her pussy, and it felt nothing short of AMAZING!
Amy props herself by her elbows, her breasts slowly rising and falling with each breath she takes, "And what are you doing today, hmm?"
Cassandra shrugs, "Eh. A little bit of roaming here and there, I reckon. Evening is when things get busy for me. You know how it is."
Amy nods and slowly gets out of bed. She sniffs and looks down at her ring finger. She shakes her head and spends a few moments staring at the nature outside the cottage's window. She then turns back and gives her lover a small smile.
The sound of water filling up a bathtub is music to Amy's ears.
Cassandra, in all her naked glory, walks over to Amy and places a hand on her shoulder. She takes on a more wistful tone and says, "I--I like you, yeah?"
Amy's smile is tight. She grips the other woman's hand and nods, "Yeah. I--I like you too, Cass."
Cassandra sighs and changes the subject, "So, who's the little spoon? You or me?"
Amy bites her lower lip and shifts from foot to foot. She's fidgeting and trying her best to keep her emotions in check. She eventually snaps back to reality and replies, "I--I guess I'll be the little spoon. You can get all the dirt off me back, yeah?"
Cassandra's voice sounds more confident, "Oh, definitely...r--right this way?" She does an elaborate sort of bow and ushers the mortal woman into the bathroom.
Amy lets out a soft laugh and walks ahead, head held slightly high, shoulders pulled back, and her breasts jutting out.
Cassandra steps into the warm and inviting water. She lets out a tiny moan and looks up at Amy with expecting eyes, "C'mon in. It's not too hot or too cold...it's just right."
Amy's smile is cheeky. She does a few elaborate stretches before stepping in. A soft moan escapes her lips as she sinks in. She throws her head back on Cassandra's shoulder and smiles widely.
Cassandra holds her close and gently kisses her neck. She moves up to her cheek and pecks it, and then she kisses her ear. Amy closes her eyes and basks in the attention that she's getting.
Amy holds onto her lover's hand, fingers tightly interlocked, and lets out a happy sigh, "I...even she never gives me this kind of attention."
Cassandra freezes and gulps. She's about to say something but thinks better of it and instead starts massaging Amy's back. She playfully splashes the other woman's face with a bit of water, causing Amy to squeal and giggle uncontrollably.
Amy playfully responds by splashing some water into Cassandra's face. They spend some time splashing each other and having fun.
Eventually, they start washing each other off and getting themselves cleaned up for the day (and night) ahead.
Cassandra's roaming fingers soon find their way down to Amy's shaved pussy. The mortal woman lets out a low moan and arches her back as the Ghoul inserts a finger into her vagina.
Amy's hips jerk forward involuntarily as Cassandra starts moving her finger in and out of her. She follows it up by adding another finger into the mix and soon the mortal woman is getting fingered to a quick orgasm.
Cassandra places a hand on the back of Amy's neck and pulls her in for a deep kiss, their wet tongues swirling around each other's mouths. After a few more seconds of that, Cassandra pulls away and grins at Amy.
Amy is panting and at a loss for words. She leans closer and nuzzles Cassandra's neck.
Cass shuts her eyes and throws her head back, simply basking in this intimate moment that they're sharing together. Amy's warm breath tickles the Ghoul's skin.
While being kissed, Cass keeps on fingering the other woman. Her fingers go in and out of Amy's wet cunt, and her palm lightly rubs up against Amy's clitoris.
Amy's breath hitches and a small gasp escapes her lips. Her body tenses up as she experiences yet another orgasm, though this time it's not as intense as before. She sinks into the water a bit and holds onto Cassandra tightly, shuddering and gasping as waves of pleasure course through her.
She leans into her quasi-immortal lover and softly moans, "C--Cass..."
Cassandra purrs, "I--I...do you 'ave to go to work today? Can't we just stay 'ere till evening? Maybe shag again--"
Amy shakes her head vigorously, "N--no. No. I have to go back. Otherwise, she'll get suspicious. But, uh...I don't know if we can do this again, though. I'd love to...believe me. But I just can't risk it. I--I'm sorry."
Cassandra nods, but it's obvious that her heart is breaking, "I understand, Amy. We have to keep this a--a secret, yeah? Why don't you just--"
Amy leans her head back and looks up at Cassandra with an unreadable expression. She gently shushes, "Shh. We've already been over this. Let's just not talk about it, OK?"
Cassandra's face falls, "But--"
"Shh. Let's just enjoy the moment. The here and the now. Live in the moment, Cass. Please..." Amy's voice cracks.
Cassandra places her hands on the other woman's shoulders, and she looks deeply into her eyes. From there, Cass squeezes Amy's breasts and lets out a few cheeky chuckles.
Amy laughs along. Before Amy exits the tub, Cassandra lightly pinches her nipples and tugs on them playfully. Amy is soaking wet when she gets out of the bathtub, but not just because of the water!
Cassandra stares at her lover's vag and leans in to give it a few kisses. Amy's legs shake from the intense pleasure that she feels. She grabs Cassandra's head and pushes it closer to her crotch.
"Oh--oh, god. I'm going to be late but fuck it...! Keep--keep licking me!" Amy moans while grinding her hips into Cassandra's face.
Cassandra obliges by letting her tongue do all kinds of naughty things to Amy's wet pussy. Amy's legs shake and she presses her palm against the nearby wall for support. She gasps as a particularly strong jolt of orgasmic ecstasy surges through her whole body.
Her pussy gushes and her legs involuntarily spasm. Cassandra's face is covered in Amy's clear fluids. She pulls away, panting and wiping her face. She cups her hand in the bathwater and washes her face clean.
She then looks up at Amy with a small smile, "You...you squirted. Again. Blimey, you've got a real knack for that, eh? It was...nice."
Amy chuckles and helps Cassandra out of the bathtub. They embrace each other and rub their wet bodies together. Amy giggles softly and purrs, "Well, I'm glad that I'm so good at it. Before I--I met you, I never even knew that I had the ability to do it! It's like..."
Cassandra sways from side to side while holding onto Amy, "Yeah...yeah, it's like a talent, innit?"
Amy smirks and lightly bites on Cassandra's earlobe, "Hmmm...and you somehow bring that talent out of me. What else can you make me do, I wonder? And what are YOU capable of, hmm?"
Cassandra answers by kissing her lover. Their tongues intertwine and they press their drying bodies even closer to each other.
When they break the kiss, they're both panting. They flash each other a smile and proceed to get dressed.
Amy hastily puts on her clothing after going around looking for all of the different items that were strewn about the floor. Cassandra opts to remain naked. She lies on the bed, propping herself up by her elbows. She simply watches on as Amy gets herself ready to leave.
Amy puts on her shoes and sighs softly.
Cassandra is still in that very suggestive and inviting pose. She cocks her head to the side and bats her eyelashes, "What are you waiting for, eh? Me offer still stands, y'know?"
Amy presses her lips into a thin line and politely declines, "I would love nothing more, but my job is--is how I keep the heating on."
The Ghoul plainly nods. She understands Amy's predicaments all too well. She then hops off of the bed and approaches Amy. The 2 women look deeply into each other's eyes before Cassandra gives her lover a tight hug.
They exchange a brief kiss before Amy leaves. Cassandra walks over to the door and wistfully watches as Amy briskly walks away. Amy blows a kiss and waves goodbye before disappearing out of sight.
Cassandra's heart sinks a little. She closes the door and slides down it with a loud sigh. She shuts her eyes and presses her forehead against her knees.
She mumbles something incoherently, gets up, and starts pacing around. She cups her jiggly tits in her hands and fondly recalls Amy sucking on them, licking them, and just doing all kinds of lovely things with them.
Cass trills her lips and lazily throws herself back onto the bed. Her arse is facing the ceiling. She buries her face into a pillow and inhales deeply, taking in Amy's lingering scents.
After a few minutes, she's ready to take a stroll. The evening is when the real work begins, after all.
Gregory's Ghoul idly ambles about, the orange leaves crunching under her feet. A group of squirrels chatter away as they hop from tree to tree. A light drizzle falls from the gray sky. Cassandra's shoulders slump as she walks on.
A small fog hangs over the city as a whole. Cassandra shoves her hands deep into her pockets and sits on a nearby wooden bench. Some of the sun's rays peek through the cloud cover, and some of them gently hit her pale face.
Cars and bikes zoom past her. They're going too fast, though, so she can't even tell who's inside any of them. She spends a few minutes in contemplation before standing up, stretching, loudly groaning, and then walking away.
She pulls out her Blackberry phone and starts playing a random game on it. Her mind is abuzz with thoughts of Amy and the fun that they had last night. But that's hardly the only thing on her mind. She also thinks about all of the stuff she's probably going to be doing tonight.
Cassandra wishes that she and Amy could 'ave sex again tonight, but she knows that it's impossible. She just has to keep her head down and do what she's told. She has to ensure that Sven the Baali rockstar keeps up his end of whatever favor he owes to Gregory.
Even now, Cassandra isn't wholly sure of what she saw in that Demon's hotel suite. But she could feel something dark and foreboding emanating from that man...and his temporary lodgings.
She just hopes that she won't be coerced into doing some horrible shit tonight...and in the nights to come.
"What have you gotten yourself into, Greg?" she fearfully asks while running her hand through her hair.
The devoted Vassal Ghoul also adds, "And what 'ave I gotten into?"
Oh, she'll find out soon enough.
Right now, she blissfully flits from 1 task to another, remaining somewhat oblivious to the larger picture. It's what she's gotten used to ever since accepting the gift of the Blood; and if she wants to maintain her quasi-immortal status, it's likely what she'll ALWAYS be expected to do when called upon by her betters.
But even now, the afternoon is still young. Cassandra is soon about to be swept up into a vortex of events that are far bigger than herself...or her Domitor, for that matter.
The remainder of this gray and gloomy afternoon goes by in a blur...
Cassandra's eyes pop open as soon as the sun retreats beneath the horizon. She slowly rises out of her slumber and looks around. She blinks and rubs the sleep out of her eyes.
She splashes some water on her face and prepares for the night ahead.
Meanwhile, Gregory is still being tormented by that...thing. The Aapilu is perched on the edge of his bed, like a malevolent gargoyle overlooking a street.
The Toreador helplessly watches as it inspects him with those 5 piercing and glassy eyes of its. Its many fingers twitch, and it lets out a series of disturbing clicking sounds.
Gregory is helplessly paralyzed and frozen. His Unliving body is still coming around to the fact that he can't move. He can't move at all! He tries to speak but nothing comes out of his mouth. He can only grunt and growl.
The mouthless creature keeps on clicking and clicking. The sound is getting louder and more frequent. Gregory helplessly watches as the entity of the Vitae shifts its position on his bed, almost as if it's trying to get a better look at him.
It stalks closer to him until it's hovering right over his face, staring down at him with all 5 of its familiar eyes.
A small and tiny gasp escapes the Artisan's lips as he experiences a series of flashbacks from his past. His late wife and late daughter briefly come to mind. He was always a bit of a workaholic who very much put his nose to the grindstone and spent the majority of his time working.
He kept a bit of that jolly ol' stiff upper lip, did his work with a sort of dry and professional diligence, took his lunch (mainly fish and chips) quietly on a bench outside, and then returned to the workplace.
He wasn't one for fraternizing with his fellow co-workers or having long conversations with them. He came, clocked in, kept his head down, worked hard, and left as soon as his shift was over.
Rinse and repeat till the fangs of his Sire upended that routine, and the rest fades away from Gregory's memory.
All of these thoughts and memories swirl around in Gregory's mind, and the Aapilu seems to be acting as some sort of trigger (or catalyst) for this mental process.
The Toreador suddenly remembers something that he forgot: he was once a simple man. He had the disposition of a man who was perfectly content with being a simple man.
But art dealing changed his Unlife and disrupted a great number of things around him. A large portion of his free time was spent on getting himself entrenched in the art scene.
The Aapilu blocks him from remembering anything else. It then shifts its position again. It simply stares down on the paralyzed, terrified, and helpless Toreador with an unreadable expression on its mouthless and slimy "face".
Gregory can feel his shriveled heart acting up. He can hear it pounding in his ears, and he's breathing heavily through his nostrils.
The Aapilu tilts its head to the side. Its sticky fingers stroke the man's cheek ever so tenderly. Gregory wants nothing more than to shove those fingers away from him, but he can't move a single muscle.
Gregory can feel a trail of slimy and viscous red fluid making its way down his cheek. The 5-eyed creature keeps on stroking him and clicking away. It leans closer to his ear and lets out a few disturbing noises that make Gregory shiver in fear.
And as soon as it had appeared, it vanishes into thin air. Poof!
Gregory's Unliving body slowly relaxes, and he finds that he can move his limbs again. With a fear-ridden expression taking up most of his face, he slowly rises out of his bed, blinks, and surveys his luxurious surroundings.
Nothing stands out. But he does notice that an abstract art piece hanging on the wall is...leaking paint onto the floor. The variegated shades of green ooze out of the artwork itself and congeal into a puddle on the floor.
Gregory stares at it for a few seconds before looking away.
He stammers and whispers to himself, "What the bloody hell--?" His train of troubled thoughts are suddenly interrupted when he hears a knock on the door.
Cassandra is excitedly calling out, "Hiya, Greg! Oi, you in there?"
Gregory groans and heads downstairs. He dully ushers her in and tells her to wait, "I just got up. Let me freshen up and then we'll talk."
Cass sits down on her Domitor's couch and turns on the telly. It's a large flatscreen thing mounted on the wall- it came with the Haven. The Ghoul flips through various channels while she waits for Gregory to come back down.
The Epicurean takes a quick shower, dries off, throws on some formal clothing, and goes downstairs to greet Cassandra.
Cassandra herself is dressed in a flowery blouse, wide-legged pants, and a pair of stylish flats. She gets off the couch and asks, "So, what's the plan tonight, eh?"
Gregory buttons his shirt's sleeves and calmly replies, "More of the same, I suppose. Keep an eye on Sven. Make sure that he knows that he owes me a favor. You know how these American rockstars tend to be."
Cassandra snickers and shakes her head, "Yeah. For an alleged Devil Worshipper, he seems pretty...I don't know, tame, I reckon? No big horns, breathing fire, pitchforks, and all that stuff. He just seems like a bloke, yeah?"
"That's often the case with the Unholy. But you know better than most that painting in broad strokes is a terrible idea."
"Hmm. Yeah. I helped him out a bit last night. Just some small favors here and there..."
"Good, good. If anything changes, inform me at the soonest. But only if it is an emergency. Otherwise, you're more than capable of handling whatever might come your way. Remember: it's better to ask for forgiveness than permission."
The Ghoul's eyebrows shoot up in surprise, "Uh...OK? What spurred that on?"
The Domitor flatly responds, "We're all going to have to do some things which we're not particularly proud of, but they must be done."
Cassandra gets a little afraid now. She mutes the telly with the remote control and fixes her Domitor with a worried look, "Um..."
Gregory is quick to alleviate her fears and apprehensions, "It's nothing, really. I just want you to be...cautious. You've never done anything like this before, have you? Well, no use worrying about that now. It is what it is. But there are reasons why I've kept you away from the more unpleasant and--and unsavory side of things."
He grimly mutters, "It's better that way. However, things have changed. As such, we have to adapt to the circumstances as best as we can. If we don't, we'll find ourselves on the receiving end of someone else's wrath. Amongst other things."
Cassandra's eyes are wide with shock and confusion. She nods her head and gulps loudly.
Greg sighs, "Don't look so incredulous. You know these things better than most Ghouls do. Granted, it was all theoretical, but you have a very solid grasp of it."
Cass nods, "I--I know what you mean, yeah. How--how long do you think this'll drag on for?"
"For as long as it takes. Why? Do you have someplace that you need to be?"
"N--no. I was just asking. And I'm expected to do EVERYTHING on your behalf?"
"Yes. We've already discussed this, haven't we? At a more opportune time, I shall provide you with a better explanation for my actions. For now, however, you have been fully authorized to do as you see fit. So long as you remember that you serve ME, of course. And let's not forget our Clan and...the Camarilla as a whole, I suppose."
Cassandra gulps and shakily nods, "R--right. Can't forget either of them, innit? Anything else before I head out?"
"Make sure that Sven doesn't run off anywhere. If you have to, pester him about the favor that he owes me. But don't press him too hard, though. A gentle reminder should suffice. He and I simply must remain in good standing with each other."
Cassandra nods, "Sure thing, Greg. Want me to get you any Sven merchandise, eh?" She's asking it more as a joke (and an attempt to lighten what is an otherwise heavy mood).
Gregory plainly declines, "I am fine, thank you. Just do as I told you to, and that should be sufficient."
Cass presses her luck and asks, "What exactly do you need him for, anyway?"
Greg's face tics and he uncomfortably shuffles around, "I need his help, and he owes me. Simple as that. Is Carla still his assistant, by any chance?"
"Yeah. You know her, too? From what I've gathered, Sven usually burns through them like they're nothing."
The Domitor curtly nods, "Yes, I know her. To be honest, I'm surprised that she has lasted as long as she did. For a mortal, that is. But you never answered my question: how is she faring?"
The Ghoul shrugs her shoulders, "Eh. She's fine. Very rude. Maybe it's an American thing, I don't know. Spent 10 quid getting her a special coffee last night! 10 quid! Just for a bloody coffee!"
Greg weakly chuckles and shakes his head, "That sounds like her. Will there be anything else? Or was that all?"
Cassandra gets the hint and slowly rises up, "I think I got it all handled on me end, yeah. I'll say hi to Carla for you, eh?"
"Yes. You may." Devoid of emotion or any sense of human warmth.
Cassandra stifles a sigh and exits her Domitor's Haven. She takes a look around, nods appreciatively, and saunters away. She makes her way to the Lexus and plops down into the driver's seat.
She leans back against the headrest and closes her eyes. She proceeds to shove the key into the ignition, twists it, and starts up the car. The engine purrs loudly and the windshield wipers slowly come to life.
As she drives through the streets of Gloughchester, the rain slowly intensifies. Her mind is full of all kinds of thoughts and feelings. Some worried, some horny, some confused, and some scared.
She drives on with her eyes fixed on the wet and somewhat dark roads ahead. The night sky is obscured by the dense clouds above. Cassandra takes a few turns before ending up at the same venue that Sven performed in last night.
For what is essentially a 1-man show, he sure knows how to bring a swarm of people into the place! Cassandra gasps in disbelief when she sees the line of people outside. They're all dressed in various types of clothing.
She takes a moment to survey the lineup outside the venue. A great deal of them look to be older- pot bellies, graying hair, creaky limbs, impatient coughs, and some mild bickering.
Probably the "old heads" of the UK's rock 'n' roll scene attempting to relive some of their former glory by witnessing a true legend of the music industry! They brave the falling rain, determined to have but a glimpse at the legend himself.
Speaking of legends, the Baali rockstar from the US of A is lounging in a different dressing room that he was in last night. He's absentmindedly strumming his guitar and writing down a few new lyric ideas floating around in his head. It's getting to be the witching hour for him.
Sort of.
He acknowledges Cassandra with a dry "Ah!" as she strides in. Sven is wearing his favorite bathrobe and absolutely nothing underneath it. The Ghoul takes a moment to take in the sight of him.
Her face scrunches up, "You're not dressed?! But--but the show's starting soon!"
Sven absentmindedly strums on his acoustic guitar and notes, "Iggy Pop usually performs shirtless. You know, I should do that, too."
He strikes a different chord and adds, "They'd eat my chiseled abs up with a fuckin' spoon. Hm. Anyway, Carla has some more stuff for you to do. Don't worry, it's just the sorta thing that a Ghoul like you is used to."
Cassandra folds her arms and casts a side-long glance at Sven, "What's that supposed to mean?"
Sven erratically gestures while holding his pick, "Eh, y'know. Ghouls. They, like, do the bidding of their immortal masters in exchange for the stuff." The way he says "the stuff" is kinda off-putting and abrasive.
Cassandra's cheeks puff as she sharply exhales. Carla barges into the room with an annoyed look on her face.
She parts her hair to the side, her expression shifting from flustered to mildly relieved, "Oh. There you are! Do you know where I put my...ugh! Dammit, Sven! How many times have I told you--"
Cass slowly waves at the frustrated mortal, "Hiya, Carla!"
Carla pinches the bridge of her nose and lets out a long sigh. She simmers down and greets back, "Yes, hello to you, too. Since you're here, you might as well make yourself useful. Walk with me." It sounds more like a command than a polite suggestion.
Sven twirls his fingers and smirks while the duo walks out of his dressing room. They spend a few seconds going through some sort of hectic and frantic hallway before ending up in a mostly deserted storage area littered with props and things of that sort from eras past.
It's where the groupies (the special ones, that is), various production staff, and members of Sven's extended entourage can take a break. Acrid smoke (weed, most likely) permeates the entire room. A few people are laid back on chairs, recliners, or futons.
Cassandra tightly grimaces and waves a hand in front of her nose, her features scrunching up in mild annoyance. Carla immediately puts on a smile and switches her tone to something polite.
"I need you to do a few more favors for me."
"That's what I'm 'ere for, yeah. But if you're expecting me to drop 10 quid on another cuppa, then--"
Carla clicks her tongue and interrupts, "Tch! Don't talk over me, dammit! I got A LOT on my plate, and I need someone reliable and--and stable. Do you know anyone who fits that description?"
"Uh...?"
"YOU, dummy! Now, listen up: I need you to drive around and retrieve a few more things, OK?"
Cassandra keeps her guard up, "Like what?"
Carla trills her lips, "Don't worry, I'm not sending you on a shopping trip. Or a coffee run, heh. But I would actually appreciate a large cup of Spanish latte with uhm, let's see...oat milk. Yep, that. Can you remember that?"
Cassandra scowls, "I'm not 5, yeah? What else do you need?" She makes sure to keep her annoyance in check.
Carla hands over the keycard to the Baali's hotel suite, "You're gonna need to retrieve some more stuff from you-know-who's hotel room. Don't look at me like that- I've been busy the whole fucking morning, OK? I had to pop a few pills- uppers- just to stay awake!"
She digs around in her overflowing purse for something else, all the while mumbling incoherently about Sven and his antics. Cassandra's expression softens and she patiently waits, grimacing a little as the acrid weed smoke stings her nostrils.
Carla soon finds what she was looking for.
Cassandra frowns, "Lipstick?"
"Can you help do my makeup? I'd ask 1 of the makeup artists here, but I'm afraid that I might've burned a few bridges with them." The mortal presses her lips together, expels some air, and takes a moment to process what she just said.
The Ghoul shrugs and helps the mortal chick with her makeup. Some purple lipstick, dark mascara, eyeliner, and what have you. Carla appreciatively smiles at Cassandra's handiwork.
"Not bad, you seem to have some sort of a...a penchant for this sorta thing. Huh."
Cassandra lightly smirks and says nothing.
Carla proceeds to explain what other tasks are waiting on Cassandra's plate. She says it all so fast that the Ghoul only manages to catch bits and pieces of it.
By the end of it all, the mortal's breathing is a tad erratic, "You--you need to write any of that down?"
"I think I got the gist of it, yeah. I'll get that stuff from Sven's...room. Anything else?"
Carla lowers her head a little, her cheeks flushing with embarrassment, "Yeah. Can you, uhm...I have a prescription for some uh--uh--meds, let's just say. I need them and I simply don't have the time to...swing by a pharmacy. Could you..." The unease in her voice is palpable.
Cassandra holds out her hand, "Say no more. But you're going to 'ave to compensate me for this. And I don't want American dollars."
Carla's eyes have a twinkle to them when she promises, "I'll pay you back. I--I promise." She fishes around in her purse and finds a piece of paper with that ever-so-familiar doctor's handwriting that- to the untrained eye- resembles scribbling.
While Cass squints at the piece of paper, Carla hastily reassures, "It's--it's totally above-board, OK? Pro--promise."
The Ghoul presses her lips into a thin line and nods. Before leaving, she asks Carla to ensure that Amy gets the best possible seat.
She swears up and down that it'll totally be done.
Prescription and coffee for the mortal, and back to Sven's temporary Haven to retrieve some odd items. This ought to be an interesting night!
Cassandra trudges back to her car, starts it up, and readies herself for what is sure to be a very long and stressful evening. Her petrol is running a bit low. She lets out a frustrated exhale, shakes her head, and sets off.
A part of her is dreading re-entering room 606. Cass can't shake this nagging feeling off that something is about to go sideways real soon. She wipes her brow with the back of her hand, scans the road ahead, and focuses on getting through tonight in 1 piece.
While stuck in traffic, the rain pitter-patters down on the roof of the Lexus. A loud boom of thunder echoes across the heavens, startling the Ghoul a bit.
"Blimey!"
Cassandra stops and gives the Lexus a top-up of ancient plankton juice and decides to check out the nearby convenience store. It is disturbingly bright on the inside and sells many of the necessities of everyday life. People in puffer jackets and beanies are seen milling about and picking up things that they need.
There are "2 for 1" deals on some tea boxes, microwaveable dinners, and different types of crisps- including a few imported ones. Cassandra strolls down an aisle, grabs an energy bar, and pays for it at the checkout counter. She thanks the wheelchair-bound cashier, steps outside, and scarfs it down. It doesn't taste too bad!
The Ghoul tosses the wrapper in the correctly colored bin and gets back on the wet and now somewhat slick roads of Gloughchester. Her teeth clench as she parks outside the hotel where Sven is staying. A shiver runs up her spine when she sees that familiar revolving door.
Her eyes go up to the 6th floor. She gulps and tightens her grip on the steering wheel. Cassandra slowly relaxes her body, shuts her eyes, and quietly counts to 10.
Something in that man's room is just...not right. But it's not something that a semi-mortal like her could possibly put a finger on.
The Ghoul casts a worried glance at the road behind her before locking the Lexus and heading inside the fancy hotel. She slides the card through the lock and opens the door. She stands frozen in place, unable to cross over the threshold of the Baali's temporary dwelling space.
Cassandra collects herself and walks into the room proper. For her, it's like walking from a fully air-conditioned room into a dusty, muggy old street. An acidic (or sulfuric, perhaps) smell penetrates her nostrils.
Feeling disoriented and lightheaded, she almost passes out from the stench alone. She stumbles into the bathroom and splashes her face with some water. The mirror is steamed up for some reason, which is odd.
When she wipes it with her hand, a dark and shadowy figure flashes out of view. Blink and you'll miss it sort of thing. She swallows the lump in her throat and gasps, her lower lip shaking with fear.
The room is still in a mess. Regardless, Cassandra has trouble recalling what it was that Carla wanted her to retrieve from Sven's temporary abode.
The Ghoul paces around in odd circles and snaps her fingers a few times, her eyes narrowed in deep concentration. A snarling noise comes from somewhere inside the suite.
Cassandra stops, her body jerking around as she tries to locate the source of the noise.
"Hello? Anyone there? I--I'm a friend of Sven's, alright? I'm just here to get some stuff of his! I--are you a...err...groupie of his or something?"
Cass can feel the weight of a million eyes staring right into her very being. There is a rustling sound coming from under the bed.
Under the bed- that's where the monsters usually hide.
Cassandra vividly recalls her times as a small child, when she'd be deathly afraid of the rumbling noises that she thought she had heard beneath her bed. She'd sleep with the lights on. Her father would come in and even go to sleep on the rocking chair in her room just to ensure that his daughter felt safe.
Cassandra cautiously moves forward, getting down on her knees. She lets out a shaky breath and moves the bed sheets aside.
She draws back, gulping. She sees what appears to be some kind of sigil drawn in blood on the floor underneath the bed. Her mind goes a little numb.
She starts to hyperventilate. The longer that she's in this room, the more the pressure starts to build up. Those millions of unseen eyes now feel like billions. Or maybe trillions? Cassandra's vision blurs and she falls onto her arse.
Cass picks herself up with a light whimper, hastily grabs whatever she can be bothered to recall, and gets the bloody 'ell out of there! She has a tight and pained look on her face as she heads towards the elevator. Sadly, it closes on her face just before she can slip in.
"Ahhh, COME ON!"
Back in room 606, something stirs. Cassandra hears another menacing snarl. She looks over her shoulder and sees an unusually large arm with talons for nails emerge through the door...which is supposed to be locked.
Something foul and menacing dances across whatever counts as the thin arm's "skin". Cassandra tries to process what she's seeing, but her mind flat-out rejects the image of whatever's emerging out from Sven's room.
A nagging feeling inside her gut tells her that this thing...probably isn't remotely close to being on this world. Not even a little bit. Not even an iota.
There's more sinister snarling, followed by smoke rising through the cracks between the door and its frame. This creature is leaking some kind of black ink or tar that starts to seep into the carpeted floor and towards Cassandra's feet.
She tightly clutches the items and runs down the stairs. Her heart rate is through the roof, and she feels like passing out. She isn't aware of just how many flights of stairs she has descended until she is in the lobby. Sweat streaks down her face, her arms and legs feel like jelly, and her breathing is still a tad erratic.
"What the 'ell was that?" the Ghoul fearfully asks herself, wondering if she's even ready to hear the answers to such a query. The rain outside the hotel continues to come down, coming down even harder now.
She breathes out, tosses the items in the backseat, and drives off. While in traffic, Cassandra spares a glance at the items through the rearview mirror.
There's a paperback novel of some kind (with a badly designed cover). It looks cheap and tacky. There's a scarf that's frayed at the edges, a pair of leather gloves that look like someone chewed them up, a small owl made carved out of wood, and what appears to be an odd-looking trinket.
It looks almost like an antique gold badge, but with sharpened edges and some interesting little details on it. It is not warm to the touch, yet something about it just feels...wrong. Off in a way that even Cassandra can't quite explain. She decides to ignore it for now.
Traffic soon picks up. Along the way back to Sven, she stops by the pharmacy to buy that medicine for Carla- the pharmacist shoots her an odd look, his eyebrow quirked up in mild suspicion. Cassandra just forces a smile and goes along with it.
After doing that, she gets the coffee for the mortal. Spanish latte with oat milk, priced at an outrageous £11.20!
Cassandra places the cup in the holder and drives back to the venue. Her window wipers move rhythmically in tandem with the sound of rain pounding on the roof of the Lexus.
By the time, the Toreador Ghoul returns, Sven appears to be wrapping up. Which is odd, considering that last night's concert went on for a whole lot longer. His movements and overall tone of voice both seem off.
But it's not just because the Baali has been channeling a great deal of Vitae into his Presence Discipline. An unspeakable heaviness seems to be weighing down on the bathrobe-wearing rockstar.
Amy's near the front. Cassandra joins her and plants a quick peck on her cheek. The Baali does a little more talking with the audience, leaving everyone in attendance utterly flabbergasted by what they had just witnessed.
Sven clears his throat, runs a hand through his hair, and says, "I'd like to thank the sponsor of this event. C'mon, people, let's give it up for CODACORP! Do you Brits know what a hip-hip-hooray is?!"
Loud roars and clamors of approval erupt from the audience. Even Amy is excited. Cassandra, on the other hand, winces a little. How ironic that CODACORP can sponsor an event of this magnitude but can't even pay their employees a decent wage; her mind goes back to those Brujah in the Horn 'N' Stag pub.
She remembers how baggy-eyed they were. She recalls how they looked at their work overalls with a measure of disdain.
Sven leads the crowd in cheering for the primary sponsor of tonight's event. After that, he abruptly flashes a victory sign and dips, much to the great disappointment of the audience. They all want more of him. More Sven...
The armed guards step forward and create some distance between the audience and the stage, telling people to calm down.
Sven's dead eyes linger on Cassandra, but not in a baleful manner. He looks...disappointed with her. But why? He shakes his head and briskly walks off the stage.
Cassandra breathes out, tension building up in her shoulders. She squeezes Amy's hand and decides to follow the Baali and (hopefully) get some answers as to what's going on in that hotel suite of his.
"Gonna go and get a breath of fresh air, yeah?"
Amy simply nods and watches as Cass takes off.
The Ghoul moves through the backstage staff and follows after the bathrobe-clad rockstar. Clara is nowhere to be seen. When Cass asks around, she's met with shrugs, groans, and noncommittal grunts.
She sees Sven quickly getting inside an SUV with tinted windows. She catches a glimpse of Clara sitting in the backseat and looking a bit afraid. The car doors close, and the Baali rockstar is seemingly gone. The tires screech as the car drives away at full speed.
A lump forms in Cassandra's throat, but she steels herself.
"DAMMIT! FUCK!" a man's harsh voice causes Cassandra to yelp and jump out of her skin.
He appears to be middle-aged and of a short stature. He sports a short and cropped beard that's starting to go gray. His skin is fair and his eyes are bloodshot.
His suit- shirt included- is black in color. He places his hands on his hips and sharply exhales, not sparing the Ghoul next to him a glance.
Cassandra awkwardly says, "Hiya. Are you...paparazzi? You just missed him."
"Do I look like the fucking paparazzi to you?" he rudely asks while glowering at her.
Without waiting for her to give an answer, he pulls out a flip phone and speedily dials a number. He presses the phone to his ear, turns around, and waits.
"It--it's me. Yes. I'm sorry, I--he got--yes. Understood. OK. Of--of course. Yes, yes, fine." With a shaking hand, he closes the phone and hurriedly rushes out of the area.
Cassandra has a really bad feeling about this. She slowly follows after him, almost bumping into someone in the process. She loudly calls out, "Oi!"
Black suit man hurriedly walks off. Cassandra makes a right and calls out again, "Oi!"
He makes a sharp turn and disappears amongst the sea of clueless groupies and dazed hangers-on. Sven left without shagging them. How inconsiderate!
Many of them are left wondering if their musical idol (and perhaps something more) will come back and do some "schmoozing". There are some vaguely Scottish accents tossed in with the mix of people.
Cassandra paces around the back areas and spots a familiar...head of hair in the slowly declining throng of people. Black suit man is nowhere to be seen.
Marble Cake, the Brujah employee of CODACORP, on the other hand is present. She's dressed in a cobbled together outfit, wearing a fleece vest over a torn half-sleeve shirt. Her checkered skirt flows down to her ankles, and there are some cheap anklets wrapped around her ankles.
A somewhat dejected look adorns her pale features as she prepares to strut out of this place. Her contrasting brown and blonde hair is covered by a beanie with ear flaps. She approaches 1 of the nearby guards, the scowl on her face turning into an awkward smile.
Cassandra calls out, "Marble Cake!"
The Punk turns around, her brows knit together in mild confusion, "What? Who?"
Cassandra earnestly waves out. The Brujah walks over and musters up a smile.
The Ghoul asks, "Didn't expect to see you here, yeah? Is this your kind of music?"
Marble Cake sighs and shrugs indifferently, "Not really. I only popped by because CODACORP employees are entitled to a 15% discount for the most basic tickets. Since we're all nearing poverty wages, I reckoned that I'd drop by and see what our 'skint' employers were blowing their cash on."
She snickers and adds, "Didn't expect him to abruptly leave us hanging. Americans, right? What are you doing here, anyway?"
Cass evasively responds, "Helping out a bit, I suppose. How's Harry?"
"'Arry's doing fine. Same old, same old. Even though he's glad to see the back of your Domitor, he asked about you and, well..."
She takes a moment to properly recall a conversation with her fellow Rebel, "He says that he hopes you're doing well, all things considered."
Cassandra swallows the lump in her throat and smiles, "That's very kind of him. Are you--are you lot spreading stories about what I did--"
Marble Cake chuckles, "We sure are. But in Kindred Society, it's like a game of telephone. Why? You don't like the new reputation that's being built up for you?"
"It's not that. I just did what I had to do, yeah? I--I'm not exactly proud of it."
"Relax, love. What you did doesn't necessarily count as murder- Winston was long gone by the time you brought Final Death upon him. You DO know how Wights work, right? Frenzying--"
"I--I know all that, yeah. I 'ave to get going. Give Harry and the rest of your mates me best, alright?"
Marble Cake nods and grins, "Take care, Cassandra. And be mindful out there, yeah? Be watchful, too." There is a hint of concern in the Punk's tone.
"Y--yeah."
They part ways, with Cassandra lightly squeezing past some people and approaching a random guard. She asks if he knows what Sven's schedule might be or where he may be heading.
He denies having any such information and tells her to beat it.
Cass soon catches up with Amy. A jolt of electricity courses through her body when their hands meet. Amy has that knowing, horny look on her face. They both giggle and find themselves a spot away from prying eyes.
Amy puts her hands on the sides of Cassandra's head and starts to gently make out with her. The Toreador Ghoul places her own hands on her lover's arse and gives it a tender squeeze. Amy runs her fingers through Cassandra's brown hair and plants a line of kisses on her neck.
Cassandra responds by giving the other woman's arse a bit more squeezing and then leans in for another deep kiss. Their tongues twirl around each other and there's even a bit of gentle biting involved.
Muffled moans and smacking sounds can be heard. Cassandra doesn't hesitate to slide her hand up the small of Amy's back.
Amy, meanwhile, tightly holds onto the Ghoul's head, drawing her in even closer. They're both starting to get a little wet.
After a few moments, Amy pulls back and pants. Her chest rises and falls with each and every shaky breath that she takes. Cassandra looks at her and stares into her twinkling eyes.
The Ghoul stammers, "Can we--can we--"
Amy anticipates the query and shakes her head, "Shagging in here? No. But snogging? C'mere, you...!"
The mortal pulls Cassandra in for another round of passionate smooching and heavy petting. Tongues clash up against each other. Amy lets out a moan when Cassandra goes down and lightly bites her neck.
"Oi, no hickies!"
Cassandra titters and draws away. Amy shoves her playfully before they go back to holding hands. They smile at each other while tenderly interlocking their fingers. Amy leans in and gently nudges the tip of Cassandra's nose with her own.
The Ghoul bites her lower lip, "Me offer still stands."
Amy sighs, "I'm afraid I--I can't, sweetie. I don't want...her getting suspicious."
"She has her dalliances too. Isn't that what you once said??"
Amy shakes her head, "No. For all her...flaws, she...has been faithful. Maybe I--I ought to--never mind. I have to go back home now, OK? Please do not text me at odd hours of the night, promise?"
Cassandra wipes the tear away from her eye and sniffles, "Fine. Promise. But we should...get together again, yeah? I enjoyed meself--"
Amy replies, "And I did, too. But we have to pace ourselves out. Goodnight, babe." She blows a kiss, winks, turns on her heel, and starts walking off. While walking away, she puts her ring back on. A look of guilt flashes across her face for a split second before disappearing.
Cassandra gathers her composure and walks in a separate direction. Before she's about to push the exit door open, black suit man accosts her and holds something against her back. It feels round and metallic.
Her stomach drops and her heart is racing.
The guy gruffly says, "Walk straight ahead. There's someone who needs to speak with you...and your Domitor. You're--you're Gregory's Ghoul, aren't you?"
Cassandra gasps, silently wondering to himself how this strange man knows so much. She stiffens up and doesn't say a word.
"Hrrrfh. Fine. 'Ave it your way, then. Don't you dare pull a runner on me like that fucking Demon Worshipper, you hear?"
He pokes her with his silenced pistol and harshly whispers, "Do you understand me, Cassandra?"
She fearfully nods her head up and down.
"Good. Good. Someone is already picking Gregory up. Somebody very important wishes to speak to both of you."
"And who is that?" she timidly squeaks out.
"You'll see soon enough, luv. You'll see soon enough. No use in me spoiling the surprise."
With her hands held up, she is ordered to get into an unremarkable sedan that is parked nearby. Cassandra goes in slowly, followed by black suit man. He doesn't take his eyes off of her for even a second.
He starts the car up and peels out of the venue.
What does this wanker want? And how the 'ell does he know so much?
"Do you mind at least telling me WHERE you're taking me?" Cassandra asks, exhibiting a bit of firmness in her voice that wasn't wholly present beforehand.
Black suit man, who never bothered to put his seat belt on, replies, "No funny business."
For the remainder of the tense ride, he says nothing else. He does give her a look to ensure that her hands are visible at all times.
When they get to their destination, Cassandra blinks and looks outside the water-streaked window. Her mouth hangs agape as she sees an unremarkable office building of some kind. It's only 2 stories tall and connected by an elevated walkway.
The walls are dull, with the light brown paint peeling off. The glass windows have some dust on them and look like they haven't been cleaned in years.
"What is this place?"
Black suit man uses his silenced gun to prod her out of the vehicle. Cassandra obeys, stepping outside and shivering from the cool air hitting her body. With an umbrella in the other hand, he escorts her through a glass door and into an equally bland and underwhelming building.
Their feet scrape against some aged linoleum flooring. The walls are a bland shade of green, with the flickering fluorescent lights providing a touch of illumination. An unpleasant and earthy smell lingers in the air.
They both head to the topmost floor and briskly walk to the farthest room to their right. Black suit man holds the gun up to Cassandra's back while he uses the keycard on his person to unlock the door.
He shoves her inside and orders, "Wait here. No funny business, OK?"
The Ghoul merely nods her head and complies, standing there as still as she can possibly be. She looks around and notes 2 folding metal chairs, a plush maroon office chair, and a somewhat rusted metal table separating the 2 chairs from the other one.
The room is seemingly colder than the hallway itself. Cassandra hugs herself and shivers a bit.
"Brrrr! Blimey!"
After a few minutes, Gregory is shoved into the same room. The Toreador looks oddly composed. His expression is neutral. He looks at the person who brought him in and gives them a slight nod, which is promptly returned by the other party.
Cassandra's voice goes up a few octaves, "Gregory! What's going on here?!"
The Domitor plainly adjusts his sleeves and sits on 1 of the folding metal chairs. He gestures to the one across from him and calmly replies, "Please, Cassandra. Sit. And answer her questions honestly, truthfully, and to the best of your ability. Withhold NOTHING from her."
He repeats himself and emphasizes, "NOTHING. You do that, and there will be no issues. We're not necessarily in trouble, but if she deems us as liars, then things will go...awry. And you don't want that; neither do I. Do you understand, Cassandra?"
The Ghoul gulps loudly and takes her seat. She fidgets and places her hands over her lap. While taking a few deep breaths, the door makes a beeping noise.
Cassandra looks over her shoulder and lets out a small gasp.
Standing at the doorway is a tall and somewhat well-built woman in her early-40s. She has alabaster skin, styled blonde hair, a long neck, and shiny gray eyes. She sports a puff-sleeved blouse, high-waisted pants that hug her wide hips, and suede ankle boots.
The Tzimisce Sheriff of Gloughchester walks to the office chair with her head held a little high. She sits down on it with a practiced poise that exudes an air of authority and grace in equal measures.
She is Welsh by birth, but her accent is plain, generic, and decidedly British. She clasps her cold hands together and regards the 2 individuals seated in front of her with a look that would put even the sternest of schoolmarms to shame.
Gregory clears his throat and begins, "We can explain everything, Sheriff Alice."
Sheriff Alice smirks a little, "I am all ears."
Gregory promptly begins, "Neither me nor my Ghoul had any idea that the Baali rockstar from America by the name of Sven was affiliated with the Sabbat--"
Cassandra explodes, "HE WAS WHAT?!"
Gregory winces a little and shoots his Ghoul a look of exasperation, "Do you mind letting me finish? Please?"
Cass timidly nods and folds her hands over her lap. Sheriff Alice continues looking at her with mild annoyance.
The Toreador divulges certain things, making sure to leave certain other matters out. Why ever he does this is anybody's lucky guess.
Sheriff Alice turns her attention to Cassandra and plainly asks, "And what's your accounting of things, hmm? My sources tell me that you were seen fraternizing with the Demon Worshipper. And what of the nature of these errands that you ran for him. Spare no detail, Ghoul."
Cassandra gawks at Gregory and asks, "Why didn't you TELL me that Sven was with the bloody Sabbat?!"
The Stoker answers on Greg's behalf, "Because he- like you- found out only a few minutes ago. I have been investigating rumors of Sabbat activity in this Domain. You see, when a strange and foreign Kindred of that man's...inclinations suddenly appear on our shores, eyebrows in high places get raised."
Sheriff Alice adds, "We now have reason to suspect the Infernalist. Not everyone approves of a Baali, especially not those of our kind who are still connected to the Church of England. Putting that aside, let us return to the matter at hand, hm? What did that Demon Worshipper say or ask for?"
She sternly warns, "And do not even think of taking liberties with the truth, Ghoul. I can- and will- crosscheck everything that you say here tonight."
Cassandra takes a deep breath, steadies herself, and relays a truthful account of all of her interactions with Sven and Carla. Sheriff Alice raises her eyebrows a bit when Cassandra talks about entering his hotel room- not once but twice- to retrieve some items.
The Tzimisce side-eyes Cass, "You...entered his hotel suite? He was that trusting of you?"
"His assistant/manager was the one who sent me, yeah."
The Sheriff sighs, "Hmm. Yes. Carla. She is a mortal, isn't she? Gregory?"
"Yes, Sheriff. She very much is. It saddens me to know that she's caught up in all of this through no fault of her own."
Sheriff Alice turns her attention to Gregory and presses, "What exactly did this Baali owe you? What is the nature of this favor? Give me the specifics of this arrangement, if you will. I need to know everything, from A to Z."
A look of mild discomfort flashes across the Toreador Domitor's features. He takes a moment to compose himself before requesting, "If you don't mind, this is a conversation that is best held between the 2 of us. My Ghoul needn't be present."
Sheriff Alice narrows her eyes, "And why is that? You deem it acceptable for her to act, speak, and negotiate on your behalf. Oh, yes, I know all about this one's escapades below that pub. Destroying Wights is usually my job, so I'm not exactly complaining. But the Brujah should've informed me--"
She stops mid-sentence and forcefully sighs, "But never mind that. Why is she not privy to the contents of this private discussion, hm?"
Gregory struggles to come up with an answer, "Please, Sheriff..." He trails off and gives Cass a look that may be sympathetic or apologetic. Hard to tell at this point. Cassandra shrinks in her chair, her posture turning slump and weak.
She doesn't like being left out of the loop. Especially if she has to keep risking life and limb on behalf of her immortal master.
The Tzimisce looks at Gregory and agrees with his request, "Very well, then. Ghoul, step outside and wait."
Cassandra is about to say something but thinks better of it when Greg's cold hand touches hers. She swallows the lump in her throat and slowly leaves the room. Before exiting, she looks over her shoulder and gives Gregory a look.
A concerned look that says, "I hope you know what you're doing, mate".
Gregory lowers his head. Once he's confident that his Ghoul is out of earshot, he starts, "He owes me a favor--"
Sheriff Alice holds up her finger. Her brows knit together and she loudly calls out, "No eavesdropping! I can sense your heartbeat! Please don't act so childish, Ghoul!"
Cassandra, who had pressed her ear to the door, jerks back and goes red in the face. She takes a few nervous steps back and waits for something to happen. But nothing does. A sigh of relief escapes her.
The Stoker stares at the Artisan and shakes her head, "You have quite a handful to deal with, don't you? Is the Bond of Blood not strong enough between the 2 of you? Is that why she is lacking in the necessary characteristics of a retainer?"
Gregory questions, "And what exactly would those be?"
"Docility, for starters. You know what I mean by that, don't you? The other expected traits include unquestioning loyalty and obedience. Those 2 should go without saying, Artisan. But I have an inkling as to why she is the way she is. I think that you know why."
"Yes. But that is of no concern to you, Sheriff Alice. With all due respect, I would very much like for us to remain solely on the topic of my favor. How I handle Cassandra is none of your business, is it? I mean no disrespect with what I am saying."
The Sheriff smirks a bit, "I can see where she gets her attitude from. Hm, very well. Now, what exactly is the nature of this favor? Given the way you chased your retainer out of the room, I am inclined to believe that you don't trust her as much as you claim to."
Greg clicks his tongue, "It's not that. I trust her with my very Unlife, Sheriff. But there are things that even she isn't quite prepared to know yet. That is the only reason why I asked her to leave."
The Sheriff doesn't reply to this, choosing instead to calmly eye him and tap her long nails against the metal surface of the desk. This causes a very unpleasant sound to fill the otherwise-empty room.
Gregory clears his throat and shifts his position before continuing, "An Aapilu has been haunting me...for quite a while. A Kindred of your stature al--already knows what that means--"
"I know what exactly that is, Toreador. Go on. How does that American Baali factor into the equation?" The Tzimisce looks at Gregory with more intense scrutiny and crosses her legs.
"The Baali Bloodline has access to the Discipline known as Daimonion. In my desperation to be rid of this Aapilu, I thought that a Baali would be able to summon forth...other entities and then command them to perhaps devour my...my...troubles away."
The Fiend's chuckle is mirth-challenged, "You are aware that such a solution is akin to using a nuclear weapon to deal with a fly? And I am being very charitable when calling your errant thought processes a solution at all. It is, in fact, an immensely foolish plan that could very well warrant some severe disciplinary actions."
She glowers at him and goes on, "Where on Earth did you get the notion to seek help from the Baali? Of all the people whom you've come across, is there nobody else who you could've turned to for help? What about those of your Blood? I heard that you withdrew your application from the Gloughchester Bridge Party. What a pity."
"Sheriff--"
"Ah, ah. What you did was quite stupid. But- believe it or not- it doesn't necessarily count as a Masquerade breach. Ever since you, her, and all the others came from London, you have been exemplary citizens of our Domain. More or less, I must say. You haven't made waves. You have been discreet in your activities."
Sheriff Alice pauses and adjusts her hair a bit, "That's why I'm not going to punish either of you."
Gregory nods, "Thank you. Are--are you going to call a Blood Hunt on Sven?"
The Stoker shakes her head, "No. That would only rile the crowd up and cause a panic. The Prince doesn't desire any of that. I will dispatch my own Ghouls to investigate and apprehend the Demon Worshipper and his mortal associate."
Gregory pleads, "Please refrain from harming Clara--"
"Do not tell me how to go about my duties, Degenerate. Now, please summon your retainer back in here. There are a few more things that I would like to go over with the both of you. After that, you are free to leave."
Greg gets up and dryly summons his Ghoul back inside. Cassandra flashes him a quarter-smile when their eyes meet. A look of sadness crosses Gregory's face but he recovers almost immediately and puts up his neutral front.
Cassandra is sure to bring up every little odd detail that she can recall- from the contents of whatever she was tasked with retrieving from Sven's scary temporary Haven to the sponsor of his rock 'n' roll shows.
When CODACORP is brought up, Sheriff Alice's body involuntarily twitches and her eyes widen slightly. She has to bite her lip to suppress a small gasp.
She quickly gathers her composure and says, "I will speak to my Grandsire about that, worry not. Is there anything else? Ghoul? Toreador?"
Both of them look at each other for confirmation before shaking their heads and confirming that they have nothing left to offer.
Sheriff Alice slides a torn slip of paper to Gregory, "IF anything does come up, call that number and say what needs to be said. Keep it brief and don't call it again, understood? If the matter is of utmost urgency, then don't bother using this number. Find me and we shall speak in-person."
Gregory nods his head and takes the note, "Understood. Cassandra?"
Cassandra squints at the paper and gives a thumbs-up, "Gotcha, Sheriff! I--I won't forget!"
"Tch. You had better not. Now, off you go. Hurry along." With a dismissive wave, she shoos the 2 out of the damp room. As soon as they are out of earshot, she rubs her pale face with her cold hands and lets out a heavy sigh.
Something about CODACORP being possibly wrapped up in all of this has her worried and on edge.
Black suit man drives Greg and Cass back to the venue- that's where the Lexus is still parked at. From there, Cass gets in the car while Greg takes the backseat.
The drive back home is silent and uneventful, but the tension in the air is thick enough to be cut by a serrated knife. The raining has let up by the time they reach.
After parking, Cassandra turns off the ignition and turns over to look into her Domitor's eyes, "Am I...is this how it's going to be from now on? You not trusting me?"
"That was not my intention, Cassandra. There are simply things that you aren't quite prepared to handle. I am not patronizing you when I say this. These matters are highly sensitive."
"I--I can handle meself, Greg. I already proved that, didn't I? I'm not some fragile bauble, alright? Stop treating me like that! And if it's about your past, then why haven't you just told me already?! Why all the shrouds of secrecy and--and--?!"
Gregory's voice takes on a terse and slightly irritated tone, "I am trying to protect you. Please, let us not talk of this again. Tomorrow, you are to see the Children of Osiris in this city. We will speak more of this later. When you have calmed down a little."
He steps out of the car and briskly walks back to his Haven.
Cassandra slams her palms on the car's dashboard, her eyes tearing up. She sniffles and screams to the empty interior. She calms down by gritting her teeth and furiously wiping her tears away with the back of her hand.
As much as she wants to give her Domitor a piece of her mind, the Bond of Blood is keeping the more intense parts of her emotions in check.
After locking the vehicle up, she trudges into her cottage and plops down onto the couch. Cassandra tries to relax, but sleep eludes her at the moment.
She's slowly starting to realize what eternal servitude in exchange for eternal life (or a variant thereof) actually entails. She'll need some time to process it, though.
But she's too deep in it to back out. To reject the Blood of her Domitor would prove to be nothing but fatal. The rapid aging alone would send the Ghoul into shock, assuming that she even survives it at all.
So, in other words, there is no going back for her.
Cassandra spends a few minutes watching whatever the hell's on ITV at this odd hour of the night. When her eyelids grow heavy, she lets out a tired sigh and sluggishly makes her way to bed. She flops facedown onto the covers.
Sleep overtakes her in mere seconds.
Cassandra's snores are slightly muffled. A gentle breeze wafts through her partially open windows, filling her room with the soothing smells of damp earth and grass.
Suddenly, the Toreador Ghoul's eyes snap open. She's standing in a vast and empty space that stretches on for as far as her eyes can see. Her feet aren't touching anything resembling solid ground. A floaty feeling fills her body. It's a strange sensation to say the least.
A familiar sigil of blood begins to draw itself on a wall that popped out of nowhere- it's the same exact sigil seen under the bed in the rockstar's hotel suite. Cassandra blinks a few times. When her eyes readjust to her surroundings, she spots a familiar form coming towards her.
Sven runs a hand through his hair. He's shirtless, proudly displaying his washboard abs and smooth chest for all the world to see. Or Cassandra, as it were.
Cassandra tries to speak, to move, to blink, but it feels as if she's suddenly trapped within the confines of whatever this space is.
Or wherever it is.
The Baali stops a few meters away from her and raises his chin, "So, they found me out, huh? They're onto me now? Shame, I was at least hoping on getting through the week before being forced into hiding again. I hated having to go underground for years on end."
He pauses and smiles at her in a way that is anything but reassuring. His voice is low and soothing when he says, "Don't worry, though. We're in this together. Did you really think that there'd be no consequences for you stepping into my dark sanctum- temporary as it may've been?"
Cassandra can only watch. Sven, on the other hand, is free to roam around this place.
The Baali resumes, "You stepped into my temp Haven- twice! Now, I get a free pass into your mind, girlie. I'm still getting acquainted with this joint. Cassandra's head. The branding opportunities alone..." He trails off. He's enjoying this immensely.
Cass helplessly watches as he paces around her, his footsteps making no sounds on the "ground" below.
"Lemme show you something real quick, OK?" He directs the Ghoul's attention to a distorted image in the distance.
Black suit man- the guy from earlier- is seen entering room 606. A scream is heard but the sound is horribly distorted and warped. Something liquefied seeps through the cracks and under the ajar door. It's partially red in color.
Sven winces and shakes his head, "You should be lucky my...pals didn't do that to you when you went snooping around my suite. Whatever was Clara thinking, huh? For what it's worth, I...uh...I'm sorry if whatever- or whoever- you saw in there caused you any undue stress or trauma or...whatever."
The Baali seems to mean it.
His tone shifts to something a little more sinister, "Still...you should never have entered. And twice! Don't worry, I'll sort Clara out. Not in THAT way, of course. I'm not a--a fuckin' animal!" He laughs heartily and wipes away a bloody tear.
Cassandra's fingers twitch a little.
Sven playfully shoves her. In this trippy space, her body slowly leaves a trail as it is pushed away. She's able to turn her head, though, so that she is looking right into Sven's dead eyes.
"I'm still learning all that there is to about you, Cass. Cassie. So, my pal Gregory has you running around doing...errands on his behalf, huh? Not a bad gig, all things considered. Hey, at least you get a vacation from work for...weeks. Wow. Nice."
He's slowly learning everything. But how did he even manage to intrude her psyche and enter her mind at all? These are the questions that run through Cass's mind right now.
Sven waggles a finger at her, "Ah. Of course. Lemme explain it from the top. Wow, for a Ghoul, you do seem pretty damn knowledgeable about our kind. Most of 'em just wanna fuck, fight, and party all day. But you have an idea of what you got yourself into, huh? Mm-hmm."
He explains, "As Baali, our Bloodline has this Compulsion to Compact with...a Daimonion. A Daimonion. Singular."
But Sven over here got greedy and decided to go for a whole goddamn host of them...including some creatures from the Umbra.
The heartthrob shudders and looks away, "It happened and it can't be taken back now. Heh. Wherever I go, I drag a whole uh...village of entities around with me. Even they need a place to stay. You do know where this is headed, right? Right?"
He fixes her with a look of concern and shrugs, "Hm. OK. And when you stepped into room 606, you kinda set off a couple of alarm bells. Sleeping horrors DO NOT appreciate being disturbed. And if they do, they usually tend to take it out on me. So...yikes."
The Baali points a finger gun at her head and pulls the imaginary trigger, "Boom! Well...nothing so dramatic, haha! But you get the point, right? I'm stuck with 'em forever. And ever and ever and ever. Until fucking Gehenna comes knocking."
Sven snaps his fingers and a doorway appears. Behind it is an abyss of pure nothingness. It looks like it stretches on for infinity, but it also feels like it has no bottom to speak of.
He puts his hand on the terrified Ghoul's shoulder and presses his lips into a thin line, "I can't go back now. I've become addicted to--to the success, the high, the attention, the money, the--the adoration of the crowds, the swooning of the masses, and the afterparties with the groupies."
Sven looks over his shoulder and speaks a little faster, "I can't turn back now. And I--I won't. They won't catch me. And you can tell that hot Tzimisce chick...everything. Like it even makes a fuckin' difference, if I'm being totally honest with ya. And I do intend to be upfront with you. Completely."
The Unholy Kindred grimly concludes, "And we are gonna be seeing each other from now. NOT in that way, of course. You're an intriguing woman, Cassie. I'm gonna poke around this head of yours, see what I can find, and we're gonna have some nice conversations here and there. Don't worry, I'll tune out the...naughty stuff, alright?"
He gives her a playful nudge on the cheek and retracts his hand, "And we'll talk. I won't tell you where I am because I know that you'll just go and blurt it all out to whomever. But I'm inside your head now, so you better get used to me. Alright? Alright."
Before Sven vanishes, he raises a finger, "Those sons of bitches grounded my private jet and killed my pilots. Ah, well, I guess I'm stuck in damp country for the time being. And the monsters under your bed are very real, Cassandra. Very real. Not even your dad sitting opposite your bed on his rocking chair could've saved you from them."
He waves his hand and abruptly disappears, "Ta-ta! Bye-bye!"
Numerous thin hands with talons for fingers begin to pour out of the doorway to nowhere. A chorus of terrifying whispers fill the space. A tidal wave of blackened blood splashes over Cassandra and sends her tumbling through this weird space.
Cassandra wakes up with a horrible wheeze. Her body jerks up from the mattress. The sun now shines through the open windows of her bedroom. There's no sign of an intruder- nobody else in the room save for the Toreador Ghoul herself.
Act 5: Children Of Osiris
"The Osirians aren't a Bloodline in the strictest sense of the word. They are known to accept members of differing Clans and Sects- save for 1. They view themselves as the solution to the Setites. And yes, they have asked me to join. No, I am...comfortable where I am. But I do appreciate the sentiment, nonetheless. They seem to be decent creatures. We get along well and I have even attended some of their ceremonies in the past." -From the personal audio recordings of Gregory | Entry: On The Children Of Osiris.
A new day dawns over Gloughchester. Birds sing their morning songs. The sky is a clear, azure blue with a few clouds in sight.
Cassandra takes a few moments to collect herself before hopping off the bed and going about her daily routine. Disorientation still lingers in her head for a bit but she's able to recover from last night's dreamscape accosting.
She clutches her head and stares at herself in the mirror, "Cor blimey. Am I a--a sight for sore eyes, yeah."
The still-frightened Ghoul squeezes out some toothpaste onto her toothbrush and sets about cleaning her teeth. She gargles some salt water, spits it out, and takes a few more moments to stare at the messy-haired lass looking back at her from the other side of the mirror.
Cass trills her lips and sighs, "Nothing I can't handle. Nothing I can't handle."
After bathing, she steps out of the tub, sopping wet. She slips and almost falls backwards into the basin but manages to catch herself just in time. She lets out a tired huff.
"Bloody 'ell!"
The remainder of the day passes by in a blur. Cassandra swings by the ASDA supermarket, buys some things so she can make a nice home-cooked lunch, and then heads back to her cottage to cook the food up.
She shoots a few texts to Amy while the chopped vegetables are boiling in a pot. Amy texts back and the both of them get to chatting. Time flies by. Cassandra rushes around the kitchen, stirring something else while also checking to see if the food's done yet. The delicious smell fills the air.
Cassandra inhales a lungful of it and sighs contently, "Mm-mmm. Smells bloody scrumptious, innit?"
After taking her lunch, she puts the leftovers in some plastic containers and keeps them in the fridge. From there, she ambles around for a few minutes. By 4 in the afternoon, she decides to take a light nap.
However, an uneasy feeling keeps her awake. It nags at her, asking if Sven will pop out of nowhere again. She glances at the time on her Blackberry phone. The Ghoul lets out a shaky sigh. Who will she tell about this? And she has to tell somebody!
She gulps and feels her stomach churning a bit. Cass takes a deep breath and then exhales.
By the time sleep takes a hold of her, she elects to tell Gregory and Sheriff Alice about this. The former will, hopefully, be understanding. The latter, on the other hand, might not be.
Cassandra soon eases into a restful slumber. The sound of birds chirping fills her ears. The gentle pitter-patter of rain, the soothing smell of the damp earth and grass, and the calming sound of the breeze caressing the trees and blowing through her window brings a certain relief to the napping retainer.
Oh, dear.
Cass is pulled back into the same place, same thing. Sven spreads his arms to either side of his muscular bod and cries out, "Welcome back, Cassie! So, I've been doing some non-invasive prying of your...mind, memories, and personality. You're a pretty fuckin' interesting chick. That's a compliment!"
The Baali spares her a pitiful glance, "Ah, sorry. Hey, for what it's worth, I promise not to perv around or--or creepily creep you out. Believe it or not, but I know boundaries. And I sure as fuck know consent, too.
He chuckles, "And go on. Tell the Sheriff about me. I won't divulge my escape plan to ya- I'm still trying to figure it all out, hahaha! Oh, and by the way..."
Sven suddenly flashes next to her. He leans in closer and ominously whispers, "My real name's not Sven..."
Cassandra is jolted awake once more. The winds outside, the sounds of nature, and the smells permeate her cottage. She wheezes, her chest rising and falling at a quicker pace. She hugs her knees tightly, her eyes darting around the room.
Once she has calmed down, she scrambles through her wardrobe for an outfit. For tonight, it's some Burberry slacks, a plain white blouse, and some rather stylish white loafers. She adds some bangles and jingling earrings on for good measure. A necklace featuring a red gemstone decorates her neck.
Cassandra downs a whole glass of water, wipes her mouth with the back of her hand, and proceeds to do her makeup. Simple pound shop lip gloss and some moisturizer. A touch of green rouge, nothing too fancy.
A green headband secures the top of her hair. She sprays some rose-scented perfumes that Amy had bought for her. Cassandra steps away from the mirror and examines herself.
She struggles to muster a smile. She simply pats the sides of her legs and sighs feebly.
Oddly enough, the Aapilu didn't haunt Gregory prior to his awakening from the day-sleep. It's worse, actually. The creature of the Vitae merely lingers in the darker corners of the Toreador's Haven, watching him in a literal, crawling manner. Cautiously. The thing is slinking around like a patch of icky darkness.
It tilts its head and crouches while Gregory combs his hair. His cold hands are trembling a little. He forces a deep breath to calm himself. The reflection in his mirror reveals a nervous-looking Domitor.
Greg sees the Aapilu from the corner of his eye but can't quite bring himself to look at it directly, let alone confront it. He lifts his chin and marches downstairs to the sitting room. After a minute, Cassandra knocks on his glass door and asks to be let in.
Gregory ushers her in. He notices that she's not her usual bouncy self. However, he doesn't inquire any further. Instead, he opts to sit in his comfy armchair and resume reading a book.
Cassandra squints but can't quite make out what her Domitor's reading. She clears her throat and the other Kindred turns another page, still not looking up.
"Greg..."
The Aesthete sighs and calmly sets the book down on the glass table next to his chair, "Yes?"
He looks up and studies her with a steady gaze, "How are you holding up, Cassandra?"
The Ghoul sharply exhales and plops herself down on the couch, "I'm...I'm fine, yeah. You?"
"Likewise. Are you ready for tonight's undertaking- this one shan't necessarily be dangerous, but caution is advised all the same." Gregory loosens his stiff collar a little bit.
Cassandra clasps her warm hands together and vacantly stares at the ground, "We'll see. I--I have to tell you something. It's about your Baali mate--"
"He is not my 'mate'. Well, not anymore. I do not willingly associate with the Sabbat. Had I perhaps known of his true allegiances, then..." Gregory shakes his head and grunts.
"I saw him."
"What do you mean by that?"
Cassandra steadies herself and tries her best to explain her current predicament, "When--when I was sleeping, he appeared to me. Or...took me somewhere. I--I don't know. It's a bit...hard to explain. But every time I sleep, he told me to expect him."
Gregory nods and steeples his fingers, "Hm. This is a rather disturbing development. And Sven warned you not to breathe a word of this to anyone, didn't he?"
Cass weakly chuckles, "It doesn't matter. He sees what I see. Somehow, he even knows about the Sheriff and the fact that he's wanted."
"Oh. I see. Do you feel comfortable with informing Sheriff Alice, then?"
"I don't 'ave much of a choice, Greg. W--will you come with me?" The pleading is fairly evident in her hazel eyes.
Gregory absentmindedly closes his book and plainly nods, "If that is what you wish. But before we take our leave, I need to bring up a few things."
"Hmph. Yeah. Children of Osiris. I haven't forgotten. So, they owe you? Mind if I ask what exactly for? What kind of a favor are we talking here?" She sits a little straighter and lifts her chin to listen.
The Toreador answers, "This one won't be as risky as you're expecting, worry not. I simply need you to hand over some...goods to the Osirians for transport to locales far and wide. That is all, nothing more."
The retainer lets out a sigh of relief. She relaxes a bit and musters up a look of gratitude, "That's...that's good to hear, yeah. Moving stuff all over the world. What kind of stuff, Greg?"
Gregory rises from his seating and beckons for Cassandra to follow him. While walking to the downstairs basement, he further explains, "These items are mainly symbolic pieces. Sacred, some might say. Decorative, perhaps. Most are intended for Egypt, but some for other lands."
Gregory stops and stares at the fortified door. It's very shiny and made of thick metal. The secure locks can only be operated via 2 passcodes, 1 of which he possesses and the other is committed to Cassandra's memory.
They take their respective positions and enter the code. After a blue light flashes, the thick door hisses open. The Artisan politely gestures for his Ghoul to enter.
Cassandra's eyebrows shoot up as she steps into the cool basement vault. Scores upon scores of art pieces, sculptures, vases, figurines, and art-adjacent objects are neatly organized against the walls.
Every time she enters in here, she is hit by this feeling of awe that hasn't worn off since the first time. It's like a mini art gallery but super awesome. But there is a bit of guilt lurking deep inside her heart. Why are these items just cooped up here in a basement?
Moreover, many of these pieces weren't exactly acquired through wholly ethical means. And a lot of them do actually belong in a public museum for all to see. Not locked up, hidden away, and kept a secret from the general populace.
Gregory has grown rather indifferent over the long years in dealing with, trafficking, and moving such objects of immense value (NOT strictly monetary). One does what one must to survive, even as an immortal predator of the nocturnal hours.
With purpose punctuating his each and every step, Gregory gently walks over to a golden bust and adjusts its position. He runs his pale, long fingers along the smooth texture of the object.
His dead blue eyes linger over the way it shines under the stark white lights above. His lower lip quivers when the world around him goes blurry. His hearing gets a tad muffled.
All he can focus on- at this moment- is the sheen of the golden artifact. The exquisite details. Every single crevice and nook. The impressive manner in which the imperfections are almost entirely unnoticeable.
That's the Toreador Clan Compulsion playing up. Their Obsession renders them unable to take their attention from whatever (or whoever) enraptures them at the moment. And, admittedly, this particular piece of antiquity is quite the stunner!
Cassandra folds her arms and silently watches along; by now, she has gotten quite used to her Domitor's foibles. She tries to follow his gaze so that she too may be enthralled by whatever's gotten her master all stirred up.
Gregory eventually blinks and regains control of his faculties. Yet again, he reaches out and adjusts the position of the bust. He clicks his tongue in mild annoyance, pulls out his large handkerchief, and gingerly wipes the object's surface clean.
He does that 1 more time before moving on, satisfied with the current placement of the golden bust.
Cassandra stifles a chuckle and casually comments, "Wanna talk about it?"
"I--I'm fine, thank you." He turns his head away and gestures to a sizeable wooden crate in the corner of the vault. He lifts the lid and picks up a chunky-looking scarab that's about the size of a child's clenched fist. It's smooth all over. The outer layer feels like it's been polished by expert hands.
Cass inquires, "What exactly is that?"
Gregory inspects it carefully, "It is rumored that the Blood of Set the Antediluvian is held within this particular artifact. Many have fruitlessly attempted to break through the shell in hopes of acquiring such an elusive prize. None have succeeded. I have personally witnessed someone attempting to utilize a diamond drill on this."
He brings it closer to Cassandra's face and traces the scratches that the aforementioned activity left behind, "All they did was mar the beauty of it. Tch. Tasteless savages. They wanted to blow it open, but I managed to convince them not to."
Cassandra pulls back and purses her lips, "Right. What else is in 'ere?" She leans closer to the box and noses about.
The Toreador nods, "Aside from an assortment of pieces acquired over the years, the rest are trinkets. There's even an ancient tome on hieroglyphics. I secured it at an auction for £10,000. And this was long before we even met."
Cassandra exclaims, "Cor blimey! £10,000?! What's that in today's quid?"
"A rather sizable amount, I should imagine."
"Yeah, probably enough to feed a family for a--a few months, maybe?"
"Hm. Yes. Perhaps. Now, is your Lexus clean?"
A little later...
Cassandra is seated across Sheriff Alice. Gregory waits outside this time. Same place as last night. Same room, same seating arrangements, too.
The Tzimisce Sheriff has a hard look on her face. There's a sense of alertness emanating from her. She raises her chin and silently listens to Cassandra's haphazard explanations. The wild gesticulating doesn't exactly help.
Sheriff Alice bluntly interrupts, "Hold up, now. He...is in your mind?"
"N--not exactly, no. He's haunting me--me dreams, more like. I think. Maybe I'll ask him for clarity. Hard to wrap me head 'round it all, innit?"
"Yes, one can only imagine. Relay a message to this Infernalist, if you would be so kind."
Cass nods and licks her lips.
Sheriff Alice reaches into a shoulder holster concealed underneath her suit and produces a pistol that looks like something out of a bloody sci-fi flick. It's sleek, shiny, heavy to hold, and has a scope attached to the top of it.
The Stoker slides her hand canon across the table and presents it to Cassandra. She casually elaborates, "Modified to my specifications. If a Ghoul like you tried to fire it, not even the A&E would be able to bring you back. And mortals would likely lose a vital body part owing to the recoil alone."
Cassandra nervously gulps, "W--why are you telling me all this? What do you want me to tell him?"
"If he sees what you see, then..." The Tzimisce points her gnarly hand canon straight at Cass's forehead and continues, "Let him see what awaits him once he is found. For make no mistake, we shall find him...and destroy him without hesitation."
Sheriff Alice calmly holsters her gun and narrows her eyes at the trembling and shaking Cassie.
"Y--you weren't going to--to shoot me, were you?"
"Have you done anything to warrant such a harsh penalty? No. Keep being an exemplary citizen and I won't have to resort to any violent solutions."
The Sheriff puts in, "And yes, my firearm is very much capable of inflicting Final Death upon Kindred. As for the...others who have been on its receiving end, the term 'mutilated' wouldn't even begin to do their mushy remains justice."
Cassandra's eyes widen to an alarming degree.
Sheriff Alice's expression softens, "I don't say these things to frighten you or to gloat. No. I have to remind you that the Sabbat are monsters. Extremists. The presence- and confirmation- of 1 in my Domain is reason enough for such measures. Drastic as they may seem, they are necessary all the same."
"Uh-huh. Yeah. I'm not a fan of the Sabbat, yeah." Nervousness wracks her body. The words came out faster than Cass would've liked.
Sheriff Alice chuckles slowly, "That's very reassuring. And what will an upright citizen like yourself be doing tonight, hmm?"
Cassandra shrugs, "Helping Greg out. He--"
The Fiend raises a stern finger, "You needn't say more, Ghoul. Do what must be done to uphold the Masquerade- it's a fragile thing in the age of surveillance cameras, smartphones, social media, and the like. Remember this: we aren't the only ones hunting this Infernalist."
"Oh? W--who else is hunting him?"
Sheriff Alice's expression turns far grimmer, "I'm afraid that I cannot divulge such information to a lowly Ghoul such as yourself. If you need to be brought into the loop, so to speak, then you will be brought in. Otherwise, just go about your business as normal."
"Right, right. I can do that, yeah." Cassandra hastily nods and fumbles while standing up and moving to the exit.
On her way out, she runs straight into Gregory, who promptly asks, "Is everything alright? You look like you've seen a ghost."
Cass loudly exclaims, "She pointed her pistol at me!"
Gregory sighs deeply, "Ah, yes. Her modified hand canon. Yes, I've seen it as well. Its destructive properties are unlike anything currently available. Now, come. I'll need to be dropped off at Alistair's Haven before you can go about your tasks for the night."
Cassandra exhales, "Hm. Yeah. Tasks. Let's hope that this doesn't involve any more secret infiltrators or Wights to put down, eh?"
"Hmm. Yes. But you must be prepared for anything."
Gregory takes his place in the backseat of the Lexus and idly watches the city going by in a blur of bright colors, flashing lights, rainfall, and throngs of people seeking to evade the weather.
At a traffic jam, their attention is drawn to a bright sign on the side of a building. Cassandra grunts and slowly edges the car forward.
Gregory's face twists as he stares at the sign in question. It's some kind of advert encouraging people to vote Conservative. There are a few things that Greg strongly despises in this world.
The Thatcher government (and the subsequent horrors that followed) are fairly high up on his list. He despises the Tories with a burning passion befitting of a Toreador. Even till now, he resents the Tories who are the face of austerity, barbaric slashing of welfare, a disregard for the underprivileged, poisoning of the body politic, and the dulling of public consciousness (amongst other things).
That's not to say that fucking Labor is any better- they are, if nothing, the enablers of such horrendousness. Both are equally bad, in his opinion. 2 cheeks of the same arse.
(And don't get him started on the fringe parties like the bloody UKIP. As for the Lib-Dems and Greens, they are essentially non-entities to him.)
Cassandra, more or less, shares the political sentiments of her Domitor. Over the years, she has become somewhat disillusioned with how rapidly to the right Labor has been lurching, making it easy for the Tories to gut the NHS and privatize everything under the sun, moon, and stars.
And the ruthless cutting of benefits (especially disability-adjacent ones) always hurts her greatly. Add to that the foul demonization of benefits claimants, the increasing unemployment, and the concurrent gutting of council houses, and then one has a rather dire situation brewing.
Cassandra puts her foot down on the gas pedal and asks, "Do you still vote, Greg?"
"No. And even if there was anyone to vote for, my identification would undoubtedly incur the wrong kind of attention and raise many an eyebrow."
"Hmm. I--I don't even recognize Labor these days, yeah? Many of me mates barely recognize what it's turning into or--or the direction it's taking. It was shocking when a twat like Tony fucking Blair won. Cor blimey!"
"Yes. But you have to remember 1 thing."
She looks up at the rare view mirror and prompts her Domitor to continue, "Go on."
Gregory pointedly reminds her, "In 2002, Margaret Thatcher- that old axe-faced harridan- unambiguously boasted that it was Tony Blair and New Labor that were her greatest achievements. THAT should've been your wake-up call, Cassandra."
The Ghoul merely nods her head up and down. The remainder of the drive is silent and devoid of conversation.
Alistair lives in a neighborhood where the houses are practically stuck together. Wrought iron gates, flower beds, and big trees line the way. Some have small and modest gardens out in the front. Others have a stone path.
The streetlamps seem to be in good working order. Nice, neat, and tidy. So far.
Cassandra pulls over and watches as Gregory gets out. The rain is slightly harder now. The Toreador opens his umbrella and briskly walks off to his destination.
Once he's inside, Cassandra starts driving towards her next destination. Greg told her everything that she needed to know, nay an iota more than that.
The Ghoul soon finds herself in a spot frequented by uni students- and those who fancy themselves young enough to pass as such. Shops, small venues, clubs, record stores, etc. Most places have a warm and inviting aura emanating from the walls themselves.
Cassandra was instructed to wait at a restaurant with sparse and cozy indoor decorations and comfy wooden furnishings. Varieties upon of varieties of freshly baked cookies are for sale at prices deemed somewhat reasonable. Cassandra peruses through the handwritten menu while waiting for the Osirian named Callum to show up.
Greg merely said, "You'll know him when you see him. And he'll know you when he sees you." When questioned for clarity, Cass only received vague half-answers and dry shrugs from him.
Him speaking cryptically or having that withdrawn (some may say "jaded") attitude is nothing quite new, of course. It's been like that ever since Cassandra started regularly sipping Blood from Gregory's wrists.
After a minute or 2, a young lad in his 20s walks into the establishment. It's like the whole place lights up when he sets foot inside. There is something undeniably familiar and pleasant- almost calming, soothing, or something to that effect- emanating from him.
He has shaggy black hair, porcelain skin, a big nose, sharp green eyes, and a rather lithe frame. His lips are dry and chapped. He politely nods over to the plump lady behind the counter, greets a couple, and makes his way over to Cassandra.
His backpack is lazily flung across a bony shoulder. His clothing consists of a t-shirt that looks way older than him, corduroy trousers, and a patchy open jacket that's more threads than actual cloth. In 1 of the side pockets are dozens of coins rattling together as he sits across her.
Cassandra checks to make sure that he is who he says he is by slowly asking, "Callum?"
The Osirian vampire nods his head and sets his backpack on the floor. He then folds his fingers and stares intensely into the other party's hazel eyes.
Cassandra smiles a little, "Children of Osiris?"
"The very same," Callum responds with a nasally, Scouser accent.
Cassandra's eyes dart around the area briefly. Lively conversations, a mounted telly playing some old footie match, laughter from children in another corner of the joint, servers hurrying and skipping and jumping between customers.
The usual.
Callum looks over his shoulder and chuckles, "Yeah. I usually come here to study. I've been told that their cookies are good. So, you're Gregory's aide, hm?"
"Ghoul."
"Same thing in my eyes. So, you got the stuff?"
Cass nods her head, "It's in a safe place. I was given strict instructions to hand it over to you lot- Greg said that you'd know what it all is, what to do with it, where to move it to, and so on? Right?"
Callum shrugs, "Eh, yeah. Sure. Any reason why the Toreador sent you in his place? Is he busy?"
"Sort of, yeah. I've been authorized to act, speak, and negotiate on his behalf."
Callum seems impressed, "You 'ave? Wow. He must really trust you if he put YOU up for all of that, mate." He smacks his lips, reaches inside a backpack, and procures a worn notebook.
Cassandra stares at it and inquires, "So, you're a student, eh? What do you do?"
The Osirian snickers, "I've been a uni student for the past 15 years. Me graduation's right around the corner- again. So far, nobody's been any the wiser. But the Masquerade's getting quite tricky to uphold in this new decade, I'll tell you that much! And what's your story?"
Cassandra narrows her eyes, "Greg never talked about me with you lot?"
"Nope. Strictly business, that one. But your Domitor is a cordial and understanding man all the same."
"Fair enough. Uh, yeah, I'm his Ghoul and he's me Domitor. There's nothing more to it than that, really."
Callum nods slowly, "Word has been travelling far and wide of a Toreador Ghoul who inflicted Final Death--"
Cassandra groans and completes his sentence, "On a Wight. A Brujah Elder named Winston. Yes. I--I did. No, I'm not exactly proud of destroying him."
Callum regards her with great interest, "How intriguing. Back in my...err...Fledgling nights, I knew of Ghouls who went around destroying Kindred for the usual reasons: fun, sport, a desire to be free of their tyrannical Domitors, to feed their fatal addiction to the Vitae of our kind, and so forth. And yet you've not quite followed your predecessors into that dark and bloody abyss."
"Everybody's different- circumstances, outlooks, situations, preferences. You can't exactly paint in broad strokes and lump all Ghouls into 1 category. Do you want the items or not?"
Callum extends his cold hand, palm facing outward, "Patience. I just want to know more about you. A friendly curiosity, that's all. What do you know of the Osirians, hmm?"
"Quite a bit, actually. You're an interesting lot, actually. You can't Embrace or make any Ghouls because your Blood's been cursed or something like that, yeah? So, you're stuck with mostly recruiting Thin-Bloods, Caitiffs, and other castaways to keep your numbers steady."
Callum's eyebrows shoot up in genuine surprise, "How impressive! You seem to know quite a bit about our Bloodline. Did your Domitor teach you all of this, hm?"
"Eh, not exactly him. But he paid for me lessons. How do you fit into all of this, anyway? What's your role within...you're not a cult, are you? You're not trying to recruit me OR GREG into any sort of weird cult, are ya?"
Callum smiles and plainly says, "Not at all. That's more the Ministry's style. And if you know about the Serpents, then you have a fuller picture of the extent of our...struggles."
Cassandra mumbles, "Yeah, it sounds more like a 1-sided slaughter. How the 'ell are you lot still kicking? How are your Temple leaders- the ones who are on the path to mastering Bardo- able to keep tabs on everything?"
Callum chuckles slowly, "Wow. You know about the Discipline of Bardo, too. We manage? Why? How? Because we have the Light inside of us. The very same Light that the Setites Abhor. And therein lies the source of their hatred for us and all who bear the Blood of Osiris."
He leans closer and asks, "Are you familiar with the old song known as 'This Little Light Of Mine'?"
Cassandra lightly scoffs, "Never went to Sunday School growing up. Or church, for that matter. I'm an atheist. But I've heard of that song in passing. Why? What does it have to do with anything?"
Callum expounds, "Prior to my Embrace, I was of...born into a different persuasion than yours. At school, we'd sing that little song almost daily. Anyways, things change. The world moves on and I...went along for the joyride, you could say. I am now of a different persuasion- in terms of faith and the like- but that little song from my childhood days always comes back to me."
Cassandra tilts her head and follows up, "Yeah? I can see why it comes back. All that talk of light and letting it shine, yeah?"
"Not just any light. But THE Light. The Light that our enemies Abhor..."
He lowers his voice to a whisper, "The Light that is capable of destroying them on the spot. It is said to be as bright as the sun itself."
"Sounds...err..."
Callum leans back and takes a look at the menu. He tosses it aside and shrugs, "Hm. Prices seem to have shot up. Again. Now, you were saying?"
Cassandra gulps and notes, "Sounds a bit destructive, innit? The power to eradicate a whole Clan with...however this 'Light' manifests itself through you lot. Then how are you any better than the Setites so keen on eradicating your kind? It doesn't sound right or fair to me."
She puts in, "I--I mean, I get that you're being hunted down and aren't on a level field here, but still. Trying to eradicate an entire Clan as powerful as the Followers of Set doesn't sound very nice or just, yeah?"
Callum nods, "I will concede that the methodology is flawed in certain aspects. But the goal is noble, nonetheless: erase the devious Typhonists with the very Light that they Abhor. They don't just Abhor bright lights, mind you. The Light within us Osirians is a Final Death sentence for them."
"Cor blimey. It's proper complicated, innit? I dunno, though..."
Callum observes, "You have doubts. It would be my pleasure to illuminate you, Cassandra."
Cassandra softly chuckles, "I'm sure it would. What's your role in all of this? You haven't been a Kindred for that long; so, it's safe to assume that you haven't exactly mastered Bardo like the rest of your counterparts. Right?"
"True. Indeed, I haven't. But you should understand that mastering the Bardo Discipline isn't about memorizing tomes' worth of ancient glyphs and stringing them all together to form incoherent babbles. It's far simpler than that, really."
Cassandra rolls her shoulder, "Oh?"
"Mm-hmm. It's about keeping our Humanity high and denying the Beast within. 'Beasts we are, lest Beasts we become.' Isn't that the common refrain among the other Clans and Bloodlines? For us, it's all about the Light."
Cassandra fixes him with a sympathetic look, "How do you manage? You, what? Don't drink blood from unwilling people? You find other means to--"
Callum vaguely responds, "We have our ways. Our Gangrel friends at this city's zoo are kind enough to provide us with animals which prove to be just as nourishing as human vessels- and far less messy, haha!"
Cassandra concedes, "You've got a good point there, yeah. I suppose that's far more ethical. What if someone- all dazed and confused like- came up and offered their wrist to you? Would you drink from them?"
Callum's smile fades, "You're talking about Blood Dolls, aren't you? Wherein the lines between willing and unwilling become blurred. Hm. Yes. That's an ethical and moral gray area that's riddled with all kinds of pitfalls. It's hard to tell whether they're eager or hopelessly addicted to the Kiss. Eh, for me, it's an absolute 'no.'"
Cassandra queries, "What do you hope to achieve or--or get out of all of this. From what I've learned, you don't seem interested in Golconda or any of that."
Callum clasps his cold hands together, "This is no mere pursuit undertaken for laughs. After all, I myself am planning a pilgrimage to Egypt."
Cassandra's jaw drops, "What? How? Egypt is the heart of Setite territory! How are you planning on sneaking into their Domain, anyway?"
The vampire simply smiles, "The Light of Osiris guides me. It illuminates the path before me. Oh, and I'll be going on foot."
"Not even bicycle?"
"Not even bicycle."
The Toreador Ghoul exhales and remarks, "Cor blimey! And--and no one's forcing you into this, yeah? You're doing this of your own volition?"
Callum's eyes drop to the faded notebook on the table, "Yes. No coercion. My mates at the Temple strongly believe that I am ready for such an undertaking. I am to leave in another few nights. I will have to hunt, seek my own lodgings before the sun rises, and so on. But I have every hope that the journey itself should go well."
Cassandra's brows knit together and she gets a tad concerned, "What are you going to do when- or--or if- you reach Egypt proper?"
The Osirian softly sings, "This little light o' mine, I'm goin' let it shine / Let it shine, let it shine, let it shine / Ev'rywhere I go, I'm goin' let it shine..."
After he finishes singing, he chuckles, "I'm not a wind-up bomb being sent on a 1-way suicide mission. Relax. But I have my sacred duties to carry out."
Cass further queries, "Aren't you worried about attracting attention to yourself? The wrong kind, in particular?"
Callum snickers, "What? 'White boy walking to Egypt from England'? I suppose the tabloids would go mental if they ever caught word of this, hahaha! I, like any other sensible Kindred, uphold the Masquerade. It's the only true thing that binds us and keeps us all together regardless of Clan, Sect affiliation, Bloodline, or Generation."
"Even your arch-nemeses?"
"Even our arch-nemeses."
Cassandra changes the subject, "What are you currently studying these nights, anyway?"
Callum opens his notebook and jabs his thumb at several pages, "Uhhh, economics, a bit of calculus, some art, music, and some psychology on the side. The nights are long...and productive. But my calling is my topmost priority."
Cassandra incredulously asks, "You got time for...ALL of that?"
Callum responds, "You make the time, Cassandra. And it helps that I am now in a position where I'm fully able to fund my own education. I wish that were the case for others who are in my perceived age."
He gazes out the window and lets a shadow of sadness engulf his pale features, "Education, night by passing night, is increasingly becoming a luxury that the offspring of the commoner can no longer afford. Like a lot of other things, it increasingly falls into the purview of the obscenely wealthy."
Cassandra's expression turns morose, "Mm-hmm. All those pointless budget cuts over the past few years. Forcing a lot of kids out into the job market before they're even fully prepared. And there are barely any jobs to--to speak of."
Callum looks at her and nods slowly, "Indeed. Unlike the Ministry which preaches retreat from the world, the Osirians DO contend with the world and its many contradictions. To stiffen one's neck and look away from the current state of affairs would be the height of dishonesty, inhumanity, cruelty, and...laziness."
He adds, "The British Empire might no longer exist in name- but her demise has had grave and far-reaching consequences. And more so for her former subjects than for us. I'll be seeing a lot of it firsthand- I've only read books and seen documentaries. But to see it up-close would be a completely different experience."
Cassandra exhales, "I can tell that you're looking forward to your trip, yeah."
Callum stifles a wince, "Well, I am still a condemned nocturnal predator who forever subsists on the blood of living creatures and has to hide himself from the blazing hot sun. And let's not forget the extreme temperatures, haha!"
"Or the wood. Are you ready for this?"
"Of course, I am. There are just a few more arrangements that need to be made and I shall soon be taking off."
Out of concern for the lad, Cass prods, "You got a--a bag packed? Clothes? Cash? You--you 'ave some sort of a plan, right? You're not making it up as you go along, I--I hope."
"Far from it, Cassandra. Far from it. The Light guides my path, but I'm no fool. I have a competent plan in place. I will have a supply of animal's blood for emergencies, various translation apps installed on my iPhone, trustworthy contacts in the various Domains that I shall be passing through, and...a bit of faith, if you will."
Cassandra bites her lip, "I can't help but get this feeling that all is not as it seems."
Callum shrugs, "It's probably just nerves, then. If anything, I'm more worried about my uni's Egyptology professor."
"What makes him so special?"
"He is...of our Blood, in a way. And a damn good Egyptologist. 1 of the foremost experts in his field. My Temple tasked me with keeping an eye on him. I've done well for this past decade since we met. Or so I'd hope. After I leave, the other Osirians will have to find a suitable replacement to watch over him without drawing any undue attention."
Cassandra scrunches her face and questions, "Why were you tasked with looking after him, anyway? He--he can't take care of himself?"
Callum patiently explains, "The threats against our kind are numerous. Mortals, other Kindred, those werewolves in London, androids, Mages, Wraiths, and so much more. The list hardly ever ends! No offense, but even Ghouls like you have it out for...the Blood, more so than the individual in whose body it resides."
Cassandra blinks and feebly chuckles, "Yeah, I--I suppose so. What makes that particular bloke so bloody special, then?"
"Like I said: he's a damn good Egyptologist. Officially, the Ministry- as a whole- has declared a Blood Hunt for him. He's a virtual pariah and is practically untouchable within the confines of this Domain, thank Osiris. But outside its borders? He's fair game, I'm afraid."
Callum rubs his tired eyes and continues, "Our Temple also feels that he is rather close to uncovering the actual location of Set-Apep's resting place. If we find where the Setite Antediluvian's true resting place is, then maybe we can end things without too much...bloodshed. And maybe then, the Undying King will smile upon us."
A twinkle of hope flicks across his dead eyes.
Cassandra tilts her head and presses her lips into a thin line, "I reckon, yeah. Sounds better than turning the brightness up on a bunch of people- even if they are wankers- and watching them turn into a pile of ash, innit?"
Callum's chuckle is brief, "The desirable outcome, yes. And along the way, I'll help transport some of those valuable goods that your Domitor has entrusted us with."
"Any idea what, why, where, when, and how they'll be used?"
"I know as much as you do, I'm afraid. But I can assure you that they'll be used to bring Light into an increasingly...muddled world. I'd like to confirm that you do indeed have the goods before informing my fellow Osirians. Do you mind showing them to me?"
Cassandra nods and gets up from her seat, "'Course. It's in me Lexus. You mind if I order a few things before we head out?"
Callum equably says, "By all means. I'll wait for you outside." The coins in his pocket jingle when he rises up and leaves the establishment, his notebook tucked securely under his cold arm.
Cassandra licks her lips and decides to order an assortment of cookies- blueberry, choco-chip, red velvet, and drop sugar. She also inquires if any of them contain nuts, because Amy has a nut allergy. The smiling server confirms that none of them do.
After paying with her card, she thanks the server with a broad smile and takes the large bag with her, stepping out onto the wet street.
Callum is on the other side, bending over and dropping a few coins into the chipped tumbler of a homeless boy who's sitting on a small blanket. As Cassandra nears, she picks up on a fragment of their hushed conversation.
"Get yourself a warm place, mate," the vampire gently tells the unhoused mortal.
Out of pity, Cassandra reaches into her bag and gives the poor boy some cookies along with some spare quid, "Here. This should also help for a while."
All the boy does is smile with his broken teeth and nod. The sign next to him reads: "MUTE. Kicked off benefits suddenly :-( Could use some spare £. Bless u."
He timidly waves goodbye and dives into the food as Callum and Cassandra make their way to her parked car.
Cass wipes the tear away from her eye and grimaces, "It's rough out there, innit?"
"Sadly so."
The Ghoul opens the door of her car and ushers the vampire into the backseat. He gets in and settles himself in, wiggling around a fair bit. Given the rain, Cassandra opts to drive to a more secluded locale rather than simply hand the goods off over here. She starts the car and they take off.
Callum stares out the window, an inscrutable look playing on his features. Cass rounds a corner and finds a spot in an underground parking structure that has this bright greenish light, rough concrete walls, a handful of parked cars, and an unusual amount of smoke coming from 1 of the vents on the far side.
She stops, turns the ignition off, and fishes her phone out of her purse. A text from Amy, which simply reads: "Hey, luv. Just came back frm work. Going for a bath now, will b thinking about u throughout :-)"
Cass smiles softly and texts back: "Think about me all u want, sweets <3"
After sending that text, she sends another: "Got some cookies 4 u. No nuts in any of them, promise, I checked. Fancy sharing them sometime soon?"
Amy responds: ":-O sounds like a proper treat! And I would love to do far more than...share cookies with u. Maybe we can 'share' 1 together, eh?"
Cassandra bites her lower lip and texts back: "Well, aren't u cheeky. TTYL, bye!"
"You're just as cheeky, u minx. CYA! MWAH! Kissies!"
Cassandra puts her phone away and looks at the rearview mirror, "Sorry about that. Err...a--a friend of mine."
Callum shrugs, "You owe me no explanation, Cassandra. May I now see the goods?" His tired eyes seem to have rekindled with an uncharacteristic gleam.
Cassandra pops the trunk and steps out into the lit structure; Callum pushes the door open and follows suit. His eyes immediately fall upon a bulky tome with the Eye of Ra on its cover, a black folder containing several pages, and a strange, elongated metallic rod with an ornate jewel at 1 end and several more jewels embedded along the sides.
He picks up the bulky book and begins thumbing through it, softly mumbling something or the other as his look slowly shifts from approving to distressed. His jaw goes a bit slack, too.
Cass squints, "What's wrong?"
"Our...Egyptologist would be over the moon with this stuff, no doubt about it. But it's also concerning. The Setites are said to be developing a new Discipline called 'Corruption'. It's a foul and dark perversion of Presence."
The Osirian mumbles on, "So, the rumors are true, then. This doesn't bode well for...us." His eyes wander from the book to the metallic rod, and then to the folder.
He carefully takes the rod out and gives it a close examination, a small smile slowly creeping across his face. He nods firmly and sets it down before taking the folder into his hands.
He opens it up and begins going through the pages, his face flickering between suspicion, intrigue, and something else entirely. With every page that he flips through, his expression changes accordingly.
Cassandra interrupts his train of thought by asking, "You're OK with acting as couriers for--for all of this stuff?"
While still having his eyes glued to the pages, Callum responds, "Why wouldn't we be? We owe your Domitor greatly? By the way, tell him to pop by our ceremonies sometimes- he knows the addresses very well."
He looks up from his perusal and fixes Cass with a sympathetic look, "And the invitation is cordially extended to you as well. On my behalf. And...no, it doesn't quite involve a lot of spiritual stuff. Also, I have to reiterate this: we're not a cult and we're most certainly not looking to sell you on some...scheme or the other. You can even come by our Temple unaccompanied and be treated just as fairly as you would in any other place."
All the Ghoul can say as way of response is, "I'll think about it, yeah."
Out of concern for the Osirian, Cassandra asks, "You're not the only one who'll be moving this stuff around, right? And it isn't too risky?"
Callum shrugs and turns a page, "The bulk of these goods will be transported in larger caravans where they'll be hidden away amongst more...conventional fare. I'm hardly the only Kindred courier in play. Risks come and go, but the Light illuminates our way and banishes all those who seek to do us harm."
Cassandra raises her eyebrows, "Cor blimey. And it's all over the world? Not just Egypt?"
"Mm-hmm. Us Osirians are everywhere on nights such as these. Worry not, the Light within us- honed by practice of Bardo- is the same Light that our foes greatly Abhor because it would obliterate them on contact. I myself have been trained in harnessing only a fraction of it, so I'm fairly safe from the threats that I shall inevitably come across."
A chill goes down Cassandra's spine as she proceeds to ask, "What about other threats? SI? Non-Ministry Kindred? Garou? Your walking pilgrimage is hardly risk-free, innit?" She winces a bit and looks around the structure.
"Come what may, I shall reach my intended destination with my head still attached to my body. I already told you: I've planned this out. But I do appreciate your concern. It's a sign that your Humanity is intact." Callum's eyes crinkle a bit as he grins.
Cass gesticulates and queries, "Why not just bike over there? It's a lot faster, yeah?"
The Osirian chuckles, "What? Like those YouTubers? Nah. I know another member of ours who decided to drive to Egypt- in her station wagon from the 1950s. The story of her journey is quite riveting. But I've made my choice- I'm walking there. The Blood and the Light are sufficient. And a traveler's card, haha!"
"And she made it there in--in 1 piece?"
"It happened a decade ago- when things were a lot different than they are now. But yes, she's well-adjusted and...back in the comfort of the Gloughchester Temple. By 2020, she plans to do another pilgrimage."
Cass is a bit awestruck, "Wow."
"Yes, indeed!" Callum shuts the black folder and firmly nods.
From there, the 2 of them make small talk and go over a few more things before parting ways. Callum says that he'll get an Uber to his current location through an app installed on his iPhone- quite the resourceful lad!
(One wouldn't want to be a Setite encountering the blinding Light which has been harnessed to obliterate their kind, specifically).
By way of farewell, he tells her, "May the Grand, Resurrected, Undying King illuminate your path and provide clarity like none other in times of uncertainty, doubt, and confusion. May the Light surround you in its bliss. And take care."
At Alistair's Haven...
The interior of the former doctor's 2-storey house is fairly demure and modest. Carpeted flooring, wallpaper from last century, sturdy (but old) wooden furniture, all bathed in a soft amber light.
Alistair is dressed in a long robe of pure black and has a lit pipe hanging from his mouth. He puffs away and asks his fellow Toreador, "So, old boy, how else has everything been on your end?"
Gregory shifts around on his plush armchair and stifles a groan, "The usual. I have Cassandra doing what needs to be done- on my behalf and with my full authorization, of course. So far, she is proving to be quite effective in her work. I tell her only what she needs to know and leave her to it."
"Hmm," Alistair emits some smoke through his nostrils, "She seems like a decent sort. You know, old boy, work has been...depressing as of late."
"I can imagine. All those blasted cuts to our NHS- our crowning jewel. It's a fucking travesty. How are you even holding on?"
Alistair's chuckle is dry, "That's the thing! We're not! You mightn't be privy to this, but maternal mortality rates have shot up! Shot up! In a developed nation like ours! Funding shortfalls, staff shortages, burnouts- all of these contribute to the maternal mortality rates. Ghastly!"
The ex-doctor shudders and fiddles with his pipe, "I see it all, old boy. The baggy eyes of those hard-working nurses- bless their hearts. The doctors whose tempers are getting shorter and shorter than that of a Brujah's and don't even get me started on how we have to go and grovel before this and that vulture for funds."
Gregory sighs deeply, "I can only imagine. These things don't just happen on their own, Alistair..."
Alistair wags a finger at Greg, "I know what you're going to say, old boy. And having seen it all, I wholeheartedly agree with your sober assessment. This is the work of malign agents from all across the ol' political spectrum."
Gregory mumbles, "It's hardly a spectrum when they're all varying flavors of conservativism." He says that last word with unmitigated disgust and contemptuous disdain. His nostrils flare up, too.
For a few moments, a silence lingers along with the acrid, pungent, and smoke-laden air. Gregory gazes up at the wall, where there are several pictures of a black cat.
He breaks the silence by asking, "Alistair? Why the pipe? It does nothing to us either way."
Alistair chuckles feebly, "Call it my Aesthetic Fixation of the week, old boy. I caught glimpse of it on the telly and I...simply had to have it, if you catch my drift. I had to. I like the way it looks, and it certainly smells a lot better!"
He leans closer and taps the side of his nose, "It takes a Toreador to know the struggles of the Blood, don't you agree?"
Greg dryly responds, "Yes. I concur."
Alistair's smile broadens, "Speaking of. You really ought to do some mingling with the other Toreadors here, old boy. What's the worst that could come out of it. Yes, yes, I know- you withdrew your application from the Gloughchester Bridge Party. But that's no excuse to withdraw yourself entirely! Our Clan is a vibrant lot, and our special Coterie finds new purposes in these trying times."
(Gregory is not too fond of many fellow Aesthetes for a mélange of reasons that vary from legitimate to downright petty).
Regardless, he says, "I'll give it some consideration. After coming here from London, I didn't see much of a point in keeping in contact with any of them, aside from a select few exceptions."
Alistair smacks his lips and offers, "Perhaps I can...introduce you to some of the prominent ones in the Toreador social scene?"
"If it's all the same to you, I'd very much prefer to stay away from those exact types. Gloughchester was me- and Cassandra- getting away from the pointless mind games, centuries-old feuds, and powerplays that the others are oft wont to indulge in. The kinds that usually end up with people dying, getting harmed...or worse."
Alistair blows out some smoke and wags his pipe at Gregory, "Right you are! I quite understand what you're talking about, old boy. And in a Domain as London, I can only imagine how intense it all was."
Gregory grimly notes, "But the Garou wiped that all away in mere weeks. Centuries of accumulated power, wealth, and influence all rent asunder by...werewolves."
Alistair sighs and laments, "Oh, great and mighty City of London. Londinium! City of kings, queens, nobles, and commoners alike. Of diplomats, bankers, bureaucrats, emissaries, and those who they're obliged to work with. The City of Villages Where Royalty Lives. Now under the occupation of Gaia's strongest creatures- or so I'm told."
Gregory briefly chuckles at his friend waxing poetic, "All the plays you've attended over the decades have certainly paid off. I can't even remember the last time I attended a play and actually...liked it. The last one I went to failed to rouse my spirits or captivate my attention, sadly."
Alistair slowly sighs, "Ah. I can relate. I myself went through a bit of that ol' dry spell back in the 1990s. But I found ways to reinvigorate the experience- wholly ethical, decent, and somewhat humane measures, for what it's worth."
"I'll...take your word for it."
"Would YOU be interested in those, by any chance? Perhaps something small-scale but not without its fair share of theatrics? Far be it from me, of all people, to push somebody into doing something that they don't want to do."
Gregory gives a tight-lipped smile and says, "Perhaps I'll give it some thought over the coming nights."
Alistair suggests, "And you really should get to know the others around here, old boy. I know that you and Cassandra haven't been around for THAT long, but still. You have to fit in. Eventually. Both you and your faithful Ghoul. She is...devoted to you, isn't she?"
"I believe that she is, yes. Granted, owing to my Generation and my lack of interest in pursuing any Disciplines, I would surmise that my bond with my Ghoul tends to be a bit looser than some other Kindred would like."
Alistair exhales some pungent pipe smoke through his nostrils and blinks. He waves his pipe in a semi-circle and states, "What Generation were you again?"
"12th. Which only, amongst other things, serves to make Embraces virtually impossible, if not downright risky."
"Oh, yes. Of course. As it is, your Blood's Thinned...unless..." Alistair gives his fellow Artisan a cheeky and knowing look.
Gregory shakes his head, "Absolutely not. I have not committed Diablerie. And I don't intend to. My allegiance, since the time of my Embrace, has always been to the Ivory Tower and its Traditions."
Alistair stifles a yawn and changes the topic by asking, "And why don't you want to learn a Discipline, hmm?"
"Because I see it as a waste of time and resources. And I suppose that I lack the motivation for it, or at least so I'm led to believe. For now, there is only 1 thing at the forefront of my mind."
"Hmm? Only 1?"
Gregory plainly nods, "Yes. Getting my affairs in order. And I intend to do it via Cassandra."
Alistair nods understandingly, "Quite an undertaking on her part, isn't it?"
"She is...adequately prepared for what may come her way. Thus far, she has proven herself beyond capable of handling what has come her way- while always remaining humble and cognizant of the fact that she is but a Ghoul within the Camarilla's structure."
Alistair congratulates him, "Splendid, splendid!"
He then puffs his pipe again and says, "I myself have been busy- on many fronts, really. Might I interest you in a wholesome game of bridge tomorrow night? No pressure to join in, of course. Bring your Cassandra along if you wish. She can mingle with the other Ghouls in attendance, haha!"
Gregory narrows an eye and lifts his chin, "What's the worst that could happen at such an event?"
"The worst thing that can happen is losing your temper and violating the Masquerade! The Prince will be in attendance, but we all know that he's harmless as far as Princes go."
Greg grunts softly, "He's a child for god's sake. 16-years-old at the time of his Embrace. What the hell was his Sire thinking?"
The NHS admin leans in closer, looks around, and lowers his voice, "Between you and me, old boy, the Prince doesn't quite run the show in Gloughchester. He may be of our Blood, but our Blood...are the ones with their hands on the actual reins, so to speak."
Alistair holds out his hands, "Anyway! Err...forget I--I said that. Or try not to give it much thought, eh? The point is, whoever has their hands on this Domain's levers and important buttons, they've all kept the peace for this long and have protected us from any major threats."
Gregory sighs harshly, "It still doesn't excuse the fact that a child- forever 16 years of age- runs this city. Your implications are disturbing, to say the least. Why would the real rulers of this Domain have a boy as a figurehead? What purpose does that serve?"
Yet again, Alistair lowers his voice.
His lower lip trembles when he confesses, "The--the real rulers of Gloughchester have eyes and ears everywhere. A simple game of bridge is hardly ever a--a simple game of bridge. Humble invitations from Ancillae like...her can bring out things that one wouldn't otherwise wish to be dragged out."
Gregory's face scrunches in confusion, "What the hell are you on about? What do you mean by 'her'? Who are you referring to?"
Alistair sucks some air in through his teeth and stammers, "Oh--oh dear! Is--is that the time? I have some...err...rounds to complete before sunrise. I'd love to keep chatting, but I'm afraid that this is where we must part ways for the night, o--old boy."
Gregory's brows knit together and he side-eyes Alistair. In a deeply suspicious voice, he says, "Right. Of course. As you wish."
Cassandra's Domitor stands up with a groan and is hastily (but not impolitely) ushered out of the Haven. The moment he steps outside, Alistair bids him a goodnight and shuts the door behind him.
He takes a large breath and pushes his hair back before picking up his pipe again. He brings it to his mouth and shakily takes a puff from it. His entire body starts trembling, and he quickly moves to turn the lights off before scurrying upstairs.
The former doctor pulls the curtain aside and watches Gregory retreating into the distance. He closes his eyes and leans against the window frame, his entire body quaking.
He mumbles to himself, "You could've been a part of the--the inner circle- the true rulers of--of this Domain! Why the hell did you go and withdraw y--your application, old boy? And what does that kind of disrespect spell for not only you but also your Ghoul? They don't tolerate such things!"
Alistair leans closer to the glass, his forced breaths becoming heavier and more pronounced, "The--the real rulers of this city don't take too kindly to people who waste their 'precious' time. And to think that all it takes is--is a few innocuous games of bridge to decide and--and determine this city's fate for--for years to come!"
The NHS admin grabs the windowsill and leans even closer to the glass, the stress (and pressure) of it all driving him quite mad. He knows things. He is privy to information that he'd very much NOT be privy to.
But complicated and vested interests prevent him from divulging such disturbing secrets to every soul (damned or otherwise) that he comes across.
Alistair uneasily takes a puff from his pipe and blows it all out through his nostrils. The former doctor grimaces at the thought of...her (that Ancilla, whoever she is) finding out about what was spoken on this night.
He truly believes that Gregory would be put through the wringer- his words being twisted around until they say something completely different than what was actually said.
Alistair shudders at the very thought and tells himself, "For his sake- and hers, but mainly his- I sincerely hope that the 2 of them NEVER cross paths. Ever!"
After shuffling into bed, Alistair finishes smoking his pipe and grabs a book from his collection. He groans while peering at the cover and internally curses his insatiable need for Aesthetic Fixations.
In the coming weeks, Mister Gregory best be careful about who he knocks around with! He better watch out!
Elsewhere...
A tall building made of reflective glass and steel is illuminated from within by countless electric lights. They emit a harsh glow that lights up the whole interior, allowing those inside to see clearly.
Any acquired schematic or architectural plan would say that this structure- located right in the heart of Gloughchester- has 15 floors. At least that's what most see from the outside. Most folks don't really stop to think that something might be amiss here.
The interior is stark, sleek, and modern. Reflective tiled flooring, leather furniture, glimmering metal decorations, glass panes all over, and digital screens broadcasting news from across the world are amongst the various elements that help define this place's character.
Official records and documentation would say that numerous business (and tech-related enterprises) occupy a vast majority of this particular building. They wouldn't be entirely wrong.
And yet...there's another floor right at the top. A floor invisible to the naked eye. A floor that the Sleepers aren't permitted to see for a myriad of reasons- reasons that they'll never comprehend. 1 of which is the very nature of this "extra" floor.
The 16th floor is fortified, electronically shielded, and inaccessible by any means- mundane or otherwise. Full body scanners are installed on either side of the front door. These scanners ensure that no "undesirables" get in here.
And the multitude of armed security guards and other security measures prevent said intruders from going too farther in.
At a fully air-conditioned control room, rife with bright monitors and sleek panels, a handful of people sit behind rows upon rows of computers. They're all wearing headsets and typing away on their keyboards while streams of data pass by on the screens.
Words are barely exchanged. Eyes scan across the screens and fingers hit the keys at blistering speeds. Anything suspicious is flagged and sent higher up the chain of command for further analysis. 1 thing's for sure- this operation runs like a well-oiled machine.
Captain Mark Meadows stands at the forefront, chin held high, hands clasped behind his straight back. He is dressed in a pair of high-waisted slacks (sans belt), a tucked in shirt, and combat boots. All somewhat professional for a man of his stature.
The leader of this Branch 16 operation looks at the man next to him. He's 30, on the shorter side, balding, has glasses, wears a white dress shirt with an orange tie, and carries a tablet with him. He taps on the tablet, nods to himself, and looks up at the Captain.
Captain Mark looks straight ahead, "Norman. This is...quite the building. 16 floors in a 15-storied structure. You people...frighten me."
Norman softly chuckles, "We are on the same team, Captain Meadows. We want the same thing: the eradication of the blank body threat in the United Kingdom. With you in charge of B16 affairs and me lending support, I'm confident that we'll get the job done."
Mark shakes his head and huffs, "What I'm interested in is results. It's what my superiors are expecting, and I won't let them down. And as far as we are concerned, YOU answer to me, magician--"
Norman politely interjects, "I prefer the term 'Mage'. Calling us magicians is...crass, sir. Not to mention, horribly reductive."
Mark continues, "And I expect to see a report detailing how we're going to neutralize the blank body threat...with your complete cooperation. Do I make myself clear, Mage?"
The Awakened Mage plainly nods, "Crystal, sir. Since you're here, might I raise a small concern with you? A quick and brief one, if I may."
The Captain grits his teeth and looks down at him, "Make it quick."
"Ahem. Yes. The auxiliary guards- Gen4 Security. As it is, we're having issues maintaining...err...Consensus with this many people around. This structure has only 15 floors, yet they walk around on the 16th floor. It's not easy to keep all of their doubts...subdued, so to speak."
"Yes. Your magics strain credulity. What do you propose?"
"Can we perhaps cut down on the Gen4 personnel? Say about 20%"
Captain Mark scoffs, "You've lost your damn mind, Mage. 10%"
Norman scratches his lower lip with his thumb, "Meet halfway through, then? 15%"
Captain Mark stifles a sigh, "Very well. But I trust that the other security protocols we have in place will be...adequate?"
Norman replies, "Above and beyond, sir. Might I ask why you chose these operatives in particular?"
Mark peers down at him, "I am familiar with their operational histories and protocols. And my daughter- Ashleigh- is an employee of theirs. She's always been her own girl, that one. She runs private security for very important persons."
Norman's eyebrows go up, "Ah. A familial connection. Intriguing. Far be it from me to overstep my bounds, but I have to ask: will you let that which is personal get in the way of your stated mission objectives?"
The Captain blinks a few times and glances around, "Operation Brightburn is my life, now, Norman. I live and breathe it day in and day out. Nothing else matters in comparison to that. I've come too far and sacrificed too much to just...make a dent in these...enemies of all that is good, honorable, and decent in our nation."
Norman smiles thinly, "We'll make this city a bastion of safety. Too bad about Birmingham, eh? From what I've gathered, they left you a little present. Impaled with rebar and exsanguinated. My, my. What a sight."
Captain Mark tersely responds, "Our foes have no honor."
The Mage shrugs, "We are here- ready and willing- to assist you. All you need to do is ask and we shall be more than happy to deliver."
Mark assertively nods, "And so shall I. But you don't do this for me personally. You do this for Queen and Country. Do you understand, Mage?"
"We are far more alike than you think, sir. We- of all people- understand what is at stake here."
Mark tells him, "Very good. Indulge me for but a moment, if you please?"
"Yes?"
"Why can't you Mages just snap your fingers and turn all of the blank bodies into ashes. Your powers over reality- disturbing as they may be- are useful in situations like these. What holds you back from taking such a measure?"
Norman nods while bringing up his tablet, "I understand where you're coming from. But reality, more often than not, tends to bite back. Broadly speaking, we refer to that as 'Paradox'. In theory, we could, say cause a worldwide sunrise that would burn every vampire out and about. But the Paradox Backlash would be nothing short of catastrophic."
Mark plainly says, "In other words, your magic has constraints and isn't as all-powerful as it seems."
Norman notes, "True Magick is equal parts art, equal parts science. When in doubt, best not to cast anything lest one accidentally cause...the end of things as we know it."
Captain Mark laughs softly, "If only you could make my job a easier with a snap of your fingers. Then, I would take my retirement and live out the remainder of my days in peace. Buy a farmhouse here, a country house there..."
The Mage chuckles along, "A good reason as any to push for results sooner rather than later. But it's still best to take it all in stride. Oh, a phone call should be coming for you...any...second...now!"
And just as the Captain is about to say something, his secure cell phone starts ringing. It's the kind of ringtone that people would use when they want to be certain that their phone rings. He narrows his eyes, a look of disbelief and confusion asserting itself on his face.
He answers the call and clears his throat, "Hello?"
The stern woman on the end of the line skips the pleasantries and demands, "Situation report, Captain Mark Meadows."
Captain Mark stands straighter, licks his lips, and informs her, "Ma'am! Branch 16 operations successfully up and running on the 16th floor of...err..."
Norman silently mouths, "The Blythe Building."
The leader of the operation continues, "The Blythe Building. We have made contact with the local...Mages and integrated their expertise into our overall security networks. Several leads have already been identified, and we are prioritizing those that may pose the greatest risk to the Royal Family, as per our updated operational protocols."
She continues to be terse and blunt, "Very good. Operation Brightburn has always been your brainchild. As such, we expect results soon. Are we clear?"
"Yes, ma'am."
(Captain Mark Meadows is a very "yes, ma'am!" type of fellow).
He pauses for a moment before asking, "Will there be anything else, ma'am?"
She straightforwardly asks, "Are your assets ready to begin hacking through the phones?"
"We can commence operations at any time, ma'am. Analysts are on standby to go through hours upon hours of voicemails, text messages, and phone calls. Our keyword list has been updated thanks to our primary contact."
"Ah. Him. Keep that one on a short leash, Captain."
Captain Mark sighs a little, "Even now, I--I still do not know how he possesses such vast, intimate, and oddly peculiar information about the blank body threat. He is rather curt with me, ma'am. He won't give me the whole picture. I am--"
She interrupts him, "But his intel has proven valuable in the confirmed killings of numerous blank bodies across the United Kingdom. Results, Captain Meadows. Results. You would do well to remember that."
"Yes, ma'am. I will continue to work with him...and these...Mages."
Norman smiles politely.
Captain Mark walks away to a secluded corner and lowers his voice, "Ma'am, are we sure that such people can be trusted?"
"We wouldn't be working alongside them if we weren't certain about their loyalty to Queen and Country, Captain Meadows. But we do have certain protocols in place. Should they either prove too volatile or outlive their uses to us, then we'll simply terminate their status as an 'ally' and let the rest be handled from there."
Mark asks, "T--targeted assassinations, ma'am?"
"Yes. We have the names of their families, friends, loved ones, lovers, children, grandchildren, close associates...anyone that could be used against them should such measures ever be required."
"Is the integrity of Operation Brightburn being threatened, ma'am?"
"What do you think, Captain?"
Captain Mark looks uncertain and it reflects in his tone, "I still do not trust reality-benders, ma'am. Such powers ought not to be in anybody's hands. The kinds of things that they could do...they--they're at odds with--with EVERYTHING, if you will."
"Hmm. While you raise valid points, we have agreed to enter into this alliance for the good of Queen and Country. Britain needs all the protection it can get. These...Willworkers are a necessary evil, and it's up to us to keep them from getting out of control."
Captain Mark does a low bow even though no one can see him, "As you wish, ma'am. What does B16 leadership have to say about working with these Awakened Mages, ma'am? This...Mr. Norman seems confident in his own abilities."
She answers, "Many of Branch 16's top brass share your concerns about entering into such complex alliances. Over the next few months, we'll convene and meet to determine whether or not these measures were worth taking."
"Very well, ma'am."
"Speaking of measures worth taking, how goes your interrogation of that prisoner?"
"Ah. Him. Even after all these years, he is proving uncooperative. For a blank body, he has a rather high pain threshold. But his mind is--is truly something else, ma'am. I feel guilty every time we have to waste bags and bags of blood on that creature. But the intel which we 'get' out of him has proven to save British lives, ma'am."
"If it proves too much of a budgetary constraint, then you may have to liquidate him."
Captain Mark lifts his chin and asserts, "I shall do so with the utmost pleasure, ma'am. Will that be all?"
"Yes. God save the Queen."
"God save the Queen!" he echoes, putting all of his conviction behind those words.
With that, the call ends. Captain Mark slowly exhales, scrolls through some messages on his phone, smiles faintly, and heads back to Norman. The Mage is swiping his finger across his tablet's screen when he senses that Captain Mark has returned.
"Your call go swimmingly, sir?"
"Yes. Just fine."
"Hmm. For what it's worth, I do very much look forward to working together on a common goal. A rather ambitious one at that."
Captain Mark raises an eyebrow, "Operation Brightburn isn't merely 'ambitious', Mage. It is a necessity. And you will answer to me and only me."
"It's your call, Captain. I trust that my own years of service have been useful to the Crown thus far. What of the boots on the ground? I could provide some from my end, but you were quite reluctant to accept them."
"I stand by my previous statement, Norman. I want MY people to deliver the killing blows. You people are merely the emergency button behind the glass. The glass which, hopefully, shall remain unbroken."
Norman chuckles slowly, "Yes, yes. We have, let me see...1 second..."
He taps on his tablet and brings up dossiers upon dossiers of personnel files to the large screens in front of him. Captain Mark folds his arms and starts scanning through all of this information.
He mumbles, "Ex-SAS, Royal Marines, MI5, MI6...Trojans, all well-seasoned operatives. Yes, my kind of crowd. When they arrive, ensure that they have the best possible lodgings."
(War criminals and scum drenched in innocent blood, the lot of them).
Norman comments, "It shall be done, sir. As a matter of fact, many more from your native Hereford are scheduled to arrive within the next few hours, sir."
"Good. Ensure that they are fully briefed on the situation. I do not want Britain's finest warfighters walking into a situation such as this with subpar intel, got it? Any information pertaining to the blank body threat must be fully disclosed to them. If I hear that you've failed to divulge--"
Norman clicks his tongue, "With all due respect, threats are beneath you, sir. Don't push us around and treat us like your butlers. We know what's at stake here, and we know how to achieve our common mission directives- we are not amateurs at this sort of thing. Like yourself, we were commissioned to serve Her Majesty."
Captain Mark stares straight ahead, "I will be the judge of that. Dismissed."
The Mage glares at the Captain as he turns on his heel and strides off to oversee the operations. Once the Mage is out of sight, Captain Meadows breathes a small sigh of relief and lets his tense shoulders sag ever so slightly.
The forces of the SI are in town. How will the true rulers (tm) of Gloughchester react to the threat posed by Branch 16? Will the existing power structures be shaken up? Merely stirred? Violently destabilized? Something else entirely unforeseen?
Only time will tell!
Cassandra is back in the ever so familiar coziness and comfort of her cabin, the aromatic scents of various outside perfumes from flowers, leaves, fruits, and more wafting about. She dozes off after washing up and changing into a simple pair of loose shorts.
The bra hugs her voluptuous chest just right, though she could go without wearing it. But she was far too tired to unhook it. As Cassandra sleeps, there are all sorts of fantastical images dancing in her dreams.
Uh-oh.
Sven the Baali rockstar (and somehow a member of the Sabbat) invades the Ghoul's psyche by walking out of a wall of moving fog. He's dressed in a half-tucked shirt, designer jeans, and a black leather jacket slung over his shoulder.
He greets her excitedly, "Yo, yo! Miss me? 'Course you did. Reminder: you're gonna be seeing a LOT of me, so you better get used to it now. Alright? Alright. How was your night, Cassie? Oh..."
The Infernalist pauses for dramatic effect and scans the frozen Ghoul's face, "...lemme see. I already know! Hahahahahaha!"
Cassandra is helplessly stuck. Shivers run down her spine as Sven paces a tight circle around her, guffawing and gloating in equal measure. The Baali vampire is very pleased with himself. Despite being on the run from this Domain's authorities.
Sven stops laughing and rubs his palms together, "I can't believe the Sheriff threatened you like that. But damn, is she hot! Is she hot, Cassie? Is she your type? Ah, anyway, let's see...oh you met with some scrawny dude who's gonna walk to...freakin' Egypt! Well, OK. Whatever, I guess."
The area around them is oppressively misty. Sven leaves a small trail behind him as he walks back and forth, casually gesturing with his hands.
A look of sympathy washes over his face, "Oh, poor you. You--you think I'm...bad? A 'posh wanker'? Hey, that kinda hurts my feelings. Look, I'm not bad, OK? In a way, I'm just like you, hopelessly and helplessly addicted to the high. Y'know...the high?"
He asks it in such a way that sends tingles down Cassandra's spine. Sven steps back and grins knowingly.
The Demon Worshipper looks at something over his shoulder and shudders, "And you can say that we're not alike. But I know Ghouls, Cassie. You don't get your sippy-sip and it's game over in the most horrific way imaginable. Damn. Talk about walking a tightrope, huh?"
A high-pitched howl emanates from all over. It sounds like the screeching of a million bats being poked with a billion tiny needles. Sven's eyes widen and he gulps a little.
He hurries up his talking, "I--I'm addicted to the high of...not the Blood, per se. But the success, legions of my adoring fans, the money, the fame, the guys and the gals, the afterparties, the TV appearances, the...music, and...and...the other stuff that comes with being wildly successful. And it's not easy being this good-looking, y'know?"
Sven smirks and puts in, "And oh boy, the amounts of married couples I've had threesomes with. It'd make the most hardened of porn stars blush. So yeah, I'm addicted to the high. Fatally? Hopelessly? Who's to say, hmm? And I've got my...buddies tagging along for the ride..."
Yet again, he fearfully glances over his shoulder, "I gotta go. But I'll be back. Since you're gonna go and complain to Sheriff Alice, tell her to stop trying to find me- she won't. Ever. And let's both hope that she doesn't point that big fuck-off pistol of hers at your face again, yeah? Hahahahahahahahaha!"
Sven takes a few steps back and merges with the fog. Numerous spindly (and slimy) limbs emerge from the ground and make their way towards Cassandra. She can't move, can't scream, can't do anything but watch in abject horror as a bunch of tendrils shoot up and ensnare her.