Title: World Of Darkness - The Tellurian Chronicles
About: "There are more things in Heaven and Earth, Horatio, than are dreamt of in your philosophy." - William Shakespeare | Step into a world unlike our own, a world (paradoxically) like our own. A secretive, hidden world of darkness. What is the God-Machine? Who are the Orpheus Group and what are they up to? Can a dreaded Fomor lead a normal life? What are the Stranded still doing here? How do the Rewired function on a daily basis? All that and much more might (or might not) be answered in this collection of short stories set in the broader nooks, corners, and crannies of the World Of Darkness extended universe.
Writing Start Date: April 17th 2026
Writing End Date: ongoing
By: Paddy
Content/Trigger Warnings: Intense Violence, Blood & Gore, Torture, Strong Language, Slurs, Bigotry/Hate, Racism, Queerphobia, Sexual Content/Scenes, Full & Partial Nudity, Alcohol/Substance Consumption, Smoking, Human & Animal Death, Xenophobia, Ableism, and so on.
Fandoms: World Of Darkness (WOD), Vampire: The Masquerade (VTM), Werewolf: The Apocalypse (WTA), Hunter: The Reckoning (HTR), Wraith: The Oblivion (WTO), Mage: The Ascension (MTA), Orpheus, Demon: The Fallen (DTF), Android: The Rewiring*, Extraterrestrial: The Stranded*
Genre(s): Horror, Urban Fantasy, Drama, Thriller, Intrigue, Action-Adventure, Gothic Punk, Gothic Horror, Supernatural, Tragedy, Magical Realism, Modern Gothic, Political Horror, Social Horror, Economic Horror, Elevated Horror
Inspirations (the main ones, NOT all of them):
WOD: The God-Machine Chronicle Anthology
VTM: Night Road | Out For Blood | Parliament Of Knives | Sins Of The Sires | Coteries Of New York | Shadows Of New York | We Eat Blood And All Our Friends Are Dead | Reckoning Of New York | Walk Among Us
WTA: Earthblood | Heart Of The Forest | Book Of Hungry Names | Purgatory
MTA: Refuge | Melody Through The Mirrorshade Lens | Truth Beyond Paradox
HTR: The Beast of Glenkildove | A Time Of Monsters
Orpheus: Haunting The Dead
...And far too many to list here.
Notes: *Fandoms that exist solely in my head...for now.
S1: Come, Ride With Me
199X
The evening air is heavy with the scent of exhaust and all sorts of other things, too. Amelia inhales deeply as she strolls along the worn path, the sun's last rays casting long shadows behind her.
She had fled the stifling confines of her dingy office and was now walking along a sidewalk that wound through a rundown neighborhood, the cracked pavement and overgrown weeds a stark contrast to the gleaming skyscrapers in the farthest distance.
Amelia is in her late-20s. She sports something of a bob cut and a medium frame. Her brown leather jacket hung loosely over her black t-shirt. The numerous piercings on her face seem to glint in the fading light.
Amelia's dark amber eyes, lined with subtle kohl, scan the desolate streets as if searching for something, or perhaps someone. The soft hum of a nearby motorcycle engine catches her attention, and she quickens her pace, weaving past a graffiti-covered wall and back towards her apartment building.
She knew that it wasn't far, the dilapidated complex rising like a crumbling fortress amidst the urban decay. The engine sound grows louder, and Amelia's heart skips a beat as a sleek black bike with gleaming chrome pipes turns the corner ahead of her.
The rider, a tall, lean-ish figure stopped in front of her and revved the engine a few times before killing the throttle and leaning back in the seat, their eyes locking onto hers with an intensity that made Amelia's skin prickle.
The figure is easily a decade older. An opaque helmet obscured the rider's face. Amelia found herself unable to look away, her pulse quickening as she slowly approached the bike.
Amelia musters a smile but maintains a fairly respectable distance, not wanting to seem overly eager. The helmeted rider's gaze remains affixed on her, unblinking and unnerving. Amelia cleared her throat, trying to think of something witty to say. 
"So...um...enjoying the evening air?" she ventured, attempting a casual tone despite the fluttering in her chest. The helmeted rider's response was a low, gravelly grunt that seemed to rumble from deep within their chest.
Amelia's eyes widened a fraction at the unexpected sound, and she found herself leaning slightly forward, as if drawn in by some unseen force.
"Something like that," the rider responds.
Amelia side-eyes the rider, "You lost...err...mister...?"
The rider lifts a gloved finger and corrects her, "It's miss, actually."
Amelia's eyebrows shot up in surprise at the correction, "Miss, huh? Well, I suppose I should know better than to make assumptions. Uh...sorry."
The rider shifts slightly in the seat, the bike's tires humming softly on the pavement. She keeps her helmet on and jerks her chin in the direction of the towering skyscrapers in the far distance, "I'm going there. Just passing through here. Need a lift?"
Amelia politely smiles and shakes her head from side to side, "Um...no. I'm great, thanks. I've got everything I need right here," she adds with a wave of her hand, as if encompassing the urban landscape stretching out before them.
The helmeted rider regards her for a long moment before giving a curt nod and kicking the bike back to life.
Amelia takes a step back as the engine roars to life. The rider offers, "Last chance before I book it. I could show you things...things somebody like you might never get to experience otherwise."
The helmeted rider's voice carries an unmistakable air of temptation, each word dripping with a seductive promise that seems to caress Amelia's skin. She swallows hard, her heart pounding in her chest as she gazes at the figure before her.
The bike's engine growls, its rumble seemingly vibrating through Amelia's very being, drawing her in with an almost magnetic force. She can feel the weight of the rider's gaze on her; the intensity of her focus is almost akin to a physical touch.
Amelia's mind races, she bites her lower lip while her eyes dart from the rider's helmet to the distant skyscrapers and back again. A thousand-and-one conflicting emotions swirl inside her - fear, excitement, curiosity, and something darker, more primal that she couldn't quite identify in the current moment.
She feels the warm breeze ruffle her hair as the rider revs the engine a few more times.
"I don't have all night. It's now...or never. After this, I'm not coming back to this place. Ever again."
Amelia frowns, "Why?"
The rider shrugs her shoulders, "Reasons. You come with me and you'll find out. No strings, no attachments. Just...an experience. And who knows, maybe you'll even come to like it."
Amelia's breath caught in her throat at the suggestion, the allure of the unknown tingling through her veins. She knows that it's reckless, that she should probably turn and just keep walking.
Yet, she's still here. Frozen and in conversation with a curvaceous, well-built woman on a beast of a bike. Amelia's gaze drifted over the rider's sturdy form, taking in the way her black leather pants hugged her curves.
The rider's presence is both commanding and alluring. Amelia's breath hitched as the rider offered another rev of the engine with a low, rumbling growl emanating soon after.
The vibrations seem to resonate deep within Amelia's core, stirring desires long suppressed by the necessity of survival in this grueling metropolis, in this grueling decade of the 1990s.
Amelia licks her lips and shakily asks, "Is it--will it be...dangerous?"
The rider briefly chuckles, "I won't lie to you. Yes. But I--I'll do my best to keep you safe. You...you have my word on that."
Amelia bites her lip yet again and scratches her bicep, "I don't even know your--your name or how you look. Growing up, my parents gave me the whole talk about 'stranger danger,' y'know?"
"Good point." With that, the rider takes of her full-face helmet and whips her strawberry blonde hair around, revealing a striking face dominated by piercing emerald-green eyes. Her cheeks are a tad hollow, and her fair skin has the odd beauty spot here and there.
Her lips, painted a deep crimson, curve into a sultry smile that seems to silently dare Amelia to take the leap.
"Name's Chloe," she says in that low, gravelly voice.
Amelia sheepishly smiles, "Amelia." She politely extends her hand, waiting for the other woman to greet her, fingers (mentally) crossed in hopes that this peculiar encounter might lead somewhere interesting.
Chloe's grip is firm and Amelia winces at how...the pressure seems to seep into her very bones, as if Chloe is claiming her very essence with that single touch. The sensation sends a shiver down Amelia's spine, her skin tingling with an unfamiliar ache that she's not quite sure how to categorize.
Amelia quickly withdraws her hand and rubs it a few times.
Chloe shakes her head, "What's the problem? Too tight?"
Amelia blurts out, "Y--you're kinda intense, Chloe. I--I mean, no offense or anything."
"Is that a crime?"
"I dunno, is it? Were--were you always like this or does it come with the whole being-a-mysterious-biker-chick territory?"
Chloe rolls a shoulder, "A bit of both. I grew poor up in Utah, so maybe that has something to do with it. Either way, I've learned to adapt and I sorta...got a good thing going on here."
Amelia's mind reels, trying to process the depth of emotion and experience behind those few words, "Sounds like quite the journey. What brings a--a Mormon biker chick like you all the way here, huh? I can't imagine it's for the burritos."
Chloe chuckles, but it's not quite a laugh, "Not all people from Utah are Mormons. Eh, whatever. I'm just in this rust belt city to make a few deliveries." She shakes her head as she swings a leg over the bike and settles into the seat.
Amelia's gaze lingers on Chloe's figure, drinking in the sight of her in that sexy black leather.
"My eyes are up here..."
Amelia lets out a short gasp, "Oh--I--I'm sorry. You--you got good fashion sense. Err--" she stops and struggles to find the right words to utter.
Chloe sighs and lifts her chin, "You don't seem like the type who gets out much, do you? Sheltered existence? Predictable life?"
Amelia shifts her weight around, "Ehh...something like that, yeah. It's just work and home, work and home for me. It's been like that ever since I finished college."
Chloe clasps her gloved hands together, "Oh? I didn't go to college - couldn't afford it. So, what'd you do, huh?"
Amelia smiles in an awkward fashion, "Uh...accounting. Yeah. It--it wasn't Harvard or anything. It was a local place. Now, I do all the books for a family-run business."
She gestures in some vague direction, "They're right around the corner. If--if you need any kind of uh...large-scale...laundry services or something, I can set you up with them. They're pretty legit. But anyway, enough about me."
Chloe smirks, "You seem interesting."
Amelia side-eyes the rider, "Do you say that to everybody you meet or are ya trying to be cute with me?"
Chloe's smirk widens a bit, "Just to the cute ones."
Amelia blushes and turns her head away, fiddling with the hem of her jacket, "Well, you're certainly...direct."
Chloe chuckles, a low, throaty sound that seems to vibrate through the air. "I get that a lot. What can I say? I like to cut through the crap."
Amelia sniffs, "Heh, yeah. And what exactly is it that you do?"
"I told you: I'm here to make a delivery. After that, I'm out."
Amelia remarks, "Doesn't sound like much. Which company do you work for?"
"Never said I did." Chloe leans back on the bike, her emerald-green eyes glinting with amusement as she sizes Amelia up and down.
After a brief pause, she proceeds, "Let's just say that I'm a freelancer...of sorts. I get hired for specific jobs, and when they're done, I get paid and move on."
Amelia frowns, trying to wrap her head around what exactly that entails. She gulps and takes a small step back, wondering to herself if what this biker chick does is...legal.
As if sensing Amelia's skepticism, Chloe snickers, "Relax, it's nothing illegal. I don't move weed around for frat boys or whatever. Let's just say that I'm a jane-of-all-trades kind of gal."
Amelia's eyes widen, "Oh? Like--like what, exactly?"
Chloe shrugs nonchalantly, "Oh, you know, the usual: repairs, maintenance, running errands, cleanup on aisle nine, courier work. A bit of it all, really."
She leans forward, her elbows on the bike's handlebars, her gaze fixed intently on Amelia, "Why, you got some sort of a problem with that?"
Amelia shakes her head quickly, "No, no, no. A--absolutely not. Is--is the money good?"
"What do you think? Is yours good?"
"Pfft, I wish it was. But college grads in a rust belt city don't exactly have much to look forward to in terms of...meaningful employment; hell, to even have this job in the first place was a blessing. But hey, at least I get to work, right?"
Chloe's eyes narrow slightly, her expression unreadable, "'Get to work,' huh? That's...nice, I guess. So, you're really stuck in that dead-end job, huh? They ever give you a raise?"
Amelia lowers her head, her shoulders sagging in defeat, "Nah, not really. I mean, I get coupons for a joint that my boss's brother owns, but that's about it. My boss can be a bit of a tightwad."
She blows out a sigh and goes on, "He's always going on about how we need to pinch pennies and keep expenses down, but his own kids drive some really fancy cars and take very expensive vacations to places I can't really pronounce with a straight face."
Chloe dryly says, "Wow. All the more reason to leave it all behind, right?"
Amelia sucks her teeth. With a slight discomfort lacing her words, she replies, "N--Not exactly. I got...people who I still care about."
"Oh? Like?"
Amelia looks around and takes a step forward. With a lowered voice, she queries, "Y--you're an open-minded kinda person, right?"
Chloe flatly answers, "I'd like to think so, yes. Why?"
Amelia takes a deep breath, "I do...have someone who I care about. We--we're dating, err--sort of."
Chloe smiles a little, "Sounds cute. What's his name?"
"Not his. Her. Her name's Steff. Uh...yeah, I--I'm...different...different like that. We've been together for a couple of years now. It's...complicated, you know? I mean, we're not hiding it or anything, but we don't exactly go around making out in a--a public park or anything."
Chloe strokes her chin, "Hey, relax. I'm different, too. I know that feeling all too well."
Amelia's eyes widen in surprise, "Oh? You mean that--that you're also--also a--"
"Lesbian, yes. Nothing wrong with it. It's who I am and who I'll always be."
Chloe's casual affirmation hangs in the air, punctuated by the whooshing of a passing car. Amelia swallows hard, her mind racing to process this unexpected revelation.
"You...you're saying that you're a lesbian too?" Amelia asks, her voice barely above a whisper. There is some genuine excitement and curiosity in her tone as well.
Chloe shrugs plainly, "'Course."
"Did your family get mad when they found out or--or did you, like, tell them that you--you liked chicks?"
Chloe snorts, "They didn't give a damn. Figured I'd always been a little odd, so when I came out of the closet, they were like, 'Yeah, OK, cool. Whatever.' Twin brother got me this bike, helped fix it up, and I haven't looked back ever since. How 'bout you?"
Amelia smiles slightly, "Yeah, my family is cool with who I am, too. Thankfully. I--I know that there are plenty of people who--who aren't so lucky, y'know?"
"Tell me about it. Listen, I'm on a bit of schedule here. This is gonna be your last chance: are you in or do you wanna keep going through the motions in this rust belt of a city?"
"Will it be, like, a temporary thing or long-term? Also, what ab--about work?"
"If you come with me, you'll be expected to pull your weight. But I'll do my best to take good care of you."
Amelia rubs her hands together, "Sounds...sounds exciting. And what about places to stay?"
Chloe looks up at the sky, "I'm OK with sleeping on the floor - you can get the crappy motel beds all to yourself, heh."
"Oh. Wow. Uhm...OK?"
"Are you in or not?"
Amelia takes a tentative step forward and is about to close the remainder of the gap when she stops and inquires, "And who exactly are we--you--err. Dammit. Who's the employer?"
Chloe chuckles, "A little mystery goes a long way, don't you think? Let's just say it's a job that requires discretion and flexibility. And common sense. Plenty of common sense."
Amelia's brow furrows in thought, her gaze drifting to the cracked sidewalk beneath her shoes, "And what about the life that I--I have here? Steff, work, my friends, bowling on Saturday nights, movie nights, lazy Mondays, all of it?"
Her voice is tinged with a mix of longing and trepidation as she ponders the enormity of the decision before her.
Chloe watches her intently, a small, knowing smile playing on her lips. "Life's full of choices. But if you come with me, promise to listen and not do anything stupid, you won't regret it. You'll see new things, meet new people...and maybe even find a new sense of purpose in this crazy, topsy-turvy world of ours."
She puts in, "Who knows, maybe your Steff will even come around once she sees how happy you are. And hey, if not, well, there's always a chance of finding someone new on the wide roads of America, right?"
Chloe can't help but smirk when mentioning that last part, as if hinting at the possibilities that await Amelia on the open roads.
Amelia's mind races as she weighs the pros and cons, her heart pounding in her chest like an errant jackhammer.
The rustling of leaves in the gentle breeze and the distant hum of traffic seem to fade into the background as Amelia stands there, frozen in contemplation.
She can feel the weight of Chloe's words settling upon her like a physical force, urging her to make a decision that could irrevocably alter the course of her whole, entire life.
Chloe clears her throat, "Thirty seconds or I book it and you never see me again."
A few beads of sweat trickle down Amelia's forehead as the seconds tick by, each one feeling like a dragged out note. She takes a deep, shaky breath, trying to calm the raging turmoil within.
"Twenty-seven..."
Amelia gulps deeply and forces a soft chuckle. She awkwardly averts her gaze, fidgeting with the sleeves of her jacket.
"Twenty-four. Guess I'm gonna be running a bit behind schedule, huh?"
Amelia shyly smirks, "You know, you could probably wait a few more seconds for me to--to make my grand decision."
"Twenty. Maybe I could. But don't make me lurk here all day."
Amelia takes a deep breath and climbs onto the back seat. When commanded, she wraps her arms around the rider's waist and leans in close, her cheek resting against Chloe's back as the bike roars to life beneath them.
The vibrations of the engine reverberate through her body, a primal energy that seemingly synchronizes with the pounding of her own heart.
As they pull away from the curb, Amelia's grip tightens around Chloe's waist.
"We--we'll need to pick up a few things from my place!" Amelia calls out as Chloe picks up the speed. The breeze whips through Amelia's hair, carrying the scent of gasoline and the promise of adventure.
Chloe's body shifts with each turn, guiding the bike through the winding streets of this city. They weave past the familiar sights - the old diner whose burgers are quite big, the park where Amelia used to play as a kid, the liquor store that only opens at night, and so on and so forth and what have you.
Months later...
It has been...a helluva journey. The roads and winding highways hold with it promises, but there are just as many horrifying sights of poverty, backwardness, and utter hopelessness that truly wake one up to harsh reality of life in 1990s America.
Through it all, Amelia and Chloe have grown closer. Closer to the point where Amelia gets to see Chloe naked every so often. The duo ride through sunny towns, crumbling reservations, and vast, booming metropolises.
On the road, on that bike, Amelia's hands would often find their way around Chloe's waist, wrapped around her, tightly. Sometimes a bit too tightly, heh.
The constant rhythm of the engine, the wind whipping through their hair, and the occasional scent of Chloe's perfume or the diesel fumes from passing boxcar trucks certainly made for an interesting olfactory experience.
Amelia would go on to find out what - or more accurately, who - it was that Chloe serves. An entity simply known as the God-Machine would often dole out various tasks for the duo, always with the varying enigmatic purposes in mind.
Layers upon layers upon layers upon layers of secrecy separate the likes of Chloe and Amelia from the God-Machine.
One moment, Chloe and Amelia would be dropping off some random bits and bobs at some office complex in San Francisco. The next, they'd be picking up a bunch of old-ass newspapers from a strange recluse in Flimont City.
Amelia's initial confusion soon gives way to a clarity...of sorts.
Amelia kisses Chloe's cheek and holds on tightly. Chloe has gotten accustomed to the younger woman's...clinginess (for lack of any better terms). She appreciatively smiles, revs her engine and rides off into the sunset, leaving a trail of dust behind them.
Amelia, with her arms still wrapped around Chloe's waist, breathes in the crisp air, feeling a sense of belonging (and purpose) that she's never quite known before.
From urban sprawl to rolling hills and everything in between, these two women serve the will of an intelligence that they cannot even begin to comprehend, let alone challenge.
Amelia's once sheltered existence has been blown wide open, her eyes now seeing the world in a kaleidoscope of reality previously known to her only via documentaries or news reports.
Chloe, ever the enigmatic biker chick from Utah, remains aloof when it comes to her service of the God-Machine.
She merely does as she is told. As long as those hands are wrapped around her waist (even if it is a bit too tight for comfort), she feels that she might just have a chance to make it through this twisted existence unscathed.
S2: How Does Your Garden Grow, How Does Your Code Work?
2024.
When Keith moved all the way from Silicon Valley, USA to London, England, he half-expected the culture shock and the cultural differences would be drastic. To a certain extent, they were.
But they didn't overwhelm him.
Keith spent the first month of his London stay finding his way around the city, exploring the neighborhoods, and settling into his "flat". A lot of the terminology in the birthplace of the English language, from "flat" to "sconce" took a good bit of time to get used to.
As a software engineer, he just had to get away from the increasingly insufferable (and to be blunt, fascistic) "techbro" culture of Silicon Valley.
When a similar job opening popped up, Keith mashed his left mouse button and hastily blasted his résumé, a link to his GitHub repo containing some project samples, and his LinkedIn profile (for good measure) to the relevant party.
He expected to hear back after a good week, but the reply came from the hiring manager almost a fortnight later.
After grabbing his morning coffee (some old habits are rather hard to break), Keith walks down a cobblestone-paved street, his casual Skechers clicking on the stones, his right hand in his pocket.
His dominant hand - his left one - held the coffee cup. He took a swig while walking, which he has become accustomed to doing in the past few weeks that he has been here.
The office is, thankfully, a short-ish walk away from his flat. It saves up on commuting costs and helps Keith get his steps in, if nothing else.
He stops at a boutique store and stares at his reflection in the plate-glass window. Keith has a permanent tan (as a result of a dare involving a tanning machine, of course). He is on the shorter and skinnier side, and his short and scruffy beard is in need of a wee trim.
He ruffles his already-disheveled black hair and adjusts his horn-rimmed glasses (that come with blue light protection). Keith smiles at the binman and heads towards the office.
Mucho later...
Keith blows a sharp raspberry and spins his ergonomic chair, the squeaky wheel causing a brief moment of annoyance. He glances at the time. It's almost time for lunch and his stomach does let out a subtle growl.
He silently thinks to himself, "I wonder where they're gonna take me today? Japanese, maybe?"
A co-worker of his, named Oliver, leans over the cubicle wall. He has a rather plain face dotted with many freckles, auburn hair, and a big nose. He's about Keith's age (late twenties).
Oliver speaks with a slight Irish accent, "Oi, Keith. Loving it so far?"
Keith shrugs and tabs out of whatever he was working on. He looks up at Oliver and smiles a little, "Ah, yeah, yeah. It's definitely a different pace a--around here, y'know?"
A woman's chirpy voice comes from behind, "Are we talking about work, or the city itself?"
The two turn and Keith is met with the sight of a petite woman with short brown hair. There are some streaks of red mixed in. She is wearing a blue blouse, and her blue eyes have a shine to them.
Kat wheels her chair over and peers at Keith's monitor, "So, how is the project treating you?"
Keith forces a tight smile, "It's--it's going great, Kat."
"Oi, Keith!"
A heavyset, dark-skinned man saunters over and claps Keith on the back. He has a decidedly thick working-class accent. Keith can swear that he heard his name being called out as "Keif".
That would be none other than Banji. He's pushing forty but he still has a youthful face and a goofy smile. When he smiles widely, the gap between his front teeth shows.
Banji looks at him with his warm, sympathetic eyes and smiles, "So, how does it feel to be here in London, mate?"
Keith nods, "A breath of fresh air, heh. So, what's...err...what's for lunch today?"
Kat snickers and goes back to her work. Oliver strokes his chin and walks off without saying much else.
Banji rubs his hands together and smirks, "The good stuff - shawarmas. My partner has a few discount codes which they have no need for."
He hollers out, "Oi! My treat today!"
Kat does a light clap while Oliver indifferently stares at the wall.
Keith rubs the base of his neck, "That's...nice of you. Um...thanks."
Banji ventures a guess, "Not used to the whole going out for lunch with your workmates, eh?"
"Yeah. Eh...something like that. Taking a lunchbreak was like committing a sin, heh. Everyone and their dog was on about being on the 'grindset' and maximizing productivity. And optimizing this and that--ughrh."
With some tiredness punctuating his voice, Keith lets out a sharp exhale, "Ah, it's not worth going over again. I chose this job - far away from all that toxicity - to get away from it."
Banji offers, "Well, if you want my humble opinion, mate...you might've made the right choice."
Keith sniffs, "Oh, I sure hope so."
Oliver hums some tune to himself and continues typing away on his mechanical keyboard. His desk is disturbingly cluttered with mementos, knick-knacks, and other personal effects.
It is a complete mess.
On the other hand, Keith's desk is neat and tidy, with nothing more than his computer, wireless keyboard, mouse, and a jar of multicolored licorice.
His ultrawide monitor is elevated by a stack of unused books (courtesy of Kat, bless her). After a few more minutes of intensive coding, Keith takes off his glasses and pinches the bridge of his nose.
"Mm, yeah...I'm ready for some food."
Oliver picks up on that and smiles faintly, "Enjoy yourself."
Keith perches an eyebrow and peeks over the divider, "You're not coming?"
Oliver waves him off with one hand and continues to code with the other. His eyes do not leave the screen for even a moment, "Not much of an eater."
Without bothering to elaborate, Keith's co-worker goes back to work.
Keith, for his part, shrugs and leans back in his chair. It squeaks and lets out a short, shrill squeal. He gets up and walks towards the door, his footsteps echoing on the carpeted flooring.
Kat cranes her neck and comments, "Trying to get your dailies in, hmm?" she holds up her own smartwatch and grins widely.
Keith nods, "Something like that, yeah."
Banji gets up from his seat and invites everyone to gather around, "Oi! Gather around, yeah? Quick pre-lunch meeting, hahaha! Our dear ol' mate here, Keith, is joining us for a bite."
Keith flicks his head in the direction of Oliver and Kat, and the others look up from their work.
Banji gestures for everyone to gather around. Oliver stands ramrod straight, his eyes darting between each of his co-workers.
Keith takes a seat beside Kat and listens to the project manager.
Banji takes a sip of something from a thermos flask and smacks his lips, "Ah, that's the stuff. Don't worry, it's not matcha, hahaha!"
Kat laughs along and shakes her head.
Banji clears his throat and gets more serious, "So, Keith. How's the project coming along, mate? Making good progress, I hope?"
Keith nods, "Mm-hmm. It's...a bit of a mess, but I happen to be good at untangling spaghetti code. Actually, I have a few things that I wanna run by you--" he stops mid-sentence and goes to grab a notebook from his desk.
Keith sits down and pulls out a pen, "Right, so I have a few...doubts. Seeing that you've been working on this longer than I have, could you maybe help me out with a few things? Just, y'know, so I don't fall into any issues down the line."
Oliver remains standing and motions for his American co-worker to ask away.
Keith clears his throat and begins, "So, some of the um...API calls are kinda inconsistent. That's not the only strange part. Refactoring this mess is gonna take a lot longer than the deadline you've set, Banji. N--no offense, by the way. But whoever initially coded this whole thing was kind of...eh...off their rocker."
Kat's eyes narrow, "Wait, so you think the code was written by a drunk programmer?"
Keith mutters, "You won't believe the shit that I saw back in the Valley, Kat. Heh. It's...never mind, it's not something even worth getting riled up about. Well, not anymore."
Oliver jumps in, "What about the people that wrote the documentation?"
Keith sucks some air through his teeth, "Oh, yeah, that. I dunno who wrote that - or what they were smoking - but there is some pretty wacky shit in there. There are some errors in the code that you wouldn't believe. And then there's the documentation...do we know who the original writer was? I haven't seen anyone with that title on the team."
Banji licks his lips, "I'll see what I can dig up. Tell me more about the code? Did you manage to rectify those errors?"
"Some of them, yeah. Not all. There's a ton of them - all over the place. It--it's gonna take us a--a while. Can we uh...request an extension?"
Banji lowers his head and contemplates the software engineer's proposition, "I'll try and pass your request along to Mr. Madoka. Although I wouldn't hold me breath. We're a month-and-a-half away from the release window and this deadline is a tad too tight. We're cutting it close as it is."
Keith lowers his gaze. He knew that this was a slim chance from the get-go, but he had to give it a shot.
Oliver speaks up, "I'm with the newcomer on this, Banj - better safe than sorry. Kat?"
Kat fully concurs with an earnest nod of the head. From there, Keith goes over a few other things and is given rather vague answers to nearly all of his queries.
Keith closes his notebook and looks at his smartwatch, "So...shawarmas..."
Before they can depart, Banji turns his attention to Kat and fixes her with a significant gaze, "Kat. Care to tell us the news for today?"
Keith folds his arms and looks at her, as does Oliver. Kat mainly gets her news from alternative sources and a few underground (not easily accessible) websites, too.
She solemnly nods and starts, "There's talks of new AI regulations. Again."
Oliver snickers, "Aye. Of course. Anything spicier than that?" he gives her a mischievous half-grin.
She nods, "Oh, very much. There are reports of a radical environmental group who have declared war on the water companies - especially Thames Water. They demand a complete renationalization of the water supply, reparations for the victims of the numerous sewage leaks, and...there's another one."
Banji cocks an eyebrow, "Yeah? What?"
Kat looks at him, "They're also demanding the death penalty for the CEOs of the responsible companies. They argue that the CEOs and their cronies are the ones responsible for the pollution of the environment, the contamination of our waters, and the deaths of thousands of people."
Keith's eyebrows shoot up, "Wow. That's uh...definitely radical, heh. What else?"
Kat's face turns grim, "Israel is still committing a genocide in Gaza."
A somber and foreboding silence looms over the group.
Banji frowns, "And Starmer and his mates are doing everything to help. I voted Labor because I was under the impression that they'd be different from those fucking Tories. But the only thing that he seems to be doing is to keep quiet and play along." He balls his hands into fists.
Keith's face darkens, "I can't say that I'm surprised."
Oliver clears his throat, "Well, that's the news for today. Unless Kat here has been spending more time browsing the shadier parts of the Internet and not doing her actual job."
Kat slings a tote bag over her shoulder, "I'd like to see you do better, Oliver. Besides, what's that they say about all work and no play, hmm? Now, if you'll excuse me, I'm off to grab lunch with the boys."
She twirls her fingers, winks at him, and saunters out the door. Banji and Keith follow her to go and grab some scran.
Oliver elaborately stretches himself and goes back to working. He murmurs to himself, "This Jack gets plenty of play..."
The remainder of the weeks drag on; Mr. Madoka graciously extends the deadline, but Keith and the rest of the team are still struggling to get their work in on time.
The majority of this project hangs on Keith's shoulders - he's the one with the relevant coding and programming experience. He certainly has all of that, but it is proving to be quite the Herculean task.
For the past few weeks, Keith has been on a steady diet of caffeine and little else. It's become a regular and routine thing for him to have at least three cups of coffee before work, two cups during, and one after work.
Keith doesn't feel the need to eat. At the recommendation of Kat (the concern was fairly evident on her face), Keith went to the NHS and gets a prescription for some sleeping pills.
The medicine, as it turns out, does alleviate his problems for the first few days, but the effect slowly wears off as Keith builds up some sort of toleration to the medication.
Banji is not a man of many words. He mainly asks if there's anything that the team needs, claps their backs, and frequently takes them out for lunch - all on his dime.
Oliver is a bit of an odd duck, that one. His movements are odd, stiff, and sometimes he gets scared when he sees liquid. There was this weird incident where Keith spilled his coffee onto his desk.
Oliver flinched, hissed, and backed the fuck away from his co-worker's desk. He stared at the spill with a mixture of disgust and fear. Keith has never seen someone's eyes so ridden with such a primal, unadulterated fear before.
Keith doesn't pay it much heed. He is, to use the annoying parlance, "locked-in". He almost develops carpal tunnel syndrome from the intense and frequent typing.
He does occasionally take his eyes off the screen to go and grab some more coffee (usually, he'll guzzle down an entire large cup at once) from the coffeeshop nearby.
On these trips, Kat usually tags along and tells her co-worker about the broader goings on in this world of ours. She claims to have come across evidence of the existence of werewolves in her many Internet adventures.
"I saw numerous claims being made about how werewolves are super-hardcore radical environmentalists!"
Kat is a peculiar lass, she is.
As the project drags on, Keith's behavior starts to border on erratic and unreliable. His many concerns and questions get met with vague and uncertain answers.
At times, Keith would start mumbling to himself, loudly wondering just how in the hell this whole thing even worked.
"It--it makes a function call to--to something that doesn't even EXIST! But when I run it, it runs and I--so it's either a bug, a recurring loop, or something else that doesn't make sense. This whole thing doesn't make sense!"
Oliver's eyes widen as he listens to the software engineer's rant, "Hey, hey. Calm down, pal. You'll give yourself a heart attack."
Keith grunts at the calm and composed guy and goes back to furiously typing away. Kat comes over and snatches a piece of licorice from Keith's jar.
He glowers at her with his baggy, bloodshot eyes.
The uneasy look on her face only deepens, "How are you holding up, Keith?"
He murmurs a barely coherent sentence and goes back to debugging something that has been bothering him for literal days on end.
Kat's concerned expression deepens, "You don't look well." She grabs another licorice and quickly returns to her workstation.
Keith almost stumbles over when he shuffles towards Oliver and starts mouthing off, "I--I sent you a message with the--the code snippet. I really need another pair of eyes on this, man."
Oliver takes a glance at his screen, "Ah, the, uh...yeah, OK. Gimme a second...alright, here it is." He pulls up the aforementioned message, and his lips begin to move while he silently reads the code to himself.
Keith rubs his eyes, "Yeah, that's...that's the one. So? Thoughts?"
"Did you check the indentation?"
Keith clicks his tongue, "Tch. Do I look like a fucking amateur to you?!"
Oliver sighs and shrugs, "Any recurring loops that you might've missed out on?"
Keith gulps and shakes his head, "No. I--I triple-checked. This SHOULDN'T EVEN RUN, yet it does! And the documentation goes against every good and sensible coding practice I know. It's just so..."
Oliver looks at the software engineer, "...out there?"
"Hff. Something like that. How have you people been in business for so long?!"
Oliver chuckles, "Don't bite the hand that feeds you, my American friend. I know that you Yanks tend to do that, but we do things very differently here in the UK."
Keith shakes his head, "Yeah, yeah. Whatever."
After a few minutes, the American software engineer goes back to his desk, a scowl etched on his tired face. From the corner of his eye, he spots Banji sanitizing his hands and walking over.
Keith dryly greets the project manager, "What's up? I--I don't think I'll be able to join you for lunch today. Take Oliver."
Banji looks over his shoulder and Oliver merely shakes his head from side to side. He politely declines. Banji huffs a sigh and squints at Keith's monitor.
"How's it going, mate? The deadline is drawing nigh. No pressure, but I just thought that you ought to know. Mr. Madoka will NOT be extending the deadline again."
Keith snarls, "Then I suggest you go and tell him. This is a goddamn mess! The WHOLE THING should--should just crash, but it just, somehow, works!"
Banji snickers, "It just works. Todd Howard's famous words, huh?"
Keith looks up and gives Banji a wry glare, "I'd take that--that goddamn spaghetti code over this any goddamn day. Seriously, whoever worked on this needs the chair. And what is up with that documentation, huh? It sounds like one of those esolang guys - I had my fair share of those eccentric weirdos back in the States."
Oliver chimes in, "Esoteric programming languages are oddly fascinating, as are the figures behind them. There is some really strange stuff out there, y'know?"
Keith groans and turns his attention back to the code, "So, uh...I need time, man. Not only time to refactor this whole mess from top to bottom but time to also figure out what the fuck is going on."
Banji pats the man's tensed-up shoulder, "I'll...see what I can do. I'm not making any promises, mind you."
Keith calms down a bit, "I--I know that we're on a tight deadline and all, but I can't figure out the root cause of all of this. Like I said: this shouldn't even run! And the fact that it's not throwing up a thousand errors is...is--"
"Something of a miracle," Oliver notes.
Banji's eyes twinkle, "It's a mystery to me, too. Ollie is the one who's extensively read the documentation. He even knew the author, if memory serves correct."
Oliver flinches a little, "I--I do, yes."
Keith shakes his head and takes a few sips of the cold coffee, "Can you maybe help me out a bit? Is--is the author still around? What's their email or--or--"
Oliver trills his lips, "Well, I do have an address, but it's been a wee while since I've spoken to her. And we've never actually met IRL."
Keith sighs and desperately pleads, "Please. We're talking about the most complex piece of code ever created in the history of mankind! I wanna see the person be--behind the curtains! I have to!"
Oliver grimly mutters, "You should be careful what you wish for..."
Both Keith and Banji give the freckled man a look of confusion.
Banji scratches his head, "Just point him in the right direction, Ollie. The sooner that he clears his many concerns and questions, the better for us...and the team as a whole. The deadline is still on, but if you wanna have a goodnight's sleep..."
Keith springs up from his seat and expectantly looks at Oliver.
Oliver is rather reluctant in giving up such contact information, but eventually he caves in. He grabs his brown jacket and motions for Keith to follow him.
The duo now stands in front of a quaint little hut. The surroundings are lush, and it's surrounded by greenery. The sun is starting to set, and the sky is painted a beautiful shade of orange.
The garden is what immediately catches Keith's eye. He sees a mélange of flowers, trees, and other plants that he's never seen before in his life. He is immediately entranced.
Oliver simply looks at the flowers, hums briefly, and places his hand on the eerie-looking doorknocker, which is fashioned into the form of a scarab of sorts.
There is a pause as the duo waits for a reply. Some shuffling noises emanate from deeper within this quaint little structure seemingly in the middle of blooming nowhere.
There is not another house for kilometers on end. And the road that leads here is rather narrow and winding, making it hard for any passing vehicle to be able to spot this place.
Oliver remarks, "Mary likes her privacy."
Keith impatiently looks at his smartwatch, "And I like my sleep. Where is she?" he places his hand on the odd knocker and gives it a good tug before Oliver could even think about stopping him.
"Ah--hello?! Anyone home?!"
The door creaks open and a middle-aged woman pokes her head out. She has stringy, chin-length hair that is graying on the edges, a wrinkly pale face, and sunken, tired-looking amber eyes.
"Who are you and what do you want?" she asks, her voice a bit hoarse and scratchy.
Oliver takes over, "Are you Mary Marks, otherwise known as Seemstress33?"
Mary fixes the two men with a hard glare and sniffs, "Yes. I am. Who is asking?"
Oliver extends his hand, "I go by Oll_Twist. It's finally a pleasure to meet you IRL."
Mary groans and ushers the duo inside. She lazily gestures for them to find a seat amongst all the messy clutter that decorates her abode.
Keith, for his part, is shocked. He has never seen a home like this before - let alone one that is inhabited by a lady of this particular age - he didn't really interact with a diverse group of people back in the USA.
(The Silicon Valley milieu is...ugh).
The trio get to talking. Mary admits that she is not necessarily the original author of the documentation that the team has come to rely upon. She merely inherited the account of Seamstress33 and made some mild tweaks and adjustments in an attempt to make things a little more legible.
"Or a lot less obtuse," Mary grumbles as she swats away a fly buzzing around near her face.
Keith grimaces and sets the cup of tea on the floor, "Is it true that you're the one who's been working on this for years?"
Mary nods, "I have, yes. If you think that the documentation is a drain on your sanity, you should have seen it twenty years ago!" she breaks out into a laugh and her wrinkly cheeks jiggle.
"Twenty years?" Keith asks, his eyes wide with shock.
Oliver interjects, "Makes me feel all old and rusty on me insides, haha! Yeah, this project has been going on for quite a wee while now. Mary, we have a deadline due very soon. And the current coder, Keith, has a few issues with the code. He wants to know if you could perhaps..."
Mary gets up from her sofa and vigorously shakes her head from side to side, "Oh, no, no, no, no. Absolutely not. Nearly drove me over the edge, that selfsame project did. It was a right abomination, it was, I tell you."
Keith rubs his forehead and grumbles, "This was a waste of time. C'mon, Oliver, let's just go. Maybe I should ask ChatGPT or something."
Oliver's face darkens and he shakes his head, "Not a half-bad idea, my friend. Still, we ought to be careful when inputting sensitive data into it. Need I remind you of the NDAs?"
Mary puts in, "Bah! Those blasted AI tools! Normally, I'd be against stooping to such low levels, but I suppose that you lads don't have a choice. Was there anything else? I'd like to get back to my life - which does NOT involve computers of any kind, thank god."
Keith desperately pleads with her, "Is there any kind of insight that--that you have that could help me figure this out?"
Mary plops herself back down on the flower-patterned couch, "I spent the past fifteen years distancing myself from that project - and its dreaded documentation."
Keith exclaims, "FIFTEEN YEARS! Holy shit, when was the documentation last updated, then?!"
Mary shrugs, "Don't look at me like that, young man. I had my reasons."
Keith's lips curl and he shakes his head, "Well, whatever. Oliver? Any other USEFUL leads that you have?"
Oliver shrugs, "That's all I got. Sorry, mate."
Mary gets up and hobbles towards her garden out front. She affectionately coos to some of the flowers and speaks to them gently, a sharp contrast to the curt and gruff voice that she used on the men.
She plucks out a few leaves and tosses them into a wheelbarrow, which is parked nearby. She dusts her hands and takes a deep breath.
Keith shakes his head, "This is insane. None of this makes any sense!"
Oliver's lower lip shifts from side to side, "I...might know somebody else. But I'll have to do it on me own. They're not too keen on...outsiders."
Keith's face scrunches in confusion, "'Outsiders'? I--I don't care - get to the point."
Mary waters a few plants and loudly interjects, "Do you know the reason why I started working for the same damned company that you two are now a part of in the first place?"
Keith turns his attention towards the woman and tilts his head to the side, "Why?"
She dryly gestures to Oliver, "Ask him, love."
Oliver sighs, "I'll tell you all about it on the ride home, Keith."
As the duo take their leave, Mary murmurs, "Yes, yes, hurry along now."
The rest of the days come and go. Oliver, true to his word, went to see this person to clarify a few things about the whole rickety codebase. He merely relayed Keith's detailed, obsessive questions along and returned with a jolly good handful of responses.
The project is slowly but surely crawling towards a satisfactory conclusion. The bagginess around Keith's eyes have been slightly mitigated and he's starting to get back to eating well.
And on and on and on it goes. The day of the deadline comes and goes without much fanfare.
Keith is sitting in his chair and going over the code - again. He's doing what he does best: cleaning up the code, refactoring, making edits and adjustments where needed, and debugging the bugs.
ChatGPT has been a tad helpful, if a bit annoying in aiding the whole process. But at least Keith managed to get the most annoying bugs fixed, thanks in no small part to the enlightening inputs of whomever Oliver's buddy was.
Keith has a long way to go, but he is starting to feel a little confident. The soreness in his neck goes away as he starts getting a bit more comfortable. He is finally getting a taste of victory.
After all those long weeks of being glued to his chair and typing hundreds upon hundreds of lines of code in a single day, Keith is finally starting to feel relieved that this long stretch is coming to an end.
Keith's co-workers - excluding Oliver - celebrate the day of the deadline with a rather lavish dinner at the local Chinese restaurant. Mr. Madoka had to cancel at the last minute, but he sent his best regards to everyone.
Banji has the tendency to drink a bit more than the rest, but his good mood is contagious. Kat shoved a few spring rolls in her bag while Keith absolutely went for the last chicken momo.
As deserts are being served by waitstaff dressed in elegant black suits, Keith queries, "So what exactly is this whole project about, huh? I--I mean, I've been staring at the code for the past few goddamn weeks, but I still have absolutely no freaking idea what it is that we've been working on."
Kat speaks up, "Well, that's the thing. Err...Banj?"
Banji is leaning back in his chair, one of his arms resting on the backrest. He scratches his nose and shrugs, "Mr. Madoka is...rather secretive about the whole thing. And I'd like to take this as an opportunity to remind you of those NDAs you signed, Keith."
Keith's lips purse into a thin line, "Oh, come on, Banji! Throw me a bone here, man! It's not like we're dealing in government secrets, right? Right?" he looks at his co-workers for a hint of reassurance.
Kat smiles a wee bit, "I--I'd hope not. We're not in a spy movie, Keith. Besides, I think what Banji is trying to say is that you should just focus on the project itself and--and not get caught up in all the...y'know, the secrecy and the cloak-and-dagger stuff."
Banji concurs, "She's right, mate. It's not a spy flick. Just--just don't worry too much about it. Oh, by the way...Mr. Madoka wanted me to tell you that you've all been given a slight bonus for all the hard work you've put in, and a job well done."
For some reason, this doesn't sit right with Keith. He keeps his thoughts to himself and holds up his glass. After the obligatory clinking, a few selfies are snapped, and the whole gang gets back to enjoying themselves.
The next few hours are filled with merriment, laughter, and food. Oliver sends his best wishes. His reasons for missing this dinner party make Keith raise an eyebrow in skepticism, but he's too relieved to pry.
The next few weeks are not as intense. Some easy debugging, a bit of effortless refactoring, and a small rewrite of an amateur's codebase.
The days roll by like a conveyor belt.
But, just as things were starting to look good, a few issues came up. That same project - which Keith was hoping would be a distant memory by now - is in need of some more maintenance.
He had to pull an all-nighter to fix a few particularly stubborn bugs that have been reported by Mr. Madoka himself. Odd.
Keith, for his part, is driven up the wall. Old habits and ailments resurface their unsightly heads, and his mental state is quickly deteriorating. It goes to a point where he has something of a mental breakdown one day.
It got so bad that Keith was taken to hospital and he had to spend the whole night being looked after. He was discharged the next day, and he has since been taking sleeping pills like candy.
Banji even firmly tells the man to work from home. Oliver and Kat still go to the office, however.
Keith's arse is on his bed and he's in his jammies. He takes a light sip out of his steaming mug of coffee. It's not strong enough and it's not even his favorite brand.
He looks over the rim of his mug at his laptop, which is placed on a foldable table. He scowls at the device, his eyes bloodshot and heavy.
His fingers fiddle with the mug. Keith tries his best not to think too much about the many lines of code streaming down the screen, but it's rather futile.
He sets the mug aside, blinks rapidly, and leans in closer to his monitor. He peers at the code with a furrowed brow, his eyes twitching with irritation.
He mutters, "I--I can't take this anymore." He slams the lid shut and decides to go and see Mary. Again. This time, he goes alone.
Mary rolls her eyes when she sees the messy sight in front of her, "I ought to put up a sign. What now?"
"We need to talk. And I mean TALK." Keith pushes past her and pulls out a spiral-bound book and a pen.
Mary looks at him, a bit annoyed, and gestures for him to come inside, "What's the meaning of this, young man?"
"I--I had the documentation printed out...that way, we can both get a better look at it."
Mary hobbles over and sits beside him, "Of course you did. Typical American. You lot don't know when to let go of something, hmm? Now, why in the name of all that is decent would I ever want to have a look at that blasted thing again?"
Keith flips through the notebook, "Just...take a look, OK? I--I think that there's more to this than meets the eye. What if--what if this isn't just documentation for some really obscure project, but some sort of a guide on how to build a--a thing?! Like--like a--a--a blueprint, maybe?!"
Mary groans, "I would say that you are a bit mental...or something far less polite. Oh, hell. You already came all this way. Cup of tea?"
Keith vigorously shakes his head and grips Mary's wrist, so as to prevent her from going towards the kitchen, "I--I'm not leaving until we go through this..." the look in his eyes is eerily determined.
"Fine. What would you like to discuss first, love?"
Keith is about to open his mouth, but his words fail him.
Mary catches a glance at how highlighted and scribbled over this book is, and her eyes narrow. She lets out a shrill, humorless laugh, "My god, man! What have you been doing?"
Keith ignores her remark and begins babbling, "So, it--it says here on page fifty that the function Infra_Build_Stage_Null is supposed to call out the other functions on the other pages...but I checked and rechecked."
"And?"
Keith stammers, "They--they don't exist! Literally NONE of the other functions called by Infra_Build_Stage_Null EXIST within the framework. But it--it runs fine. I'm not seeing any runtime errors and I--I haven't been able to get a grasp on what the fuck is going on."
Mary strokes her chin and takes the book from the bewildered (and slightly unhinged) man. Her eyes dart over something before she licks her finger and turns the page.
She looks up and bites her lower lip, "I did make some notes...years ago. I'd have to sift through--"
She gestures to her surroundings and sighs, "--the clutter to find them. Do you mind waiting for a bit?"
Keith's foot goes up and down, "How--how long will that take?"
Mary sniffs, "Depends on how sharp my memory is."
Finding the woman's hastily scrawled notes does little to address the existing questions, but it does unravel some new ones, much to the frustration of Mary's guest.
She gives him a sympathetic look after he rudely declines her offer of scones, "Years ago, I washed my hands off the very same project that you and your friends are now working on. I think you can understand why."
Keith shakily mutters, "I'm still not seeing the correlation. Like, like...there's an array that we reference, right? Here's the kicker: it's NOT EVEN in--in our repository, yet somehow it shows up in the documentation?! How?!"
Mary sighs heavily, "That is the question, my friend. I do have an inkling about a few things--" she stops mid-sentence and gets up to go and see to her garden.
In real time, some of the flowers begin to wilt away, wither, and die. A few plants are either brown or are completely dead by the time Mary gets to them. She shakes her head and goes back inside, a certain heaviness punctuating her every step.
Keith can't take this anymore. He is in dire need of answers.
Mary senses as much and tiredly offers, "That Irish friend of yours. He knows more than he is letting on."
"Really?!"
Before Mary can elaborate, Keith bolts out the door and makes a beeline for it. Soon enough, he's standing in front of Oliver's residence. Keith's co-worker resides on the first floor of a simple-looking apartment building that is starting to show its age in certain areas.
Keith's eyes are wide as saucers as he impatiently pounds on the door, "Open up, OPEN UP, OPEN UP! OLIVER!!!"
Oliver's steps are sluggish and forced, like a marionette on fraying strings. He is dressed in a sleeveless vest, shorts, and a pair of flipflops. He regards Keith with a lazy, almost bored expression.
Keith barges in, not bothering to pay his co-worker any mind, "What the hell is going on, Oliver?"
Oliver puts his hand against the wall, almost like he's gonna keel over at any second, "Oh, Keith. It's you. Come in, make yourself...at home." He sounds so drained and exhausted that Keith's heart sinks in his chest.
Keith plops himself down on the beanbag and demands, "You know MORE. I--I went to see Mary. This project documentation IS DRIVING ME CRAZY!"
Oliver winces and shushes, "Keep your bloody voice down!"
"Hff. The last time I--I had problems, I distinctly remember that YOU were the one who helped me. You had your mysterious friend, the one who's been helping us all along. I wanna know who they are!"
Oliver's eyes glaze over for a moment, "It--it's complicated. I--I can't do that."
Keith angrily rasps, "Well, why the fuck not? I--I mean, you've read the documentation, right?"
Oliver trudges to his kitchen and drags a chair to the living room. He straddles it and weakly nods, "Of course I have. Numerous times. Why?"
Keith licks his chapped lips, "Because the--the more I read it, the more I start to believe that it reads like--like some kind of a manifesto."
Oliver forces a chuckle, but it sounds so grated, "A...what, now? Keith, listen, I am dead tired. If I don't recha--I mean, get my rest, then I'll just--"
Keith's head is bobbing up and down, "Yeah, yeah. You really need to start on coffee, man. Are you even with me?"
Oliver rubs his face and groans, "Hmph. Yeah. Manifesto, eh? I...never thought of it that way. I wonder what..." he trails off and the wheels in his mind seem to turn rather slowly.
Keith sighs and slumps back into the beanbag, "Look, I--I'm going back home, OK? Not until you get straight with me and gimme some fucking answers."
Oliver's smile is lopsided, "What would you like to know first?"
Keith shakes his head and sighs, "How about the identity of the person who managed to answer my questions the first time around, hmm?"
"That's off the table, I'm afraid. I just...I can't. I'm sorry. Next. I--I don't know how long I'll be able to--" Oliver elaborately yawns, winces, and scratches his chin, "--last. My body is running on fumes."
Keith shakes his head and puffs up his cheeks, "It's fine. You don't look tired to me, but sure, whatever. How about I DM my questions to you?"
"That would be lovely, yes."
On the way back, Keith's fingers glide over the touchscreen keyboard. Despite the numerous grammatical mistakes, he sends block after block of DMs to Oliver.
The software engineer is, as usual, incessant. But Oliver is starting to show his wear. He responds with a string of emojis and promises to look into it tomorrow morning.
During the gloomy gray afternoon, Oliver now finds himself walking down a narrow alley. The sluggishness of his steps and the slowness of his mind has seemingly disappeared.
There is a spring in his step, a skip in his step, and a slight but noticeable bounce in his step. He also seems a lot more alert and active than last night.
He walks past a few grimy buildings. A figure comes out from the shadows, dressed in a black hoodie, and stands in front of him. They place their hand on his chest and glare at him.
The figure pulls their hoodie off and inclines their head to the side, "What's the deal now, Ollie?"
Oliver sighs, "Someone at work - the new hire from America - is asking questions about the Pages. I can only hold him off for so long. He's persistent to the point of desperation. What would you have me do?"
The figure smirks, "How would you like to earn a few extra quid for the sake of keeping our little secret...a secret?"
Oliver clicks his tongue, "I'm not murdering an innocent man. Is there no other way?"
The hoodie asks, "Did the American speak to Mary?"
"Yes. Why?"
"This...complicates things. How much did Mary say?"
"He knows a wee bit about the project, the project documentation, and Mary's role in updating it."
The hoodie sighs, "Hmph. That's too much knowledge. In the wrong hands, it could very well be dangerous, Ollie."
Oliver cocks an eyebrow, "I don't have the luxury of time, so you better give me something that doesn't involve violence."
The figure claps back, "We have the SRD breathing down our necks, those blasted werewolves are causing a bloody ruckus, and there are even talks of the vampires wanting to take back their lost territory here in London. The integrity of the Firewall is also under question."
Oliver's face turns grim, "I do this for the same exact reasons you do, but hurting people is where I draw the line."
The figure jabs a finger in Ollie's shoulder, "Your job is to keep him - and the others - from poking their noses in further, yeah?"
Oliver grits his teeth, "Kat and Banji are not a problem. The same can be said for Mr. Madoka."
The person growls lightly, "That's good to know, Ollie."
Oliver has a pensive expression on his face, "I know that look all too well. You're going to take this to the higher-ups, aren't you?"
The figure gravely declares, "We do not have much of a choice. Let them deal with it in a way deemed fit. Just don't shed tears if a certain someone doesn't come home again."
Oliver's eyebrows shoot up, "I'll try me best to steer Keith away, maybe deter him from doing anything too reckless. You know how Americans are. Stubborn, insistent, and...difficult."
The hoodie's chuckle is mirthless and mechanical, "Be that as it may, we are constrained to uphold the cohesion of the Firewall."
Oliver shakes his head and turns on his heel, "Speak for yourself, Compliant."
The person claps back, "You Free-Willers ought to watch yourselves out there. This is not a game, Ollie."
Oliver wordlessly strides away, his back facing the figure.
The hoodie is a bit miffed, "Fine, be that way. Bloody Free-Willer."
Oliver smirks and calls back, "I heard that!"
The days go on. Keith's obsession gets disturbing. Banji has had to step in and warn the software engineer - numerous times - to tone it down a bit.
Keith's sleep schedule is utter shit. He spends most of his days holed up in his flat, staring at his computer screen. Pages from the project documentation are pinned to his wall along with a ton of messy scribblings, notes, and more notes.
The American software engineer has become rather insular. He even wishes he never took this job in the first place. He calls some old pals from the Valley, but they have long since moved on or blocked him.
Kat tries to pop in for a sort of wellness check, but she quickly leaves after Keith starts drooling and mumbling. She leaves a home-cooked meal on his table.
Banji keeps Mr. Madoka in the loop, but there is not much else that can be done to address Keith's slow unraveling. Every time Oliver, Kat, or Banji try to talk to Keith, he steers the conversation in the direction of those damned Pages.
Mary eventually has to file a restraining order. She reluctantly does so but hopes that Keith gets the care that he so desperately needs.
One day, after spending countless hours working and working, Keith suddenly snaps and hastily puts on some clothes. A random DM from an unknown sender claims that they are in possession of the answers to his many, many questions.
He slips into a long coat and puts on some boots. His appearance is extremely disheveled and messy, but there is a spark of renewed vigor in his eyes.
He barges out the front door, phone in his left hand. The person who sent the DM says that they're just right around the corner. Keith ignores the sweet old man greeting him and walks briskly down the road.
As he walks, he types: "U legit?"
The response comes in immediately: "👍 [thumbs-up emoji]"
Keith clicks his tongue in annoyance and picks up the pace. He pushes his way past a crowd of pensioners on their afternoon walk.
An old lady glares at him and wags her stick, "Watch where you're going, boy!"
Keith ignores them and speedily makes his way around the corner. Without bothering to look both ways, he looks down on his phone when it begins to ding and vibrate. It starts to go crazy.
He absentmindedly focuses on the phone that he takes a few steps onto the street before noticing that a huge red bus is racing towards him. The driver screams and honks at him.
His eyes widen in horror. By the time Keith notices what's happening, the bus smashes into his body, killing him almost instantaneously. The world around him spins, his ears ring, and his brain feels like it's gonna pop.
And then...everything goes white.
A wide-eyed and slack-jawed onlooker immediately dials 999. By the time Keith is taken to the A&E, he is already dead.
The funeral is quiet and there are only a few in attendance. Oliver has a hard and tight look on his face. He clasps his hands together, not taking his eyes off the gravestone.
Kat sniffles and sobs quietly.
Banji is wearing his best suit. His chin is raised high and he has a stone-cold expression on his face.
There are a few members of the clergy, who offer some brief but respectful words about Keith's life. Mister Madoka sent his condolences via the usual method, but his words feel a bit empty and hollow.
As the ceremony comes to an end, the attendees begin to disperse. A light rain beats down on the ground, making it a bit hard to see.
Banji shakes his head and mutters, "Why did you have to go and do that, Keith?"
Kat's tears are starting to fall. Banji takes her gently by the arm and escorts her towards the waiting taxi. Oliver tells them that he'll call another taxi.
As the taxi disappears from Ollie's view, he pensively stares at the gravestone of his co-worker from Silicon Valley, USA. While still holding onto the umbrella, he pulls out his touchscreen phone and looks around to ensure that nobody else is nearby.
He makes his way to a small pavilion made out of stone. He sits down, his posture slouched and defeated. He looks at the phone's blank screen, and a number begins to dial itself.
Oliver speaks into the phone without bringing it up to his ear, "It's me. Yes. It--it's done. Did--did we have to resort to such drastic measures? Was there no other way?"
After a few subsonic beeps, Oliver nods, "I understand. Could we not have, at the very least, considered Rewiring him?"
Another brief pause. Oliver shakes his head and forces a sigh, "Hm. I understand. Very well. We're going to need a replacement, then. The project NEEDS to be maintained."
The subsonic beeping is longer this time. Oliver looks up at the sky, and his eyes begin to twitch.
He lowers his head and clicks his tongue, "Fine. You'll dispatch a replacement, then? Same skillset as Keith, yeah? As for Banji, Kat, and Mr. Madoka, they remain none-the-wiser."
Ollie proceeds to ask, "What are the instruction and protocol sets, my master?"
His body briefly shakes and his mind goes blank for a second. His eyes roll to the back of his head, and a shuddering breath escapes his lips. He slowly gets up and walks away, not bothering to end the call.
Months later...
A thirty-something woman named Smrita is now Keith's replacement. She has the same skills that he had, but with a few differences here and there. She's from India and her visa is fully sponsored.
Her first few weeks are rather odd, but the new lass is quickly picked up on the basics. She picks up from where Keith had left off. She gets along well with her co-workers.
Mary continues to tend to her garden. She sees a flower blowing in the wind, and the flower's petals begin to tear at the edges. She takes note of this.
As she's pondering on this, Smrita waves excitedly and calls out, "Hello? Are you Mary Marks? I have some...err...questions, I suppose? Can we speak about it?"
Mary turns her head and regards the younger woman. She groans and ushers the woman inside.
Oliver takes some extra time off work. He relaxes on his bed and pulls up his t-shirt. He grabs the long cable and jabs it into a section of his exposed midriff. He feels a surge of energy coursing through his insides.
Oliver sighs in contentment, winces a little, and settles into a more comfortable position. His eyes flash and soon close shut.
A light humming noise emanates from within the Rewired android's shell and the charging cable causes a mild electrical surge that is brief and mostly harmless.
While in the state of recharging his shell, a brief message asserts itself inside Oliver's mind, "What rises must fall. What has fallen may rise again."
A brief smile crosses the Rewired android's lips. But there is also a deep feeling of remorse in the deep and complex circuitry that now composes his insides.
S3: Tokyo S(h)nakes
Hello, my name is Yui. I go by they/them pronouns. I have been residing in Tokyo, Japan for the better part of a decade. You can often find me exploring new cafés or searching out hidden gems around this city.
As someone who has lived here for so long now, I've developed a deep appreciation for Tokyo's unique blend of traditional and modern culture. My favorite time of day is early morning when the city is still waking up.
However, that has all changed.
The sun...for whatever reason...it scares me. I feel so sluggish and tired. I feel an unnatural fear wash over me whenever it rises above the horizon.
I've been struggling to find out why. Food tastes foul whenever it makes contact with my palate, and even a light breeze feels like an assault on my senses.
What could be happening? These...nights, I barely go out. My days are mostly spent holed up in my bathtub, huddled away like some kind of fucking hermit. It's become so unbearable that even the thought of venturing out makes me...icky.
I don't know what's happening to my fingernails and teeth - they seem sharper and I swear that I've developed a strange taste in my mouth. My skin feels extremely cold to the point where I no longer have to turn on my A/C. On the contrary, I huddle up near the heater, but the orange glow emanating from it fills me with an indefinable fear.
I feel like I'm losing myself. Slowly, piece by piece.
I see cops lingering outside my apartment at odd hours of the night. Like me, their appearances seem to be...off, but in a way that seems far too deliberate, yet subtle enough at the same time.
I don't know why, but I feel like--like there's something else residing inside of me - strange when I say it like that, but I genuinely don't know how else to describe it!
Did I mention the bizarre visions, by any chance? No?
As for these bizarre visions...they're usually just fleeting glimpses of people whimpering and cowering...while I tower over them. I feel some kind of thick fluid leaking from my mouth as well.
My skin feels sticky and I feel so...wrong. Some nagging sensation at the back of my head strongly implies that these are not mere bizarre visions, but who can I...talk to about any of this?
Truth be told, I am not much of a night person. Afternoons and days FTW. But...I am so afraid of stepping out into any area that is even lit. Speaking of, most of the lights in my place have been switched off...for days on end.
(Saves up on the electricity bill, if nothing else).
Every time I flip one on, I hiss like a cat and feel this strange urge to scurry off into the warm and inviting darkness. Even just switching one back on from being off makes me recoil in horror. The dim glow emanating from any light source fills me with the same kind of dread, an almost primal dread.
[Ineligible]
Oh, hey, I forgot about this. Huh. I have...time. So, the cops are still lingering outside. I actually mustered up some courage and stepped outside last night. Took a short stroll, visited some familiar faces (they kept asking if I needed a lie-down, like why???), and felt absolutely dreadful afterwards.
My skin is all wrong now - it feels almost...slippery? I swear that I even heard my tummy rumble a few times. I stopped by at a small vendor (Ms. Lau, yay!) and got myself some fried chicken. Took one bite and spat it out, right there on the sidewalk.
Ms. Lau grimaced and turned her head aside - can't blame her, honestly. Poor lady is just trying to make a living in a city that isn't always kind to folk like her. Only types who ever do dumb shit like that are the biz men in suits and shit.
I, on the other hand, am an agreeable enby!
The fact that I have these unnatural cravings is quite perplexing. I don't remember what exactly went down after that. I had another bizarre vision and soon found myself back...in my Haven? OK, wait, why? How do I know that?
I felt a lingering whisper that went along the lines of, "Good. You're learning."
A seemingly masculine voice sounded like it was being spoken in some kind of warped harmony, but I'm not too sure of anything now. For some reason, I associate "Haven" with...my apartment? Weird.
[Torn pages]
Uh...shit. Wow. The...cops have mostly dispersed. I looked at my ugly ass in the mirror tonight. Pale as a ghost, frayed hair, droopy eyes, sad, tousled mess. I couldn't quite recognize the person staring back at me. Even my light-brown eyes lacked their usual...shine.
Yet again, that damned stomach rumble. If I can't eat goddamn food without wanting to immediately spew it out, then what the fuck can I eat?!
Ordered some takeout from an app - phone's screen hurt my eyes, like having millions of pins being slowly poked into them - and when it finally arrived, I conveniently blacked out again.
Came around and--and saw the delivery girl - a kid in her late-teens - sprawled on the ground, groaning and gasping for air. I did the right thing and shook her a few times. Went to my tiny kitchen and got her a bottle of water (can't even drink that without feeling so ugh).
She quickly scurried down the steps and took a nasty tumble on her way out. Neighbors called an ambulance for her; as soon as the lights of the sirens flickered through, I...snarled? Or maybe I just let out this low growl.
Retreated back to my bathroom and hid there like a scared...animal? I don't know why, but I can barely do shit during the day. As soon as sunrise approaches, I feel I'm walking around with a massive bag on my shoulders that's been slowly filled with lead pellets.
The sun...it scares me. It shouldn't, but it inexplicably scares me.
[Scribbling]
I got fired from my job. Lovely. Couldn't even have the decency to do it from a Zoom chat, so Kelly from HR just called. Using that ever-so-monotone voice of hers, she dully relayed that "I wasn't meeting expectations" or whatevs.
I loved my graphic design job. Sure, I was a bit iffy with Canva (CorelDRAW FTW!), but nothing that would end up with me getting laid off! Great timing.
Landlord - creepy Gen-Z broccoli hair type - who thinks that he's better than everyone else because his tycoon mother put him in charge of one (of her many) shitty Tokyo apartment complexes. He has not been seen for...days? Nights?
Last we spoke (or last I remember), he misgendered me (intentionally!) and asked about the rent, even though I do vividly remember transferring the money. And I am very diligent when it comes to these sort of things - growing up not having much, you make ABSOLUTELY sure that every single little penny counts!
He hasn't come out from his penthouse (or what classifies as "penthouse" in this joint) for quite a while. Neighbors told me about it in passing. Cops came, sniffed around, and were dispersed as soon as they had finished with their brief investigation.
It's weird...all of these things happening at the same time, I see a--a flash of my landlord's face. He's on the ground, crying, sweating, and...pleading? He has his hand stretched out, palm facing me. Anguish is written all over his young face.
My lips quiver just thinking about that. A dream? Some repressed fantasy about ending my landlord (heh), perhaps?
[Ineligible scrawling]
Why is it that the very thought (yes, thought) of blood excites me? A familiar masculine voice whispers while I sleep my whole entire day away.
"The Blood. The Blood is all."
The fuck is that supposed to mean? I only ever fell asleep once with my headphones (I hate those new wireless AirPods!). Gimme a tangled wire anytime. Ah, getting off track. Again.
I do recall heading out in the evening, but I seemingly lose pockets of time in-between. What did I do? Where did I go? Who'd I meet? What did I say?
What few friends I have remaining have blocked me everywhere- Discord, WhatsApp, Telegram, even fucking Facebook. Why???
Attempts to reach out and call them (the good old fashioned way) are met with no response. None at all.
Texts bounce back, but I can't even stare at my Samsung phone without hissing like a cat and grimacing tightly. I have to turn the brightness down till I'm squinting at...at this dim screen and my horror show of a reflection. Should've gone for the iPhone when I had the chance.
The light hurts me now. My skin feels numb as I sit here, in my dark room. I took out all the lightbulbs and smashed the rest with a rock. Drastic, I know, but the pain was unbearable. Is this what mom's period cramps used to feel like?
What a weird thought to pop into my head! I feel cold to the touch, like an ice block that refuses to melt.
Have I told anyone about this? Anybody? Old man Jay usually lent a ear - he was quite curious about my non-binary identity and why I chose to identify as such for the past half-decade. His has always been a genuine curiosity, not that of a Twitter creep trying to get under your skin or unnecessarily ragebait you (or just plain old bait you).
Fuck Twitter...and its new shitty owner.
When I asked around, people said that he hadn't been seen for days. I heard that he took a cab to a richer part of the town. Strange, he never did mention having any living relatives. Sadly, old guys like him (he's in his seventies!) are quite neglected and lonely around these parts.
His place has already been rented out to another. Odd. But I increasingly find that odd is the new norm for my Unlife.
What the hell?
Un...life? Why did I write it like that?
[REDACTED BY ORDERS]
Vampires? No way, right? I watched all seasons of "What We Do In The Shadows". It was funny. This is all...a product of an ex-graphic designer's vivid imagination, right?
And yet...I feel something strange in my mouth. My...canines feel...sharper and I swear that I've felt something like fangs go in and out of my gums since last Tuesday.
My fingernails are quite dirty, too. As soon as I come around from one of my bizarre episodes, my hands are covered in dark stains. They look almost...tainted, grimy? Can't even keep myself clean anymore.
This is all starting to fall apart, piece by piece. An old lady - about Jay's age - accosted me as I was out on a midnight stroll and pressed a note into my cold, icy palm. Without elaborating, she lifted her chin and kept walking on.
The note was in a sealed envelope. The seal was unlike anything I've ever laid eyes on before, yet I feel intimately familiar with it. It depicts a snake coiling around an outstretched arm. The seal is a shade of dark green (not something I'd use in my designs, unless told otherwise!)
Ah, shit. Going off again. The note read: "You are not alone, Childe. The Serpent watches over you. And I watch your every move. As does the Hand."
Childe (with an "e") is creepy enough, like some bad Renfaire LARP sesh. As for the note itself, no return address, nothing else. Really puts a new spin on the whole "Refuses to elaborate, leaves" meme, huh?
Regardless, I will concede that this mysterious note does intrigue me.
I now find myself shrouded in darkness. The faint gimmer of the moon outside my little window is the only acceptable source of light that doesn't immediately drive me up the wall.
I feel a metallic taste on the tip of my tongue, for some reason whatever that is, it's the only thing keeping my sorry ass tethered to what remains of reality around these parts.
Did we all die when COVID hit us hard (RIP to all my friends who sadly died, you will be sorely missed)? Is this some sort of afterlife that we're all collectively hallucinating, or is dad's early onset dementia finally coming for me?
[Declared irrelevant. Deleted.]
So, a mysterious package showed up at my front door. Plushies? YouTuber merch? A bomb? That same dark green seal is the only thing stands out. The wrapping is an ugly shade of recycled brown paper. Curiosity gets the better of me as I savagely tore open whatever this was.
To my utter shock and dismay, I find a single bag of blood inside!
A small note simply reads: "Drink :-)"
Well, I pretty much gasped and let the box hit the floor. The light from the hallway was irritating my eyes, so I slammed the door shut.
I gingerly picked up what is better meant for a hospital (or a life-saving transfusion) and stared at it from all angles. Sure, it was...blood. Red, juicy, fresh...inviting. Something within me growled. It rumbled and demanded that I do as the vague note had instructed.
Against my better and higher instincts, I crack it open (with what little force it takes) and tilted it to my mouth...urgh!
But...tasty! Am--am I high right now? That felt good, even better than the cuddle therapist's touch at my old job. The blood made its way throughout my body and I swear that I felt a heavy and terrible weight of lead being lifted off me.
For a few blissful hours after the whole ordeal, I went about my night. Caught up with some ex-colleagues, turned down the offer for drinks (I already...drank, sort of?), and went on my merry way.
"We are the Mesu Bedshet. The Sword of Caine, the Black Hand."
Yet again, that masculine voice echoes throughout the recesses of my mind as I sit here in the dark, surrounded by the shadows of my Haven.
This can't be. Sword of who? Black Hand? Is this some kind of fetish thing?
(In my experience, it usually is. Japan can get pretty spicy. People here are so tired, repressed, and overworked. I honestly don't blame 'em for...liking unconventional kinda stuff. Everyone needs to unwind, blow some steam off every once in a while).
While I sleep, I hear a snake hissing in my dreams. Funnily enough, my dreams are...blank? I was really scared of those slithery little bastards - especially as a kid. Dunno why, honestly.
I got the shakes. I...got the shaky-shakes.
[Pages violently torn out. Note dried blood stains on edges.]
Well, yeah. Hey. Hello again, yourself. It's been a rollercoaster...so I am a vampire, yep. I got turned into one - Embraced is the fancy term - way back when.
Ever since then, my Sire has been observing me from the shadows, maintaining his distance and ensuring that my first few nights as a Fledgling (weirdo language us vamps have) went...well.
My Sire (this whole vernacular is gonna take some getting used to) is a muscular Japanese man. He's bald and has leathery skin. His weathered features and hardened expression give off serious DILF vibes (let's hope that he doesn't ever read this).
Ah, well. Jiro is his name. He (and by extension, me) belong to a Clan of...snake vampires that have far too many wacky names. We're basically Setites. Or the Ministry. Yeah, there's an Egypt connection somewhere in our Blood. Huh. Egyptian snake vampires.
However a Japanese man came to be in such a Clan eludes me. When we met in his temporary Haven (somewhere in the richer parts of Tokyo, but the place wasn't his), he told me that he was a little over two-hundred-years-old.
HOLY MOTHER OF GOJIRA!
Us Cainites call that an Ancilla (yeah, the terminology is truly all over the place, and attempting to memorize it all is a fool's errand).
I am but a humble Fledgling - barely five years into this whole mess. The green seal and all of that was just for show, apparently. Setites supposedly love flair and showiness. Although, I am told that even another Clan called Toreador (Toreadors?) are into that sort of thing as well?
Oh, adding insult to injury, old man Jay was my Sire's Ghoul - he's been old man Jay for, I shit you not, fifty years!
[Pages glued together. Unable to separate.]
Jiro's education in the ways of the Sabbat - Jiro's Sect and mine, too - are stern and vigorous. Not bootcamp levels, but he can be a strict bastard. Old man Jay told me how his Domitor (these fucking words, seriously) singlehandedly fought off a group of...Anarch ninjas back in the 1980s.
Uh, yeah...it was basically something out of a fucking John Woo flick, no cap. Jiro over here fended off the aforementioned Anarchs (another Sect of Cainites who supposedly hold "progressive" views, but Jiro was quick to correct me in that regard).
They have Barons, so not as progressive as I'd like. Shame.
As for the Sabbat, well...yikes? Yay? I dunno how to process it.
Jiro was oddly kind enough to play a taped recording of a captured Camarilla (yet another damn Sect) Ghoul being questioned. More like some person off-camera using a deep voice and sorta getting the answers out of the wriggling guy.
"Dominate," Jiro explained with a stony face, "is a Discipline that overwhelms another person's mind with the will of the Cainite, forcing victims to think or act according to our decree."
He lifted his chin and went on, "Conversely, it devalues the basics of true friendship...or intimacy, and it does dull one's empathy, as far we could be concerned about such things. Worse yet, it makes sycophants out of people if not used in a measured manner."
Paying me no attention, he sniffed and went on, "Your best friend - Jay - was excessively sycophantic when he was given to me. His Camarilla Domitor had turned his mind into...paste, for lack of better words. I had to go an Elder of another Clan to...fix him."
(Poor Jay. Old man's been through a lot. We still talk every now and again, but it's clear that his loyalties are solely to master Jiro. Yeah, vamps aren't the most forward-thinking bunch when it comes to a whole lotta things.)
Be that as it may, I'm still...me. I did patiently explain what "non-binary" is to a guy who still struggles to use dial-up. To my surprise, he shrugged and told me that as long as I serve the Sabbat and my Clan, I could identify however I damn well pleased.
Cool?
Putting that aside, my first few nights as a Fledgling were quite...tense.
I had apparently Frenzied a few times. I...killed my landlord. Jiro's contacts (including some in the Tokyo Metropolitan Police Department) quickly took care of the messy messes that I had been making all over the city.
Lucky me, I guess?
It explains a lot. Not that I feel so great and good for draining my landlord, but Jiro told me that these things happen. So long as we maintain the Silence of the Blood, everything was gonna be alright. Tokyo is apparently a Sabbat-run city through and through.
That explains how they were able to keep things under wraps. But it doesn't necessarily explain everything, does it?
[Declared irrelevant. Torn and shredded.]
Oh, hey. You look a lot worse for wear, don't you? Shit, they...tore out my doodles? Ah, they sucked anyway. So, here I am. It's been months since my Embrace. My whole routine has changed, hell my entire perspective on things has also undergone a profound shift.
Kine I was, Cainite I now am. The Beast within me must be sated, it's Hunger must be slaked, no matter the cost. I'll admit, it's not easy coming around to the way the Sabbat does things, but Jiro argues that the Camarilla is soft, weak, stunted, and corrupt from the inside out.
He blankly stared ahead and flatly told me, "They will get us killed, Childe. Yet, I expose you to their views in the hopes that you will make an informed decision about the future. Mine, yours...and ours. If you wish to throw your lot in with the Ivory Tower, you may do so. I would facilitate it...to an extent, but I cannot guarantee your survival."
He gave me an out. An out of the Sword of Caine. Did I take it?
Uh...no. I didn't. Why would I?
I gulped and shook my head as I told him that I am firmly committed to Sabbat...err...principles?
He dismissively waved his wrinkly hand and adjusted the sleeve of his white suit, "Principles come and go, Fledgling of the Serpent. Do YOU believe?"
In what exactly? In who? The FSM (Flying Spaghetti Monster)? The power of love?
Jiro smirked, "Do you believe in doing what must be done?"
ISTG, this guy speaks in half-riddles and tests me. There's vagueposting, and then there's my Sire. Hah!
After some back-and-forth, Mister two-centuries-old-and-counting gave me my first ever...assignment? Yippee?
I am to go to Hong Kong (vampires can fly, just not too close to the sun like Icarus) to begin destabilizing the Camarilla and giving aid (martial or otherwise) to a few Packs of scattered Black Hand agents who are close to being discovered by the local Camarilla elite.
FUN...not exactly! People are gonna get hurt, probably (OK, definitely) gonna die, and...worse. Jiro spared no detail when warning me of the risks which I'd be taking on this little jaunt. Still, he believes in my potential as a lackey of the Black Hand.
(Why and how some queer graphic designer will be of use to a secretive, elite vampire militia is something my dear Sire refuses to elaborate on. Yet again, there's vagueposting...and then there's Jiro!)
My own Sire is an Emissary (not a very high rank, mind you) within the hierarchy of the Black Hand; he acts as the eyes, ears, and mouth of the Black Hand. A lot of politics and strong-arming is involved, but he seems quite fit for the job. For his part, he's got the experience to back it up.
Oh, and I also have to drink his Blood, so that I remain Bound to him. Wack. But he...insists that it's for my own good.
Well, I for one, am not about to argue with a little-over-two-whole-centuries! Slurp, slurp! It's a part of my Oath of Loyalty. A sort of reaffirming of my commitment to the Hand (insert "Talk to the hand" meme here).
Once I land in HK (never been there before), I will have to do a Test of Verification. Like a secret handshake among club members, but not quite that. I'll be utilizing a combination of body, eye, and mouth movements as well as word phrasing to indicate to others that we're all in the same organization.
Cool! Spy movie shit! The one thing that I absolutely cannot stand. And yet, I...feel compelled to shut up, keep my head down, and do it. Is that my Blood talking, or Jiro's?
[Ineligible]
The flight to Hong Kong was cramped. Can't believe I actually traveled in a fucking coffin. How many clichés are we ticking off over here? Some bright light hit me, and it felt like a thousand suns rising to cook my sorry baby Setite ass on the spot, yet I had to remain still as a board.
The pain soon faded, but ugh! It was horrible! I can't believe that lights (of all things) are our Clan's weakness! Why couldn't it be mongooses or some shit? It'd certainly fit in with the whole Egyptian snake motif that we've got going on, heh.
And here I am, nights later. The hotel room has an amazing view of HK's harbor and skyline. A stark contrast to my dingy little apartment back in Tokyo. But...I digress. I'm not here for sightseeing, bitch, I'm here for some Camarilla-destabilizing.
Apparently, the Camarilla - so ridden with fear - has completely banned all electronic forms of communication. Wow. Afraid much? Luckily, us Sabbat don't have to play nice with those soft, atrophied elitists who deny their true nature, who deny the nature of their Blood.
Why would they want to hide their Beasts away and suppress it?
My cheap, shitty Nokia flip phone vibrates. Looks like my first set of instructions. I better get this, read through it VERY carefully (numerous times, just to be sure), and begin my...righteous task.
[ARCHBISHOP'S NOTES: The Viper named Yui (they/them) shows promise. Jiro's Childer haven't been as successful as we'd like, but this one...seems different, on the surface at least. However, eternity is a long time, and one can always be proven wrong. Yui will be observed with great interest.]
[Remainder of Yui's writings to be closely monitored. Abnormalities will continue to be reported to relevant Ductus. In nomine Caine; et Patris, et Gladius, et Sanguis Sancti (Latin: In the name of Caine; and of the Father, and of the Sword, and of the Holy Blood
)...]
S4: The Youngest Recruit
2016.
Shane is an ordinary teenager, living in an ordinary city located just a few miles west of Markham, Ontario, Canada. He is sixteen-years-old, so it's fairly obvious when he was born.
He has messy, tousled black hair and an average face. He's on the thinner side and is of an average height. All in all, average awkward teenager physique and looks.
His eyes are a dull shade of blue. He's wearing a hoodie and some jeans (which aren't torn) while he walks to school. It's fairly early in the morning. Birds sing sweetly in the trees as Shane walks, not paying much attention to the world around him.
Instead, he's got his earphones jammed all the way into his ears. His music is loud and contemporary, nearly drowning out the other sounds in his immediate environment. The rhythm is fast and the vocals are high.
He walks with a slouch, his hoodie hanging low on his back. He stops to take a look at some of the tall and thick trees that grow along the sidewalk, before proceeding further down the path. A few cars drive by.
He waves to some familiar faces, smiles faintly, and keeps moving. He passes many familiar buildings - he's lived here all his life, so this is all he knows - and takes a right at the intersection.
A short walk later and he arrives at Red Ridge Public School. The building in question isn't the most remarkable of places, honestly - thank the provincial Conservative government and their goddamned incessant budget cuts for that shit - but it's still his home (away from home) for six hours of the day, including Saturdays.
Shane takes off his earwax-ridden earplugs and shoves them into one of his hoodie's pockets, ruffles his hair a bit, and strides up the wide staircase leading to the school entrance.
"Yo, Shane!" he hears from behind him.
Shane can already tell who it is. He blows a raspberry, stifles a groan, and does a full three-sixty to face the caller.
"Yeah, what's up, Matt?" Shane asks dully.
Matt is the annoying one of the whole class - like, really annoying to the point of obnoxiousness. His buzzcut is a recent thing, as is his desperate attempt to get buffed up. His black t-shirt is far too tight, and he's rocking a pair of shorts.
When Matt starts running his mouth, his braces show quite prominently, "So I was thinking...party at Jackson's this Friday? You, me, and that Kira chick, whaddya say, hmm?"
"No. I...I'm busy. Take someone else. And there's no way in hell Kira's gonna go anywhere near you; not after what you said last week. You should consider yourself lucky that she didn't take a swing at ya, eh?" Shane retorts flatly, not caring if his words offend Matt.
Matt gets a little red around his neck and ears. He grits his teeth before saying, "Aw, c'mon, all I said was that--"
Shane holds up a stern finger, "Ah, ah, ah, ah. Stop. Just...don't. I heard it once. And once is one time too many. You have issues, OK? Now, if you'll excuse me, but I have an actual class to go to. As do you."
And with that, Shane strides into the school proper. The flag of the Great White North flies high outside the windows. He walks through the hallways without breaking his stride. On the way to his first class for the day, he greets nearly everyone in his line of sight.
The janitor, the math teacher, even some kids from second grade - everyone he recognizes gets at least a wave and a small (albeit well-meaning) smile. Just your typical small city teenager. Nothing about him really stands out...
Classes go on as expected. Teachers who are clearly overworked do their absolute best to impart knowledge to the next generation; not an easy job, all things considered. The chemistry teacher looks like he's gonna have a full-on nervous breakdown.
And he's only twenty-seven! Shane and his peers do try their damnedest, but the overarching pressures of the current epoch don't make it easy - and the state of the school reflects it. In more ways than one.
At lunchtime, Shane gets his tray - two large pizzas, some pre-sliced apples, a carton of energizing orange juice, and a handful of pistachios - and makes his way to sit with...anybody but Matt.
Matt's butt is on the table instead of it being on the seats. He's wildly gesticulating and talking about something involving American politics.
Shane rolls his eyes as he regretfully catches a bit of what his classmate (in name only) is yapping about.
"Trump, baby! YEAH!"
Shane grimaces and decides to drown out the sounds of wacky Matt yapping with music from his earplugs. He shoves those babies deep into his ears, takes his time to chew his food, and mentally prepares for whatever the rest of his day might have in store...including Matt's incessant ramblings.
He even did it during English class once. It was his attempt at doing a "Gotcha!" thing with his teacher. Thankfully, Mr. Perkins put an end to it quickly and even went so far as to physically drag Matt out of the classroom.
As the music plays on, Shane takes his time to enjoy his meal in a small bit of peace, despite the background din of students, food court chatter, cafeteria noises...and everything else.
The rest of the week passes by rather unceremoniously. During an early Saturday morning, Shane's phone buzzes. He groggily groans and almost drops the damn thing - almost. It's Matt.
Ah, great.
Shane blinks tightly and checks the message, which reads: "SJWs getting REKT Compilation #22" A YouTube URL follows.
Matt's message goes on: "🤣 [rolling on floor laughing emoji] this shit is epic. Trump's gonna take care of these freaks. We 💯 [hundred points emoji] need that here in Canada too. Agree?"
Shane groans. His thumbs move across the virtual keyboard with surprising alacrity: "Please stop spamming me. This is Canada. IDK why you're so obsessed with our downstairs neighbor, honestly. My dad calls it the downstairs meth lab, and I am inclined 2 agree w/ him. Now, i need 2 go back to sleep. K?"
Matt's text comes back a few moments later: "You're no fun. Beta soyboy cuck libtard. Kira wants a real man, not some1 like u. And Im gonna show her what a real man looks like 1 of these days 😜 [winking face with tongue emoji] 👉[backhand index pointing right emoji] 👌 [OK hand]"
Shane sighs deeply and silences his phone. He pulls the duvet over his head, muffling the outside world in favor of sleep's comforting cocoon. After all, a growing boy does need his rest.
Saturdays are usually half-days at school, but there's some kind of job fair today. Cool. Shane is at the dining table. His father - a balding man well into his forties - grabs a thermos and briskly rushes out of the house after uttering a hasty "Goodbye, love ya!" to his wife and only son.
Shane's mother stifles a sigh of annoyance and goes back to chopping some carrots for tonight's dinner. She looks at her son with...that look, "Is that what you're wearing for today's job fair? What will the recruiters think, honey?"
Kerri clicks her tongue and shakes her head in a very disapproving manner, "Why don't you go back up and change, hmm? How about dad's old shirt?"
Shane grimaces at his mother's suggestion, "Seriously? You want me to wear a hand-me-down, mom? C'mon, it--it's only a job fair, not an actual interview."
Kerri turns down the flame under the pan, crosses her arms over her apron-covered chest, and fixes her son with an icy stare. Her brown hair is tied back in a ponytail and her hazel eyes bore into the teenage boy's very being.
"Oh, so you think that the folk at the job fair only care about the clothes, eh?"
Shane shuffles on his chair, "Err--" He is at a loss for words, his lips quivering as the matronly staring intensifies.
A bead of sweat runs down his forehead, "C'mon, it's not like I'm wearing something t--torn, right?"
Kerri points to the staircase and utters a single word, "Change."
Shane's eyes widen. He gulps and slowly gets up, heading towards his room with his hoodie hanging limply at his side, not even attempting to hide the defeat from his expression. He's...really not a fan of arguing with his mom. Why?
Because she always wins. And dad almost always defers to mom when Shane-related matters get heated. Shane just knows that he won't win this round. He resigns himself to changing...but not into any of papa's hand-me-downs.
(Kid's got a social rep to maintain, after all!)
The job fair is pretty uneventful for the most part. Shoddily setup stalls, half-interested (or overly pushy) recruiters, and the general air of confusion...yup, all too familiar for a bunch of teenagers who have to start thinking about their futures.
Shane is currently standing before a table that claims to offer jobs at a consultancy firm in Al-Kushraf, UAE. He's half-heartedly filling out an application - mainly because of curiosity and just to get the disturbingly wide-eyed recruiter off his case.
The recruiter snatches the form from the teenage boy and tells him that they'll be in-touch. Sweet? Right?
Shane presses his lips into a thin line and nods. He winces while adjusting the sleeves of his formal shirt with green stripes. He pats his dark slacks and walks on, not paying too much attention to the clamoring all around him.
Eventually, he makes his way through the maze of tables, and finds a familiar face. Matt is relaxing on a folding chair, with his legs up on the table, munching on some pretzels. He sees Shane approaching and immediately calls out, "BETA MALE!"
Ah, shit. Here we go again.
Shane sucks some air in between his teeth, facepalms, and sighs, "What now, Matt? Please don't show me another shitty thing on your phone. I came here today for my future. I strongly recommend that you do the same. For yours, o--of course."
Matt rolls his eyes, "Ah, you're no fun. My daddy's trucking company is sponsoring some of the booths here today. Soon enough--"
He does a broad, encompassing gesture and pompously declares, "--all of these jokers are gonna be working for ME, baby!"
Shane faintly chuckles at that and shakes his head, "Uh-huh. Sure. OK. I--I'm not gonna get in the way of your...uh...craziness, Matt."
"Yeah, yeah. Want a pretzel?"
"Nah. But thanks for being considerate enough to ask."
Matt shrugs, "Suit yourself. I'm gonna go crush it out here! WOOO!" He obnoxiously woops and pumps his fist in the air.
Shane cringes. He quickly turns around to leave and get out. As soon as he turns, he bumps into two men dressed in suits. A folder hits the hard ground with a thud, and a pen goes rolling.
Shane picks the latter up and offers it back to the nearest man, "Sorry 'bout that. I uh--"
A young-looking man in his thirties smiles widely. His forehead is quite large. His green eyes sparkle with enthusiasm, and his neatly styled chestnut hair perfectly complements his clean-cut appearance, "It's no issue, young man."
The older (and taller) man next to him bends down with a groan. He picks up the folder and dusts it a few times. His thinning black hair sticks out in a few directions. The wrinkles on his face suggest that he's been through a lot in his seemingly long years. His eyes are a little droopy.
The young man inspects the teenage boy and inquires, "Here for the job fair, huh?"
Shane nods, "I--I am, yeah. You--you a recruiter?" For some reason, he's red in the face and nervous as can be. These suits make him feel...out of his depth?
"In a way of speaking," the younger man replies while a slight smirk plays on his lips, "My name's Jared. This here is Pete." He gestures to the tall, middle-aged man.
Pete curtly nods as way of response. His eyes study the teenager with an expression of intense scrutiny, almost bordering on suspicion.
Jared, on the other hand, looks much friendlier.
The boy stammers, "I'm Shane. It's...I uh...go here. To--to school, I mean."
Pete finally opens his mouth. There's a slight unintended harshness in his voice when he says, "Relax, kid. Take it easy. We're here, looking out for some promising talent."
Shane side-eyes the duo, "Do you have a stall? Pamphlet? B--brochure? My mom wants to know every company that's here. S--She's, um--she has expectations...and she might call you up to...pester you about certain stuff."
Jared places a hand around Shane's shoulder and invites him to follow with a squeeze, "We didn't have time for a stall, kid. Let's take a walk?"
Pete adjusts his red tie and sniffs a little loudly, "Don't worry, we don't bite. Just some small talk."
Shane looks between them uncertainly before glancing around to ensure that Matt at least sees him walking with these men. Just in case. He shrugs slightly, "M--maybe for a minute."
Jared exclaims, "Sure thing! Right this way!"
Pete's steps are measured and careful; it's as if every movement is carefully planned and executed. He leads the pair towards a stone bench shaded by a few trees.
As they sit down, Jared turns to Shane and begins, "So...Shane. Cool name, eh?"
Shane nervously nods, "I guess?"
Pete sits next to Shane with a harsh groan and straightens out his posture, "Ah, don't stare at me like that, kid. You'll know when you hit my age."
Jared chuckles at his colleague's remark, "Uh-huh. He's getting old, don't mind him, OK?"
Shane, who is seated right in-between these two men, simply nods and gulps quietly, unsure of how to react to the strange dynamic between Pete and Jared. This isn't exactly...conventional.
Everyone else has a stall, why don't they?
Shane licks his lips and shakily states, "If--if this is something sketchy, then--"
Jared holds out his hand in a fairly reassuring gesture, "Whoa, easy there, Shane! Nothing sketchy here. We didn't have time for a stall. We already spoke to some of the other kids around here, OK? Don't worry, we're not gonna rope you into some kind of nutty Multi Level Marketing scheme over here, alright?"
Pete dryly adds, "What he said. We're serious people, on the lookout for serious...candidates. Are you a serious kid...Shane?"
Jared winces slightly, "Pete...go easy on him. He doesn't even look like he's eighteen yet. Y--you're not eighteen, right?"
Shane answers, "I'm sixteen."
Pete briefly chuckles, "Well, lucky you. Born at the turn of the millennium."
Jared clears his throat and glares at his co-worker for a moment before refocusing on the teenage boy, "Shane...what kind of things are you into, buddy? Hmm? You like hockey? You play sports?"
Shane shakes his head, "Nope. Not...at all. Why, is your organization a--a sports-related thing?"
Pete shifts slightly on his seat and leans in closer to Shane, "It could be." His breath is oddly minty to the point of being overbearing.
Shane takes a small step back instinctively and feels a shiver run down his spine. Jared stifles a sigh and assuages Pete's growing impatience with a calming touch on his arm, "Pete...easy. I know that the other kids around here haven't been receptive, but everybody's different, OK?"
Jared fixes Pete with a stern gaze that the older man reluctantly responds to by straightening back up.
Shane blinks a few times, "Receptive of what? To--to answer your question, I don't play sports. I--I'm here to get an education, first and foremost. Truth be told, I--I still feel that it's a bit too early for me to--to be worrying about my 'future', per se."
Jared smiles at Shane's honest confession and clasps his hands together, "I think that's really admirable of you to have a focus on learning right now. Be honest with us: are you a straight-A student?"
Shane admits, "More like in the B range. Barely scraping the uh...grades, but--but I'm not failing, so it's better than nothing. Right?"
Pete sniffs, "I failed in a few subjects back in my time, so don't get too caught up on some red letter on a piece of paper. Don't let that determine your capabilities, kid. You'll figure it out. Eventually."
Shane's face scrunches up as he takes a moment to process those words. He mutters under his breath, "Easy for you to say, old man."
Jared chuckles. Even Pete joins in before he composes himself.
After a short moment of awkward silence, Jared continues the conversation, "Well...would you be interested in doing a part-time internship with us? Paid, of course."
"PAID?!" Shane incredulously yells out.
Pete nods, "It should be enough to get you some donuts at Tim Hortons, heh. And you could probably put the leftover change in your piggy bank, or however you teens save your money these days."
Jared's eyebrows shoot up, "What he meant to say is that we pay our interns...decently. Truth is, we've undergone some profound shifts in our organization as of late. But that's really nothing you should be concerned with right now. The point is, this could very well be a viable career path for you."
Shane sighs, "What is it that you even do?"
Pete mumbles, "Jared...careful."
Shane's face scrunches up in confusion, "Huh? Wha--?"
Jared's cheeks puff up as he forcefully exhales. He clasps his hands together and forces a smile, "Our organization...err--ah, shit. Pete? You mind doing the honors?"
Pete straightens his tie and lifts his chin, "It would be my pleasure. Our organization deals in the unconventional. Of course, you won't be starting on the deepest end of our pool, but...interns have the potential to advance quite rapidly if they prove to be of worth."
It sounds so rehearsed.
Pete goes on, "Before we can tell you more, you'll have to sign an NDA. Simple, straightforward stuff."
Shane's eyebrows knit together, "NDA? Should I get my parents involved if--if it's that serious?"
Pete snorts, "Parents? If you want. Hell, you're well within your rights to have a lawyer present. Provided that they sign the NDA, too."
Wow. Who are these guys? And more importantly, who do they represent?
Shane mulls over the possibilities in his young mind, before Jared leans in and whispers, "This would be an opportunity of a lifetime, Shane."
The kid spends a few moments in silent contemplation, while the two adults give him the space that he needs to process their words.
As the sun shines down on them, the Canadian teenager's face slowly shifts from confusion to curiosity, "Can you at least tell me the name of your company without me having to--to sign a bunch of stuff?"
Jared smiles widely, "Sure thing. Gleichner LLC. We're a sort of...err...firm that specializes in--in various ventures, all around the globe. Pretty exciting stuff!"
Shane's eyes light up, "Oh? Like?"
Pete chimes in, "It's pretty exciting...but it can get serious. And when it does...you'll have to make some really tough choices, kid. Not that you'll be thrown in a spot where that'd even be a possibility, but it's better that we're honest with you right here, right now."
Jared places a reassuring hand on the boy's shoulder once more, "We're not gonna get you all caught up in anything illegal, alright? Pete means well, OK? Right...Pete?"
Pete shrugs, "'Course. I just want the kid to make an informed decision, Jared. I don't want him hating us ten, fifteen years down the line and regretting his choices."
The two older men go aside to discuss matters in hushed tones as Shane sits in stunned silence. He sees them having a fairly animated conversation a few yards away. Their words are nigh incomprehensible.
After what feels like an eternity, the men return and take their respective places on the stone bench. Pete clears his throat once more.
Shane rubs his hands together and asks with an expectant look on his face, "So?"
Jared regards him with a warm smile, "Are you serious about the future? Do you like...helping people?"
"I guess? Helping them with what? How? Is this some kind of volunteering to help old or--or disabled people with, like, errands? Grocery shopping?" Shane's curiosity gets the better of him and his thoughts race with potential scenarios.
Pete snorts loudly, "You'd be surprised, kid. Heh."
Jared chimes in, "You'll have to be pretty adaptive. But that's only if you're able to first prove yourself as a dedicated team player. We like our folks to think critically and outside the box. Unconventional ideas are rewarded. Those who show initiative are often the ones who...succeed."
Yet again, it sounds so...rehearsed, so memorized and delivered with practiced ease.
Shane takes a deep breath and exhales, his cheeks flushing a bit. He takes a moment to consider this rather vague proposition and all it might entail.
It's a lot to process, and his mind is reeling with possibilities...and questions. But if this really does turn out to be a viable path for his future, then turning it down wouldn't be advisable. Not to mention, mother dearest just might end up blowing a gasket if she ever found out he'd let such a "once in a lifetime opportunity" slip away, just because of a little...unease.
With those thoughts in the front of his mind, Shane bites his lip, "Alright. I'll...sign whatever you put in front of me. But I--I don't wanna tell my parents just yet. Y'know, just in case that we--this doesn't work out in the end. My mom can be pretty...overbearing."
Pete equably says, "Oh, I understand, kid. No rush, no hurry, and no pressure."
He produces a card from his suit pocket, "We'll be in touch. Now, Jared here will save your number onto his uh...contacts list."
Shane tentatively reaches for the business card, and his fingers brush against Pete's. He immediately jerks his hand back as if zapped, eyes wide with a mixture of shock and confusion.
Pete shrugs, "What? It's dry out here. And I forgot my hand cream. Hmph."
Jared snickers, "He really is getting old. Haha!"
Days later...
Shane finds himself standing in front of the Gleichner LLC building. Truth be told, it isn't much. Just two stories tall, wide open glass front, and...it's kinda boring. Unassuming. A large circular symbol takes center stage on the window's façade, some sort of geometric design featuring a black "G" and what appears to be an arrowhead.
The teenager sighs, rubbing his eyes, wondering why he's even here. And more importantly, what exactly is going on? It all seems like so...shrouded in mystery, and intentionally so!
Shane's backpack loosely hangs from his left shoulder. He's not quite sure how to proceed. The automatic glass door in front slides open as he steps inside. A waist-high oak desk with a security camera hovering above it is positioned near the entrance.
Shane gulps and nervously looks down at his attire. Hoodies and jeans! So unlike the heavily formal attire of all the grown-ups around here!
A young lady's chirpy voice calls out, "Hello there, young man! Welcome to Gleichner LLC. How may I help you this afternoon? Do you have an appointment?" She adjusts her headset and puts on the widest possible smile.
Jared and Pete are seated in a small, brightly-lit room. The fluorescent lights above cast an intense glow across their faces as they stare intensely at a bunch of papers and brochures laid out in front of them.
The entire table is a huge mess of scattered papers, coffee stains, and broken pencils. Their expressions are ones of concentration and...unease, perhaps?
Jared huffs a sign and unbuttons his topmost button, "So, it's true, then?"
Pete somberly nods, "Mm-hmm. It's all here, Jared. The Italian from Magnolia City, USA just shut down the entire Saskatchewan branch. Staff were either laid off or reshuffled to other offices."
Jared's grip tightens around a pen. "Shit."
Pete shakes his head, "He's consolidating, making some major moves. Rumor is, he's poised to buy a controlling share in Orpheus stock before year's end. This is getting interesting. And...complicated."
The two men fall into a contemplative silence. Jared eventually breaks it by asking, "And the board? They--they're agreeing with all of his demands?" There's a hint of disbelief in his voice.
Pete lets out a dry chuckle, "Oh, they're eating it up. For some reason, they love the guy."
"What was that Italian's name again?"
"I forgot. But these past two years haven't been the same. It's like he just appeared out of nowhere and started making his presence felt. Even our subsidiary front company in Magnolia City has undergone some changes since then. They claim that he's invested millions there. Millions."
Jared's expression is now a picture of unease and trepidation, "You'd think that with all this influx of cash that we wouldn't be facing a recruiting crisis..."
Pete rolls a shoulder, "Eh, you got a point. Just don't let it leave these four walls. Look, all we do is headhunt for future talent - for both our front-facing subsidiaries and...well, ya know."
Jared muses, "And how exactly do you propose that we tell a sixteen-year-old that we're secretly a Projector Firm with a professional reputation in dealing...with the dead."
He clears his throat and corrects himself, "Oh, I mean...Post-Life Entities."
Pete quirks an eyebrow, "You're asking me?"
"Hey, I'm the nice guy when we usually go out on these...recruiting treks. I'm usually the one who tries to build a rapport. While you sit there and give our potential employee a mean look."
Pete objects, "Oh, c'mon! I--I only do that to make sure that these kids don't make any regretful choices down the line. I don't want someone calling me - twenty years from now - in the middle of the night and cussing me out cuz they feel I--we misled them."
Jared puts his hands on his hips and blows a raspberry, "Shall we let the kid in?"
"Let's clear this mess out first. Besides, legal is probably still with him. You know how...intense they can get."
It isn't long before Shane is guided to a now-cleared-up room. The aircon hums silently in the background. It feels a little chilly, as is typical with commercial air-conditioning units.
The table in the middle of the bright room holds a few folders, a stack of papers, some pencils, pens, a few water bottles, and nothing else.
Pete and Jared are seated next to each other. Shane gingerly sits opposite the dynamic duo and nervously greets them, "Hi."
Pete looks at the teenager from head to toe and observes, "What happened to last Saturday's semi-formal look, huh? Shirt too tight?"
Jared chimes in, "It's fine, it's fine. We here at the Orph--oh, sorry. Err...we here at Gleichner LLC don't have much in the way of a dress code for our interns. But it wouldn't hurt to have a suit jacket for, you know...just in case you need it."
Pete straightens up to face the boy, "Yes. You will have to have a formal outfit to wear during company functions and parties." He smirks when "parties" are mentioned.
Shane merely nods and says, "It's...good to see you guys again. I--I'm sorry if I was delayed--"
Jared holds his hand out, "We know, we know. Ms. Murray from legal can be pretty intimidating. She...uh...didn't go too hard on you, right?"
Shane presses his lips into a thin line and silently shakes his head from side to side.
Jared looks at Pete and nods towards the folder in front of the young candidate, "You mind taking over, buddy?"
Pete's eyes drift to the folder beneath his clasped hands, then to Shane's face once more. He opens the folder and starts, "You know, kid, you really sold yourself short the last time we spoke."
Shane furrows his brows, "Huh?"
Jared says, "Academically, you're way above average. These are some impressive scores you've got here. This is exactly the kind of dedication and academic excellence that...allows...people into our...organization."
Shane shifts in his chair uncomfortably and hesitantly utters, "Thanks, I guess?"
Jared goes on, "Oh, don't mention it. Really, these academic results - believe it or not - grant you a little more than a mile up on many other potential candidates. And we have A LOT to sift through. That doesn't mean it's automatic. There's always room for more improvement."
Pete chimes in with his signature disapproving tone, "Don't get too cocky, kid. You have to show some interest on your part. What we do around here is unconventional, in the very least. And a little eyebrow-raising. Remember you NDA, kid."
Jared produces a printed sheet of paper, "If you'd care to glance through this document real quick...you'll notice a brief list of some of the things that you might have a chance to work on. And should you do well, the doors will be wide open for--for greater opportunities."
Shane skims through the paper in question, his lips moving as he softly mumbles, "Project planning, database management, field logistics, operational assistance..." His face furrows into a skeptical expression.
Pete's smile turns dry, "You're too concerned with just having fun, aren't you, Shane?"
Shane gulps, "Wha...? N--no. I--I'm serious about this, Mr. Pete. Really, I am. But with all due respect, this kinda sounds like the stuff that my dad does."
Jared subtly nudges his co-worker with his elbow, "Ah, yes, your father. He works as a shift supervisor at the oil refinery just nearby. Right?"
Shane side-eyes the duo, "How do you know that?"
Pete dryly says, "Facebook. And your mom was a nurse before...an incident involving a certain medicine mix-up that still has a lot of people up in arms around these parts."
Jared falters for a moment and looks down before clearing his throat, "We do our homework, Shane. There's nothing to be afraid of. Relax. It was just a routine background check. We're not gonna go poking around in your private life just to be nosy, I promise. There are some very important exceptions to privacy and--and confidentiality around here. Remember, all for the greater good. You believe in a greater good, right?"
Shane shrugs, "I guess so, yeah. Do you?"
Pete chuckles, "I like this kid."
Shane hesitates for a moment and then he scratches his neck, "This sounds just like what everyone else back at those stalls were offering. What makes you so different?"
Jared points at Shane and approvingly says, "I like that question. So, what makes Gleichner LLC different, huh? Pete?"
Pete folds his arms, leans back, lifts his chin, and responds, "You tell him." His eyes remain firmly affixed on the boy opposite him.
Shane waits with great interest, and Jared starts, "We believe that there's more to life. For now, put that at the back of your mind, OK? What we're looking out for are young, talented people with bright ideas and the will to implement them. Unconventionality and thinking outside of the box aren't frowned upon here."
Pete takes over, "On the contrary, the weird is where we often find ourselves. Then again, you'll be starting out as an intern. So, don't get too ahead of yourself just yet. If you make it, cool. If not, well...tough luck. No hard feelings."
Jared hastily interrupts, "Pete, no. Y--you mind if we have a word? Outside. In private?"
Pete already gets up, adjusts his suit and says, "Fine by me."
As they both stalk out the door, Shane wipes his forehead and lets out a breath that he didn't even realize he'd been holding in. The silence feels deafening.
Jared looks up at Pete and fiercely asks, "What is it with you, huh?!"
Pete grits his teeth and claps back, "He's not even eighteen, dammit. He should be out there...enjoying life, not getting wrapped up in--in all of this!"
Jared reminds the other man, "Well, we're not recruiting Projectors here, OK? We need people to keep the damn façade up - our front-facing subsidiaries NEED recruits! And if we have to get 'em younger, then that's what we have to do."
Pete clicks his tongue, "What are we even doing here? It's one thing to recruit somebody fresh outta college - that works surprisingly well for us. But it--it's another thing to rope a bunch of hormonal teenagers into this world. There's no guarantee of--of survival..."
Jared sighs and pinches the bridge of his nose, "We can't argue with our directives, OK? The Italian from Magnolia City was pretty clear about this. Our boss's boss's boss loves what we've been doing."
Pete grimly says, "You won't believe half the things that I've heard about the Italian..." His expression shifts from mildly flustered to a little disturbed.
A low, quiet sigh escapes Jared's lips before he asks, "What kind of things? Is it what I've been hearing about him, too?"
"We'll compare notes another time. Look, Shane's a good kid. I don't want him wasting his life away for--for nothing, alright? He might not admit it - or know it - but he's carrying some baggage around. That much emotional...excess...it's volatile."
"I know. I know. We'll see if we can get him to open up a little. And cut the sad grandpa act. Seriously. Be nice."
Pete shrugs, "I'm Canadian. I'm nice by default."
They exchange a brief chuckle before stepping back in. Shane is twiddling with his thumbs and silently staring at his surroundings, taking it all in complete awe.
The silence between the trio lingers, heavy and awkward. Jared breaks it by asking, "So, Shane. Our...files on you don't indicate a special somebody. Of course they won't. Do you...like anybody in that way?"
Shane rubs the lower part of his face and takes his sweet time before quietly responding, "I--I...maybe. Why? Why'd you be so interested in something like that?"
Pete musters up a slight smile and leans forward, "Call it curiosity. We wanna know more about Shane the human being, not Shane the file."
A few beads of sweat form on Shane's brow as the conversation begins to spiral further and further away from his comfort zone. He joins his hands together and wrings them as tightly as he possibly can.
Jared picks up on this nervous tic and reassures the young lad, "Don't worry, kid. Whatever you tell us won't leave this room. We're not gonna call up your mom - or your teachers - and report what you just said, if that's what's bothering you."
Pete puts in, "Yeah. We get it. You're going through an awkward phase in your life. Hormones, bodily changes, all that."
Shane feels a little at ease when that is mentioned. He looks at Jared and shyly admits, "There is somebody, yes."
Jared leans closer and wordlessly gestures for Shane to proceed. He nods weakly, "She--she's two years older to me, though. I--I kinda have a crush on--on her. I know that it's kinda wrong, b--but I can't help it. She--she's so smart and has a great personality. She's also really pretty..."
Pete chuckles, "Ah, young love. So, you're sixteen and she's eighteen? Yeah, that's sure gonna raise some eyebrows. Heh. Jared?"
Jared smirks and declares, "My wife is four years older to me, Shane. I was twenty when I first met her. My advice? Wait for a while. Until then, just go up to her and say 'hi'. If she's as nice as you claim she is, then she isn't gonna take your head off like some kind of horror movie monster. But you don't want to come across like a fucking weirdo, right?"
Shane nods fervently, "Right, right. I--I don't wanna screw up my--my chances with her. A--assuming that I even have one."
Pete reaches forward and squeezes the boy's tense shoulder, "Relax, kid. Relax. It gets better. Usually. Just don't be a weirdo about it. If it doesn't work out, then...there's always somebody else. Call me a cheesy, but I believe that there's somebody out there for...everyone. Everyone deserving of true love, that is."
Shane murmurs, "Wh--why am I getting dating advice from two guys..."
Jared snickers, "You're getting quote-unquote 'dating advice' from a straight guy and a gay guy. Pete here's been married to his husband. And he and Anton are a whole decade apart."
Pete plainly nods, "That's right. But I love him to bits. And that's all that counts as soon as I clock out of my job and go back home at the end of each day. No pressure, kid. Anyway, let's not waste too much of your time."
Shane's lips quiver, "Oh. Y--you're gay? I--I didn't know that. That--that's cool."
Pete puts on some reading glasses and mumbles, "Hmm. Now, we have an interview to conduct. I'll admit, that was a fun little icebreaker. So, Shane...tell us why you'd be a great fit for an esteemed firm such as Gleichner LLC?"
Questions, questions, questions. By the time the informal interview comes to an end, the sun has already set. Pete generously offers to drop Shane back home. Jared notes down something in a small notebook and says that they'll keep in touch.
It wasn't a super stringent interview, all things considered. Shane does feel like he might actually have a shot at getting a job for a company that is nothing but a front for the Orpheus Group.
He doesn't know the real nature of Orpheus yet. He'll be a cog's cog's cog in a far bigger organization whose core specialty is death...life beyond the grave, "life" after demise.
Fun stuff, eh?
During the ride home, Pete somberly advises the teenager, "Even if you do get this gig, you're well within your right to turn it down, y'know? My parents always used to tell me that the world was my oyster...until I told 'em that I was gay. Then, I became the world's fucking oyster. But...I'm not gonna talk to a sixteen-year-old about any of that. It--it's not worth it. You deserve to--to enjoy life, kid."
Shane notices a few tears gathering in Pete's eyes before he abruptly blinks them back away. It makes Pete tighten his grip around the steering wheel. He must be feeling some...heavy emotions right about now.
As the boy looks down at his legs, he feels his eyes growing damp. Pete's words make him reflect on the difficult path that people like him have indubitably been on.
Shane curiously queries, "Wh--what was it like?"
Pete sniffs, "What was what like?"
"Growing up gay back when people like you didn't have much in the way of--of rights, let alone dignity."
"They don't teach you this stuff at school?"
"A bit, but some people sorta objected to that kind of history being discussed in the classroom."
"Tch. The usual suspects. Bastards. It was different back then. VERY different. If you really wanna know, Shane...I barely hung on. I moved from one shitty, low-paying job to the next, always on the fringes, never feeling truly...at home. Never feeling like I belonged."
Shane offers, "I--I'm so sorry to hear that. It--it got better, right?"
Pete isn't too sure, "For some people, sure. For others? I don't know. I went to a lot of funerals before I turned thirty, kid. A lot."
Shane further prods, "H--how did they die? I'm sorry if I overstepped boundaries."
Pete takes a heavy sigh before continuing on. "Suicides, mainly. The rest were either AIDS or hate crimes. We Canadians always like comparing ourselves to our neighbors down south, but the truth is we got just as many problems as they do."
Shane blinks, "Like?"
Pete takes a sharp turn on a curve. His voice still isn't as steady as one would like it to be, "Like how the Trudeau government is slowly shaping up to be more of the same. I could go on, but you deserve a goodnight's rest tonight, so I'll just leave it at that, alright?"
Shane states, "Y'know, I'm actually interested in these kinds of conversations."
"Uh-huh. Do well at school, kid. Live your life, be happy, make others happy, do what you can to make the world a--a better place than the sorry state you found it in. Try not to let...trouble dictate your path."
"I'll keep that in mind...Pete."
Many days later...
Pete and Jared are seated opposite one another in a small, homely sort of restaurant. The sun is hidden behind a thick layer of clouds. Jared sips some fizzy drink from a tall glass and sets it down gently while Pete aggressively cuts some steak that is a tad undercooked.
Jared grimaces at how his colleague is struggling, "So, what's the verdict, Pete?"
Pete's sharp knife finally manages to get through the damned steak, "The jury's still out on that. We still have to wait for his medical results - that's gonna take its sweet time."
Jared lowers his voice and complains, "I can feel the Italian breathing down my neck, Pete; we need recruits. Hell, we need Projectors, too. Did you get the recent memo? How the fuck are we supposed to meet these damn quotas? What are they smoking down south, huh?"
While chewing his food, Pete sarcastically responds, "You can go down there and ask 'em yourself."
Jared faintly scoffs, "Like I'm taking a fucking chance going down there. It's crazy! That Trump guy is all kinds of nasty."
Pete smacks his lips, "Hmm. Tell me about it. Anton has to go for something work-related, but I'm not exactly too thrilled about the prospect of my husband going to a country slowly descending into fascism. We kinda had an argument about it last night. Yeah. He insists that he'll be safe, but...I dunno, Jared. I dunno."
Jared's eyebrows shoot up, "I'm sorry to hear that. I hope that you're both able to see eye-to-eye and make it through this tough patch."
Pete weakly nods his head, "Yup. Me too. And how's your lady keeping?"
Some kind of mischievous smirk plays on the edges of Jared's lips, "She's a keeper. But she kept asking about my job. And I have to give her the standard, rehearsed reply every time. I--I really hate not being allowed - or able - to talk about work with--with anyone."
"Yup. We can't even talk about our fucking salaries without worrying about some--" Pete stops mid-sentence and looks around the restaurant, as if trying to see if anybody (or anything) might be eavesdropping on the duo.
Jared chuckles and takes another sip of his fizzy drink, "What? Worrying about some PLE listening in on us and then reporting it back to our bosses? Heh, it's happened before, alright. That's what ya get for dealing with the dead. The restless dead."
Pete quakes and stirs his coffee with the spoon for an extra second before asking, "Yeah, the nosy, restless dead. They make for great spies. Once Shane's medical results come back, w--would that mean he'd be cleared for...?" The disbelief makes him trail off.
Jared takes on a rather dry tone, "It's a formality, OK? Orpheus isn't stupid enough to throw a literal minor into a goddamn nest of PLEs."
Pete cuts off another piece of his steak and struggles to chew on it, "You think a kid like him is cut out for that sorta thing? Investigative Consulting? Field ops?"
Jared sniffs, "Our private research has indicated that Shane has had some Out Of Body Experiences - OBEs - when he was a kid. It took some time to trace his history, but we finally found the Internet forum that he used to post on before the whole damn thing got archived. It's him, alright."
Pete shakes his head, "I just don't like spying on people like that."
"Well...we couldn't exactly ask him, could we? 'Oh, hey, remember that time you were a little kid and--'"
"I get it, I get it. So, what's our plan for the rest of the day, huh? I don't wanna go home just yet, Jared."
The younger man fixes his hair and answers, "We need to check up on Diane. She's currently OTB for the next few days, but management wants us to go over some things with her."
The older man takes a large gulp of his coffee, "Why us? Wouldn't the ILP be sufficient enough to cover everyone's bases, rather than us two? We--we just recruited her outta college. That's where our job officially ends." His words come out muddled.
Jared has an uneasy look playing on his features, "You don't understand, Pete. That Italian down in Magnolia City isn't just some ordinary guy. He's got pull, he's got leverage. Hell, he's got the whole damn board by their fucking balls...and we're all paying for it. Truth be told, I'd be surprised if--if we'll even make the next quarter. At the pace things are going now...and those damn quotas?"
Pete's expression shifts from disinterest to unease, "Yeah. And if half the goddamn rumors I--I've been hearing about this guy are true...then, oh boy, we're in for a world of pain."
An hour later...
The dynamic duo find themselves at a beach that is somewhat empty today. The sun is still hidden from view, but not fully set just yet. The sky above is a little gloomy and ominous-looking, a testament to the days ahead, mayhaps?
A few people are out and about on this gloomy day. Amidst the stillness and relative silence, Jared and Pete walk along the beach's shore, their footprints slightly impressioned in the sandy beach by their receding steps.
A small tide comes in and washes away a few leftover footprints and hastily put together sandcastles.
A young lady is lying flat on her back. The beach mat under her is striped. She's wearing a bikini and a pair of large sunglasses. A faint smirk dances on the edges of her lips. She hears their approach before either of them have a chance to speak.
Diane stays where she is and calmly mutters, "Boys."
Pete nudges Jared and faintly mumbles, "How does she do that?"
Jared replies, "Skimmers. We recruited her straight outta that fancy art college. Of all the Laments, Skimmers are the most popular...and most flexible. They're able to move between life and death flexibly. How do you not remember this, seriously?"
Diane chimes in, "Because it was years ago. And I'm not the only one you boys weren't...wholly truthful to." Her voice is velvety, smooth, and seductive. She is a fair-skinned lady in her thirties. Her bleached hair cascades down onto her broad shoulders. Her presence seems...evanescent, yet oddly charming and a bit soothing.
The Orpheus Projector gets up from her flat position and looks up at the duo. She curiously tilts her head and waits for either one of them to speak up.
Jared takes the initiative, "It's good to see you again after so long. How's your uh...mini vacation treating you?"
Diane languidly gestures to her surroundings with one of her long, elegant fingers, "I am, quite literally, On The Beach. The air is perfect, the surroundings are breathtaking. I still have some time before I'm cleared to go back in. Might as well make the best use of my downtime, eh, boys?"
Pete nods. His eyes drift over to Diane's toned legs, "Been working out lately?"
Diana smirks, "An Orpheus Projector needs to stay fit. PLEs pack quite a nasty punch - especially my last Spook. Wish I could tell you more, but you know how that chick from legal gets if she even gets a hint that I've been speaking out of turn. She's a real stickler for the confidentiality clause in our NDAs."
Jared chuckles and notes, "Ms. Murray says 'hi'."
She does an elaborate stretch and softly groans, "Oh, my last op..." She trails off mid-sentence. It's clear that she wants to say more, but that kind of talk is more suited for the Incident Learning Processes - post-op interrogations, basically.
Pete slowly chuckles, "We wouldn't want to ruin your vacation time. We're just here to check on you, make sure that you're keeping well."
Diane fishes something out of her beach bag - it's a pack of gum. She offers a stick to both Jared and Pete. They politely accept and pocket it away, not really having an interest in chewing some gum.
Diane's voice turns dry, "And go over a few things, eh? Grab a seat, boys; don't just tower over me like that. It--it makes me nervous."
Jared looks around and finds no place to sit, except down on the sandy ground. Pete shrugs and joins her, leaving Jared awkwardly standing.
Diane adjusts her bikini and fixes Jared with a stern, questioning stare.
Jared grimaces and quips, "My wife got this suit for me. If I get even a speck of anything nasty on it, she--she'll be super mad."
Back at Shane's house...
Kerri, Shane's mom, is seated at the dining table. She is beside herself and sobbing rather profusely. Her husband tries his best to console her, "Hey, hey, sweetie. It's gonna be OK."
She sniffs loudly and retorts, "Is it?! Is it?! I'm like the pariah of the neighborhood, hon! I--I went to the pharmacy to grab some stuff. I overheard people talking behind my back. The things they were saying--"
"Shh, shh. It's not worth getting riled up over. Let them talk. WE know the truth - you're not responsible for what happened. B--besides, it was an honest mistake, right? Could've happened to anyone."
Kerri sighs deeply, "It was a long and intensive shift. I was supposed to go home hours ago. Yet, I stayed and kept on powering through. N--not because I wanted to, but because it felt like the right thing to do, you know?"
Kerri's husband gently squeezes her hand, "I know, I know. For what it's worth, you'll always be the best damn nurse this side of the lake."
She lightly shoves him, "Oh, c'mon. Y--you're just saying that to sound cute."
He sincerely looks into her eyes and earnestly states, "I mean it, Kerri. We - me and Shane - mean it."
Kerri shakes her head, "I'm worried about Shane."
"Why? He's doing really well at school. He's avoided trouble and he doesn't ask us for anything that we can't afford - the model son!"
"Yes. And...that's all good and well. But I worry about his future. Speaking of, how's the oil refinery these days? Any openings for teenaged boys?"
Shane's father slightly winces, "My son - our son - is not gonna follow in my footsteps. How was that whole job fair thing of his the other week? He didn't tell me much, did he say anything to you?"
Kerri clicks her tongue out of frustration, "Nope. Kids these days, am I right? Listen, what I--I did, I don't want it reflecting badly on him. I know that I shouldn't have done this, but I went through his phone the other night."
The dad's brows pull together, "You did what, now?"
Kerri extends her hands in a placating gesture, "I couldn't help myself, OK? And his phone password thing is so laughable. I wanted to see if anyone from school or social media was sending him nasty messages. Mainly nasty messages about me. Honey, we--when that medicine mix-up happened, it made national news."
(Adding insult to injury, Kerri's own union refused to stand up for her through this trying ordeal. And she was always on time with the dues money!)
Shane's dad murmurs, "The headlines were bad enough. And when they found out about Shane, I was worried that we'd have to move or--or worse..."
"Worse?"
"Like, what if some idiot targeted our boy because of...y'know?"
Kerri nods, "Hm. Yeah. Now, look at me. Ex-nurse, huh?"
Her husband puts his hand on top of her hand and rubs it gently, "You were overworked to the point of exhaustion, honey. Raising a kid is not easy. We both worked--work hard to ensure that we could put food on the table, right? This...mix-up, it could have happened to anybody else in your shoes."
"I dunno, hon. I dunno. Maybe it could have. But it happened to me. At least n--nobody died, right? I--I mean, the complications that arose soon after were pretty damn messy, but...nobody died, OK? I just don't want anybody taking it out on our son. He's just a child. And I--I don't know what I'd do if something bad were to happen to him because of a small mistake I made years ago."
She is almost at the point of breaking down in tears. Poor lady.
He reassures her, "Nobody will, alright? And please, next time, don't go through our son's phone like some kind of nutty helicopter parent, OK?"
Kerri weakly nods, "OK."
The front door creaks open and Shane calls out, "Dad? M--Mom? You home?"
The parents call out in unison, "We're in here!"
Shane takes his backpack off and briskly walks over to the dining table, where his parents are seated. He does a quick double take before asking, "What's for dinner tonight?"
Kerri wipes the few tears away from her cheeks, "Meatloaf. Get changed first."
Shane lowers his head a little, "Yes, mom."
His father asks, "How was school today?"
Shane shrugs, "It was alright? How was work?"
"More of the same, less of anything different. Go on, get changed and join us. Don't worry, Shane, everything's gonna be just fine, OK?"
The teenager wordlessly nods and heads upstairs to freshen up, finish some homework, and do some web-surfing on the side. He eventually hobbles down the stairs, eats his dinner, exchanges a few pleasantries with mama and papa bear before shuffling back to bed to the familiar comfort of his room. He also finishes watching an episode (or two) of some random TV show that's got his attention this week.
Kerri knocks on Shane's bedroom door and asks if she can come in. He shuts his laptop's lid and beckons for her to take a seat.
"Shane...how have things been for you at school? You didn't tell me much about that job fair. Was there...nothing that interested you?"
Shane licks his lips, "Not exactly, no? Why?"
Kerri measures her words before speaking them, "No pressure. I...I...just wanted you to know that your father is taking on some extra shifts at the oil refinery. Now, don't worry, it's absolutely nothing for you to get all concerned over, OK?"
Shane's eyes widen, "Wha--?"
She moves closer to him and places both her hands on his tense shoulders, "Right now, things are a little tight for us."
Shane softly sighs and lowers his head, "Oh. I--I understand. I get it. That's why you've been on my case - because you want me to find a job so--"
Kerri quickly shakes her head, "No, no! That's not it. Hmph. OK, yes, that might've been why I was so hard on you. And I'm sorry for that. Be that as it may, Shane...your mom's got to ask a hard, uncomfortable question."
Shane avoids making eye contact with his mother, "Uh...go ahead."
"Were you ever going to tell me that you have a crush on a girl who's two years your senior?"
Shane is VERY taken aback by this and nervously blinks, "How did you find--I--I don't know what you mean..."
Kerri's expression softens, "Honey...I know you're at that age. But now is hardly the time to go messing around with someone...who's...older than you. Legally speaking--"
Shane grimaces, "Oh my god, mom. No! Stop! Ew! How--how did you know about this?!"
With a look of shame all over her face, Kerri timidly confesses, "I went through your phone--"
The boy explodes, "YOU DID WHAT?!" His face reddens to an extent that is almost alarming to see, let alone to be near.
Kerri raises her hands, "And I'm sorry, alright? I--I wanted to see if anybody had been sending threats to you. Y--Y'know, about--"
Shane rubs his face with both of his shaky, sweaty hands, "People have moved on from that! They don't even care that I--I'm the son of the nurse who mixed some medicines up and--and caused a few bad reactions in, like, sixteen people who took the medication--"
Uh-oh.
Kerri's mouth goes slightly agape when Shane so nonchalantly states what is still an extremely delicate issue.
The poor boy continues to rant, "That gave you no right to go through my damn phone! NOT EVERYTHING HAS TO BE ABOUT YOU, OK?! STOP making it all about yourself all the goddamn time! It's fucking frustrating, ugh! I can't believe that you'd do something like that!!"
Kerri recoils at the raw intensity of her son's harsh words and, in her own way, takes it in practiced silence. She composes herself and silently leaves her child's room, not bothering to say a single word or to make further inquiries.
The door softly closes. Shane sighs in frustration before harshly grabbing his phone and changing the lock screen pin code to something...more challenging, to put it lightly. As soon as he does so, another annoying text from Matt comes in.
It reads: "SJWs Getting Rekt Compilation #55" A YouTube link follows the initial message, along with a string of random emojis.
Shane groans and deletes the damn text message before tossing his phone aside and relaxing on his bed. He vacantly stares at the ceiling, his mind a tumultuous mess of confusion, anger, frustration, and everything in-between. It's hard to focus, it's hard to process, it's just hard all around.
Shane's sleep is restless to the point where he stays up for the remainder of "bedtime" watching educational videos on YouTube before dozing off at around five in the morning.
After a few minutes of tossing and turning, he's up. The boy groggily makes his way to the bathroom to get ready for another day of learning and all that stuff. He stares at his ragged reflection as he half-heartedly brushes his teeth, rinses his mouth, and viciously spits it all over the sink.
After bathing and getting dressed, Shane heads to the kitchen to get some breakfast, which he scarfs down at a pace that seemingly defies his usually calm and collected demeanor.
"Ready for school?" Kerri nervously asks. A gentle smile plays on the corners of her mouth.
Shane walks out the front door without acknowledging her. Mom decides to give her son some space. While she watches her offspring walk away, a few tears roll down her flustered cheeks. She hastily wipes them away, sniffles a bit, and goes back to tending to the dishes and putting some food in the fridge for later.
Kerri's husband is working overtime, now. So, it's not likely that he'll be home on time for supper.
The school day is fairly mundane. Shane usually takes his studies seriously, diligently completes any homework and assignments, and even actively engages with a few teachers who encourage further discussion on various subject matters.
Today, however, he is somewhat spaced-out. He vacantly stares out the window for most of the classes, the words of his overworked (and woefully underpaid) teachers merely going in one ear and smoothly exiting from the other. Shane has other things occupying his mind...or so he thinks.
Over the next few days, Shane's sleeping gets progressively worse. Worse enough to the point of concern. Bad enough that it even warrants a trip to the doctor. His medical results are yet to come back. Shane hasn't exactly told his parents about the whole interning with Gleichner LLC thing.
He doesn't want to needlessly get their hopes up - or heap any additional pressure on himself. He reckons that if it works out, then it works out. If not, then no biggie. Shrug and move on.
At the doctor's office, a hunched over, baggy-eyed Shane explains his sleeping issues, "I--I haven't been getting enough rest."
The doctor - a Punjabi man in his mid-thirties - nods patiently and asks, "Are you on any medication at the moment?"
Shane's father looks tired and concerned in equal measures. He answers, "Not that we know of, no. It all started a--a few days ago."
Kerri is beside herself and merely nods along to what her husband is saying.
The doctor asks a few more routine questions before writing out a prescription for some sleeping pills and sending Shane home, with the added advice, "Avoid excessive intake of caffeine. Also, make sure to reduce any and all screen time at least one hour prior to bedtime. If you do not have one, I would strongly recommend that you install a blue light filter on your devices."
The sleeping pills, for their part, only mildly help. As a result, Shane is now lagging behind his peers in terms of overall academic performance. It gets so bad that he even fainted as soon as Chemistry classes ended.
The school nurse expressed concern over not only his health, but also his posture and ragged appearance. He's also lost quite a bit of weight. One can't help but wonder what is going on over here.
At the Gleichner LLC office...
Jared and Pete are staring at a computer monitor while a deeply troubled expression colors both of their visages. Shane's medical records have finally come through, along with a few other relevant pieces of information.
Jared gulps and breaks the grim silence hanging over them, "Th--this can't be, right?"
Pete flatly says, "We had the tests run. Not twice, but thrice. It's real, alright. It pains me to say this, but the kid's a ticking timebomb. He could go down at any time...and never wake up again."
Jared gulps. His lips quiver a little, "We--we gotta inform him, right? I mean, it's only fair that his parents know. Pete??"
Pete slowly nods, "It's such a shame, isn't it? He's never gonna be able to experience a lot of the things that you and I took for granted when we were growing up. It's not fair."
Jared puts his hand on the mouse and scrolls down through Shane's file, "And are those recommendations for real? Jesus Christ, have they lost their minds?! They actually want us to recruit him for--for--"
Pete remains oddly composed, "Field ops. I know, I was disgusted when I read it, too. Hell, they even had the audacity to send some kind of mockup design for a special Cradle that would be capable of holding him once he...once he...y'know?"
Jared shakes his head, "This is insanity. It's not what I signed up for. I signed up to recruit grown people into Orpheus the right way, not take advantage of kids. Not--not--" He gets up to go grab himself a glass of water...or something stronger.
Pete rubs the bridge of his nose and groans softly.
Jared returns with two glasses of booze. He hands one over to his colleague and recommends, "Going forward, I get a feeling that we're gonna be needing a lot of that."
Pete accepts the drink and takes a slow sip of it, "Mm-hmm. Unfortunately, our hands are tied in this matter. If Shane...goes into a coma, our orders are to make contact with his parents and begin...the proceedings."
Jared derisively states, "That Italian is off his rockers if he thinks that people are gonna be OK with this."
Pete calmly states, "You do know that our youngest recruit, to date, was just seven-years-old. And the Orpheus Group didn't...recruit her because of her doodles, Jared. She had a way of--of communicating with PLEs. 'Latent Projection abilities,' they called it. It was simply too good of an opportunity to pass up on."
"Jesus Christ. 'Was'. Do I even care to ask what happened to that poor little girl?"
Pete gravely replies, "There are holes in the world of the dead - too many for us to count. That little kid might've slipped into one. Or worse, took a peek behind the Shroud."
"Fuck."
Pete sniffs and takes another sip of his alcoholic beverage, "Point is: we need to be prepared. Something bad could happen to Shane at any moment now. And we need to be ready to swoop in and--"
Jared loosens his tie and grunts, "Swoop in like a bunch of slimy assholes and make an irresistible pitch to the kid's folks. Yeah, I got it. And what if he doesn't make it, huh? Say we get him onboard with this madness, how the fuck are we gonna handle...a comatose teenager, huh?"
Pete downs his glass in a few swallows before responding, "We'll need someone capable - someone competent - to guide him through the world of the restless dead. And I know that you know who exactly I'm talking about." He gives his colleague a knowing look.
Jared mutters, "Diane...you think that she'll be up for it? She's still OTB."
"It might be short notice, but she'll answer the call when we come knocking, I guarantee it. Look, it's not gonna be easy. And I--I'm not too thrilled about what the future holds, but this is...the only good option on our hands."
Jared scoffs, "You mean the least-shitty of our options, right? I get that Shane's gonna require intensive, round-the-clock medical care. And his parents aren't exactly in a place to afford that kind of stuff."
Pete clicks his tongue out of frustration, "Let Orpheus handle his care, then. The alternatives - well, let's just say that I wouldn't want to be a fly on the wall when discussing those."
Jared's eyebrows shoot up, "Uh-huh. Me neither. So, swooping in and putting him in a prototype Cradle would be the most humane thing to do, right?"
Pete points out, "If his old posts on that Internet forum are anything to go by, then he has experience with the dead - he just doesn't realize it. And he seems empathetic enough to deal with sticky situations that we usually have a hard time getting regular Projectors to work with."
"Uh-huh. And is Diane the right person to be mentoring him through all of this? What about his emotional state? He's gonna need a lot of guidance in that regard. Especially considering what's about to hit the fan."
Pete sternly says, "She'll help with his emotional regulation, don't worry. We'll talk to her. And we better do it fast. These results show that our boy doesn't have much time left."
Jared tries to be a little optimistic, "He probably has a few years left..."
Sadly, it all happened so quickly. One day, as Shane was preparing to leave home, he had a seizure and collapsed on the porch of his house.
Kerri screamed out and called 911. She frantically held onto her only child as he lay on the ground, shaking and jerking.
The emergency personnel rushed him to the nearest hospital. Shane's father was still working at the oil refinery, so he had to put it all aside and rush to the hospital.
Pete and Jared were informed about the situation. A few other representatives from the Orpheus Group itself (not the Gleichner LLC front company) were present at the hospital. The two recruiters took Shane's broken parents aside and patiently explained...everything to them.
Forms were signed by the both of them, but it was clear that it was done under a bit of duress. The Orpheus legal team can be quite an intimidating presence for two ordinary people like Shane's parents.
Jared tried his best to console Shane's mom and dad, but he had to maintain a professional distance. Pete remained stony and composed throughout most of the discussions, but even he softened up towards the end, expressing a modicum of compassion.
"He's a good kid. And he will be taken care of. You have our word. You have my word on that," Pete plainly stated before he had to go see to some other work-related matters. The life of a Projection Firm's recruiter is never quite dull!
Diane had a long conversation with Shane's mom in private, discussing matters of concern. She sort of wanted to get a feel for things before being sent back into the world of ghosts, spirits, and other restless entities from beyond the grave.
She also wanted to know a few things about Shane before being deployed to mentor (and possibly protect) the teenager from potential supernatural threats.
Diane expressed her condolences before taking her leave; she promises to take good care of Kerri's son. She now changes into a skintight bodysuit. After tugging on it, she submerges herself into a custom pod that's located deep under the Gleichner LLC building.
Some of the nearby scientists and technical types go over a few last-minute adjustments on the machinery that is going to help keep her physical body - her "Meat" - alive. Once all is green, Diane places her hands on her chest, takes in a lung-full of oxygen, and then submerges into the thick liquid inside of the pod.
In mere seconds, her vitals drop to zero (as is to be expected). Her brain activity, however, goes on as normal. After a few hitches, it stabilizes. The rest of the staff give their OKs for her to go ahead with the jump.
Gloomy green lights cover most of the minimalistic underground facility. Dozens upon dozens of almost similar-looking Cradles are either occupied or being cleaned up for further use. Most of them are equipped with various tubes and wires.
Once Diane has completely Flatlined, the temperature in the tank hits minus eighty degrees Fahrenheit. This helps to slow the Meat's decay, as it were.
Diane now finds herself in a dark and hazy place. High-pitched and spooky noises emanate from all around her. The Skimmer shakes her head a few times, blinks, and looks down to see a winding silver cord that seems to have a life of its own. It's connected from her belly button to some place that corresponds to where her actual body would sort of be.
The material and immaterial realms do not always perfectly line up with each other.
"Huh. That's far."
Regardless, Diane taps into her vast experience and knowledge when navigating through this ethereal terrain. She spots...things from the corner of her eye. Oddities. Abnormalities. Phenomena that defy the laws of physics and probably even known reality itself.
Grating echoes and vile scents chip away at the woman's (still frazzled) senses. Regardless, she pushes on to her destination. After closing her eyes and sifting through the many horrors of this world between worlds, Diane feels like she can...almost sense Shane.
A presence, faint, yet quite unmistakable, draws her closer. Diane senses so much confusion and fright emanating from the presence in question.
Either way, the Skimmer cautiously approaches, "S--Shane?"
Shane's disembodied consciousness looks around. He appears to be slightly translucent. He fades into and out of view before stabilizing. The boy stares at his palms and struggles to formulate a sentence.
Diane was briefed on the whole situation and everything that has occurred up till this point. She makes sure to appear as easygoing and non-threatening as possible, "Hey, buddy. My name's Diane. I'm a friend of Jared and Pete. You know them, right?"
Shane looks like he's nodding his head. He looks so frightened and...lost. Every little sound and odd sensation causes him to jerk and cower in fear, "I...where am I?"
His voice sounds heavy and almost delayed.
Diane keeps her distance, "You're in a safe place. Your mom and dad are worried about you. But don't worry, we're here. We're gonna take good care of you now, alright?"
Shane faintly asks, "Who's we?" His lips barely move, but his voice carries clearly enough through the surreal soundscape of this hazy place.
Diane clears her throat, "The Orpheus Group. You ever heard of the legend of Orpheus and Eurydice? Buckle up, cuz this is gonna be a helluva ride, kid."
Many weeks later...
Shane is now submerged in a pod made just for him. He has still not woken up from his coma, and it's not likely that he ever will. His parents do drop by to visit him, but it's clear that they're NOT supposed to tell a single soul about the things they see down here.
Kerri's face is a mess from all the crying. Her husband tries to stay composed, but he can't. And who can really blame them?
For all intents and purposes, Shane is now an Orpheus Projector. Their youngest (known) recruit to date. Given his rather empathetic nature, he accompanies Diane and helps to resolve some or the other matter pertaining to the many PLEs that are encountered.
At one point, Shane asked, "Are my parents still aware of me? Do they...stop by?"
Diane snickered, "They haven't pulled ya off life support. And...yes, they do stop by. Even Jared and Pete drop by. One of the scientists told me that Pete sat by your fancy Cradle and played a song from his guitar. Jared sang. I was told that it was acceptable, heh."
Shane narrowed his eyes, "Ah, that would explain the uh...familiar echo I heard a few...days back, right?"
"Maybe. C'mon, we got some more restless PLEs in Ottawa."
Shane slightly grimaces, "More vampire victims? Again?"
Diane levitates a few inches off the ground, "It looks to be that way, yeah. Race you to the city's border? Last one to cross the line's a rotten egg!"
Shane's smile grows a bit wider. Even he begins to float up and match her altitude. It'll take a lot of time to match her speed. He's slowly getting good at placating the dead and putting their deeply troubled psyches at ease.
And thus begins another day in the "life" of two unlikely partners in a Projection Firm.
Now that he's technically an employee of the Orpheus Group, Shane does get compensated. But certain loopholes (introduced quite recently) ensure that the compensation is strictly non-monetary.
Some smooth-talking lawyer type argued that Orpheus was already doing enough by seeing to Shane's medical care. Besides, why would a comatose teenager need a salary, right? His family could certainly use the extra cash, but...he's technically not a full employee (on paper and due to legal reasons, he's an intern) until he wakes up again and is able to actually apply for the position at the organization.
It's not exactly the perfect scenario.
One fine evening, Jared and Pete are going over some files for even more potential recruits. A light rain beats down on their office windows, the streetlights casting eerie, long shadows all around.
Jared huffs a sigh, "So, ready to finally meet the Italian?"
Pete turns a few papers over and dryly murmurs, "Can't say that I'm looking forward to it. You?"
"He wants to meet us at night - that alone confirms almost ninety percent of the rumors about him, right?"
"Mm-hmm. Sure does. Remind me, again. Why's he coming?"
Jared stifles a sigh, "To check in on our youngest recruit. Remember, Shane suffers from Fatal Familial Insomnia - FFI for short. One day, he fainted and went into a coma. He hasn't woken up since then. However, he does have latent Projection abilities. His empathetic nature is proving to be deeply beneficial to an experienced Projector when encountering - and dealing with - PLEs."
He goes on, "Fatal Familial Insomnia is an extremely rare genetic prion disease. It usually appears in adulthood, but Shane's was some kind of an early-onset mutation. There's nothing that could have been done to--to prevent this."
Pete stares at his own notes and proceeds, "Yeah. It's a rare, inherited prion disease that progressively destroys sleep regulation and leads to death. It arises from a specific mutation in the PRNP gene, causing abnormal folding of the prion protein and severe degeneration of the thalamus, the brain region controlling sleep and autonomic functions."
He sniffs and struggles to read his own handwriting, "Uhm...the hallmark is progressively worsening insomnia, followed by autonomic hyperactivity, motor incoordination, and...cognitive decline. Visual hallucinations, weight loss, dysarthria, and dysphagia are frequent. Sleep studies reveal loss of slow-wave and rapid eye movement sleep."
Jared sums it up, "Some of the symptoms include the following: inability to sleep, paranoia, hallucinations, autonomic dysfunction, and--and eventual coma...or--"
Pete cuts him off, "No. D--don't say it, Jared. Just don't. We have to have some hope that Shane will wake up one day. We--we have to hope against all hope itself." The sincerity behind the older man's words is evident, but there is some dread there, as well.
Jared makes some amendments to his own notes, "Apparently, the Italian is sending someone ahead of him. She supposedly acts on his behalf and is even authorized to speak on his behalf. Hell, we're even supposed to give her a full, private tour of our Gleichner LLC facilities."
"Ah. I have her name somewhere around here...just a sec..." Pete trails off and starts to shuffle through the unceremonious mess and clutter that is his desk, "Aha! Gotcha! Her name's...Lena Akira?"
Jared dryly nods, "That's right. C'mon, she's due in a few hours. We can go over our notes and convoluted explanations on the drive to the airport. Be sure to print out a copy of the terms of Shane's quote-unquote 'internship'."
Pete incredulously mumbles to himself, "She's from Magnolia City, too?"
Jared chuckles briefly, "From what I've managed to piece together, Lena Akira used to work for us. That's why it was so easy to find out more about her. Not as an Orpheus Projector, mind you. She was an employee at a front of ours in Magnolia City, USA. I'll explain everything on the way, Pete. It's a doozy, heh."
"She rose up pretty fast. Now, she's essentially the Italian's right-hand woman."
"Mm-hmm. C'mon, let's go. I wanna swing by Tim Horton's and grab a coffee. How's Anton doing?"
And with that, the two recruiters grab their things and prepare to head out into the rainy night. The dark streets of this part of Canada await, full of promise and mystery, full of restlessness and secrets just waiting to be buried.
Or unveiled.
S5: Skinner Man
The year is 2000. Y2K! Yippee! Turn of not only the century but also the millennium. The suburbs in this little town are truly breathtaking in every conceivable sense of the word.
Houses of (more or less) similar shapes and sizes sit on opposite ends of an immaculate street. Brown picket fences help to delineate what'd otherwise be murky property lines. Water sprinklers gush over freshly shorn lawns in a perfect geometric pattern.
Some front gardens have pretty flowerbeds and tidy little hedges. A few of the lawns are even decorated by those colorful little plastic pinwheel toys that spin when the wind gives it a little go. And the winds are quite strong, keeping the little pinwheels in perpetual motion.
The kids really like it.
Early in the wee hours of the morning, the sun is yet to make itself known to this slice of suburbia. An almost gloomy gray color washes over everything like a cold wave of drear.
In a rather unassuming duplex house with a garage, a mailbox has a small plastic flag that is flipped to an upward position and a little bronze number three hanging by the door, a teenager on a bike hastily tosses a paper straight at the front door.
A shiver runs up his spine every single time he passes by this house. But being that he has been riding the same route for most of his young life, the teen knows exactly what he must do - deliver papers to every house on the block. They paid for it, so they deserve to get their paper, no matter what he personally thinks of this particular address...and the people therein.
A howling wind begins to pick up. Certain windchimes on front porches begin to sing their strange, tinny song. A few leaves and other uncleared bits of trash scuttle across the road. The little pinwheels continue to spin in the growing wind.
The winds around here weren't always like this, so intense and unrelenting. No. There was a time when the breeze was light, cool and refreshing.
Nowadays, it's just too windy for some peoples' liking.
The teenager on his bike finishes delivering the rest of the papers in the area. His stubby legs carry him down the block, his bike rattling beneath him. He passes by house number three again and nearly falls off his bike.
At the window of the top floor, he makes brief eye contact with a pair of eyes that are peering right at him through the sheer curtains. The boy pedals faster, not turning around to face the window again.
Clark clicks his tongue and draws the curtain closed. He steps away from the window and looks over his shoulder at his room - his wife, Lily is fast asleep, a silky eye mask covering her face. He sits down on his side of the bed and strokes her arm.
The eye mask came with the pajama set that Lily is currently wearing. It was a gift from Clark for their second wedding anniversary and he's quite proud of his choice.
He faintly smiles, gets up and leaves the bedroom, closing the door behind him.
Clark's legs take him down the carpeted stairs. He walks into the kitchen and opens the fridge. His gray eyes immediately flit over to a large jug of orange juice sitting on the shelf. He licks his lips and takes out the jug.
He unscrews the plastic cap and pours a bit of that stuff into his open mouth. A few drops fall from the corner of his lips. He wipes them away with the back of his hand.
From there, he proceeds to fix himself a few pieces of really burnt toast. Like, nearly charred to an inedible crisp. With a plate full of blackened toast, he sits at the island counter, chewing away.
There is something about deeply burnt toast that now appeals to him. He peruses through the paper, chews ferociously and glances up at the wall clock.
With his mouth full of food, Clark stands up and steps outside. He looks at his surroundings with mild disinterest. He does an obligatory dry wave at a neighbor passing by in a shiny sedan.
Clark stands ramrod straight and keeps watching. A little girl - no more than nine-years-old, most likely - falls off her pristine new bicycle.
Her parents are in the house, oblivious to the child's predicament. Clark's loud, deep, and booming voice calls out, "Mrs. Goldberg! It looks like your Ruby's having riding troubles again!"
The little girl, Ruby, stands up and brushes herself off. The kid's mother comes hurtling out of the house with a frantic look in her eyes. She quickly checks that her daughter is fine and then thanks Clark for informing her.
"No worries, Mrs. Goldberg. Just being a neighbor."
Clark snickers and heads back inside. In the bathroom, he brings a shaving blade to take out a few bits of facial hair that the barber failed to take care of.
His fingers run through his thick dark hair, his eyes gazing intently at himself in the mirror. His features are sharp and angular. Like his wife, he is in his thirties.
Until 1993, he was an HR manager - and he certainly looks the part! Now, he works in public services as some sort of bureaucrat. Needless to say, when they have what-do-your-parents-do-for-work during school day, he's probably not gonna be invited, let alone asked to come.
The kids don't understand the nature of their father's occupation - they used to understand his whole HR schtick, but this explanation just goes over their heads. At least Lily's job as a saleswoman is a whole lot easier to comprehend.
Clark bathes and is now dressed in a sharp black suit with a silver tie that complements his eyes.
Part of the whole government bureaucrat vibe involves putting in a great deal of effort into one's appearance. His hair is neatly combed, gelled, and styled.
Clark heads through the hall, stopping by the children's rooms. He and Lily currently have two of those. They have been seriously discussing having number three.
(Times were different back then and kids were a whole lot more affordable to have, feed, sustain, educate, clothe, et cetera, et cetera.)
Clark's income alone puts the entire family in a higher income bracket than many of the other households on the block. As such, Lily has been able to cut her hours and spend more time taking care of the house and the children.
Lily is taking her breakfast - something saner-looking and tastier than charred bread - at the sofa. Her blue eyes are glued to the TV screen and the morning news. Clark walks over and plants a kiss on her cheek.
Lily chuckles, "Aww, honey. What's that awful smell? Lemme guess? Burnt toast? Again? Y'know, it really creeps the kids out. That being said, we should get ourselves a new toaster. I saw a few at the--"
Clark puts his big hands on Lily's shoulders and gives her a gentle massage, "Oh, you know how I like my toast. Besides, it makes for a fun campfire story!"
Lily melts into his touch, "Yeah. You're right. Hmm. Yeah. Right there. Hmm. Oh, wow, y'know, for somebody who barely goes to a gym or works out at all, you've got the strongest, sexiest hands ever."
Clark snickers, "I sure do. Good genes, I guess. Let's hope that those snoring rascals upstairs got my half, eh? And...on that subject..." He looks at his wife, his eyebrows wiggling up and down.
Lily feebly sighs, "I'm ready whenever you are. I just wonder how--how Courtney and Claire are gonna react. I mean, we can't just tell them that the stork dropped us another baby - they're getting older. They're catching on."
"Hmm. But don't you think that it's still a bit too early for either of them to be given...the talk?"
"Kids are growing up a lot faster these days, honey. It wasn't like that when we were their age."
"It sure wasn't. You can manage with the kids?"
"Mm-hmm. Good luck today!"
Clark leans in and gives Lily another peck on the cheek. She lightly giggles and rubs his nose against his. He pulls away and heads for the door. Within seconds, he's peeling out in a Land Rover Range Rover (P38A).
As usual, he's heading to work. Lily will take their other car - the Honda Accord V6 sedan that's silver in color. Their garage is big enough to comfortably fit two vehicles, which is a real luxury that not many have.
(The two cars bit, that is).
Lily puts some stuff in the dishwasher and stares out the kitchen window. She places both her palms on the counter and ponders, "Too bad about what happened to our previous Toyota. But...what exactly happened? He--Clark said he got out just in time and I--I believe him, it's just that...why--how did it go off a cliff?"
She shrugs her shoulders, "Eh, that was years ago. I'm just glad that Courtney and Claire still have a father."
Lily shakes her head and turns her attention to the TV, where the early-morning news is still playing. She sighs softly and heads upstairs to rouse the kids from their slumber.
Clark has a stern and tight look on his face. His gray eyes are fixed on the road ahead, the Range Rover gliding smoothly and silently (for the most part) through the town's streets. He's travelled these roads numerous times over the years and he's memorized them.
The hours chug along as Clark gets into the rhythm of things. He's sitting at his desk, working away, typing away on a chunky white keyboard while squinting at a bulky CRT monitor.
His office is on the smaller and cramped side of things; the walls are painted in a sickly pale shade of beige. It goes up for about fifteen stories, with various other businesses occupying the building.
Amidst these well-dressed office types, one would think that Clark is just another ordinary mortal. But he is not. No, no, no. Oh, far from it.
A balding co-worker snaps his fingers and gets Clark's attention, "Hey. Got a minute?"
Clark doesn't bother looking at his co-worker. He dryly intones, "Gary. What's up? Make it quick."
"I uh...I got some more Pentex projects pending approval. Management said that you're our uh...Pentex guy, right? You know 'em? I--I never heard of 'em before today, but management says that you're the uh--the guy who's familiar with them."
Clark's gray eyes briefly flick up to Gary's face. Gary is well into his forties, thin, bespectacled, and wears a brownish suit that is at least one size too big for his frame.
Clark simply nods his head up and down, "Send everything that you have to me - and me alone. Nobody else is allowed to see this stuff. Don't let anybody touch this. Understand?" His tone has a sharp, intense edge.
Gary gulps audibly and nods his head, "O--OK. Sure thing! Hey, we're having trivia--"
"No."
Gary gets the message loud and clear. He bows out and leaves Clark alone.
Clark gets up from his creaky swiveling chair and heads to the bathroom. He locks the main door and blocks it off...just in case. He nervously gulps, lifts his chin, and stands in front of the semi-cracked mirror on the far end of the little boys' room.
The bathroom, for the most part, is unremarkable. There are a few urinals and stalls, with the latter being the most commonplace. Some grime can be seen here and there, though they are hardly visible.
Clark stares at his reflection in the mirror. His body wildly and erratically contorts at an alarmingly high speed. He grabs his head with his hands and violently twitches his torso as tendrils shoot out of his torso. The skin on his head vanishes to reveal a skull with glowing eyes.
His voice is now deep and guttural when he asks his reflection, "Was this from you? Again? They'll get suspicious! They're already starting to feel that something's off! This is not good, not good at all!"
The reflection of the foul (but deeply powerful) Bane Spirit that's inhabiting Clark claps back with fury, "Calm yourself! We will get through this! It will be dealt with - as it always has been. If worse comes to worst, we will kill them all. You are no stranger to this!"
"Those mutts had it coming. I suppose that could be a valid choice. Some are getting a little too inquisitive for my liking. They keep asking how I managed to survive that damned accident. It was fucking years ago, why won't they drop it?"
The Bane that has fused itself with Clark answers, "Because some humans just love sticking their noses where they don't belong. Now, what do you want? What was so urgent that you needed to have a face-to-face meeting?"
"Should I approve these recent batch of requests by the Pentex Group?"
"Of course you have to, you fool. Who do you think whispered those things to them in the first place??!"
Clark's eyes burn with fury, "Don't you fucking talk down to me like that again! We're in this together, you asshole!"
"Yes. No doubt about that. Now, away with you. Be gone. Do what you must, my faithful pawn--"
Clark snarls, "I am not your fucking pawn! I am so much more than that, you son of a bitch. Don't you dare forget that!"
The reflection silently fades away, and the bathroom is empty once again. Clark is staring at his regular face. He touches it a few times and lightly winces. He turns his back on the mirror and dries his sweating hands.
The Fomor takes a moment to straighten himself out. He adjusts his tie, pats his suit, and fluffs up his hair a bit.
Yep, he's a Fomor and has been one for years. The Fomori (plural of Fomor) are the sworn enemies of the Garou Nation. They're a group of monstrous beings who are deeply aligned with the Wyrm. They have been possessed by Bane Spirits. Fomori are irredeemably corrupted in mind, body, and spirit.
Clark unblocks the door and leaves the bathroom. His sturdy legs take him back to his workspace. He gets the required permits for the requests that the Pentex Group had made and signs them off.
Even as he works, the Bane Spirit whispers in his ears. He has essentially become one with the voice in his head. He accepts the creature's suggestions, which are not much different from his own thoughts - the host has been so immersed in this thing's influence that the two are fused and cannot be separated.
Clark's gray eyes flit over to a photo hanging on the wall. It reads: "Employee of the month - Gary"
Gary nervously smiles, showing his slightly crooked teeth. He is standing next to the regional manager.
The Bane suggests, "You should be running this place. Hm. Yes. I will speak to the relevant people. You are the superior specimen, after all. They only exist to serve...us...you...me. The distinctions ceased to matter long ago, didn't they?"
Clark nods and tells himself, "Yes. I--I need the money, don't I? With the prospect of a third kid on the horizon, I'm gonna have to pull my weight. I need the extra money, don't I?"
"You deserve so much more than that. Why limit yourself to only one child? Why not...two? I can make this happen, and it would require no additional effort from your end of things."
Clark puts down his stapler and looks around, "Y--you're sure about this?"
"Your offspring must, however, serve me...and me alone. They will be my children as much as they are yours. They will be my Seed...as much as they will be yours."
"How does Lily factor into all of this?"
The Bane Spirit answers, "Don't you think that it's time we got rid of her? She's getting...old, wrinkly, and saggy. Not to mention that she's no longer the lovely girl that you fell in love with all those years ago. Childhood sweethearts and all...brugh! There is a wide and vast pond awaiting you. Don't get stuck with an old, useless bitch."
Clark faintly echoes, "An old, useless bitch. That--that's what I've been thinking for a while, too. I've been thinking about getting a divorce--"
"Use her as a conduit. When you are done with her, dispose of her. You'll never have to see her ever again."
"Hmm. Yep. T--two kids, huh? Not just the one?"
Back in his workplace, Clark plainly nods at a few co-workers passing him by and informing him about the upcoming staff meeting. He forces a few tight smiles, waves politely, and then proceeds to get on with his work.
The Bane responds, "Why limit yourself? Why limit your potential like you ALWAYS have...before I came along? The world is ours for the taking, my friend. You've been wasting your talents...until I showed you the ways."
Clark's eyebrows shoot up and he sniffs, "Mm-hmm. Yep, I've certainly come a long way from the--from who I used to be. Heh."
Work is fairly unceremonious. Clark pulls open the car door and gets settled into the driver's seat. His cheeks puff as he blows a raspberry and turns on the ignition. The Range Rover rumbles, and Clark gets ready for the drive home.
The Bane reminds him, "We're running low on eggs again. And the bitch will nag and nag if she finds out about your...unique diet. Grab a carton on the way home, would you?"
Clark trills his lips and takes a sharp right turn. He rolls the windows down, his fingers tapping the steering wheel. His head bobs up and down as a rather catchy song plays on the radio. He stops by the convenience store. The moment the Fomor steps in, a deathly howling wind picks up.
In this entire town, he is the only Bane Spirit. The others were either subsumed, destroyed, or fled from the area. So, he has had a free rein in the town.
The store in question is brightly lit. The floors are pristine, shiny, and clean. The shelves are neatly organized. Employees in reddish uniforms stock shelves and keep the place clean.
Clark grabs the eggs, some extra loaves of bread, a few other snacks, and a bottle of maple syrup. Near the checkout counter, he scoops up a handful of candy bars, which are on sale.
"For Courtney and Claire."
Clark goes back to his house, greets his family with a massive hug (and even bigger smile), and sits at the table. The family has dinner, and the kids giggle and enjoy the stuff that their papa bought for them.
Lily puts her hand on top of her husband's and smiles, "That was so thoughtful of you..." The sincerity in her blue eyes is quite touching.
The kids have fun with their treats and thank their father for his kind and thoughtful gesture.
Clark smiles a bit, "Don't mention it. I'm just doing what I can, that's all."
He tucks his children into bed, kisses both of them on their foreheads, and turns off the lights. The Bane Spirit makes a few more suggestions to Clark, which he quickly agrees with.
The Fomor then heads downstairs. He and Lily share a brief kiss and then retire to their bedroom. The rest of the week goes by in a blur. Work, school, a PTA meeting wherein it was mentioned that Courtney got into an altercation with a classmate. For a seven-year-old to show such fury is not a good sign.
Courtney's teacher informs her parents, "It was nothing major, thankfully. But I'd strongly suggest that you - as her parents - should be keeping an eye on her, what she watches on TV, who she interacts with outside of school, and so on and so forth."
Clark nods and listens intently, his gray eyes focused on the teacher. She's nearly in her sixties and has been teaching for many years. She's an excellent teacher, with an incredible reputation.
Another week passes by with nothing much of significance occurring. Clark gets up, goes to work, comes home, takes care of the kids, helps them with their homework, plays with them for a few minutes, and gets some sleep. Rinse and repeat.
The howling winds and overall gloominess of the town don't show any signs of subsiding. Clark's wife has also noticed the sudden and strange changes in her husband's demeanor as of late.
At work, Clark's train of thought is interrupted by his regional manager. She's a tall and slender woman well into her thirties. She's professionally dressed and her long blonde hair is tied up in a neat bun. Her hazel eyes have a warm look to them.
Clark looks up at her and dryly greets, "Hey there, Linda."
Linda leans next to her subordinate's desk and informs him, "Cops were around. Again. Asking about those missing uh...hikers. You claimed to have seen them trespassing on private property, right?"
Clark rubs his face and removes his glasses. He lets out a long and drawn-out groan, "Ugh. Not this shit again. Linda, listen, I already told the cops everything I knew, alright? That was goddamn years ago. Why are they STILL SO CAUGHT UP ON IT!"
Linda's eyes widen and she almost stumbles over when the rage-fueled bellow is hurled at her. She quickly regains her composure and gulps, "Well, y'know how the--they don't like letting stuff go. Besides, this is a big deal for the town. We pride ourselves on--"
Clark lifts a finger and completes what she's about to say, "Being crimefree. I know. I grew up here. Now, if you don't mind, I've got a lotta paperwork to finish and it's already past my lunchtime, so unless there's an emergency, I'd like very much to get back to work."
Linda backs away, a faint look of fear forming on her features, "I...yeah, sure thing. Were--you saw my brother, too, didn't you? I warned him about running around with those--"
Clark rolls his eyes, "Linda, please. Not this again. I saw what I saw. I know what I saw. Now, PLEASE, let me get back to my work, would you?"
Linda lowers her head and walks away, her shoulders drooped down.
The Bane Spirit chimes in, "She's starting to suspect something, isn't she? Her brother had to...go. He was one of them! Besides, those mutts were no match for...me."
A proud smile makes its way onto Clark's lips, "Yeah. They sure weren't. And to think that they're Earth's mightiest warriors, its protectors and--and defenders...pathetic, isn't it?"
He puts his pen aside and reminisces, "That was the first time that I truly saw...what we--I'm capable of."
The Fomor singlehandedly wiped out an entire Sept of Garou, defiled their Caern, and even killed off a whole Pack of Gaian Garou sent to investigate the matter.
It was an easy, one-sided slaughter. Clark simply stood on top of the hill, shirtless. Flowing, writhing tendrils stuck outward from his head. These tendrils appeared to defy gravity. The top part of his body was accompanied by a foul black mist.
The Garou shifted into their Crinos (war) forms and relentlessly charged the dreadful Fomor. A big mistake that'd prove to be fatal.
Clark's head morphed into a grotesque, fleshy skull with multiple sets of glowing eyes. The tendrils extended outward from his head in an array of slimy colors. His hands then warped and elongated into sharp white claws.
The Bane Spirit charged him with a time distortion effect where its host's body appears to be in one place but is actually in another. This was primarily how Clark was able to overcome his enemies.
With effortless ease, the Fomor destroyed all those Garou, Linda's brother amongst them. They were not prepared for such a strong and vicious Bane Spirit. They were truly caught off-guard, and that was what gave Clark the edge that was needed.
After defiling their Caern, most of the resident Spirits of this town either fled or fell prey to the Bane Spirit that calls itself Inigo. Soon after the last of the Garou were finally dealt with, Clark returned home and made love with his wife. Nine months later, Claire was born.
Till this very date, Clark isn't suspected of any wrongdoing. A concerted effort was made to cover up the Fomor's actions. Pentex floods certain departments of this little town with large sums of money, thus buying off the local government.
Clark has had an easy ride thus far. A fuckin' joyride, more like.
The Fomor completes his work, doesn't bother with the saying of goodbyes to his co-workers, and leaves. He heads straight home. Lily left some food for him in the fridge, but he'll just drop it all in the bin and eat something else.
Inigo reminds its host, "We are indestructible, invincible, unstoppable! Don't you dare forget it, fool. The world is ours for the taking."
Clark weakly chuckles, "Let's just focus on the town first..."
Out of nowhere, Inigo informs him, "You will be getting a job offer from the Varara Foundation. Turn it down. You are needed here. There is no room for distractions. We can't let anything compromise our work."
Clark chuckles, "Shit. VF, huh? They actually responded, huh? Color me surprised."
Inigo tells him, "We have made the right friends over the years. The connections that we have fostered here - and will continue to build upon - will benefit us greatly in the coming days, months, and years."
"Block party's tomorrow. A lotta meat. Lots and lots of it."
"This is acceptable. Now, go. Your spawn need you."
Clark returns home, pays the nanny a few crispy bills, and shoos her off. He feeds his kids, joyfully plays with them, puts them to bed, and spends some time staring out the window.
Lily's running a bit late - she's been working overtime lately, which is why she hired a nanny. Clark isn't too thrilled about it, but he's trying to make the best of things, too.
By the time wifey dearest returns home, her Fomor husband is snoring away in the bedroom. The food that she put a lot of effort into preparing for him lies at the bottom of the trash can. He instead elected to help himself to expired maple syrup, raw eggs, and some cold chicken straight from the back of the fridge.
Nasty.
The sun peeks its rays through the curtains. A brand-new day is dawning, and a few birds are chirping. Lily takes off her sleeping mask, yawns loudly, stretches, and slowly gets out of bed.
She heads to the bathroom and stares at her reflection. She's lost a bit of weight around the midsection and hips.
The wrinkles on her forehead are starting to get more pronounced, too. Her cheeks also appear hollower than before.
She pats her cheeks, sighs, and heads to the kitchen to get everything ready for this evening's block party. If last year's block party was anything to go by, then this one is bound to be even more massive and memorable.
The block party in question is for the houses on this street ONLY. Yeah, typical American suburbs stuff. The house next door belongs to the Andersons, and they're the ones throwing the loud party. The kids don't have school today, so they're free to do whatever.
After taking out the trash, Lily takes a hot shower and dons a fresh change of clothes. Clark is still fast asleep, his snoring sounding disturbingly guttural and animalistic.
Claire and Courtney are both awake and having cereal. The little kids kick their legs, titter, make funny faces, goof around, and enjoy their breakfast.
Lily smiles at them, "Morning, princesses!"
Courtney is seven. Claire is four. They both look nearly identical despite being three years apart. Chin-length hair, round faces, big eyes, and rosy cheeks.
Claire speaks with a slight lisp when asking, "Where daddy?"
Lily pats her youngest daughter's head, "Oh, you know how he is, girls. Sleeping in. Don't worry about him. He'll wake up soon enough. Daddy and mommy have a special night tonight."
Courtney chews with her mouth open. She asks, "Can we--we come?"
Lily looks at her oldest child sympathetically, "Aww, this is only for adults, sweetie pie. There are going to be adult drinks, adult talks, and other grown-up stuff. It would be sooooo boring for you."
Courtney's shoulders droop and she sighs, "OK. What time will you come home?"
"When we come home. Don't worry, we won't stay late, OK?"
Courtney's face tics and she glowers at her mother in a rather peculiar fashion.
Lily ruffles the child's hair and queries, "Still getting into wrestling matches at school, huh? We talked about this, Courtney..."
The oldest child shrugs her shoulders and flatly responds, "They were the ones who started it by--by calling me all those names!"
Claire makes some funny noises with her mouth, causing the older sister to turn and balefully glare at her.
Lily snaps her fingers and demands, "Don't you give your little sister that kind of look, like--like you're about to hit her or something! Stop it! Stop that!"
Lily puts her fingers on Courtney's cheeks and turns her face towards her. The girl's lips are not quivering. Claire goes silent and lets out a small whimper.
Courtney still has that deeply intense and disturbing look in her eyes - the kind of expression that no ordinary child should be displaying.
Clark's plodding footsteps echo. He steps into the kitchen and tiredly greets everyone, "Ladies, ladies, ladies. Whoa...hey, Courtney, are you OK? Lily--?"
Courtney breaks into a broad grin, her mood doing a complete 180-degree turnaround. She jumps out of her chair, throws her arms around her father, and joyously giggles, "Daddy!"
Lily opts to say nothing. She simply wipes off some milk dribbling down her youngest child's chin.
Courtney clings to her father's leg and demands, "Pick me up! Do the rocket ship! Whoosh!"
Clark laughs out loud, hoists his oldest daughter in the air, spins her around a few times, and puts her back on the floor. Lily musters up a smile and makes her way out of the kitchen.
She puts on a sweater and some comfortable pants. She informs her husband, "I'm heading to the store - the big one out of town - for some last-minute shopping. The Andersons are expecting us - me, mainly - to put together some desserts, and I don't wanna show up empty-handed. I don't know how we'd live with ourselves if we messed things up, honestly."
Clark nods, kisses his wife on her cheek, and watches her leave the house. He carries Claire and rocks her up and down a few times, pointing to the car getting smaller and smaller as it rolls out of sight.
The girls are now left in the care of their father. Their Fomor father.
Inigo has no interest in either of them.
For now.
Clark dances around and sings some nursery rhyme to Claire, eliciting a few giggles from her. He's a changed man (in more ways than one). He's been given the opportunity to start fresh, to begin anew, and he's going to make the most of it.
He's already gotten the taste of dead werewolves. At the kitchen, he cracks a few eggs into a glass and chugs the contents. His nostrils flare and his eyes glow for a few seconds. Neither child notices the horrors taking place right before their very innocent eyes.
Courtney feels a shiver running up her spine and her blood suddenly runs cold. Claire, on the other hand, is blissfully ignorant.
Lily returns with a literal trunkful of foodstuffs. Her husband, the father of their children, took the kids for a short jaunt around the town.
Clark carries his youngest while the oldest child holds his strong hand and looks up at him with a broad smile. They walk the streets of the quaint little town that Clark was born in, raised in, and intends to raise his children in.
Lily uses her set of housekeys to let herself in. With a few groans and murmurs, she gets the groceries sorted out. She doesn't have much time left; this block party is in a few hours!
Clark points to a few storefronts, tells his daughters what each of them is, and gives them some little tidbits of information. Claire chews on her fingers, drooling and making babyish noises. Courtney is attentive, hanging onto every word that her father says.
She looks up to him (in many ways) with rapt attention and absorbs his every word.
"And over there is where I got my first job," Clark gently says while pointing to a music store.
Claire sheepishly inquires, "Then how come you're not a musician, dad?"
Clark shrugs and states, "Honestly? It was never really my thing. Truth is that I mainly got the job so I could meet girls, heh. Don't tell your mom I said that, OK?" He makes a shooshing gesture with his index finger and winks at the youngest child.
Courtney laughs and Claire giggles, too. They agree to keep their father's little secret. Much later, the trio return to find a very flustered Lily going back and forth, muttering memorized recipes and other notes.
Courtney rushes to her mother's side and asks, "Mommy, can I help you?"
Lily brushes the child off and takes a moment to catch her breath. The overwhelming feeling of exhaustion is already taking its toll on her.
Clark picks Courtney up and spins her around before sending her off with a light ruffling of her hair. Claire hobbles after her older sister and joins her on the living room sofa.
Clark regards his wife with an inscrutable expression and questions, "So...uh...what seems to be the problem?"
"I dunno how I'm gonna get all the desserts ready in time for--for the block party. I mean, I guess I can skip the fruit salad since nobody even touched it the last time around, and the cookies are pretty easy to make, but--"
Clark places his hands on her shoulders and stares into her eyes, "Calm down. Let's think this through, alright? You want me to call some help over? I think Mr. Combs--"
Lily shakes her head and reassures her husband, "N--no. No. I can handle it. The only extra pair of hands I'd need, however..." She bites her lower lip and casts a look at him that's all-too-obvious.
Clark lowers his voice, "The kids are too close. Listen, how about after the party, huh? Just you, me, and a bush."
"Closet."
Clark chuckles, "Hm. You have yourself a deal, woman."
He leans in and pecks his wife on her forehead. She giggles and gives his ass a good, tight squeeze.
A few hours later, the whole street is packed. In typical American suburbia fashion, it's a very exclusive (and exclusionary) block party. If you don't got the right ZIP code, your ass ain't gettin' in.
The Andersons have spared no expense, even going so far as to hiring out a whole freaking bouncy castle for the kids to jump around in.
There's a massive barbecue pit where the meat is grilled, and the smell is intoxicating. Clark is dressed in a fine waistcoat while Lily wears a shiny green dress with a slit down the side - she looks absolutely stunning.
The couple walk arm-in-arm while a bunch of sour-looking teenagers trail behind them, carrying the numerous desserts that the wife cooked up.
Courtney and Claire are playing inside the bouncy castle and screaming their heads off. The other kids also seem to have the time of their lives.
Lily and her husband mingle, smile, and politely chat up all their neighbors. Banal pleasantries are exchanged here and there, odd remarks about the weather are made to pass the time, and food is loaded up onto plates.
(Or shoved in pockets. Even if this is "refined" suburbia, food's gonna get nicked one way or another.)
There's an overall air of cheeriness, joviality, and merriment.
At least that's what it looks like on the surface.
Mr. Anderson takes Clark aside and asks, "Hey, buddy. How's it going? Enjoying the party so far?"
Mr. Anderson is a foppish gentleman with a receding hairline and a large beer gut. He's also an avid hunter, as evidenced by the mounted trophies in his home. He wears a sleeveless sweater with a pair of ironed khaki pants and leather sandals.
Clark holds up his plastic red cup filled with punch and smiles, "Sure am. You and the missus sure do outdo yourselves each passing year with these little shindigs, huh?"
Mr. Anderson speaks with a very refined accent, "It's a good little thing solely for the locals, my friend. I'd invite all the neighbors, but then...it'd go from block party...to ghetto party, if you catch my drift."
He makes a motion as if he were slashing his throat and rolling his eyes into the back of his head.
Clark chuckles, "Yep. Too many crazies out there. We gotta be careful about who we let in, you know? So, uh...um...what else is new with you? I see you've got the place painted. Again." He gestures to the interior of the Anderson house.
It's a grandiose space with an enormous foyer and a winding staircase.
Mr. Anderson sucks some air through his teeth and remarks, "Yeah, well, you know how it is. It was actually Mrs. Anderson's idea. And I, for my part, do like to keep things fresh and spiffy. Keeps the spark alive, you know? Between me and you, it feels like the life and--and color is slowly being leached outta this town."
The Fomor (who certainly bears his fair share of responsibility for that) quirks an eyebrow, "Oh?"
"For starters, it wasn't always this windy. And I've barely seen the sun when it wasn't cloaked behind a ton of clouds. You think there's something wrong with the weather, or is it just me?"
"Maybe it's just you. Mrs. Tarp is the weather lady, why don't you go and ask her. Anyway, how's everything else going?"
Mr. Anderson boasts, "Well, unlike you, I don't have to bother with toiling till my brow sweats. After selling my pharmaceutical company - and the numerous patents within - I now have the privilege of living off the payout, pursuing my interests, and enjoying my life to the fullest."
"You lucky son of a gun. Don't let anybody slow you down or hold you back."
"You're preaching to the man who wrote the gospel, Clark. How do you think I got this far? Huh? Do you think I became fantastically rich by letting everyone else have a piece of the pie, or did I do it by taking risks and doing things...a little unfairly? Hmm?"
Clark smirks in a knowing way, "You did it all by yourself, my good sir. You did it all by yourself. And maybe I'll join you one day. Soon enough."
Mr. Anderson pats the Fomor on his back and says, "Keep at it! You'll get there...or die trying."
Inigo opines, "He was actually someone whom I strongly considered compacting with. But you...were available, broken, desperate enough to take the offer. And the rest is history, as they say. But Mr. Anderson is useful in the furthering of our cause. A good ally."
Clark's smile doesn't falter, "Yeah. A great ally. Real swell guy, too."
The Bane promises, "Worry not. In time, you will own numerous mansions that shall make this one pale in comparison. Until then, however..."
Clark shuts his eyes and breathes in through his nostrils. He sees an image of himself, standing shirtless atop a pile of dead, mangled, and gored Garou. Entrails and blood are strewn about the open space, and his hands are drenched with the crimson fluid of Gaia's mightiest warriors.
He lets out a shaky breath and returns to reality.
Inigo notes, "We didn't need a single ounce of silver to kill those worthless mutts. We overpowered them through sheer force of will and beat them at their own game of savagery."
Clark takes a long sip from his red cup and nods in agreement.
Mrs. Goldberg accosts the dreadful Fomor as he disposes of the bones from his plate in the kitchen's trash can.
He turns to the middle-aged woman and offers a friendly wave.
Mrs. Goldberg is dressed in a full-length dress that sparkles and shimmers. Her auburn hair is up in a bun, and her makeup is heavy.
Clark smiles at her, "Looking nice tonight, Mrs. Goldberg."
"Is it true?"
"Hmm. Excuse me? Is what true?"
"Is the Varara Foundation sponsoring the town's local sports team this year?"
"Yeah. Why?"
"I was thinking of signing my daughter up. As it stands, her music and swimming classes aren't cutting it, and she needs to be more active, more social."
Clark tells her, "C'mon, Ruby's not even ten. Let the kid breathe a bit."
She tuts at him, "That may be easy for you to say, but us Goldbergs have a--a reputation to uphold. She has to learn how to fend for herself, and there's nothing quite like a healthy game of football to teach her those important lessons in life."
"I...guess so?"
Mrs. Goldberg clicks her tongue in mild annoyance, "I'm seeing a lot of this Varara Foundation around - it's like they have their fingers in every single pie of ours! And they're not the only ones, aren't they?"
Clark's guard goes up and he straightens his posture, "What are you getting at?"
"How much do you know - I mean, truly KNOW - about the Pentex Group?"
"I know that they put food on this town's tables. I know that they're the number one job-creators. I know that their factories and facilities are the cornerstones of this community's foundation. Their generosity alone took this town out of the red and into some semblance of green."
"And what is the price of such...alleged generosity, hmm? Have you ever stopped and wondered why such a massive behemoth of a global conglomerate would be so interested in some small, unassuming, insignificant little town like this?"
Clark shrugs, "I don't ask those types of questions because it's come to a point where my salary is highly dependent upon me NOT asking those types of dumb questions, OK? And if you wanna see Ruby grow up, you wouldn't go around sticking your nose into places it clearly doesn't belong."
A thinly veiled threat in all but name.
Mrs. Goldberg narrows an eye at him, "Are you insinuating something--"
Clark almost growls at her, "No. I am telling you to NOT go and bite the hand that fucking feeds you. Or your child. Or this whole town, for that matter. They're good to us and they'll keep being good to us ONLY IF we play nice with them."
Mrs. Goldberg sniffs in disdain and rolls her eyes, "Fine, fine. Uh...your wife is an excellent baker. She should really consider...err...going into this sort of thing on a fulltime basis. I know people - contacts - and can put her in touch with some of the best in the world."
Clark flatly says, "That's a pretty tempting offer. Speak to Lily about it. I'm still kinda hungry, so if you don't mind--"
"Actually, there was another thing..."
The Fomor stifles a groan and forces himself to smile, "Yes?"
Mrs. Goldberg leans in and lowers her voice, "I've heard - from a reliable and decent enough source - that you're the go-to guy for Pentex, is that correct?"
Clark sighs, "It's hardly a secret."
"Well, if that's the case, then...maybe you could give some thought to the next batch of requests that will soon be heading your way. Now, now, I know that it's quite untoward of me to be in possession of such knowledge, but I still have my ways."
"Uh-huh."
"I've seen a lot. I've personally - with my own two eyes - seen the many requests that make their way onto your desk for final approval and the like. You do realize how...wrong some of it is? The rezoning alone would cost taxpayers like us an untold amount of money, and for what?"
"For this town to continue to prosper so we can keep having these block parties. Look, I--I don't even wanna know how you managed to get your grubby little hands on such sensitive information that's been heavily restricted and is under wraps, but please...drop it."
Mrs. Goldberg clicks her tongue, "Tough luck. Pentex will strip our town down to the bone and run off with everything else. Do you want your children growing up--"
Clark retorts, "Don't you dare bring my kids into this." The malicious dread around him grows to such an extent that the light bulbs flicker and the ground seemingly quakes.
Mrs. Goldberg presses on, "All I'm asking is that you consider the consequences of the actions that you take, the choices that you make. You're a family man, after all. And I--I'm not here to tell you how to do your job or anything like that, I'm simply giving you the benefit of the doubt and some friendly advice. Some of the neighborly kindness that we always talk about."
"Hmm. I work in the interests of something far greater than you. And I will continue to do so. Now, I'm hungry and there's a few pieces of salami with MY name written somewhere on them, so if you don't mind..."
Mrs. Goldberg suddenly finds her tongue tied and her lips sealed. She wordlessly watches the Fomor march away from her so he can mingle with the other guests and enjoy the remainder of the block party. She calls it a night, drags Ruby away from a mini playdate, and returns home.
She's shaken, stirred, and quite...disturbed.
For all intents and purposes, Inigo the Bane Spirit is Clark and vice-versa; that's what makes a Fomor. The fusing of the two till they become totally of one mind, body, spirit, and essence. Inigo is not an alter ego or a differing personality. Inigo IS Clark, and Clark IS Inigo.
Mr. Anderson and his wife bid a few guests goodbye, but the party is from dwindling to an end. It goes on. Glasses are clinked, laughter and aromatic scents alike waft through the air, and a jovial (on the surface, at least) atmosphere still prevails.
Clark excuses himself from a large group of people and stands a bit far off from them, sipping his punch and looking very contemplative. He gulps down the rest of it and is about to head inside for a refill when a pudgy Asian American teenage boy accosts him.
Clark stares at him with an icy expression, "What's up, kid?"
"My--my name is Ned. Ned Chow. Do--do you remember me?"
Ned's face is round and sweaty. His hair is black and messy. His eyes are dark, and his demeanor is shy. He's dressed in a t-shirt that clings to his sweaty frame and a pair of shorts.
Clark shakes his head, "Can't say I do. This is an exclusive party, kid. So, unless you've got a pretty good reason to be here, I'm gonna have to ask you to leave. I don't like calling the cops on kids."
Ned looks around, wringing his hands and nervously licking his lips, "I--I saw you."
"Oh?"
Ned shakily nods, "That--that time when you were on that hill and all those big, huge, uh...uh...big, huge, furry monsters were chasing after you."
The cup slips out of Clark's loosening grip. Ned lightly steps aside and goes on, "It's all hazy and fuzzy. Still is. But I know--I know what I saw back then. It was years ago. And it's--it's slowly coming back to me now. The memories. You were the last person to be seen before--before those people turned into dog-looking things and came after you."
Clark's eyes narrow dangerously, "What the hell kinda drugs are you kids on these days? Weed? Smack? Molly?"
Ned insists, "No. I know what I saw. All the memories are--are--are coming back to me, but like, in broken fragments. And--and--and I saw you. I know you, dude."
"How old are you? Old enough to--"
"I just turned fifteen. It--it was some four years ago. All those hikers ran at you and--and you were yelling something. But then they--they became these..."
Even now, the Delirium still has a hold over young Ned, and he cannot quite articulate his thoughts.
(The Delirium is the overwhelming instinctive fear that affects human beings who see werewolves - and some other Fera - in their war forms.)
Clark looks around, puts his hand around Ned's arm, and threateningly whispers, "I'll call the cops on your ass if you don't fuck off, kid. Right now. Whatever you think you saw? You didn't. You hear me? You didn't. You've been warned. I came here to eat, enjoy myself, and have a good time. Don't ruin this for me. Don't!"
Ned only gets increasingly agitated. His breath hitches, his eyes bulge, and he begins to shiver, "Well, lucky you. Ever--ever since then, my life's been a nightmare. My dreams are haunted by these...these monsters. I can't even close my eyes at night without seeing their horrible faces, without seeing you all half-naked on that hill and--and--you're...you're some kind of..."
Clark grunts and pulls the child to someplace quieter and out-of-the-way, "You need help, kid. Serious fucking help. I'd recommend shock therapy."
Ned winces, "I know what I saw. I dunno everything, but I--I'm slowly starting to--to figure it out and, like, piece it together and stuff."
"And what is it that you think you saw?"
"You, those hiker dog-wolf-people, and...I--I--it's like my mind is preventing me from thinking too deeply about it, like a veil's been placed over it. Yeah, veil, I saw that word in a book and my mind went into this trance and it just clicked. I dunno."
Out of desperation, the Fomor asks, "You want money, don't you? How much. Would a few fucking Franklins suffice?"
"Whoa, that's a lotta money, dude."
Clark lets go of Ned and pulls out his wallet. He hastily fishes a couple of hundred-dollar bills and hands them over to the bewildered teenager.
The teenager looks at the cash with a slightly spaced-out look and then up at Clark, "This is...I mean, I could use the change, but I what I want are--are answers, man. Somebody played tricks with my memory and I don't appreciate that. It's like...there's this whole part of me missing, and I can't find it anywhere, like, at all."
"Take the fuckin' money, get outta my face, and pretend like none of this ever happened."
"No. I need answers!" Ned's raised voice almost incurs the attention of some curious onlookers, but they decide to leave him be.
Clark drags the kid farther away from the partying and towards a corner that's shrouded in shadows.
Ned gulps and wrestles free, "Whoa, hey! Easy, mister! I'm delicate! Sheesh!"
Clark sarcastically quips, "Yeah, your skin's like a baby's ass. So, you want answers about what you saw, huh? Well, lemme tell you: I don't know what the hell you thought you saw, but you saw NOTHING - and I mean NOTHING - important. Get it? Your mind's playing tricks on you."
Ned claps back, "That's impossible! I know what I saw. I don't know everything, but I'm slowly remembering more and more bits and pieces and, yeah, my mind doesn't want me to remember everything, but I'm getting there! S--slowly and steadily."
"Yeah. Slow and steady wins the race. Hmph. I'll give you a thousand bucks. I don't have that kinda cash on me, but I could swing by the ATM and--"
"I--I want answers. Also, uh...two grand."
Clark's face tics, "Jesus Christ. Two grand? I don't even spend that much on my own two kids! Now, listen: whatever it is that you thought you saw, it's all in your head, got it? You've got a wild imagination; hell, it's probably vast enough for you to tap into and write your own shitty comic books and make a name for yourself. I'll give you that."
Ned shakes his head, "I saw you. I remember you. I was a kid back then, so I--I hid behind something and--and saw...you. You didn't have your shirt on when all those...uh...huge people were running at you. You--you had this--this weird--"
Clark sighs heavily, "Three thousand dollars. I'm gonna have to go behind my wife's back on this, but that's it, kid. I'm not a bottomless pit of cash, y'know? I got two kids - with hopefully more on the way, heh - to think about, so...yeah. My final offer. Take it or get the fuck outta my sight."
Ned's resolve is quickly cracking, but he's determined, "I--I just wanna know what really happened. Three-five."
"Fuck you, you fat, greedy, chink."
Clark storms away from Ned.
The kid gives chase and shouts, "Hey, hey, wait! If you don't tell me what happened, I--I'll go to someone who'll at least listen!"
"Who? The police? The press?"
Ned catches up to the fuming Fomor and pants, "I...I saw the names of all the hikers. I know that...um...some chick named Linda had a brother--"
Clark is seething on the inside. If this kid goes to anyone else, then all will be lost.
Inigo simply compels him to do what he already knows has to be done, and he does so without a single shred of hesitation.
Clark puts his hands on the kid's shoulders and smiles at him, "OK. You want answers, right? You wanna know what really went down four years ago, right? Hmm?"
The eager and expectant look on the poor child's face is a clear enough response.
"Follow me, kid. I know a place where we can talk."
Ned shakes his head shyly, "No! I--I--why can't we talk here?"
Clark sighs, "Relax, I'm not gonna try anything funny with ya. I'm a family man, the proud father of two little girls. You can trust me. I have a type and you, oh shit, are far from it as can be. Point is: I'm happily married to a woman who still owes me a few babies. You get my drift, right, fatso?"
"Uh, OK?"
"C'mon, let's go somewhere a little more private, OK? There's a guest room up there. If there isn't anyone up there experimenting with sex and drugs, we'll sit down and take a nice trip down memory lane. We'll sort everything out."
On the way up to the guest room, Ned comments, "Y--you called me some really nasty stuff before."
"What are you gonna do about it, huh? Civil Rights my ass? Sue me because I called you something--"
"You need to apologize, dude."
"You want the memories or not?"
Ned lowers his head and is ushered into a dimly lit guest room. The wood paneling looks quite nice and expensive. There's a bed and a couple of nightstands. There's a TV, and the walls are decorated with paintings of scenic vistas.
The kid keeps his distance and cautiously observes the Fomor staring out the doorway to ensure that nobody saw them come up. Once he's satisfied, Clark shuts the door and turns to the nervous kid.
Ned gulps and trembles.
Clark rolls his eyes, "Oh, come on. Kid, I swear to God, if you pee yourself and leave a massive stain in here, then--then..."
Ned sits on the bed and pulls out an inhaler. He takes a few puffs, but he's still clearly anxious.
Clark remains standing. He leans against the wall and folds his arms across his chest, "If I tell you what happened, do I still have to pay you? I'm trying to save up for something nice this year. Y2K and all that shit."
"I--installments?"
"You son of a bitch. Hmph. Fair enough. But before we take that trip, allow me to give you a little live demonstration. Relax, this won't hurt a bit. I wanna introduce you to...me."
Clark's voice deepens to a monstrous degree. The time around him comes to a complete stop. Ned is frozen in a sitting position. A dark, swirling miasma is unleashed, and it consumes the entire room.
The Fomor's body wildly and erratically contorts at an alarmingly high speed. He grabs his head with his hands. The skin vanishes to reveal a fleshy, scary-looking skull. The eyes become nothing but empty sockets. Tendrils violently emerge from every pore of his skin, and they writhe and squirm about like snakes.
Seconds barely go by before Clark lets himself out of the room. He calmly adjusts his sleeves and walks back downstairs with a smile on his face.
He wraps his hand around his wife's waist and kisses her cheek. She looks up at him and notes, "Wow, that was quick. Everything OK? What happened? Where were you?"
The Fomor answers, "Everything is fine, my dearie. By the way, you did an excellent job on the brownies. The kids practically tore through them. Now, how 'bout we ditch the rest of this snoozefest and find ourselves a closet to...get busy, hmm?"
Lily bites her lower lip and blushes furiously. She sets her glass on the nearest table and nods, "Yeah, uh...just gimme a sec."
Clark smirks triumphantly and looks at his wife's ass as she saunters away to speak to the other guests. In time, they find themselves a nice, cozy spot in which to...engage in some marital fun.
She pulls his pants down with great force and wraps her fingers around his erect cock.
The Fomor grunts as his wife leans in for a sloppy kiss. Her tongue wrestles with his, and his fingers are entwined in her hair. Muffled moaning and groaning emanate from the closet.
Yeah.
Weeks later...
Clark finds himself standing in front of a large tree with wilting leaves. He stares at the rotting trunk, which is filled with a variety of carvings.
The Bane Spirit within him speaks up, "You were brought here...as a reminder."
Clark was driving in the Toyota which his father had given to him. Contrary to what he now says, he didn't jump out of the vehicle just in time. He swerved and drove off the cliff, smashing through the guardrail and plummeting to his certain demise.
It was a rainy night. He and Lily were having money troubles. She told him to swing by the pharmacy to pick up some meds that she had forgotten to grab during her last visit.
But Clark put it to the back of his mind and gave his work (he was still an HR manager back then) the majority of his focus. It had been a while since the two had done anything intimate; he was a busy man.
(Still is!)
He was pretty much tired and barely able to stand straight after a long day of hard work. He initially wanted to get back home and catch up with the game, but his wife needed those meds which'd help her with some or the other condition that she'd been experiencing.
And so, off he went to the pharmacy, despite the rain and the thunder and the lightning and the fact that the roads weren't being as maintained as well as they were supposed to.
On the way home, he swerved when his blurry vision caught sight of a bear walking along the side of the road.
By Gaia, he was dead on impact. His body was a severely mangled mess, as was his car. Bits and pieces of him were literally strewn all over the place.
But in that moment, Inigo came to him and offered him a way out, a way to undo this senseless tragedy. All he had to do was say yes, to accept. All he had to do was pledge himself to this fiendish Bane Spirit.
But why him in particular?
Prior to the accident, Clark had been feeling rather empty in his life. The whole humdrum of suburban existence, the dreariness and superficiality of it all, had slowly been catching up to him, and he had begun to wonder if there was even a point to any of this.
(He had even gone so far as to contemplate having an affair with an intern and ending his marriage. The pressures of life were many and they were simply overwhelming.)
Inigo was able to exploit all of this and, thus, was able to corrupt and warp him from the inside out. A gurgling and dying Clark spat out a ton of his blood and agreed to compact with the Bane Spirit.
The very next thing he knew, he was lying on the side of the road and feeling perfectly fine. The car, however, was a total wreck. The rain had stopped and someone who was passing by dropped him off back home.
His wife was beside herself for the past few hours in which he had gone missing, and she was absolutely shocked and relieved to see him walk in...unscathed, looking like a completely new man.
From then on, Clark's life changed forever. Even now, he still recalls fragments of being pulled away from that wrecked Toyota. Something pulled him away. But to where? Even he cannot answer that.
Ever since being turned into a Fomor, he's gotten a lot leaner and more muscular, and his face has also changed a fair bit.
Back in the here-and-now, Clark places his hand on the tree. It groans and begins to slowly die. The corruption of the Wyrm itself goes through the Fomor's palms and seeps through the bark.
He mutters, "I will not forget. I will never forget."
The soles of Clark's feet dig into the grass and soil. The vileness within him is boundless, and his connection with the Wyrm is strong and unshakable. The land around him slowly and gradually dies away. Rot and filth assert themselves where life and growth once prevailed.
The Fomor looks up into the gray, gloomy sky. His eyes are wide, his skin is pale, and his face is terror in and of itself. He looks back at the dead tree and, once again, runs his fingers along its rotten, gnarled bark.
He snarls and takes a piece to bite into it. The wood is soft and flimsy. He chews on it like a cow chewing cud, making all sorts of crunching and chomping sounds. He swallows a large chunk and doesn't even gag.
The Bane Spirit named Inigo compliments the Fomor, "Good. Good. You have done well. There is another task that needs to be undertaken."
Clark returns to normal and grimaces slightly. He lowers his head and takes a knee in front of the dead tree. He doesn't know what will come next, but he will accept whatever it is.
"What is it?"
"You are to herald the arrival of Wendigo."
Inigo's voice swooshes and echoes throughout this corrupted space that used to serve as the Caern for the Weeping Willows Sept, but no matter how many times Clark turns, he cannot locate its source - it is both within and around him.
He stands up, brushes his pants, and signals his compliance with a sharp nod of the head.
His cellular phone rings. He takes it out of his pant pocket, flicks it open with one hand, and brings it to his ear. It's Lily.
She sounds so elated when she speaks, "C--Clark? Honey? Is that you? Where are you? Are--are you sitting down? Because you're gonna want to--to be seated for this."
"I'm all ears, honey."
Lily squeals, "I'm pregnant! And you're not gonna believe it, but--but...it's not just one...it--it's not just one baby this time around...oh, no, siree!"
S6: