Title: Vampire: The Masquerade- The Golden Goose
By: Paddy
Writing Start Date: May 27th, 2025
Writing End Date: in progress
Fandoms: World Of Darkness (WOD), Vampire: The Masquerade (VTM)
Genre(s): Horror, Urban Fantasy, Drama, Thriller, Intrigue, Action-Adventure, Gothic Punk, Gothic Horror, Supernatural, Tragedy, Magical Realism, Modern Gothic, Economic Horror, Social Horror
Summary: In a city governed by greed and avarice, a cold and withdrawn SEC Enforcement Investigator by the name of Markham finds himself in a lot more than he had initially bargained for. What lies at the end of this dark and foreboding tunnel? And will Markham manage to hold on to his ideals by the time all is said and done?
Content/Trigger Warnings: Intense Violence, Blood & Gore, Torture, Strong Language, Slurs, Bigotry/Hate, Racism, Queerphobia, Ableism, Sexual Content/Scenes, Full & Partial Nudity, Alcohol/Substance Consumption, Smoking, Heavy Drug Usage, Human & Animal Death, and so on.
Mirrors/Alternative Places To Read:
https://archiveofourown.org/works/75748956
https://www.quotev.com/story/17254309/Vampire-The-Masquerade-The-Golden-Goose
Additional Notes:
Inspirations (Not ALL of them, just the main ones):
VTM: Night Road | Out For Blood | Parliament Of Knives | Sins Of The Sires | Coteries Of New York | Shadows Of New York | We Eat Blood And All Our Friends Are Dead | Reckoning Of New York
...And many more.
Chapter 1: The Securities and Exchange Commission
The following events transpire over the course of a few weeks in the year 200X.
The SEC regional office is in a large skyscraper in the middle of downtown, which was once home to a bank (of all places).
It's late in the evening. The stars shine bright above, and the city lights glow in the night. The office is mostly empty, except for the SEC employees and a few interns hard at work, burning the midnight oil and all that stuff.
A 43-year-old man with chin-length black hair and a clean-shaven face, wearing a simple suit and a gray shirt, is standing at the desk of an employee in the building, a woman in her mid-20s wearing a dark pantsuit.
"So, Markham. What's up? Keeping yourself busy. It's uh...it's pretty cold outside, huh?"
Markham dryly nods, "Jamie. What did you do to make them put you on graveyard duty, huh?"
She leans back in her creaky office chair and spins around, seemingly bored with it all, "Eh, what can I say? I spoke my mind and made my opinions on certain matters clear, and well, y'know."
Markham folds his hands and softly grunts, "Hmm."
Jamie shrugs, "Listen, Markham. I owe you one for speaking up for me last month. T--Thanks for that, I mean it." She turns her head up to look at him.
He's somewhat tall and his gaze is rather unreadable, his face a cold and almost withdrawn mask.
He looks her over for a few moments before his mouth moves to form a subtle smile, "Jamie, it's alright. You were just exercising your right to free speech and giving your honest opinion. It was nothing at all."
She stares back at him with an even, dead-eyed gaze, but there's a certain gratitude in those hazel eyes of hers.
Jamie tussles her front bangs for a moment and then sighs, "Well, uh, what did you need to speak with me about? You came here to talk, I mean. Obviously."
Markham nods, "I just wanted to talk."
Jamie snickers, "Hey, sure, I'm always down for a little chit-chat."
As Markham is about to open his mouth, a loud voice calls him, "Markham! My office! Now!" It's the voice of a man.
He turns his head to the side and furrows his brows, "What?"
A dark-skinned man in a high-top fade and a gray suit beckons for Markham to enter his office. Jamie leans over and peers around her bulky computer screen.
Markham looks at the man's office for a moment or 2 before he slowly walks in and then closes the door. He's seated in a leather armchair across from the other man, who looks to be in his late-40s.
That would be none other than Markham's boss- Clifford.
He has a picture of his wife and adult son on his large chestnut desk and an office chair with wheels. He's currently looking over some paperwork.
Clifford begins, "Ah, Markham. Just the man I wanted to see."
Markham folds 1 leg over the other and remains still in his seat, "Yes, sir?"
The boss smiles, "Just the attitude I like. Listen, take a look at this. Here." He hands Markham a piece of paper. It's a letter of some kind.
"Ah, sure," Markham takes a moment to flip through it, "OK...interesting."
Clifford leans back in his seat and gives Markham an appraising look, "Indeed. Thoughts?"
Markham spends a few more moments silently going through the letter. It alleges that 2 guys in Flimont City are engaged in rather suspicious and shady activity.
Everything from market manipulation to insider trading to tax evasion is apparently going on there, and all of it seemingly ties back to 2 individuals- Luciano Donovan Jr. and his close friend since childhood, Paul Cho.
The anonymous letter is very vague on the details, but it also makes several specific points that can be checked for fact.
Clifford leans forward and places his chin on his hand, "What do you think of this, Markham?"
Markham replies, "I'm familiar with most of it. Luciano Jr. and his family have been active in the investment scene for decades."
Clifford chuckles, "Heh, yeah. His dad, Luciano Donovan Sr., used to sit on the advisory board for the SEC. Crazy, huh?"
"Isn't that a clear conflict of interest? From what I can recall from the top of my head, the senior Luciano was involved in some pretty shady things back in his heyday--"
Clifford raises a finger, "All speculation, Markham. No one was able to prove anything."
Markham goes over the letter 1 more time before handing it back, "It doesn't really say anything new in here. There are already a lot of allegations that go against these guys, but nothing has stuck so far. Why now?"
Clifford says, "Because, we're finally gearing up to make a move against Flimont City, but we need solid evidence of wrongdoing. And that's where you come in, Markham."
"Oh. You...want me to go and investigate?"
"Mm-hmm. You have the perfect pedigree and the skills required for an Enforcement Investigator. We need someone in there, right in the thick of it all."
Markham mulls it over for a moment. He then says, "That's an idea. If that's the case, I need more to go on than just an accusatory letter with vague references. That's not good enough."
Clifford cracks a knowing smile, "Always the straight-shooting boy scout, huh, Markham?"
Markham simply says, "I just want everybody to play fair and by the same rules, sir."
"I know, Markham. I know. So, you better pack your bags, hmm? Pack some extra sunscreen, too. I hear Flimont City's pretty hot this time of year, haha!"
"Hmm."
Clifford narrows an eye and stares at his employee, "Seriously, the sun could do you some good. You look kinda...pale."
Markham forces a smile, "I'll be sure to keep that in mind, sir." He rubs his hands together in a smooth motion before rising from his chair, "If that's all, then I need to make some calls and then prepare for my trip."
Clifford tells Markham, "Also, check your emails. We've sent everything that we have on LDJ and Paul Cho. Be sure to familiarize yourself with their activity and backgrounds before you arrive there, yeah?"
Markham looks confused, "LDJ?"
Clifford chuckles, "Luciano Donovan Jr. From what I understand, he likes calling himself LDJ, heh. Don't ask me why, hmph."
Markham indifferently shrugs, "OK, sir. Right away. You have my word that I will be on top of this matter."
"Ah, 1 last thing. Have fun out there in sunny Flimont and be sure to keep me posted on anything that goes on in there. If there IS something shady, we wanna take it down by the books, OK?"
Markham respectfully nods, "Yes, sir. I'll see you soon, Clifford."
Clifford responds, "Hey, it ain't gonna be that soon. Couple of weeks, at best. I hope to see you back here with a nice tan, hahahaa!"
Markham cracks a small smirk and nods once more, "Hmm." He walks out and goes back to Jamie. She's been listening the whole time from behind the cover of her computer screen.
Clifford hollers from inside his office, "Oh, Markham!"
Markham looks over his shoulder, "Sir?"
"Don't ruffle too many feathers or rock the boat too much. Flimont City's like a mini Wall Street and the last thing the SEC needs is an embarrassing fiasco."
"Don't worry, sir. I'll keep it discreet, you have my word."
"I'll hold you to that, Markham. I'll hold you to that."
Jamie playfully bites her lip, "F-City, huh? Lucky guy!"
"Hmm."
Jamie moues, "What? You don't look too excited about it..." She lets that remark hang in the air.
"I'm fine, Jamie," Markham lowers his tone, "It's just that...I haven't been out in a while."
Jamie lazily waves her hand in an almost dismissive manner, "Aww, c'mon. It'll be like a lil vacay for you, y'know."
Markham dryly asks, "Is a place like Flimont City REALLY a vacation spot? From what I know of that place, it's full of obnoxious, money hungry, low IQ, coke sniffing, jack rabbit, shit talking, bothersome, irritating motherfuckers that I probably won't be able to stand for 5 seconds."
Jamie bursts out into a fit of giggles, eliciting weird looks from other employees nearby.
She eventually takes a quick breath, "Hahahahahaha, oh shit! Pffttthhh..."
"I know that type all too well, and I don't want anything to do with them," Markham dryly says.
Jamie pointedly tells her co-worker, "Well, you work for the SEC, buddy. Dealing with fucking wannabe, big time, small time, coke-addled day traders is a part of the job. Uh...workplace hazard, heh."
Markham concedes with a simple nod of the head. She's right.
Jamie lets out another giggle and says, "I can't believe you quoted Robert Downey Jr.! Hahahah! I told you 'The Last Party' would be a fun watch."
"Hmm. I'll admit, he's right about the finance industry. It's insufferable," Markham bitterly adds.
She just chuckles again, "Hehehee...pfffhh, OK, OK! So, when you leaving, huh?"
"As soon as possible. Anything I should know about Flimont City?"
Jamie tells him, "Besides the fact that it's a daycare for day traders? Naaah. It's pretty sunny and boy, oh boy, could a pale ghost like YOU use the sun, haha!"
Markham looks a bit embarrassed and mildly flustered, "That's...not my goal, Jamie."
Jamie clicks her tongue, "Ah, c'mon. Chicks dig a little tan. Your hair's all great, but y'know...your skin is as white as paper. Hahahaa..."
Markham slowly shakes his head and folds his arms, "I...OK. Never mind."
"Ah, you'll do great out there, Markham. It's about time somebody held those rich scumbags to account, y'know."
Markham folds his arms, "I just want everybody to play fair and by the same rules, Jamie. I'm not going there to cause a ruckus. I'm there to gather evidence, and that's it."
"Right, right, sure thing. Anyways, when EXACTLY are you leaving, huh? You should like, pack some shit NOW. Hey, maybe take that aloha shirt I got you last Christmas."
Markham scratches the back of his head, "Sure. I'll pack that in."
Jamie asks, "You need any help packing?"
"I think I can manage. You uh...take care now. Stay out of trouble, at least until I get back." There is genuine care and concern in his tone of voice.
Jamie picks up on this and teasingly pouts her lips, "Awww, someone's gonna miss me? How cute! Haha...don't worry about me. You go out there, catch those big fish, and when you come back, you can tell me ALL about it, how about that? Hmm?"
Markham extends his cold hand, "Sounds like a deal, Jamie."
Jamie winces a bit when she shakes his cold and clammy hand.
Markham immediately lets go, "Uh...yeah. I better get going."
Jamie shrugs it off, "Hey, it's cold in here. Oh, and be careful, Markham. I'd really hate if something bad happened to you out there. Rich scumbags aren't known for playing by any sets of rules apart from their own. Y'know?"
Markham gives her a respectful nod, "I'll be careful. Goodbye for now, Jamie."
She smiles, "See ya, Markham!"
Before he turns around to leave, Jamie throws herself into her co-worker's arms and gives him a tight hug. She pulls away just as fast and then playfully ruffles his hair.
"Byeeeee! And hey, be sure to email me, OK? Also, call me. Anytime, alright?" Jamie gives a toothy grin and waves goodbye.
Markham regains his composure from that surprise hug and forces another smile, "I...uh, yeah. Goodbye for now, Jamie." He walks away to get his things and then leaves to prepare for his trip to Flimont City.
Jamie sits in her chair, and spins around a couple of times while giggling, "Yup. He's...an interesting guy."
She chuckles once more and spins her chair around to look out the window, "I wonder what his whole deal is, though...like why didn't he join us for early-morning drinks last year?"
Jamie turns away from the window and returns to her desk to continue with her work. She goes back into it with a heavy sigh and then gets to typing away on her bulky computer.
She glances at the picture of her and Markham on her desk and snickers to herself, "Heeheehee, y'know, why haven't I ever seen him out during the day? Hmmm--"
She dismisses these nagging thoughts from her mind and proceeds to focus on the matter at hand.
Markham takes the elevator down to the basement parking lot. It's him by himself inside this steel box that dings each time he reaches a new floor.
He's silent and unreadable the entire ride down. Eventually, he gets out of the elevator and makes a beeline towards his vehicle.
As he's walking towards his black sedan, an unusual pang of hunger hits him out of the blue.
It's an extremely intense pain in his chest, as well as the sudden emergence of a piercing migraine that almost brings him to his knees.
Markham is no ordinary mortal working for the SEC's Enforcement Division.
Oh, no. He is a vampire, or more accurately, a Kindred belonging to a powerful and feared Bloodline of alleged devil worshippers known as the Baali.
His ceaseless Hunger rouses within him. He licks his lips at the thought of a warm meal and considers feeding upon a man in a suit preparing to get into his vehicle.
The parking lot is quite well-lit and Markham would be spotted even before he has a chance to sink his sharp and pointy fangs into that man's neck.
But, the Beast inside of him demands satiation and it simply doesn't comprehend the concept of "NO" or "NOT NOW."
So, the Baali decides to activate his Obfuscate Discipline. He begins to slowly fade away into the background, essentially wiping himself from the minds and eyes of those around him.
As his Hunger rouses within him and threatens to drive him mad with bloodlust, he puts the Hunger away by force. It's like a primal force within him trying to assert dominance over his body, but he manages to rein it back.
For now.
If he delays for too long, he might go into a Frenzy and that is not something that anyone in this building should ever be subjected to.
Completely invisible, Markham closes the distance between himself and his intended target. Once within range, the Beast's primal instincts take over as Markham suddenly grabs the man and yanks him into a darker and secluded part of the parking garage.
The man cries out, but it's a bit late now. Markham is already in control and he is about to feast upon his warm and tasty blood.
Markham hisses as he leans over the man. The latter is too petrified to even make a single move.
The Baali sinks his fangs into the man's neck and starts sucking on his blood like some sort of a feral animal.
It's...quite delicious. His mouth is filled with the metallic tang of hot blood and it takes everything within him not to completely drain the poor man.
Markham pulls away and begins to lick the fang-induced puncture wounds on the man's neck shut. His tongue sorta helps to cover any evidence up.
He then proceeds to wipe his mouth and clean it of any blood, leaving no evidence behind.
Markham composes himself and lets the man's still breathing body fall to the ground. He looks like a broken puppet, but he'll live.
Markham unlocks his car's door, starts it up, and peels out of the parking garage and into the dark and cold night. He will be back here in due time, but first he needs to prepare for his trip.
It won't be long before he is compelled to feed once more. The Beast inside of him demands it, and it is a force that cannot be denied for too long.
Markham has very...intimate knowledge of Frenzying and it's not something he wishes to experience.
Ever again.
Markham's Haven is a modest house in the suburbs. It's just another house in a sea of similar-looking houses, but it's his Haven. A place for him to rest himself during the day.
He's inside his bedroom, looking through some suitcases and neatly arranging them on the bed.
He opens his closet and picks out a few shirts- all formal, stiff collars, plain colored, boring. All business. It's who he is.
His flip phone suddenly rings and he answers, "Yes?"
A woman's voice is on the other end, "Hey, Markham."
It's Jamie.
"Jamie. What's up?"
Jamie's voice comes in a bit muffled, "Eh, nothing. Just wanted to talk. I'm already feeling bored without you around, haha."
"Hmm. Um...me too."
"Yeah, listen, I'm gonna miss our banter at work, haha! Seriously, though, don't die over there, OK? Be careful, Markham. I've been reading some news articles about Flimont City and it kinda scares me."
Markham replies, "I'll be fine, Jamie. I'm more than capable of anything that comes my way, don't you worry."
Jamie sighs, "Good. Also, are you all packed and ready to go?"
"I was just doing that when a certain somebody decided to alleviate her boredom."
Jamie chuckles, "Oh, haha. Yeah, I'll let ya get back to it. And PLEASE, pack that aloha shirt. I want 1 GOOD PICTURE of you in it, preferably with a hot chick around your arm, yeah?"
"I don't know if I can deliver on that one."
She sighs, "Ah, you're too much of a hardass. You need to loosen up and have some fun, y'know!"
"I'm going there for work, Jamie."
"Bah! All work and no play makes Markham a dull boy."
Markham claps back, "And all play and no work makes Jamie an unemployed girl."
Jamie snickers at her friend's remark, "Heeheeheehee, wow! Ouch, Markham! But, seriously, don't work too hard, alright? And be sure to get that tan. You look like the kinda guy that should be in some kind of a Victorian horror story, haha."
"Hmm. Goodnight, Jamie."
"Nighty night! And uh...we can, like uh...talk every now and then, right? It's just that, you're the only guy who stood up for me when they tried to fire me for speaking my mind and saying what I thought was wrong, y'know?"
"I'll try, Jamie."
"You're a really good guy, Markham. I wanna make it clear that I appreciate all of that stuff you did for me, y'know? Y--You probably jeopardized your own career to save my neck, and I'll forever be grateful for that."
"It's nothing. Really."
There's a brief pause before Jamie speaks, "OK. Well, I won't keep ya any longer. You're probably busy with packing. Fold your clothes, OK? Don't shove 'em in like a caveman, haha!"
"Haha. Sure. I'll talk to you soon, alright?"
"Mm-hmm. Stay--stay safe out there. Flimont City...it's a cruel place, Markham."
"I know, Jamie. Don't worry, though. I can handle myself. You take care of yourself, alright? And don't do anything that'll get you fired, at least until I come back."
"Haha, yeah, OK, Markham. Byeeee!"
"Hmm. Bye."
He ends the call by pressing the red button on his Motorola flip phone. He sighs and shakes his head. It's going to be difficult for him to adapt to Flimont City and the people there.
It's not an environment he is used to dealing with, but it's a part of his job.
It's what keeps the bills paid and he's quite good at it. As far as his co-workers (Jamie included) are concerned, he's just a somewhat cold and withdrawn 40-something guy working for the SEC.
Nothing more, nothing less.
As a vampire, he's obligated to uphold the Masquerade. He is a predator hiding in plain sight among sheep, and he must always remember this uncomfortable fact.
A single false move could potentially reveal his secret and cause the local Kindred authority to turn on him. And that is something he'd rather avoid.
Worse, it could alert the forces of the Second Inquisition to his whereabouts and reveal certain discrepancies in his official documentation and paperwork.
He was Embraced in the 1970s by a man known as Burt, a Baali rock star. It's a lot more messy than that, but Markham doesn't like to spend too much time dwelling on all of the horrors that preceded his Embrace.
Burt, the Baali, had taken Markham under his wing and showed him the ways of the Bloodline and taught him everything he needed to survive on perilous and uncertain nights such as these.
The turn of the century brings with it a wave of change. For the Kindred, some of this is good and shows potential.
The whole World Wide Web and Internet thing is something the Kindred are excited about exploring and using for their own ends. For Markham, he's still not so sure.
However, a lot of bad has also followed the undead as a new century dawns.
The Camarilla has fractured, the Second Anarch Revolt has failed, and the Sabbat are making major moves against many Domains once thought to have been under the complete control of the Ivory Tower.
It is the best of times, yet it is also the worst of times. However, Y2K was far from over. It had only begun and the world would soon be plunged into an inky black darkness unlike anything it has ever experienced before.
Markham finally finishes packing all that he needs for his trip to Flimont City. He checks his emails and notices a few from Clifford.
It's everything that the SEC has on Luciano Donovan (both Senior and Junior) and Paul Cho and any other major players in Flimont City's financial industry.
Markham peruses this information for a little while and makes some notes. It's enough to get him started, but he needs to learn more about this pair.
They are his targets. The reason why he is going there.
He picks up his car keys and goes to pay a visit to an acquaintance of his. He drives along the mostly-empty and quiet streets of the city he's called home for the past few years to a very seedy and dark building that looks like it has been abandoned for years.
It's located in a rundown area of the city and graffiti covers all of the nearby walls. A decaying sign above the building reads: "KEEP OUT!" The letters are in a bold and obnoxious yellow styling.
There is a large crack in the front window, too. And the front door looks like it's about to fall off its hinges.
Markham knocks 3 times on the front door. A buzzer sound comes from the inside, followed by the unlocking of the door. He enters this building, which is much bigger on the inside than it appears on the outside.
Markham takes the ancient-looking elevator down into the basement, where the real structure lies.
There's a pair of double doors with no handles. They automatically slide open when he approaches them. He is greeted by the sight of many computer screens, pristine tiled flooring, and a well-lit room.
This is where the magic happens.
A figure peeks out from behind a stack of computer servers, "Oh, h--hey! Markham! You're here!"
She looks...unusual. Her skin is pale and blue. She has a bald head and pointy ears. She's wearing a pencil skirt and a flower-pattern blouse with the top few buttons undone. Her nails are long and sharp.
She has an almost ethereal, otherworldly beauty that belies her true nature. She is a vampire, too, but not just any vampire.
Darla is of Clan Nosferatu, a Clan infamous for their hideous visages, yet this one seems to be quite attractive and somewhat appealing in her own way.
She almost resembles someone cosplaying an elf at a sweaty nerd con or some sort of fantasy convention.
Perhaps she could pass for an elf at a Ren faire in the night.
Darla, the Nosferatu, greets Markham with a toothy smile, revealing her pointed but horribly yellow and slightly crooked teeth, "It's been a while, huh? How've you been, old friend?"
Markham nods and folds his arms, "Hey, Darla. I'm good. Thanks for asking."
She waves her slender hand in a dismissive manner, "Ah, it's nothing. Hey, since you're here, help me out, would ya? See that screwdriver over there? Yeah, help tighten those screws for me? Please?"
Markham says, "Sure. But, I need something from you."
Darla wipes her clammy hands with a nearby cloth and rolls her shoulder, "Sure. Help me and I help ya. That's how I operate, Markham."
Markham gets to work on doing what this slender Nossie asks of him; he uses the screwdriver to tighten all of the screws she points out for him and even manages to repair some things that she's been having trouble with.
"Fucking servers are overheating constantly," she tells him, a trace of spite and resentment in her voice.
"Why don't you uh...upgrade or whatever you call it?" Markham asks.
Darla gestures a random server rack, "THIS IS the latest shit I can get my hands on without raising any red flags, y'know!"
"Uh...right."
Markham fixes up the servers and also gives Darla a hand in cleaning up her place. She is a bit of a messy person.
Darla sits back in her classy office chair and rotates it around, "Heh, thanks. I appreciate the help."
Markham shrugs, "It's nothing."
Darla cracks a smile, "I owe ya one, Markham. And I ALWAYS repay my favors."
Markham shifts in his uncomfortable seat, "Yeah. Anyways, I need your help."
Darla leans forward and places her chin on her hand, "Ooh, do tell..."
He clears his throat and begins, "I'm going to Flimont City, and I need papers. More importantly, I need a proper place to sleep in during the day. And I need to know what the Kindred scene is like down there."
Darla cracks a broad grin, "Flimont City, huh? Wow. That place...jeez. So, is it business or pleasure?"
"Business."
Darla shakes her head, "Ah, Markham. Always business, huh? Yeah, I know about F-City. It's a hardcore Camarilla Domain under the control of Prince Antonio, a Ventrue."
"Go on."
Darla gladly does so, "He's got the whole setup- a Primogen Council and a Sheriff. He's been running it for a 100 years now. A real stickler for the rules. Kind of reminds me of a certain someone in this room right now, haha!"
"Hmm. And the Camarilla are doing OK down there?"
She shrugs, "Yeah, I mean, I guess?"
Markham's lips quiver, "What about the Sabbat? Any of them around there?"
Darla shakes her head, "Nope. It's Camarilla through and through."
"Hmm. Good. I can deal with that. What Clans are should I expect to run into?"
Darla spins around her chair and does some counting with her fingers, "Lemme see...uh, the main ones are Ventrue, Gangrel, Tzimisce, and Malkavian."
She adds, "Word on the street is there's a few Brujah- former Anarchs or something- looking to make peace and enter the Prince's Court. The Gangrel are supposed to be brokering some kinda deal on their behalf."
Markham rubs his chin, "Interesting. Any...Lasombra?" There's an unmistakable fear in his voice when uttering this particular Clan's name.
"No. No Lasombra. That's a good thing, right?" Darla asks, a look of concern forming on her blue face.
Markham slowly nods, "Yeah. Definitely. I'd rather not deal with any of them. Uh...bad...m--memories."
Darla leans forward and pats his shoulder, "Hey, hey, it's alright. I'm here if you need someone to talk to, alright? But, back on topic...don't worry, there's no Lasombra down there, heh."
Markham folds his arms, "OK. What about the Sheriff?"
"A Ventrue named Velma. She's been with the Prince for a few decades, if memory serves. You won't be able to get anywhere near the Prince unless she okays it first."
"Any weaknesses? Flaws?"
Darla sighs, "Weaknesses? Flaws? With who, the Sheriff? Well, from what I've heard, she's no pushover and she'll gladly cut your head off if you break even a single Camarilla Tradition."
Markham nods, "OK, that's fine. What's the Domain like?"
Darla says, "Flimont City, right? Well, it's no major powder keg and the Ivory Tower lets Prince Antonio run it like he sees fit. Well, in all fairness, he's been doing it for a century, haha!"
Markham inquires, "What's the Prince like?"
She replies, "Ah, Prince Antonio? He's a Ventrue, so, he's kind of a stiff, y'know. From what I've learned, the Ventrue in that city operate a lot like a mafia. Extortion, threats, ya name it, they've probably done it."
"Hmm. I see. Anything else I should be made aware of?"
Darla chuckles, "Yeah, the Tzimisce Primogen went missing a week ago. No one's been able to locate him."
Markham dryly says, "Not exactly something I'm too concerned with, and I'm NOT looking to get involved in all of it, either. I'm going there for work, as in my actual job."
"Hehehehee...yeah, well, just thought I'd give you a heads up. These things...they have a way of roping ya in and dragging you down if you're not careful, Markham."
Markham plainly nods, "I understand that, Darla. So, about those papers..."
Darla shuffles some things on her messy desk, "Yeah, yeah. Gimme a few hours to cook everything up for ya."
Markham raises his eyebrows, "That fast?"
Darla coyly smiles, "Do you know who you're talking to? I do this...THIS for an Unliving. You're not the only bloodsucker I've had to forge papers for, y'know."
Markham says, "I...sure. OK. Thank you. How much will it be?"
Darla shrugs, "Ah, don't worry about it. This one's...on the house. But--"
She walks over to him and bends down to whisper into his ear, "--I might expect you to do a few favors for me. Hmm, let's see...in the near future, maybe?"
Markham nods, "Uh...yeah. Sure, Darla. As long as it isn't illegal. Or...something that'll get me fired."
The Nossie chuckles and playfully shoves the Baali, "What do you take me for, Markham? Of course, it's all gonna be legal. And also, it won't get ya fired, haha!"
She pointedly tells him, "But seriously, you gotta think about what you're gonna do in the future, y'know. People are gonna get suspicious when they grow all old and crusty while you remain all handsome and fresh, hehehe..."
Markham sighs, "I know. I've thought about it, too."
Darla looks like she is about to say something else, but she just turns around and says, "Yeah, well, anyways...I'll get to work on those papers of yours. What about accommodations? Any fancy requests?"
Markham replies, "Anything that keeps the sun out, Darla. We can't be too picky."
Darla clicks her tongue, "Fine, I'll put you in the cheapest and crappiest motel I can find."
Markham sighs, "Hmm. Anything a bit...better than that?"
Darla grins, "Ah, now we're talkin'! I'll see what I can find for you. You can stay and chat or do you got places to be tonight?"
As much as she doesn't wanna admit it, she's eager to talk to someone. Being a Sewer Rat can be pretty lonely at times.
Markham equably replies, "Um...sure. I just need to make a quick phone call to my boss, then we can talk."
Darla warmly smiles, "Sounds good."
The Baali stands up from the office chair and heads for the door, "Thanks again, Darla. I'll be right back."
Darla waves him off, "Take your time, doll. Take. Your. Time."
Markham dials Clifford's office number and taps his foot as he waits for someone to answer. It rings a few times and then someone answers, "Clifford Wright, SEC Enforcement Division."
"Clifford. It's me...Markham."
There's a brief silence, followed by Clifford clearing his throat, "Oh, hey, Markham. You left the office earlier than usual. All ready?"
"Yeah. Listen, you're breaking up...uh, yeah...I'm just stopping by to grab a few things."
Clifford dryly chuckles, "Uh, yeah. Make sure to grab some sunblock while you're at it, OK? Haha!"
"Hmm. Sure thing, boss."
(Markham has no intent of doing that whatsoever).
Clifford queries, "So, what's on your mind?"
Markham mentions, "It's regarding what we talked about last night. It skipped my mind earlier tonight."
Clifford's long sigh is audible even through the phone, "Ah, right. Listen, Markham. Bernie Madoff is...too big to fail--"
Markham cuts in, "I know, that's why we have to nip it in the bud. Listen to that Harry guy, at least. I want the case, Clifford. I wanna do more digging into Bernie Madoff."
Clifford wearily replies, "Finish up with Flimont City first, then, and no promises here, I'll CONSIDER it."
Markham slowly nods, "Alright. Fine, fine."
Clifford chuckles, "But seriously, I think it's good you're going out there. It'll be a nice change of pace for you, y'know?"
Markham indifferently remarks, "I'm sure it'll be."
Clifford shrugs and tells the vampire, "Hey, have I ever invited you over for dinner? You've been with us for, what? Close to a decade now, right?"
"Something like that."
"Yeah, haha. How time flies, huh? Listen, once you get back from sunny Flimont, I want you to come over to my house, have some dinner with me and my wife."
"Uh..."
Clifford jokingly says, "It's an order from your boss. Haha! Just...be sure to do your job down there, alright?"
"Yeah, yeah. Sure thing, I'll do my best. I just need to take care of a few things, then I'm outta here."
"Goodnight, Markham."
"Goodnight, Clifford."
The call ends and Markham goes back into Darla's office, "Alright. All done."
Darla's busy writing things on a piece of paper, "Hmm? Oh, great." She puts her pen down, "So, what's up? I--"
She leans forward and gives him a sideways look, "--overheard you mentioning Bernard Madoff. What's up with him?"
Markham sighs deeply and plops down on a nearby couch, "I...don't know. He's just...too good to be true."
Darla leans back in her swiveling chair and taps her chipped nail on the table, "Really? From what I've heard, he promises some really insane returns."
Markham advises her, "I'd hold off on investing, if I were you."
Darla looks confused, but she nods, "Sure."
There is a tense silence that lingers in the air. It's occasionally broken by printers, computers, and other technological devices whirring, purring, and humming in the background.
Darla gives a thumb-back motion to a room behind her, "I've got your papers being printed out now. After that, I'll have to laminate 'em and all. Y'know...for safety."
Markham says, "Thanks. I appreciate it."
He looks around and casually remarks, "Lots of computers and technology around here, Darla. Aren't you worried?"
"About what?"
"..."
Darla dismissively waves her hand, "It's a new century. Besides, this whole modern technology thing has lots of applications for us Kindred."
"Yeah, but the dot-com bubble already burst, and--"
She cuts in, "Yeah, yeah, I know what you mean, Markham."
Darla tells him, "Y'know, there are some vampires that thrive on this kind of thing."
"How so?"
Darla cheekily grins, "Ever heard of the SchreckNet?"
Markham says, "In passing. It's supposed to be some kind of computer network thing created and maintained by your Clan."
"Yeah, if we had the right resources, we could expand it for the other Clans...and Bloodlines as well."
"Sounds...ambitious."
Darla snickers, "Yeah, but it's a world of possibilities out there for us, Markham. The new century brings with it many changes."
Markham's lips twitch, "Maybe."
Darla's printer suddenly comes to life and starts spitting out pages of what is presumably Markham's alternate identification.
She gets up to go and check on it. She taps her chin a few times and mumbles something to herself.
The Crawler asks, "Hey, do ya like Beckett as a fake last name?"
Markham shrugs a shoulder, "Sure. I'm going to Flimont in an official capacity, but having an alternative ID might come in handy if I need it."
Darla nods, "Yup, yup. Now, let's see..." she pores over the papers she's printing out, "...your stuff is mostly here and mostly done."
She sits down at a computer and drags her mouse to check a few things, "Hmm...there's nothing I can do about that. We don't exactly have a database set up yet. Sorry."
Markham nods, "It's fine. Whatever you give me should hold. In theory."
Darla turns back to give him a look, "'In theory'? I'm the best at this kinda stuff. This ain't my first time doing this."
Markham raises his hand in surrender, "I'm just saying, it's a lot more complicated than a lot of people realize."
Darla sighs and returns to what she was doing.
Markham asks the Nossie, "So, does it ever get lonely down here?"
"Plenty much, why? YOU feel lonely, Markham?"
Markham rubs the back of his neck, "Well, you know what I mean..."
Darla playfully pokes the Baali's cheek, "Aww, c'mon."
"I mean, you could pass for a mortal topside, like at some comic con or whatever they call it. Just say the blue skin is...paint?"
Darla chuckles and blushes, "Awww, you're just saying that to make me feel nice about...the procedures I've had done."
"Oh?"
"Yeah. A Tzimisce helped stitch me up. I was...not very pretty after o--or before my Embrace. Now, I owe that Tzimisce a favor and she's...gonna ask me for some stuff in the near future."
Markham curiously asks, "And the blue skin? Was that also a side effect after your Embrace or...?"
Darla lets that question hang in the cool and silent air for a while, "That was uh...I don't know. Maybe. I think it has to do with the fact that my body went through all sorts of weird shit after my Embrace."
"I'm sorry, Darla."
Darla dismissively waves her hand, as if she is trying to get rid of a buzzing fly, "Ach, don't be. I've--I am making my peace with it."
"It's what's on the inside that counts, anyway, right?"
"Right."
Markham paces around a circle and recalls something, "Y'know back in the day, there were these comics about little blue people called Smurfs."
Darla sighs, facepalms, and mumbles, "Oh my god. Call me anything but that. Not a fucking Smurf, Markham. Please. Please, I beg you."
Markham chuckles and continues, "I used to like readin' them. And uh...well, yeah that's it."
Darla regards him for a few moments, "That's it? A little tidbit from your illustrious past?"
"Mm-hmm."
"Well, OK. Anything else? And please, don't compare me to a fucking Smurf...of all the things..."
"Hmm...I have a small request to make."
Darla playfully feigns shock, "You have a request?! What? Oh my goodness! What did you do?"
Markham shakes his head, "Oh, it's nothing like that. I need you to keep an eye on a good friend...of mine."
Darla gestures for him to go on, which he does, "Her name's Jamie. She's my co-worker. She's a good person, Darla and I don't want any harm coming to her while I'm out."
Darla's features soften and she leans back, "Aww, is someone a bit sweet on a girl?"
Markham coughs and looks away, "I just want to know that she'll be safe, Darla. Make sure that none of the other Kindred here try to bite into her o--or worse."
Darla slowly nods her head, "That's a big ask. What's so special about this Jamie, anyway?"
Markham nervously answers, "I...consider her to be my Touchstone, Darla. I want to know she'll be safe. If anything happens to her, I will...I don't know how I will react, but it won't be pretty."
A Touchstone is a connection of a vampire to the mortal world. Most Touchstones are humans, but they can also be places or objects.
It helps keep a vampire in touch with their Humanity.
Darla licks her lips, "I'll--I'll see what I can do, but I can't make any promises and you know that."
Markham slightly bows his head, "Thank you, Darla."
The 2 Kindred proceed to talk about this and that.
Darla mentions that Flimont City has a sizeable French-speaking population. The whole damn city is basically mini Wall Street. The top dogs of the city are all about the money, the money, and more money, Darla tells him.
Flimont is a city for the rich and powerful. A haven for those who seek riches and more riches.
A city for those for whom more is never enough. As such, its infrastructure and social programs have suffered greatly over the years.
Even the Prince of that city isn't above greasing his palms and taking bribes (and doing the same in return). Markham figures that much.
It's not the sort of environment he is used to dealing with. He prefers cities that are a bit more...civilized.
There's a great wealth gap in Flimont City and the chasm is growing deeper and wider as the nights roll on.
Markham figures it's only a matter of time before it all comes crashing down. He can sense this and he knows there are others that share the same concern, too.
Desperation and despondence characterize this vast and crushing metropolis in the American Midwest. Out there, it really is dog eat dog.
Markham mentally prepares himself for all that is to come in the next few nights. Little did he know how things would transpire, and how it would change everything.
"Oh yeah, I almost forgot," Darla begins, "Ya mentioned you like comic books, right? Do ya remember which one was your favorite?"
"The Adventures of Tintin."
"Yeah, haha! I like that little dog in those comics."
"Hmm. Snowy..." A distant look comes over the Baali's pale face.
"Yup, yup. I think I'll check out the comic books while you're away. Y'know, do some reading, haha!"
"Yeah, sure...and please don't forget the other thing, OK? Jamie's good people, Darla."
Darla's lower lip shifts from side to side, "I'll check in on her every now and then. So, you decided on how you're gonna go to F-City? Plane? Driving? By truck?"
Markham's lips quiver, "Hmm...I think I'll be taking a plane to Flimont."
Darla whistles, "Lucky you. As a stowaway, right?"
"Mm-hmm. I'll need you to arrange extra blood on the trip. I don't want to go into a Frenzy on the plane. I'll pay the extra cash, but I need the blood."
Darla nods, "Sure, no problem. I'll let you know what the charges are gonna be for that."
"Thanks."
Darla snickers, "You know, you're actually not a bad guy, Markham. I mean, like, for a vampire who's supposed to be worshipping the devil and all that."
Markham pointedly tells her, "I don't really care much about that...aspect of my Bloodline, Darla. I just don't care about what o--or who's supposedly upstairs."
Darla leans forward, "Agnostic, huh? Still searching? Well, what DO you care about, then?"
"People. Kindred, mortal, Ghoul, whatever. I just...I just want everyone to play fair and by the same rules, y'know?"
Darla dryly snorts, "Y'know, I know some folks who wouldn't give ya a 2nd look if they knew what you really were."
"People are more than their Clan or Bloodline, Darla..."
"Yeah, yeah, I get that. Hey, anyway, it's a good thing you're taking the big jumbo jet to Flimont City."
"Why?"
"Driving all the way there's risky."
"How so?"
Darla snickers and looks askance at the Baali, "Let's just say the highways to F-City are pretty damn dangerous these nights. There's Garou all over the place, especially in the countryside and they--they're out for blood. Our Blood, specifically."
"Werewolves, huh? I've heard about them. They sound like...dangerous people."
"Oh, you're not wrong about that, buddy. But who knows, maybe the 21st century might bring about some kinda peace between us, y'know? Like, maybe there's a common ground that we Kindred can all find with the Garou."
Markham scratches his cheek and tells the Nosferatu, "I hope so, Darla. Truth be told, I'm not as optimistic about the new century as you are, but I try to hold on. F--For my sanity's sake, and all that."
Darla clicks her tongue, "Ah. You know, if you're gonna be in F-City, you should probably make friends with a few of the locals. Kindred, specifically."
"I'm trying NOT to get involved in all of that, Darla. I'm going there to do my job and hopefully uncover evidence of wrongdoing and bring the wrongdoers to justice."
The Nossie wistfully says, "I can't help but feel like that's gonna be an impossible dream, though, y'know? It's Flimont City. Wrongdoing's kinda their whole...thing down there."
Markham thinks about that for a few seconds, "Maybe. But I have faith in the system, Darla. We can try our best with the tools we've got at our disposal, no matter how...limited they may be."
"Suuuure."
The 2 vampires spend the next few hours in idle chatter about everything from Unlife to politics to current events. Markham's phone eventually rings and he excuses himself to answer it.
It's some random junk call, with a garbled voice mumbling something unintelligible through static.
Markham hangs up the phone a few seconds later and returns to Darla, who's busy scanning a few papers.
Once all the vampire's fake papers are done, he says goodbye to the blue lady, thanking her once more for her help and services.
"Hey, don't sweat it. We're good, OK? So, remember, I'll be checking in with your Jamie every now and then. And, I might call in that favor you're gonna owe to me. It might be a year from now or...a 100 years from now."
Markham's eyebrows quickly shoot up, "Remind me to never piss you off, Darla."
"Stay safe out there and safe travels!"
"Hmm. Goodnight, Darla. You stay safe in your little...office."
Darla playfully rolls her eyes, "'Night, Markham."
The 2 Kindred head their separate ways. Darla takes the elevator upstairs to the main floor of the building and Markham exits via the door, which slides open when he gets close to it.
Next Destination: Flimont City.
Chapter 2: Flimont City
A few nights later, at an Italian restaurant somewhere in this vast Midwestern metropolis...
At this time of night, this usually busy restaurant is now devoid of any customers. It's the hour after midnight and no one is around, even the employees have taken their leave.
Soft orange ambient light bathes the restaurant in a warm glow. The floors are checkerboard red and white and there are numerous tables spread out across it.
The bar has stools lined up all along its side. The chairs at the tables are covered in fresh white cloths.
All is silent and peaceful, save for the soft music playing from unseen speakers. The place is immaculate, just as it should be for its incoming guests.
2 figures dressed in black trench coats and wearing fedoras approach the entrance.
The 1st is a man in his late-30s. He is slightly short, has pomaded hair, and is wearing a jet-black suit with a matching fedora. He has a cigarette hanging out of his mouth and a briefcase in his right hand.
His left hand is shoved deep into his coat pocket.
The other person is a woman in her late-30s.
Her apricot hair is styled into a high up-do, with a few loose strands dangling by the side of her face. She's wearing a red cocktail dress, which is sleeveless and form-fitting.
Her light green-brown eyes scan every inch of this temporary meeting place. Her flats clack against the tiled floor as she walks. She is wearing a pair of silver earrings, a thin silver necklace, and a matching bracelet.
She clenches her fist and calls out to the man, "All clear, Prince Antonio."
The Prince thanks her, "Thank you, Sheriff Velma. You know, I like to keep things interesting, that's why I called tonight's meeting at Peppy's Pizzeria. Fuckin' guy owes me 20 large and I'm looking to collect, you dig?"
Sheriff Velma states, "I'd still feel better if we held such meetings at Elysium."
Prince Antonio dismissively waves his hand, "Nah, we're having it here and that's that. It's not THAT important of a meeting, anyway."
Sheriff Velma concedes, "As you wish, my Prince."
The Prince looks at her with his dark-blue eyes and taunts her, "What's the matter? You're a Sheriff, aren'tcha? You're a Ventrue like me. You should be used to this by now."
Sheriff Velma remains where she is, "I still haven't been able to find the Tzimisce Primogen."
"Hmph. We got that doctor coming in tonight. I think I'll appoint him as the new Primogen."
Sheriff Velma's lips twitch, "That's not very wise, Prince Antonio. He's too young and far too dedicated to his profession."
"Dr. Collins is a good guy. He's one of the few that's been helpful to us. He's useful, capeesh?"
Sheriff Velma dryly responds, "Understood. Will the Primogen Council accept someone like him?"
Prince Antonio replies, "They'll accept whatever I tell 'em to. The Ivory Tower ain't a democracy and I run my Court however I damn well please."
Sheriff Velma sighs and tells her Prince, "Of course. My...apologies."
She continues, "But, with all due respect, he is a Neonate and is quite well-known for being dedicated to his work at his clinic. We cannot just appoint him without a thorough vetting process. He'll be an asset, but not right away."
Prince Antonio gives her a stern look, "Then, you better get on to that, Velma. I thought you already vetted the guy..." he tsks at her disapprovingly.
"I didn't expect...him to be picked. I assumed you were going to pick the dentist, Dr. Sarah."
Prince Antonio takes a seat at the front table and asks, "Her?! Fuck no! Dr. Collins is my choice and that's that. I won't have you or anyone else question my decisions. I've run this fuckin' city for a 100 years--"
Sheriff Velma cuts in, "Yes, and I've been by your side for 5 decades and I will continue to support your decisions."
Prince Antonio glowers at her, "Don't interrupt me when I speak, Velma. I know how long you've been with me. Just don't forget what happens when you're too soft, Velma."
"I know. I know."
After a few very tense moments, the door opens and a familiar figure walks into the restaurant, "Sorry I'm late, Prince Antonio. Traffic was a bit--"
"Hello, Dr. Collins. Please, come in, come in!" Prince Antonio gets up to usher the Tzimisce doctor to his seat.
Sheriff Velma turns her attention to the newcomer, "Doctor Collins, welcome. I apologize for the short notice."
Dr. Collins is in his 60s. A pair of thin-framed glasses is perched on his nose. He's wearing a long-sleeved collared shirt, brown trousers, and a pair of polished black shoes.
"It was a bit unexpected, yes. I've had to push some appointments back. But, no worries. I am glad to be of here and of service." He pulls a chair out and sits down.
His dark and baggy eyes scan the room and he ruffles his thinning hair, "So, what's on the agenda for tonight?"
Prince Antonio is the one to answer, "You are."
Dr. Collins gives the Ventrue a confused look, "Excuse me?"
The Prince simply says, "We'll get to it when the others show up."
The next one to arrive does so by the back door. She is a woman in her late-70s. She's wearing a gray dress, a faded blouse, and a pair of sandals.
She has shoulder-length silver hair and hazel-colored eyes.
That would be the Malkavian Primogen, Clarice.
She speaks with a typical Midwestern accent and carries herself with a sense of pride and confidence.
The Malkavian Primogen has an almost unusual aura about her. She is not an ordinary creature of the night, but her presence has been invaluable to the Camarilla power vertical over the years.
Clarice surveys the restaurant and opines, "Italian. Mid-range. Crowded on most nights...and days. Owner currently owes sizable debt to various parties and he's in dire straits."
Prince Antonio smirks and looks at the others, "Thank you, Clarice, for that ever-so-wonderful assessment. We'll just have to take the place over. Oh, and Clarice?"
She gives a curt nod, "Yes, Prince Antonio?"
He snidely continues, "Can you try to not speak so loudly? Use your...inner voice, yeah. Inner. Voice."
Clarice's expression falters and she says nothing to that. The Sheriff refrains from commenting.
The Malkavian Primogen turns her attention to the Tzimisce doctor, "Hello there. You are?"
He puts on a smile and extends his cold hand, "Dr. Collins. Tzimisce Clan."
"Oh, a Flesh-Shaper doctor. How...interesting." She shakes his hand and makes a sour face.
Dr. Collins inquires, "Do you have some...conditions that need treatment?"
She laughs, "Darling, I have not been afflicted with any ailments for decades. Besides, us Kindred are incapable of falling prey to the sicknesses and filth that mortals are so often afflicted with."
She then introduces herself, "My name is Clarice, Clan Malkavian."
Dr. Collins counters, "Well, Kindred do get 'sick'. It's something I study every now and then."
Clarice dismissively waves her hand, "Poppycock, Dr. Collins. Poppycock."
Dr. Collins shrugs, "Well, if you do feel under the weather, come by my clinic and I can examine you."
Clarice smiles and chuckles, "Such a well-mannered gentleman. You are a Stoker, are you not? Is it true your Clan specializes in the art of body alteration or whatever highfalutin name you've given it?"
Dr. Collins's dead eyes light up, "Very much so. I also offer that as a service, if you're interested."
Clarice wistfully strokes her wrinkly face, "I might be interested. I shall consider your offer, Doctor."
Dr. Collins politely nods, "I'm not going anywhere. We can talk later."
"Hmmm."
A loud roar of a car's engine reverberates throughout the otherwise silent eatery.
All of the Kindred in the restaurant look out the window, only to see a bright yellow muscle car approaching the restaurant. It's a modded 1970 Chevrolet Corvette Stingray. A neon-blue flame is painted on the hood and the roof. The interior of the car is brightly decorated, with a lot of chrome and shiny stuff.
Some dude gets out of the car and wolf-howls into the air like a maniac.
He's yanked back in by the driver and he gets out of the car while the howling dude stays put.
A 20-something Hispanic man wearing a tight tank top and a pair of loose jeans approaches the restaurant. His skin is a dark tan color and he has short-cropped dark hair.
He's got cool tattoos all over his strong arms and neck.
His name is Pedro, and he's the Gangrel Primogen. He's also wearing a pair of fingerless gloves and he's carrying a leather jacket.
Pedro is the most...unconventional member of the Primogen Council. He has a certain charm and charisma about him. The other Gangrel respect him and he respects them.
The Gangrel in this city are all pretty tight-knit. A majority of them in this city are Cholos- members of a Chicano and Latin American subculture associated with baggy clothes, tats, lowriders, and all that dope stuff.
(Of course, it's much more than that. It's also a philosophy about community and camaraderie.)
Pedro pushes the door open and spreads his arms out, "Yo, homies!"
He looks around and sees no one respond, "What's up? You look like shit tonight. Who got turned to ash, huh?"
He takes his seat and puts his feet up on the table, grinning from ear to ear, "What's up, Doc?"
Dr. Collins nods to the Feral, "Pedro. Try not to get into any more accidents."
Pedro clicks his tongue, "Eyyy. If I do, you can use your crazy-ass Vicissitude to put me back together, right doc?"
"It's painful, Pedro. Very painful. It isn't a simple stitch-up."
The Gangrel shrugs, "Sweeet. I don't mind it, doc."
Dr. Collins says, "Hmmm. Just stay safe out there. I'm telling you as the closest thing you'll ever have to a doctor."
The Outlander gives the good doctor a 2-finger salute, "Will do, doc. Will do, heh."
Prince Antonio gets up from his seat and sighs, "You done with the medical advice, doc?"
"Yes."
The Prince clears his throat and brings his hands together in a small clap, "Well, I'm sure you're all wondering why I called the Primogen Council here tonight, and not at our usual meeting place, Elysium."
Clarice inquires, "Yes, why are we all here, Prince Antonio?"
Prince Antonio begins, "First things first. Have any of you heard from the Tzimisce Primogen? It's not like Galeb to up and leave like this."
A hush falls over the table and a few heads shake.
Prince Antonio paces around and looks at everyone gathered, "Well, anyone?"
Clarice speculates, "Maybe he was Beckoned away. Elders the world over are succumbing to its call at an alarming rate. It's as if the Earth is calling out to them."
"Or maybe, someone took him."
Prince Antonio turns to Sheriff Velma, "What makes you say that?"
Dr. Collins shifts in his seat and rests his cheek against the heel of his hand, "It's only natural to assume he was Beckoned, or taken. Maybe."
Pedro cluelessly nods along, "Yeah. I didn't know the guy that well, but him being Beckoned off does sound par for the course. What with him being an Elder and all."
Prince Antonio isn't wholly convinced, "Damnit. It's just...not like him to suddenly leave the fuckin' city. Are you people sure you haven't heard ANYTHING from Galeb? Anything at all? A whisper, a fuckin' note, a hint? Anything?!"
No one replies, but Clarice speaks up, "I will keep a ear to the ground and I will make sure we haven't missed anything. And I will also recommend that you have Sheriff Velma do the same."
Prince Antonio turns his attention to the Stoker, "What about you, doc? Wasn't Galeb a pal of yours?"
The Prince intensifies his gaze, "Anything you know that the rest of us don't?"
Dr. Collins folds his arms and equably replies, "I know as much as you all do. I'm just in the dark as much as you are. To hear that he went missing, it was...surprising to me as well."
Prince Antonio glowers, "Well, if you know anything, you better get it the fuck out, and right now. Do you understand?"
Dr. Collins's jaw tightens, "Prince Antonio, I DON'T know anything. Believe me, I want to find Galeb as much as the next person, but I've...looked everywhere I can possibly look and think of. There's nothing. He's gone."
The Prince STILL doesn't look convinced, "Hm. Fine. But, if you DO find something, I expect to hear about it as soon as possible."
Dr. Collins curtly nods, "Understood. You'll be the 1st to know." His tone holds a subtle trace of knowing more than he lets on, but it's gone as quick as it appeared.
Prince Antonio slowly nods his head, "We'll discuss this later."
Dr. Collins nods his head, "Sure."
Pedro raises his hand, "Eyyy, so why did you call this meeting?"
Prince Antonio answers, "With Galeb missing, I can't have nobody occupying the position of Tzimisce Primogen, so I've decided to appoint Dr. Collins here as the new Primogen."
Clarice interjects, "I'm sorry, Prince Antonio. Did I hear that correctly?"
The Tzimisce doctor is surprised, but not wholly. There's something going on with him and he appears to know a lot more about Galeb's disappearance than he lets on.
The Malkavian Primogen's gaze intensifies.
The Feral sniffs the air and whistles, "Doctor Collins. Goin' up in the world, huh? Hey, good for you. I accept!"
(Like his "vote" makes a difference).
Clarice counters by stating, "And I object! He is a doctor who spends most of his nights dealing with the ailments of mortals. He knows next to nothing about the inner-workings of the Camarilla."
Dr. Collins remains surprisingly composed throughout all of this.
Prince Antonio is not so pleased, "It doesn't matter. I've already made my decision and your ayes and nays mean squat. Collins, get up here."
Clarice shrugs and passive-aggressively says, "Hmph, very well. You are the Prince, after all. Typical Blue Blood behavior."
Prince Antonio shoots her a baleful glance, "What'd you say?"
Clarice speaks her mind, "Arrogance. Ventrue Clan Compulsion. They always have to be right and have the final say in all things. It is to be expected."
The Ventrue looks like he's ready to pounce on her on the spot.
Dr. Collins quickly stands up, "I...uh...accept the position of Primogen for Clan Tzimisce. It would be my honor and privilege to serve the Court."
Prince Antonio looks at the doctor and cracks a weak smile, "Thank you, doc. That's what I like to hear."
Dr. Collins sits back down and Sheriff Velma looks at the Prince, "So, how will we handle the transition period and all?"
The Blue Blood Prince shrugs, "There's nothing formal about it. Collins here is the Primogen and that's that. However..."
He turns his full gaze to the Stoker, "...consider this an interim thing. Finding Galeb is still my top priority. Capeesh?"
Dr. Collins lightly chuckles, "Capeesh."
Clarice steeples her fingers together and focuses her attention on the Stoker, "Tell me, Doctor Collins. Are you interested in joining the Primogen Council? Will you take your duties seriously?"
The Stoker pauses for a few moments to gather his thoughts and replies, "I'm a doctor, first and foremost. I took the Hippocratic Oath and I intend to uphold it for all of my Unlife. I also want to serve the Camarilla and I am more than happy to serve my Prince and the city itself."
Prince Antonio looks pleased by all of this, "Good, good." He turns to the others, "So, any questions?"
Pedro shakes his head, "Nah, all good. I think the doc here will make a great Primogen."
Clarice merely nods.
Sheriff Velma steps forward from the corner she has been silently standing in, "Well, congratulations, Dr. Collins. Welcome to the Primogen Council." She extends her hand out. He shakes it.
It's cold and dead. Just like his.
The Ventrue Sheriff looks at him from head to toe, "I'll need to perform another background check on you." It sounds more like a statement than a request. Her tone is not particularly hostile, but it's not exactly friendly either.
It's...cold. Very much so. Like the rest of her.
Dr. Collins stiffens, "Uh, sure. I wanna make 1 thing clear: despite being of the Tzimisce Clan, I have nothing to do with the Sabbat. We're all Old Clan Tzimisce in Flimont City."
Sheriff Velma smirks, subtly, "Good to hear."
Prince Antonio nods, "Yeah, we've got a good deal going on here for the past 100 years. Don't knock it, don't fuck it up." He gives the new Primogen a stern look.
Dr. Collins remains cool and calm, "Of course, Prince Antonio. We will continue to work with the others for the betterment of Kindred Society."
The Ventrue Prince directly asks, "You got a Ghoul, Collins? If not, I recommend getting 1...or more, heh."
"Yes, I do. His name's Brock. He's a good guy. I trust him with my Unlife," the doctor speaks of his Ghoul with pride and warm approval.
The bond between a Kindred and their Ghoul is quite strong, almost too much so for the latter.
Clarice holds up a finger and winces, "I...sense an unusual presence lingering nearby."
Markham pushes the front door open and dryly says, "Sorry I'm late. I was stuck in traffic, it's crazy in this city. I've never seen anything like it." He has a briefcase in 1 hand.
His hair is slightly messier and his clothes are a bit wrinkled. There are bags under his eyes. He looks like he hasn't slept in a few days. He looks a bit worse for wear.
Sheriff Velma steps forward and escorts the weary Baali to a seat, "This is the one I told you about, Prince Antonio."
Prince Antonio struts forward to get a better look at this guest in his city, "Ah, I see. So, Markham, is it? Tell us what Clan you belong to. And more importantly, what's the nature of your business in my city?"
Markham clears his throat and answers, "Not Clan, but Bloodline. I belong to the Baali."
The Gangrel Primogen's eyes widen in horror and he loudly gasps. No one else reacts in a similar way- they remain unaffected and unfazed.
Pedro gets up from his seat and approaches the Baali, "No fucking way, man! No, no, no!"
With a look of dread and trepidation on his face, he turns to his fellow Primogen, "Are you all goddamn blind?! Don't you see what he is?!"
The other Kindred remain silent. Their eyes are locked onto the newcomer, but none of them say anything.
Pedro explodes, "He's a fucking devil worshiper! We don't fuck with that shit, OK?! We might be dead and damned, but we don't fuck with that devil worshipper shit!"
Markham raises his hand and says, "Please, if you would allow me to explain. I--"
He is cut off when Pedro angrily shoves him back.
Sheriff Velma immediately steps in and puts herself between the Feral and the newcomer, "Pedro, I strongly advise you to calm down. Right. Now." Her tone is cold, flat, and unyielding.
Her eyes are filled with warning.
Pedro grunts, but raises his hands in surrender. He takes a seat, but he keeps his dead eyes locked on the SEC investigator.
Prince Antonio chuckles, "Jesus, calm the fuck down, Pedro. It's just Markham here." He turns his attention back to Markham and asks, "So, what brings you to our city?"
Markham adjusts his collar and ignores the Gangrel, "I work as an Enforcement Investigator for the SEC. I'm here on an official capacity. I have no intention of getting involved with whatever it is you people have going on here."
Prince Antonio whistles, "SEC, huh? Fuck me sideways--"
Clarice cuts in, "SEC. Securities and Exchange Commission. Formed June 6th, 1934. Main headquarters is located in nation's capital--"
Prince Antonio sighs, "Clarice. Shut up. Inside voice, OK? We don't need a fucking history lesson. So, what brings someone from the SEC to our sunny paradise, hmm?"
Markham firmly, yet respectfully says, "I'm not at liberty to say that. It's an ongoing investigation."
The Prince feels miffed and he clicks his tongue, "Well, that's too bad. You got a place to snooze during the day?" He turns to Sheriff Velma and asks, "You got any spare 'rooms' at that storage unit we rent out?"
Sheriff Velma shakes her head, "It's over capacity with the local homeless population."
Prince Antonio tsks, "Tch, tch. Well, you'll have to make do with what you have, Baali."
"Sure."
The Blue Blood Prince thinks for a while, "Uh, let's see...what else was I gonna ask you...?"
Markham reassures, "I'm not here to get involved or cause trouble. Once I'm done with my investigation, I'll leave. That's it."
The Ventrue Sheriff looks at him with a neutral expression on her pale face, "We appreciate that. But, we must also ask you to understand how we must treat your presence here."
She lazily gestures to the fuming Gangrel, "It would seem that some of us aren't keen on...what's your Clan again?"
"Bloodline. Baali."
Velma nods, "Right. The Baali are well-known in Kindred Society for their...proclivities. If you didn't know, there's a small contingent of them in this city. Were you aware of that?"
Markham folds his arms, "First time I'm hearing it. Anyway, I don't really care much about the whole devil-worship part of my Clan."
"BULLSHIT!" Pedro shouts out.
"Oh, come now," Clarice tiredly chides, "Please, control yourself, Feral. We are all civilized vampires here. There's no need for such...outbursts."
Pedro clicks his tongue and shakes his head, "Man, fuck this shit. This guy's no different from those Sabbat assholes! Can't you all see that?!"
Prince Antonio rolls his eyes, "Shut up, Pedro--"
Markham springs up from his seat and points a finger at the Gangrel, "I am NOT a Sabbat! I am NOTHING like those fucking animals! I'm--I'm just trying to do my job!"
Velma gets between the 2 Kindred, "Gentlemen, please--"
"Get outta the way, Velma! This is between me and the fucking devil-worshipper!" Pedro growls.
Markham growls back, "Go on."
Prince Antonio has had enough. He thunders, "That's enough! Shut the fuck up, Pedro! Markham, shut your piehole! You're not helping your case here by being so hostile. Sit down, both of you!"
Pedro reluctantly complies while Markham indifferently huffs and takes his seat.
Clarice says nothing, but she's watching this whole scene play out with a keen interest. She appears to be taking in every little detail and word that is exchanged.
Even Dr. Collins watches on with a neutral and blank expression.
Sheriff Velma sighs and stands by the Baali's side, "As I was saying. If you didn't know, the Baali in this city are known for their--"
Pedro interjects, "Fucked up shit."
Sheriff Velma sharply exhales, "That's...1 way of putting it."
Markham sternly repeats himself, "I'm not into that, I'm not interested in any of that, and I sure as hell am NOT part of the goddamn Sabbat. I'm here to do my job and then I'll leave. That's it. If you don't want me here, I can leave right now."
He stands up and picks up his briefcase, "Goodnight, Prince Antonio."
"Wait, wait, wait!" Prince Antonio steps in front of the SEC investigator, "Now, hold on a sec. We didn't say anything about kicking you outta town."
Markham stares at him for a few moments, "Oh."
"Sit down."
Markham complies and Prince Antonio walks back to the front table and leans against it, "So, how long you gonna be in town, Markham?"
The Baali answers, "Until my investigation is complete."
Prince Antonio whistles, "And when's that gonna be?"
"When it's complete."
"What is it about? Who are you lookin' into?"
"I'm not at liberty to discuss the specifics. The less you know, the better."
"Hm. You sure about that? I got a lot of eyes and ears all over this city. You'd be surprised by how much I already know."
"Well, if I run into any obstacles, you'll be my 1st call, Prince Antonio."
Prince Antonio smirks, "Alright, alright. Stay as long as ya want, Baali. Velma here will familiarize you with some of the rules and stuff around these parts."
Markham nods to the Sheriff, "Understood."
He looks at the other Primogen, "I'll stay out of your way. I promise."
Pedro is still glaring daggers at the SEC agent, "You better, 'cause if I find out you're in Gangrel territory, I'll tear your fucking throat out and feed the rest of you to our pets. Pendejo (ES: asshole)."
The Prince steps in, "HEY! Knock it off, Pedro! The only one who does threats around here is ME, capeesh?"
Pedro dismissively waves his hand.
Sheriff Velma sternly declares, "As long as this Baali is in the city, he is under the protection of Prince Antonio and myself. Are we clear on that?"
Mumbles of assent (some more reluctant that others) fill the room.
Prince Antonio turns to Markham and says, "Welcome to Flimont City." He puts out his hand.
Markham shakes it, "Hmm. Thanks for having me."
Prince Antonio points to his Sheriff, "Clear up any doubts you got with her, but I gotta bounce now. And don't you dare take the good graces of Prince Antonio Black for granted. Capeesh?"
Markham curtly nods.
Prince Antonio says his goodbyes to the other Kindred. As he leaves, he looks over his shoulder, "And, Dr. Collins, congratulations on the...promotion. Don't fuck it up."
Dr. Collins respectfully nods, "Thank you, my Prince."
Prince Antonio takes his leave.
Once the Camarilla Prince is out of earshot, Pedro spits, "Fuck this. I'm outta here."
He turns to Clarice, "Hey, chica? You ever been in a lowrider before?"
The Malkavian Primogen's eyes dart around and she begins rattling off, "Lowrider. Customized car. Heavily...customized. Integral part of Chicano culture to which this Feral belongs. Associated with music, style, fashion, and--"
Pedro cuts in, "Yeah, yeah. Let's get going. I'll show you some of my friends' dope rides. You can even take a spin in 1 of them."
Clarice weakly smiles, "Of course. Thank you, Outlander."
Pedro lazily waves his hand, "Ahh, don't mention it, old-timer."
The Lunatic puts her arm around Pedro's arm as the 2 of them exit through the front door.
"Old-timer?" she curiously asks.
"Ehhhh..."
Markham watches as they leave and he wonders about the Malkavian Primogen, "What's her deal?"
Sheriff Velma folds her arms and looks down on Markham, "Never met a Mocker before?"
"Heard of 'em, but never really met one. I guess there's a 1st time for everything."
Sheriff Velma shrugs, "That's the Clan of the Moon for you."
Dr. Collins stands up and walks over to Markham. He inspects the Baali, as if looking for signs of sickness or malady.
He then extends his cold hand out, "I am Dr. Collins, the new Tzimisce Primogen. Pleasure to meet you."
Markham shakes it, "Markham. Baali."
Dr. Collins regards the newcomer for a few more seconds, "If you do...experience any...ailments, please come by my clinic. I'd be more than happy to provide treatment, should it be needed."
The Baali nods, "Uh, sure."
Dr. Collins produces a card from his pocket and hands it to Markham, "Here's my card. My clinic's address is written on the back. Drop by anytime."
As Markham is about to pocket the card, Dr. Collins spends a few moments intently looking at Markham's arms for some reason.
Dr. Collins mutters something incomprehensible to himself and strides off.
Markham looks down at his arms and wonders, "What the hell was that about?"
Sheriff Velma says, "Don't take it personally. He's a doctor, always on the lookout for sicknesses to cure and patients to treat."
"If you say so."
Markham puts the card in his pocket and Sheriff Velma clears her throat, "Well, now that you're officially in Flimont City, we need to set some ground rules, as Prince Antonio said."
"Hmm."
"First and most important of all: the Masquerade. If you've made it this long, then you already have a pretty good idea of what this entails. I don't have to give you an Unlife 101, right?"
"Nope. The Masquerade is pretty simple. Keep the Kindred existence a secret from mortals. No one talks about it. No one knows about it. Don't use your Disciplines out in the open and don't reveal your true nature to anybody. I get it."
Sheriff Velma nods approvingly, "Good. I like you already. Next up- feeding or hunting. You have any special...preferences?"
Markham answers, "Whatever is available. I'm not a picky eater."
Sheriff Velma replies, "I see. Well, if you need any help finding a good feeding spot, you can ask me. Also, stay the hell away from Ventrue feeding spots and vessels. This is non-negotiable."
"Understood."
"And if you do kill while feeding, your only call should be to me. I have a system of disposing of the bodies so they will never be found. And if you can't get a hold of me, you get rid of the body yourself and don't say a word to anyone about it."
"Fine by me. Anything else?"
"Where will you be sleeping in during the day?"
Markham replies, "I booked a hotel room."
"Which hotel?"
"Uh...Sheriton Grand. Room 1408."
Sheriff Velma thoughtfully nods, "I'll drop by to check on you every now and then. It's been a while since this city's seen newcomers."
Markham shrugs, "Whatever. I'm just here to do my actual job."
"What is your job, exactly? What are you investigating?"
The Baali looks at her dead in the eyes and bluntly states, "You know I can't tell you. Don't make me."
Sheriff Velma raises her hands in mock surrender, "I know Flimont has a rep. I've seen the worst of it for the past 5 decades."
She has a distant look on her otherwise composed and placid face, "I've seen the so-called 'underbelly' of this city."
She pauses and looks at Markham, "Don't make a mess of things and we'll get along just fine."
"Fine with me," Markham blandly answers, not too interested in or bothered with this particular conversation.
"And..." Sheriff Velma holds out a piece of paper wedged between her index and middle fingers, "Here's my number. Call me if anything comes up."
Markham takes it and gives it a once over, "You sure it's safe to be making calls?"
"'Course." She slinks back into the corner she has been silently occupying most of the night.
Markham nods, "Alright." He picks up his briefcase and gets up to leave.
As he opens the front door, Sheriff Velma calls out to him, "Hey!"
Markham stifles a sigh, "Hmm?"
"Don't do anything stupid. Remember: you're a guest in our Domain and when in Rome..."
Markham dryly completes her sentence, "...do as the Romans do, got it."
He takes his leave.
The Ventrue Sheriff watches as the Baali leaves. She feels uneasy about a Kindred from the SEC being in this city. Him being a Baali just adds to that uneasiness.
"Well, this ought to be interesting."
She flips all the lights off, covers the furniture, and prepares to head out. Lastly, she makes sure everything is locked up tight.
Once satisfied, she goes out through the back door and closes it shut. She puts her trench coat back on and fades away into the night.
Outside, Markham gets into his rental car- a black sedan- and drives off into the dark night.
In Flimont City, things will go on as usual. Nothing is out of place, or so it seems. Nothing can be permitted to be out of place.
Nothing at all.
Chapter 3: LDJ
The sun begins its rapid and grand ascent. It rises up and out of the horizon. It casts a golden glow over the city. They call this place "Sunshine City" and it isn't for no reason.
It's oddly...enchanting at this hour, just as the sun rises and spills its light on everything (and everyone) below.
The city is still quiet at this time. Not many are awake yet, except for those on the night shift and those who unfortunately have no work. There are a few delivery trucks moving about, but that's the only traffic on the road.
The Kindred in this part of the world give in to the pulling sluggishness that is the day-sleep.
Their undead bodies sink into an abyss of sorts where they rejuvenate and restore their supernatural strength. This is the time where they are at their weakest and most vulnerable.
(And it is the only time where their physical and mental bodies can be safely dealt with by mortals without much resistance.)
In a small and crappy apartment...
There's moaning and groaning sounds coming from a small bedroom. A dark-skinned woman with a curvy body and a pretty face is bent over on all fours and getting anal from a man.
She's biting her lip and trying her best not to scream. She doesn't want to wake the neighbors.
Her ass is bouncing up and down on the guy's cock and she seems to be loving every second of it.
"Oh, yeah, oh, baby. Fuck me...harder! Oh, Luciano!"
Luciano thrusts into her with all his strength, causing the bed to creak and groan. He's sweating and breathing heavily. He's pounding her so hard that he's about to cum already. His cock is twitching and throbbing inside her.
The woman arches her back and moans, "Oh, fuck! Luciano--"
The mattress creaks and sags with every move. The springs squeak loudly.
This woman's apartment is located in a more rundown and gritty part of the city- a part neglected by the rich and powerful.
There are rats in the walls and roaches everywhere. The air is thick with a sickly-sweet smell of rotting garbage.
The woman's name is Angelique, but she goes by "Angie."
Her frizzy hair is a mess and her lips are smudged with lipstick. Her eyes are closed and she's lost in the pleasure of the moment.
There's some train tracks located a few meters away from Angie's pad. When the trains pass, they make a loud screeching noise that can be heard all over the neighborhood.
The morning sun begins to peek through the grimy window, casting a yellowish light on the bedroom. It's a sad sight to behold, but it's not the worst room in the building.
A train passes, causing a few objects and trinkets to rattle and vibrate. Angie screams out in pure bliss, completely muffled by the sounds of the fast trains.
Luciano grunts and moans as he thrusts into her 1 last time. He explodes deep inside her and fills her up with his cum.
He pulls back and heaves a sigh of relief.
Angie gets up and sits on the edge of the bed, catching her breath.
She looks over her shoulder at Luciano, who's lying on the bed looking up at the ceiling, "So, you gonna stay or what?"
Luciano is out of breath and sweaty. He tiredly mutters, "I gotta bounce. I got a meeting at 10."
Angie shrugs, "OK."
She gets up and goes to the bathroom to take a shower.
Luciano relaxes on her creaky bed, a smirk of self-assuredness on his face. He interlocks his fingers behind his head and absentmindedly looks up at the ceiling.
Angie turns the shower on and steps under the hot water. She washes her body and scrubs away the sweat and other stuff from her skin.
After a few minutes, Luciano gets up and starts getting dressed. He puts on his underwear, trousers, and shirt. He adjusts his collar and smooths out his hair.
He grabs his very expensive blazer off the grimy ground, grimaces, and puts it on.
Angie gets out of the shower and dries herself off with a towel. She wraps it around her body and walks out into the bedroom.
Luciano is ready to leave, "Well, I gotta go now."
Angie folds her arms and leans against the doorway, "Luciano, you promised you were gonna break up with Sophie. You promised, Luciano."
Luciano scoffs and looks at her, "Look, what difference does it make? I'll break it up with Sophie tonight, OK?"
Angie clenches her jaw, "You said that last week, until I caught you gettin' all busy with her in that fancy restaurant."
Luciano sighs deeply, "Look, Angelique, I got a meeting I need to get ready for. Can we talk about this another time? Please?"
Angie rolls her eyes and lets her boyfriend go, "Hmph, fine. But if I ever see you with her again, I'll--"
She stops herself, shuts her eyes, and looks away, "J--Just promise me that you'll stop seeing her, OK? I--I like you Luciano."
Luciano takes a deep breath and steps up to his girlfriend. He cups her cheek with his hand, "I like you too, Angelique. I'm sorry for everything. I'll do better next time, I promise."
Angie shakes her head, "Hmph. Go on, go do whatever it is you do...Luciano Donovan Jr."
LDJ smirks when he hears his full name. It's a long story. He pats his girlfriend's cheek, "See ya, and thanks for the fun night."
He kisses her on the lips and takes his leave. Angie closes the door behind him and locks it.
Luciano is a cocky, brash, and abrasive man in his early-20s. His face is neatly shaved, his skin is fair and devoid of any major blemishes, and his brown hair is perfectly combed and styled.
He looks like he walked off the cover of a men's fashion magazine.
He's a bit short and his hazel eyes are always darting around. He has a small scar on his chin from a fight he got into when he was much younger.
Luciano is the son of a well-known, controversial, infamous, and powerful stock broker, Luciano Donovan Sr.
LD Senior is currently living in the Cayman Islands. In his absence, his son has taken over the family business and made it even more lucrative.
Luciano Jr. has a reputation for being a bit of a playboy and a womanizer. He's also known for being quite aggressive in his business dealings.
LDJ is always draped in the finest of suits (custom-made and VERY expensive). He drives the fanciest of cars and his name inspires equal parts fear and equal parts disgust in the murky world of finance capital.
He's known to be quite charming and persuasive in his dealings. And he's also known to be quite ruthless and unforgiving.
As Luciano Donovan Jr. exits Angie's apartment building, he takes a look at his watch.
"Fuck! I better swing by Paul's place first."
Paul Cho has been LDJ's best friend since they were kids- it's said that they took their 1st potty together (in separate seats, of course).
Paul Cho is the estranged son of one of the biggest hedge fund managers in the city. He's been working hard to make something of himself, but so far he hasn't gotten as far (and as high) as he would like.
He's Luciano's close friend and business partner for as long as he can remember (which isn't very long).
Paul lives in a high-end suburban neighborhood, so unlike the hovel that someone like Angie lives in.
Banal block parties, HOA (Home Owner Association) drama, petty squabbles over fence lines, and such are all common here.
Paul's house is located on the corner of the block. It's a 2-storey structure and painted a bright white. The front lawn is perfectly trimmed and there's a fountain in the front.
Luciano repeatedly honks his car's horn and hollers out, "PAUL! Get your ass in! We're gonna be late for the investors' meeting!"
Paul opens the door, his eyes wild and wide. He's wearing nothing but his boxers. There's wrappers, toilet paper, and other junk strewn about his front lawn.
Must've been a helluva party he threw last night...
LDJ gets out of his car and strides up to his friend, "Jesus fucking Christ, Paul. What the hell happened here?"
Paul is an Asian-American man in his early-20s. His face looks drawn and tired. There are dark circles under his eyes. His hair is a mess, there's vomit on his chest, and his feet are covered in dirt.
He slurs, "I had a few too many drinks, man."
Luciano scoffs and notices something on Paul's nose, "'Drinks' my ass. How much did you fucking snort up last night, huh?!"
Paul mumbles, "I...I dunno, man. My dealer said it was top stuff, man. I had to dive in."
Luciano rolls his eyes, "Whatever. Just...get your clothes on. Gah, you stink!" he holds his nose and shoos his friend away.
Paul goes back inside his house and Luciano walks in and waits impatiently, tapping his foot on the floor and looking at the mess around him.
Clothes (that clearly don't belong to a guy like Paul) are scattered about the living room. There are empty beer cans, crushed wine bottles, and broken glasses all over the floor.
There are also used condoms and dirty needles on the coffee table.
Luciano shakes his head, "Christ."
There's some white powder and a Visa credit card on the kitchen counter.
Paul has what he likes to call a "mild" cocaine habit; he usually snorts some before a major business deal or presentation. It helps him take the edge off.
But when he gets into a party mood, he'll mix it with everything he can get his hands (and feet) on and party till he blacks out.
This is one of those times.
After a few minutes, Paul comes back down. He's wearing a nice suit and tie and looks much more presentable.
He still has that wild look in his brown eyes, though.
LDJ looks him over, "Ready?"
Paul eyes the cocaine on the kitchen counter. With determination in his step, he walks over to it, bends over, and snorts up as much of it as he can.
Luciano grimaces at this sight, but says nothing.
After a moment, he clicks his tongue, "We're...gonna be late, buddy."
Paul waves him off, "It's fine, it's fine."
He grabs the credit card and chops up some new lines of cocaine with it. He proceeds to snort it up in 1 fell swoop.
Luciano impatiently taps his foot on the floor. He checks his watch again.
Paul stumbles over to his friend, an unhinged shit-eating grin on his face, "I'm ready!"
"Hmm."
They get into Luciano's car and head off to the meeting.
Paul is an ambitious guy, but he's kinda reserved. Unlike Luciano, he prefers to work within the confines of the law (when it suits him and those close to him, of course).
Still, he usually goes along with LDJ's plans, be they harebrained schemes or just plain ol' reckless decisions.
They spend close to an hour and 20 minutes on the road to the conference center. Paul incessantly fiddles and fidgets with everything he can get his hands on.
Luciano, for his part, has essentially normalized and rationalized his best friend's erratic and twitchy behavior.
Paul is still high as a kite and he trills his lips and bounces his legs up and down.
Luciano rolls his eyes and sighs, "Paul, will you please stop doing that?! It's getting on my nerves!"
Paul mumbles an apology and sits back in his seat. He tugs on his seatbelt and babbles something to himself.
As they pull into the parking lot of the conference center, Paul is nervously drumming his fingers on his thighs, "Luciano, man. I'm not sure if I wanna do this."
Luciano sighs deeply, "I got some blow in the glove compartment. There's a bathroom in there you can go to."
Paul is taken aback, "Really? But we're already late--"
LDJ reassures him, "It's fine. The investors won't know what hit 'em when we walk in there. I need you at your best, buddy. I don't care how many lines of happy dust you gotta do, OK?"
Paul looks around for a second and nods, "OK. I'll do it. Thank you, Luciano. Y--You're a real friend."
He gets out of the car and jogs off to the bathroom, small poly bag of white powder clenched in his shaking fist.
Luciano waits for a few moments and then gets out of the car. He adjusts his tie and slicks back his hair. He checks himself in the rearview mirror and smirks.
He points finger guns to himself and affirms, "You got this, Luciano. You fucking got this."
Paul Cho enters the bathroom and begins to snort up his lines of mojo. He snorts so hard that he almost inhales his own nose hairs. After a few seconds, he washes his face, adjusts his tie, and exits the bathroom.
You get more miles if you do your piles- Paul knows this very well.
The investors' meeting is at an air-conditioned room in the heart of this bustling conference center. The carpets are lush and the windows are large and tinted. The furniture is clean, sleek, and modern.
The white lights are dim and the chairs are nice and comfortable. There are a few flat-screens hanging from the ceiling, tuned to the financial news and all that boring stuff.
The investors are all a bunch of self-important types seated around a large conference table, each with their own laptop or PDA. They're dressed in their most formal business attire, with expensive watches and cufflinks.
Some of them are accompanied by young, flustered, and obsequious assistants. The assistants are busy typing away on their PDAs and taking notes in shorthand.
The air is filled with the scent of expensive cologne and perfume. There's also the constant and annoying sound of keyboards being tapped on.
Luciano raises his chin high up and pushes the door open. He waltzes in like nothing's the matter. Paul trails close behind.
There are about 15 investors in the room. Most of them are men, but there are a few women sprinkled in.
A man gruffly barks, "Luciano, where in god's name have you been?! Do you have any idea how long we've been waiting for you?! DO YOU?!"
Luciano smirks, "Traffic was crap on the way here, nothing I can do about that. My close friend here, Paul Cho, will be giving the presentation today."
Paul awkwardly walks over to the front of the table and sets his laptop down. He clears his throat, but no sound comes out. His face is drenched in sweat. His knees are trembling.
His eyes survey the room and all the eyes burrowing into him. He gulps and swallows his spit. He's sweating so much that his shirt is practically drenched in sweat. His breath smells bad and his heart is racing.
His eyes are bulging out. He looks like he's seen a ghost.
(Or buried his beak in some blow).
He catches himself and shakily begins, "If you'll uh...turn to page 3 in the presentation err...handouts. We've got a lot to discuss."
Some of the investors are grumbling and complaining under their breaths. Others are staring daggers at the 2 young men, while others are texting on their flip phones.
It's a fairly boring investors' meeting. The investors simply wish to know that LDJ and Paul Cho are wisely multiplying their investments.
And they want to know that the 2 of them will continue to do so.
An older man speak up, "Mr. Donovan, if I may?"
Luciano motions for the guy to speak his mind, "Fire away, Mr. Ken."
Ken clears his throat and takes a quick sip of water, "I think I speak for everyone in the room when I ask: how are these numbers possible? Keep this up and you might find yourself outdoing Madoff in no time."
LDJ waves him off and he turns to Paul and asks, "You got an answer for this, buddy?"
Paul's voice is shaking, "I--I'm sure if you uh...turn to slide--page 33, you'll find our me--me--methods and processes outlined in full detail."
Ken shakes his head and scoffs, "I'm not asking about your methods. I'm asking if what you're promising is even possible."
Luciano warmly smiles, "Ken, have we ever let you down? You knew my dad, you used to go golfing with him, right? You're in good and very capable hands here, OK?"
Ken is somewhat satisfied by that, "Very well. But if this doesn't work out, I will personally see to it that you are both sued to the ground."
Paul stammers, "Y--Yes, Mr. Ken. Our yields and ROIs are guaranteed, you have our word."
Luciano adds, "We won't let you down, OK?"
"Mm."
"OK. So, who else is hungry?" LDJ rubs his hands together, "I'm famished."
A woman in her late-30s raises her hand, "Not just yet, Mr. Donovan. Have you heard the rumors, Luciano?"
Luciano gives her a sideways look, "Rumors? What rumors are you talking about, Tammy?"
Tammy dryly answers, "Rumors about the SEC sending someone to look into your...shall we say...irregularities?"
Gasps and panicked murmurs immediately fill the room. Even some of the investors' assistants are whispering to each other, looking quite worried.
The air in the room has shifted dramatically. Luciano Donovan Jr.'s cool, calm, and collected faade begins to crack.
He looks at Paul, who is sweating bullets from his forehead. He dabs it off with his handkerchief. His eyes are bulging out and his breathing is heavy.
Tammy continues, "You must've heard, right? The SEC sent someone over to check up on you 2 golden boys. It was only a matter of time. Your numbers are...unusual."
Luciano lies, "Uh...yeah, yeah, I heard about that. Yeah, totally. It's a total joke, guys."
A balding man named Mike challenges, "So, you 2 don't have anything to hide, huh?"
LDJ chuckles, "Hide? No, no, no. We're legit businessmen. We're licensed stockbrokers, registered and everything. And we are the future of Flimont City's financial industry. Trust me on this."
"Yeah, right," Mike scoffs.
Paul is sweating and he can't stand still. He's bouncing from 1 foot to the other, fiddling with his tie, and tugging on his collar.
Mike is a little bit annoyed with Luciano's best friend's nervousness, "Paul, you alright? Rough night?"
Paul nods and forces a smile, "Yeah, I'm fine, M--Mike. Ye--yeah, rough night, um...getting this presentation all ready and stuff."
Mike recommends, "OxyContin. Try some. It's wonderful stuff."
"Thanks, Mike," Paul answers, his voice shaking.
Luciano interjects, "Alright, I'm gettin' bored now. Let's eat, shall we?"
Tammy suavely interjects, "Not quite yet, darling. You still haven't reassured us. What are you going to do about the SEC coming into our city?"
Luciano smiles, "Well, there's nothing I can do. I'm just a humble businessman. I'll leave it to my lawyer to deal with. Now, can we please get this over with? I'm fuckin' starvin' here!"
Tammy clicks her tongue, "Come now, it can wait. Let's just say that I have things that I would prefer the SEC to...how shall I frame this, yes, not look into."
Paul Cho nervously laughs and blurts out, "What're you talking about, Tammy? You got something to hide? Haha, hahahaha. Oh, boy, you're a hoot, you really are."
Tammy narrows her eyes at him, "Are you alright, Mr. Cho? You look...shaken. Did you have a few too many drinks last night?"
Paul's face pales and he quickly denies, "No! No, no, no, I'm fine. I'm fine. I was prepping this presentation for all of la--last night."
Tammy smirks, "So you say. Mr. Donovan, how are you planning on handling the SEC? Please, no beating around the bush. We're not 5."
Luciano sighs and leans forward, "Look, if there's something I know, it's how to play the game. You don't think I didn't take precautions, did you?"
He continues, "My dad sat on the advisory board of the SEC years ago. They won't try anything funny with us, I promise."
Ken raises his hand, "We understand how...inefficient the SEC can be, it's just that we want to be reassured that we are in good hands here, Mr. Donovan."
Luciano confidently replies, "Ken, you're in the best fucking hands in the Mid-fucking-West. The best of the Midwest's best, heh."
Ken plainly says, "Very reassuring." His expression is bland and unreadable.
Tammy speaks up, "Luciano, are you sure you don't have anything to hide here? These yields you're reporting are quite unusual. Unusual and impossible, I should say."
Luciano is getting tired of this line of questioning, "What, are you an economist now or something, Tammy? Look, the returns ARE REAL, OK? Realer than those fuckin' implants you got last summer--"
Tammy's jaw hangs open and she gasps, her cheeks reddening, "Why, how dare you?!"
The other investors are watching on with interest. They're eager to see where this heated exchange goes.
Luciano continues, his face slightly flustered, "The returns are 100% legit. Gimme time, and I'll yield you people more goddamn returns than Bernard-motherfucking-Madoff, OK? Just let LDJ work his magic, yeah?"
Ken chimes in, "I'm still not convinced. How are you making these yields? Is there anything illegal or illicit going on here?"
Paul interjects, hastily shaking his head, "No, no, everything we've done and--and are doing is above board, perfectly legal, and in total compliance with existing rules and reg--regulations, Mr. Ken."
He takes a deep breath and nervously gulps, "Look, we're good, OK? We're the best in the city. Trust us, and you won't be sorry."
Mike perches an eyebrow and leans back in his chair, an arm draped over the back of it, "And if the SEC finds out something's up? Then what?"
Luciano rolls his eyes, "Mike, please, let ME worry about that, OK? The SEC ain't shit. We're legit, they got nothing on us because there is NOTHING to have on us."
"Mm."
"Alright, are we good? Can we order lunch now? I'm starved." Luciano is getting increasingly irritated and frustrated by the questions being lobbed at him.
The investors continue to press the 2 young men about their finances and investment strategies. There's a lot of uncertainty and suspicion in the air.
Luciano and Paul do the whole thing of mitigating and deflecting. They're both masters at this game. This is not the 1st time they've been called out by the investors, and it certainly won't be their last.
An hour later...
Luciano breathes a sigh of sweet relief as the investors finally get up and leave the conference room.
He and Paul are left alone in the room. The 2 of them have a lot of talking to do.
Luciano is sitting on a table, his legs crossed and his arms folded.
Paul remains as twitchy and fidgety as ever. Time to bury his beak in some more sugar, perhaps?
He pulls out a chair and wheels it over to his friend. He sits down and takes a deep breath, "Oh, man. That was a close call, Luciano. Too fucking close."
Luciano is nonchalant, "Close call, my ass."
Paul leans in and lowers his voice to a whisper, "So--so, how are these numbers possible, man? I--I did some calculations a week ago, and well, let's just say that my projections were off and turned out to be underestimates. HOW ARE THESE NUMBERS POSSIBLE?!"
LDJ coolly shrugs, "I got a secret weapon."
Paul swallows the lump in his throat, "What's that supposed to mean?"
Luciano chuckles, "I think it's about time you met her."
"'Her'?"
"Mm-hmm. She's my golden goose, laying them golden eggs. And I've been keeping her a secret for a while now. You gotta see what she's been able to do for us. Hell, I think she's kinda retarded, heh heh."
"You got a retarded woman doing...what for us? Luciano, you--you're not making any sense here. What the hell are you talking about?!"
"Meet me at the Prairie Ridge apartment building this evening. You'll see."
"OK."
Paul and Luciano leave the conference room and drive off.
In the car...
The hot sun beats down on the streets and sidewalks. It's a sunny, cloudless day. The air is fresh and crisp. The wind is blowing softly.
There are a few birds flying about and chirping away.
Cars and nothing but cars congest and clog up the badly-planned and neglected roads. People are everywhere, bustling and rushing about. There's a sense of urgency and anxiety in the air.
Paul's leg shakes and he looks like he needs another hit. Luciano incessantly honks his horn and shouts various obscenities at the drivers and pedestrians blocking his way.
Like that's gonna get this traffic (or people) moving any faster.
There's a telephone in Luciano's car and it begins to ring.
He picks up, "Hello?"
"Luciano, it's me." The voice is soft, accented, and feminine.
Luciano tightly smiles and shoots Paul a look, "Oh, hey...Sophie. How you doing, my princess? You get the bouquet I sent you last night? They're called poinsettias."
"Yes, thank you, honey, I know what a poinsettia is. They're beautiful. Listen, when are you coming to see me?"
"Ah, soon. I got some stuff to take care of first. You know how it is. Work, work, and more work."
Sophie is the daughter of French-Belgian royalty. She and Luciano met at some kind of Wall Street seminar a few years back. Ever since, they've been sleeping together on and off, as their busy schedules and conflicting agendas allow.
Sophie is an attractive blonde woman in her early-20s. She's tall, thin, and has a pretty face. She almost always dresses to the nines.
Paul leans in and silently mouths, "Oh, shit!"
Luciano is currently in-between girlfriends- there's the poor and deprived Angie and then there's Sophie, who's loaded and comes from European royalty.
It's an awkward and uncomfortable situation, but one that Luciano seems to take certain pleasure in. He's always fancied himself a bit of a ladies' man, much like his dad was.
Sophie has been wanting to get serious with Luciano for some time, and he has been promising her that he'll pop the question soon.
He doesn't have any intention of following through, of course, but he feels that it's nice to string her along, and he can't deny the fact that Sophie is quite a good lay.
"Luciano, listen, when can we meet? I just want to spend some time with you, baby. I've gone ahead and cleared my schedule for the rest of the week. All for you, baby."
Luciano is trying his best to keep his cool, "OK, OK. I uh...I got things, baby, real important things to take care of."
Luciano screws Angie only because he's after the land her crappy apartment is sitting on.
It's an easy task to seduce her and promise her a life of abundance, but the sex is pretty lousy. Regardless, he keeps doing it because he knows how valuable that land is.
He knows it's in a prime location and it can easily be worth millions of dollars once it's been evicted of all its human trash. He's not too bothered on where they'll go.
Why would someone like him be?
Sophie straightforwardly asks, "Are you seeing other women, Luciano? Are you, as they say...fucking them?"
Luciano can't help but smirk, "Baby, what're you talkin' about? I only got eyes for you. I'm not a dog. I--I got a heart, y'know...and it beats for you, my blue-blooded princess."
Sophie giggles, "Luciano, stop teasing me. Come on, tell me the truth. Am I the only woman you're seeing right now?"
Luciano firmly answers, "YES. You're the only one I'm currently sticking my big dick into, baby."
Paul raises an eyebrow. Luciano winks at him.
Sophie is a little upset by this, "I want to meet you. Tonight. Please, Luciano, please?"
Luciano sighs and concedes, "OK, fine. But, I'm gonna be late. You just gotta deal with it, alright?"
Sophie makes a kissing sound, "I love you, baby."
"Yeah, yeah. Bye."
The call ends and Luciano puts the telephone back in its cradle. He turns to Paul and gives him a once over, "Hey, buddy. You're doing a great job so far."
"You mean the bullshit we fed those investors?"
"It's NOT bullshit!" Luciano frustratingly retorts.
"So, who's this retarded chick you got working for you, huh? Who is she? Why didn't you tell me about her before? And why haven't I met her yet?"
Luciano smiles and shrugs, "Ehh, I had to make sure she wasn't trying to pull a fast one on me, y'know."
"Hmph. How'd you meet her, where'd you find her, and why hasn't she worked for us before this, huh? What's the story with her? I HAVE TO KNOW!"
"Jesus, Paul, sheesh. Easy. I've been helping her out, and she helps me in return."
"Helping her how?"
"Mauve used to live in some nasty, disgusting-ass, rat-infested dump."
"OK, that describes half this fucking city. What's your point?" Paul has no idea where this is going. He just wants to know why his friend is dragging things out.
Luciano takes a sharp right turn and eases his foot off the gas, "So, I was in this diner 1 day. Fuckin' Angie dragged me there cause they make good sloppy joes and LDJ can't say no to a good-ass sloppy joe after a sloppy blowjob, heh heh."
Luciano met this Mauve woman in a diner. She was sitting at a booth, all alone and hunched over, typing away on her laptop. She was wearing a ratty old jacket and some tattered jeans.
For some reason, there was no food or drink around her. Not even an empty glass. Her entire table was occupied by papers full of hastily scribbled notes.
She looked like a homeless woman. Her clothes were dirty and covered in patches. Her brown hair was a scraggy mess and she looked like she hadn't slept or showered in days.
Her skin was deathly pale, her blue eyes were wild and wide, and her fingers were stained with what appeared to look like dried blood. It was a miracle she hadn't gotten arrested for anything.
She was hunched over, typing away on her broken laptop and mumbling to herself, "I can do it, I can do it. The--the numbers. I understand. I understand. The numbers, I know what they mean. It's true. It's true. Yes, it is. It's true, it's true. It's true."
Luciano had been eating his sloppy joe, but was now thoroughly creeped out by this weird woman. Angie had gone to the bathroom.
"So, I turned around and peeked over the lady's shoulder and saw that she was analyzing the numbers and the charts and the graphs and the financials and the market fluctuations and the returns and the...everything."
He exclaims, "I was amazed! Who the fuck was this crazy chick? So, I put down my sloppy joe and started speaking to her..."
She introduced herself as Mauve Lilac. A very...unusual name, but LDJ was more interested in what she was up to than her name.
After shooing poor Angie away, they spoke for a few hours. They talked about finance, economics, and the markets. They talked about stocks and bonds and other stuff.
"I realized that she was a genius. A FUCKING GENIUS, man! It's like she has this...this way with numbers. She even told me that the numbers speak to her. They talk to her in her dreams and shit."
He wildly gesticulates, "She sees them and understands them and everything. It was insane, man. Insane! She's a freak, but a freakin' genius. A freaking genius that I could use."
Paul remains skeptical, "Hmm. And she's still homeless, probably drugged-out, right? Retarded, most likely. No way SHE could help us."
Luciano scoffs, "Maybe she is, dumbass. What difference does it make? Point is, she's got this unusual fixation with numbers and shit."
"So, that's how OUR returns are so good, huh? What role does...Mauve Lilac play in all of this?" Paul has his doubts, but he's curious.
"She helps me out, and I help her out. That's all you gotta know."
"And why does she do this for us? It's certainly not out of the goodness of her heart."
Luciano chuckles, "You shoulda seen her old place, man. A fuckin' nightmare. I put her up at an apartment in the Prairie Ridge. In return, she lays them golden eggs that are gonna make us stinkin' filthy rich in no time!"
Paul grits his teeth, "But, HOW is she doing it, Luciano?! These numbers are impossible unless--"
"Unless she's a mind-readin' math genius," LDJ smugly interjects.
Paul's eyes are bugging out, "I'm being serious, man! I've been breaking my fucking head over these numbers, day in and day out! And I can't do jack-shit with it!"
He slams the dashboard, "How'd a fucking retarded chick figure out how to do what she does?! How can she? It's impossible!"
Luciano looks out the window and coolly remarks, "It's all in the numbers, Paul. That's what my golden goose tells me. It's all in the numbers. Life, sex, money, success, etcetera. It's all in the numbers."
"Fuck!" Paul hisses through his clenched teeth.
Luciano glances at him, "I see you're still high as a kite, my friend. What's up? Need another pick-me-up, huh?"
"No, but I'm gonna scrutinize this chick tonight. And if I find out she's playing us, I'll fucking kill her myself." Paul's tone is unhinged and maniacal.
Luciano shakes his head, "Whatever you say, buddy. Just chill out, will ya?"
"No. Not until I see this...golden goose you've got in--in one of the most premium apartments in this city. Jesus, Luciano, what were you thinking when you put her up THERE?!"
Luciano lightly chuckles and brings the car to a stop due to yet another traffic jam.
Paul is fiddling with his PDA and typing away. He looks like he's trying to figure something out. He mumbles, "So, what do we do about this SEC problem?"
Luciano smiles and scratches his nose, "If it becomes a problem, we deal with it. You know anything about any SEC investigations into us?"
Paul unsurely replies, "I can ask some of my contacts in the Federal Government, but I don't wanna ruffle any feathers. M--Maybe it's a routine investigation. Nothing serious."
"Mmm. Maybe."
45 minutes later...
Luciano drops Paul off back at his place.
Before he exits, he says, "Right. This evening. And you best bet that I'm bringing my A-game in scrutinizing this crazy chick, OK?"
"Yeah, yeah. Now, I'm off to get some fucking sleep. Last night was...cuh-ray-zee, haha!"
Paul cuts in, "You're not fucking this Mauve chick, are you?"
LDJ replies, "Jesus. I already got 2 chicks bouncing on my dick, you think I need a 3rd one? I mean, hey I wouldn't mind it, but something about Mauve just...strikes me the wrong way. I--I really dunno how to describe it. You might see it for yourself tonight."
Paul nods, "Pfft, whatever. Just make sure that what we're doing is above board, OK?"
"'Course!" Luciano starts the car and drives off.
Paul immediately makes his way to his bathroom and locks the door. Time for another bump of the sweet stuff.
He looks at himself in the mirror and begins to snort up more coke. He snorts and snorts until he passes out on the floor.
Lovely.
What Luciano didn't know was that Mauve Lilac was no ordinary woman. She is a Kindred of Clan Malkavian. Ever since her Embrace, numbers and things related to numbers have come alive for her, in a manner of speaking.
In fact, she has the ability to perceive and interpret them in ways that not even the smartest and most intelligent minds of the world could ever fathom.
As such, she's a boon to Luciano's financial interests. And that's why he's not about to let her go. He doesn't have any qualms about using her- she's a pawn in his great game of money-making.
LDJ knows that she sleeps the day away and has certain quirks, but he's too stupid (and greedy) to realize that she is actually a vampire.
The Kindred don't need to eat regular food, which is why a lotta expensive food is currently rotting away in Mauve's very expensive fridge.
She was desperate, in a hard place, and poor as dirt. So, when Luciano offered her a place to stay (rent free!), you bet your ass she pounced on it like a wild cat.
Mauve is in a terrible, hopeless, and forlorn situation. Originally from Kansas City, she was once a top-tier reporter.
She had a good job, good friends, and a decent home. Everything was alright for her.
But, 1 night, as she was heading home from work, a woman jumped her. She bit Mauve and began to drain her of her life force.
Ms. Lilac felt her life being sucked out of her, and the world started to fade away.
A week later, she wakes up in the basement of a house, covered in blood, burn marks, scratches, and a pair of torn, bloody clothes.
Her memories are fuzzy and she doesn't know what happened or what exactly transpired that night and the nights after. She has some vague recollections and flashbacks of the incident, but nothing concrete.
That was a decade ago, somewhere in the 1990s. Ever since then, she's been on the run. She left Kansas City before the Kindred Sheriff and their Hounds and Scourges could catch up to her.
She's lived her Unlife in the shadows, the deep, dark, and forsaken parts of any large city.
Mauve is paranoid and always thinks that someone's out to get her for what she doesn't remember or recall doing in that house she woke up in. She was surrounded by dead bodies and piles of ash as she bolted from the scene.
She's never looked back since.
Now, she's sleeping the day away in one of Flimont City's most sought-after luxury apartment complexes.
She's been in this apartment for almost 2 months now. She's kept her head low and hasn't had any contact with the outside world.
This is an actual Haven, so unlike the hovels, dives, car trunks, tents, and derelict shacks that Mauve is used to living in. It's safe, it's spacious, and it's relatively secure.
Luciano takes care of the absurdly-high rent, and Mauve does her part by helping him in his endeavors.
She has no other choice but to play along and lay those golden eggs when asked to do so. A small, tiny part of her tells her that what she's doing is wrong and will destroy countless lives in the process.
There are numerous other voices swimming through her Malkavian mind, all telling her the same thing (or something else entirely). But, they're mostly drowned out by the basic desire and need to survive.
To survive, Mauve Lilac does what she does best and what she is good at: analyzing, interpreting, and finding the patterns and trends. The numbers jump out at her and "speak" to her in her dreams.
And her insights, findings, and revelations have proven to be useful and extremely beneficial.
But, something tells Mauve that her presence here will be discovered eventually. LDJ might be a short-sighted, greedy, and rapacious fool, but Paul might be able to pick up on something.
He is smarter than his friend and knows that her being here isn't quite right.
Mauve is still afraid and nervous about the night that Luciano Donovan Jr. dropped the keys to her current Haven in her open hand. He blindfolded her and drove her here, and that was all the info she got.
She's a scared and terrified woman, a scared and terrified woman that has lived through a decade of trauma and hardship.
She knows the streets and the people that inhabit them all too well. Her fellow Malks have tried their best to look after her, but ever since her Embrace, she's had a hard time getting along with people.
Night after night, she slogs away, hunched over, typing away on her slow laptop, and keenly staring at the numbers. They jump out at her and speak to her in a language that only she can understand.
She can decipher their secrets and can see their hidden truths.
In time, the sun begins its descent. It sinks beneath the buildings and ushers in the darkness.
The Kindred prepare to awaken from the long and restful sleep of the day. They're ready to embrace the night and do what they do best. They roam the streets, stalk the alleys, and slink the shadows. Their prey is usually in sight, but they have to be careful.
Markham tosses and turns in his bed, restlessly fighting off a memory from another time. The sounds of a guitar being riffed and some monstrous screams are all that he can hear.
And the memory fades away as quickly as it had come.
"Another one of those goddamn flashbacks," he bitterly whispers as he groans and pulls himself up.
In his bedroom, the thick jade curtains are drawn. The room is pitch-black, except for the dim glow of the moon and the stars.
It's a fairly passable hotel room in the Sheriton Grand on the 14th floor. The white tiling is impeccable and spotless. The beds are fluffy and the TV is pretty damn huge.
There's a nice bathroom and an even nicer minibar (not like Markham will have need for the latter). All is in order.
Markham stretches and gets up. He throws on his soft robe and pulls the curtains open and looks down on the city below. An otherwise decent sight is tainted by the sea of cars clogging up the streets and roads.
"What is with the traffic in this goddamn city..."
A few minutes later...
He's all showered and well-dressed in a black suit and white shirt. His tie is navy blue and has an emerald pattern on it.
The Beast within him stirs. It demands its dose of sanguine sustenance. The good news is he won't have to go far to find a suitable neck to bite into.
The floor below him is undergoing renovations and it's empty and deserted. Perfect.
The elevator dings and the doors open. Markham steps in, pushes the button, and waits for the doors to close.
He stands there, looking at himself in the reflection of the polished steel doors.
Pale, hollow, and gaunt. A ghost of a man, but one with a terrible thirst that will not be denied for long. He smirks at the reflection. There's a little bit of bloodlust in his dead eyes.
The Baali disembarks and makes his way through the empty and unfinished hallways. He's looking for anyone who's lurking around and just waiting to be bitten into.
His nostrils flare as he catches a whiff of the familiar scent of...booze. His sharp eyes are alert and focused. His fangs protrude out of their sockets and his claws pop out.
He follows the scent, and the trail leads him to a room filled with workers who are either passed out or about to do so.
There's a woman swaying about, cheap cigarette in her hand. She's wearing some stained orange overalls. She's singing some song that's stuck in her head and probably hasn't been on the radio for quite a while.
Looks like she'll have to do for tonight. The area is dimly-lit and the other mortals are unaware of the near-invisible vampire who utilizes his Obfuscate Discipline to silently approach the woman.
The Baali moves around the room, his eyes fixed on her neck. Once within range, he swiftly yanks her to a corner, subdues her, and viciously bites into her jugular.
"Gyagh!" she flails about, her legs kicking. She tries to scream, but only blood and spit comes out.
The Baali begins to feed on her, slowly draining her of her life force. However, he knows better than to kill her.
Once Markham has done taking his fill, he releases his prey. He licks her neck and gently lets her down on the floor.
The Baali leaves the room. The workers are still passed out, oblivious to the woman's labored and hitched breathing.
Markham is pleased by his meal, but there's still no peace or respite for him. As he's going back to his room, another flashback strikes him.
He rubs the back of his head, recalling the time it was smacked by a shovel wielded by a man in a thick, green ski mask. Markham winces and tries to banish that grim memory.
With the Beast appeased, Markham can now begin his work in peace- investigating Luciano Donovan Jr. and Paul Cho. It's not all glamorous like in the TV shows.
There's lots of paperwork to go through, lots of Internet research, and LOTS of phone calls to make.
Markham pulls out his bulky Toshiba laptop and places it on the desk. He plugs in the charging cord and turns it on. It boots up. Markham opens up a web browser and begins his search.
His typing speed is abysmally slow, but he does what he can. This is something that Jamie constantly teases him about, but Markham is trying his best to adapt to the new century.
Despite repeated help from Jamie, he doesn't really get how this fancy-schmancy portable computer works.
And, as such, Markham will spend the remainder of his night dedicated to digging up everything he can find on LDJ and Paul Cho.
A few miles away, at the Prairie Ridge...
Mauve awakens from her day-sleep. She looks to be in her late-20s, her brown hair is a scraggly mess and her gaunt face is deathly pale.
She looks around her very spacious Haven. She can't help but feel a little bit intimidated and overwhelmed by all this luxury.
She's afraid and worried about the consequences if she is ever exposed as a Kindred. The Sheriff wouldn't like that very much, but that's nothing new.
Mauve sighs, gets up, and stretches. She yawns and scratches her itchy body. She's a little bit hungry, but not for any of the food in her fridge.
For now, she suppresses her nagging Hunger and takes a quick soak in the bathtub. The bathroom is like something out of a luxury hotel. It's massive, with a glassed-in shower, a large bathtub, a posh toilet, and a bidet.
The toilet paper, of course, remains unused.
Mauve feels a bit self-conscious and embarrassed being here, but she doesn't want to ruin this lavish space or run afoul of her "boss" (for lack of any better terms).
Luciano does make it pretty clear that Mauve works FOR him (or UNDER him), not BESIDES him or WITH him.
"That's fine with me," Mauve quietly mutters to herself, "I've got--got nowhere else to go."
Mauve looks at her ragged, stained, and tattered clothes- it's a torn t-shirt and some short shorts that have completely been leached of their color.
She doesn't look too great, but her looks are something she stopped caring about years and years ago. She's practically frozen in her late-20s.
She looks in the mirror. Her blue eyes are tired and lifeless, her skin is deathly pale, and her cheekbones are sharp and prominent. She looks like a clichd vampire (if one knew how to look for one and the telltale signs).
She looks at her toothbrush. It's an electric toothbrush. Being a walking corpse is certainly no excuse to not brush one's teeth, right?
She looks at her hair and combs her fingers through her scraggly mess. She could really use a makeover, a massage, and a full-body wax.
Mauve makes it a point to ask her benefactor if he'll be able to take her to a nice salon sometime this week.
But, she's been hesitant about getting too involved with LDJ. He's already done a lot for her and she doesn't wanna lose out on this safe, clean, and nice Haven.
She knows the price she has to pay. Mauve isn't stupid, and she's seen what this fast, reckless, and ultimately meaningless lifestyle can do to people. She's seen it firsthand, and it's a terrible thing.
After she bathes, she puts on something a little more presentable- a beige button-down shirt, tapered black pants, and a pair of white flats.
She accessorizes with a few rings and a handmade bracelet that was given to her by a homeless teenager in this city as a symbol of friendship and appreciation.
She looks at the bracelet worriedly, wondering to herself if that poor kid is still alive, and if she'll ever see her again.
Mauve checks herself in the mirror. She's still the same old Mauve Lilac. The same old Mauve that's been through the wringer and back.
She goes to the room designated as her office and plops down on the comfy chair. She picks up her laptop and fires it up.
Time to get to work. She has to help facilitate incredible returns and yields for LDJ, Paul Cho, and the rest of these short-sighted, greedy, money-hungry, and ignorant fiends.
Her mind is filled with numbers, and she knows that her unusually unique insights and revelations are priceless.
Hours later...
Some obnoxious banging on the door brings the Malkavian back to reality.
Mauve gets up, checks herself a few times, takes a deep breath (not that she needs to), and goes to open the door.
Standing there are none other than Luciano and Paul. Both of them are wearing casual suits and fancy shades.
Luciano greets her with a smile, "Wazzup, my biatch!"
Paul's voice is dry and hoarse, "Hi."
Mauve looks them over and wonders why they're here, "Oh, uh...hi, Luciano. I wasn't expecting you tonight."
Luciano moves her aside and welcomes himself in, "Mm-hmm. That's the way it's supposed to be, sweetie. I pay your rent around here, don'tcha ever forget that now, OK?"
Mauve awkwardly nods and sheepishly follows the young man inside.
Paul shuts the door and callously asks, "So, uh, you're the retarded chick making us rich, huh? Yeah, checks out."
Luciano snickers and looks around Mauve's Haven, head tilted up, hands on his hips. He's acting like a real estate agent or something.
"Yep, that's her, Paul," he remarks, "Our very own retarded chick. Or as I like to call her: the golden goose."
Mauve, for her part, puts up with all these nasty insults and demeaning labels because she knows that LDJ is the only one keeping her afloat.
She plays along with a compressed smile, "Yeah, that's me."
The Malk extends her cold hand to Paul, "M--Mauve Lilac. I've heard a lot about you, Mr. Cho."
Paul looks at the extended hand, then at Luciano, and then at the hand again. He refuses to shake it and throws himself on the nearby couch.
He nonchalantly replies, "Explain your process. Tell ME how you're doing it."
"I--I can't tell you, Mr. Cho. I mean, I--I don't think you'd believe me if I told you."
Paul shoots her a stern look, "Try me, honey."
Luciano waltzes over to the kitchen and hollers out, "Hey, Mauve! How come you didn't eat that salami I got ya? You a fuckin' vegan or something?"
"I--I didn't want it, Luciano. Err...I mean, Mr. Donovan."
"What the fuck, Mauve?" Luciano is in disbelief, "That was expensive, y'know. Expensive, yeah? It's fucking salami! Everyone loves fucking salami. And I can't believe you turned it down!"
"Well, I didn't, um, I didn't want it," Mauve simply explains, "I'm kinda on a diet."
(Yeah, an eternal diet of blood, the fresher and redder the better).
Luciano and Paul look at each other and shrug. The former then looks back at Mauve, "Yeah, yeah. Sure, whatever. Hey, I got some other shit I want you to look at, Mauve."
Paul raises his hand in objection, "HEY! Not until I'm done scrutinizing this chick. It can wait, Luciano."
Luciano sighs and continues loitering around Mauve's Haven.
Paul picks up from where he left off, "Your methods, your process, your technique. Explain them to me in plain English, please." His expression is hard, stern, and unyielding.
It's clear he means business. He wants to know how his golden goose is laying those golden eggs.
Mauve is trying her best to sound professional and normal (well, as normal as a Malkavian can get), "W--well, um, Mr. Cho. As I've already told Mr. Donovan, my relationship with numbers is somewhat...unique."
She makes air quotes around that last word. "Unique," she quietly mutters to herself. She takes a deep breath and continues, "I have this gift where I can see patterns and trends."
Paul scoffs, "I have it too, sweetie."
"N--No, it's not like that, Mr. Cho. No offense, but the numbers...they speak to me, they tell me what's going on with the market and--and other things." Mauve is getting nervous.
She doesn't like being interrogated like this. Her dead heart acts up and her hands begin to tremble. She feels clammy and anxious, but she knows that these are all just sensations brought about by her approaching Hunger.
She does her best to explain everything to Paul, without breaching the Masquerade or hinting at her true nature.
She knows how close to the edge she already is. The only thing standing between her and the oblivion of Final Death is a young, reckless, and greedy stockbroker. If it wasn't for him, she'd be a pile of ash somewhere in the depths of the sewers.
Forgotten and blown away by the wind, her memories and her story buried beneath layers and layers of filth. An ignominious end for a Kindred, no doubt.
"So, you're basically an idiot savant," Paul bluntly concludes, "A retarded math genius. Fuck me to la la land. Where do you find these people, Luciano?"
Luciano is busy giggling at cartoons on Mauve's large TV. He replies without even looking back, "They find me, buddy."
He turns to Mauve and asks, "Hey, Mauve. What the hell are these numbers saying now? Huh?"
Mauve gathers her composure as best she can, but it's getting harder with her inner Beast threatening to burst forth at any moment.
It wants to lunge at 1 or both of these mortals, rip out their throats, and devour them whole. But, Mauve isn't like that. She can't let her Beast control her or dictate what she does.
That would be a disaster. A terrible catastrophe that she's not quite ready to face yet.
She silently repeats an old Kindred adage to herself, "A Beast I am, lest a Beast I become. A Beast I am, lest a Beast I become. A Beast I am, lest a Beast I become."
Luciano impatiently glowers at her, "Hey, I asked you a question. What do the numeros got in store for us tonight, huh?"
Mauve suddenly straightens her back and stands at attention. Her eyes are wide open, her mind is clear, and the numbers appear in her head. She sees them, and she knows what they mean.
They speak to her in a synthetic and almost robotic tone, "The market will rise by 1.4%, stocks will plummet by 5.6%, and bonds will see a slight increase of 0.3%."
Mauve rattles off what she hears and quickly adds, "I need to take a quick walk to clear my head. I promise to come right back."
Luciano chuckles, "Heh, of course you gotta come back. You got nowhere else to go, hahaahaha!" He seems to take delight in lording over the poor woman.
But, then again, he's the kind of guy who's never had anyone (or anything) tell him "no." It's all fun and games for him. Always has been. Always will be.
Paul stands at the door and growls at her, "Watch it, Mauve. My best friend is not some kind of fucking meal ticket for bright dimwits like you, OK? Get that into your head." He's being threatening, needlessly so.
He's not joking around. And he means every single word he just said. He's loyal to Luciano 100%. Whether such loyalty is reciprocated, however, remains to be seen.
Mauve quietly nods and exits her Haven. She lives on the 3rd floor, so she walks down a few flights of stairs. It kinda helps keep her fit (or about as "fit" as a dead-not-dead person can be).
The outside of this luxury apartment complex does leave much to be desired. There's an unruly mess of a parking lot, some graffiti-covered walls, and a few homeless people shuffling about in the shadows.
It's like something out of someone's dystopian fever dreams. Mauve can even spot a small homeless encampment from where's she's standing. It's so sad and...intense.
Up until a few months ago, she was likely counted amongst the already undercounted homeless population of Flimont City. She had no proper Haven, no job, no money, and no future.
Now, she lives in a luxurious apartment on the upper-class side of town. All thanks to one Luciano Donovan Jr. who does things not out of the goodness of his heart, but out of short-sighted greed and selfishness.
She's not silly, she knows that, and she also knows that she has to play along if she wants to survive.
Her Beast directs her, impels her to just lunge forward and bite into the nearest person's neck and drain them of their life force. Her stomach grumbles and her throat becomes parched.
She's been denying herself this basic and primal need, but she knows she can't do it for long.
She gathers her composure and walks to a darker corner of a nearby store. It's far away from everyone else and gives her the privacy she needs. A good place for Mauve to bite into someone.
Mauve's phone begins to ring. She grunts and answers it. On the other end, there's a garbled voice mumbling something unintelligible through static.
Mauve can make out a few words, "Mad-el-Steph-son. Join u-s. Ass-imil-ate. E-nd is ni-gh." Then, there's more static and a few more incoherent words before the line goes dead.
Mauve looks at her phone screen. She doesn't know what to make of that. It's not the 1st time she's receiving such a cryptic and bizarre call, though.
She figures it's just some random prank caller with far too much time on their grubby hands. There's nothing to it. Probably.
Maybe. She hopes so.
Her mind is a mess, it's been like that ever since her violent Embrace. Sometimes, she even wonders if she's really awake or dreaming.
For now, she focuses on the more immediate problem- her eternal Hunger. Her fangs are already popping out and her eyes are burning with primal need.
The Beast is getting impatient. She has to feed. It's urgent, it's necessary, and it's unavoidable.
She sees a scantily-clad woman making blowjob gestures to a man in a black SUV. He looks her over and drives off after hearing her prices. Mauve doesn't care, and she doesn't want to go too far out of her way to find a victim.
The sex worker will have to do.
The Kindred lures the woman over with a "psst." She turns around and sees Mauve lurking in the shadows.
The woman is wearing a fishnet top that barely covers her body and shows off her cleavage. Her black high heels click against the pavement as she makes her way over to the source of this noise.
Mauve yanks the unfortunate prostitute to the dark corner and subdues her. She hungrily bites into her neck and begins to feed. The Beast is pleased. Finally, it can sate its terrible and never-ending Hunger.
A few moments later...
Mauve comes out of the alley, wiping away the blood from her lips.
The sex worker is still alive, her breathing labored and hitched. She's passed out on the ground, almost in a state of quasi-bliss.
There were bite marks on her neck, but they have been successfully licked away and healed. There's no evidence to suggest that anyone was here, besides the still-breathing woman.
Mauve leaves her in peace and returns to her Haven. Luciano and Paul are still there, watching cartoons and eating some pizza that the latter already ordered before coming here.
It's a large Pepperoni Pizza from Peppy's Pizzeria. They're sitting around Mauve's kitchen table, talking about business.
Paul is busy reading Mauve's laptop and looking through her spreadsheets and financial analysis.
Luciano greets her as she comes in, "Yo, Mauve! Get in here! We got some fresh pies from Peppy's!"
For obvious reasons, Mauve declines in an overly polite and apologetic manner, "Oh, um, sorry, Mr. Donovan, but I'm OK." She repeats this line, just for good measure.
Luciano chuckles, "Hmph, whatever."
Paul frowns at her, "You look like a skinny supermodel on one of those magazines. Do you even fucking eat, Mauve?" His tone is accusatory and aggressive.
Mauve shrugs and sits down on a chair opposite him, "Oh, well, I--I don't really eat much, Mr. Cho."
Paul sighs and helps himself to another slice of pizza, "So, uh, let me get this straight: the numbers just sorta pop up in your head and tell you what to do, huh? That's fucking wild, man."
Mauve wordlessly nods and wistfully watches on as these 2 guys enjoy something as simple as pizza. A part of her longs for mortal food and drink, but another part reminds her that she cannot have such things ever again.
That's just not who or what she is anymore. She's an immortal bloodsucker that doesn't quite belong in a world that has been set up in such a way.
Mauve watches on, forces herself to grin at LDJ's gross jokes, and generally maintains an aura of agreeability and compliance.
She doesn't want to run afoul of the only person who can help her avoid an untimely and undignified Final Death.
She can put up with these insults, jibes, and cruel remarks if it means keeping her Haven (and the security that comes with having a roof over one's head).
That part is especially important for beings who sleep the entirety of the day away and can NEVER EVER experience the rays of the sun on their skin.
Such is the Unlife of a vampire. Mauve wishes it was different, but this is the reality of her existence. And it's a harsh and unforgiving one.
The world she finds herself in is a harsh and unforgiving world- a world of darkness.
Paul is going through Mauve's spreadsheets and financial analysis.
After he's done combing over her unorganized mess of a laptop, Paul gives it back to her and gets up, "Alright, I'm satisfied. NOT fully, but you pass the smell test and Luciano over here sees something in you."
He looks at his watch, "Right, I've got some stuff to take care of. A--An appointment. Luciano, let's roll."
Luciano, his mouth full of pizza, protests, "Hey, your dealer can fuckin' wait, Paul."
Mauve gasps at this, Paul shoots her a look that is half-flustered, half-menacing.
Luciano takes a sip of his soda and puts on an elaborate sportscaster voice, "Paul Cho here looooooves to bury his beak in some blow."
Paul grits his teeth, cheeks reddening in embarrassment, "Shut the fuck up, Luciano!"
LDJ's not finished, "That's right, folks! Paul here likes to do a line. And he does it a looot, folks."
Paul's breathing becomes erratic and he looks like he's about to pop a vein in his forehead. He's mad, real mad, and he looks like he's gonna go ballistic.
But, before he can say or do anything, Luciano wraps his arm around Mauve, "Awww, relax, Paul. She ain't gonna tell anybody. Right, Ms. Lilac? You know what'll happen if you snitch on my best buddy here, right?"
Paul grins, "Eviction. Back to being a loser and a nobody." He cackles at her, "I guess you better keep quiet then, huh?"
Mauve nods and mumbles, "Yeah, sure. I won't say anything." She looks down at her hands and keeps them busy by fiddling with her rings.
Luciano grabs a slice of pizza and brings it up to Mauve's face, "Wanna take a bite, Mauve?"
"No thanks, Mr. Donovan." Mauve doesn't like where this is going.
Luciano's tone is taunting, "Aw, come on, it's the best fucking pizza you'll ever have."
Mauve's tone gets a little more firm, "I'm OK, th--thanks."
Luciano shakes his head, "Pssssh, fine. Are you always such a party pooper? It's just a goddamn piece of pizza, y'know."
Paul steps in and grabs the pizza from his friend's hands, "Alright, that's enough, Luciano. Let's go. C'mon, I--I need my...stuff, man!!"
Luciano softly chuckles, "You go on ahead. Mauve and I just got some things to go over. I'll meet you there."
Paul shoots him a look, "Alright, fine, but don't take too long, OK? I don't like going to these junkie-infested places by myself, man." He leaves without even saying goodbye to Mauve.
As soon as Paul is out the door, LDJ looks at Mauve and sighs, "Heh. Paul's a good guy. We knew each other since we were in diapers."
"I see," Mauve awkwardly replies. She's unsure of what she's supposed to say or do right now.
"Anyway," Luciano goes over to the fridge, "What else ya got for me, Mauve?"
"Nothing. Make sure to uh...buy a few shares in Vespire Inc. Those are gonna go through the roof by tomorrow evening." Mauve thinks she sounds way too formal.
Luciano chuckles, "Heh. I hope you're right about this one. I mean, you've been on a roll recently, and it's been...perfect. No computer can even come close to doing the freaky shit that you can, Mauve."
The Seer looks at him with a faint smile. It's getting harder to stay positive and happy. She's tired, mentally drained, and has to deal with the numerous voices constantly rattling off inside her troubled mind.
She knows how important her role is, but she also knows that this situation is precarious. It's only a matter of time before someone gets wise to what she's doing and exposes her.
That someone could very well be Markham, who Mauve is yet to come into contact with. But, there's a twist to all this that is bound to make things...interesting in the coming nights.
Anyways, Mauve musters up a wide smile and looks at her benefactor with a big and somewhat genuine grin, "Thanks, LDJ."
Luciano smirks, "Right. I'm gonna head out. Be good, Mauve."
He turns around and tells her, "I'm off to get my dick sucked by a princess. Ciao!"
Mauve forces a chuckle at the lame statement and waves him off. He leaves the Haven without saying a single word to her. Just like Paul, he never even bothers with a proper goodbye.
It's like people like him are above all that.
Paul is fidgeting and getting all twitchy in the car, he's rapidly blinking, and he keeps looking at his phone. He's way too hyped up.
Luciano enters the car and starts it, "OK, your dealer still in that nasty, infested dump? Fuck, I hate that place, man." He rubs his face and grumbles, "Seriously. Fucking bums, all of 'em. Fucking losers."
Paul seems a little too distracted, "Oh, heh...yeah, he still hangs out there."
"Hmph."
Many minutes later...
The duo stop at a neighborhood that is quite simply derelict and depressing. The houses are broken and abandoned. Windows are cracked and shattered, and paint is peeling.
The very epitome of urban decay. They're filled with broken folk and empty husks. Luciano makes his way to a decrepit house, pulls up in front of it, and gets out.
Paul sneers at a few old guys in army jackets passing a needle between them, "Fuck me. This is the kind of shit I'm talking about, man."
He closes his eyes and rubs his face, "It's fucking degrading." He opens his eyes and stares at LDJ, "I hate junkies."
LDJ scoffs, "You're a junkie, too. It's just that you wear a suit and are worth millions of bucks, so no one notices." He goes to the front door and knocks a few times.
He waits, his face contorted in disgust. Paul doesn't like it here. He feels ashamed. He looks at the old men nearby.
1 of them passes out and begins frothing at the mouth. Another one starts crushing some white tablet and snorts it all up his nose.
The last guy seems to be on a phone call, yelling at someone about something related to the VA (Veterans Affairs).
Another few moments of waiting, a lanky woman opens up the door. She's wearing a dirty red-brown button-down shirt and black slacks. Her cheeks look like they're hollowed out and her eyes are sunken in.
She's gaunt and extremely pale, "Uh, hi, Paul. And...Paul's friend. What a pleasant surprise."
She ushers the duo in, "Come on, come in, guys."
The inside of the house is just as tragic as the outside. There are people of all ages, sexual orientations, skin tones, and genders sprawled all over the place. The place is filled with a putrid and unmistakable smell.
Marijuana, heroin, MDMA, crack, ecstasy, and meth and whatever else. All kinds of drugs. There are several people here either high or getting there.
A burly man is hunched over a Bunsen burner, spoon in trembling hand. There's a small glass tube containing a green liquid. He's about to drop the liquid into the glass vial.
Another man is emptying contents of an orange pill bottle onto a grimy table and singing the United States National Anthem. A teenage boy is rocking back and forth, humming a Britney Spears tune.
A middle-aged woman is on her hands and knees, her jaw slack, and eyes dazed.
Luciano derisively spits, "Jesus fuck. Where do all these sad sacks come from?"
Paul is not interested, "Like I c--care. C'mon, let's just get what we came here to get and leave this shithole before someone fucking burns it down. Shit..." He grimaces and continues to mutter under his breath.
The woman leads the guys into the kitchen. There's a small glass table with some cushions as chairs. She grabs a bottle of vodka and 2 shot glasses.
"Drinks, boys? Marco says this one's all the way from the former Soviet Union. Heh."
Paul declines, as does Luciano.
Marco is the dealer. He comes sauntering out of a room with some old-ass cellular phone in hand, "Wazzup, Paul? My favorite customer! Haven't seen you in a while."
He looks at Luciano and smirks, "Hello there, Mr. Donovan. Long time no see, huh?"
Marco is in his late-30s. He's of medium build and average height. His hair is bleached around the sides and dyed at the top. He looks like he sleeps well, for a drug dealer.
He's wearing bermuda shorts and a t-shirt with a suggestive image of a woman licking a lollipop. He's all smiles and high spirits.
Luciano scoffs, "Yeah, sure. Y'know, Marco, I always thought you were a fucking sleazebag."
Marco pouts, "Me? Sleazebag? I'm like you, Luciano Donovan Jr., a legitimate businessman! Ain't nothing sleazy about hookin' up rich boys with their blow, y'know what I mean?"
"Hmph," LDJ isn't amused, "Get the fucking candy, Marco."
Marco chuckles, "Of course. But first, you gotta pay me up front, eh? I don't do fucking charity and you boys CAN afford my...very affordable prices. Hell, you boys could afford this 'hood and many of these poor folk around. And then some more, haha."
He looks over his shoulder and nods at an old woman who's watching TV. She stands up and goes to get the good stuff for Mr. Cho.
Marco helps himself to the shots of vodka that the lanky chick poured for the 2 guys. He downs each of them in succession and scowls at the stinging taste of the alcohol.
He downs the drink and slams the glass down. His voice is a little slurred, "So, you're gonna shoot up, Paul? I love watching my customers enjoying themselves. It's a great stress reliever. Especially for Yumi here."
Paul reaches into his suit pocket and pulls out a ziploc bag. He pulls out a large, rolled-up bundle of cash.
He callously tosses it over to Marco, who tosses it over to Yumi. She chuckles and pulls out a money counting machine that is surprisingly clean and well maintained. It counts the bills with great speed.
Yumi nods over to Marco. He gently claps his hands and smiles widely, "That's what I like to see! Mr. Cho's always good for his money. Heh. We got ourselves a gentleman right here, don't we?"
His voice is brimming with charm and sleaziness. He's clearly a professional, and a very good one at that.
Yumi takes a few $100 notes and slips them inside her bra, "Heh. Thanks."
Luciano points at her and is about to say, "Hey, she took--"
Marco shrugs, "It's her cut, none of your business." He chuckles and adds, "C'mon, boys, I know you love my merchandise!"
Luciano dryly states, "I don't snort that stuff, man. It's all for my best pal over here."
Marco leans against a wall and folds his arms, "Hmm, that so? Not even a little bump to take an edge off, brighten up those colors? Get rid of the stress that plagues the son of Luciano Donovan Senior?"
Paul sputters, "F--Fuck off. Don't pretend that you give a shit about us, Marco. W--Where the fuck is it, man?"
Marco holds out his hands in a placating gesture, "Calm down, speedy. I got grandma measuring it, weighing it, and maybe stuffing a bit of it up her ass. We're just talking, eh?"
"Yeah, well, I don't fucking like it when I don't get something I fucking paid for!!" Paul is getting twitchy again.
Marco retorts, "C'mon, this isn't fuckin' KFC. Quality takes time. If you want your snow fast, you can try asking someone else, but I'm all about that quality product, you feel me?"
Paul sighs and calms down.
After a few moments, the old woman comes back with what looks like a pound of cocaine, wrapped up in a brown paper bag.
Marco hands it over, "There we go! Now, I hope to see you again reaaaaal soon, Mr. Cho."
Paul sets the bag on the table and bites his lip, "I--I need to make sure that it's--"
Marco politely bows his head, "Of course. Hey, Yumi, get a razor blade from the bathroom, please."
Yumi complies and comes back with a bathroom razor blade. Paul snatches it from her, cuts out some good bits of the snow, and measures it out.
Paul sniffs a few times and bends over to get some of the cocaine into his nostrils. He closes his eyes and inhales deeply.
Luciano asks, "You OK there, buddy?"
Paul makes a few snorting noises and shuts his eyes in satisfaction of the product that he's just shelled out $8500 for.
(Most people here don't even make that much in 6 months.)
He nods and tells LDJ, "Y--Yeah, I'm good."
Luciano asks again, "You sure?"
Paul rolls his eyes at this.
Marco steps in, "Hey, hey. If my buddy says he's good, then he's good."
Luciano sighs and shrugs, "Yeah, c'mon, let's get outta this dump before the cops show up, heh."
Marco protests, "Hey, I'm a legitimate businessman. Hell, I got a few cops as customers in here getting blasted on some blow, hahahaha!"
Luciano shakes his head in derision, "You keep saying that like it means something."
"Yeah, you won't believe who's running me outta business these days, man!"
Paul asks, "Who? The Cholos?"
"Nah, man! Fuckin' Purdue Pharma and that OxyContin shit. It's a fucking travesty, y'know?"
Marco continues whining, "Here I am- a legitimate businessman being pushed out by a goddamn pharma company! Yumi here is practically hooked onto that Oxy shit and she got it prescribed to her. Legally! Gah! Imagine that!"
Luciano snickers, "Hmm, I think I should buy me some shares in Purdue Pharma. C'mon, Paul, let's leave before your dealer starts crying like a little baby."
Marco scowls and yells, "Fuck you, Donovan Junior! You're just jealous I'm raking in the cash while you're still living in the shadow of your daddy."
Luciano narrows an eye and toughens up, "The fuck you say to me, you dope peddlin' piece of--"
Paul clutches his bag of cocaine tightly and pulls Luciano back, "N--Not here. We--We gotta go, man."
He looks over at Marco, "T--Thanks, Marco. The usual price, next time, eh?"
Marco waves them off, "Yeah, yeah. Usual price. Now, get outta here."
Yumi escorts them to the front door. Paul almost steps on someone's wrist. He notices what look like bite marks on that person's thin and pale skin.
(Vampires have been through here, and they've forgotten to lick the wounds shut. Not good.)
He forces himself not to look back at the drug-infested house.
Yumi's lips are quivering. She licks them a few times and asks, "Hey, y--you know any--anywhere I can get a doc to prescribe me some Oxy? I need 80 milligrams, I heard they--they were making a 160--"
Luciano stops her, "What do we look like to you, bums? Ask your boyfriend in there. Crazy bitch."
Paul gets in the car and says, "That's enough, man."
Luciano scoffs, "Jesus, Paul. Next time, you come to this dump alone."
Paul protests, "But, Luciano! I can't, man! I need you here! You're my best friend, my bro before all the hoes! I trust you, Luciano. With everything."
Luciano grimaces and taps the wheel a few times, "OK, yeah, I get it, man. Stop acting like a faggot. Sheesh."
Paul grins, "Remember that deal we made when we were 16?"
"Hah, yeah, never to share our money with chicks, right?"
"Yeah, haha," Paul chortles. He shoves the bag of coke into the car's glove compartment.
Luciano starts the car up, "God, when I get richer, I'm buying this place up. I think a mall or a theme park would be perfect for this neighborhood."
"Fuckin' A!" Paul agrees and carelessly adds, "Maybe a hobo-themed amusement park! People would eat that shit up!"
"Hmm, yeah," Luciano jokes, "And, a hobo-themed mall. With hobo merch and shit, haahahahaha!"
They drive off, laughing and joking with each other. Their problems and fears (as far as they have any real ones) temporarily forgotten.
Meanwhile, the poor, neglected, and forgotten souls in Marco's joint continue to languish in filth, misery, and pain.
Some will try to get high, others will try to escape into a temporary place of comfort and safety. The rest will continue to pass the night in a daze of depression and despair.
Yumi pulls out an orange pill bottle from her pant pocket and empties the last few tablets of Oxy that she has on her. It's all the 10 mg variant, so she won't get much of a high, but it's the best she can get at the moment.
She swallows them all and settles down on a nasty mattress, she throws her head back and moans softly. She's already on the road to getting high.
This is the Flimont City they don't talk about in the media and in the tourist guides. This is what they so effusively call "Wall Street 2.0".
If such issues are ever brought up, it's from a moralistic and/or law-and-order perspective.
In reality, these people (through no fault of their own) have no voice, no freedom, no rights, and no protection. The vast majority of them are treated as either expendable or worse.
To be a homeless person in a place like this, well, that's a fucking death sentence.
Many of the folk in that drug den likely work 2 or more jobs, but are nevertheless constantly denied or turned down for better opportunities (assuming such even exist in such a place as F-City).
They have no proper home and no safety net. They eke out a miserable existence and have no hope for the future. Meanwhile, the rich and powerful continue to live it large, off the tears, sweat, and blood of such unfortunate souls.
The white-collar crooks and well-dressed thieves continue to bleed this already dying city dry. The government and the police, in particular, aid in such sordid deeds.
Whether it's through truncheons, legislation, tasers, or lobbying, Flimont City is being ripped apart and broken from the inside out. A festering cesspool of misery and backwardness that is being perpetually and conveniently forgotten by those supposed to be in charge of it.
Luciano eventually shows up at the upscale and fancy mansion of none other than Sophie. It's one of the most extravagant properties in all of Flimont.
It's an imposing edifice that is located on a sprawling estate in the rich and posh northern area of F-City. This opulent mansion is reminiscent of the ones back in Western Europe.
It has a tall fountain, a nice garden, a few gazebos, and a large pond in front of it. There's also a long winding road leading up to it.
Luciano parks his car and is driven to Sophie's front door via a golf cart. The 2 men on the vehicle don't say anything or ask anything of him. They know better than that.
This is all part of protocol, and he is well familiar with its terms.
Sophie is already standing outside, hands clasped behind her back. She's wearing her gown and some very light makeup.
She hopes that Luciano has already broken things off with Angie, but that doesn't seem to be the case.
Luciano gets off the golf cart and gives his aristocrat girlfriend a hug. He sways from side to side and follows it up with a light peck on the cheek.
Sophie pulls him inside her mansion and has her butlers serve the duo some red wine. She has them pour out the alcohol into expensive crystal goblets. It's something that dates back to the late 19th century.
Yummy.
Sophie dismisses her butlers and leans forward to give her boyfriend a nice, wet, sloppy, and passionate kiss. Luciano smiles, pleased by all of this. He can already see where this is going.
He melts into the kiss, their tongues swirl around each other. This kiss goes on and on; it's very intimate and very wet. It's hot. Sophie knows what her man likes.
Luciano breaks away and sharply exhales. He looks around her mansion.
It's bright, there are a lot of white-and-cream colored furniture, and it all has a distinct air of snobbishness about it. It's all very pristine. Just like her. And she hates messes or anything of that kind.
Luciano takes a light sip of the wine and winces at its earthy and tangy taste, "Aah!"
He sighs, "My Sophie, you do know how to please a man, huh? So...classy, so...fancy. You are truly my princess." He smiles widely.
Sophie puts her hand on her chest and slightly bows her head, "Oh, Luciano baby. My prince...you know just the right words to say to make a woman melt."
Luciano smugly absorbs her compliment, "Yeah, I am the prince, aren't I? The prince of fucking Flimont City."
(That title is best reserved for the actual Kindred Prince of Flimont City- Antonio "Tony" Black of Clan Ventrue).
Sophie drinks some of the wine and cuts to the chase, "So, did you break things off with that negro yet? I do not know why you still insist on seeing her, Luciano, baby."
Luciano sighs, "Look, it's nothing, OK. You know this. It was a one-off mistake." His voice has an air of finality to it.
Sophie shakes her head, "If you say so. Those poinsettias you sent are really lovely. And I like your suit, my sweet prince. Did you get it custom-made?"
She's already next to him, fiddling with the buttons and the belt.
Luciano softly chuckles and leans back, "Heh. Oh, yeah, this shit's custom-made."
Sophie kneels down in front of him and begins unbuckling his belt. Her movements are slow and sensual, just the way he likes them.
Luciano sips some of the wine again and puts it aside on a nearby table, "Oh, shit. I'm hard as fuckin' rocks..."
Sophie licks her lips and grabs his dick. She runs her fingers through his pubes, "Oh, yes. Yes, my love..."
One can utilize one's own imagination to fill in the blanks as to what happens next.
Chapter 4: Paging Dr. Collins
The next night...
The sun rises and it ultimately falls. It's an inevitable and natural process of life on this blue ball.
The Kindred prepare to rise from the darkness of their day-long slumber, a strange and unnatural process that they must go through on a daily basis. Their undead bodies are completely unsuited for the light of day, and thus must they rest their Unliving bodies.
The sun would obliterate most of them in seconds, or perhaps minutes, should they ever foolishly or accidentally expose themselves to the sunlight.
They'd burn, reduced to little more than charred, stinky, and rotten ashes scattered across the landscape. It wouldn't be pleasant. And, of course, that would be IT for them.
Final Death, or perhaps worse. A fate that most Kindred would rather avoid on nights such as these.
The newly-appointed Tzimisce Primogen, Dr. Collins, awakens from his day-sleep. He's in a set of simple pyjamas that is a bit worse for wear.
His eyes flutter open and he stretches his body. He looks around his Haven and begins to collect his thoughts.
His Haven is a duplex house located in a quieter part of Flimont City. The floors are carpeted, there are paintings on the walls, and it's pretty much the usual interior decor for the area.
It's all very clean, very neat, and very precise.
Apart from his bedroom, there's also the study, and that's where the Primogen keeps a few things of importance to him- archaic tomes, magazines and publications related to science and medicine, a few bags of chilled blood, and so on.
As an actual doctor, he has ease getting access to blood, among other things.
For now, the good Tzimisce doctor heads for a quick bath. He undresses and sits in the warm water for a few minutes, trying to collect his thoughts and come to grips with the tasks before him for tonight.
Dr. Collins steps out of the water and towels himself dry. He heads to the bedroom to pick out a proper outfit for himself.
It's the usual- a formal shirt with a stiff collar, navy blue wide-leg pants, socks with a small print on them, and nicely-polished shoes. The ensemble is topped off with a warm but tasteful jacket.
He checks himself over in the mirror. The Primogen is all suited and ready for business. And the business he's in is now of the political kind.
But, he cannot neglect his clinic. Being appointed as Primogen was not wholly unexpected for Dr. Collins. He had his own fair share of intrigue in the past.
He's seen a thing or 2 and dabbled in the political side of things more times than he can count on his Tzimisce hands and feet (which, by the way, are perfectly normal, for his Clan, at least).
His position as Tzimisce Primogen was cemented last night when the prior Primogen "disappeared." This could mean anything from being Beckoned away to being destroyed.
Regardless of all of this, Dr. Collins is now in Galeb's position of power. There's a new Tzimisce Primogen in town and everyone has to deal with it, no matter their feelings about the whole thing.
The bell rings, a charming, soothing chime. He opens the front door and is greeted by his Ghoul, Brock.
Brock is a young, muscular man sporting a brown mullet. He's wearing a brown suit with a yellow button-down shirt underneath it.
Dr. Collins looks at his Ghoul from head to toe, "Brock...going somewhere tonight?"
Brock chuckles, "Uh...no. Not exactly. Err...I see you're awake. Sleep well, doc?"
"Mm-hmm. Come on in. There's some things we need to talk about."
Brock smiles and steps in to his Domitor's Haven. He takes a seat at a couch. It's very comfy and plush. He lets out a satisfied grunt.
The good doctor sits on the opposite couch and steeples his fingers, "I've been appointed as the Primogen for the Tzimisce Clan."
Brock nods in approval, "OK. Good for you. I know it's not my place, but Galeb was kind of an asshole."
Dr. Collins doesn't chide his retainer for the remark, "He was, wasn't he? Heh. Anyways, Brock, we'll have to meet with the Prince and the other Primogen, make our presence known in Flimont."
"Sure thing. What about the clinic, can you still do that alongside your new duties as Primogen?"
Dr. Collins thoughtfully nods, "That's what I wanna make clear to the others tonight. My duty is ALWAYS to my patients, but now I have additional obligations and duties to fulfill as a member of the Court."
"I understand. And, what do we do about Galeb? Do you have ANY idea what happened to him?"
Dr. Collins sighs and shifts in his seat, "No clue. I've...looked everywhere I can possibly look and think of. N--Nothing."
Brock can't help but pick up on a tinge of insincerity in his master's voice, but he doesn't push the issue. It's better for him if he doesn't get involved in broader Tzimisce Clan affairs.
Brock speaks up, "OK, so, we'll go see the Prince, maybe some others from our Clan, and let 'em know that we're ready to play ball, right?"
Dr. Collins dryly says, "Yeah, but I want to see a few of my patients tonight. The others will just have to wait."
Brock shrugs, "Sure thing. And um...hey, doc?"
"What is it?"
Brock bites his lower lip and looks a bit nervous, "I was thinking about what we talked about..."
"And?"
Brock takes on a more resolute demeanor, "Yeah, yeah, I'm ready to take the next steps to become a plastic surgeon. I wanna keep going."
Dr. Collins warmly smiles, "Good! Great, even! Y--You sure about this?"
Brock eagerly nods, "Yeah, doc. I've always been so fascinated by the human body and I guess this whole Tzimisce Flesh-Crafting thing is kinda rubbing off on me, heh."
Dr. Collins equably affirms, "I'm happy for you, Brock. In the 7 years that you've been with me, you've always shown me your keen interest and willingness to help. And I appreciate all of it."
Brock's expression softens, "Aw, doc, come on. I'm just doing what I have to in exchange for eternal youth and...all the other awesome things."
Brock smiles widely and adds, "Oh, by the way...doc. There's something I've been wanting to tell you for--for a long time now--"
He's interrupted by the doctor's pager sharply ringing and beeping, "Excuse me." Dr. Collins takes it off his belt, checks the number, and frowns. He knows who it is and why he's paging the doc.
The doctor rises up and heads to the landline phone.
Wes, the receptionist at the clinic answers, "Dr. Collins, you there?" He sounds a little flustered and tense.
"Wes. What's wrong?"
Wes shakily answers, "Uhhhh...there's...there's this girl here and I'm pretty sure she's an addict or something, but she won't leave! We got other patients waiting for their appointment with you and she won't leave!"
Dr. Collins grunts, "I'll be right there. Just hold her off."
Dr. Collins can hear some muffled voices and a loud scream on the other side. The line goes dead. The doctor hangs up.
He looks over at his Ghoul, "Well, whatever you wanted to say to me will have to wait, Brock. There's some stuff going on at the clinic that I gotta take care of."
Brock smiles a sad and knowing smile, "Oh, I understand, doc. I get it. Go on. I'll uh...meet you there."
"Hmph," the doctor starts to leave but stops, "This thing you had to tell me, is it important?"
Brock exhales and shakes his head, "Nah. It's alright. We'll catch up later."
Brock leaves his master's Haven and walks off into the evening.
20 minutes later...
Dr. Collins arrives at his clinic. It's a very modest facility in the inner-city area of Flimont, away from all the ritzy and high-class parts.
The waiting room is quite small. It's got some tables with some magazines scattered on them and a few plastic chairs.
The floor is tiled. There's an old CRT monitor and a radio playing some tunes from 1968. There's all kinds of medical-related fact sheets, charts, and posters plastered on the aging walls.
There's an old CAT scan poster, some bite-sized information about blood clots, and some info about STDs. There's even an anti-drunk-driving poster from last century.
This place is starting to show its age, if the barely-noticeable cracks on the walls and the creaky tiles weren't a dead giveaway already.
Wes, the receptionist, is sitting at a desk. He's wearing a long-sleeve dress shirt with a clip-on tie.
He's a mortal 19-year-old with a round face and messy hair. He's working for the doctor in the hopes of saving up enough money to go to a medical school somewhere in the near future.
He doesn't know of Dr. Collins's true nature, but he looks up to the Tzimisce and hopes to follow in a similar line of work when he grows older. He admires him and sees him as a great role model.
One of the best doctors out there. He believes that Dr. Collins can fix just about anything.
Dr. Collins already drank from a bag of blood on the way here, so his Hunger is sated (for now, at least).
Yumi is at the front of the clinic, her hands are shaking and she's sweating bullets. She's also looking around the place and talking to herself. She seems to be quite delirious and is mumbling things under her breath.
Wes looks a little frightened, as do the other patients. There's an inconsolable baby wailing in his mother's arms. The rest of the patients are keeping their heads down. They're all quite nervous.
Yumi paces around and bites her thumb, teeth chattering and body trembling. Her face is pale, her hair is disheveled, and her eyes look like they're popping out of her head. She looks like a wreck. And she sounds like one, too.
"I--I--I just want a little Oxy, OK? You--you work for the doc, right? Can you go back to where he keeps his meds and get me a b--bottle. I want the 80 milligrams." Her voice is raspy. She sounds desperate.
She's clutching something inside her pocket; it looks like a pill bottle. The contents are rattling around inside.
Dr. Collins puts his cold hand on her shoulder. This causes her to flinch and shriek, "WHO THE FUCK ARE YOU? LET ME GO!" She shrieks even louder. Her cries echo throughout the clinic.
Dr. Collins is about to try and calm her down when she hisses at him, "Hey, hey, you're the doc, right? You prescribe OxyContin, right, right?"
Dr. Collins firmly answers, "I don't prescribe poison to my patients. I'm going to have to calmly ask you to leave. Now, alright? If you have an ailment, make an appointment and fill out the proper forms." He says this in a low, even tone of voice.
Yumi starts to tear up. She can see that no one here wants to help her. Not even the doctor himself, "I--I--I just...I need it, man. I fucking need it. My body h--hurts when I don't take it. I'm fine when I pop a pill, doc, please--"
She literally gets on her knees and clasps her hands together in a praying fashion. She's crying and begging now, "Please, please, please..." she sobs and whimpers.
Dr. Collins is taken aback by this display of desperation and despair. He's seen plenty of addicts come into his clinic before, but nothing like this.
She sobs and sobs and sobs, tears rolling down her eyes and staining the floor with their salty wetness. She continues to beg for some of the OxyContin.
The other patients look at her with sympathy and worry. They feel sorry for her and wonder what this OxyContin stuff is.
Dr. Collins sighs deeply, "Look, girl. I have other patients who need me. The most I can do is look you over and MAYBE, MAYBE prescribe you some Tylenol."
Yumi's breath hitches and her voice trembles, "N--No. No, no, no, no, no, no! That's not gonna help me, doc! I--I--I need the fucking Oxy! Please!!"
She gets up and howls at him, "I NEED THE FUCKING OXYCONTIN! I NEED IT! I NEED IT!!" She starts to shriek hysterically.
Dr. Collins puts his hands on her shoulders, "You have to calm yourself down. Now."
Wes shakily inquires, "S--Should I call the cops, doc?"
Upon hearing this, Yumi bolts out of the clinic, not bothering to look back or even acknowledge the doctor's words. She runs off, her heart racing and tears rolling down her cheeks.
She cries out and keeps running. Her head is pounding and her vision is blurring. She's getting dizzy and disoriented. She falls down and lands on some gravel.
After a few moments, she gets up and stumbles along. She bumps into a few people walking around and disappears into the night. Dr. Collins shakes his head and goes back inside his clinic.
Wes lets out a sigh of relief, as do a few of the patients who've been seated there for close to an hour.
Dr. Collins apologizes to the other patients for the inconvenience, "I'm so sorry about all of that."
A patient asks, "Is OxyContin dangerous?"
The Stoker sighs, "It's a Schedule II narcotic. It's a whole lot more than 'dangerous'. Now, come on, let's take a look at you."
The patient counters, "But other doctors prescribe it--"
Dr. Collins raises his hand, "I'm NOT other doctors. I took an oath, as did they. But I have more respect for human life than to give you something that'll ruin it."
Another random patient scoffs, "Yeah, right. You just want to keep us hooked on your Tylenol and cough syrup crap. Oxy's a wonder drug--"
Dr. Collins bitterly claps back, "Wonder? Wonder?! Did you just see the girl who was here?! How does that look like 'wonder' to you?!" He's raising his voice now.
He angrily spits, "OxyContin is poison, fucking poison!"
The patients are all shocked and stunned into a wordless silence by the doctor's justified outburst.
Wes looks up at the doctor with fear in his eyes. The good doctor never loses his temper like this. This is most unusual. But then again, that OxyContin-crazed girl was quite something else.
Dr. Collins firmly declares, "I'll see you 1 at a time. Wes, send the 1st one in!"
Wes gulps and nervously nods. He calls out a name and forces a professional smile, "Come on, sir. Let's see if we can get that nasty infection fixed up, shall we?"
Dr. Collins heads to his office to check over his medical notes and prepare for his upcoming appointments.
The other patients line up and the doctor takes a look at them, 1 after the other. They're mostly dealing with the usual- colds, allergies, and other common ailments.
One of the patients has a sprained ankle. Another has a nasty rash on his stomach.
After a few hours, Brock arrives at the clinic, after most of the commotion has died down. He's greeted by a concerned Wes, "Brock!"
"Wesley! What's up?"
Wes almost too-excitedly recalls the earlier events. He's wildly gesticulating and embellishing certain parts. He seems to be reliving the incident through his animated and vivid retelling of the events.
Brock frowns, "OxyContin? Jesus."
Dr. Collins sees the last patient off and walks over to the duo, a weary and forlorn expression on his face. He doesn't even say anything, he just stands there, arms crossed.
Brock asks, "Doc, how come you don't prescribe that stuff?"
"I'm in contact with this doctor in a small coal mining town in southwest Virginia and he's got a lot of--a lot of horror stories to tell about Purdue's so-called 'wonder drug'."
Brock asks, "So, it's not legit stuff?"
The doctor dryly answers, "It's...a lot more complicated than that, Brock."
Wes queries, "If it's not legit, then how come others are handing it out like it's candy? Another doctor I know practically prescribes this for everything- even if it's not serious!"
The doctor shakes his head, "It's a huge problem, Wes. It's...an epidemic..." The Flesh-Shaper has a distant and almost sad look on his face. He continues, "It's...I think it's worse than anything we've seen before."
The young receptionist can't believe what he's hearing. How could a pharmaceutical company do such a thing?
Brock sighs, "Yeah, well, I'll leave you guys to it. I--I gotta go to my classes now." He waves the 2 men goodbye and heads out.
He looks over his shoulder, "Meet you later, doc?"
"Sure, sure."
Wes looks up at the doc, "So, how do you know Brock? Are you, like related, or something?"
Dr. Collins replies, "He's...a friend, Wesley."
He softly mutters to himself, "The son I never had."
Wes asks, "Hmm? What was that?"
"Nothing, n--never mind. Get back to work. And don't worry, I'll write you a good recommendation letter when you apply to medical school."
Wes smiles, "Thanks, doc. You're the best!"
"Hmm. I've been doing this for a long time, kid."
Dr. Collins was Embraced in the 1960s. He was born in the 1900s, so he was about 60-something when the fangs of his Sire pierced his throat and changed him forever.
He served as a medic on the Western Front during the Second World War and he met Elizabeth "Lee" Miller in France back in the 40s.
After the war, Dr. Collins returned to the USA and continued to treat people. But it wasn't long before a middling career in New York City would come to a premature end.
He was Embraced and he became a part of a Clan of alien vampires who crafted and shaped the bodies of others (and themselves) into strange and otherworldly forms.
Some of it, however, is downright grotesque, but Dr. Collins wants and has no part in any of the nasty excesses of his Clan.
He quickly learned how to wield the powers of his Clan, as well as some other things. His life was completely upended, but he adjusted well enough.
He had a short-lived stint in Magnolia City during the 1980s before reestablishing himself as a General Practitioner in Flimont City during the late 90s.
He had to make his way in the world of the Unliving. It wasn't easy, but he eventually made a name for himself and built a decent enough reputation in Kindred Society over the decades.
As he's in his office, reminiscing over his long and eventful life (and Unlife), there's a knock on his door, "Doc? It's me. You got a visitor."
Dr. Collins plainly answers, "Who?"
"Uh...it's the Purdue Pharma salesman. Again. I tried telling him you were not here, but he is--is pretty pushy."
Dr. Collins sighs, "Let him in."
This particular salesman from Purdue Pharma (!) is pretty pushy and has been nagging Dr. Collins for weeks on end about the supposed benefits of OxyContin.
This man is wearing an expensive gray suit with a blue tie. He's got dark hair combed to the side and brown eyes. He has a puffy face and bags under his eyes.
His name's Fred and he's in his 20s. He's one of Purdue Pharma's rising stars in the sales team, or so he thinks.
"Dr. Collins!" he excitedly exclaims, "How's my favorite doctor doing tonight?"
Dr. Collins is as dry as ever, "Fred. Here to bribe me with more useless things again, huh?"
Fred doesn't get offended by this remark, "Aw, c'mon, doc! You know you love those pens and coffee cups. How about some free OxyContin samples, eh?"
He pulls out a scroll pen and hands it to the vampire, "Why don't you hold onto this, hmm?"
It's a scroll pen that touts the supposed benefit of Purdue Pharma's "miracle" drug. If Yumi was anything to go by, then everything on that scroll pen is a steaming pile of bullshit and lies.
Dr. Collins grudgingly takes the pen, "Thanks. Now, you can leave."
"Ahhh, ah, ah, doc! Let me tell you a little more about this awesome stuff called OxyContin!"
Dr. Collins takes off his thin-framed glasses and scrunches the bridge of his nose, "Why do you have to be so fucking obnoxious and pushy?"
"I--I'm not being obnoxious, doc. I'm just here to let you know all about OxyContin and--"
Fred leans closer and lowers his voice, "--you know that patients can sue you for not prescribing them painkillers, right?"
Dr. Collins shakes his head and retorts, "And what if I prescribe my patients a Schedule II narcotic and they turn into addicts because of it?"
Fred counters, "But less than 1% get addicted--"
"That's bullshit. They DO get addicted. I've seen one a few hours back."
The salesman gets angry, "Well, it's--it's not our fault that some people choose to abuse OxyContin, is it? I mean, Flimont City has a reputation for such things."
Dr. Collins angrily spits, "Get out of my clinic. Now."
Fred frowns and throws his hands up, "Alright, alright. Jesus. No need to get testy. But, seriously, you're making your own patients suffer. Needlessly. And we at Purdue are more than happy to help...alleviate that suffering."
"Like in hell you are. How are you alleviating anyone's suffering? Go on, tell me, by bribing doctors around the country with beautiful women, fine wines, paid vacations to fucking Hawaii, and pens?!"
The salesman scowls, "You're such a fucking buzzkill, man."
"I'm trying to keep people from dying, Fred. Damnit!"
The young man shakes his head in derision, "They're not dying, but they WILL if you keep going down this road and refuse to even listen to us. I mean, think about it, doc. Just think about it."
Dr. Collins bluntly states, "Listen here, Fred. I AM the doctor here, OK? I have years and years and YEARS of experience treating people, helping them get better, and seeing them leave my clinic with a smile on their faces."
He continues, "Now, you're telling me that I'm supposed to write out some prescriptions for that Oxy shit because YOU and some fucking paid shills at your goddamn company say so?!"
The doctor concludes with a scoff, "Yeah, right. Not happening, kid."
Fred sighs, "What will change your mind, doc? Anything."
"Don't show me a silly pen with random charts and unsourced information on it. Show me the 500-page studies, the clinical trial data, the research, and the proof behind it."
"I--I'm not sure I have access to that kinda stuff, doc."
Dr. Collins rolls his eyes and points to the door, "Get. Out. Of. My. Office. Now!"
Fred rolls his eyes and leaves Dr. Collins's office, muttering under his breath.
Dr. Collins shakes his head and goes back to work.
Fred is just a cog in a far bigger and nastier machine. He just regurgitates whatever's been passed down to him from his superiors at the sales rep meetings.
A new sportscar was promised to anyone in Fred's particular group of pushy salespeople who manages to get a certain amount of doctors to prescribe their "wonder drug" to their patients.
Such perverse incentives, naturally, have resulted in a number of unscrupulous doctors across the city writing out prescription after prescription for this highly addictive drug.
These sales reps are literally being incentivized to hook as many people as possible on this shit.
And the Sacklers are the ones rolling in the dosh, while people like Yumi and countless others become enslaved to their opioid drug and wind up dead or worse.
In other words, it's all pretty fucking messed up and it's being facilitated by people like Fred, who don't really know any better.
For Fred, it's how he earns his bread and keeps a roof over his head.
Thankfully, the Tzimisce Primogen is a man of principle and ethics.
Dr. Collins pulls out a private photo album that he keeps hidden away behind a false wall in his office. The picture album is quite thick and has a lock on it. The lock has a key, and only the doctor has the key.
He opens the lock and takes a good look at the picture album's contents.
Some are from his childhood. Even from a young age, he was wearing glasses. There's him at his high school graduation somewhere in the 1910s. His parents were very proud of him that sunny day.
There's another of him, standing next to the legendary Lee Miller herself. He fondly remembers that picture and the energy that Lee radiated. Her courage and boldness had inspired him.
She was such a wild and wonderful person.
Then, there's him and his unit in France. The pictures in this photo album are of the things he's lost, the people he's cared about, the people who have grown old and died while he has remained, frozen in time.
A tear of blood trickles down his eye and drops on the picture of Lee. He sighs, wipes his face, and locks the photo album. He puts it away and returns to work.
After a few minutes, a knock is heard on the doctor's door.
He hollers out, "Come in!"
Wes steps in and he looks a little nervous, "Uh...hi, doc."
"Wes, what's wrong?"
"Uh...there was this really jumpy lawyer-looking guy at the front desk and he asked if he could have a word with you. I--I told him you were busy."
Dr. Collins sighs, "A lawyer, huh?"
Wes nervously says, "Yeah, I dunno what kind but he was pretty insistent on wanting to see you specifically. I told him to make an appointment and come back tomorrow."
Dr. Collins warmly smiles, "Hmm, you did good, Wes. Did he say what he wanted or what his name was or anything?"
Wes shakes his head, "No. He asked for you by name. Didn't say what was ailing him, but he looked really pale and uh...hollow-faced."
Dr. Collins is a little taken aback, "Pale and hollow-faced? Are you sure?"
"Yeah. He looked really sick, doc. I felt kinda bad sending him away, but I know that you're pretty insistent about people making appointments before they see you."
"Hmm. You're a good receptionist, Wesley. You did well."
Dr. Collins has a small idea about who it might be and why he's here, but he doesn't have the whole picture.
Yet.
He asks, "What time did you set for our appointment?"
Wes answers, "He'll be your 1st patient tomorrow evening, doc."
"Thanks, Wes."
"Sure thing, doc." Wes scurries off and does a little happy dance. He's been praised by the good doctor and he can't be happier.
After some time, Dr. Collins begins wrapping things up at the clinic. He has to find a way to juggle his obligations as Tzimisce Primogen, his clinic duties, and his eternal vampiric desires.
It's a lot to deal with, but he's still managing to keep it together.
Brock is outside the clinic, leaning against the wall, arms folded. He's not the patient type. He looks like he wants to be elsewhere, but the wishes and commands of his Domitor override all.
He uses a toothpick to pick out some food from between his teeth. He then throws the toothpick into a dustbin and hisses.
"All ready, doc?"
Dr. Collins nods and gets in his goofy-looking First Generation (ZE1) Honda Insight. It's green in color and well-maintained.
He asks his Ghoul, "You coming with me, or should I meet you at the place?"
"I wouldn't wanna be seen riding in that thing, no offense, haha! I'll meet you there."
Dr. Collins nods and Brock goes on his merry way.
Prince Antonio has chosen another restaurant as the meeting place. Much to the dismay of Sheriff Velma, who'd rather have these kinds of meetings at Elysium itself.
This particular restaurant is fancy and all done-up. It's called "The Golden Crown Cuisine" and its run by a Ventrue named Leonard "Lenny" Grayson.
He's not here tonight, but he's let the Prince know that his restaurant is available for use, as long as it doesn't conflict with the restaurant's business hours.
There's a balding man with a drawn face behind the counter. He's wearing a fancy white suit, a purple button-down shirt, and a gold watch. That's Janus- Lenny's Ghoul (and co-owner of the GCC).
Janus welcomes the Prince inside, "Prince Antonio. Mr. Grayson sends his regards. He is currently busy looking at...franchising opportunities. But he has assured me that we are fully available to accommodate your needs tonight, should they arise."
Prince Antonio simply nods and thanks Janus, who promptly bows his head and leaves the Prince and Sheriff Velma to themselves.
The Ventrue Sheriff takes a look around the place. There's hanging flowerpots and nice paintings on the walls. The lighting is decent and not too overbearing.
The seats are nicely padded and plush. The tables are polished, clean, and have nice flower arrangements on them. There's a TV behind the counter and it's tuned in to a random talk show.
Sheriff Velma brings her sunglasses down to the bridge of her nose and scans the area. It's empty, as it should be for tonight's impromptu gathering.
Prince Antonio remarks, "Lenny sure does know how to go all out, huh?"
Sheriff Velma opines, "It's too much if you ask me. He still owes us $117,000. Plus interest. The GCC needs to get its shit together if we're going to use it as a safehouse and meeting place for these kinds of things."
Prince Antonio is silent. He merely stares off into the distance.
Eventually, he says, "Lenny's legit. I use him as an enforcer from time to time. He enjoys busting skulls and I'll get to...forgiving his debt when the time is right."
She skeptically asks, "Are you sure you trust him? You know that I am more than capable of--"
Prince Antonio raises his finger, "Ah, ah, ah. We've been over this, Velma."
"Then why not formally appoint him as a Scourge?"
Prince Antonio clicks his tongue as way of response.
Sheriff Velma exhales sharply and shakes her head, "Very well. You're the Prince, after all. It's your prerogative."
She doesn't think much of it and shrugs it off.
Sheriff Velma sighs and begins to pace around the place, "You know what I hate about this place?"
"What?"
"The music. It's this generic, mind-numbing nonsense that loops on and on forever and ever."
Prince Antonio doesn't answer. He just sits on one of the nice, fancy seats and puts his feet up on the table, like he owns the place or something.
Sheriff Velma shrugs and takes her seat at a barstool.
"So, any leads on where Galeb might be? We have to find him, Velma. This is an embarrassment to the Court."
The Sheriff dryly replies, "Yeah, sure. I'm exploring every possible avenue, talking to every Dragon I can find. Nothing."
"Well, we can't let this drag on forever, Velma. He's missing and it's not like him to up and leave without any warning or explanation."
Velma thinks out loud, "Maybe he was really Beckoned off?"
The Prince scoffs, "Hmph, where to? Any nearby Domains report a Tzimisce Elder showing up to their front doors?"
Velma grunts and scratches her head, "I...I'll check after we're done here."
Prince Antonio turns to her, "You don't like this place much, huh?"
Sheriff Velma sighs deeply, "It's just that...Lenny Grayson has had multiple ventures in the past, and they've all failed. How is this going to be any different from the last few?"
"I've been on his good side for a long time, Velma. I've helped him with his little problems in the past and he's always done the same for me, too. He's got a mean uppercut, lemme tell ya that much."
The front door to the restaurant is flung open by the Gangrel Primogen, Pedro. He's got a wide smile on his face and he's wearing a popped collar polo shirt, baggy 3/4ths, knock-off Nikes, and some gold chains around his neck.
He looks around and asks, "Yo, homies!"
Prince Antonio is standing up, "Pedro. How's everything?"
Pedro cheerily responds, "It's all going good, my vato (ES: dude)!"
Sheriff Velma scowls at him, "Pedro, watch it. Prince Antonio isn't someone from your 'hood'. You do not have to speak like that."
Pedro frowns, "Ayy, yo. It's just a little expression in Spanish, chica! I'm speaking my way."
He ignores the Sheriff and addresses the Prince, "My man. Lookin' dope. New hairstyle, huh?"
Prince Antonio taps his hair, "Yeah, yeah. I thought I'd try a little hair gel for a change."
"Hmm. Well, I like it. It's dope."
Pedro's eyes drift over to the Sheriff, who has an expressionless, steely glare on her face.
Pedro waves, "Yo, Sherriff!"
Sheriff Velma's reply is a short grunt and she doesn't even acknowledge him.
The Feral shrugs and takes his seat.
The next person to come through the door is Dr. Collins. He stops in his tracks and looks around, "Oh, a fancy restaurant, huh? Heh, sure."
He approaches the Prince and extends his cold hand to him, "Prince Antonio."
Prince Antonio shakes it, "Collins. How's everything going with you?"
The good doctor's voice is flat, "I'm fine."
The Prince inquires, "Any news on Galeb?"
"I'm...afraid not, Prince Antonio. Rest assured, you will be the 1st person to know if anything changes."
Dr. Collins adds, "And, I have some...information that I thought you should know."
"Yes? Go ahead, Collins."
The doctor solemnly speaks, "Galeb was...acting weird a few nights before his disappearance. I tried to speak with him about it and find out what was troubling him, but he seemed distant and aloof."
Sheriff Velma mumbles to herself, "Maybe he really was Beckoned off. Hmm."
Prince Antonio mulls this over and gestures for the good doctor to take a seat.
Dr. Collins does and begins to talk. He's not quite sure if it'll be of use to the Prince or not, but he has to tell someone what he knows.
The good doctor looks down and frowns, "He was...not his usual self. I've known him for quite a while, but his behavior seemed odd the last I spoke with him. I'm afraid that's all I know, Prince Antonio."
Sheriff Velma's eyes narrow, "Hmm, did you happen to catch him with anything, maybe? Anything strange? Anyone strange?"
The doctor shakes his head, "No. Galeb always kept to himself and rarely left his Haven, as I'm sure you're all well aware."
Pedro nods, "Yeah, he guarded that place like it was his fuckin' castle or some shit, haha!"
The Malkavian Primogen, Clarice, eventually shows up. She's dressed in a dark-green a-line dress, brown pumps, and a white shawl draped over her shoulders.
She looks around the restaurant, "Ah. The Golden Crown Cuisine. Proprietor: Leonard Grayson. Continental food on offer. Outrageous prices, even in this neighborhood."
She then takes her seat. She waves at the Prince and gives him a nice smile.
Prince Antonio gives her a nod and a small smile, "Clarice, my dear. Still haven't figured out how to use that inside voice of yours, huh? Ah, well, what the hell."
He stands up and signals for the Sheriff to shut the front door, "Alright, everyone, let's get this started. I've got a lot to do tonight."
The Sheriff locks the front door and sits herself back down.
The Prince begins, "It's been an interesting few nights, hasn't it?"
Nods and murmurs of agreement fill the room.
Prince Antonio continues, "We have a Tzimisce Elder missing, and now I hear from Dr. Collins that Galeb wasn't acting right before he went missing."
He adds, "And then we have that Baali, Markham, in our city."
Pedro growls when he hears that. He spits, "Fuckin' devil worshiper! I say we destroy him!"
The Prince shoots the Outlander a sharp look, "We do no such thing, Pedro. Capeesh?"
Pedro begrudgingly says, "Capeesh, but I wanna be on the record saying that I don't trust that fucking Unholy pendejo. And I don't want him or his kind in my territory or any-fucking-where near my pets."
Prince Antonio shrugs, "Sure, whatever. Now calm the fuck down."
Dr. Collins asks, "You think the Baali's arrival is connected to Galeb's disappearance somehow? It could be possible, I mean. It's just a thought. A little hunch."
Prince Antonio strokes his chin, "I don't know yet. But I'm not ruling anything out, at least. That's 1 possibility we should be looking into, yes. Velma?"
The Sheriff nods, "I'll keep on the hunt and I'll tell you if anything else pops up in that regard. But, from what I've seen, Markham's a teamplayer. When he arrived, he presented himself to you in accordance with the Fifth Tradition."
Prince Antonio chuckles, "He did, didn't he. Ya think it was a ruse to gain my trust, cuz lemme tell you that no one, and I mean NO ONE, fucks with Antonio Black!"
Clarice is the voice of reason, "My Prince, you are getting all worked up over hypotheticals and wild assumptions. Your reasoning doesn't give support to the conclusions you are jumping to--"
The Prince sneers at her, "Like you'd know what being reasonable is."
"I know the difference between a plausible theory and a wild theory, yes. I was a schoolteacher, so I know a thing or 2 about logic and reasoning. So, don't you try to fool me with that one, my dear."
Prince Antonio sneers, "Bite your tongue, Clarice. I'm the Prince of the city and you will address me with respect."
Dr. Collins clears his throat, "She has a point, Prince Antonio. Maybe the Baali is connected to this."
The Prince bangs the table, "Enough about the fucking Baali, damnit! I'm trying to find out what fucking happened to Galeb. He's been part of this city for centuries! I don't want him to be missing."
He continues, "I'll have Velma turn over every rock and rip through your goddamn Havens if I have to. Capeesh?!"
He repeats, "I said, capeesh?! Jesus, you fucking people. Sometimes, you make me feel like I'm not really in charge of shit here. Ugh."
Dr. Collins pensively nods, "I'm sorry, Prince Antonio."
Clarice folds her arms and looks away.
Pedro sucks some air through his teeth, feeling a bit awkward and uneasy now.
The Prince snaps his fingers, "Now, before we go any further with this shit, let me address something. First off, I want you ALL to keep an eye out for Galeb. You even hear a fuckin' whisper, you drop whatever or whoever it is you're doing and follow up on it."
Everyone present (more or less) nods.
The Power Monger Prince adjusts his sleeves, "Next, I want you to spread the word that any newcomers in the city are to be considered suspects. That includes Markham and anyone else who might be coming in the next few nights."
Pedro raises his hand, "What about the Brujah? They're serious about wanting a seat at the table, but they wanna meet in a locale of their choosing."
The Prince scoffs, "Like I'm gonna walk in blind to some territory the Anarchs used to hold. Fuck that. You tell 'em we meet at Elysium or the deal's off. They can kiss the Primogen Council goodbye and fuck off with whatever demands they have."
The Outlander Primogen sighs deeply, "I'll tell 'em that, they won't be too happy, but I'm sure we can come to some sort of compromise."
Clarice inquires, "Are we certain about allowing the Brujah in? Why would they move away from their Anarch brethren to join the ranks of the Ivory Tower? Something is amiss."
Prince Antonio sourly chuckles, "For once, I actually agree with the Lunatic. What's the angle that these Punks are trying to play here, huh? Don't they know who I am?! Don't they know how much power and influence I wield here?!"
Dr. Collins equably answers, "Prince Antonio, I think it's safe to assume that the Brujah have some clue as to how strong and influential you are, otherwise they wouldn't be wasting time asking to see you, yes?"
Prince Antonio calms down, "Ah, Dr. Collins. Our very own voice of reason, huh? Fine, I'll meet these Brujah, but at Elysium, not in some fucking derelict warehouse or wherever."
Sheriff Velma smirks. She likes Elysium a lot more than the random meeting locations that Prince Antonio picks out on a whim (and ofttimes, without consulting her). This time around, he seems to be a bit more rational.
Pedro adds, "They want their seat on the Council. They're still bickering on who the Primogen should be, but that's Brujah for you, hahaha!"
Dr. Collins mutters, "Hmph. I just hope it doesn't become too much trouble for the rest of us..." he lets the thought hang and everyone stares at him for a moment.
After an uncomfortable pause, Sheriff Velma speaks up, "Prince Antonio, I don't think the Baali has any ill intentions, but I'll keep my eye on him, anyway."
Pedro has a dirty look on his face, but he keeps his mouth closed.
There's a rapid knocking sound at the door. Sheriff Velma and the Primogen Council immediately tense up and their heads snap in the direction of the knocking.
Brock is rapping his knuckles at the door and trying to push it open.
Dr. Collins speaks up, "That's Brock. My Ghoul. Please let him in."
Sheriff Velma gets up and slowly opens the door. She regards the Ghoul for a few moments and nods him in.
The Ghoul looks at the other Primogen and quickly nods his head to them in greeting before taking his place next to his Domitor, the good doctor.
Prince Antonio glares at Brock, "You're late. You got an excuse? Also, why are you here?"
Brock is calm and cool, "Traffic. I'm here because the doctor wanted me here." His tone is a tad cocky and the Prince is not amused. Not in the least.
Prince Antonio stares him down, "You know how important and secretive these meetings are, right?"
"Uh...sure. I know the Masquerade, I'm not dumb, OK?"
Prince Antonio raises his chin and opines, "You got a feisty one here, doc."
Dr. Collins looks at his Ghoul, "That's Brock for you. He's still new to all of this. A--Apologies."
The Prince clicks his tongue, "Nah, forget about it. Just make sure he knows who I am and how I run things around here, capeesh?"
Brock snickers, "What are you, Italian or something?"
Dr. Collins growls, "Brock...cut it out."
Brock raises his hands in mock surrender, "Alright, alright. My bad. Sorry. It's just that the whole 'capeesh' routine is kinda...lame."
Pedro laughs, Clarice chuckles. Dr. Collins lowers his head and avoids making eye contact. Sheriff Velma is not amused and Prince Antonio has a dangerous look on his face.
His look changes to a jovial smile and he chuckles, "Hey, I got some Italian in me, yep. It's Flimont City, haha!" He playfully nudges Brock, "No need to get your boxers in a twist."
Brock's a bit stunned, but he can't help but chuckle along, "Sure. Yeah. S--Sorry."
The Prince dismissively waves his hand, "Don't do it again, kid."
Dr. Collins gives his Ghoul an inscrutable look. Is he angry, pleased, both, or something else altogether? No one else in the room is privy to that, unfortunately.
Prince Antonio walks over to the Stoker, "Dr. Collins, there's the matter of your entrance fee."
The doctor's face scrunches in confusion, "'Entrance fee'?! What are you talking about?"
Pedro sighs and blandly states, "It's the Primogen Council entrance fee. 10 grand right at the beginning, after that we cough up 5 grand every month. Cash only."
Clarice openly declares, "Night-time robbery is what is. Extortion, yes that's a more appropriate word."
Prince Antonio glowers at the 2 other Primogens, "Shut up, both of you. You like keeping your heads attached to your bodies, then shut up and keep paying up."
He turns back to Dr. Collins with an expectant look on his face. The 2 other Primogens scowl at their Prince, but they don't dare voice any objections to his rather crude demands.
Not if they value their own necks and Unlives.
Dr. Collins raises his eyebrows, eyes widening, "Well, this is...unexpected. I don't have that kind of money lying around--"
The Prince scoffs, "What?! You're a doctor, you should be rolling in the dough and driving a fuckin' Ferrari by now."
Dr. Collins remains as respectful as possible, "I'm a man of principle, first and foremost. I took the Hippocratic Oath and I stand by it. Always."
"Tch. I don't care, doc. You're in the Primogen Council, you pay up. Simple. Since I'm such a gracious Prince, I'll give you a few nights to find the dough. Capeesh?"
The Tzimisce Primogen sighs wearily and concedes, "Capeesh. I'll find a way to get the cash. But, this is...unexpected. Honestly, I have no idea what kind of system you've got going on here."
The Prince shakes his head in disbelief, "Well, I have to run the city somehow, right?"
Brock innocently looks on, eyes darting from the Primogen to Prince Antonio, then back. He's learning a lot, but he has some...questions for the doctor later.
Prince Antonio turns on his heel and gently brings his hands together, "Alright, let's wrap things up. We've got a city to look after."
The meeting has concluded for now and the members of the Primogen Council are free to go about their night.
These meetings are usually short and to the point, and it's often hard to get them organized due to everyone's different schedules and duties. But, it's better than nothing.
Brock leans close to the good doctor and whispers in his ear, "Doc? W--Where are we gonna get $10,000 in cash from??"
Dr. Collins puts his cold hand on Brock's hand, "Let me worry about that, kid. It's better you don't get involved."
The young man nods. He has some money, but he's not sure if he wants to dip into his savings to pay for the doc's entrance fees. It just...it feels wrong.
Even Pedro has a subtle look of disgust on his face when he had to tell Dr. Collins about this unique arrangement. His disgust doesn't seem to be aimed at his fellow Primogen, however.
It seems aimed at himself, instead.
Clarice maintains her hard and impassive stance as she exits the Golden Crown Cuisine. She has to find a way to pay that amount. The money is coming out of her mattress and not her savings account.
Prince Antonio Black will have his tribute, one way or another.
Sheriff Velma, for her part, goes along with the flow of things. She doesn't dare defy or openly disobey her Prince's commands. The Sheriff will make sure he gets the money from all members of the Council, and soon.
If Dr. Collins doesn't have it, she'll have to get creative. As a Sheriff, it's her job. It's a sordid and thankless job, but someone's got to do it and that person is her.
Pedro sighs as he gets back in his lowrider and drives off into the night.
As Dr. Collins and Brock prepare to leave, the Ventrue Prince hollers out, "HEY! Not so fast!"
The 2 of them turn around and wait, the Prince striding over to them with purpose.
The Blue Blood Prince raises his eyebrow and gives Dr. Collins a good look in the eye, "How's the clinic, doc?"
Dr. Collins plainly answers, "It's all going good. If you want, I can always give you a full checkup. You know, the usual."
Brock mutters to himself, "Pfft. You're all walking corpses anyway, what difference is a checkup gonna make?"
Dr. Collins ignores his Ghoul's remark, "Don't hesitate to drop by, Prince Antonio. I'm sure something's bound to be wrong."
The Ventrue Prince rubs his chin, "Hmm. How about you tell me a little something about the Anarchs in the city? You must know a thing or 2 about those bastards, eh, doc?"
"I'm afraid not. I've always been devoted and faithful to the Camarilla. Sabbat, Anarchs, or whoever else is out there is...none of my concern or business."
Brock is getting a bit impatient with all this, it looks like he has an appointment or a place he really, REALLY wants to go to right about now.
"Alright. You stay on my good side and we won't have any problems, got it?"
The Tzimisce Primogen solemnly states, "We understand each other perfectly, Prince Antonio. I look forward to serving on the Primogen Council."
The Prince claps back, "Don't get too comfy. It's only a temporary thing, but you still pay the full price for being in. I want Galeb back and I'm gonna find out what the fuck happened to him. You're going to help me find out what the fuck happened to him."
Dr. Collins sighs, "Understood, my Prince." He turns around and begins walking away with Brock.
Brock follows the good doctor as they both get into his goofy-looking Honda. He asks the doctor to drop him off near a bar. Dr. Collins doesn't question his request and does just that.
"What, you got a date planned or something, Brock?"
Brock almost chokes on his spit, "Uh...yeah, yeah. S--Something like that, doc."
Dr. Collins faintly chuckles, "Hey, you're an adult, you don't owe me an explanation. Have fun."
Brock weakly smiles, a look of slight discomfort on his face, "Y--Yeah. Sure."
They don't really say anything to one another until the car pulls up near a bar and a rowdy group of drunks come staggering out of it.
Brock removes his seatbelt and thanks his Domitor, "Hey, listen, doc. If--if you need the cash for this entrance fee, then I could go to the ATM and--"
Dr. Collins holds out his hand, "It's alright, Brock. I'll manage. I wouldn't feel right asking you to--"
Brock cuts his master off, "But I'm your Ghoul and I--I feel devoted and loyal to you. I wanna help, doc. Really."
"I'll keep it in mind, kid. You go and enjoy yourself now. And try not to have too much to drink."
Brock playfully rolls his eyes and smiles, "OK, dad."
Brock gets out of the car and waves the good doctor goodbye. He waits till the car is out of sight. He has no intention of walking into the bar that Dr. Collins dropped him off near.
No, that's not the place where his "date" will be at. There's another underground bar a few feet away, that's where Brock's heading for.
As he approaches the bar, he's approached by a tall, gaunt man in an oversized coat, a knit beanie on his head, and sunglasses over his face. The man's wearing dark blue jeans and a pair of old boots.
Brock gives this man a sideways look, "Can I help you?"
"You heading to The Tumbleweed?" His voice is husky and dry.
The young Ghoul replies, "Yeah? Why do you ask?"
The tall man replies, "Come on in, I'll buy you a drink."
Brock politely declines, "I'm actually meeting someone there."
"Lucky guy. If he turns you down, just come over and I'll have a cocktail for you, handsome." The tall man disappears into the shadows.
Brock stands there for a few minutes and thinks, palms sweaty as ever. He swallows the nervousness building up in his throat and takes a deep breath.
The Tumbleweed is an underground gay bar. Despite being in the service of Dr. Collins for 7 years, Brock still hasn't come out as being gay.
He's been with the good doctor for that long and yet, he doesn't really feel like coming out of the closet just yet. But tonight, he wanted to, but he was interrupted. Still, a part of him, does wonder whether Dr. Collins will accept him for who he is or not.
Brock knows that his Domitor is a Presbyterian, but he has no way of knowing the full extent of his master's religious beliefs (or the lack thereof). He'll just have to see and hope for the best.
He swallows his fears and walks in to The Tumbleweed. There's a few steps leading down to a raunchy and rustic interior. The music is thumping, people (men mainly) are dancing, drinking, and hungrily making out.
It's all rather steamy in there. The lights are low, the music is high. The place has a good energy and Brock likes it.
He bops his head to the music and strides right on over to the counter. A big burly bartender with a shaved head gives the young man a warm smile.
"What can I getcha tonight?"
Brock nervously orders, "Something sweet, I--I'm not a huge drinker, hehe..."
"How 'bout a grapefruit and rose infusion with some mint and a splash of cream soda? Non-alcoholic."
"Uh...y--yeah, I'd like that. Sure."
"Comin' right up!"
The bartender's got a big grin on his face and he winks at Brock before going to make the drink.
Brock bites his lower lip and feels his crotch tingle when a hand rests on his shoulder.
"Hey, sexy." A dark-skinned man with short, frizzy hair, thick lips, a trimmed beard, and a dark suit greets the young Ghoul. He's tall and well-built, a silver watch dangling from his wrist.
Brock smiles and nods back, "Uh...Ray, right?"
Ray smiles, "Brock, right?"
Brock gestures for his date to sit down and they begin making small talk.
Ray says he's a watchmaker by trade, but he's a man of many other talents, too. He also mentions that he likes collecting records and old film reels from the 60s and 70s.
Brock talks a bit about himself. He doesn't want to get too personal, but he mentions that he ran away from his conservative, Reagan-loving parents after he came out to them.
"They didn't accept me for being...not like them. I guess."
Ray sighs and gives Brock's arm a gentle pat, "Well, at least you found your way."
"I--It's not that, Ray. I overheard them wa--wanting to send me to a fucking 'reorientation' camp or whatever it's called. It--It was pretty fucked up, man."
Brock's voice is shaky, his hands begin to tremble, "So, I--I stole whatever cash was lying around and skipped town, I haven't looked back ever since and I d--don't wanna ever go back home. I mean it. I'm done. Fuck 'em."
The watchmaker wraps a protective arm around Brock and gently rubs his shoulder. Brock sniffles a little, but he quickly composes himself.
He takes light sips from his drink and lets Ray do most of the talking.
"What brought you here, to the city, I mean?" Ray inquires, a wide smile on his face.
Brock doesn't really know what to say, but he stutters, "W--Well...it was pretty bad out there, y'know. It--It was a tough life. It IS a tough life for people like us. I was out of cash and stuck in this dump of a city."
Ray sourly chuckles, "Yeah, this place...it ain't a kind place to nobody- gay, straight, black, white, or anyone else."
I--I guess so. Not like I have a choice to up and leave..."
"Why, something holding you back, Brock?"
Brock changes the subject by raising his drink and clinking his glass against Ray's, "To...staying true to ourselves a--and each other, no matter what!"
Ray smiles and does the same, "To stayin' true!" He raises his glass and chugs it all down in 1 gulp.
Brock leans forward and puts his hand on Ray's thigh, "You uh...wanna go back to my place?"
Ray faintly laughs, "I was thinking of taking you back to mine."
The Tzimisce Ghoul suggests, "Why don't we uh...play a game of rock, paper, scissors. Best of 3."
"Sure." Ray and Brock hold up their fists and count down. On the word "scissors," they both display their hands. A draw. On the countdown for "rock," they both display paper.
The bartender watches on, amused.
On the next countdown, Brock has won the 1st round. This time, he goes for rock and Ray displays scissors. The bartender is really enjoying this. The tension and anticipation in the air is palpable.
Even some other guys in the bar curiously look on. They're curious, but they respectfully keep their distance. It's a private moment. At least, that's the vibe they get from it.
On the next round, Ray wins and the bartender cheers, "Score 1 for Ray. Oh, sorry."
Brock smirks and wins the last round. He and Ray laugh and high-five each other.
Ray has a cocky look on his face and he says, "So, where are we headed next, Brock? I'm not gonna be left high and dry. Not tonight."
Brock coyly asks, "Why, you got something to do tomorrow night?"
"Yeah. Work. I might be a watchmaker, but I sell insurance on the side- having 2 or more jobs is the norm in this goddamn city."
"Damn."
The bartender chimes in, "Tip me so I can enjoy my 1 job, heh."
Brock tosses a few coins in the bartender's tip jar. He then turns his attention back to Ray. The watchmaker is still smiling wide, looking down at Brock's hands.
He looks back up to Brock's face, "What? You got nice hands."
Brock blushes, "And you got a--a--"
Ray looks expectantly at Brock, who gulps.
"You got a nice body, OK?!" He blurts out, laughing.
The bartender is still giggling to himself as he tends to the bar and some other patrons. Brock puts his arm around Ray and they leave the bar to head to the former's place.
Brock's nerves are shot. Ray and him keep exchanging seductive, knowing glances, and Brock is a bundle of anxiety. He's still worried about how his Domitor will take it when (or if) he finds out.
Brock is also worried about Ray finding out that he's bound by Blood to a life of eternal servitude.
Meanwhile...
Dr. Collins is at his Haven, looking at his most recent bank statement. It doesn't look too good and he's beginning to have doubts about joining the Primogen Council.
He groans, "How am I gonna afford this...entrance fee? Goddamn it."
The Stoker takes off his glasses and buries his face in his cold hands, "Think, Collins. Think. I can try applying for a loan under a fake name, but I'd have to go through a bunch of red tape and stuff. It'd be risky."
He thinks a bit more, "No, that won't work. Wait!"
He heads to his landline phone and dials a number he has written down.
After a few rings, a woman's voice is heard, "Hello?"
Dr. Collins answers, "Sarah! H--Hi, um, I was wondering if--"
Dr. Sarah interrupts him, "Hey, it's good to hear you again. Heard something good happened to you recently."
Dr. Collins mumbles, "Yeah, I'm not so sure about that, Sarah. Listen, I was wondering if you're free right now--"
"Oh, no, right now's a really bad time."
Dr. Collins lowers his head, "Hmm."
Dr. Sarah sighs, "I have a lot of catching up to do with you. How 'bout I make myself free tomorrow? I don't really like talking about...these things over the phone. You never know who's listening in."
"Good point, Sarah. Yeah, come by the clinic tomorrow. We'll talk more. I hate to admit, but I'm in a tough spot here."
Dr. Sarah softly gasps, "What happened?"
"It's...like you said, this is something best discussed in-person. Goodnight, Sarah."
"Hmm, sure. 'Night, Collins!"
Dr. Collins sharply exhales. He sits in his chair and mulls over the conversation he just had with the his fellow Tzimisce.
He's got a lot to think about and he doesn't know where to begin. He thinks back to what Brock said about being ready to help him out with the entrance fee.
He's still conflicted about that. He feels bad for making his Ghoul dip into his own savings to pay for the Primogen entrance fee, but he has his reasons. He needs it more than Brock does, at least, in his eyes.
But, how would the young man feel about this?
Then again, it's not like Ghouls get much of a say in matters concerning their Domitors. Still, Dr. Collins does treat Brock far better than other Kindred treat their retainers.
He tells himself that as a way to justify his decision.
Dr. Collins decides not to think about it any further. It's getting late, so he decides to drive over to Brock's place to make the necessary arrangements.
He heads down to his car, gets in, and drives off into the night. Brock's house isn't too far off from where Dr. Collins lives, so he arrives at his destination in a few minutes.
He knocks at the door, but gets no response. He's not sure what time it is, but it's quite late and he's not too happy about it. He's desperate to get this money situation sorted out ASAP.
The good doctor rings the doorbell. Still no response. He then pounds on the door and yells out, "Brock! Brock, are you in there??"
He continues this for a few minutes, but he gets no response.
Dr. Collins looks around for a spare house key and finds 1 under the mat (how very predictable).
He opens the door and walks in. As soon as he's inside his Ghoul's foyer, a crashing sound is heard on the far end of this simple house.
Dr. Collins flinches and looks around, narrowing his eyes and readying his claws. He hears a thump from a bedroom and cautiously heads over, keeping his eyes peeled.
The bedroom is lit, so Dr. Collins slowly inches towards the doorway.
He hears a creaking noise, "B--Brock?"
Brock is shirtless and is in the middle of kissing his date when the door swings open. He leaps up in surprise and drops his date.
"D--Doctor?! WHAT THE FUCK!"
Dr. Collins's eyes dart from Brock to the man he's making out with. Ray quickly picks up his suit jacket and looks equal parts confused, equal parts horny.
"What the hell is going on here?!" he barks.
The Tzimisce Primogen's voice is calm, "Brock...I heard a noise and thought you were in trouble...I didn't--"
The young Ghoul's face is red, "So--so you busted in and--"
Ray picks up his glasses and immediately puts them on, "I'm out."
Brock protests, "No, wait! I--"
"Nope. You need to tell your dad or whoever that is to respect your goddamn privacy. See you again. Or not."
"But Ray!"
Ray places his hands on Brock's tensed shoulders, "Goodnight, Brock."
With that, Ray takes his leave. Brock stands at the front doorway, head lowered, shirt barely on. He has a hurt look on his face. He doesn't dare turn around and look at his master.
Dr. Collins gently speaks, "Brock..."
Brock looks outside, tears forming in his eyes, "I--I'm sorry, doc."
Dr. Collins says, "Come inside and we'll talk about it."
Brock gulps and shuts the front door. He lazily throws himself down on the couch. Dr. Collins sits on a bean bag across from him.
Dr. Collins begins, "Brock, I'm sorry for barging in without asking, but I'm in a tough spot here."
The young Ghoul is still silent, still a bundle of tension.
"Brock..."
Brock shakily says, "I--I'm gay, Dr. Collins. I've been meaning to tell you for a long time, but I--I didn't know how you'd react."
His breathing is erratic, "I was hoping you'd accept me, but...I don't know. I guess it was a dumb thought. I didn't know what you'd think of me."
"Brock, I have no problem with that," Dr. Collins simply states.
Brock's expression turns to one of surprise, "Wh--What? Really? It's--it's fine?"
Dr. Collins explains, "It's perfectly natural."
Brock is dumbfounded, "But y--you're a Presbyterian and--and--"
Dr. Collins interjects, "And I am also a man of science and reason. There's absolutely nothing wrong with being gay. I had a friend back in my unit who was like you and I accepted him, too. But those were different and trying times."
Brock shakily laughs, he was expecting a litany of homophobic slurs or something far worse from his vampire master, but this is not what he was expecting.
"Wow...you're--you're not mad? You're not disgusted?"
"Of course not. Why would I be?"
"Because of what we were doing and--"
Dr. Collins shakes his head, "You are an adult and you were looking to meet someone, Brock. It's none of my business and I am truly sorry for ruining your date, but this thing with the entrance fee is driving me up the wall."
The young Ghoul's shoulders slump, "It's--it's no biggie, doc. It's not like I had a chance with such a handsome guy like that anyway. Yeah, that whole entrance fee thing is nuts, doc. Like I said before: I'm ready to help you out with that."
Dr. Collins smiles, "Thanks, kid. It means a lot. But, why didn't you tell me earlier, Brock? I have been with you for the past 7 years and yet, I'm only finding this out now."
"Because I was afraid of how you'd react. I thought that you'd try to 'fix' me or some equally fucked up shit."
"No, not at all, Brock. You're a wonderful person and a great help to me. I'd never, NEVER entertain the very idea of laying a finger on you, do you understand, Brock?"
Brock sighs, "Yeah, I get it. I'm sorry, doc. I'm sorry I made assumptions about you."
"Don't be, kid. So, when you told me you ran away from your parents, was this the reason why?"
"Uh-huh. Th--they were gonna try and throw me in one of those fucking conversion camps. I wanted to keep on living, doc. I also wanted to be...me. I don't want to die or go crazy. Not yet, at least."
"I see. I'm so sorry, Brock."
Brock gets up to get himself a glass of water. He chugs it down, calms himself, and puts the glass in the sink.
"Well, I'm here and I'm not going anywhere, doc. I'm here for you and only you. I'll always be by your side."
"That's good to hear. I'm a doctor and it's in my nature to ask: are you having safe sex? I know it's a bit intrusive, but I won't judge, I promise."
Brock scratches his head, "I...I'm not, well not exactly. But, uh, I'm not in the best place, so it's kinda hard for me to meet up with guys and all that."
"Well, I won't tell you what to do, but I would say that you should get tested, Brock. It's simple and it's for your own good."
Brock softly smiles, "Sure, sure."
"I can recommend a few clinics and doctors."
"OK. Yeah."
Dr. Collins shifts his weight around the beanbag, "Anyway, I won't waste any more of your time. I need money. The most I can give from my end is $7000. I'll need you to provide the other $3000. I'm sorry if it's a big ask, but it's all I can afford. I hope you can understand, Brock."
"I'm not going to get angry. You need it, b--but I can only do $1500, doc. Rent's due and I got some utility bills I've been defaulting on for the past few weeks, heh. Welcome to F-City."
Dr. Collins reassuringly says, "That's more than enough. Thank you, Brock. I'll get the remaining $1500 from a close friend of mine."
Brock snickers, "Lemme guess: Dr. Sarah. How much do dentists make in this city, anyway?"
Dr. Collins replies, "Not enough, Brock. Not enough."
Brock derisively shakes his head, "Ah, this place. How do we actually continue to survive in a fucking place like Flimont City, anyway? Is there anything else we can do to earn some extra dough?"
"Aside from questionable activities, no, not really. Also, we're vampires, so that complicates things in unimaginable ways."
The Tzimisce Ghoul grins, "Haha. Yeah, it sure does, huh? I'll get your cash, doc."
Dr. Collins gets up and hugs his Ghoul, "I will always accept you for who you are, Brock Davies."
Brocks begins to cry on his Domitor's shoulder, "Th--Thank you, doc. That really means a lot to me. I'm glad I could come out to you and that you didn't throw me out or anything."
Dr. Collins pats his Ghoul's back, "I'd never do that, kid. Never. I've lived through 2 World Wars and seen too much to allow something as pointless as hate into my dead heart."
"I know, doc. It's just that, I was afraid of being thrown out or abandoned by you. I didn't want to leave, y'know? I'd rather be here with you, even if that meant a bunch of bullshit would come along with it."
Dr. Collins gently shushes, "Shhh, shhh. It's OK, Brock. You're a good man living in a money-hungry city that can't even spell decency."
Brock sobs and laughs, "We're here and we're alive. We'll always be here and we'll always be alive, right? G--God, I must sound so lame and pathetic right now."
Dr. Collins breaks away and wipes Brock's teary face, "No, you sound like a human being expressing perfectly normal human emotions, Brock."
Brock laughs and tries to wipe his face, but it's a bit too late for that. His master gently pushes Brock's hands away and combs his hair back.
Brock musters up a smile, "I honestly thought it'd go a million different ways after I came out to you, but this--this is not what I had in mind."
Dr. Collins warmly smiles, "I'll see you at the clinic tomorrow. I have no doubt, that soon, you will make a great plastic surgeon, and who knows, an even greater husband to some lucky guy someday."
Brock nods, "Wow. Y--Yeah. Thank you, doc. For everything." He then hugs Dr. Collins and the 2 part ways for the night.
They'll both have a lot to think about in the coming days and nights.
Back at the Sheriton Grand, Room 1408...
Markham has gathered everything he can possibly gather on LDJ and Paul Cho. Now, he dials the phone number of someone calling himself a "Donovan family expert."
This expert's name is Nicky and he picks up, sounding very sleepy and very annoyed, "Hello?"
"Is this...Nicky Schroeder?"
The Donovan family expert answers, "Do--do you even know what time it is, buddy? Who is this?"
"My name is Markham. I sent you an email regarding the Donovan family and I was wondering if you can help me out."
The expert yawns, "Oh, you're that SEC guy, right? Yeah, I specialize in some of the more...shall we say, salacious and sultry aspects of the Donovan family. A--Amongst other things, of course."
"Hmm. Can we meet?"
Nicky laughs out loud, "MEET?! Markham, do you have any idea what time it is?! Look, I don't know how long SEC employees work for, but I like to get a good 8 to 10 hours of sleep."
"I understand that, but I need some information. I need to know more about Luciano Donovan Junior."
"Jesus, that brat. Hmph, fine, we can meet at 3 in the afternoon, how's that sound?"
For reasons obvious, Markham counters, "I'm...asleep during the day. How 'bout the evening. Say...8 PM?"
Nicky sighs and groans, "7:30 PM, Markham. I'm not a night owl like you."
Markham faintly chuckles, "Hmm, fair enough. I'm staying at the Sheriton Grand. Room 1408."
Nicky whistles, "Damn, that's a dope place. Sure, I'll meet you there."
He hesitates for a few moments before correcting himself, "Actually, let's meet at the bar. If you're gonna make me talk about LDJ, I'm gonna need the drinks to keep coming in."
"I understand. I'll meet you there at 7:30 PM. Thanks for your help, Mr. Schroeder."
"Just--just call me Nicky. Sure. See ya." He hangs up and goes back to sleep.
Markham gets up from his chair and pats his backside, his body feeling a tad bit sore and tired from being seated for the past few hours.
He opens the door to his room and takes a look around the hotel's hallway. It's quiet and dimly lit, but there's a few people here and there, checking in and out.
There's some employees doing the obligatory room service on a room that has recently been vacated. The Sheriton Grand's rooms are cleaned thoroughly by its devoted (and often underpaid and mistreated) staff.
The room looks like a mess, with broken bottles, party streamers, and the like strewn around. Markham can't help but think that this room will have a hell of a time being cleaned up and repaired.
The Baali's thoughts are interrupted by the sound of a woman's voice.
He turns around and sees Sheriff Velma waltzing over. She has this sort of je ne sais quoi aura about her that Markham can't quite put his finger on.
"What are you doing here, Sheriff?" he asks.
Sheriff Velma's voice is low, "What do you mean, 'what are you doing here'? I'm here to check on you and make sure you're all settled in. Let's go inside and talk."
Markham points to the elevator, "I was actually planning on heading out."
Sheriff Velma smirks, "Then, I'll come with you. You're not going to shake me off that easily, Baali."
He takes the elevator down, leaves the lobby, and takes a walk to a local tech store, Sheriff Velma sharply and keenly watching him like a hawk every step of the way.
On the way to the store, the Sheriff initiates the conversation, "So, how's work?"
Markham vaguely answers, "Going good."
"Still not in the mood to tell us why you're here or who it is you're investigating?"
Markham sighs and pushes the door to the tech store open. The bell jingles, alerting the clerk at the counter of the presence of new customers.
The Middle Eastern man has a big grin on his face when he spots Sheriff Velma, "Hey, Ms. DuPont! Been a while, huh? Do you need another set of burner phones, again?"
The Sheriff's lips curl into a smile, "Hi, Farooq. Yeah, I need a few more. You can charge my card, right?"
"Of course! And who is this, a friend?"
Markham shrugs, "Yeah. I guess."
This is a simple tech store, brightly lit, slightly grimy floor, shelves upon shelves of electronics and software products, and the clerk's face plastered with a big smile.
Farooq approaches the Baali and holds out his hand, "Hi! I'm Farooq!"
"Markham," he extends his cold hand to the clerk, who shakes it with vigorous enthusiasm and twitches at how unnaturally cold it is.
Sheriff Velma steps in, "Hey, Farooq, could you show us a few things?"
The clerk's smile gets even bigger, "Sure! Anything for my most valued customer!"
He takes her to shelf full of CDs and DVDs, "I think you'll like this, Ms. DuPont. I got these at a very reasonable price. I know you like your music very much and this...THIS, is an album from a very, very, very special musician."
Markham has an amused look on his face as he listens to the 2 talk. Sheriff Velma decides to go with the flow and humor the clerk.
Farooq shows her the greatest hits of a rock star named Burt. He talks to her about his favorite tracks, the ones that he says are his absolute favorites.
Markham narrows his eyes and walks over to the duo. He takes another copy of the album, glances at the back, and puts it back on the shelf.
Sheriff Velma asks, "Are you a fan of Burt, Markham?"
Markham feigns ignorance, "Who is he?"
Farooq answers, "The greatest rock star who never was, my friend. An unrecognized, unappreciated, and unknown legend."
Without cue, Farooq goes on, an excited look all over his face, "Unfortunately, he dropped off the scene after the 1970s. Ever since then, no one has heard from him."
Sheriff Velma dryly asks, "Really?"
Farooq eagerly nods, "Really! Rumors suggest that he died of an overdose, others claim that he was kidnapped by aliens, and still others claim that he faked his death and is now a powerful politician living in South America. I like the 2nd one the best, personally."
Sheriff Velma laughs and pats Farooq's back, "I'm sure you do, Farooq."
Markham's eyes linger on that album cover. It features an airbrushed image of Burt, shredding and riffing on his shiny chrome-red guitar.
Burt has long, straight hair that goes down to his back. He has a wild look in his amber eyes. The rock star is wearing a leopard print button-down shirt, dark jeans, a necklace with a pentagram, and a few other trinkets hanging from his neck.
Farooq's still rambling on, "I'm a big fan of the album, of course. I've been listening to it even before I came to America; that's how much this man's music has touched me!"
Markham remains entranced and silent, his look laser-focused on the man on the album cover.
Sheriff Velma squints at Markham but doesn't say anything. She asks Farooq, "What else do you know about Burt?"
Farooq laughs, "I know he had a reputation for eh...sleeping with his groupies. Of--of course, it was all consensual and everyone was far above the age of 18. There are some older fans, men and women, who fondly recall the days when Burt was their lover and musical idol."
Farooq smiles, his voice growing hoarse, "I idolized the man. A--And I still do. What I would give to--to shake his hand and--and tell him how much his music means to me, you know?"
Markham remains silent, his gaze transfixed on that musical album. He drowns out what Farooq is saying and a memory begins to resurface in his mind.
His ears are ringing, his senses are dulled. There's the sound of a guitar being repeatedly riffed and strummed on, over and over and over again. There's also the sound of his own monstrous screams, as well as those of others around him.
He sees the others screaming and lunging forward, in a state of vicious Frenzy, blood practically dripping from their mouths.
There's Burt on the makeshift stage, the area around them is dry and empty grassland. Burt's sweating blood profusely and he's still playing on that guitar, even as he his surrounded and swarmed by so many Frenzying Kindred.
He remains cool, calm, and collected. He shreds at his guitar with the vigor and power of a 1000 angry demons, he plays and plays, even as a horde of Frenzied vampires close in on him.
Markham was there that very night...
His mind begins to feel hazy and distant. Sheriff Velma places her hand on Markham's shoulder and squeezes it slightly, causing the Baali to snap out of whatever traumatic trance he was in.
He snaps back into reality and looks around, bewildered and taken aback.
Farooq is still going on and on, but Markham doesn't hear him. Sheriff Velma looks back at Farooq and waves him goodbye.
Markham does the same and follows the Ventrue Sheriff out of the store.
She asks, "You OK, Markham? It looks like you completely blanked out back there."
"Huh? Oh. Yeah. I'm fine. F--Fine." His tone reflects how shaken he really is.
She looks at him from head to toe, "Where are we heading to next?"
"I--I was thinking of going alone. I need to clear my head. It's work."
The Sheriff asks, "Is that all it is? No play, no special friend or love interest back home?"
"No. Why?"
"It's the Sheriff's job to know. Especially since you're not telling me the truth."
"What is that supposed to mean?"
"What's this about, Markham? It looks like you had some kind of a flashback back in Farooq's store."
Markham picks up the pace, "It's--it was nothing. Just something I forgot to take care of. Goodnight, Sheriff."
Sheriff Velma is more than able to keep up with his brisk pace, "What happened back in there, Markham?"
"It's nothing."
"It didn't look like 'nothing' to me, sugar."
The Baali stops and looks at the Sheriff, "Why are you so insistent about it, Sheriff? WHY?!" he almost growls at her.
"Because I want to know. It's my job, Markham. Tell me. Now."
Markham's expression turns from angry to cold, "Fine. It's about Burt."
"Who? That washed-up rock star? What about him?"
Markham bluntly proclaims, "He's my Sire. He's the man who turned me. The one who made me what I am, th--the one who saved me from--from--"
He just can't bring himself to complete his statement.
Sheriff Velma is stunned silent for a moment. She quickly recovers, "What? Him? Really?"
"What reason would I have to lie to you, huh? Burt is Baali and he--he didn't just turn me--"
Markham's voice gets shaky and his hands start to tremble, "He...Re-Embraced me."
Sheriff Velma's expression goes from surprised, to shocked, and finally, to horrified. Her eyes dart from Markham's face to his hands.
Markham continues, "He--He took me away from the animals, the bastards who had initially turned me and--and--I..."
"How did he do it?"
Markham pauses, his lips quivering, his hands shaking, his voice shaky, "Why did he Re-Embrace me, y--you mean?"
"What were you before being turned into a Baali?"
Markham responds, "The Baali are the only ones who can Re-Embrace a Kindred. No one else has that...power."
"Hmm, yes, true. I know that, but WHAT were you before being a Baali?"
Markham sighs, "I don't like talking about it. Don't make me go through those h--horrible memories again. I try to bury 'em as deep as possible and go on with my Unlife and work at the SEC."
Sheriff Velma respects his wishes, "Yes, if your pained and traumatic expression is anything to go by, then it's understandable why you wouldn't wish to speak about such things."
"Then why push me?"
"I'm the Sheriff and I am under an unbelievable amount of pressure here. You have no idea what it's like to run a Domain with a population of over a million people."
Markham straightforwardly says, "Hmm. I'm not here to get myself involved in all of that- it's your problem...and Prince Antonio's."
Sheriff Velma leaves him with some parting advice, "Careful now. This city can eat you up and spit you out in the same night. Remember that. Be on your toes, Demon Worshipper. We're always watching."
"Yeah, yeah. Goodnight, Sheriff Velma."
"Goodnight, darling."
Markham takes a long walk around the busy block. Even at this time of night, the streets are quite lively and the sidewalks are busy.
There's a few homeless folk warming their hands near a big fiery barrel. They're shivering and the look on their faces is that of pure desperation and hopelessness.
There's also some young kids hanging out and trying to look all tough and cool. They look tough, but they're no match for the kind of predatory prowess Markham's body carries.
Anyway, it's not like Markham is interested in picking a fight with a bunch of angsty teenagers. He'd like to think that he's better than that, and even though his mind and body are in an above-perfect form, he doesn't like hurting people.
There are a few more mortals and Kindred out on the dark and crumbling streets of Flimont City. Some are clearly lost, others are looking for trouble, and a select few are simply looking for someone to bite into.
In time, Markham goes back up to his hotel room. He throws himself on the bed and looks up at the ceiling, his thoughts a jumble of trauma and pain.
He didn't expect a memory from that bleak night to be triggered when he saw his Sire's music album cover. His ears are ringing again. He's not sure how to cope with it, or if he'll ever find a way.
For now, he suppresses the worst of it and prepares to be taken in by the sleep of the day. He has a meeting tomorrow evening, after all.
Markham closes his eyes and drifts off as the sun begins its grand ascent. There will be no more bad memories or unwanted flashbacks, thank whomever.
And, with that, the rest of the Kindred in this metropolis begin to give in to the pulling weight of the rising sun. The night is over and they will have to rest another day away before they are once again permitted to go about their nocturnal Unlives.
Chapter 5: The Pym Reaper
The sun is up and it relentlessly shines its rays down upon the city. The mortals are wide awake, the Kindred are fast asleep. This is how things usually go, and how they will be expected to go for time eternal.
Luciano Donovan Junior is back at his large home. It's painted white, has floor to ceiling windows, French doors, and overlooks the entire city from an exclusive neighborhood.
It's a far cry from the humble abode that someone like Brock lives in.
It originally belonged to Luciano Donovan Senior. He's the one who had architects and interior decorators from abroad design and furnish this home. It's been in the Donovan family's possession for quite some time now.
Luciano gets out of bed, completely naked, his junk proudly hanging there and swaying about. He's in a good mood today and he's got a smile on his face as he puts on a silk bathrobe.
The cocky Junior Donovan walks out onto the balcony and surveys the city below him.
"I own this city," he tells himself (as part of his daily morning affirmation ritual).
He continues, "I am this city. I'm Luciano-fucking-Donovan and I am the law. I'm the most powerful and richest fucking man in the city!"
He shuts his eyes and takes a few deep breaths, in and out, in and out. He stretches his hands out and aggressively roars, as if attempting to assert dominance over the city and all its denizens.
Luciano opens his eyes, takes 1 last look at the city, and then heads back inside his room. He takes an icy cold shower (of course he does) and then heads downstairs.
He carelessly pours a lot of cereal (Froot Loops) into a large porcelain bowl. He covers it with milk and grabs a golden spoon.
As he's munching away, a call comes in. Luciano sees who it is and picks up. With his mouth full of cereal, he says, "Eyy, the Pym Reaper! Wazzup, Gordon?"
Gordon Pym is LDJ's fixer and attorney. He's the kinda guy rich cats call when they "accidentally" kill a prostitute and want to sweep it under the rug.
He's the sorta guy you can count on to pull some strings and make certain problems go away. He's the kinda guy who can also help you set up an LLC and offshore trust in order to launder money.
Gordon's voice is gruff and hoarse, "Luciano. You awake?"
"Fuck I am, Gordon! What's new?"
Gordon bluntly says, "Your financials look good. Almost too good."
"Of course they do! I'm a goddamn fucking genius when it comes to that sorta shit!"
"Hmph. Well, whatever you did just landed you a hefty 3 million dollars."
Luciano spits out his cereal and his eyes nearly bulge out of his sockets, "You--you're shitting me, right?"
Gordon dryly says, "Do I ever 'shoot the shit', Luciano?"
LDJ quickly grabs his laptop and checks. He gasps when he sees the lines and figures, "Holy motherfucking shit! You're right, Gordon! Hahaha! HAHAHA!"
The lawyer asks, "Where did all this come from?"
Luciano's mind goes back to his golden goose: Mauve Lilac. Whatever she did (and however she did it) has paid off, big time.
He replies, "It's just good old fashioned business, Gordon. It's what my father would've done, if you catch my drift."
Gordon snickers, "Yeah. I wasn't born yesterday. I'm your friend here, Luciano. You need to be straight with me- WHERE. DID. THE. MONEY. COME. FROM?"
Luciano nervously chuckles, "Yo, why don't--why don't we uh...meet?"
"I'm already arriving at your front door. You know these kinds of amounts get flagged...by the SEC and the IRS. We need to talk about that, too."
"Y--Yeah, sure, sure thing Gordo. Um...what are we gonna do about the SEC? Paul said they sent someone here to investigate or whatever, but I ain't seen or heard jackshit."
"They're probably biding their time, waiting for the right opportunity to strike."
"Well, how we dealin' with that?"
Gordon grimly says, "I have a plan. It's just 1 guy. We'll discuss more when I get there. And, please, Luciano, put some fucking clothes on. I don't need to or want to see your...thing. Again."
Luciano laughs out loud, "Hahaha! OK, Gordon, you got it. See ya." He hangs up and excitedly dances around his house. He runs upstairs and gets dressed.
He wears a light gray suit, moccasins, no socks, and a golden Fossil watch that his dad got him for his 18th birthday. LDJ tugs on his suit, grins at himself in the mirror, and heads downstairs.
Luciano waits for his fixer to show up. He can't help but wonder how Gordon managed to learn about this so quickly. Gordon is always on top of things, so it's not entirely unsurprising that he'd wanna talk to LDJ about the recent developments.
Luciano doesn't dwell on this and is soon greeted by Gordon's arrival. The middle-aged man looks sharp in his dark suit, black shoes, and his silver-framed eyeglasses.
His cravat is a deep shade of red and silky smooth. His hair is neatly parted and his face is wrinkled but refined. He's a man with a mission, one who is not to be trifled with.
"Hey, Gordon. What's the haps?" Luciano says.
Gordon's tone is cold, "Let's go somewhere private."
Luciano sighs and shrugs. He ushers his attorney to a room in the basement. It's basically a mancave with lounge sofas, a bong, a foosball table, and a few game consoles hooked up to large TVs.
"How are we going to deal with the SEC?" Gordon bluntly asks.
"Well, what can we do?" LDJ replies.
Gordon's tone is firm and direct, "They sent 1 guy, so we kill him."
Luciano almost chokes on his spit when he hears this. His expression changes from that of a confident, cocky brat, to that of a worried, frightened boy.
"Yo, wha-whaddya mean, Gordo?"
Gordon throws a brown file folder on the pool table, "Open it. Read it."
Luciano complies and begins, "Name: Markham Reed. Age: 43. Sex: Male. SEC Enforcement Investigator."
Gordon shakes his head, "I don't know, but we need to take care of him. Something about this guy stinks. I've been up all night looking into this Markham Reed. The only match I got doesn't make any sense."
Luciano puts the file down, "What do you mean by that?"
Gordon paces around, a look of worry on his hard and unrelenting face, "You know how there are some people who can't be tracked down, Luciano?"
"Yeah."
"Well, your SEC guy is 1 of those people...1 of many."
Luciano thinks out loud, "Maybe it's some kinda ID theft thing?"
"No. This...is Markham Reed, alright, but something about him feels..." Gordon trails off and stares into the distance, as if the wall will suddenly reveal an answer.
"...wrong."
Luciano's confused, "Huh? what do you mean 'wrong'?"
Gordon's lips curl, his eyes narrow, his voice gets lower, "Something's not right about this guy, Luciano. Taking him out is what we gotta do. I've got a guy, but he's a little pricey."
"How much?"
Gordon looks at LDJ with a look of seriousness, "$60,000. All cash. He's a veteran of the First Gulf War and he has no problems killing Federal Government employees. Hell, rumor is he offed a few kids back in '97."
Luciano's voice cracks a bit, "What d--did you just say, Gordon?"
Gordon repeats himself, "I said, he killed a bunch of kids. That's not our problem, anyway. Point is: he's legit, he's got a solid track record, and he's no amateur. We should use him."
Luciano's voice trembles, "Y--Yeah. OK. Use him. Go ahead. Send him out. I'll wire the money."
Gordon takes out his bulky cellular phone, dials a number, and makes the call.
He taps his foot on the ground and waits. Luciano has a bewildered and stunned look on his face, he's still trying to comprehend what Gordon just told him.
The lawyer puts the phone down and turns his attention to LDJ, "It's done. The hitter will get rid of the SEC guy tonight...1 AM."
Luciano snaps out of it, "T--that quick?"
"Yes," Gordon plainly answers.
Luciano gulps a few times and lets out a shaky sigh, "OK. OK. Yeah, yeah, let's do it. We--We'll get the SEC off our backs and be done with it."
Gordon puts his phone away and says, "Don't worry, Luciano. The hitter's solid. Besides, it's only 1 government schlub against a trained killer. You're in good and capable hands here."
"Y--yeah. You're right, Gordon. Yeah. This is all good. This is great, this...is great. Everything is under control. I'll wire you the m--money later, Gordon. For now, can we go get something to eat?"
Gordon points to the side of his mouth, "You got a little milk there, Luciano."
Luciano quickly wipes his mouth, "Ah, fuck! Haha! Yeah, we better head out. We got some celebrating to do, don't we?"
"You sure do. Congratulations, Luciano. You're finally doing your dad proud. You should call him."
Luciano laughs, "You know what, Gordo, I think I'll do that."
Gordon nods and smiles, "That's my boy."
The 2 men leave the mansion and head out to a fancy steakhouse. On the way, LDJ picks up his best friend.
Paul is busy watering his plants, wearing nothing but his boxers which have prints of hearts on them.
When he spots the Mercedes Benz, he grins and puts down the hose. Luciano runs up to Paul and excitedly says, "3 MILLION BUCKS, man! 3-fucking-million bucks!!!"
Paul's eyes nearly bulge out, his jaw drops, and his expression becomes one of total and utter shock. He's in disbelief, "You're kidding."
"I'm not! Looks like our golden goose is really laying some golden eggs, man! Haha! How's your end going, huh?"
Paul is still reeling from the news and has trouble finding the words, "W--Wow. Uh...oh shit, I think I need a--a little...y'know."
Paul bolts to the bathroom to take a celebratory sniff of some fine cocaine, he snorts an extra-long line of white powder, and comes out feeling like a million bucks.
LDJ and Gordon are waiting for him. The lawyer has a slight grimace on his face.
Gordon greets Paul, "Mr. Cho. Keeping yourself out of trouble, I assume?"
Paul playfully shoves Gordon, "The Pym Reaper. What are you doing here? I thought you'd be masterminding a hostile takeover or some shit."
Gordon's tone remains cold and detached, "I was merely offering legal counsel to my client here."
That's...1 way to say you hired a hitman to take care of a Federal Government employee (who happens to be a vampire).
"Haha. You guys going to breakfast or something?" Paul asks.
LDJ grins, "We're celebrating, P-Money. Let's go to the steakhouse. Y'know, the one with the gold-sprinkles on the meat, hot waitresses, and the bottomless mimosas."
Paul's grin widens, "Hell yeah! Ah, hell yeah!!"
Gordon taps a few inches above his upper lip, "You got a little sugar on your nose there, Mr. Cho."
"Oh. Oh, shit. Yeah, haha! Sorry, I was just a little...you know."
Gordon sighs, "Yes, Mr. Cho. We know all too well. Get dressed."
Paul sighs and goes off to get ready. Once Paul's out of earshot, Gordon remarks, "You know, Luciano, you really should do something about his cocaine habit."
Luciano clicks his tongue and dismissively waves his hand, "It's a mild habit, Gordon. Paul tells me it helps him take the edge off; it keeps him focused and ready."
Gordon grunts, "'Mild' my ass. Don't do it because you care about him, do something about it before it becomes too much of a liability...for you."
"Relax, Gordo. Nothing's gonna happen to P-Money. C'mon, you know how he is. If anything, the blow is the only thing keepin' him alive at this point, ahahahaha!"
Gordon's gaze is intense and fiery, "Hmph. But if I have to fish his body out a river before the cops show up, I'm charging extra."
Luciano plainly shrugs, "I can afford the Pym Reaper's retainer fee."
The 2 men share a short laugh and then Paul shows up, sporting a bright and happy grin. He's got a nice dress shirt and jeans on, he's also wearing some nice leather loafers.
"Ta-da!" he says, twirling around and striking a few poses.
Luciano claps, "That's my boy. Now, c'mon, let's celebrate!"
The 3 men hop into the Mercedes Benz and drive off, the sun as bright and hot as ever. The traffic at this time of day will be immense, so the trio prepare for a long, long trip to the restaurant.
Paul is as fidgety and twitchy as ever, he's drumming his fingers on the dashboard, playing with the air-conditioner, and flipping through the radio. He's almost too jittery.
Gordon snaps, "Will you stop that, already?!"
Paul looks back at Gordon who's got the backseat all for himself, legs spread out. Paul weakly smiles and says nothing.
Gordon frowns, "Splash some water in your face. The colder the better."
Paul gulps, "I'll keep tha--that in mind, Mr. Pym. Thank you."
"Hmph."
After a few minutes of awkward silence amongst dense traffic, Luciano pipes up, "So, Gordon, tell me more about this hitter."
Gordon's expression changes from neutral to icy and severe, "I'm not comfortable discussing details in front of strangers, Mr. Donovan."
Paul cluelessly cuts in, "What hitter? Baseball? Y--you a fan, Mr. Pym?"
Luciano scoffs, "Hey, Gordon. Paul here's my fuckin' best buddy. Anything you wanna say to me, you can say to him and IN FRONT OF HIM."
Gordon shrugs, "Well, it's the client's wish. I take it you know that the SEC is investigating you wonder boys, correct?"
Paul nods, "Yup. What about it?"
Gordon dryly states, "That will no longer be a problem going forward. Keep an eye out for the news tomorrow morning. I'd imagine it'd read something along the lines of: 'SEC employee found dead in hotel room.'"
"What? Really?!" Paul excitedly exclaims. He turns around, his sweaty face all smiles, "Gordon, my man, that is fuckin' awesome!! So--so, who is this hitter you've got uh...hitting for us? How much did you pay them?"
Paul sweats even more, "I--I want to meet them!" His eyes are filled with eagerness and anticipation, "Where did you find them, Gordo?"
"The less you both know, the better. Plausible deniability and all that crap."
Paul shrugs and turns to LDJ, "Wow, so she came through, huh? Fuckin' Mauve Lilac really is a golden goose, huh? She really is. I mean, 3 million bucks! What an absolute deal!"
Gordon inquires, "Who's this Mauve Lilac? What kind of a ridiculous name is that? Is it a porn thing, is that what you 2 wonder boys are doing these days? Smut?"
Luciano laughs and takes a sharp right turn, almost losing control of the Mercedes, "Gordon, Gordon, Gordon! Slow down, my man, you'll have us all dead before you can have your coffee. No, Gordo, Mauve Lilac is a woman who works for me."
Gordon straightens up and leans forward, "Really? How come I haven't heard anything about this until now?"
"That's because she's a secret. MY secret," Luciano smugly answers.
Paul adds, "Yeah, Luciano here puts her up in the goddamn Prairie Ridge. In exchange, she keeps our finances on point. She's also retarded."
Gordon's face scrunches in confusion, "The fuck are you sniffing, Paul? Luciano, what is the meaning of all of this? I didn't even know you had this arrangement. How long has it been going on for?"
Luciano casually responds, "About 2 months now. Look, it's no biggie. I give my golden goose a nice place to lay her golden eggs. It's a win-win situation for all of us."
Gordon contemplatively nods, "I see." He pauses for a bit, as if to process everything that's been said.
After a moment of thinking, he says, "So, how does this...golden goose lay these golden eggs?"
Luciano chuckles, "You wouldn't believe it, man! Even Paul here is still reeling from how she makes her magic, am I right, P-Money?"
Paul has a far-off look in his eyes, his fingers playing with the air conditioning vent. "Yeah, man. Yeah. It--it's fucking crazy."
Gordon leans back and raises his chin, "Amuse me."
LDJ and Paul Cho take haphazard turns explaining how Mauve does her thing. By the end of it all, Gordon is even more confused and taken aback by the entire arrangement.
"Is this how you've been keeping your finances so healthy and in the green? A woman who talks to fucking numbers?!"
"That...pretty much sums it up, yep," Paul answers, not really sure what to think of the whole thing.
Mr. Cho stammers, "But she's fucking retarded. I mean, who the fuck says shit like, 'The number is clearly in your favor. I repeat: the number is clearly in your favor.'"
Luciano chimes in, "Look, I don't care if she talks to Buddha's feet, she's gonna make us rich and that's what matters. We GOTTA have someone like her in our corner."
Gordon firmly advises, "I want her to sign an NDA."
Luciano snickers and gives his attorney a smug look through the rearview mirror, "I'm not 6, OK? Besides, when I found her, she was poor as fuckin' dirt. She's got nowhere else to go, nowhere to run or hide, I own her ass now."
Paul looks back at Gordon, "Yeah, she's desperate, man. You can see it in her crazy eyes. She'd probably suck your cock if--"
Gordon lets out an exasperated sigh, "You should never, ever, ever, ever trust some bum from off the streets, Luciano! I thought your dad taught you better than this!"
Luciano tsks, "Tsk. He ain't here, is he? He's too busy ramming every chick in the fucking Cayman Islands."
Gordon sighs, "Nevertheless, this...woman, is NOT to be trusted. She's a bum, did you even run a background check on her?!"
"Oh, please! Background check, schmackground check," Luciano counters, his tone mocking and dismissive.
The Pym Reaper glowers at his top client, "I'm being serious here, Luciano. This is no joke."
"You're one to talk. You got a hitter and you don't even know who he is."
Gordon slams his hands on his knees, "Well, I was in the business long before you were born, or do you need reminding of that?"
Paul cuts in, "So? We're new money, dude. It's how we do things- on the cutting edge, kicking ass, living large, and partying hard."
Luciano shrugs, "Paul is right, Gordon. You're gettin' too old for this shit. You just stick to getting rid of dead hookers and burying people in paperwork. Let the youngins have the fun, all right?"
He turns around, "It's a new goddamn century- it's time for some fresh and new blood, heh."
"Hmph."
The traffic clears up after a few more miles of driving. Eventually, they find a parking spot and then head inside the fancy restaurant.
It's a posh and upscale steakhouse located a few miles west of the financial district. It's a classy and gaudy establishment, the type that has the fanciest of cocktails and serves some of the most expensive and mouth-watering meat on the planet.
The building is a fusion of rustic and contemporary Y2K aesthetics. The outside of the establishment is mostly made out of exposed brick. The interior is full of shiny wooden tables, plush chairs, and artificial potted plants.
The front bar is a large rectangle made up of stone and wood. The restaurant is called: "The Heartland Grill And Bar". The logo out front shows a generic-looking cowboy feller waving his hat and riding a horse into the sunset.
They head into the steakhouse and are greeted by an attractive older woman, wearing a skimpy outfit, her boobs pushed up by her tight top.
"Howdy, gentlemen! My name is Lily. Table for 3? Here, let me escort you hungry boys to your table."
LDJ pulls out a card and hands it to the lady, "I'm a member, so I get a 20% discount, right?"
The lady gives his golden membership card a once over and beams, "'Course, darling! Right this way!"
She leads the trio to their VIP table, a nice booth near the window, one where the lights are dim and the ambiance is relaxed.
Paul Cho sits down, next to the window. He's sweating profusely and can't keep his hands still.
"All right, gentlemen," the woman says, "Your server will be here shortly, in the meantime, lemme take your drink orders."
LDJ grins, "Make mine a Tequila Sunrise. I'm celebrating today."
Lily politely inquires, "Oh, happy birthday, Mr. Donovan?"
Luciano is about to tell her what he's really celebrating, but Gordon clears his throat and shoots his young and brash client a stern glance that says all that needs to said without words.
Gordon gives Lily his order, "I'd like an Irish Car Bomb, please."
Lily's eyebrows shoot up, "Oooooh, you're a bold one, sir."
She looks at Paul and queries, "And what would you like, sir?"
Paul's leg is shaking, his hands are trembling, his heartrate is high. He's sweating like a pig and he has a look in his eyes that no one really wants to see.
He can barely speak, let alone get any cogent words out, "Uh...um...I want--I want some co--"
Luciano quickly steps in, awkwardly laughing, "He'll take a glass of cold water."
Lily smiles and goes to bring these 3 men their drinks. Gordon looks around the restaurant, taking in the sights and sounds of this posh and fancy place.
He grumbles, "I'm gonna get Mauve's signature when I get back, Mr. Donovan, don't you doubt that. I'm doing this for your own good."
Luciano shrugs, "What the hell, sure. Maybe I might throw a celebration at Mauve's joint later this evening, hmm? Paul, you in?"
Paul bluntly asks, "W--Will your buddies be bringing the--the coke. I--I need it, man."
Gordon shakes his head in disdain and grimaces at Paul's erratic behavior, "Jesus Christ."
Paul defensively puts his hands up, "Hey, man. It's not so bad. I--I got this. It's a mild thing, OK? It's mild. M-I-L-D. Mild. I like to think of myself as a high-functioning...err...addict, heh."
Gordon sharply exhales and begins going through the menu. He tugs at his cravat a few times and doesn't make much in the way of small talk.
Luciano and Paul, on the other hand, are already deciding on how to multiply their 3 million bucks into 9 million, then 15 million, and so on.
The 2 wealthy young men are about as intelligent as Paul's drug of choice, but with Mauve's help, their dreams and ambitions of being obscenely rich are slowly becoming a reality. Their wealth is becoming a reality. They're about to make it big, the type of big that makes the local and national news.
And attracts the attention of the IRS, the SEC, and so on.
Of course, Gordon would like to think that Markham is just an average mortal government employee. But, the hitman would soon find out that that which is already dead cannot be so easily killed.
Lily returns, a black tray in her hand, "Sorry, gentlemen, the chef's been slowed down by the lunch rush. I hope you understand."
Gordon says, "Of course. It's a busy day."
He takes his Irish Car Bomb, LDJ gets his Tequila Sunrise, and Paul has his glass of ice-cold water.
"All right," Lily says, "Let me know if you need anything. Cheers, boys!" She then disappears back into the kitchen.
As time goes on, the trio order food. The Pym Reaper goes in for some medium-rare steak with a side of fries, and a drizzling of some special balsamic basting sauce.
LDJ orders some smoked baby back ribs with a side of coleslaw. Paul, however, orders a simple cheese burger with extra bacon, along with cheesy jalapeo fries and a thick strawberry shake.
While waiting for their meals to arrive, they continue their lively and carefree chit-chat. Gordon nods along and reminds his client (and his client's friend) about matters pertaining to discretion, confidentiality, insurance, and the like.
The restaurant begins to fill up with customers, all financial industry-looking types. Luciano and Paul recognize many, if not all of these people.
They're either stockbrokers, day traders, hedge fund managers, investors, or people for whom Gordon Gekko's mantra of greed being good is their sole philosophy.
The beginning and the end of their raison d'tre.
The restaurant itself is a conglomeration of jolly, upscale people with varying degrees of success, money, and power. The restaurant is filled to the brim with the kind of people that Luciano and Paul are familiar with...in more ways than 1.
All of these folks are dressed in sharp, tailored suits, shirts, and ties, they all seem to have serious and stern faces and grim expressions.
Gordon, meanwhile, looks like the epitome of an attorney. His expression remains intense and smiling is not something he does very often, except to a select few of his clients and in certain circumstances.
Luciano openly tells some of his other buddies about his latest win. The restaurant erupts into a loud, rowdy clamor as people chat with one another, eat, drink, and laugh.
Once the trio are done sating their appetites, the bill comes in. This place is no hash house, so it all comes up to a grand total of $10,900 (plus taxes and whatever).
Luciano takes care of the entire bill, despite Paul's insistence that he pays for his part of it. LDJ refuses and instead suggests that Paul show up for tonight's party at Mauve's Haven.
He even promises to bring some blow for Paul to bury his beak in and get him through the evening. This seems to be enough to placate Mr. Cho.
"You're th--the man," Paul says, giving his friend a bro hug.
Gordon watches on, wordless and unspeaking. He's got a far-off look in his eyes, the kind of look you'd give someone if you've just watched them stick a tarantula up their ass.
LDJ looks at his fixer, "Hey, Pym Reaper? Come by my golden goose's nest this evening. We'll have us a fun-ass shindig, maybe get you to meet some fine-ass chicks, get high, drunk, and end it all with a BANG!"
Gordon's grim expression doesn't change, "As much as I'd love that, I do have other obligations."
LDJ scoffs, "Oh, come on, man. N--Not even a stopover?"
Gordon remains unyielding, "I also have to make sure that the hitter follows through with his task."
Luciano and Paul try to reassure Gordon, but his stern expression remains as he stands up from the table, his lunch completely scrubbed.
He says, "Enjoy your party, Mr. Donovan."
He barely acknowledges the other guy, "Mr. Cho. Try not to...inhale too much. I'd hate for anything bad to happen to the man who's been my client's best friend since childhood. Good day."
He puts his dark sunglasses on, snaps his briefcase shut, and disappears from sight.
Gordon's already outside, getting into a taxi he called for. The driver seems to know the man well enough to not be startled by the Pym Reaper.
He stops at a payphone, pulls out some coins, and starts to dial a number he has committed to memory. He waits for the caller on the other end to pick up. He waits and he waits some more.
"Mr. Pym. A pleasant surprise," a male's voice answers, calm, composed, and cool. A voice that has a hint of foreignness in its inflection, yet it's also unmistakably American.
Gordon's tone is low and steady, "I'm calling to make sure my money is being put to good use."
The man on the other end confidently declares, "Markham Reed will be dead by tomorrow."
"I need to know more about the hitter."
"A partial dossier is under the bench a few meters away from you, Mr. Pym."
Gordon narrows his eyes and sees the scratched and shaky bench.
The other guy inhales and exhales, "Will that be all, Mr. Pym? I only agreed to this call because your reputation precedes you."
"Hmph, yes. Thank you."
"Have a pleasant day, my good sir." The call ends and Gordon goes to retrieve the folder. The dossier is black with the word "CLASSIFIED" in bright, white letters plastered in front of it.
He gets back in the cab and commands the driver, "Drive."
The Pym Reaper reads it, and then nods, satisfied.
The hitter's name is Daniel Percy. He's a veteran of the First Gulf War. He served for a few months and saw some heavy action. He was honorably discharged for reasons he keeps to himself.
He's in his 30s and is currently single with no living family or friends. He does freelance hits and it seems his kill rate is over 95.97% for all his contracts, but none have been traced back to him.
The dossier even boasts about him killing an entire family, no survivors. A man, his pregnant wife, and 2 small children- all shot in the back of the head with a silenced pistol.
The cops couldn't solve it and chalked it up to a home invasion gone wrong. It remains an unsolved mystery. Gordon thinks that's interesting, if nothing else.
It shows that this hitman knows his dirty business and does his dastardly homework.
He closes the dossier and throws his head back, the hot sun pouring down on him and his vehicle. He shuts his eyes and falls into a short but uneasy nap, occasionally interrupted by a few bumps on the road.
Back at The Heartland Grill And Bar, LDJ and P-Money are slamming mimosas like no one's business. They're already well on their way to getting drunk as they start ordering another round of drinks...for everybody present!
This costs another $2000, plus taxes, but neither guy minds it, their money is only getting bigger and bigger thanks to Mauve's efforts.
Speaking of, Luciano stands up on a table and wildly announces, "The Prairie Ridge! Thi--this evening! 3rd floor, everyone of you fuckin' animals are invited! It's gonna be a big-ass, fat-ass, crazy-ass, long-ass party!"
He waves his drink around, spilling some alcohol on his expensive suit, but he doesn't give a fuck.
The others erupt in cheers of jubilation as LDJ hops off the table and has some more mimosas with Paul.
Paul takes another shot and slams the glass on the table, "M--Man! We should totally order some food for tonight! I was thinking tacos or sushi! Or some fuckin'...pasta or some shit."
LDJ drunkenly groans, "Naaaaaah! Let's...let's order a shit-ton of pizzas from Peppy's and have it delivered to Mauve's joint!"
Paul smacks his chest like a gorilla and excitedly says, "FUCK YEAH!"
Luciano actually takes out his flip phone and begins to dial the number for Peppy's Pizzeria. He places the order for 75 large pizzas with assorted toppings and makes sure to include that there's going to be a ton of important people attending this house party.
He orders the pizza with whatever toppings people like and tells them to have it all delivered to Mauve's joint, in the Prairie Ridge, at 7 PM this evening.
Luciano belches into the phone. He flips the phone shut and does a few victory poses, "Whoo!" He's excited and the booze has made him all sorts of happy (and fucking nuts).
Paul plays with his nose a few times. He's fixing to get high on the stuff he bought from Marco, so he asks if Luciano can drop him back home.
Luciano shrugs, "What the hell, sure. And don't worry, there's gonna be plenty of blow tonight. Who knows, maybe you'll finally get to sniff it off someone's tummy or ass, hahahaaha!"
Paul laughs as Luciano starts going off about how great and beautiful his life is at this very moment. This earns a few laughs and a round of applause. Everyone's in a jolly and carefree mood.
In time, afternoon gives way to early evening. The sky begins to turn a dark orange-pink with shades of blue mixed in. The sun begins to slowly set. This signals the beginning of the nightly rush hour for all of the city's commuters.
This also signals the time for the Kindred in this particular part of the globe to awaken from their day-long slumber.
Markham's eyes shoot open, he sits up from his bed, covered in a sheen of bloody sweat. Another fragment of that painful memory has come to the surface of his undead conscious. He gets up and walks over to the large window.
His gaze is distant and hard to read. He hesitates to pull the thick curtains away as the sun's last few rays of light peek over the horizon. After a moment, he looks out the window, at the sun as it disappears under the Earth.
He was in for quite an interesting surprise later in the night.
Mauve the Malkavian awakens from her day-sleep. Her head hurts and her mind is full of confusion. The voices she has experienced have gotten stranger and stranger. She looks up at her ceiling and sighs deeply.
She has no idea that LDJ is planning on throwing a wild party in her Haven. Ever since her Embrace, she's had a lot of trouble getting along with people and holding a conversation.
For now, she heads to the bathtub for a soak. She weakly laughs at a few bubbles. She finds her thoughts turning to her Sire and wonders if she's doing her any justice at all.
Mauve has fragments of who her Sire is, but she still denies these pieces of information, lest she break down. Ms. Lilac has made peace with what she is now: an immortal bloodsucking creature of the dark night with a troubled and frazzled mind.
Dr. Collins is already awake. He picks out his clothing for the night- a striped green shirt, black slacks, a silver-striped black tie, and a black blazer. He decides on a nice pair of dress shoes as well.
The good doctor also applies some face creams that keep his cold and dead skin looking all nice and fresh. He checks himself out in the mirror and is satisfied with his appearance. He knows what's to come tonight.
It'll be another busy night at his clinic, treating people, diagnosing stuff, writing prescriptions, the usual GP routine.
He also has an appointment with a pale, hollow-faced, lawyer-looking guy who wanted to see him. Dr. Collins does wonder who this guy is and why he asked for an appointment.
He doesn't like having these surprises thrust upon him, but what's done is done. He'll find out more later tonight.
Wes pages Dr. Collins. The good doctor goes to his landline and calls his mortal assistant up, "Wes. Something the matter?" He takes his stethoscope out, as if preparing for the worst.
Wes excitedly replies, "Nothing's the matter, doctor. It's just that I uh...was hoping for that recommendation letter. There's a med school offering scholarships to underprivileged youth and I'm a little late on applying."
Dr. Collins relaxes a bit and sits down, "Ah, that. Don't worry about that, Wes. I'll get to it. I'm sorry I hadn't done it earlier, there's...been a lot on my mind."
"I--I understand, doc! See you soon."
"Yes." Dr. Collins hangs up and puts his stethoscope down. He massages the back of his head and starts going through some paperwork, preparing for another busy evening.
While going over some papers and reading some old medical magazines, he helps himself to a bag of blood from his stash. It's cold, almost sweet, and extremely refreshing.
He drinks it up in a refined and gentle fashion, drawing out every single drop of red fluid from that bag. The good doctor washes his hands in his bathroom and starts preparing for the evening.
It's almost time. The night's events have yet to unfold. Gordon is just about to find out who exactly it is that he put out a hit on. And Paul Cho is going to have more than a line or 2 in Mauve's Haven...and so much more.
Dr. Collins gets in his car and drives to his clinic. The drive is a few minutes longer than usual (nothing new there). He arrives in the parking lot, locks up his vehicle, and heads in.
The clinic is occupied with a few sickly folk. Wes is as diligent as ever, at his desk, answering phone calls and typing stuff up.
"Dr. Collins! Dr. Collins! T--That guy from earlier! He's here! In the bathroom! He looks really sick, doc. You should really take a look at him!"
Dr. Collins nods and goes to his office. After a few minutes, this man appears. He has short, messy hair, dark clothes, pale skin, and sunken eyes.
He extends his hand and introduces himself, "Uh...hi, Dr. Collins. Name's Wyatt and I'm a lawyer, um...just graduated law school, actually, so it's pretty much new-grad status, yeah."
The good doctor takes the pale-faced lawyer's hand and gives it a good, solid shake. He asks, "And what can I do for you, Mr. Wyatt?"
Wyatt looks around, as if expecting to be jumped on or ambushed, "Well...I'll get to that later, uh, Dr. Collins, if you don't mind, but...I got a question for you, doc."
Dr. Collins folds his arms, "That's what I'm here for, Mr. Wyatt."
Wyatt nervously laughs and tugs at his shirt's stiff collar, "A--Ah, right. U--Uh...I hope this doesn't come out the wrong way, but--but you're Kindred, right?"
Dr. Collins squints and doesn't really know what to say, "That's...who exactly are you, Mr. Wyatt?"
Wyatt twitches and gulps, "I need help, doc. Well, actually, it's my sister--"
Dr. Collins turns the lock on his door and clenches his fist, readying himself for what might be a fight with some amateur vampire hunter.
Wyatt holds out his hands in a placating gesture, "Hey, hey, easy, doc. I'm Kindred, too! See?!" He opens his mouth and bares his small fangs.
The good doctor relaxes and lowers his fist, "Hmph." He's about to turn the lock on the door when the lawyer blurts out, "W--Wait!"
"What do you want?"
Wyatt admits, "I'm not like you, doc. I'm a Thin-Blood, s--so is my sister. And we really need you to come and take a look at--at--" he stammers, his voice trailing off.
Dr. Collins remains skeptical, "At what, Wyatt? I have other patients to see tonight."
"I really don't know how to explain, doc- you have to see for yourself."
Dr. Collins plainly says, "Make an appointment, then. If there's something bothering you, I can try to help." He turns the lock and opens the door.
He's about to usher the Thin-Blood out when he pleads, "Please, doc! Please! I--I don't know who else to turn to!"
Dr. Collins sighs and closes the door, "Hmph, what is it? I'm a very busy man and if this turns out to be some kind of elaborate practical joke, I'll--"
Wyatt blurts out, "It's a kid, doc!"
"What?"
Wyatt sharply exhales, "My sister...has a kid."
Dr. Collins gives the Duskborn a sideways look, "You yourself said she's a Thin-Blood like you, how is that even possible?"
Wyatt nervously chuckles, "I dunno, doc. He's about 5-years-old. Name's Ralf."
"Impossible, Kindred cannot have children. Even if they did, they would be stillborn o--or worse," Dr. Collins shakes his head, "This isn't real. This can't be."
Wyatt remains insistent, "I'm telling you, doc! IT CAN BE! Ralf--Ralf is a Dhampir. Half-vampire, half-mortal."
"What Generation is your sister in?"
Wyatt shrugs, "I don't know, we could be in the 16th Generation or the 600th Generation, heh."
Dr. Collins gathers his things and looks at Wyatt, "I'll come. But this better not be you pulling my leg. People rely on me, Wyatt."
Wyatt pensively nods, "I know, doc. I know. It's just that m--my nephew deserves to live a normal life, y'know? I--I mean, I don't want him to grow up and end up being turned to canon fodder or something worse."
"Where do you live?"
"I'm just visiting my sis, Sammie, for a few weeks. I just graduated law school and I was thinking of trying something in this city."
"Don't. This place...you live in it for so long, you'll forget what decency looks like."
"Um...OK?" Wyatt says, looking a bit confused. He leads Dr. Collins out of the clinic and into his car. The drive is silent and tense. Wyatt's nervous and jittery, while Dr. Collins is calm and unmoving.
"Wow, the traffic in this city is something else, huh, doc?"
Dr. Collins dryly says, "Mm-hmm." He's looking out the window, observing the sights and sounds of the city. The neon lights, the billboards, the cars, the people, the buildings, the bars, the clubs, the restaurants, the stores, the movie theaters, the everything.
Still focused on the outside blurring past him, he asks, "How did you know I'm Kindred? And why me?"
Wyatt has his hands firm on the steering wheel, "You come highly recommended, doc. Besides, I can't trust any--any mortal doctors with a...a Dhampir. It's too risky."
Dr. Collins nods, "Yes, I suppose it is. How many of you are there in this city?"
Wyatt gasps, "I'd rather not say, doc. You know that the Sheriff is hunting our kind down and killing us off, right?"
"No, I wasn't aware, but I've heard rumors. They say she's doing it to stop Gehenna or something."
Wyatt scoffs, "Heh, yeah. Gehenna, a bunch of fucking make-believe to justify wiping us Mercurians off the face of the Earth. I think she's just crazy and wants to be the one to end us all."
Dr. Collins gives Wyatt a sideways glance, "What makes you say that?"
Wyatt responds, "Ah, never mind. Point is, it's too risky for us. Imagine--imagine what she'd do if she found out about little Ralfie. Jesus, you--you don't think she'd actually--"
That grim question hangs in the air as the Thin-Blood continues to drive. Eventually, they arrive at a house in the suburbs. Wyatt parks his car and the 2 men get out.
They walk to the front door and Wyatt rings the bell. He also calls out, "Sammie! Sammie! It's me! I got the doc here!"
Sammie's Haven is in a quiet, but decrepit and neglected suburb. The lawn is unkempt, the paint on the walls is peeling, the windows are dusty, and the garbage bins are overflowing.
It's a shabby and rundown place that's clearly seen better times. There are a few lights on inside the house. The 2 vampires wait for someone to answer the door. No one does.
Wyatt starts getting antsy and impatient. He pulls out a flip phone and dials a number. He apologetically smiles at the Tzimisce doctor and taps his foot on the ground.
"C'mon, c'mon, pick up," he mutters under his breath. "Hey, Sammie! Where the hell are you?! I got the doc here! Yes, HIM! THE DOC! Ugh, fine, OK."
The call ends and Wyatt tells Dr. Collins, "She was at the store, getting groceries. She ran late because Ralf wanted some cotton candy."
Dr. Collins incredulously asks, "You can eat regular food?"
Wyatt sourly laughs, "Yeah, we Thin-Bloods sure can. Well, most of us, anyway."
Dr. Collins tells himself, "Interesting. Very interesting."
After a few minutes, a car that looks like it might break down at any moment pulls up in the driveway. A woman gets out of the car, brown bag of groceries in hand. She hurries to the front door.
She's wearing a messy tank top and a pair of ripped jeans. Her blonde hair is hastily tied back into a bun and her gray eyes are tired and hollow.
With her free hand, she fumbles for her house keys. Dr. Collins offers to hold her grocery bag, while Wyatt goes to get Ralf out of the car.
Sammie thanks the good doctor and opens the door. The 4 of them go inside. The interior of the house is in a similar state of disrepair as the exterior.
Sammie apologizes, her voice strained and hoarse, "I'm sorry for the mess. Uh...yeah, come on in."
Ralf screams out, "Mommy, mommy! My hands are sticky! Mommy! I want a bath!"
Wyatt rolls his eyes, "I told you not to buy him that cotton candy, Sammie." He carries Ralf into the living room and sits him down on the grimy couch.
Ralf looks like his mom, his skin is very pale, his blonde hair is messy and unkempt, but his eyes are green. He's wearing a white Mickey Mouse shirt and a pair of blue shorts.
Sammie hurriedly puts the groceries away and comes back with a wet towel. She wipes her son's mouth and hands and tells him to go wash up.
Ralf objects, "But, mommy! I want bath in tub! With my rubber ducky and my boats!" he points to a reddish rubber duck and a few toy boats besides it.
Sammie sighs, "No, Ralf. Not now, OK? I need to talk to the doctor here...about you."
Ralf cutely repeats, "An apple a day keeps away doctor, hehehe!" He giggles and runs off to the bathroom with Wyatt.
Sammie sighs again and slumps down on the couch, "I'm sorry, doc. I just...I don't know what to do anymore."
Clearly, the plights of this poor single mom are compounded by the fact that her offspring is half-vampire, half-mortal. It's not something you see every day (or night).
Dr. Collins folds his arms, "I can see that. I'm sorry. He seems healthy to me. A bit pale around the cheeks, but that's to be expected."
Sammie sniffs and wipes a partially bloody tear from her eye, "Doc, I--I don't know how this happened. I mean, I was Embraced and all, but I--I never knew I'd still be able to have kids."
Dr. Collins nods, "Yes, I can imagine. But what I'm curious about is: who is his father? Another Thin-Blood, maybe?"
Sammie takes a deep breath, "No. Some mortal high-roller by the name of Gordon Pym. I had a one-night stand with him in a motel room. 9 months later, I'm squeezing out that bundle of joy in a concert."
She bitterly laughs and lights herself a cheap cigarette. When the fire from the lighter touches the tip of the cigar, Dr. Collins twitches and his pupils dilate.
"It's funny, y'know. I--I was just a girl working at a crappy dinner, trying to make ends meet, and then this guy comes along and...well, you know how these things usually go, heh."
She blows some smoke out, "I thought I wasn't able to have kids no more, but, boy was I fucking wrong."
"I see," Dr. Collins pauses for a moment, then asks, "And what of this Gordon Pym? Is he aware of Ralf's existence?"
Sammie nods her head and grunts, "Yeah, 'course he's aware of his own son's existence. He just chooses to deny it all. Asshole."
Dr. Collins tells her, "I've heard about this Gordon Pym guy in passing. He's some kind of attorney for some really powerful and important people in this city."
The Chameleon snickers, "He told me was some kind of important fixer or whatever. He says others call him 'The Pym Reaper' or some dumb comic book shit."
Dr. Collins nods and inquires, "Is he involved in raising the boy? Does he know that you're a vampire?"
"No, and no. Don't worry, your precious Masquerade's all intact. Now I realize that I was just an easy pussy for him to stick his old and shriveled cock into."
She shakes her head and angrily mutters, "Fucking prick." She takes another drag of her cigarette. Dr. Collins looks around the house and notices some photos of Ralf on the wall.
There's a picture of him, a few months old, wrapped up in a blanket, sleeping peacefully. There's another one of him, aged 2 years, smiling at the camera.
Another one shows him, aged 3, playing with some toy trucks and trains.
Dr. Collins observes, "And yet, Ralf's the center of your universe, huh? All the pictures on this wall feature Ralf and his uncle. Not even a single photo of you and your own son."
Sammie coldly says, "That's 'cause I can't even look at myself anymore without feeling disgusted. Ralf deserves better than--than--"
She gestures around her messy Haven, "THIS! And I can't even fucking give it to him!" She sobs and angrily throws her cigarette butt on the floor.
Dr. Collins quickly picks up the cigarette butt and puts it out on the nearby ashtray, "I'm sorry, Sammie. I truly am. I wish I could help you more, but..."
He sighs deeply, tone getting apologetic, "...I'm a doctor, what you need is a lawyer to get Ralf's father to pay some child support."
Sammie looks up at the Tzimisce doctor, her eyes red and puffy, "That's why Wyatt's here. But, Gordon's been using every trick in the book and every loophole to avoid paying me anything. I--I just don't know what to do anymore."
Dr. Collins pensively nods, "I see. I'm sorry, Sammie. I wish I could help you more, but..."
Sammie looks up at the doctor, eyes pleading, "Can you at least give my boy a checkup? I can't take him to a regular doctor, hell, I can't even send him to a regular preschool. I'm afraid he'll hurt someone o--or get hurt."
She ruefully smirks, "Kid loves showing his baby fangs off, heh."
Dr. Collins gives Sammie a reassuring smile, "Of course, Sammie. I'll do my best. You have my word. I've done some reading on the Dhampir phenomenon, most of it is controversial, but I think I can help."
Sammie smiles and wipes her eyes, "Thank you, doc. Thank you so much." She gets up and goes to check on Ralf and Wyatt.
Wyatt is busy playing pattycakes with his nephew. The Dhampir kid is excitedly telling his uncle about how he wants to grow up and become a "McDonalds".
Sammie laughs and ruffles her son's hair, "Oh, Ralfie. Come on, sweetie. There's someone who wants to see you now."
Dr. Collins puts on pair of disposable gloves. He checks his stethoscope and his other medical tools. He looks at the boy and smiles, "Hello, Ralf. I'm Dr. Collins."
Ralf looks at his mother, then at the doctor, "What's that thingy?"
Dr. Collins explains, "This is a uh...stethoscope. It's for listening to people's hearts. Do you mind if I listen to yours?"
Ralf shakes his head, "No, mister doctor man." He lifts up his shirt and exposes his tiny chest.
Dr. Collins gently presses the stethoscope against Ralf's chest. He hears the boy's heart beating and the sound of blood rushing through his veins.
Unlike regular Kindred, Ralf still has a heartbeat. Sammie presses her hand against her chest, "I got a slight heartbeat, too, doc. But it's really faint."
Dr. Collins nods and continues his examination. He checks Ralf's temperature, his reflexes, his blood pressure, his breathing, and his pulse.
He concludes, "He seems to be in perfect health. Tell me, is he vaccinated?"
Sammie nods, "Oh, yeah. Of course. I did that as soon as I could. I don't want my baby getting sick, y'know."
Dr. Collins notes, "Good, good. That's very good. I would advise you to continue vaccinating him. Don't stop. What about his nutritional needs? Is he eating regular food?"
Sammie replies, "Yeah, he's eating regular food. He's got a pretty big appetite for a kid his age. He's been eating nothing but cereal and macaroni and cheese lately."
"That's expected for a kid his age."
He turns to Ralf and directly asks, "Show me your fangs."
Sammie steps in, "Doc! A little more subtlety...please."
She looks at her boy and tells him, "Why don't you show the nice man your special teeth, hmm?"
Ralf eagerly nods and opens his mouth wide. He bares his small fangs and lets out a cute little hiss. Dr. Collins examines the boy's fangs and is fascinated by them.
He makes sure to take some notes and record his findings.
Wyatt stands nearby, leaning against a wall, arms folded, expression unreadable.
Dr. Collins concludes, "He seems to be in good health, Sammie. I would recommend you continue to feed him normal food."
He looks a tad bit unsure as he asks, "What about blood? Have you actually tried giving him some? Are you feeding him blood?"
Sammie shakes her head, "No, doc. I'm not gonna feed my kid blood! I mean, he's only 5-years-old! What the fuck?"
Ralf chuckles and giggles, "Blood! Ew!"
Sammie sighs, "He tried to bite the neighbor's kid. It was...a real mess. They moved out soon after. Shame. They were getting along real well."
Dr. Collins nods, "I see. Well, I would recommend you try to give him some blood. It might help him with his development."
"Can I give him mine?" Sammie cluelessly asks.
"NO. It's not potent enough and it might create a Blood Bond. Do you want your own child to be Blood Bonded to you?"
Sammie quickly says, "No, no, of course not. I just--I don't know where to get blood from. I mean, I'm already struggling with it. Dragging a kid along when I go hunting isn't exactly single-mom-of-the-year material."
Dr. Collins thoughtfully nods, "I understand, Sammie. I wish I could help you more, but I'm just a doctor. I can only tell you what to do, but I can't do it for you. Not without raising eyebrows or drawing unnecessary attention to myself."
Sammie exhales, "Yeah, I know. My brother here's the law school genius who's gonna try and get Gordon to pay for his son."
Wyatt grunts, "Hey, c'mon, sis. Don't put all the pressure on me. I'm trying my best here, OK? Gordon's a friggin' pain to deal with! It's like he's 10 steps ahead of you at all times."
Sammie scoffs, "Well, try harder, Wyatt?! OK?! My son deserves better than what we both grew up with!"
Dr. Collins clears his throat, "I could contact some local hospitals and ask them if they have any blood donations lying around?"
Wyatt nods, "That's actually a pretty good idea, doc."
Dr. Collins glares at Wyatt, "It's not for you. It's for the kid. He needs it."
Wyatt throws his hands up, "Whoa, easy there, doc. I was just saying, y'know. Chill out."
Dr. Collins folds his arms, "I'll see what I can do, Sammie."
Sammie sincerely smiles at the Dragon, "You've done more than what we expected, Dr. Collins. T--Thank you. If the Prince or his crazy Sheriff knew about the Thin-Bloods lurking in this city...shit, I--I try not to think about it."
Dr. Collins thinks for a few moments, his eyes darting around, "Your secret's safe with me, Sammie." There appears to be a hint of uncertainty in the doctor's tone.
Sammie narrows her eyes at him, "Y'know, doc...word on the street is you bagged the position of Primogen. How do we know you won't snitch on us?"
Dr. Collins assures her, "I'd like to think that I'm a bit more honorable than that, Sammie. I gain nothing from selling you, Wyatt, or little Ralf out to the Sheriff."
Sammie maintains her cold and distant gaze, "Mm. Sure. But you never know with some people. Especially in this goddamn money-crazed city."
She holds out her wrist, "Well, would it hurt to gimme and Wyatt a quick look-over? Going to other doctors gets pretty awkward and I ain't insured no more." She bitterly smiles.
Dr. Collins begins checking Sammie over. The usual- pulse (fine), body temperature (quite cold), reflexes (slightly faster than the average mortal), breathing (sort of).
But she seems perfectly normal otherwise. Dr. Collins nods, satisfied with his findings. He looks over at Wyatt. The Duskborn nods and shrugs.
Ralf tugs at his mom's arm, "Mommy, mommy! I want Reader Rabbit! Reader Wabbit! Reader Rabbit! I want my Reader Wabbit!" His big eyes are twinkling with excitement.
Sammie takes a bulky laptop from the dining table and opens it up. She powers it on, but it does take a while before the device starts up. She goes to a shelf to get a CD of the software that's essentially been teaching this Dhampir for the past year or so.
She puts the CD in. Ralf has a look of excitement in his eyes. He playfully hisses at his mom and pokes her with his small but sharp claws.
"Shhh, shhh. It'll be here soon, Ralfie. I promise." She goes back to the laptop and clicks the CD in. Ralf bounces excitedly in his seat, eyes wide and expectant.
While examining Wyatt, Dr. Collins queries, "What about his education and schooling? How do you manage?"
Wyatt answers, "I uh...gave him my old student laptop and found a bunch of bootleg Reader Rabbit CDs at an electronics store. It's not the best solution, but..."
Sammie cuts in, "But it's all we've got. I take care of the rest...when I can. Or until he's old enough to know what he is and how to better control and c--conceal his true nature." She exhales.
Dr. Collins looks at Wyatt, "Hmm, not ideal. He needs social interaction, not just learning programs."
Wyatt shrugs, "He--he's only 5-years-old, doc. It's not like he has trouble talkin' to people and stuff, y'know."
Dr. Collins nods, "You're right, it's not my concern. OK, Wyatt, you seem fine. Just a bit colder than usual, but that's to be expected of...your kind."
Wyatt shoots the doctor an askance look, "'Your kind'? Doc, we're Kindred too. It's just that our Blood's a whole lot Thinner."
Dr. Collins's tone is deadpan, "I don't have a problem with any of you Duskborn. It's just that the literature on you people is controversial."
With a disgusted look on her face, Sammie scoffs, "That whole Gehenna thing is a load of BS!"
Ralf giggles, "Bee. Ess. Mommy, what is Bee-Ess?"
Sammie grimaces and pats her son's head, "Nothing, baby. Let's just--just do your Reader Rabbit thing, OK?"
She tells Dr. Collins, "I think that's enough for me." She checks her watch, "It's getting late, too, and I'm picking up extra shifts at the diner. Single mom troubles, heh."
Wyatt scratches his face, "Yeah, and I better get to bed. I'm gonna try meeting Gordon in the morning and see how we can work out this whole thing."
He picks up Ralf and hoists the Dhampir kid on his shoulders, "Who's a good boy?"
Ralf screams and laughs, "Weeeeeeeee!"
Sammie sees the doctor out, "A quick word before you leave, doc?"
Dr. Collins nods and heads to the front door, "Of course."
Sammie steps outside and shuts the front door behind her, "Thanks, Dr. Collins. Really, it means a lot to that you came all the way here."
"It's no issue, Sammie. I had to see...this for myself."
Sammie sourly chuckles, "That's the thing, doc."
"What is?"
Sammie's eyes begin to tear up again, "I'm gonna be here forever, doc. Forever 21. Ralfie's gonna keep growing, he's gonna keep aging, but me and Wyatt will probably--probably--"
Her voice breaks and partially-bloody tears streak her cheeks. Dr. Collins gently places a hand on her shoulder and lets the Mercurian cry on his shoulder. He allows her a good long moment of it.
She sniffles and looks up at him, "Thanks, doc. I just want Ralf to grow up in a...in a nicer world. Do you ever think that decency is possible for us bloodsuckers?"
Dr. Collins winces, "I don't know about that being possible here in this city, but the wider world might be a different story."
Sammie looks around at the dreary street, "Yeah, the wider world, maybe. I hope." She shakes her head, "I'm sorry to have gone off like that, doc."
Dr. Collins squeezes her shoulder, "Don't be. It's perfectly normal to be overwhelmed. You need a good rest, Sammie. You all do. You deserve so much more."
Sammie chuckles, "Yeah, I suppose you're right, but work's the only thing that keeps this fuckin' roof over our heads these days. If I lose the house, then I failed my little boy, y'know?"
She wipes the semi-bloody from her eyes, "Sorry. I'm really sorry for going on and on about this. I hope you don't mind, but you're a good listener and--"
Dr. Collins plainly tells her, "Sammie, it's alright. I--I honestly had no idea that you Thin-Bloods had it this bad. Had I known, I would have done something sooner."
Sammie clicks her tongue, "Eh, it's alright, doc. Just--just do me--us a favor and don't tell anybody about this, alright? I know you got a seat at the Primogen Court or whatever it's called, but just don't sell us out."
Dr. Collins pensively nods, "I promise."
Sammie smiles at him, "I guess I'll have to take your word for it, doc. Goodnight!"
Dr. Collins bids her farewell. As the Stoker takes his leave, Wyatt steps outside and puts an arm around his sister, "Don't worry, Sammie. I'm gonna keep trying to get Ralf's dad to see...reason. To--"
Sammie growls, "Have some goddamn Humanity!"
She continues, "I don't want him to show up to Ralf's 1st recital or do all the dad stuff. He can't and he won't, but the least that son of a bitch can do is pay child support."
"I know, Sammie. I know. But first, we gotta get this kid a real education, y'know? Doc's got a point and you can't keep doing this homeschooling thing, it's not good for either of you in the long run. You're already stretched thin as it is."
Sammie sucks some air through her teeth, "Maybe. But, where are we gonna send him? Private schools cost more than we'd ever make in multiple lifetimes and the public schools in this city are falling apart."
Wyatt sighs deeply, "No good options, huh? Any kids his age left in this neighborhood?"
"Not really. Well, at least the ones he didn't already try to bite, heh."
Wyatt shrugs, "So? It's a matter of making him feel normal. Maybe a day-camp or something? Remember our summer camps?"
Sammie wistfully laughs, "Yeah. The only time we felt...free and alive."
Meanwhile, back at Mauve's Haven, the party is almost ready to begin. Her bell rings and she goes to see who it is.
There's a young dude in a red polo shirt holding some fresh pizzas, "Apartment 303, uh...Prairie Ridge, 3rd floor. Right?"
Mauve furrows her brows in confusion, "Yes, that's my address. Why?"
The pizza delivery guy sighs, "We got an order for 75 large pizzas with assorted toppings--"
Mauve quickly interrupts, "I--I didn't place that order."
The pizza delivery dude shrugs, "Well, somebody did and I ain't taking these freshly-made pies back, lady."
Just then, Mauve's telephone rings. She picks up the receiver and hears LDJ's voice on the other end, "Mauve! Hi! Listen, can you please make sure you get the 75 large pizzas that are supposed to be delivered to your joint tonight?"
Mauve hisses at him, "The fuck, Luciano?! Is this some kind of prank?!"
Luciano claps back at her, "HEY! Watch it, OK?! I PAY for that goddamn apartment, I pay your fucking bills and shit, and what do you do?! Tell me what you do!"
Mauve sighs resignedly, "I am the golden goose who lays those golden eggs."
"Precisely. So, get off the fuckin' phone, pick up those pies I PAID FOR, and get the place ready for a partay tonight! It's gonna be wild. Besides, we deserve this after the shit YOU pulled off, yeah?"
Mauve nervously asks, "Are you sure? Because if you don't mind, I'll just stay in my room tonight, maybe go out for a walk, and catch up on my reading."
"Fuck you, Mauve. Just pick up the pies already!" He abruptly hangs up the call before the Malkavian can respond.
Mauve sighs and picks up the 75 pizzas from the delivery guy. She thanks him and the other delivery people and tells them to have a nice evening. She then takes the pizzas and places them around the apartment.
Some she keeps in the fridge, some in the cupboards, and some in the oven. She also places some on the dining table. The smell is overwhelming, but not too overpowering.
Of course, being a vampire means she can neither smell nor eat the food. Still, she does take a few forceful whiffs, trying to recall what something as simple as pizza used to taste like.
However, the thing she craves now is blood. Seeing that tonight's guests might have who-knows-what in their veins, she decides to go out and hunt like a real vampire.
As she's locking her front door, Luciano calls out to her in his usual obnoxious fashion, "Where you going, my golden egg-laying biatch?"
"Out."
"What are you going to do while you're out there?"
"For a walk?"
Luciano gives her dirty looks, "Pssssh, gimme the fuckin' keys and you better not spoil my partay, OK?"
Mauve lowers her head and hands LDJ the apartment keys, "I'll be good, Mr. Donovan. I just--I just don't do well with people."
Luciano shrugs and shoos her away, "Yeah, yeah, whatever. I don't care, just make sure you come back, OK?"
Mauve quietly nods and leaves her Haven. She takes the stairs and looks around for a suitable neck (or wrist) to bite into.
Later on...
Mauve's back in her Haven, sitting on her bed, rocking back and forth. She's holding her knees close to her chest and her eyes are red and puffy. She's staring at the wall, lost in thought. There's a knock on her door.
Mauve slightly opens the door and peeks her head out, "Yes?"
Gordon gruffly asks, "Are you the one they call...Mauve Lilac?"
LDJ bought an entire stereo system and hooked it up, so the music is definitely a few decibels higher than the apartment association probably likes, but he doesn't give a shit.
He has a drink in 1 hand and a bag of crisps in the other. He's got a couple of other guests and he's showing them the new sound system.
Mauve stifles a groan, "I--I'm sorry, it's just so loud and overwhelming, can you say that again?"
Gordon growls and tries to force his way, "I said, are you Mauve Lilac?" He pushes the door open and Mauve tumbles to the ground.
He looks down at her, "I asked if you are Mauve Lilac?"
Mauve nervously nods, "I am, I--I am. I'm Mauve Lilac." She gets up and sits at the edge of the bed, a scared and apprehensive look on her face.
"I'm Gordon Pym. Attorney to the guy housing you."
"P--Pleased to meet you, Mr. Pym."
"Hmm, I'm sure the pleasure's all yours. I don't really care much for how you're netting my client's money. But, in the interest of fairness and discretion, I'd like you to sign a few documents."
He then pulls out a set of papers from his suit's pocket, "Just a few bits and pieces. Nothing much, really."
Mauve gulps and takes the blue fountain pen that he offers her, "Uh s--sure. Anything."
She signs "MS" on the dotted lines that Gordon's finger points out. He looks at the signed documents and squints, "MS? Are you trying to pull a fast one on me? Shouldn't it be ML?"
Mauve nervously bites her lower lip and blurts out, "Um...uh...maiden name."
Gordon indifferently sighs, "Hmph, thanks. I'll be off now. It's been a pleasure, Ms. Lilac or whatever."
He turns to leave, but stops in his tracks as a question pops into his head, "By the way, is that all your name is? Also, why aren't you out there with the rest of the party animals?"
"I--I'm afraid that's all I can tell you, Mr. Pym. As for me not being out there, loud cr--crowds aren't my thing, sorry."
Gordon shrugs, "Fair enough, fair enough. These documents you signed...don't screw my client over or try to get more out of him, got it?"
Mauve looks up at him and meekly nods, "Yes, sir. I won't. I promise."
Gordon shrugs again and leaves.
LDJ is busy eating a slice of pizza, some of the olives falling down onto the floor. He's talking to a pair of attractive but obviously drunk women, "Hey, hey, hey, hey, ladies! Look, this is my new sound system!"
Both of them say in unison, "Oooooooh."
Gordon clears his throat and tells his client, "All done. She's waived her right to any legal representation and has signed a few other strict NDAs."
LDJ gives his attorney a smirk, "The Pym Reaper! Reapin' it again!"
He gets on the sofa and yells out, "Can I get 3 cheers for The Pym Reaper! Hip-hip!"
The others in attendance respond, "Hooray!"
Gordon looks flustered and embarrassed by being put in the spotlight.
"Hip-hip!"
"Hooray!"
"Hip-hip!"
"Hooray!"
"C'mon, you fuckin' animals! Last time! HIP-HIP!"
The others loudly scream out, "HOORAY!" so loudly that it feels the entire apartment complex will fall over.
Gordon sighs and pinches the bridge of his nose, "Mr. Donovan, that's enough. Enjoy your party. I'll be in touch. And...the other thing is also being taken care of."
Luciano smacks Gordon's back, "YEAH! My fuckin' man! I can see why my dad liked you."
"Have you spoken to him yet?"
Luciano clicks his tongue, "Nah, not yet. I'll call him later."
Gordon puts on his hat and leaves without saying another word or socializing with any of the guests here. He already knows them all and has helped nearly everyone here in some way or another, so he has nothing to talk about with them.
It's just easier to keep his distance and be the "distant, aloof, and somewhat scary attorney/fixer." It's the only way he can think of that lets him have the necessary distance and deniability incase anything goes wrong.
Paul Cho is in the kitchen. He pulls out a credit card and begins to chop up and dice his cocaine. He divides it into 5 lines all for himself. He takes a hit of each of them 1 by 1.
His jaw hangs open and his vision swims after taking the last snort through a rolled-up $100 bill. He quickly runs his finger down his nose, wiping up the residue. He breathes a sigh of relief.
"Fuckin' nice!" He's clearly wasted, but not quite out of it yet.
After some time of wild, loud, and messy partying, a knock is heard at the door. 2 officers in dark blue police uniforms stand outside. They flash their badges at LDJ.
LDJ leans against the doorway, slightly inebriated, "Oh, heeeeeey! Which one of you faggots called the male strippers, huuuuuh?"
1 of the officers flashes his badge, "FCPD. We received multiple calls from the neighbors regarding loud and disruptive partying."
LDJ shrugs, "Psh, what's the problem, man? Just havin' us a little fun, a lil...celebration. You're--you're all welcome to join us!"
The other officer says, "We'll need you to keep it down or shut it down, sir."
Luciano dismissively waves his hand, "Do you know who I fucking am? Do you know who my dad is? Luciano motherfuc--motherfucking Donovan. You're talking to his most-favored offspring, heh."
The main officer's eyebrows shoot up in surprise, "You're Luciano Donovan Senior's kid?"
LDJ tugs at his suit's lapels and raises his chin, "The 1 and fucking only- Ell Dee Jay!"
The other officer, Officer Sanchez, looks over at Officer Davis, "Well, I suppose we could make an exception. Your dad was and is a big supporter of the police union."
Officer Sanchez has an expectant look on his face, the look of someone who's not immune to a little, shall we say, greasing of the palms.
Officer Davis shrugs and expects a little...early Christmas bonus.
LDJ picks up on this and pulls out a few crispy and fresh $100 notes from his wallet. He gives both officers a very generous tip.
"Here, boys. It's a token of my appreciation for all the shit you do and all the bums, hobos, and whores you beat up, lock up, or fuck up on a daily basis."
He laughs, "Or maybe you can just call it a gift, eh? Off the books and all that shit."
Officer Sanchez heartily laughs and walks away with Officer Davis following in tow.
Luciano approvingly tells himself, "And that's how you fuckin' win in this goddamn city. Money talks...money tames the beast in all of us."
He turns around and finds Paul standing there, arms folded, a look of disapproval on his wild and somewhat-scruffy face.
Paul shakes his head, "You know I don't like it when you do that, Luciano. Bribing the law's a step--a step too far for me. We're supposed to be doing everything above board. What if somebody finds out and we get caught?"
Luciano waves him off, "Tch. Don't worry about it, Paul. Nobody's gonna find out. I'm always careful, OK? And I got you and Gordon to bail my skinny ass out of the big house incase anything happens, right?"
"I--I guess so. But Gordon's in a position to protect himself, and I can only do so much, Luciano."
Luciano places his arm around Paul and leads him to the living room, "Whatever. Now, enjoy the party. And if you need more blow, well, hey, I'm ready to take another trip to Marco's dump to get your fix, heh."
Paul's eyes light up, "Y--You'd do that? For me?"
"'Course! We've known each other since we was sucking our thumbs. I need your loyalty and you need your coke."
Paul smirks, "Alright. I'll be expecting it. N--Not now, though. Maybe later in the night."
Poor Mauve, her Haven has essentially been turned into a trading floor- it's loud, it's obnoxious, there's food (and other sloppy things) everywhere, and the smell is so overpowering, but Mauve can't even smell anything (thankfully).
She's curled up on her bed, hugging her knees close to her chest. Her eyes are red and puffy. Numbers keep flooding her mind, strings of 1s and 0s call out to her, but she is trying her best to tune them out.
She gets a call on her cellphone that snaps her out of her hazy mess. She checks the caller ID and sees a completely blank space on where the name would usually be.
She takes the call, "Hello?"
The voice on the other line sounds robotic, artificial, and garbled, "So-on. So-on. Jo-in us."
Mauve gasps and shakily asks, "Who--who's this?"
"Ans-wers ne-ar. Clo-ser th-an ex-pe-ct-ed. As-sim-ilat-ion in-evit-able. E-nd--"
Mauve feels very disturbed and uneasy and ends the ominously cryptic call before it can continue.
"What the hell was that?!" the Malkavian asks herself, her hands trembling uncontrollably.
She checks her phone and tries to redial the number, but it says the number no longer exists. What the hell...
Mauve lowers her head and begins to sob, the tears of blood flow freely and they stain her pillow and sheets.
Is it an elaborate prank call or is there something more...sinister behind it? Either way, it's disturbing.
Speaking of things going wrong...
Markham is at his hotel room, seated at the desk, laptop on, screen glowing. He throws his head back and rapidly blinks. He has to get ready for the meeting with Nicky.
Nicky said he's gonna be late, so the meeting has been moved to 9:30 PM.
Markham stands up and heads towards the window. He looks down at the city below, the people walking by, cars rushing along the streets.
He pulls out his flip phone and dials a number. After a few rings, a familiar voice comes on the line, "Hello?"
Markham lowers his head, his eyes darting around, "Hey, Jamie. It's me."
Jamie's tone reflects her excitement, "Markham! You finally remembered my number! How you doing? Still alive? Still kicking, gosh, I hope you're working on your tan, heh."
"I--I'm doing fine, Jamie. I just wanted to hear your voice."
"Awww, someone's missing me."
"Hmm. So, how are things back in the office? How's Clifford doing?"
Jamie responds, "Yeah, boss is doing OK. How's the investigation coming along?"
Markham rubs his forehead, "Yeah, it's going well. I'm actually supposed to meet someone in a few minutes. I thought I'd pass the time and call you up for a quick chat until he shows up."
"I miss you, Markham. It's--it's so different without you here. It's like I have this big Markham-shaped hole in my heart."
"Don't be so dramatic, Jamie. It's only for a little while, after that I'm back in the office."
"I know, I know. Just promise me 1 thing, please, Markham, please?"
Markham tells his Touchstone, "Anything, Jamie."
"Don't die out there. As I told you last time we spoke, I've been reading up on Flimont City. There's lots of unsolved murders and I--I'd hate for you to end up like one of those poor victims. Promise me, Markham, please. PLEASE."
"I--I promise, Jamie. I can take care of myself here, don't you worry."
"Good, thank you. You're a good guy, Markham and I'm glad to have you as a friend," Jamie's voice cracks and Markham can almost feel the tears through the phone.
Markham can feel himself starting to tear up too, "I--I'm glad to have you as a friend too, Jamie. I--I gotta go and get ready for tonight's meeting."
Jamie shakily chuckles, "Yeah, stay safe out there, buddy."
"You too, Jamie. You too. Goodnight."
"Goodnight!!"
The call ends and Markham wipes the sanguine tears from his eyes. He turns off his laptop and puts it aside.
He walks into the bathroom, puts on his jacket, and adjusts his hair. He takes a look at his reflection in the mirror. His eyes are sunken, he looks tired. His skin is pale, but it isn't as bad or noticeable as other Kindred.
He checks his watch: 9:26 PM. He takes out his cellphone and dials his Nicky's number.
Nicky answers with a very brash and abrupt, "What?!" The sounds of horns being honked and loud car engines are heard in the background.
Markham asks, "Nicky? We still on for tonight?"
Nicky replies, "'Course! But traffic's a bitch in this city. I'm close to the hotel. Get the drinks ready at the bar, cuz I'm gonna need 'em if you're gonna make me talk about the Donovans."
"Hmm, sure."
The call ends and Markham heads down to the hotel's bar. He sits at the counter and takes a look at some of the bottles on display: Chianti, Vodka, Whiskey, Scotch, Rum, and whatever else that people usually pick to drown their sorrows in.
The bartender notices him, "You here for a drink, pal?"
Markham shakes his head, "No. Just waiting for someone to show up."
The bartender ties her hair up into a ponytail and goes back to cleaning a few glasses.
Soon enough, Nicky Schroeder stumbles into the bar. He looks angry and his suit is wrinkled. His thinning hair is a mess and he looks like he's in his late-30s. He's got a big nose and dull brown eyes. His face is sweaty and flushed and he has a faint scar on his left cheek.
Markham gets up and asks, "Mr. Schroeder?"
Nicky sits at the counter and quickly says, "Yeah, yeah, that's me." He signals the bartender, "Gimme a malt whiskey, and then keep 'em coming!"
Markham clears his throat, "Mr. Schroeder, no offense, but I'm gonna need you to be sober for this."
Nicky waves his hand in dismissal, "Eh, I can hold my booze, Markham. And please, call me Nicky. So, tell me, what interest does the SEC have in the Donovan family?"
After the bartender gives Nicky what he asked for, Markham explains, "Well, I'm investigating the son- Luciano Donovan Junior, or LDJ as some call him. But, I need to know more about the family in order to get a better picture of things."
Nicky sips on his malt whiskey and smacks his lips, "Hmm, interesting. Well, what do you wanna know? What do you wanna hear? The Donovan family is...well, they're cut-throat and ruthless."
Nicky's tone becomes bitter, "I don't know if you know this, but Luciano Senior sat on the advisory board of the SEC years ago. Heh, you're supposed to be regulating these jokers, not giving them reach-arounds."
"I'm aware of that arrangement."
Nicky looks down at the liquid in his glass and shakes it around, "I see. Well, I've made it a part of my life's work to know all that there is to know about the Donovans, and lemme tell you- it ain't a pretty list."
Markham remains focused, "Go on."
Nicky sharply exhales, "Hoooo boy, there's a lotta skeletons in that old closet. Luciano Sr. was a pretty controversial stockbroker back in his day. Hell, he even ran a few Ponzi schemes but nothing's ever been proven."
Markham asks, "What about his son? What can you tell me about him?"
Nicky swirls his glass, "He's an animal, Markham. You see, Luciano Sr. had a bit of a reputation for fucking every broad that crossed his leering eyes and he wasn't afraid to use his money, his influence, and his connections to get his way."
"So, how is that related to his son, Luciano Junior?"
Nicky scoffs, "What do you think, Markham? So far, Luciano Senior has pumped out daughters on nearly every fuckin' continent. LDJ is the only one with a cock between his legs, that's why he's so special to daddy. Heh."
Markham nods, "I see. Well, what about the family's finances?"
"Lemme put it this way, Markham, money is what the Donovan family eats, breathes, shits out, and sleeps in."
The bartender chick overhears this and snickers.
Nicky goes on, "Point is: they're loaded. Of course, Luciano Sr. has showered all his love, money, affection, money, and care, but mostly money on LDJ, the heir to the throne."
"And what's LDJ like?"
Nicky shrugs, "What do you think he's like? He's an asshole. A spoiled, narcissistic asshole who doesn't give a damn about anybody but himself."
"Hmm, born with a silver spoon in his mouth, huh?"
Nicky faintly chuckles, "There's 2 possibilities in this city, Markham- either you're born with a silver spoon in your mouth, like LDJ."
"What's the other possibility?" Markham dryly asks.
"Or you're born with a cattle prod up your ass. That's about 90% of this city's population- they can barely afford to make rent, the jobs are drying up, and the infrastructure is LITERALLY falling apart in front of our eyes."
Markham motions for Nicky to go on. Before Nicky can do so, he asks the bartender for some breath mints.
The bartender slides him a glass bowl of light-green, rock-looking mints and he pops a few of them in his mouth and sucks on them. He exhales, "Ahhh, thank you."
He goes back to talking about the Donovan family, "As I was saying, Markham- either you're the guy selling his grandma's fillings for obscene amounts and making a killing, or you're the schmuck polishing his shoes."
Markham is a bit taken aback, "That bad down here, huh? And the Donovans are in the thick of it all..."
Nicky chortles, "Well, what do you expect from a city that's been called 'Wall Street 2.0' for the past few fuckin' years, huh? Speculations on the stock exchange, insider trading, tax evasion through loopholes, open Ponzi schemes, ah screw it!"
He calls out to the bartender, "Fill 'er up! Me and my new friend here are gonna take a ride."
The bartender has a blank look on her face as she pours him another round of the good stuff.
Markham asks, "So, what's your connection with the Donovan family? How do you know so much about them? From your tone, I gather you aren't fond of them."
Nicky angrily sips his whiskey, "I used to have a halfway decent job at the Flimont Times- the uh...part that dealt with writing profiles on people. I had some of my own articles and I had an eye for spotting loopholes, discrepancies, and things like that."
Nicky continues, "But, the higher-ups pulled me from that department."
"What happened?"
There's hesitation in Nicky's eyes, but it passes in a heartbeat, "Somebody...some-fucking-body sent a video tape of me and a transsexual hooker in a--a hotel room." Nicky bitterly scoffs.
Markham shrugs, "That doesn't sound wrong on the surface."
Nicky laughs, "Yeah, it was consensual with an adult and all, but the higher-ups made insinuations about me and how my preferences affected my work and how I was...ah, fuck it. Bartender!"
"What does any of this have to do with Luciano Donovan Senior?" Markham's eyes are laser-focused on Nicky, the reporter has the attention of the vampire investigator now.
The bartender tries to give Nicky another top off, but Markham signals her not to do so just yet. Nicky grunts and looks into the empty glass, "I was gonna write a piece on him, and not the flattering type, mind you."
Markham is smart enough to fill in the blanks, "So, he somehow found out about your...inclinations and sent that videotape of you and that hooker to your bosses?"
"That sums it up, but I can't prove squat. So, it was someone working for him. Luciano Donovan Sr. didn't get where he is without doing some pretty shady and under-the-table shit."
"Who was it?"
"Gordon-fucking-Pym. Or as they so dramatically call him around these parts: 'The Pym Reaper'. Oooh, scary. He works for Junior now, same MO, though- blackmail, bribes, coercion, intimidation, and whatever else he can do to keep his precious clients from getting exposed."
Markham leans forward, his eyes fixed on Nicky, "But you seem to have survived, right?"
Nicky derisively rolls his eyes, "Hmph, barely. Still, it ain't as bad as than the other...alleged shit Luciano Senior has...allegedly done."
"Like?"
"I don't feel comfortable talking about that, uh...what was your last name again?"
"Reed. Markham Reed."
Nicky nods a few times, "Right, right. Let's just say that the FCPD is currently sitting on a ton of cold cases that a fuckin' amateur could solve if the department ever pulled their collective thumbs outta their fat asses, and..." He shakes his head. He's getting off topic.
He continues, "But, back to the topic. As I was saying, if you look into the cold cases of missing or murdered people in this city, a LOT of it goes back to the 'booming' financial industry in this lovely Midwestern hellhole."
Markham motions for Nicky to elaborate, "How so?"
Nicky scratches his eyebrow with his thumb and takes a quick sip of his booze, "You ever notice the kids around here, Markham?"
"No. Why?"
Nicky clicks his tongue, "Well, let's just say that their daddies don't like parting with a dime when it comes to paying child support. The guy parties hard, meets a nice chick, knocks her up, and uses his connections and influence to screw her over. Consequences be damned."
He raises his glass and sarcastically declares, "It's just that easy in this place, just...that easy."
"So, there's a ton of absent fathers in this city, what's new?" Markham asks.
"A ton of them, for sure, but what happens to their kids, huh?"
"What happens to them?"
"They grow up poor, Mr. Reed. Do you know what it's like to grow up poor, to know that your whole existence is just...a mistake someone made 1 night? Do you?" Nicky asks. His voice is beginning to waver. He's getting worked up.
"We're really going off topic, but I can't help but feel that this...is personal for you, Mr. Schroeder."
Nicky scoffs, "Don't patronize me, Reed. There was this single mom I was interviewing for a piece on a small-time stockbroker- you can guess who put her in that situation." Nicky's voice begins to rise. He's clearly angry and upset, but it's more than that.
The alcohol is adding a certain amount of venom and edge to his words.
He continues, "It's always the same story, isn't it? Pumped and dumped. She tried to fight the dad in court, y'know, get him to pay even a pitiful pittance as child support, but hey, ain't no rich cat gonna part with their ill-gotten gains, not even a crumb."
Markham directly asks, "What happened in the end?"
Nicky's lips quiver, "She--she drowned her kid in the bathtub. 'Altruistic filicide' they call it. After that, she OD'd on OxyContin and it took a week before the bodies were found." His voice begins to break.
He goes on, "Her place was a pitiful sight, man. She was poor as dirt, her roof was leaky, there was barely enough to eat, the power was shut off, the place reeked of...something, and..."
Nicky signals the bartender for yet another drink. It's not too hard to see why a broken man like him seeks refuge in the bottle.
Even Markham has a distant look on his face, as though Nicky's own trauma were triggering long-buried memories in the vampire.
"What happened in the end?"
Nicky swirls his glass around, the liquid splashing around, "Nothing. There's no good endings or neat conclusions, that's not how the world works, buddy." He laughs, but there's a distant sadness to it.
"And what does this have to do with Luciano Senior?"
"It's an example. Luciano is no different. Remember I told you he had...shit, at least 1 kid on every continent. Well, those are the ones I know of. There could be more out there. Shit, there ARE probably more." He chortles again, on his way to being wasted.
He goes on, "Either way, a lot of those kids are now poor and poor as fuck. Luciano Junior is the only one who ever got a taste of that--of that--" His words slur and he's incapable of coherent thought.
Markham fills in, "High life?"
"Yeah, t...that. So, anyway, back to the subject a--at hand: the big man himself. I was writing a piece on him before someone sent that recording of me and that hooker. Fuckin' creeps, man."
Markham points out, "It seems a bit excessive. Firing you for what you were up to in a private setting with another consenting adult."
Nicky rolls his eyes and shrugs indifferently, "Yeah, sure. But my boss was one of those Bible-thumping types. Y'know how stuck-up they are. The moment he saw that hooker's cock, I'm sure he had a heart attack, hahaha!"
Markham taps the desk a few times, "Hmm. OK. So, the higher-ups saw that...and your article on Luciano Senior was killed. The timing couldn't have been better."
"Mmm-hmm. Ah, besides, a part of me knew that the article wouldn't fly. There was a LOTTA things in there that would've warranted multiple investigations, from multiple agencies, into Luciano Senior."
Markham inquires, "Do you still have a copy of that article lying around somewhere?"
Nicky bitterly chuckles and clicks his tongue, "Destroyed 'em all. The Pym Reaper is a thorough son of a bitch. I tried keeping a copy, but that guy...he knows every goddamn trick in the goddamn book."
Markham asks, "Why were you trying to write about Luciano Senior's...deviant and criminal ways in the first place?"
Nicky slumps his shoulders and lets out an exhausted sigh, "Because it's my job...as a journalist. I got responsibilities to the people, ideals I try to uphold."
Nicky scoffs, "Gonna look good for a Pulitzer, y'know." He downs his glass, "Ah, well..."
"Do you at least remember what you wrote about?"
Nicky grins and taps the side of his head a few times, "Hey, 'course I do. W--Well, mostly. I know Alzheimer's runs in my family, but I haven't lost it all. Yet."
Markham keeps his cool and signals for the bartender to give ol' Mr. Schroeder half a refill.
Nicky beams, "That's real kind of you, Mr. Reed. Yeah, I know the...shall we say, spicier parts of Luciano Senior's history."
"I have time, Mr. Schroeder."
Nicky snickers, "'Course you do. You called me up in the middle of the goddamn night. You must be an over-caffeinated SOB if you're up late at nights."
Markham plainly says, "I have a different sleep schedule."
"Well, lucky you. Yeah, Luciano Senior is as nasty as they come."
Markham cuts in, "I'm not looking for the whole story here, just some highlights and something that might help shed some light on his son's activities and behaviors."
"Hmm, sure. Luciano Donovan Senior. He's about...what, 70-something the last time I bothered to check. It's a lot and my memory ain't the best, but I'll go over what I--I can with you. Bartender!"
Luciano Donovan Senior is a pretty repulsive figure. He was close friends with Fred Trump Senior (no surprise there), he supported the Presidential Campaign of Ronald Wilson Reagan in the 1980s, and had ties to borderline fascistic organizations.
He was a regular at some of the more prestigious golf courses and country clubs. He's made several...questionable investments that would've bankrupted most other folk, but he seems to always be able to ride the wave.
Although it remains hard to prove, it's alleged that he personally routed money and other resources to right-wing death squads in Latin America, most of whom are now defunct (or under a different name).
His connection to those groups remains tenuous at best and it's unlikely that the anyone in the States is ever going to pursue the matter.
He was a also notorious philanderer back in his heyday, as is evident by the many daughters he has had on nearly every continent, and even a daughter who died of mysterious circumstances in the late 90s.
Nicky takes a breather after giving Markham some background on Luciano Senior. Markham seems withdrawn, "That's quite the list."
Nicky snorts, "That, my friend, barely scratches the surface with this guy. Last I heard, he was in the Cayman Islands with his latest lady or some shit. The Murdoch tabloids fucking love this guy."
"What about the son?" Markham asks.
Nicky grimaces in disgust, "The apple doesn't fall too far from the tree, Markham. LDJ is TRULY his father's offspring. He's a greedy, short-sighted, and entitled SOB, and that's putting it VERY mildly."
"Does he do drugs?" Markham asks.
Nicky shrugs, "All rich pricks like him do drugs o--or worse. Point is, even if the FCPD discovered a pound of blow on LDJ's lap, they wouldn't touch him because he's the son of the city's 'big man.' You understand?"
Markham nods. It's true- rich brats like that are increasingly becoming staples in the system he swore to uphold, "What about the mother? She seems...absent from all of this."
Nicky downs his drink in a single gulp and stifles a belch, "Oh, sh--shit. Her. Well, didn't you do your homework? She died...in an..."
He does the air-quotes gesture, "'Accident' a few years ago. Her fancy car conveniently lost control and went off a cliff."
"Somehow, I get the impression that nothing's been tied back to Luciano Sr. in regards to it."
"I'll never forget it- there was so much blood. And her body looked like it had been--been put through a blender," Nicky's voice breaks, a tear forming in the corner of his eye.
He wipes it away and pops a few mints in his mouth, "After that, the rumor mills went into overdrive. All kinds of garbage, and I mean, garbage was being thrown around. Even I, as a seasoned dabbler in embellishment, didn't expect such shit."
"Like?"
Nicky wildly gesticulates, "Some say she was pregnant, others claim she was on drugs, someone else said she was threatening to go public unless Luciano Senior disinherited his precious LDJ."
Nicky laughs bitterly, "Point is, you don't wanna know what kind of filth people love to throw around. I--I'd like to say it was an accident, but I honestly don't know what happened to LDJ's mom."
Markham asks the obvious, "Why would the mother want her own son disinherited?"
"Probably saw what all that dough was doing to her boy and didn't want it to corrupt him or whatever, heh. Also, she was a struggling middle-class artist while Luciano Senior was buying fancy crap for his boy every other week."
"And how is Luciano Senior's relationship with LDJ?"
"Ah, I--I wouldn't say that LDJ has the best relationship with his dad. There's a lot of gifts, but also, a lotta pressure on the boy...to perform. He's the only known male in the family line."
"Hmm," Markham ponders the possibilities. He asks, "I assume Luciano Junior had a normal childhood?"
Nicky sarcastically nods, "Define 'normal', Mr. Reed. He had chauffeurs take him to school. For prom, he had a long-ass limo all to himself. It was so long, it had trouble fitting into his date's street." Nicky chortles at that.
Markham remains unfazed, "Any particular interests or hobbies?"
Nicky shrugs, "A few, yeah. I can't recall, but they weren't anything special- sports, video games, crap like that."
"And what about friends? A guy like him can't have many."
"A guy like LDJ is only loyal to 1 guy- LDJ. He has...a friend."
Markham responds with a knowing nod, "Paul Cho. What's his story? Why's he so close to LDJ when all the others have either disappeared, fell out with him, had enough, or gotten caught in some kind of scandal?"
"A bit of all of that, plus a few other factors. I dunno if you've met this Paul guy, but he's...well, let's just say he has a...nah, never mind. It's pointless, anyway."
Markham grips Nicky's arm, "If there's something you know, Nicky, I need you to tell me."
Nicky nervously glances around. He wets his lips and asks the bartender for another round, "Fill 'er up, darlin'. One for the road, as it were."
Markham holds up a stern finger and the bartender stops in her tracks.
Nicky glares at the Baali, "Ugh, fine. Word on the street is Paul Cho has a nasty...and I mean NASTY coke habit."
"Why isn't he in jail...or rehab, then?"
Nicky scoffs, "Didn't you hear what I said about rich cats in this city??! It's funny and eccentric when THEY snort a line, but it's downright criminal when a disheveled old guy does it in a public bathroom, am I right?"
Nicky continues, "Again, it's all rumors, but man, oh, man, Mr. Cho has some connections and they make sure his habit doesn't interfere with their cash cows."
"What's Paul Cho's story?"
"Nothing special. His dad is this South Korean hedge fund manager. The mom conveniently disappeared and Paul has been estranged from dad ever since her...'disappearance' or whatever REALLY happened."
"You suspect foul play of some kind?"
Nicky clicks his tongue, uncertain, "I don't know. I only know what I heard and read about."
Nicky immediately gulps down some whiskey which is poured for him, "His dad also has connections to a lotta powerful people here in this city, so it's not a stretch to assume he pulled the right strings."
Nicky remarks, "Despite snorting up the white stuff like a vacuum cleaner, Paul likes to play on the good side of the law. When it suits him and those around him, of course."
Markham shifts in his seat, "Then why's someone like him best friends with someone like LDJ- someone who clearly doesn't give a damn about playing fair or staying within the bounds of the law?"
Nicky chuckles and leans close, "Money and connections, Mr. Reed. If there's anything these people have in spades, it's money and connections. And loose or downright nonexistent morals, heheheh."
Markham asks, "Anything more you can tell me about Luciano Junior? Anything at all?"
Nicky shakes his head, "The old maxim rings true in this case, Mr. Reed: 'Like father, like son.' LDJ will do anything to turn his millions into even bigger millions. Anything."
Markham nods contemplatively and mulls over everything this on-his-way-to-getting-drunk guy has told him so far, "So, the apple doesn't fall too far from the tree when it comes to this guy. How do you think Luciano Junior will react if he's being investigated for wrongdoing?"
Nicky plainly shrugs, "How does a cornered wild animal react when it's confronted? Luciano Jr. and Paul will try to shut the whole thing down- you'll probably get some flimsy charges or..."
"Or?" Markham prods Nicky.
Nicky leans closer, his alcoholic breath stinking to high heaven, "You'll get a nice, tidy, and conveniently-timed 'accident' that'll leave you or your career in a smoking heap of trash."
Markham leans away and almost looks afraid for a second.
Nicky chortles, "But, they'll probably try to shut it down. The SEC is a joke, no offense or anything."
"What makes you say that?"
"Ronald Wilson Reagan was like...the Second Coming of Christ for this city's fledgling financial industry. The whole deregulations thing, the axing of the social safety net, the rampant worship of the self. Neoliberalism, man."
Nicky lowers his head, his expression one of pity, "Either way, you'll need an iron-clad case if you wanna take down the son of 1 of this city's fixtures, the man who has had such a strong and firm grip on it for decades."
Markham blows a raspberry. This is all quite overwhelming, even for a SEC Enforcement Investigator. He's NEVER had a case like this, but the money-greed-power nexus triangle is strong over here.
Nicky keeps his attention on Markham, "You gonna do anything else while you're here?"
Markham looks blankly at the bottles of alcohol and takes a deep breath.
He tells the drunk-to-be, "No, I think we're done here. You've told me all that you can possibly tell me. The rest is up to me now. Here," Markham pays for Nicky's tab.
Nicky raises his glass and smiles, "Hey, a--anytime, bu--buddy, anytime."
Markham pats Nicky's back, "I think we're done for the night. Get home safely, Mr. Schroeder. And I'm sorry for all that you've had to endure and witness."
Nicky tsks, "Tsk, why do you think I'm here guzzling booze down like a fish, hmm? If you do manage to achieve something, promise me that you'll bring these sons of bitches to justice. ALL of 'em, n--not just the top dogs or some low-level fishes."
Markham sighs deeply, not sure if he can promise that, "I just want everybody to play fair and by the same rules, Nicky. I'm not some angel from heaven above, flaming sword in hand, coming down to exact divine retribution or something."
"Pssh, then maybe what we need is a demon from hell to do just that, heh. Goodnight and sleep tight, Mr. Reed. Call me if you wanna talk, and by talk...I mean buy me drinks, hahaha!"
Nicky waves Markham off, his voice echoing throughout the bar.
Markham turns to leave, but as he reaches the door, Nicky hollers out, "HEY! MARKHAM!"
The Baali sighs and walks back, "What?"
Nicky pokes his shoulder and grins, "D--Did you know that Luciano Sr. is a real close friend of Bernie Madoff? Did I mention that? Senior has got MILLIONS invested with the guy."
Markham's eyebrows shoot up in an unsurprised and uninterested manner, "I'll...keep that in mind. Goodnight, Mr. Schroeder." He exits the bar and heads back to his room.
He still has some work to do before the night comes to a close.
A few hours later...
The time on the clock in Markham's room reads 12:58 AM. Markham is sitting at his desk. The lights are off and the only source of illumination is the gentle glow of the laptop monitor.
Daniel Percy, the hitman, is making his way up to the 14th floor. He has a silenced pistol that he smuggled in. He checks his black watch: 12:59 AM. He's right on schedule. He presses the button for the 14th floor and the doors close.
He has a hard and determined look on his face. The elevator gradually climbs, the sound of the gears creaking and the cables grinding against one another are the only audible sounds.
The light above the door is dimly flashing between the 14th and 15th floor.
It dings open at the 14th floor and Daniel exits. He's wearing very bland and inconspicuous clothing- a long coat, slacks, and a black baseball cap with no logos of any kind.
His hair is short. He wears a pair of glasses. His face is handsome, but unremarkable. His eyes are a bit narrow. He really does look like a hardened killer not afraid to get his already dirty hands even dirtier.
He walks down the long hallway, looking back every now and then, just to make sure that no one is tailing him. It's unlikely, but not impossible. Once at room 1408, he pulls out a professional-looking lockpick kit and slides the end of the cylinder into the keyhole.
He presses the trigger and the pins inside the keyhole are knocked loose. The mechanism springs to life and unlocks the door. The door clicks open and the hitter gently slides it open.
Markham is just staring out the window, lost in his own troubled thoughts. He's still processing Nicky's exposition dump from earlier tonight. It's been a long night for him. He's also a little more...moody than usual.
Daniel moves silently, he readies his pistol and aims it up. He steadies his nerves and pulls the trigger. The gun fires and Markham is shot in the lower back.
The bullet strikes the vampire and he falls down, face-flat on the floor. Daniel fires 5 more rounds into Markham's back, in rapid and deadly succession. No blood is visible from the wounds. Daniel's face scrunches in confusion. He kicks Markham's cold body and gets nothing in way of a reaction.
He kneels down, and places 2 fingers on Markham's cold neck. No pulse, but he winces at how unusually cold the vampire's skin is. He checks the pockets of the Baali and finds nothing of importance to his contract.
Daniel is still confused. He holsters his pistol and dials a number.
"It's me. Markham Reed is dead. Understood, sir. Will do. Yes. Thank you. Of course."
He snaps the burner phone, stomps on in, and throws it away in the nearby trash can.
As he's about to make his way out, Markham's body twitches. The vampire's wounds begin to mend themselves.
Daniel looks over his shoulder and sees the Demon struggling to stand up. The hitter quickly pulls out his pistol, his eyes widened in shock and disbelief.
The Baali immediately uses his Obfuscate Discipline to completely disappear from Daniel's mind and senses. The hitter fires a few rounds into the empty air, but misses.
Markham reappears behind Daniel, growling. There is a crimson fury in those eyes of his. He kicks the assassin down. Daniel drops his gun and hits the floor with a thud.
Markham punches the hitter square in the face. Daniel groans, but doesn't stop. He rolls to the side and pulls out a bowie knife. He tauntingly points it at Markham, who's still towering over him.
The 2 begin to circle each other. They're both on their feet now. The assassin feints, and Markham goes for it.
Daniel stabs the vampire in the abdomen, but all Markham does is growl and punch the hitter in the gut.
The hitter rolls away and tries to stand up, but Markham kicks him down. Daniel grabs a nearby lamp and throws it at Markham, but the vampire easily catches it.
Under the flickering lights, Daniel can see Markham's fangs. He gulps, "What the fuck are you?"
Markham snarls and the hitter realizes he's staring at someone who isn't just a Federal Government employee.
Markham swipes his claws at the air, Daniel dodges, but trips. The vampire strikes the assassin's face with the lamp, breaking it and causing Daniel to whimper in pain as shards of glass dig into his face.
Markham strikes the hitter with another blow, knocking him down again. The assassin tries to crawl away, but the Baali snaps his leg like a twig.
"AAAAAAAAARGH!" Daniel cries out, the sounds of bone fracturing, tearing, and cracking filling the room.
Markham grabs the assassin by the back of his shirt and slams him face-first onto the ground. The vampire bites the back of the assassin's neck and he cries out, his blood pouring onto the floor.
Markham hungrily sates his inner Beast, draining this thug of every last drop of blood. He leaves the exsanguinated corpse and begins to look through the pockets on the dead guy's coat.
He finds a few generic IDs, a couple of pistol magazines, and some meds for managing pain and the like. He discards them all and stands up.
He paces a tight circle, rubbing his forehead with the tips of his fingers, "What the fuck was that all about? Who sent you?!" He looks at the lifeless corpse.
He sighs, "It can't be...t--there's no way..."
He recalls something from a few nights back and holds a piece of paper that the Sheriff gave him. He dials the number and waits.
As the phone rings, his eyes continuously dart to the lifeless corpse on his floor.
Daniel Percy was scum, by and large. He was a war veteran who just couldn't get enough of the killing and the carnage he had carried out on behalf of the almighty American Empire.
So, he sold his grim services to anyone with enough money to afford it. A cold, calculating, and effective killer. First for the gang colors of red, white, and blue, now for the highest bidders.
Sheriff Velma tells Markham she'll be there soon. The call ends and Markham begins to shove all of his things, his clothes, and his computer into his bag.
He unzips his suitcase and begins shoving clothes in, not caring if they're folded, clean, or wrinkled.
10 minutes later...
Sheriff Velma cautiously knocks on the door of room 1408. Markham slowly pulls it open, his voice low and weary, "Hi, Velma."
The Ventrue Sheriff nods at him, "Hello, Markham. Please, let me in."
Markham lets her in and closes the door. She sees the lifeless body on the floor.
She remarks, "Well, aren't you full of surprises? A friend of yours, I take it?"
Markham dryly replies, "I have no idea who this man is."
Sheriff Velma ducks down and goes through his IDs that have been scattered all across the floor. She frowns, "Ah, him."
Markham glares at her, "You know this guy?"
"In passing. I've heard of him. He's a hitman, a contract killer."
Markham raises his chin and prods, "How do you know this?"
"Rumors went around about how...Daniel Percy here killed a few kids back in '97."
Markham has a look of disgust on his face, "Jesus. What would he want with me?"
The Sheriff shrugs, "Well, I don't see any wooden stakes or lighters or kerosene, so we can rule out the Second Inquisition. It's hard to say what he would want with you."
Markham rolls a shoulder and groans, still in pain, "He shot me in the back. About 6 times. Stabbed me, too."
Sheriff Velma faintly chuckles, "It hasn't even been a week and you've already made enemies in this city. C'mon, we better get out of here before somebody reports something suspicious. Forget about paying for the room."
"But--"
Sheriff Velma holds her finger up, "Ah, forget about it. I'll handle the cleanup from here. Now, there's the question of where you're going to be sleeping for the day."
The Ventrue goes to the closest mirror and adjusts her hair a bit. She smooths her outfit, "We'll figure something out on the way. I assume you've packed your bags?"
The Baali nods and gestures to his hastily packed things, "Yes."
Sheriff Velma rolls her eyes, "You do know that you have to fold your clothes before putting them in, right? Ugh, forget it. I'll grab a bag. I think I've got a few ideas on where to put you for the day."
Markham reluctantly agrees, "Sure. I don't really have much of a choice, do I?"
Sheriff Velma quickly moves the corpse to the bathroom and shuts the door. She and Markham leave the room and head down the elevator. Sheriff Velma has a smug look on her face.
Markham, on the other hand, looks very tensed up. His Beast is still riled up. He can't believe this has happened to him.
He just wanted to get this investigation over with, get the hell out of this city, and get back home to familiar surroundings.
The elevator doors open and the 2 vampires exit via the service door. They walk into the parking lot and Sheriff Velma's sleek red Mustang convertible is waiting for them. She opens the trunk and tells Markham to put his luggage in the back, "Here, take the passenger's seat."
Sheriff Velma starts her car up, the engine elegantly purring. Markham puts on his seatbelt and tries to gather his composure.
The ride is silent, but windy. Sheriff Velma asks, "Anyone you know who might have it out for you, Markham?"
"No. Not really."
The wind blows Markham's chin-length hair all over the place. Sheriff Velma has her eyes on the road.
She asks, "You're sure?"
"I AM sure."
"Hmmm, and yet someone tried to kill you tonight. Notice I said 'kill' and not 'destroy'. Whoever hired that hitman didn't know you're a Kindred, so that's good."
Markham looks at her skeptically, "How is that good?"
The Sheriff responds, "It means the Masquerade remains intact, which in turn, makes my job easier. It means I can move about without fear of being discovered. Think, Markham, who'd want you dead?"
Markham is sure that nobody would wish such a thing upon him, "As I told you before- no one."
Sheriff Velma takes a few sharp left turns and stops at a traffic light. She muses, "Could it have something to do with whatever...or whoever it is you're supposed to be investigating on behalf of your employers?"
"That's certainly...a possibility. Maybe there's a connection."
"Like what?"
"I don't know. Something someone told me earlier tonight. What do you know about Luciano Donovan Jr.?"
The Sheriff lets out a long whistle, "Damn. So, you ARE investigating him, huh?"
The traffic light turns orange and the surrounding vehicles begin to rev their engines.
Markham reluctantly admits, "Yes, I am. Do you or Prince Antonio know him?"
"I've heard of him. But neither of us know him personally."
The light turns green and Sheriff Velma puts her foot down, "Why? Why does the SEC want to investigate him?"
"I'm not comfortable sharing the details of an ongoing investigation."
Sheriff Velma grimaces, "Well, you better get comfortable sharing, because someone tried to murder you tonight. And these hitters...they don't give up so easily. You better believe they'll try again, soon."
On the way to wherever they're going, Markham begrudgingly divulges the details of the SEC's investigation into Luciano Donovan Jr. and Paul Cho.
For her part, Sheriff Velma nods along and remains silent as Markham does all the talking.
Eventually, Markham is driven into a long, semi-lit, and mostly-clean neighborhood. A few people are sitting on their lowrider cars, listening to the radio.
Sheriff Velma parks her car and commands Markham to stay close to her. They walk down the streets and pass the occasional house, or bodega. Eventually, they reach a large garage.
Loud Spanish music is blasting inside. Markham and Sheriff Velma walk to the back of the building. They see a few Hispanic people sitting down and drinking from bottles.
Markham stops in his tracks, "You brought me to Gangrel territory? Their Primogen was pretty clear the last time I saw him- he doesn't want my...kind around here."
Sheriff Velma dismissively shrugs. The assembled Gangrel in the garage all look at the Baali standing there. Their clothes are loose and baggy, some have dope tats, some are shirtless, whilst others continue to drink blood from beer bottles or blood bags.
Pedro is under a car, busy with repairs, but he slides out on a rolling board when he hears Markham's voice. He sees Sheriff Velma standing there. He and his crew give her a respectful nod, "Sheriff V."
His eyes immediately fixate on Markham and he bares his claws and fangs, "The fuck did I say to you about not entering our territory, devil worshipper?!"
He growls, but Sheriff Velma stops him from charging at the Baali. She stands in between the angry Feral and the tired Baali.
Pedro angrily glares at the both of them, but Markham holds his ground. He doesn't look all that surprised to see this much hostility towards him.
"What the fuck is this pendejo doing on my turf, huh?!" Pedro explodes. The other Ferals ready themselves for a fight as well.
Sheriff Velma gives them a stern look and commands them to back the hell off. They're clearly not used to being given orders by any other Kindred except their Primogen, but they do back off, nonetheless.
Pedro keeps his eyes trained on the Baali, his nostrils flaring, "What the hell is going on here, Velma?! Why'd you bring this cabrn (ES: bastard) here?!"
Sheriff Velma patiently explains Markham's current predicament.
Pedro scoffs and dismissively waves his hand, "Fuckin' devil worshiper brought it on himself. We're not a shelter. Speaking of, put him up in 1 of those shelters you and the Prince use as feeding grounds. He'd fit in 1 of those fucking storage units, heh."
The other Gangrel laugh and taunt the Baali as he and the Sheriff continue to stand there.
Pedro wipes his hands with a cloth nearby and sits on a chair. He folds his legs, interlocks his fingers behind his head, and leans back, "It's nothing personal. We're just a bunch of tight-knight Cholos, y'know."
He glances over at Markham and snickers. The others do, as well.
The garage is quite well-lit and is capable of holding multiple cars at once. Bright white lights illuminate the entire space. There's a nice TV and some music in the background, but everyone is staring at the Baali.
He can't even blame them. His mere presence seems to upset them for some reason.
Sheriff Velma walks over to a random car and looks it over. Apparently, it's being modified. Pedro, still in that chair, glances around and yells out to someone to put the music back on, "Yo, chica! More tunes!" he points to the speaker.
The music comes back on and Sheriff Velma heaves a sigh of frustration. She turns it off and walks back to Markham. She speaks with the Gangrel Primogen in low tones, trying not to aggravate things any further.
Pedro leans back, his chair dangerously creaking, "V, I'm gonna be real with you here- we don't want no devil worshipers on our turf. We don't fuck with that kinda shit and we ain't gonna start now."
He vaguely gestures, "We got a good thing here, a good rep with the mortals in our hood. We don't need that...freaky shit to come in here and mess that all up."
The other Ferals nod along to that, some murmur and growl. Sheriff Velma stands there with a cool demeanor, "He'll only be here for a few nights, Pedro--"
"A few nights?! Sheriff V, are you fucking crazy?! Do you know what the Baali in this city, vatos like him, have done around here??"
Markham steps forward and inquires, "No, but I wanna know."
Pedro scoffs and sneers, "Fuck. It...forget it. My mind's already made up. The Demon can sleep his day away under a goddamn bridge for all I care. You think this is MY problem!?"
Markham shakes his head and walks off, but Pedro gets to his feet, "Hey! I better not see that Baali face of yours around here or else--"
Sheriff Velma shoots Pedro a stern glare, "Enough of that talk. Know your place, Feral."
Pedro growls at Markham, "The fuck is going on here, anyway, Velma? Why do you want me to house this...this thing? It's not my problem that he's got assassins out for his head."
Markham keeps his cool, even in the face of the Primogen's fury, "I guess I'll be leaving, then. Sorry for uh...wasting your time or interrupting whatever it is you were doing with your buddies here."
Pedro shakes his head, "Tch. Whatever. Just make yourself scarce from this hood, Demon Worshiper."
Markham glances over at Sheriff Velma and she gives him a slightly apologetic look. He knew this would happen. She escorts him out of the garage and thanks Pedro for his time.
Pedro snaps his fingers and the music goes back on, "Keep your devil worshipping self the hell outta my hood or you're gonna find your ass in a lot more pain. Pendejo!"
He hollers out, "And stay the fuck away from all our goddamn pets!"
The other Gangrel go back to whatever it is they were up to, but a few of them are keeping their keen eyes on Markham and Sheriff Velma as they leave.
As they're walking out of Pedro's garage and back into the streets, Sheriff Velma sighs and shakes her head, "Ugh, that was a complete and utter--"
Markham dryly interjects, "Waste of time?"
"Hmm. Finding you a temporary Haven in this city is no easy matter. Do you have any friends nearby that you could possibly stay with?" she asks, hopefully.
Markham's jaw drops, "What?! What friends do you think I have here in the city?"
Sheriff Velma sighs again, "Never mind, never mind."
As the duo walk back to the Sheriff's red car, a man whistles and makes all sorts of weird noises, "Hey, hey, devil man! Pssst, pssst!"
Markham's not sure if this man is trying to call a lost cat or if he's talking to him, "Umm...me?"
"Yes, yes! Devil man, over here." The man, who is short and thin, motions to Markham. Markham hesitantly approaches him and he introduces himself as, "Diego."
Diego looks to be in his mid-20s. He's got a slightly tanned complexion and his brown eyes are constantly darting all over the place, as though he's expecting some kind of danger to rear its head at any moment. He's wearing a knock-off varsity jacket, a baggy pair of shorts, and his cap is on backwards.
Like Pedro, he is a Cholo of Clan Gangrel. Sheriff Velma sees Markham approach this guy, she frowns and warns the Baali, "Careful."
She's wary of this Feral, just like she was wary of Markham when they initially met, but Diego doesn't appear to have any ill intent.
The Feral looks at Markham from head to toe, almost impressed, "Wow, aren't you a tall glass of cold milk, heh. Heard you was looking for a place to lay low and be safe?"
"You heard correctly," Markham answers plainly. Sheriff Velma crosses her arms over her chest and stares at this Diego guy.
Diego is a little unnerved by Sheriff Velma's stare, "I uh...I might have a place for you, but--"
Sheriff Velma directly asks, "Why are YOU helping him when it's clear that the rest of your Clan isn't willing to?"
Diego looks back and forth, "Uh, because Pedro ain't my boss? I--I mean, don't get me wrong, chica, he's a good homie and all, but we see a vato in distress and we gotta help, y'know?"
Sheriff Velma remains unconvinced and intensifies her gaze.
Diego holds out his hands, palms facing outwards, "Whoa, whoa, easy, lady. Easy. I'm just trying to help an ese out, y'know, be a good playa and all that stuff."
Diego nods at Markham and asks, "Whaddaya say, vato?"
"Where exactly are you planning on letting me stay?" Markham inquires, somewhat suspicious of this new Feral.
Diego smiles, "My Haven. I live there with my girlfriend. She's Gangrel, too. Don't worry, you can day-sleep in the basement. It's pretty much empty after we cleared out the junk that was accumulating over the years. But, she's gotta see you first."
Markham raises an eyebrow, "Hmm. Why?"
Diego sighs, "Well, 'cuz I'm not gonna let some strange white guy who was recently being chased down by assassins into my Haven without asking her first. That house used to belong to her abuela, so she's pretty damn protective of it. C'mon, follow me."
He heads to a nearby black pickup truck and motions to Markham to follow him. Sheriff Velma stands there with a wary gaze.
Diego looks back and says to the Sheriff, "Don't worry, I ain't gonna pull nothing, alright? Devil man's as safe with me as he can possibly be."
The Ventrue Sheriff sighs and goes to get Markham's stuff from her trunk. She loads it into the back of Diego's black truck.
The Baali thanks her and climbs in the front seat, his legs squished up against the glovebox.
Diego chuckles, "Whoa, you really ARE a tall dude, heh. You need any extra clothes or whatever? I mean, we might have something in your size, but you're free to anything I've got in my own closet."
Markham regards Diego for a few moments, still skeptical, "You're being...kind to me. Unlike your other buddies who wanted to pounce on me and rip me to shreds."
Diego nods, "Ah, well...the Gangrel around here...they're kinda..." he chuckles, "You could say they're pretty scared. A lotta us are undocumented. So, we know a thing or 2 about surviving..."
The Feral starts his truck up and wistfully adds, "We've been living here for so long it feels like forever, heh."
He pulls away and turns at a sharp left. He chuckles, "Yeah, you're a vato alright. All you gotta do is sit there and be quiet. Play nice and mi casa es su casa (ES: my house is your house). OK?"
"Sure."
Sheriff Velma drives her own way while Diego and Markham head off to Diego's Haven. He and Markham continue to have small talk on the way, getting to know each other a little bit.
Diego was Embraced into the Gangrel Clan all the way back in the 1980s. Ever since then, he's been riding with a Bande of Cholos and keeping himself occupied.
He's originally from El Salvador and had to flee when the Salvadoran Civil War broke out. Ever since then, he's lived in the United States. He was actually on his way to the court (for something related to his papers) when he was Embraced.
He rides around with his Bande (or Coterie as some would call it) and tries to keep a low profile, which is not easy for a guy like him. He and his pals have a good rep with the mortals in their hood and they try their best to keep it that way.
He volunteers with efforts to help restore a local community center that has been decimated thanks to decades of cuts and neglect by city and state politicians. He and his fellow Ferals do their best to keep things in order, even if it means taking a few bold (and ofttimes wild) risks here and there.
As he tells Markham all this, the Baali remains quiet and simply listens.
Markham asks, "So the Gangrel in this city are all uh...Cholos or Chicanos, then?"
"A majority of them, yeah. A lot of us even share the same Sires."
"Huh, interesting. So, why do you hate me...and my Bloodline so much? What have the Baali in this city done to incur your wrath?" Markham asks, genuinely curious.
Diego rolls a shoulder and stops his truck on the side of the road.
He grimaces and winces a few times, "It's...a long story. If you asked me that, then it means you ain't affiliated with them, correct?"
"Correct. I don't really care much for certain aspects of my Bloodline."
Diego faintly laughs and pulls out a picture of himself and his girlfriend along with a dog. His girlfriend is in her 20s. She's got long curly hair that reaches past her shoulders. She has nice full lips and lovely brown eyes.
He passes the photo to Markham and he looks it over, "Her name's Marisol."
Markham makes an assumption, "Did--did the Baali do something to her?"
"Whoa, whoa, easy. No. Thankfully. But...they did do something bad to her Famulus."
"Her what?"
"You ever heard of Ghouls, Markham? It's like that, but with animals and it's done via the Animalism Discipline. Most of the time, anyway."
Markham shifts in his seat, "So, what happened?"
Diego takes a deep breath, "So, some homies from your Bloodline, the Baali, were doing their little blood sacrifices and experiments or whatever. They took Marisol's dog..."
A look of uneasiness forms on the Feral's face, "Her dog was like a part of her, you know? Anyway, she tried to get that German Shepherd back, but, you can already guess where this is going."
"Jesus. T--They what, killed the dog?"
Diego corrects Markham, "Sacrificed the dog is more like it. Her Famulus ain't the only one that's gone missing, if you catch my drift."
Markham's expression changes into one of pity, "I'm...I'm so sorry, Diego. I--I have nothing to do with those things, but--"
Diego nods and assures Markham, "Yeah, yeah, it's all good. I know, man, I know. I know you have nothing to do with it, otherwise you wouldn't be in the front seat of my ride."
Markham clarifies, "So, the Baali in this city abduct animals for sacrifices?"
Diego shrugs, "I guess so. That's the story I heard from others who know a lot more. As such, we Gangrel here have good reasons to be wary of...people like you. That's all I'm gonna say."
Diego looks out his side window, "So, there you have it, Markham."
"Is it too much of a leap to assume that Pedro has lost more than 1 Famulus?"
Diego sourly snickers, "Try 7 of them. Dogs, cats, iguanas, hell, even cute little kittens and puppies ain't off limits to your kind."
Markham lowers his head.
Diego remarks, "It's funny, y'know. When they did that, we just stopped Blood-Binding any animals we came across. What's the point, we figured. The Baali were taking 'em all anyways."
He laughs again and follows it up with a deep and long sigh, "That's all the history lesson for tonight."
Markham glances over, "I thought the Gangrel around here were better at protecting their pets?"
Diego starts the truck up, "Of course, the other reason we're so scared of your Bloodline's interest in animal-sacrifice is because some of us do like to transform into animals every now and then."
"..."
Diego chuckles, "Let loose, run wild, y'know. Put 2 and 2 together and there's a chance that a Baali might grab 1 of us while we're still in our animal form and turn us into Satan's next happy meal or whatever it is they do down there."
The Feral shudders in fear when he thinks about what happens to all the animals that've been sacrificed (or experimented upon) by this city's Baali.
He shakes the thoughts out of his head, "Anyways, enough gloominess for 1 night, heh."
Diego says it's gonna be a long drive due to the heavy traffic, so Markham asks, "What's your Unlife like, then?"
Diego eases his foot off the gas pedal a bit, "What do you mean by that, hmmm?"
"Just a little more curious about the man who's letting me stay in his Haven."
The Outlander's expression softens, "Ah, fair enough. Well, It's worth mentioning that I run with the 5th Street Cholos."
"Is that the uh...some sort of gang?" Markham inquires.
Diego snickers, "Nah, it's our Bande, or Burrow...or Coterie as some like to call it."
Markham proceeds to ask, "Why me? Why are you helping me despite what the Baali in this city have done to your pets?"
Diego answers, a distant look on his face, "I see a vato in distress and I gotta help. It's just who I am as a human being, Markham. I know what it's like to be in need."
"You mentioned you were undocumented. How did that come about?" Markham asks. He's very curious about this Feral and what kind of (Un)life he's had.
Diego releases a long and stressful sigh, "You can thank that pendejo Bill Clinton for making it harder for us to stay here, but that's a story for another time, yeah? We're almost at my girl's place."
Markham leans back in the seat and watches the streets of Flimont City fly by.
Diego pipes up, "It's been tough for us since 1996. Heh, between me and you, I wouldn't mind it if your Baali buddies took a few of Bill Clinton's pets in their sacrificial rituals and shit."
Markham doesn't answer that. The truck keeps rolling and Diego grins, "We're almost there. You're gonna love my girl's place, she's really cool. And hot."
"How long have you been together?"
Diego clicks his tongue and shifts from side to side, "Eh, about 4 years. She has a master's degree and works in a real fancy office, but she doesn't really talk about it a whole lot."
Markham is very quiet throughout most of it. He just wants to make it through the remainder of the night and get some rest as soon as possible. The toll of killing a man (even one as repulsive as Daniel Percy the hitman) weighs him down greatly.
He's not used to killing another person. In fact, he's not even ever killed anyone before. Not in the way that he had just done to the hitman, anyway.
It was like something inside of him, begging to be let out, to be unleashed. The Beast within him was screaming out. It wanted blood. And it took what it wanted.
All he could think about at that moment was ending the assassin.
After a while, the truck pulls up a modest-looking house. The windows are all tinted and the house is a bit old. The grass is a little overgrown, but not enough to where it's an eyesore. The house has a large garage on the side, which Diego uses.
Markham disembarks from the pickup truck, as does Diego. The Gangrel helps the Baali with his suitcase and bags. He takes him to the back of the garage, "Our Haven!" he proudly announces.
Standing at the doorway is a woman wearing office casuals, she looks exhausted and has a very tired and weary look on her face. She wears a layered septum ring and has a beauty spot on her left cheek.
Marisol, Diego's girlfriend, looks confused by the fact that Diego is bringing this man to her place. She asks him, "Who's this, D?"
"Oh, uh, hi. This is Markham...err, what's your last name again?"
"Reed."
Diego shakily smiles, "Yeah, this here is Markham Reed. He'll be our guest for a uh--"
Marisol takes her boyfriend to the side and lowers her voice, "D, are you crazy? Bringing a complete stranger to--to our Haven? Is he even Kindred??"
Diego tells her, "Yeah, he's with the Baali--"
Marisol gasps, her eyes widening in disbelief, "The Baali? Like, THE Baali??"
Diego sighs, "Yeah, them, but also not with them. This one's different. He's not from around these parts and ain't affiliated with them devil worshipers, alright?"
Marisol gulps and lowers her voice, "You know how our experience with them has been, right? And yet you--"
Diego quickly cuts her off, "Look, it's not like that. I know what we've both been through, but this one...this one's different, alright?"
"How do we know he won't cause trouble for us?"
Diego allays her fears, "He's been through a lot. Not as much as either of us have been through, of course, but those gray eyes of his. He's seen some shit, that's for sure."
Marisol concedes with a lazy wave of the hand, "Fine. But, he takes the basement."
Diego smirks, "My thoughts exactly. Don't worry, I'll bring his stuff in. You go in and throw your feet up. How was work tonight?"
Marisol sharply exhales, "Same shit, D. Still, I should at least be grateful I have a job..." Her tone of voice reflects her mood, which is quite sour.
She looks over at Markham, "I'm Marisol. Clan Gangrel. Nice to meet you."
Markham nods, "Nice to meet you, too."
Markham clears his throat and quickly adds, "I assure you I have no intention of causing you or Diego any trouble while I'm here."
Marisol throws herself on the couch and unbuttons her blouse a little bit, "Alright, Markham Reed. I'll take you at your word."
Diego walks back out and brings the suitcase in, "There. All done. You want the house tour, Mr. Reed?"
Marisol shoots her boyfriend a somewhat baleful glance. Diego notices and quickly apologizes, "Sorry, sorry. Maybe another time, Markham. Right. I'm just gonna show him where he's sleeping."
The interior of this house appears very homely and intimate. There's a shelf full of pictures of Diego and Marisol, along with their friends and extended family members.
The wooden floorboards creak a bit. The walls are all painted a nice light-green and there's a TV, a couch, and a couple of chairs. The kitchen looks somewhat grimy and the lights flicker a few times.
The basement seems to have been recently cleaned out, judging by the lack of junk and clutter. Diego walks over to a corner of the room and opens a wooden door. He and Markham walk down the stairs and Markham looks around the room.
The floor is rough, there's a hard mattress on the far end, a single light bulb dangles from the ceiling and provides limited illumination, and there are a few old magazines on the nearby nightstand.
The room is slightly larger than a prison cell, but the Baali doesn't mind. He's used to day-sleeping in uncomfortable places.
Diego does a wide, sweeping gesture, "Ta-Da! I know it's not what you might be used to, but it's all we got for you, homie."
Markham is grateful, "This will do fine. Thank you, Diego. I really appreciate you and Marisol going out of your way to help me like this."
"Hey, no sweat, man. You're a cool guy, you know that?"
"Ah, yeah. Hmm."
Diego pats Markham on the back, "No problem. I'm just gonna go up and massage my girl's feet. It's a thing we do. It helps relieve her stress. Office work is so...it's pretty loco, heh."
Markham's not sure if Diego's trying to tell him something, "Sure, sure. I'm gonna turn in for now, anyway."
"Come up if you need anything. I'll get you some blankets and pillows later."
Diego goes back upstairs to give his girlfriend a foot massage, how cute.
Markham blows a raspberry and sits on the mattress. It's quite hard, almost too much so.
He lays down and closes his eyes. He keeps seeing the face of that assassin in his mind's eye. He can even feel the aftertaste of the man's blood on the tip of his tongue. He recalls the hitman's surprised look when he had gotten up after being shot 6 times, the fear in Daniel's eyes...
Markham had never killed before, but he was left with little other choice in the matter.
Back at the hotel, Sheriff Velma and her contacts clean up the room, dispose of the body, and pay the bill. She's efficient, organized, and level-headed throughout it all.
She has her own system of getting rid of bodies and making sure nothing can be traced back to Markham, let alone vampires.
It's quite impressive.
After all has been said and done, Sheriff Velma makes her way back to her Haven. She can't shake the feeling that Markham's in a world of trouble and is being pulled into something big.
She informs Prince Antonio of everything that's happened so far and of what she's seen. He's worried as well, but has every faith in his Sheriff's ability to keep things under wraps.
Back at the Haven of these 2 Outlanders, Marisol and Diego cuddle together on the sofa. Marisol softly moans, that foot massage has worked its magic.
Diego giggles, "Let it all out, chica. Let it all out."
Marisol asks her boyfriend, "We sure we can trust your new guest, D?"
"He's a survivor like us. It's wrong to turn away somebody in distress. Isn't that what your abuela used to say all the time?"
Marisol sighs, "Yeah. I miss her, D. Were--Were we right in clearing out all that stuff from the basement? A lot of it was hers, y'know."
Diego shakes his head, "I'm sure she wouldn't mind. She'd probably prefer a good, clean basement than a bunch of her junk lying around and gathering dust and other nasty shit."
Marisol yawns, "True. At least our guest can make use of her old mattress. That thing is harder than rock."
"Yeah, no kidding, hahaha!"
Marisol rolls over and curls her body up a bit. She lays her head on Diego's chest and asks, "What's next, D?"
"The sun's coming up soon. So, we better get to bed, close the curtains, shut the windows, all that stuff."
Marisol nuzzles her face into her boyfriend's chest, "Ugh, I'm so tired. I have to do this whole thing tomorrow again, blurgh."
"Mmm. Me too. Let's just try to get as much rest as we can...for now."
He strokes her curly hair and plays around with it, "So, how was the office? Any news on when you're gonna get a faster computer?"
Marisol growls, "I don't want to talk about work, D. Anything but that. What about you? How was the garage?"
"It was good. Had to help some vatos fix up a truck. Had some customers come in. It was pretty chill. A few lowriders. Nothing to write home about."
Marisol's eyes flutter, "That's good, that's good."
"How's your sister?"
"She's...distressed about our abuela's passing. She wants to come visit sometime this week."
Diego sucks some air through his teeth and winces, "It's gonna be hella tough explaining to her how we're still in our 20s, heh. Any way you can tell her to...not come over?"
Marisol groans, "Hmph, yeah. I'll try, Diego. I'll try. How's your work doing? Still building houses and picking fruits for Gringos who want us deported or worse?"
Diego rolls a shoulder, "I'm just hoping it'll all go away someday. It's nothing new, chica. Some old lady called me a 'beaner' earlier in the evening. I told her I was from El Salvador, but you know how these people are."
Marisol scoffs, "Ignorant. Pfft. And I overheard someone talking shit about Mexico."
"Anyone asking about your papers yet?"
"No, gracias a Dios (ES: thank God). How 'bout you?"
Diego answers, "Some pig pulled me over and racially profiled us when I was dropping a few hombres off in that warehouse earlier. Said he wanted to know where the hell I was going and what the hell I was doing. You know, the usual."
Marisol sighs, "Same shit, different night. I just hope we can continue to survive. To stay hidden. I can't believe some people still haven't been able to accept that we're here to stay."
Diego's tone is somewhat harsh, "Not everyone in the US is bad, chica. But I get what you say. Being called nasty names, spat on, and falsely accused does a number on a person, I know."
Marisol lightly pats her boyfriend's chest, "I'm not saying there's no good people in this country, Diego. I'm just saying we gotta be careful about who we can and can't trust."
"We can trust the vato down in our basement..."
"I hope so, D. After what the Baali did to my dog, I'm not sure I can trust any of them ever again."
Diego's expression hardens, "That was a long time ago, Marisol. I know the Baali are bad news 'round these parts, but we have to make allowances for the fact that some of them aren't..."
Marisol cuts in, "Completely crazy? Who kills pets, D? And WHY? What kind of secretive rituals and sacrifices are they doing in this city, anyways?"
"I--I try not to think about it too much, chica. Look, why don't you get ready for bed? I'll make sure our guest has everything he needs for the night."
Before Diego can leave, Marisol asks, "Is--is he trustworthy, D? I don't want him making a call to the immigration people or something."
Diego's tone is firm, "If he's smart enough to keep his mouth shut, he's smart enough to know that he doesn't have a reason to do that, right? Right?"
Marisol remains unsure, "Hmm, yeah. But--"
Diego interrupts, "Look, chica, I got this. He's our guest, but he's a grown man, not a child. Besides, I don't think that he's the type to rat us out to those pendejos at immigration or whatever it is they're called."
He lightly kisses his girlfriend's forehead, "Go on, get ready for bed. I'll be in soon. Don't worry. I love you."
Marisol faintly laughs and smiles, stroking her man's cheek, "I love you too, D. More than you could ever imagine."
Diego heads downstairs, his footsteps heavy and plodding. Markham's eyes are closed, but he's still awake. He hears Diego's footsteps on the floor above and the sound of the floorboard creaking.
Diego pokes his head in and raps his knuckles on the door, "All good, devil man? All comfy and settled in?" he snickers.
He comes closer, "I got you a few blankets and pillows. Sorry 'bout the smell. It's what Marisol's abuela last slept on. It's all we got. I tried to wash it a few times, but you know..."
Markham sits up and stretches, "No worries, Diego. I don't mind."
Markham stands aside while Diego lays a sheet on the hard mattress and fluffs the tough pillows. Markham's surprised at the fact that Diego is taking the time to do this for him.
He's appreciative, but he keeps that to himself.
Diego dusts his hands and grins, "There! All done! I uh...I hope it's to your satisfaction, Mr. Reed."
Markham politely nods, "It'll be fine, Diego. And thank...you and Marisol for opening up your Haven to me. If you weren't around, I'd have to shell out extra cash in some seedy motel or find some trunk to day-sleep in."
Diego chuckles, "Yeah, we like helping people out, y'know? That's why we live the way we live, helping vatos in distress. Survival, Markham..." he trails off and looks around.
After a pause, the Outlander says, "Survival Instincts. That's our Clan's Bane. I don't know how it is for others, but I'm pretty hypervigilant to dangers I may not be able to tangle with."
Markham muses, "And yet you took a chance on me, a total stranger. How can you be so sure?"
"We have a good intuition for this kind of stuff, Markham. My girlfriend and I...we've been through a lot. We just kinda feel what's right and what's wrong."
Markham responds, "It seems like it's something more than a simple feeling, Diego." He gets a faraway look in his eyes.
Diego raises an eyebrow at Markham's cryptic words. The Gangrel shrugs, "Well, if I had to say it in 1 word- survival. That's what we Kindred gotta do, regardless of Clan or Bloodline. Survival's in our nature."
Markham's expression changes, "That's right. Survival is our nature. It--It's--" the Baali's lips begin to shake.
Diego gives Markham a sideways look, "You doing alright there, homie?"
Markham quickly shakes himself out of his daze, "Yes, yes, I'm fine. Sorry about that. I--I'm just exhausted." He lays back down.
The Outlander nods, "It's all good, homes. You need your rest as much as the next vato. Sun's coming up soon. Don't worry, none of it will affect you down here, heh."
"Thanks, Diego. And uh, 1 more thing..." Markham pauses, "I--I'm truly grateful for this."
Diego chuckles, "Eyy, it's no biggie, devil man. It's nice to have a fresh and pale face around here, haha!"
"What if Pedro finds out?"
Diego clicks his tongue, "He won't, and even if he does, this place is still MY Haven, well it's also Marisol's, so he's gotta respect the space, right?"
Markham raises an eyebrow, "What if he doesn't?"
Diego sighs, "Don't worry, man. It's gonna be fine. Like I said, it's our Haven and Pedro respects other people's turf."
"Hmm."
Diego shuts the door and heads off to his bedroom. Marisol is already tucked in. Their bedroom is quite small, most of its space taken up by the big bed that the 2 Ferals day-sleep in.
It's a queen-size with a scratched white headboard. The sheets are nice and smooth, but they're not made of silk, which Marisol prefers.
Diego strips to his boxers and gets into bed with his girlfriend. Marisol asks, "What took you so long, D?"
"I was just helping our guest get settled in. You closed the windows, right?"
"Of course I did, D. And I made sure the curtains are nice and tight."
Marisol and Diego lay there, side by side. Marisol snuggles up and holds her man close, "You're the best, D."
"I try, chica. I really try. It's you who's the best, with her fancy office job and stuff."
Marisol scoffs, "It's only slightly better than something in the service industry, that much is certain."
Diego replies, "But, we're survivors. It's what I am, it's what you are. Hell, even our buddy downstairs is a survivor, right? W--We gotta help each other, right?"
Marisol kisses her boyfriend's neck, "I know, D. I love you."
Diego ruffles his girlfriend's hair, "I love you too, mi corazon (ES: my heart)."
The 2 Ferals cuddle up together as the sun rises over Flimont City. Diego and Marisol are fast asleep in their bedroom, slowly shutting down and allowing themselves to be pulled in by the darkness of the day-sleep.
Markham's eyes flutter, and even he begins to slowly give in to the encroaching pull of the day-sleep. As he feels himself slipping away, something his Sire had said a long time ago creeps into his mind.
"Survival's the game we all play."
That was but 1 of many of Burt's wise and witty quips that had stuck with Markham through the years. He recalls his Sire's anecdotes, his lessons, his words of wisdom and guidance.
"Survival is the game we all play."
And with that, Markham's eyes shut and he falls into the dark, welcoming void of the day-sleep.
Chapter 6: Lowriders, Outriders
The sun shines down upon this city, hot and unrelenting as can be. Mortals begin to awaken and go about their whole routine of work, shopping, errands, school, or whatever.
Luciano Jr. is completely hungover, his clothes are messy and there's a tear in his pants. His head is pounding and he feels a bit nauseous. He rubs his temples and winces.
He's still in Mauve's Haven. Mauve herself has locked her bedroom door and fallen to the day-sleep, just like any other Kindred inevitably would.
Luciano Donovan Jr. bangs on Mauve's door and announces, his words slurred, "Hey! Heeeeeeey! I'm...headin' home now! I uh...I think we ord--ordered too much pizza. You can keep it, OK?!"
No reply.
Luciano groans and shuts his eyes tightly, a nasty headache forming. He thinks, "Fuck it. I'm heading back to my joint. Goddamn, what a night."
He trudges through the house, bumping into everything, and spilling some Fanta as he bumbles around. He grabs his stuff and heads outside.
It's only when he's a block away from the house that he realizes he's left his phone inside. He mutters some choice words and turns his car around.
Paul is coming around, his nose red from all the cocaine he was snorting throughout the night. He wakes up to a foul smell emanating from somewhere in the house.
He follows the smell, wondering where it's coming from. When he rounds a corner, he finds a bunch of pizzas carelessly tossed on the floor, along with some soda cans and discarded needles.
Flies are buzzing around this disgusting trash pile. Paul grimaces in disgust and gags at the smell.
He notices a bra lying on the couch and picks it up. It's not his, so he wonders whose it is. He notices traces of white powder inside the cup.
Paul is shocked and confused, but his face quickly turns into one of recognition, "Oh, shit...shit. Shit. Shit. Shit. Shit. Shit."
Now the memory is coming back. Apparently, Mr. Cho sniffed some coke from one of the bra cups and got quite high. It was all part of some dare or something.
Paul feels a pit in his stomach and shakily laughs, "Oh, man. T--That was awesome!"
Luciano barges in and frantically looks around for the phone. There's a few other people still here, either snoring loudly or passed out from the wild partaying.
Paul's heart skips a beat when he sees Luciano come in, "Whoa! Oh...oh, shit. It's you."
He clears his throat awkwardly, "What--what happened last night, man?"
Luciano chuckles, "You went wild. I went wild. The whole place went wild, man! Damn, it's been a while since I've partied hard."
Paul searches for his pants amongst this sea of tangled limbs, plastic wrappers, and empty pizza boxes, "A--Are you serious, man? Oh, man..."
Luciano's eyebrows go up and down, "I'm serious, man. I had to drag you to a corner and cool you off. You really do know how to bury your beak in some blow, huh?"
Paul shakily sighs, his lower lip quivering, "Shiiiit."
His tone is frantic, "You think anyone's ever gonna find out, man?"
"Find out what? The cops came by and I gave 'em a little...something for their trouble, heh."
Paul remembers that and he shoots his friend a disapproving look, "I still don't like it when we--you have to do that. I'd much prefer playing within the rules."
Luciano sneers, "Oh, sure. You're always so...so...polite, aren't you, Paulie? It's fucking boring, man. You're boring when you get all uptight and legal with me. I already got Gordon on my ass about this stuff, I don't need you doing it, too!"
Paul ignores that and finally finds his pants behind the table. How they ended up there is anyone's guess. He slips into them and pulls the zipper up.
He looks around and asks, "Man, who--who are these people?"
Luciano laughs, "I think some of them are the investors. Hey, you got a sharpie on ya? I wanna do a lil funny thing. You know, a little prank, heh."
"Uh, yeah. Hold on," Paul fumbles around the nearby drawers and retrieves a sharpie. He offers it to his best friend, "Here."
Luciano can barely hold the sharpie, the effects of the Fanta mixed with booze still in his system.
"I don't think I can really hold the damn thing, man."
"Just write something! Sheesh, I don't care. What are you gonna write, huh, huh?"
Luciano sneers, "I'm thinking, wait, wait."
Their intended victim is an older-looking man with graying hair. Drool is leaking from his mouth and his head is resting on the table.
Luciano scrawls a few words on the man's forehead and he drops the sharpie, his hand shaking.
Paul giggles and suddenly feels the urge to take a piss. He quickly makes his way to the bathroom and pees in the sink. The toilet is clogged up with used condoms and a few bottles of very expensive alcohol.
He shakes his head and returns to the living room, "Oh, fuck..."
Luciano, now sober and clear-headed, looks over at his friend, "What's up, P-Money?"
Paul beckons to the bathroom, "It's like a horror flick in there, man. I had to take a leak in the sink 'cause someone fucking clogged the toilet."
Luciano grimaces, "What? Are you fucking serious? Who the fuck did that?"
"Who the fuck knows, man?"
"Shit. I--I guess I gotta hire someone to get this cleaned up. I know Mauve's practically used to living in shit like this, but I got a rep to uphold and all. I mean, what if people start asking questions?"
Paul shrugs, "What if they do? I--I mean, it's not like we were doing anything wrong. It's all in good fun, dude. Right? Right?!"
Luciano concurs, "Yeah. All good fun. C'mon, let's leave this place. I'll send someone over to clean it up in the afternoon."
Before leaving, Luciano bangs on Mauve's bedroom door, "HEY! Sleepyhead! We're leaving! Someone's comin' 'round in the afternoon to uh--"
He stops and looks around at the mess, "--do some VERY LIGHT cleaning. Don't worry, we didn't make too much of a mess. N--not like it matters, anyway since I'm the one who pays for this place."
Paul calls out, "Yeah, don't you fucking forget that, Mauve!"
LDJ calms his buddy down, "Easy, easy, she got the point."
He bangs on the door once more, "Keep doing what you're doing; keep laying them golden eggs, alright?"
He frowns and tries the handle, it's locked, "I said, ALRIGHT?!"
The Malkavian is deep in her day-sleep, completely and totally oblivious to the world around her.
LDJ throws his hands up and shrugs. The 2 men leave and return to their vehicles. The others eventually come around, get their stuff and get the fuck out of Mauve's Haven.
As he drives, LDJ tells Paul, "What a fuckin' night, man. Goddamn, we really are moving on up in the world, huh?"
Paul keeps touching his nose, "Mm-hmm. Let's hope your golden goose lays us a billion dollar egg soon."
Luciano agrees with a laugh, "We'll see. We'll see. Oh, shit, I better call Gordon and ask him how everything went, y'know with the--"
Paul holds up a finger, "I--I don't wanna hear about it. The less I know about that, the better. Honestly, I--I uh...don't like that we had to resort to violence to get rid of this SEC guy."
Luciano retorts, "Then why were you so excited about it yesterday, huh? As I recall, you wanted to meet the fucking hitman and shit."
Paul gets all erratic, "I was j--just saying that to play along, y'know. I wish we could have paid off this SEC guy or something along those lines. But Gordon...Gordon's good at what he does. He knows how to handle it, y'know?"
Luciano's expression grows dark, "Yeah. He knows how to handle it alright. Call him up for me."
Paul's vision is very blurry, so he struggles to see the numbers on LDJ's car phone, "Uh...which one do you press...?"
Luciano slams the brakes and snatches the phone from Paul's clumsy hands, "Jesus, Paul! It's a fucking phone. It ain't that hard."
Paul's hands start to tremble, his eyes darting around, as if trying to find some happy dust he can snort, "Mmm. I...I feel sick. I'm gonna--I'm gonna throw up."
Luciano rolls his eyes, "Jesus, dude. I ain't going back for the blow now. But don't worry, I stashed it in a safe place."
Paul's eyes widen in shock, "Y--You did what?! Are you fucking crazy?! Do you know how much that shit cost me?!"
"Easy, alright? It's in a SAFE PLACE, OK?! Goddamn. You know what, just...let me talk to Gordon now. Alright?"
The car is stopped in the middle of the street and people are honking their horns and yelling at them.
Luciano yells back, "Yeah, fuck you too!"
The cars go around LDJ's vehicle and continue on their way. Luciano dials up Gordon's number. It rings a few times before the he picks up. He sounds tired and worn out, "What is it, Luciano?"
"Eeeey, Pym Reaper! So, how'd the thing with the thing go?"
Gordon releases a long sigh, "Something seemed to have gone wrong--"
"WHAT?!" Luciano explodes. Paul flinches and covers his ears. He's starting to feel even more nauseous than before. His head is pounding and his nose is running. He can't stop sniffling and his eyes are watering.
Gordon growls, "Shut up, Luciano. I'm on my way to handle it right now."
"What exactly happened?"
"The hitter apparently confirmed the kill, but he failed to show up at the rendezvous point."
Luciano growls, "FUCK! So, where the fuck is he then?"
"I don't know. Nobody does."
Paul pokes Luciano's shoulder, "Is--is that Markham guy dead or what? Ask him, ask him!!"
Luciano waves his hand dismissively, "Hold on, hold on. So, is Markham Reed dead or what?"
Gordon replies, "I don't know. That's what I'm trying to find out before you called and started yelling in my ear. Don't worry, I'll get to the bottom of this."
Luciano orders, "Yeah, you better! That shit cost me 60 large. If Reed's still walking, I want a fucking refund! You tell that to whoever the fuck it is you're supposed to be meeting up with, got it?"
Gordon sighs again, "I understand. I'll get to the bottom of this. Good day." He hangs up.
LDJ angrily tosses the phone aside and starts the car up again.
Paul looks VERY concerned, "So, so...what's the deal? The SEC guy IS dead, right? RIGHT?!"
Luciano retorts, "Shut up, Paul! Lemme...lemme think for a sec, OK?! Goddamn." He rubs his temples and takes a few deep breaths. Paul sits there, his eyes darting around, his fingers twitching.
He's getting withdrawal symptoms. He's desperate for a line of coke.
LDJ shakes his head, "I'll drop you back at your place. Snort as much blow as you have to. After that, get on the fucking phone and call your contacts up in the Federal Government."
Paul complies with a frantic nod of the head, "Y--Yes, yes, yes, yes. I'll do it. I'll do it." He's sweating profusely and he keeps looking around.
Luciano tells himself, "And I'll try some damage control from my end. Heh, maybe y--you were right, Paul. We should've tried something a lot less violent than this. But what's done is done. Now, we gotta clean up the mess."
Paul nods again, "Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. I--I totally agree, man."
Gordon is on his way to a long-abandoned industrial complex on the outskirts of Flimont City. He's hoping that he can learn more about why the hitter has failed to check in after supposedly killing Markham Reed.
Overgrowth covers most of the building's exterior, and the windows are all broken. It's been abandoned for years, and it's not the first time that Gordon has used this place as a meeting spot.
He parks his 7th generation Impala nearby and walks into the building. Nature has clearly reclaimed this place. Vines and other plants have overrun the interior, making it difficult to move around.
The ground is covered in dirt, cigarette butts, and broken glass. There's also a few needles here and there. Gordon steps over some empty Pringles cans and makes his way to the main area of the building.
He walks through the darkness, his flashlight shining the way. He goes down to the basement and finds a metal door.
A woman points her gun at Gordon's head. He lightly gasps and raises his hands when he feels the barrel against his head. The woman speaks, her voice raspy and hoarse, "You're late."
Gordon's voice is calm and collected, "I'm sorry. Traffic in this city- you know how it is. I was told to meet your boss here."
The woman holds out a burlap sack, "Not here. Put this on and follow me."
Gordon's breathing is shaky, but he does as he's told. He puts the sack over his head and follows the woman. She leads him to a van parked outside the building.
She opens the back door and pushes Gordon inside.
75 minutes later...
The van has been going around in circles, stopping here and there; clearly, the driver is doing their best to completely disorient Gordo's sense of direction.
After a while, the van stops and the woman pulls Gordon out. He can hear the sound of waves crashing against rocks. The woman pulls the sack off of Gordon's head.
They're in a dimly-lit office space. The sounds of the waves appear to be coming from a recording played on a nearby speaker. There's a large desk in the center of the room, and a man is sitting behind it.
The man is wearing a black suit, a white shirt, and a black tie. He's in his 70s, wrinkly face, and gaunt look. He has a cigar in his mouth, and he's puffing on it.
Gordon gulps and tries to keep his cool, "I assume all the cloak and dagger nonsense was for your benefit, Mister...?"
"Strickland. Call me Mr. Strickland. I only agreed to this meeting because your reputation precedes you, Mr. Pym."
Judging by Mr. Strickland's accent, he was the guy Gordon spoke to yesterday at that payphone.
Gordon sharply points out, "Ah, that accent. You were the one I spoke to yesterday. Did Mr. Percy check in with you yet?"
Mr. Strickland shrugs and taps out some ashes into a nearby ashtray, "No, not yet. He's a professional, this is most...unbecoming of him."
Gordon clears his throat, "But, he did confirm that Markham Reed is dead, right?"
"Mm-hmm. Yet--" Mr. Strickland springs up from his seat and paces around the room, "--something curious has happened."
Gordon narrows his eyes, "What do you mean by that?"
Mr. Strickland snaps his fingers and the woman from earlier slides a folder over to Gordon. He picks it up and opens it. Inside are a few photos of Markham Reed exiting the hotel.
The timestamp clearly shows the photos were taken AFTER Daniel confirmed the kill. Gordon frowns and looks up at Mr. Strickland, "This...this doesn't make any sense. Are you sure these photos are genuine?"
Mr. Strickland replies, "Of course they are, Mr. Pym. Do you think I waste people's time with fakes? Tch."
He adds, "Something's not adding up here. Daniel would never lie, he's a damn good killer. And yet..."
Gordon shakes his head, "I don't understand. What could have possibly happened?"
Mr. Strickland paces around some more, "Perhaps...perhaps he made a mistake. It's highly unlikely, of course. The man is well-trained, after all."
Gordon suggests, "Maybe he's playing us for fools. Maybe he's trying to extort you for more money. It's not unusual for pros to get greedy. Especially in this line of 'work', if you can even call it that."
Mr. Strickland dismisses that idea, "No, no. He agreed on the $60,000. Subtracting my...small cut, of course. No, something else is going on here. Something very peculiar and unusual."
Gordon asks, "How do you know he's not dead?"
Mr. Strickland shoots back, "If he's dead, then where's the body? And, more importantly, who killed him? Could Markham Reed have done it AFTER Daniel confirmed the kill?"
Gordon shrugs, "It's possible. But, that would mean that he somehow managed to survive being shot multiple times in the back."
Mr. Strickland stops pacing around and sits back down with a huff, "Hmph, that is an enigma, is it not? No man, woman, or person, no matter how strong or armored, can survive that many shots from a suppressed pistol at close range."
Gordon thinks for a moment, "Unless..."
Mr. Strickland leans forward, "Unless what?"
Gordon calmly muses, "Unless your hitman chose another method."
"No. Impossible. I know Daniel, personally. He prefers shots to the back of the head or multiple in the body. As a last resort, he might use his bowie knife, but that's only if he needs to get up close and personal."
Gordon says, "Well, he could have simply missed. He could have been rushed by someone else in the room. Or, maybe he's lying dead in a ditch somewhere."
Mr. Strickland's eyes glaze over, "The 3rd possibility is what concerns me the most. However, no corpse has washed up yet. I have my people watching the city morgue around the clock. Nothing."
"What about the hotel room Markham was staying at?"
Mr. Strickland shrugs, "Cleaned from top to bottom, apparently. Reed even paid his bills and left a tip for the cleaning staff."
Gordon scoffs, "That's odd."
Mr. Strickland agrees, "Indeed. Quite odd. Something's not right here, Mr. Pym. I have a strong feeling that this is not some mere Federal Government employee we're dealing with."
Gordon concurs, "You may be right, Mr. Strickland. I'll do some digging on my end. In the meantime, I'd suggest you keep a low profile."
Mr. Strickland claps back, "Don't tell another professional how to do his job. I normally don't go out of my way to meet clients- smoke, mirrors, and all that theatrical nonsense. But, I'm willing to make an exception for you, Mr. Pym."
Gordon raises an eyebrow, "Why?"
Mr. Strickland explains, "Your reputation precedes you. Besides, it's not the 1st time you're utilizing our services. Remember the Penbrookes?"
Gordon recalls that incident, "Yes, yes. I remember them quite well. They were a thorn in my client's side for years. It's a shame they had to die like that, though." There's a hint of dark and disturbing satisfaction in his tone.
Mr. Strickland continues, "Indeed. Indeed. 4 people- husband, wife, her sister, and a kid. Hmph." There's no remorse or regret in his voice.
Gordon gets up, "Well, I'll be in touch, Mr. Strickland. If you hear anything from your hitter, please let me know."
Mr. Strickland nods, "Of course. I don't give up on my people that easily."
"Why?"
Mr. Strickland explains, "All of those who work under me are soldiers. They are without purpose, for the time being. I fill that void, that desire to kill, to serve. They have no families, no friends, no attachments, nothing. All they have is me."
Gordon slowly nods, "I see. Well, thank you for your time, Mr. Strickland."
Mr. Strickland goes on, "All they know is how to fight, kill, and die. I give them purpose, I hone and sharpen their unique...skills. I am their shepherd, their leader, their general. They are my soldiers, and I am their commander."
Gordon snarks, "It seems your Daniel might've done the last part, heh."
Mr. Strickland scoffs, "If that is the case, then he served his country valiantly. Regardless, there is another thing that might be of interest to you, Mr. Pym."
Gordon's eyebrow perches up, "Oh? What's that?"
Mr. Strickland slides over another folder, "This is the dossier on someone our target was conversing with right before he 'died'. He's a rather interesting fellow, if I do say so myself."
Gordon opens the folder and looks through it, a blank and neutral expression on his face as he mutters, "Hmm. Hmm. Hmm. Interesting."
Mr. Strickland inquires, "What do you think?"
Gordon flatly responds, "I think...I think it should be taken care of as well."
Mr. Strickland smirks, "Understood. For this one, we'll charge you...$20,000."
Gordon is surprised, "That's unusually cheap."
"It's been a thorn in our side for years. He could do some damage to our operation. Major damage, and that I simply do not like, Mr. Pym. Better to nip this in the bud now."
"Hmm, I see. So, when will it be done?"
Mr. Strickland drums his fingers on the table, "As soon as possible, Mr. Pym. As soon as possible."
Gordon nods, "I understand. Thank you for your time, Mr. Strickland. And it's finally good to put a face behind that voice I spoke to yesterday."
Mr. Strickland chuckles, "Likewise, Mr. Pym. Likewise. Good day."
Gordon turns and leaves. The woman escorts him out of the building and back to the van.
Gordon groans, "Again?"
The woman dryly claps back, "Would you rather I chloroformed you?"
"Hmph, no. Can you at least give me a cleaner sack? That one smelt like cheap aftershave..."
The same sack goes back on Gordon's head. The van drives off, its destination: the industrial area where it picked up Gordon earlier.
The woman removes the sack and points her gun at Gordon again, "Get out. And forget how my boss looked. He doesn't normally agree to physical meetups. I don't know what he was thinking, tch."
Gordon does so, "Thank you. I hope we can work together again sometime."
"Hmph." The woman starts the van and drives off, the tires screeching as she speeds away. Gordon watches her go and shakes his head.
He walks over to his Impala and gets in. He takes a few deep breaths and calms himself down.
He asks himself, "What the hell have I gotten myself into here? Goddamn...anyway, I'll wire the $20,000 to Strickland as soon as I can. Then, I'll call Luciano and tell him the good news. Hopefully, he won't bitch about it too much. Kids these days."
He starts the car and drives off. He has a lot of (terrible and thankless) work to do.
The afternoon sun ruthlessly blazes and bathes the city in a terrible and harsh glow. Mauve's Haven is still as filthy as ever. Luciano called a professional cleaner to clean it up a while ago.
She arrived, grimaced at the horror show in front of her, held her breath when she needed to, cleaned up, and left a note on Mauve's desk.
The cleaner kept trying Mauve's bedroom door, but it had to be locked for obvious reasons.
The note on Mauve's desk reads: "All done. Charges included for 3 hours and all supplies. Thank you." It's signed by the cleaner. A business card is also taped to the note.
It reads: "If you need our services again, please feel free to give us a call. Regards, Diana. PS- Nice place."
The cleaner goes back to her van and throws her head back. She loudly exhales and fans herself with a women's magazine that's been sitting around in her van.
"Hoooooof. Shame I had to throw out ALL those pizzas. What a waste. I--I probably should've helped myself to some of it, but clients tend to get all pissy if they think I've been eating their stuff. What do you think, Jerry?"
Jerry is the cleaner's stuffed lion, 1 eye hanging by a thread, fur faded, and nose chewed up.
Diana chuckles, "Yeah, I thought so. C'mon, let's go grab a quick bite at Jersey Mike's. Or, should we go to the Jersey Mike's knockoff on 10th Avenue?"
Jerry dangles lifelessly from the rearview mirror and the cleaner chuckles again. She turns her radio on and begins humming to herself.
Jerry, the scrappy stuffed lion decoration piece, doesn't talk back. That doesn't stop his owner, Diana, from carrying on entire conversations with him, as if he were a real person.
She turns her van around and drives away, the smell of pizzas still lingering in her nose. Diana thinks about what to eat at the restaurant, "Should we go for the sub or a wrap? Maybe a burrito?"
She playfully pokes Jerry, sending him swinging from the rearview mirror, "I know what you want- the sub, heh." She giggles at her own joke. Jerry is a good listener. That's all she really wants right now.
Diana stops her van and pulls out her flip phone. She dials the number of her gruff and nasty boss, dreading the conversation. He always seems to find something wrong, no matter what she does.
"Hello?" he says, sounding like he woke up from a nap.
"It's me. Diana. I've done the job. No one was there, so I just left a note on the client's desk."
"Mmmrph. Ah, Diana. My favorite 'woman'. You do good work, don't you, toots?" She hears the sounds of his chomping, no doubt, eating some junk food as he talks.
She continues, "It--It's...I also think it's time we talked about a uh...raise, yeah. Rent's kinda due and all. I also need to pick up a few more hours, you know how it is..." she trails off.
"Hmm, that's good work. Mmmrph. Raise, huh? The fuck, Diana?! Do I look like I run some kind of charity for you people?! Ehh? The hell, Diana! Fuckin'...waking me for this bullshit!"
"B--But, boss--" he hangs up before Diana can say anything more.
She growls and slams the dashboard, "FUCK! This is...this is some BULLSHIT!! It--It's not like I have any other way of making a living in this city, y'know?" She looks over at Jerry for reassurance, but the inanimate object doesn't reply.
She shakes her head and drives off to the Jersey Mike's knockoff for a sub and a milkshake. Maybe the milkshake will cheer her up and take her mind off of things. Or, maybe not.
She's not sure. She'll try it out and see.
As she drives, she hums the tune of whatever's on the radio. On the back of her mind, however, she is wondering how she's gonna pay this week's rent. She's also behind on some bills, but the company she works for refuses to properly compensate their employees.
She works for a company called: "Worbo's Professional Cleaning Services", owned and run by an asshole named "Mike Winters".
The boss's name sounds hella suspicious, and Diana suspects it's just a pseudonym, a way of avoiding the law (or an angry ex, or both). She doesn't ask any questions because this job's all she has and she doesn't want to risk getting fired.
But, even this crappy and thankless job of professional cleaning doesn't pay well enough. Diana sighs, she has to work a lot more hours just to scrape by and eke an existence in this goddamn city.
Her boss, on the other hand, boasted about buying and importing a nasty-looking Dalmatian with that very same money he wouldn't give to his employees.
Asshole.
Diana knows she should quit this job, but where would she find work elsewhere? Her hands are tied and her boss is an asshole. Besides, in a money-crazed hellscape like Flimont City, there aren't many good, decent-paying jobs going around.
She has a degree in Classical History, but Flimont's more elite denizens don't give a shit about art, culture, history, science, or anything that doesn't immediately yield maximum returns.
She sighs once more as she pulls into a parking space outside of the Jersey Mike's knockoff. Diana decides that she's going to go in for a BLT sub. After that, she has some more cleaning assignments to attend to.
She tells her stuffed companion, "Don't worry, I'll get you a soft and chewy drop sugar cookie, heh."
The Jersey Mike's knockoff is actually called: "Uncle Steve's!" It was some writer for the Flimont Times who first called it a "Jersey Mike's knockoff" due to the similarities of the eateries. It's been catching on like wildfire since then.
The store owner wasn't pleased by that at all. He got even more upset when it became the unofficial name for this place.
Diana walks into the store, the scent of freshly-cooked meats filling the air. She takes it all in through her nostrils, sighing with pleasure. Uncle Steve's sure does know how to cook meat.
The door closes behind her and she goes up to the counter, where an acne-riddled and bored-looking cashier waits.
Sounding as dull as ever, he says, "Welcome to Uncle Steve's, home of the subs and all that. Can I take your order?"
Diana strokes her chin and looks at the menu on the wall. She nods, "Uh...lemme see." She pauses for a moment and looks around.
The floors are checkerboarded, the walls are painted in a shade of light blue. The place isn't too full at this time, but it isn't wholly empty. Some people are in their cars, ordering through the window.
Others are on their lunch break and just relaxing in their booths.
The TV's playing some music channel. The screen shows an ad for a new product being sold by a very well-known company.
The cashier is annoyed and asks again, "Can I take your order?"
Diana looks at the beautiful woman on the TV screen and runs a hand down her face, eyes glazing over. Her voice cracks a bit when she replies, "U--Uh...yeah! Uhh...uhhhhh. Just give me the uh..." her eyes dart all around.
She finally says, "Yeah, gimme an Uncle's Club Special. Hold the olives. Also gimme the um...Oreo Milkshake. And 2 sugar cookies. Thanks!"
"Whatever," the cashier dude dully says as he repeats her order.
"Cash or card?" he asks, tapping a few numbers into the cash register.
Diana's hand fishes through her pockets and she pulls out a few bills, "Uh, cash, I guess." She hands it over to him with a warm smile, "Keep the change, kid."
The cashier is caught off-guard by her warm smile and nods with a nervous chuckle, "Y--Yeah, uh...thanks." He punches a few more buttons into the register and Diana gets her receipt.
She waits for about 10 minutes before her order is finally ready. She's feeling a bit drowsy from all that work she did earlier and her hands are kinda numb. But, the promise of a good sandwich and a delicious milkshake is keeping her awake.
She quietly sits in a secluded booth at the far back of the restaurant, not wanting to be disturbed. She unwraps the sub and starts devouring it. The Oreo milkshake is very creamy and tastes a lot better than Diana initially imagined.
With her mouth full, she says, "Damn, this is actually quite good for a blatant Jersey Mike's knockoff. Heh, heh."
After eating, she gets back in her van and tosses the packet of cookies onto the seat next to her.
She says to Jerry, "Enjoy the meal, bud. I would've loved to sit back, but no rest for the wicked in this city, heh."
Jerry says nothing in response and Diana just chuckles as she starts her van. She heads off to her next job assignment, the sun as bright and as unrelenting as ever.
She starts to think about her next plan of action regarding her crappy job and all of the crap she has to put up with on a near-daily basis.
As she drives, her radio plays some terrible 90's pop song.
"Blurgh. This. Again. Sheesh. It'd be nice to have some NICE music on the radio. Right, Jerry?"
Poor Jerry looks like he's melting under the unforgiving sun.
"Y--Yeah. Yeah. You know what? I think I've made up my mind. I'm gonna talk to Winters. Ask him for that raise. I've been with the company for like...6 years now. If anything, I'm kinda overdue for a raise."
Given how hot it is, Diana turns on the A/C and cranks it up. She makes sure all the windows in her crappy van are rolled up, but the window to Jerry's side is jammed, so she decides to leave it the way it is.
"Anyway, Jerry. I don't like how that guy says he's in crippling debt, but somehow...SOMEHOW manages to find enough money to get himself a dog from another country. Make it make sense, my stuffed friend."
"..."
Diana shakes her head, "Yeah, I thought so. God, traffic's really starting to get thick now. Ugh...I guess it IS the afternoon, after all."
In time, afternoon gives way to evening. The sun begins its slow descent in the horizon, coloring the sky with an ethereal orange-pink glow. The air starts to cool down as the day draws to a close.
A person like Diana will work and work and work till dinnertime. She (like many others) ekes out an existence, living in this unforgiving city where the strong devour the weak. There is no real (or apparent) escape. There is no paradise in sight.
This is what they all know, and what they've been conditioned into passively accepting.
The Kindred prepare to awaken and their Ghouls (where applicable) begin setting up. The vampires in this part of the world prepare to go about their Unlives.
Markham groans and hears the words of his Sire echoing in his troubled mind: "Survival's the game we all play. Some of us do better than others."
The Baali gets off his tough mattress and goes upstairs to the living room. Surprisingly, his Gangrel hosts are ready and chatting at a circular table in the kitchen. There are some books stacked on it. Markham wonders what's in those books.
Maybe more of abuela's old stuff that neither Diego nor Marisol could get rid of? Or maybe something else entirely? Who knows. But, that doesn't really matter at the moment.
Diego is dressed in scrappy work clothes- a t-shirt and a pair of rough and baggy jeans. Marisol is dressed in office casuals, her striped shirt is buttoned-down and a necklace with a gold crucifix dangles from her neck.
Marisol's hair is neatly brushed and her shoes are at the front door. Her outfit looks a lot cleaner than Diego's and it smells more fragrant, too.
Marisol silently nods over to the Baali. Diego holds out his hands, "Eyyy! Devil man! Sleep well?"
Markham dryly nods, "Mm-hmm."
Diego invites Markham to take a seat at the table. Marisol regards her Baali guest in a cold and almost distant manner. There is little warmth in her eyes when she looks at him.
Still, a part of her knows it's not good to turn down a vato in distress, and Markham has certainly been through a lot!
Diego eases the tension by inquiring, "So, I hope Marisol's abuela's old mattress wasn't too...uh...hard on you, haha." There's some awkwardness in his tone.
Markham shrugs and rolls a shoulder, "It's fine. Thanks." The last thing he wants to do is run afoul of the only Gangrel who's (so far) being decent to him.
Marisol shoots her boyfriend an annoyed glare, "Hmph." Her face is cold and severe.
Diego shoots her a goofy smile and tells her, "It's alright, it's alright. Your buddies at the office won't give a shit if you're 2 minutes late."
In an attempt to break the ice, Markham asks Marisol, "So, Marisol, where do you work?"
Marisol leans back, her chair creaking from the pressure, "I work in sales for a small company." She's clearly very tired. There are dark circles around her eyes.
Diego bitterly chuckles, "They treat her like dirt, man."
Markham nods, "I'm sorry to hear that."
Diego sighs, "Yeah, we're decades late to all the good jobs in this city."
The Baali motions for the Feral to explain, which he gladly does, "Deindustrialization hit this city hard, homes. Like, REAL HARD. BAM! The jobs started drying up and the infrastructure has been falling to shit." Diego has a very distant look in his eyes and he smiles, but his expression is full of sadness, pain, and regret.
Marisol puts her cold hand on her boyfriend's cold(er) hand, "There's nothing we can do about it, D. Best we can do is..."
She looks at Markham and says, "...survive the worst of it. It's what--it's the only thing we can afford to do, no?"
The Baali signals his agreement with a short nod of the head.
Diego smiles at his girlfriend and goes on, "People, well those who could afford to, left this city. Hell, Marisol is lucky to have her office job. Without it..." he shudders, not wanting to think of what Unlife would be like if his girlfriend were out of work.
Markham knows this is something that's plagued many in Y2K America, "Yeah, all that Y2K optimism faded out pretty fast." He has this distant and faraway look on his face.
Diego concurs, "Yeah, man. The new century was supposed to show some promise, but it's just a continuation of all the bad shit from the last century."
Marisol blandly speaks up, "Just because the calendars changed doesn't mean the world did."
Diego queries, "So, what do you do for work, huh?"
Markham answers, "I'm an Enforcement Investigator for the SEC."
Marisol softly chuckles and shakes her head, "The Securities and Exchange Commission, huh? How long you been doing that for? It can't have been that long."
"I started in the 90s, so it's been a decade."
Diego whistles, somewhat impressed, "And your 'cover' hasn't like, been blown or anything? All your co-workers getting old and crusty while you remain pale and fresh is gonna raise some 'brows, y'know?"
Markham shrugs, "So far, nobody's grown suspicious and I hope it stays that way for the foreseeable future." Yet, on the back of his mind, Markham thinks about how long he can keep working for the SEC without breaching the Masquerade or getting discovered.
Marisol sighs and prods, "So, what does an Enforcement Investigator do, hmm? I'd like to know that my tax dollars are being wisely spent, Mr...?"
"Reed. I um...investigate fraud and other crimes that occur in the securities and financial markets. I also aid in any enforcement actions taken by the agency." Markham's tone is rather detached, like he's reciting a script.
Diego chimes in, "Sounds kinda cool, if you ask me."
Markham indifferently responds, "If paper trails, research, waiting around, and a lot of talking to and dealing with unlikable types is your idea of 'cool', then sure."
Marisol directly states, "Well, you've come to the right city, Mr. Reed. I once read that it was shaping up to be the capital of market manipulation, tax evasions, fraud, ponzi schemes, and shit like that."
Markham fully agrees, "Yeah, I got that impression, too."
Diego queries, "So, the buster who tried to 'kill' you last night- work-related hazard, hmm? Shit like that happen often in your line of work?"
Markham sighs, "It looks that way, but I'm still not comfortable discussing the details of an ongoing investigation, or prior ones. As for things like this happening often, there doesn't seem to be a precedent for it...as far as I'm aware, but this city is...different."
Marisol blithely declares, "Tch, yeah it is. You've got people born with, and into, millions and then turning it into bigger millions or billions by manipulating complicated financial instruments that no one or few of us understand. Tch."
Diego snickers and agrees with his girl. Once the financial speculator types started getting their claws in this city, they made it their mission to make things even more complicated (and shittier) just so they could make it big.
They also took their own sweet time in doing it. Now, only the smartest and most educated (or well-informed or those in-the-know) can really understand the system and how its been rigged to benefit a sliver of the population.
Marisol further inquires, "I know you don't wanna talk about it, but which one of these pendejos are you looking into, anyway? Hmm?"
For a moment, the Baali hesitates, but he doesn't wanna be a rude guest or give the impression of being ungrateful. He knows that he needs to play nice with these Ferals and he shouldn't piss them off.
After all, they are giving him a mattress to day-sleep on, even if it is as hard as rock!
Markham finally tells the 2 Outlanders, "2 guys by the names of Luciano Donovan Junior and his close friend, Paul Cho."
Diego lets out a long whistle, "Oh, those vatos, huh? Sheesh. I know the Asian guy, Paul. Word on the streets is he's uh...he's got a dope habit."
He does the bunny ears gesture with his fingers, "A 'mild' cocaine habit from what I've heard. I remember someone from our Clan said he came here once trying to score, but just cause we're Cholos doesn't mean we carry that shit around."
"Interesting."
Marisol shakes her head, disgusted with it all, "Tsk. Rich people like that go through life, not having to worry about anything like bills, taxes, debt, food, water, mortgage, and rent. Meanwhile, we're just trying to stay alive here. I've seen so many homeless people on my way to work..."
"Same," Markham mutters under his breath, "The homelessness in this city is unlike anything I--I've ever seen."
Diego chimes in, "Yeah, ese. I was looking at some apartments cuz some vatos needed a place to lay low, and HOLY SHIT were the rents crazy- and it wasn't even like a fucking penthouse or anything. Just a regular 1 bedroom."
He shakes his head in disbelief, "I still can't get over how high everything is here. It's fuckin' insane, homes. And these rich busters keep building these fucking mega-mansions for themselves while the rest of us are just tryna make ends touch."
Marisol tells her boyfriend, "At least we have mi abuela's house as our Haven, D. If it weren't for that, I do not know how we...how we would survive." She looks down and her eyes get glassy.
Diego tells Markham a bit about what he does, "I don't got a fancy office job like my girl here, heh. Like I said last night, I do some volunteering to help out at the local community center, y'know, get it up and running so the peeps got something...nice to do around here."
Markham softly says, "It's the least you can do, I guess."
Marisol sourly scoffs and checks her watch, "The least we can do? It's the government's job to fix this shit! It's your job at the SEC to hold these pendejos accountable!"
Markham plainly tells her, "I'm just here to make sure that everybody plays fair and by the same rules. I'm not some kind of avenging angel about to bring down a flaming sword on anyone's neck."
"So you're just gonna let these pendejos walk around with all that money like nothing happened?!" Marisol angrily demands, her voice growing louder.
Diego calms her, "Easy, easy."
Markham sighs deeply, "Look, I don't know what impression you have of the SEC, but we're struggling too. Decades of cuts to our funding, lack of staff, and a bunch of other political and bureaucratic bullshit meddling have left us in a less-than-ideal state."
He continues, "This city and this country in general has a lot of problems, sure, but the SEC is doing everything they can with the hands they've been dealt. There's good people in my office who wanna do the right thing, but--"
Marisol snarks, "It's too 'complicated', or you're afraid of pissing off the wrong pendejo, tch."
"Yes and no. It's a bit more nuanced than that," the Baali dryly explains, "Sure, I've seen some really shitty things in my line of work and there's only so much that I can ignore, but sometimes--"
Diego fills in, "You have to let little the little piranhas go so you can...reel in the big kahunas. Yeah, I get it. I...get it. Plenty of vatos I help out have similar stories- they tried to do the right thing, but got busted up and royally screwed over in the system."
Marisol clicks her tongue, "Hm. Yeah. Let's see how long these 2 scumbags go around living the good life after Mr. Reed here busts them."
Markham shakes his head, "That's not how it works. I'll need solid evidence that proves criminality on the part of Mr. Donovan and his associates. Even with all the stuff I've gathered so far, I can't go to my superiors just yet."
Diego leans forward and asks, "And how much have you gathered?"
"A lot, but it might not necessarily be the kind of stuff that'll lead to cuffs being slapped on either Mr. Donovan or Mr. Cho."
Marisol mutters, "You'll need mountains of evidence- the kind of shit that can only take decades. Decades which we Kindred have, but decades which these mortals don't."
Diego softly smiles, "She's right, homes. Those 2 busters have a rep in this city and it ain't a good one. You know who that Donovan guy's daddy is, right?"
Markham's eyes glaze over, "Hmm, yeah. I've heard about him- not exactly Time Magazine's Person Of The Year, that much is certain."
Diego proceeds to explain what little he's managed to learn about LDJ's dad, but this is mostly old news to Markham. Still, the Baali does thank the Gangrel for sharing what he knows.
Marisol looks at her watch and stands up. She smooths out the few creases in her clothing, adjusts her curly hair, and heads for the front door.
Diego tells his guest to wait for a minute of 2, "I'll be right back, OK?"
"Sure."
Diego follows Marisol to the front door, "Ready for another night, mi corazon? I am going to miss you. A lot, heh."
"You say that every night, D. I'm fine, I have a routine, I stick to it, keep my head down, mind my own business. That's it." At this point, her routine is practically baked into her undead being.
Diego puts his hands on Marisol's shoulders and looks deep into her eyes, "I'll uh...show our guest around. Maybe take him to that bodega to feed. Give him his 1st ever ride in a lowrider, heh."
Marisol lowers her voice and meets his gaze, "Just promise you'll be careful around him, D. I know what you said last night and all, but--"
Diego places a finger on Marisol's lips and reassures her, "I know, I know. Markham seems like a--a decent guy, y'know. We should help him. It's what your abuela would've done, no?"
Marisol smiles fondly when her abuela is mentioned, but there's still a sadness that's apparent, "Sure. I just don't want those pendejos at Immigration showing up to our doorsteps 1 night, D."
"I know what you mean. Don't worry, he's not gonna snitch on us, OK?"
Diego kisses Marisol on the forehead and tells her, "Now, go on. I'll take good care of our guest."
Marisol grabs her purse and bike keys from the table in the foyer. She kisses her boyfriend on the cheek and makes her way over to where her scooter is parked- it's a black machine that's a bit scratched up on the sides.
Diego watches her go, the scooter whoosing away until it becomes nothing more than a pinprick of light in the distance. He sighs and closes the front door.
He walks back into the living room and finds Markham sitting there, staring down at his scuffed shoes.
The Gangrel gently claps his hands, "Well, it's just us vatos now."
The Baali replies, "I um...hope I didn't overstep any boundaries. Your Marisol can get a bit...testy, huh?"
Diego laughs, "Oh, haha. Yeah, she's always been like that- it's mainly the shit at work. She's good at heart, Markham. It's just that...this city can take its toll on even the best of us. You know what I'm saying?"
"Yeah, I do. I feel like I'm already starting to see that," Markham's eyes wander over, as if he's thinking about something far away.
The Feral snaps his fingers, "Hey, yo? So, any plans? I was thinking of showing you the sights around here. And if you're up for it, giving you a ride around town in a lowrider." He has a semi-expectant look plastered all over his face.
Markham gives his host a sideways look, eyes narrowed, "Now's not exactly the time for joyrides. Also, won't the other Gangrel get suspicious and tell Pedro? I wouldn't want to get you in any trouble."
Diego waves away his guest's concerns, "Pedro, Pedro, Pedro. He's a good homie, but he respects our territory as much as we respect him. If you're a guest in me and Marisol's Haven, then there's not much he can or will do about it. It's fine, trust me, OK?"
"If you say so. But, I still wanna do more digging into who tried to...get me last night."
"What else do you know about that buster?"
"He was a pro, that much was certain. Why?"
Diego smirks and strokes his chin, "It's a stretch, but I might know someone who uh...has her ears to the streets."
"Uh...?"
The Outlander faintly chuckles, "I didn't wanna mention her in front of Marisol."
"Why?"
"Ehh, reasons. What are your thoughts on the Brujah Clan?"
Markham stops to think, "Um...I dunno. I haven't met THAT many to form a strong opinion in either direction, why? Is this 'her' you mentioned one of them?"
"Yeah, she's a Brujah, alright. She's also a..." he stops halfway through and looks around, like he's uncomfortable with something.
"What?" Markham asks, confused as to what the other Kindred is looking around for.
Diego looks at the ceiling and whispers, "She's also a prostitute, man."
"Oh."
Diego snickers, "Yeah. Her name's Roxanne, yeah, like that song from--"
Markham fills in, "The Police. Yeah, I've listened to it back when I was a fraud investigator for a small firm."
Diego's eyebrows shoot up, "What made you leave that for the SEC?"
"I guess I wanted a change and a chance to...do some good, I guess. Make more of an impact, maybe." One senses that Markham isn't being totally honest with Diego.
"And how's that working out for ya, huh?" the Gangrel sarcastically asks.
Markham shrugs, "I try. It's not easy. Especially in this new century."
"Hmm, tell me about it. So, whaddaya say, homes? We pay this puta (ES: prostitute) a visit, try to find out if she knows anything about the assassinos who might still be after your ass?"
"..."
Diego clicks his tongue, "The way I see it, you've got no other choice- I'm sure your bosses at the SEC won't be too thrilled about your latest...predicament, hmm? I've also heard about people monitoring phone calls and shit like that, so if you're gonna make any more calls to your superiors--"
Markham sighs, "I get it. You're right- they tried to kill a Federal Government employee, but I can't risk going to my boss about that without revealing my true nature."
"Mm-hmm."
Markham looks directly at the Gangrel and pointedly asks, "Why are you helping me?"
The Feral shrugs, "Because it's the right thing to do. It's what you would also do if our situations were reversed, right? RIGHT?" His eyes glint with a hopeful spark and he flashes a toothy grin.
Markham gulps and nods, "Yeah, of course. Of course. I don't mean to sound ungrateful or anything, I just--"
"Gringo like you not used to this kind of help, huh?"
"Yeah, something like that. Look, thank you for all your help, Diego. I'm--I'm really lucky to have met you and Marisol."
Diego shrugs and claps the Baali on the back, "Hey, don't mention it. Just try not to bring any crazy killers to our doorstep, huh? Still, if you do, stand back and let us deal with it- this house is all we have, man."
"I'll try to keep it as low-key as possible."
Diego chuckles, "You better! Now, c'mon. We'll take my truck, OK? We'll grab us some warm necks at this bodega I know- it's mostly dark and full of peeps to bite into, heh. You'll like it, trust me, homes."
Markham nods and follows his host to his truck.
On the way, Diego puts some Spanish rap music on, singing along and shaking his head to the beat. Markham is pretty indifferent to the music. The Baali doesn't say much, he just listens and takes everything in.
In time, the duo arrive at the bodega. There's a few people milling about and lolling around. A man exits with a half-eaten hot pocket, another comes out with a fresh soda.
The 2 Kindred enter the bodega, which smells of meat, smoke, and other things. The lights are dim and there are a few TV's playing various channels.
The owner is a grumpy-looking fella with thinning hair, an unkempt beard, and bags under his eyes. His face looks like a storm cloud and he's smoking a cigarette. He looks annoyed by everyone and everything.
Diego waves to him and the guy nods back, "Eyyy, Javier!"
Javier's voice is hoarse and indifferent, "Diego. What now? Come to talk my head off again about politics or sports?" He seems to know the Gangrel rather well.
Diego chuckles, "Nah, nothing like that, homie. I'm just gonna take a look around with my friend here and I'll be out of your hair, haha."
Markham's shoes slide along the messy floor. He spots traces of blood and other fluids all over the place. He also spots some suspicious stains on the walls.
The lights flicker every so often and there's a smell of meat, smoke, and tobacco that lingers in the air. It does tickle the dead nostrils of the 2 vampires.
Markham stops at the commercial display fridge and looks at all the drinks available- alcohol, juice, soda, and so on. He largely feels indifferent towards no longer being able to partake in mortal food and drink.
Diego nudges the Baali and joins him, "Yeah, even I kinda miss regular bebidas (ES: drinks). Ah, well..." he trails off and looks around the bodega as some kids enter the place and immediately head for the snack aisle.
A kid is already looking at some chips and his older sister is getting something to drink from the fridge. The gangly older kid looks at the Feral and Markham with curiosity.
Diego smiles at her and takes Markham aside, "C'mon, let's go."
"Hmm." Markham has this distant look on his face, as if he's trying to piece something together in his head.
"Yo? You still in there?" Diego gently snaps his fingers.
Markham comes back and nods, "Y--Yeah. Yeah. Sorry, I was uh--never mind."
Diego gestures to the back, "Andale, andale (ES: Come on, come on), I need to bite into someone...and fast, heh."
"Me too," Markham can feel his inner Beast roaring and demanding satiation of the sanguine variety- sodas and hot pockets ain't gonna cut it. Not anymore, and not evermore.
Such is the bloody (pun very much intended) price of immortality.
The back area of this bodega is strewn with trash, discarded cigarette butts, and broken beer bottles. The concrete ground is cracked, and a rat scampers past the 2 Kindred, looking at them with its beady little eyes.
Diego spots a woman in a skimpy dress making suggestive gestures to a man in a fancy suit. He turns around and explains, "Yeah, a whole lotta prostitutes around here. Roxanne's just 1 of them- plenty of peeps willing to pay for it, too."
Markham dryly states, "Hmm. Desperate people do desperate things."
Diego adds, "Right now, we have a different kind of desperation. Andale, andale. I dunno how much longer I can hold off my Beast from ugh..." his eyes grow big and he looks around, a little embarrassed.
Markham quietly suggests, "Uh...you need any help pulling someone over?"
Diego's eyes nearly bulge out of he responds with short growls and grunts. He heads over to a nearby corner, where a woman is waiting, a cheap cigarette dangling between her lips.
He yanks her to a dark corner, subdues her, and bites into a neck with such fury that Markham can hear that gross sound of fangs piercing flesh and the gurgles of the victim. She tries to scream, but Diego covers her mouth with his hairy hand.
Markham spots a young man in casual wear rifling through the dumpster. The Baali sneaks up behind him, pulls his neck back, and bites into it. Blood flows and the young man's eyes roll back. He tries to fight it, but he is no match for the Baali's preternatural grip.
Markham takes only what is needed, as does Diego. Even if it's a little less than needed, it's enough to satiate the eternal Hunger that rages within every Kindred of every Clan and of every Bloodline, regardless of "age" and Generation.
After a few moments, the 2 Kindred rise and their eyes have a bit more color to them. Their skin is now flushed with some color and their eyes are alive. They wipe their mouths and take in the sight of the unconscious humans before them.
They lick the puncture wounds shut. The mortals in question are, thankfully, still alive. Their breathing is labored, yet there seems to be a look reflective of...satisfaction on their tired faces.
Diego adjusts his clothes, flashes an uncertain look at the chick he bit into, and quickly walks back to his truck. Markham does the same. When he's back in the truck, the Gangrel turns to the Baali, "So, you good now?"
"Mm-hmm."
"You ever uh...get grossed out by it?"
"By what?"
The Feral gesticulates, "The whole blood thing, man! Does it make you squirm? It makes ME squirm."
"Sometimes. It's what we are now, it's what we have to do to...survive. It's not like we're given much of a choice in the matter."
"Hmm," Diego starts up his truck and drives for a few minutes until a prostitute approaches his truck at a traffic stop. She suggestively pouts and Diego greets her, "Hey, 'sup!"
The sex worker looks to be in her early-20s. She's wearing fishnet stockings, a leopard-patterned jacket that's a bit worn for wear, a pair of ripped jeans, and some sneakers that have seen better times. There are dark circles around her eyes, the result of many sleepless nights.
Her long and stringy hair is greasy and matted and her brown eyes are glazed over. Her lipstick is smeared and her eyeshadow is mismatched.
"Lookin' for a good time, boys?" Her voice is equal parts velvety, equal parts hoarse and raspy. The 2 vampires can tell this is not the 1st time she's done this. It won't be the last, either.
The sex worker looks at Markham and loosely smiles, "I could show you a good time, mister."
Markham feels awkward, but bottles it all down. He directly asks her, "We're looking for a Roxanne. You know her?"
The lady of the night lets out a long, drawn-out whistle, "Ooh, Roxy, huh? You got tastes, huh?"
Diego leans forward in his seat, "Eh...something like that. You know where she's at?"
She pouts and moues, "Aren't I good enough for the both of ya?"
Markham impatiently says, "We're not interested in fucking you. We're looking for information."
Diego calms the Baali down, "Hey, slow down, hombre, slow down. What my uh...good friend here meant is that we're actually looking for something a bit different. Y'know?"
"Well, whatever it is, Roxy could be the one to help you out, I dunno. She knows everybody around here, she's tight with a lot of people, too. C'mon, guys, I can do everything Roxanne can do and--"
The Feral stops her, "It's...alright. We're not interested."
The prostitute's expression changes, "Then, what the fuck do ya want?"
Markham sighs deeply, "Do you or do you not know where Roxanne is right now?"
"Psssh, I'm not her fucking mommy, OK, mister?"
Markham remains unfazed and almost withdrawn, "Do you know what she looks like, at least?"
The sex worker dryly gives the 2 Kindred a vague description of the Brujah sex worker. They thank her for her time and drive off when the light finally turns green. As they drive off, the woman sticks her tongue out, flips the bird, and screams something indeterminable.
Markham doesn't give a damn. Diego just chuckles and shakes his head. Sadly, in this city, it's par for the course. The story of that sex worker is just a single line in a long book of human tragedies that spans volume after volume after volume.
Markham remarks, "I've never seen a prostitute so desperate before."
Diego shakes his head, "Welcome to Flimont City, homes. Out here, it REALLY is dog eat dog."
"How do you manage?"
"Well, as I'm sure you're aware, as Kindred we don't need no 'normal' food and drink, so not having much in terms of a huge-ass grocery bill is a big help. That said, there are still plenty of ways to get screwed." Diego's voice sounds rather detached.
Markham is curious, "Like...?"
"Like, um...a bunch of shady financial speculator types buying up swathes of land and planning to build shitty stadiums and theme parks that nobody fucking asked for. Seriously, the kinds of shit those powerful pendejos wanna do to this 'hood is fucking ludicrous, man!"
"I'm sorry," is all Markham can say at this moment. The city's night breeze sweeps his dark hair. The Baali is quiet for a few moments, his mind seemingly elsewhere.
Markham thinks about his life pre-Embrace and post-Embrace. How much has changed? Too much, but also not enough.
The world "changed," sure, but he just went along for the ride and didn't question certain things. However, the cracks in his faade are beginning to show.
The 2 vampires ride around the city for the next few hours. Diego picks up a few informal day laborers (the vatos usually hanging around Home Depots and Walmart parking lots, selling their labor power for scraps) and offers to get them some food and drop them back to their homes.
He does this expecting nothing in return. Markham simply remains as a fly on the wall, as it were, letting the others do a vast majority of the talking.
After the last guy, barely 18, has been dropped off at his home, Diego takes Markham to go see some lowriders and maybe give him a ride in 1. Baby's first lowrider.
In the Prairie Ridge, Apartment 303...
Mauve has already waken up from her day-long slumber. She looks around her Haven and seems quite impressed with how Diana was able to nicely clean everything up and get it looking great despite all the wild partying last night.
She walks around the place and takes in the sights, smells, and sounds. Her enhanced hearing helps her detect the subtle sounds of crickets chirping and the faint sounds of wind rushing through the leaves in nearby trees.
She bathes, looks at herself in the mirror. Still as dull and baggy-eyed as ever. The Malkavian wears a simple t-shirt and shorts and prepares to head out to sate her Hunger.
As she's locking her door, Paul calls out to her, "HEY! HEY! Where the fuck do you think you're going?!" He has this wild look in his eyes- his pupils are dilated and his eyes have a redness to them. His hair is unkempt and his shirt is full of stains. He's also very twitchy, even more so than usual.
Mauve looks askance at him, "I'm uh...heading out for a quick walk, Mr. Cho."
His hands shake and he commands her, "Open the door! Now!!"
Mauve clutches her keys and takes a step back, "Are you OK, Paul? You don't look so--"
Paul snaps at her and rushes forward. He attempts to grab the keys from the Malk's cold hands, but she swiftly moves out of the way and puts the keys back in her pocket.
Mauve gives him a look of concern, "Paul, you really don't look so good."
"SHUT THE FUCK UP, BITCH! OPEN THE FUCKING DOOR! NOW!" He raises his voice so much that a neighbor pokes her head out and gives him a dirty look.
Mauve stands firm and tries to reason with him, "Paul, you really need to calm down and--"
"SHUT UP, SHUT UP, SHUT THE FUCK UP!" His entire body shivers and his teeth are chattering. He keeps making these jerky movements that Mauve hasn't seen before.
The Malkavian firmly tells him, "Look, Paul, if you just stay calm and don't lose your cool, then I can--"
Paul has had enough, "Gimme the keys, bitch!" He approaches her with menace punctuating every step.
Mauve backs away until she hits the wall behind her. Paul leers at her and he goes for the keys again. This time, he gets a grip on them and yanks them out of her cold hand. She stifles a gasp and Paul goes to open her door.
Feeling frustrated, he tries the keys over and over again until Mauve sheepishly offers, "It's...the other way, Mr. Cho."
Paul grunts and makes some other noises, "Fuck you." He manages to get the door open after a few seconds of trying to get it to work.
He enters Mauve's Haven and begins tearing it apart, looking for something. He tosses things left and right. Just when Diana cleaned this place up, and this bozo comes in to tear it apart!
Mauve quietly observes, "Um...you OK, Paul? Did you forget something last night?"
(He forgot the blow that Luciano stashed in "a safe place").
He ignores her and continues tossing things all over the place. He doesn't seem to be satisfied with what he's not finding, though.
Mauve tries to contain the situation by following him from room to room and asking, "Was it your phone?"
Paul growls and grunts and tells her, "Stay back, bitch!! Stay the fuck back!"
Mauve holds her hands up in surrender, palms facing outward. Despite being distracted by her Hunger, she's more perturbed by Paul's erratic behavior. She's also a little scared by him being all mean and erratic and jumpy.
Mauve tries to ask again, "If it's not your phone, then what is it?"
Paul stops in the middle of the room and throws something of a manbaby tantrum. He stomps on the floor, curses like a sailor, and runs his hands through his hair. He looks like a real mess.
His eyes are red, his face is covered in sweat, and he's breathing like a bull about to charge.
Mauve gulps and looks VERY afraid. She demurely shuffles herself to her bedroom door and stands by it.
She quietly asks, "Is it your uh...cocaine?"
Paul stops in his tracks and looks at her like a deer caught in headlights, "W--What? YOU! You fucking know where it is, huh? You--you been helping yourself to my fucking candy?! HUH? I paid $8500 for that shit! $8500!"
Mauve's face falls, "I--I don't--um...I don't know where it is, Mr. Cho."
Paul bitterly spits, "Don't 'Mr. Cho' me! You've been burying your beak in it, huh? Haven't you!?"
Of course, a vampire won't feel anything when doing drugs, but Mauve doesn't pursue that particular line for obvious reasons. She merely shakes her head in denial, "No, no, no. No, I--I really don't know where it is, I swear. I don't."
"BULLSHIT! GET OUTTA MY WAY! I wanna search YOUR room now! It's MY fucking stash that I fucking paid for with MY FUCKING HARD-EARNED MONEY!" He tries to enter her room, but she moves to block him.
Mauve stands firm and raises her voice, "You will not enter my room, Paul! This is MY Haven and I--" she catches herself before saying anymore.
Whoops.
Paul doesn't care and cuts her off by pushing her aside with surprising force. With her vampiric strength, she could snap him like a twig, but she remains far too fearful and far too uncertain of the situation.
She doesn't want to hurt Paul and make Luciano angry at her. Also, she can't risk this arrangement they've got going on here, so she does the only thing she can think of- let the dope fiend search her room.
Her room is the only place in this Haven that holds a part of her. Everything else in her apartment is just for the sake of maintaining appearances and keeping up with the Joneses.
Paul continues his search, tearing open drawers and cupboards, emptying out dressers, and flipping over cushions. Like a madman, he rifles through her undergarments, bras, socks, and other stuff like that.
He finds nothing. There's no pound of cocaine hidden in the bathroom or the bedroom, nor is it hidden anywhere else. He goes back out to the living room area and looks under the sofa.
Nothing.
Paul mutters, spit flying out, "Where the fuck did he stash it?!"
Mauve sheepishly asks, "Did--Did you um...try looking in the kitchen?"
Paul glares at her and storms over to the kitchen, where he finds nothing. No 1 pound of pure blow stashed behind the fridge or behind the oven, not even hidden inside the pantry.
Despite not having fed, Mauve figures it might be worth a try to (secretly) activate her Auspex Discipline so she can help find Paul's mojo and get him the fuck outta her hair.
She moves aside, her eyes changing to a variegated swirl of colors. She quietly whispers to herself, "Where did it go? Where's his coke?"
After a few minutes of searching, she finally sees a faint glow in the distance- a glow that only she can see. Paul continues making a mess of everything, while the woman he barely pays attention to begins to zero in on the location of his prized stash.
Mauve finally finds what she's looking for- it's deep inside an overhead kitchen cupboard, shoved all the way behind oregano seasoning bottles, salt and pepper shakers, and some other stuff used to flavor food.
After deactivating her Auspex, she tells Paul, "It's in here."
Paul frantically asks, "Which one?"
Mauve gingerly points to it and Paul immediately rushes over. He shoves her aside and takes down the bottles and jars that are in his way. 1 slips from his grasp and shatters all over the floor!
He finally finds his precious pound of coke! He holds it up in the air like it's some kind of trophy, laughing maniacally and dancing around like a fool.
Mauve looks down at the shards of broken glass and oregano flakes that now litter her floor. She looks up at Paul with a weary and disheartened look on her face.
She feels so horrible on the inside. The Malkavian shakily asks, "You gonna clean that up? I--I mean you broke it, so--"
Paul scoffs, "Fuck you! It's your joint! Luciano pays the rent, he pays the bills. He does enough. Clean it up your fucking self! Jesus, bums like you ought to be a little more grateful for all the shit that guys like us do, hmm?"
Mauve, not intent on antagonizing the best friend of her benefactor, finds a broom and dust pan. With a sad and defeated expression on her face, she begins cleaning up the mess that another adult made in her kitchen.
Paul goes to the front door, pausing for a moment to turn back and tell her, "Thanks for nothing, bitch! You're lucky you don't get cut off, or else we'd throw you outta this fucking place even before you had a chance to blink! Hah!"
He exits, slamming the door behind him. Mauve sighs deeply and continues cleaning the kitchen. As she's sweeping, her Beast continues to roar and scratch within her, almost like a cat repeatedly scratching at a door.
The Malkavian's stomach grumbles and she feels the need to feed intensify. She needs to get outta here and find some blood. NOW!
So, she does just that. She puts the cleaning aside and goes downstairs. She's hit with some of that polluted city breeze when she exits her apartment complex.
She goes through the usual rigmarole of finding a suitable person, isolating them, biting into them, not killing them (preferable), and then licking those bite marks shut.
Once her Beast has calmed down, she goes straight back to her Haven. She doesn't stop for anyone or anything. At the edge of her apartment's entrance, her eyes gloss over to the homeless folks that are near (and around) there, as per usual.
Mauve stops for a moment and turns to look at them. Some are huddled together under a single blanket, while others are all by themselves.
She looks at the handmade bracelet around her wrist and wonders to herself if that homeless teenage girl she was friends with is doing OK, but in a city as cruel as Flimont, she can't be so sure.
Still, in her undead heart of hearts, Mauve Lilac hopes that that girl at least gets the help she so desperately needs. To think that it hasn't even been 3 months since Luciano offered her this...job (for lack of any better terms) and fancy place to stay in. And now, it's the only home she knows.
She goes back up to her place, exchanges quick and curt pleasantries with a few neighbors, and finally reaches her apartment. She unlocks the door and enters, locking the door behind her.
With a resigned and distant look on her face, she trudges to her room, puts everything back where it belongs, and finishes tidying up the rest of her place. She then collapses on the sofa, already feeling exhausted. Not from manual labor, but from the weight on her shoulders.
She lets out a heavy sigh and closes her eyes. Mauve doesn't permit her mind to wander too far, lest she get dragged in to the Malkavian Madness Network- the psychic link shared by all of the Children of Malkav regardless of where they are in the world or who they are.
Hell, it doesn't even matter if they've been reduced to ashes, their minds can still be heard in the Cobweb and their memories (in some form or the other) continue to "live" on. It's an interconnected web that can never truly be cut because there's no physical space to attack.
It's just...there. It's always been there. And it'll always be there.
Once out of her mini reverie, Mauve gets off the sofa and begins to work on enriching her benefactor through her unique relationship with the numbers- she turns on her laptop and gets to work. Her Malkavian mind works in unusual ways.
Back to Markham and Diego...
Diego parks his pickup truck near a random garage. Markham follows his Gangrel buddy, who knocks on the door and greets the owner, "Yo, Raul! What's good, homie?"
Raul's face is smudged with motor oil, grease, and grime. His gray shirt is also covered in oil, as are his jeans and shoes. The man smiles widely, revealing sharp fangs with traces of blood on them. He gives Diego a big hug.
Raul nods over to the Baali, standing in the corner of this well-lit garage, "Who's the Gringo?"
Diego makes the necessary introductions, "Markham. He's us, well not us-us, but us. Know what I mean? He's a good friend of mine."
Markham waves and says nothing.
Raul nods and grins, "Cool, cool. Hey, Markham. Good to meet you, ese. I know a government stiff from a mile away, haha!"
Raul looks to be in his late-20s. He has some stubble on his chin, his chin-length hair is a little messy and slicked back, and he has a few tattoos on his forearms. His jeans are baggy, and his gray shirt is stained and a little torn. He looks like the quintessential mechanic.
Markham looks confused, "How did you know--?"
Raul heartily laughs, "Ah, you government stiffs all have this...distinctive stance. The way you handle yourself and behave and stuff. Y'know, I used to work for the Federal Government, too." He stops there.
Diego fills in, "Yeah, Markham is uh...new around these parts." With that, he fills his fellow Gangrel in on Mr. Reed's current predicament and their current quest to find Roxanne.
By the end of it all, Raul smirks and wipes his hands with a tattered cloth, "Ah, shit. That's fucked up, ese. Fucked. Up. It ain't right." The 2 vampires can see some sympathy on the Gangrel mechanic's face.
Raul goes on, "Man, when I was working for the IRS, shit never got this tense, haha. All the shit I saw and experienced, it was a helluva ride, man."
Markham's eyebrows go up, "What did you do there?"
"Well, I was an auditor, basically. Then, fangs pierced my neck and things changed...now, I just fix up lowriders and shit like that. It's not exactly retirement, y'know. But, it has its moments."
Markham simply nods and doesn't say much.
Diego whistles when he sees the shiny red lowrider that Raul's been working on. It's a classic and it's in beautiful condition. He looks at his buddy with wide eyes, "Damn, son! I'm impressed."
Raul smiles and proudly shows it off, "This, my friends, is a 1964 Chevrolet Impala. Got it at an auction for pennies on the dollar, haha! Took a few weeks to get the thing fixed and looking like this."
Markham walks around the car, looking at the paint job and the interior. There's a radio and some speakers. The leather seats have been restored and they're nice and new. The rims are chrome and shiny.
Raul tells Diego, "Wanna go for a ride, ese?"
Diego bites his lower lip and looks at the Baali, "Yeah, I wanted to give our Gringo friend here his 1st ever lowrider experience." He winks and claps his guest on the shoulder.
Markham shrugs, "Why not?"
Raul laughs and tosses the key to his fellow Feral, "Don't break her, don't scratch her, don't crash her."
Diego hops in, puts the keys in, and smiles in satisfaction when the car's engines purr to life. Raul goes out and stands next to the Baali. He leans over and asks, "So, how long you been a Kindred?"
"Since the 1970s."
"Heh, you're still new, then. A Neonate. So, how have these 30 or so years of immortality been treating you, my friend?"
"I can't complain."
"Hmm, a man of few words, huh? So, Baali, hmm? Unlike the rest of these Cholos, I don't got no beef with you...cuz I don't own no pets- too much to maintain and the prices of dog food? In this economy? Oh hell nah."
Markham points out, "I don't have anything to do with the other Baali here."
Raul clicks his tongue, "Easy, ese, easy. Looking for that Brujah puta, huh?"
"Something like that."
Raul shakes his head and snickers to himself, "Yeah, I've...been with her."
Markham lifts an eyebrow at that statement, but he doesn't comment.
"Oh yeah, she's a good time, man. A little on the pricey side, but well worth it, heh. The Brujah might be your best bet for finding the scum who tried to off you. You know that Flimont City has got loads of unsolved murders, right?"
Markham dryly responds, "Yeah. I've heard. So, there's what, an organized...group carrying out the hits on behalf of the city's more well-heeled individuals?"
Raul chuckles, "Summin' like that, ese. It's just...well, you've seen the city and all its...dirty little secrets, eh?"
"Not all of it."
Diego is busy getting a feel for the car. His hands are tightly wrapped around the steering wheel. He fiddles with the radio when Raul hollers out, "Hey! Hands off the knobs! I still haven't finished putting in the new stereo system yet!"
Diego grins and yells back, "C'mon, can't a vato just--"
Raul shouts, "NO! DON'T PUSH THE BUTTON!"
Diego raises his hands in mock surrender and goes back to revving the engine, the sounds like a symphony orchestra to his ears.
Raul picks up from where he left off, "Like I was saying: this city ain't a kind place to most busters on the best of nights. On the worst of nights..." he stops and shudders a little.
"Hmm. I hear you."
Raul continues, "If someone is willing to pay enough, then the hitters will come in and make sure the dirty deed is done, y'know? Hell, from what I heard, even little kids ain't off the menu. There was this pretty grisly series of killings back in um...'97."
Markham softly growls and shakes his head, saying nothing.
Raul sniffs, "Just watch your back out there, ese. You're playing on someone else's turf- thankfully this hood's been spared from the worst of these cocky speculators and their insane schemes, but I can't guarantee that it'll always remain this way for the foreseeable future."
"Will do," Markham takes the Gangrel's advice and walks over to the lowrider. He gets in the passenger seat and looks a bit uneasy about the whole thing; much still weighs on his mind, though.
Diego puts his foot on the accelerator and exits the garage. As he's leaving, he screams out, "WHOO-HOO!"
Raul reminds his fellow Outlaw, "Not a scratch, not a dent, not a ding!"
"YEAH, YEAH!"
The 2 vampires take off. Markham is quiet for a moment before he tells Diego, "We need to find Roxanne."
Diego has 1 hand on the steering wheel, while the other sticks out the window. He has a huge grin on his face and a twinkle in his eye, "Yeah, we will, we will. Let's just...enjoy this little moment, OK?"
"Hmm," Markham looks at the city go by. The lights go on, the cars go past, and the people walk about. There are a lot of folks out and about, even though it's almost 2 AM.
On the cruise throughout the city, Diego informs Markham, "Y'know, lowriding is illegal in the state of California? The California Vehicle Code, pfft."
He growls and curses, "Fucking pendejos don't want us having fun, being human, or just existing, huh?"
"Maybe."
The wind continues to sweep Markham's hair and Diego's. They drive around, sometimes pulling up next to other lowriders and greeting each other. On the way, Diego does the cool lowrider thing- on a somewhat-empty stretch of road, he pulls down on something and begins bouncing the lowrider.
Markham feels awkward, yet a tad bit curious about the whole experience. Diego is grinning ear to ear, his fangs gleaming in the bright moonlight.
"Aw, hell yeah!"
A few regular cars pass by and some stop to check out the lowrider. The drivers and passengers give the Gangrel and his friend thumbs-up and some friendly jeers and heckling.
It's all in good fun. Diego is a master at handling the car and Markham is just along for the ride.
Diego pulls off a few more bounces, the car makes a "thuwmp!" sound and goes up and down, and the Gangrel howls into the night.
After the last bounce, he drives normally and turns to Markham, "So, how was that? Not too bad, huh?"
Markham regains his composure, "It was...something. I felt something swirling around inside me."
"Hahahahahahahahaha! Yeah, it do be like that, homes. It do be like that."
Baby's first lowrider was...good. It was different from Markham's usual experiences (which isn't much to begin with) and it was rather fun.
Despite being cold and withdrawn, he felt some kind of spark when bouncing along the street, especially since Diego was having a great time.
The 2 Kindred cruise for another hour. They drive down streets, make turns, and even stop to ask a few prostitutes about Roxanne. A man in very loose clothing and a bulky fur coat tells the duo where Roxanne usually hangs out.
With this info, the 2 vampires decide to look into it tomorrow. For now, Diego dutifully returns this lovely car to Raul. Raul looks it over, strokes his chin a few times (for dramatic effect), and shrugs, "Well, you didn't mess her up. Good."
"Thanks, homes!" Diego gives his buddy a big hug and they bump fists.
Markham stands by the side and waits. Diego bids farewell to Raul and rejoins the Baali.
Raul hollers out, "Don't be a stranger, Markham! If Diego or Marisol ever get tired of you, come by and we can work some kind of a deal for your living arrangements, eh?"
Markham smiles slightly and plainly waves to him. Raul laughs and slams the door shut.
Diego turns to Markham, "Well, what now?"
"Tomorrow, I follow the lead. I don't want you getting involved in this any further, Diego."
Diego side-eyes the Baali, "Why?"
Markham stifles a sigh, "Because it isn't your concern. It's mine- my case, my mess to get out of. Don't get me wrong- you've been a great help and you've shown me a lot, but...this is the part where you have to stand back and let me handle this."
Diego clicks his tongue, "That's the problem with Gringos like you- you think you're the lone heroes of some shitty cowboy movie where you have to do it all by yourself, huh? You're not. And this shit is a lot more dangerous than any of the cases you've probably dealt with before, ese."
Markham dryly responds, "It doesn't matter. I just...don't want you or Marisol, or anyone else for that matter, getting caught in the crossfire."
Diego lightly smacks Markham's shoulder, "Tch. We're Gangrel, homes. We're The Clan of the Beast, we can handle a couple of busters who try some funny shit with us, eh? Besides, I've lived in this city for a long time and I know it better than you do."
Markham shakes his head and looks down at the sidewalk.
Diego presses the point, "Let me tell you this: mi abuela always used to say that when you find a good friend, you stick with them. Through the thick and the thin. No matter what, homie."
Markham continues walking, remaining as wordless and withdrawn as always. The mention of a "friend" does bring up memories from his past, memories that have been buried and suppressed. Something begins to resurface...
"Ten-Hut! Markham, you're on point!"
"Yes, sir!"
"Remember, you're going with these fine men into battle, soldier. These men trust you and you trust 'em. Do NOT fuck up, understood?"
"Understood, sir!"
Markham's dressed in football pads and a helmet. His eyes are fierce and determined, but he's also quite afraid.
"You'll be fine, son. I'll be watching from the sidelines."
"Mr. Jenkins, I..."
"Just go out there and give it the best you got, kid."
The young Markham swallows the fear and apprehension building in his throat. He blinks a few times.
"Now, GO!"
"HOO-AH!"
"HOO-AH!"
"Hoo-AH!"
"Hoo-Ah!"
"Hoooooooo-ahhhh!"
A few others in similar football uniforms smack Markham on the back, as a little pre-game motivation, and rush out into the stadium. It's...packed. The sounds of trumpets being blown are no match for the wild and raucous cheering that erupts. The field is neat and bathed in cool, bright lights.
Amongst the cheering (and some booing) faces in the crowd, there she is...
She's sitting somewhere near the front, flanked by her mom and dad- Markham's parents. Her face is round, slightly freckled, her eyes are gray (just like Markham's). She has a soft smile on her face, like a good luck charm.
She wore her long and black hair down on that particular afternoon. Her clothes are simple and modest- a plaid shirt with some dark dungarees.
She waves and mouths, "Good luck, little brother."
Markham sheepishly waves at her and smiles.
Coach Jenkins claps Markham on the back and reminds him, "Remember what we talked about. I believe in you, soldier. So does Daniella over there."
Daniella, yes, that was her name. Some called her Dani. Daniella Reed, Markham Reed's older sister, his confidant, and yes, his friend.
Just then, her face begins to morph and contort into something monstrous. Markham gasps, his eyes wide open. Daniella begins to get crushed and mashed under something unseen, but overwhelmingly powerful.
"AAHH!" Markham gasps loudly and stops in his tracks.
Diego continues walking on the sidewalk, yapping, "...Look, man, you can't take these bastards down alone, and if you try to do it solo, then it's only gonna end up badly. Badly for you and badly for those poor folks. So, if you're gonna do something stupid and get your ass kicked, then let me come along and make sure you don't fall too hard, hmm?"
The Gangrel turns on his heel and sees Markham standing there, with a distant and sorrowful look in his eye. His mouth is slightly agape, and his eyes are focused on something only he can see. Markham doesn't appear to be here in body. He's...somewhere else.
For the moment at least.
He snaps out of it and looks around, mouth still agape, "I..."
Diego puts his hand on the Baali's shoulder and gently inquires, "You doing OK, homes? You kinda went...blank there for a sec." He gestures with his head towards his pickup truck and walks over. Markham follows, not saying anything. He's still stunned and still a little shaken.
Diego unlocks the car and gets in. Markham climbs into the passenger seat and avoids eye contact with his Feral buddy. Diego starts the engine, looks at Markham for a second, and pulls off.
"You uh...you doing alright, homes? Did I say something back there I shouldn't have said?"
Markham gulps and shakes his head, "No, no, I just remembered something."
"Oh! Like what?"
Markham sharply exhales, "The circumstances surrounding my Embrace...and Re-Embrace were traumatizing. My memories are so--so jumbled up, my emotions so confused. I don't think I'll ever really...fully understand or fully grasp the...circumstances."
For Mr. Reed, it is quite like a black hole of uncertainty. A void, an endless void.
Diego slowly and contemplatively nods, keeping his eyes fixed on the road, "Mm-hmm. Unlife can be tough, heh. So, like I was saying- we got your back. You don't have to fight through this shit alone, y'know."
"I know, I know, it's just that I don't want you or Marisol getting hurt or losing that Haven of yours."
The Outrider clicks his tongue and smoothly takes a right turn, "Tch. Don't baby us, homes. We are perfectly capable of taking care of ourselves. Did you know that we repelled a bunch of Second Inquisition-affiliated white supremacists back in '95?"
Markham's eyebrows knit together and he looks confused.
Diego fills him in, "We did. The 5th Street Cholos sent those pendejos running like the scum that they are."
"SI-backed white supremacists? Since when???"
Diego bitterly chuckles and hits the brakes when the lights turn red at the intersection. A few cars stop alongside them. Diego answers, "Yeah, from what I could gather, those SI pendejos were experimenting with using loco militia types, white nationalists, nutty preppers, and other crazies to uh..."
Markham interjects, "Hunt you down?"
The Gangrel corrects him, "Hunt US down. Yeah, that was pretty much the whole plan." The lights turn green and Diego steps on the accelerator, "They even managed to destroy a few of our people. Fuckin' assholes." The last bit of his response came out as a soft growl.
"How?"
"The SI made sure those busters was packing some mad heat, homes. You ever seen a man shouting the most racist shit imaginable while clad in body armor and wielding a flamethrower? Cuz I have, and let me tell ya...it was pretty crazy. In the end, they got repelled."
"They got repelled, huh?"
"Oh, they got the fuck beat outta them. But I'd like to sit here, look you in the eyes, and tell you it was a great success."
Markham shifts in his seat, "You lost some people? How many?"
"We lost A LOT of good Cholos." The Baali looks to the driver, but the Outlaw's face remains unreadable, save for the twitchy eyelid.
Markham observes, "Something happened?"
Diego pulls over and stops at the side of the road. He fiddles with the radio and the music starts playing, drowning out the sounds of the night and the dense traffic.
The Gangrel shakes his head and leans back against the seat. His eyes are closed and he sighs, "It was the first time I killed someone."
"Jesus."
"Haha, yeah. It was some skinny white kid, 18-19 maybe, with swastika tats on his fucking arm. He cornered Marisol and--and he--he was about to--" Diego stops and grits his teeth, shaking his head. His knuckles turn white from gripping the steering wheel too tight.
The car goes quiet for a few seconds. The driver side window is open. Markham doesn't need to breathe, but it's comforting to him, like the night breeze sweeping his hair to and fro.
Diego stammers and his lips quaver, "He was dousing her in kerosene, he was about to light the match when--when something came over me and I--"
Markham interrupts, placing his hand on Diego's tensed-up shoulder, "It's alright, Diego. You did what you had to do to save the person you love."
Diego doesn't say anything. His eyes are glossed over and he's staring off into the distance, small droplets of blood trickling down. He takes a few moments to calm down and relax.
The Feral continues, "By the time I came around, his body was there, but it was all mushy and messy, like someone had taken a fucking sledgehammer and beaten his ass into a pulp." His fingers drum on the steering wheel.
Markham slowly mutters, "The Beast took over."
"Hmph, yeah. I comfort myself with that same...thought every now and then."
Diego closes his eyes and leans against the steering wheel, the horn beeps for a few seconds, before the Gangrel gets himself together and goes on, "In the aftermath, we drove the rest of 'em out and haven't been hit ever since. Shit."
"Hmm."
The Gangrel starts his vehicle up and wordlessly drives along. After a few minutes, they're back home. Diego parks and sees a woman leaning against a sleek red Mustang convertible.
Sheriff Velma DuPont is dressed in a trench coat, flats, and a blue blouse with a black skirt. Her hair is tied in a high up do and her lipstick is dark red. Her arms are folded and she's in the middle of conversing with Marisol.
She looks over at the 2 approaching Kindred and asks, "How you doing?" Her tone is smooth and friendly.
Diego flashes a winning smile, "Doin' great. Just cruising around, showing my friend here a good time."
Sheriff Velma lifts an eyebrow and smirks, "'Friend'? So soon, hmm? How you holding up, Markham? This Feral giving you any trouble?"
"I'm fine, and Diego has been a good host."
Marisol greets Diego and takes him aside, "We'll be inside, err...Sheriff."
The Ventrue Sheriff lazily waves her hand, but she firmly warns, "You're lucky I'm letting you off with a warning this time, Marisol. Next time, I won't be so lenient, darling."
Diego cocks his head, "What? Whoa, what happened?!"
Sheriff Velma explains, "Your girlfriend here was caught feeding on a runaway vessel set aside for the Ventrue earlier tonight. Of course, she couldn't have known, but if this happens again, I'm afraid I'll have to get more serious."
Diego's eyes go wide and he turns to Marisol, "What the hell?! I told you to be careful!"
Marisol calms her boyfriend down, "Relax, D. Relax. It was a mistake. Besides, would you rather I ignore my Hunger and Frenzy all over the city like a maniac, hmm?"
Sheriff Velma shakes her head, "Then, I'd have no choice but to put you down."
Diego gulps and his eyes widen a little bit, "It--it won't come to that. Please, uh...forgive us?"
The Sheriff faintly chuckles and looks at Markham, "Oh, I do like it when they squirm. Luckily, I'm in a forgiving mood tonight, but don't let this happen again." She gives Marisol a stern look.
Marisol repeatedly nods, "Yes, yes, yes. Sorry, sorry, sorry." She takes Diego by the arm and leads him inside. Markham watches the 2 Kindred go and then turns to face Sheriff Velma.
She looks the Baali up and down, "Markham, how have you been faring so far?"
"Good."
Sheriff Velma side-eyes him, smirking, "Hmm. Good is...better than what I was expecting, all things considered."
Markham lifts his chin, "What's that supposed to mean?"
Sheriff Velma points out, "You killed a man last night- a professional killer, no less. His buddies aren't the forgive-and-forget type, if you catch my drift. Maybe wonder boy LDJ really wants you out of the picture, huh?"
"Yeah, that's what I'm going with, but I still have a job to do and I can't let it be derailed by this."
"Derailed, huh?" Sheriff Velma looks off in the distance for a moment, before refocusing her attention on Markham, "You know, I understand your position here. You've got your bosses at the SEC who need results, but at the same time, you can't tell them...everything, right?"
Markham nods, "Something like that. What do you know about a Brujah prostitute named Roxanne?"
The Sheriff lets out a long whistle, "Damn. This is hardly the time to be getting laid, Reed."
The Baali sighs and glowers at her, "No, I'm not interested in that. She might have info on the group that hitman used to be a part of."
"Hmm. From what I've heard, she's a busy gal, gallivanting around Flimont's seedier parts, parts that I wouldn't normally visit. Just ask around and someone's bound to know where to find her on any given night."
In an almost passive-aggressive way, the Baali responds, "I know."
The Ventrue Sheriff picks up on this and smugly smirks, "Don't get cocky, Reed. Remember: you're a guest in this Domain. At any time, me or Prince Antonio could kick you out. It'd be a shame if you had to go back to your bosses at the SEC with no hard evidence and no story to tell."
"I'll keep that in mind. Thanks."
The Sheriff steps into her car, buckles up, and starts the engine. Before leaving she hands Markham a slip of paper, "That's where Elysium is. Tomorrow night. Be there. Memorize the address and lose the paper."
Without adding anything else, she zooms off into the dark night. The engine growls like a tiger. Markham takes the paper and goes inside his temporary Haven.
He looks around at his home for the next couple of nights. He knows he needs to get a lead on Roxanne, but before that, he pulls out his Motorola flip phone and begins dialing a number.
After the 3rd ring, he hears a familiar voice, "Clifford Wright, SEC Enforcement Division."
"Hi, Clifford. It's me, Markham. I..." he pauses and gathers himself, "I'm calling to check in."
Clifford sounds somewhat groggy, "Oh, wow, Markham. How are doing down there in Flimont City? Anything to report? Any updates or new leads regarding your investigation into Luciano and Paul?"
Markham can't exactly reply, "Yo, Clifford, someone tried to murder me and I'm certain it's connected to the 2 jokers we're investigating."
Instead, he replies with vague and general answers, "It's all good down here, boss."
Clifford heartily laughs, "Oh, hahaha! You better have a nice tan when you get back here! Is there anything you need, have you run into any trouble?"
"Nope, no trouble. Nothing that I can't handle."
"That's what I like to hear from my best man, Markham. Stay focused, don't get distracted, and let us know if you need anything else."
Before hanging up, Markham asks, "Uh...Clifford?"
"Yeah?"
Markham takes some time to inquire, "Um...how's Jamie doing? Has she...gotten into any hot water or...trouble of any kind?"
Clifford scoffs, "Apart from the stunt she pulled off a year ago? She's been pretty quiet since. And you risked quite a lot standing up for her like that, y'know."
Markham corrects his boss, "It wasn't a stunt, sir. It was her First Amendment right as an American citizen- she was exercising her right to free speech and giving her honest opinion."
(She took part in an anti-war protest and spoke her mind on a few matters related to it).
"Hmm, I'm not in the mood to argue with you right now. Jamie...yeah, she's fine. She misses you, though. A lot."
"I'll call her."
"Yeah. Get some rest, Markham. And when you get back, we're gonna have to SERIOUSLY talk about your future here at the SEC. I've sent your records to the Chairman and he's genuinely interested in meeting you. Who knows, there might be a promotion in your future."
"Thanks."
"Yeah. Stay safe out there."
With that, Clifford hangs up. Markham sighs and begins to dial another number. Diego asks if everything is alright. Markham responds with a tight smile and a nod.
As he waits for his friend to pick up, he tells Diego, "I'm just calling a friend."
Diego nods and leaves him to it. The Gangrel goes into the kitchen with Marisol and the 2 share a few sweet nothings, a little nuzzling here and there, and a few kisses.
On the other end of the line, Markham hears a voice message, "You've reached the cellphone number of Jamie Pollux, the one and only, haha! Please leave a message AFTER the beeping beep bop boop and I'll get back to ya!" She sounds cheery and bubbly.
He hears the beeping and he clears his throat, "Hi, Jamie. It's Markham. I, uh...I'm doing well, yeah. How are you doing? Staying out of trouble, I hope? Heh, I...I'll call you again, OK? Yeah. Take care. Bye."
He hangs up and looks at his phone's screen. He blinks and thinks of his Touchstone. He hopes that nothing bad happens to her and that she'll be fine.
Markham feels the weight of his Kindred condition bear down upon him and he slowly goes to the basement. Diego is cuddled up with Marisol on the couch. Her shirt is buttoned down and her hair is messy.
Diego's got a wide smile on his face and his arms are around Marisol's shoulders. The 2 are in the midst of discussing something.
The 2 Ferals spot Markham silently going down the stairs. Marisol gets up and dusts herself off.
"Hey!"
Markham turns around, "Hmm?"
Marisol regards the Baali for a moment, studying every detail, before she inquires, "How was your night? You keep my D out of trouble?"
Diego sits up, also interested in this.
Markham's face is impassive and he answers, "It was alright. We went around town, saw the uh...sights, met another Gangrel named Raul, and um..."
Diego chuckles and fills in, "Gave our Gringo friend his first ever experience in a lowrider! You should have seen the look on his face when that beauty went bouncing up and down, hahaha!"
Marisol plainly smiles and contemplatively nods, "Ah, nice, nice. Is that all you 2 did?" she folds her arms and waits for an answer.
Diego shifts in his seat, getting a little uncomfortable, "We also asked around for someone who might--might be able to help Markham here."
Marisol perches an eyebrow and raises her chin, "Oh, who?"
Diego hesitates a little, but he does sheepishly answer, "The Brujah prostitute, Roxanne."
Marisol grimaces, "That puta?! Why her?!"
Markham answers, "It's not like I have any other choice. Look, the people who that hitman used to work for don't seem like the forgive-and-forget types, and the longer I stay, the more I'm putting you both in danger."
Diego's brows furrow, "But we're Clan Gangrel, ese. Anyone fucks with the 5th Street Cholos, they ain't leaving on a full tank, y'know what I mean?" He does sound very confident in the martial abilities of his Clan writ large.
Even Marisol straightens up and agrees, "We can handle whatever is thrown at us, but..." she turns to Diego, "...we still have to be careful. No one wants a repeat of '95."
Diego nods and clicks his tongue, "Exactly. So stop worrying about us, but if you're gonna get violent, don't hurt our house too much- it's all we got, man."
Markham nods a few times, "Sure, I understand. Are--are you sure you're OK with having me around for a few more nights? I could easily find another hotel--"
Diego cuts him off, raising his hand, "Ah, ah, ah, ah, ah. No, we already decided- you're staying with us and that's that. You're in vato in distress and it's the right thing to do."
Marisol concurs.
Markham then asks, "What about Pedro? He's made it clear he hates Baali."
Diego waves his hand dismissively, "Pedro doesn't live here, me and Marisol do. Besides, you're a guest in our Haven and therefore a guest under the protection of the 5th Street Cholos. We got your back, homes."
Marisol warns, "Provided you don't do anything stupid or anything you'll regret--"
She takes a few steps closer to the Baali, "--like calling those pendejos at Immigration and ratting us out."
"I'm not planning on doing that."
"Good."
Markham goes downstairs, but before he does, he stops and turns to his 2 hosts, "And uh...thank you. For everything."
Diego hollers out, "Eyy, don't mention it! You'd do the same if we was in your shoes and you was in ours, right? Right?"
Markham quickly nods and continues on his way. Marisol goes back to Diego, the 2 of them whispering to each other and making small talk.
Markham settles into his temporary bedroom and takes a look at the slip of paper he received from Sheriff Velma. He commits the address of Elysium to memory, tears the paper up, and throws it away.
He then closes his eyes, but his mind is still buzzing with thoughts and worries. What's happening with these resurfacing memories is strange and unnerving, even for him.
Over the decades, Markham has done his best to suppress those memories to the darkest recesses of his mind. He simply goes about his work at the SEC, stays back to chat at the office for a few minutes, and always makes sure to get back to his Haven before sunrise.
It's been his routine, night after night, for decades. First, it was work as a fraud investigator for a small firm in the town of his birth. Fearing that his true nature as a vampire would be discovered, he applied for a job at the SEC.
They pretty much took him in and the night shift was just fine for his needs (which weren't much). His work has become his entire existence, and he doesn't mind that, for it allows him to go through his existence without incident or trouble.
For decades, he has maintained the Masquerade, and it's been working just fine. But, how long do charades like this often go on for?
Will Flimont City be Markham Reed's undoing? Will the cracks in his faade lead to dark places or is there a chance to do some good in a place that is anything but?
His phone starts ringing. The vibration is enough to rouse him out of his mini reverie.
"Hello?"
It's Jamie, "Hey, stranger, I got your message and my heart skipped a beat, haha! How are you holding up in sunny Flimont? Got a tan yet? Oh, oh, did you meet someone?"
Markham faintly smiles, "Jamie. Hi. I've...been pretty much focused on this investigation."
Jamie laughs, "Now there's the Markham Reed I know! All work and absolutely no play! No, but seriously, loosen up a little, y'know. Meet someone nice and pretty and kind and uh...y'know, hehe."
"Hmm. Yeah. So, how are things on your end? I hope you're uh...staying out of trouble."
Jamie sighs, "Yeah, I'm going along with the flow, haha. And I just wanted to thank you, again, for sticking up your neck for me after um...y'know, the thing."
Markham equably replies, "You're well within your rights as an American citizen to say and think what you want regarding current events, Jamie."
"Thanks. I--I mean it. You risked a lot by speaking up for me like that and I won't ever forget it." The sincerity in Jamie's voice is evident, genuine, and heartfelt.
Markham plainly responds, "You're welcome."
The anxiety is apparent in Jamie's tone when she says, "The more I read about Flimont City, the less I'm able to sleep at night. Uh...how is it down there? Is it as bad as they paint it??" her voice trails off into silence.
Markham scratches his cheek, "Hmm. I haven't really taken the time to see the city, but from what I've seen so far...yeah. It's pretty terrible, Jamie."
"Damn!"
"Hmm, yeah, that's 1 way of putting it."
Some awkward silence follows before Markham says, "Well, I should get back to work and let you get back to whatever it is you're doing, which I'm hoping is productive."
Jamie faintly chuckles, "Yeah, yeah. I miss our banter."
"Hmm, me too. Goodnight, Jamie. Stay out of trouble, keep your head low, and um...good luck with everything. I'll call you again, hopefully soon."
"Thanks. Same here- stay safe out there, OK? Byeee!" Jamie hangs up. Markham puts his phone away and closes his eyes again.
He thinks back to that memory that resurfaced earlier tonight. Coach Jenkins took small town, high school football way too seriously. Markham remembers that he'd constantly use military jargon, bark orders, and be a general hard-ass on everyone.
Sure, back in Markham's town, football was a big deal (especially on the local level), but Coach Jenkins took it to another (crazier) level.
There was a time in Markham's mortal life when tossing a pigskin around would've been a promising path for him- but things changed and took a horrible turn as time rolled on.
Right now, Markham deems it fit to not dwell on such painful memories too much. As it is, the circumstances around his Embrace (and eventual Re-Embrace at the fangs of Burt) are painful enough.
So, it's become a haze, an amalgam of jumbled images and emotions. Some things stand out, some don't. Most are lost to the passing years, the tides of time. But such things rarely stay buried (or lost) forever.
Back upstairs, Diego has just finished giving his lady a nice foot massage and he's getting ready for bed. Marisol looks at her boyfriend with great affection and love, smiling fondly at him. She strokes his hair and pulls him in for a kiss. Diego happily reciprocates.
Once he pulls back, he has that anticipatory look in his eyes, "You--you wanna do it?"
Marisol looks over to the door leading to basement and shakes her head, "Not with a guest around, D. I just don't feel comfortable. I'm going to need time to adjust to that Baali down there."
Diego softly sighs, "Yeah, I know. I just...I miss it."
Marisol caresses his face and reassures him, "Hey, I miss it too, but..." she leans closer and huskily whispers, "There's always tomorrow and the tomorrows after that."
Diego lifts an eyebrow, "Oh, yeah? Haha, yeah, I guess tomorrow ain't going nowhere, and we ain't going nowhere, either." He playfully pushes Marisol's shoulder and the 2 laugh a little bit.
Sunrise is around the corner, so they get ready for bed. Diego checks to make sure all the windows are shut and all the curtains are closed. He then joins Marisol in their bedroom and the 2 get cozy under the covers.
They give each other some tender kisses and wish each other a long and easy rest throughout the day.
Mauve shuts her laptop and sighs deeply. Her eyes are heavy with fatigue and she's exhausted from staying up all night working on her manipulating of the numbers to enrich her benefactor. She rubs her forehead and massages her temples.
She looks at the emerging sun from her living room window and wistfully says, "I'll never see palm trees in the day again." She gets up and heads to the bathroom to splash some water on her very pale face.
The water is just right and it soothes her. It also gives her some peace and clarity, if only for a few minutes. After that, the Malkavian snuggles up into her bed, puts on a black eye mask, and prepares to be taken in by the abyss of the day-long slumber that Kindred inevitably succumb to.
It won't be long before the paths of Mauve Lilac and Markham Reed converge, for better or for worse. Until then, there are many more things that still remain to be said and done.
Chapter 7: Shut Up, Pay Up
The sun, that great fiery star, rises over Flimont City and its mortal citizens go about their lives. The Kindred of Flimont City are all dead to the world, and will be until sundown tonight. Their minds and bodies are in a sort of stasis.
They are as cold as corpses, their Unliving bodies regenerating and repairing themselves during the day, as they dream of the night they've left behind and the night to come. For the Kindred, today is just another sunny day in "Sunshine City", and the days will roll on like this forever.
More or less.
Luciano is awakened by the sound of his alarm clock. He groggily knocks it down in an attempt to stop the irritating beeping. The clock tumbles down onto the hardwood floor with a loud "thud" and stops making noise. He slowly sits up in bed, yawning and stretching.
He blinks a few times, rubs his eyes, and hops out of bed. He's completely naked, his junk dangles a little, and he shuffles to the bathroom. He relieves himself and goes to brush his teeth.
As he brushes, he looks at himself in the mirror and smiles. He spits some toothpaste in the sink, washes his toothbrush, and carelessly tosses it into the holder. He then goes back to his bedroom and confidently walks out onto the balcony.
He surveys the city beneath him and begins his daily morning affirmations, "I'm King Kong and I'm a 100 feet tall. I own this city. I am this city. I'm Luciano-fucking-Donovan and I am the law. I'm the most powerful and richest fucking man in the city."
He aggressively roars a few times. He stretches out his hands to either side of his body and imagines himself crushing everyone who dares to oppose him.
With that, he goes back inside, goes through his closet, and finds something to wear- a pair of chinos, a short-sleeved shirt with a stiff collar and crazy prints on it, and some expensive sandals. He puts on a thin gold chain, some sunglasses, and some expensive cologne.
He admires himself in the mirror and shoots finger guns at himself, grinning like the self-entitled man-child that he truly is. He leaves his bedroom and heads to his kitchen. His phone rings and he goes to see who's calling.
He answers, "Yo, what's up? LDJ speaking."
It's Gordon, "Luciano. Put some clothes on. I'll be there soon." He sounds even more irritable than usual.
Luciano asks, "Why?" He looks down and notices that his fly is undone.
Gordon sighs and stifles a groan, "Because I'm not paid to see your junk, that's why."
"OK, sheesh, calm down. Jesus."
"We need to talk."
LDJ hangs up and attempts to make himself some toast. He frowns and scratches his head, not fully sure of how to work this very pricey toaster that he bought on a whim a few weeks back.
It's shiny and silver, with many buttons, switches, and knobs. It even has a bright display. He tries pushing some buttons and hitting some knobs. The display lights up and starts beeping.
"The fuck is this thing?!" he asks, maintaining his clueless grimace.
Like a caveman, he bangs on it with the heel of his palm a few times. He presses the biggest button and the toaster goes off, the metal part shooting up. The bread pops out, slightly burnt. Luciano chuckles.
He then puts the toast on a plate and takes a bite. It burns the tip of his tongue and he spits out the toast, muttering, "Ugh! Fuckin'...ugh!" He drops the toast on the plate and leaves it in the sink.
After failing at toast, he decides to take a few spoonfuls of Skippy peanut butter. With that sticky goodness in his mouth, he goes to wait for Gordon at his couch.
He can barely talk thanks to all the peanut butter he shoved in like a maniac. He's watching cartoons (he's not really paying attention) and waiting for his trusted associate to arrive. He thinks about all the good things that are coming his way.
He doesn't spare much thought about the SEC investigation that's been going on, and it's just as well- he knows, deep down, that a defanged agency like the SEC can't (and likely won't) touch guys like him.
Gordon's knuckles rap against the door. Luciano goes to open it. Gordon stands there and raises his chin slightly. He's wearing a bright orange cravat, a dark suit, silver-framed eyeglasses, and polished slip-on shoes.
LDJ claps his lawyer on the back. The latter winces a bit. The former asks, "So, what's up, Gordo? How you doing, huh?" he leads his retainer to the living room.
Gordon sighs and sits on a nearby recliner chair, "Alright."
Luciano leans forward and clasps his hands together, "So, what'd you wanna talk to me about, huh?"
"I take it you just woke up?"
LDJ proudly nods and grins, revealing splotches of peanut butter staining his teeth, "Hell yeah! You know me, I sleep when I want!" he chuckles heartily.
Gordon frowns, "Have you taken a look at your financials?"
LDJ's jaw almost falls, "Whoa?! Again. M--Mauve came through??"
Gordon plainly says, "You really should be more aware of things, Luciano. Don't end up like Paul- I swear, he doesn't even know his left from his right."
Luciano clicks his tongue and waves his hand, "Hey, Paul's my friend. Anyway, so uh...how much?"
The Pym Reaper sighs and rolls his eyes, "1.5 million dollars."
Luciano springs up from his seat and hollers, "WHAT?!" He pumps his fist and lets out a loud and long whoop. He even starts jumping on the couch and howling.
Gordon remains expressionless and motionless, letting the son of his most-valued client have his...moment, as it were. He waits for LDJ to calm down and for him to stop bouncing up and down like a child going through a mad sugar rush.
Finally, Luciano plops down on the couch, panting and grinning wildly, "Oh, man! Whoa, that Mauve's a fuckin' miracle!"
"Hmm. Just keep that one on a leash. I don't know where you find such people, and I don't care, but if she gets out of line, you call me and I'll take care of it."
"Take care of it? How?"
"Don't worry about it."
Luciano shrugs, "Well, OK, whatever. But uh...can we celebrate?"
Gordon looks at his watch and tugs at his cravat, "As much as I'd like that, I have a plane to catch- I'm going to Washington DC."
"OK?"
Gordon side-eyes Luciano, "The nation's capital? Anyway, I'm going there to take care of some business."
Mr. Pym reminds his client, "You're not my only client, kid. I've got others just like you all around this city- young kids with more money than they know what to do with." He gets up and adjusts his eyeglasses.
Luciano waves his hand dismissively, "Yeah, yeah, I get it."
Gordon coldly regards Luciano, "You should really call up your dad and talk to him. I'm sure Luciano Donovan Senior would be proud of his boy. I know I would." For a moment, he turns aside and looks out the window.
He mutters something under his breath before he turns back to LDJ, "Do you even know where he is now?"
Luciano Jr. clicks his tongue and states, "Yeah, he's in the fucking Cayman Islands, slamming every broad he sees and spreading his seed...ugh." LDJ shudders and grimaces at the image of his old daddy getting it on with countless (younger) women.
The image of his 70-something dad shagging (if you can call it that) 1 woman after another is enough to make LDJ feel sick. He thinks about how he's the product of his father's rampant philandering, and the thought kinda does make him uncomfortable.
After all, his own mother was a struggling middle-class artist who could barely afford to raise a son while Luciano Sr. was able to buy his boy the most expensive of gifts (fancy watches, branded shirts, designer sneakers, etc).
In a way, the young Luciano gravitated towards that- the stuff, the promise of more. And after mom died, LDJ lived with his dad, who is as ruthless as they come. There was a lot of verbal abuse and constant berating and name-calling.
LD Senior wanted to make sure that LD Junior grew up to be worthy of the Donovan family name (and immense wealth that came with it). There's a lotta pressure on LDJ to perform.
Gordon clears his throat, snapping Luciano Jr. back to reality, "Your dad's in Israel, looking to buy some property there."
Luciano's face scrunches up, "There's property there?"
"Yes, there is. Lots of it. It's just a matter of...evicting the squatters and other undesirables." The Pym Reaper's tone is grim and foreboding.
Luciano scoffs, "Ah, well, whatever."
"It'd be nice if you called him and spoke to him about what you've been up to."
"Yeah, yeah, get off my case, OK? I'll--I'll speak to my old man when I feel like, and right now, I don't fuckin' feel like."
Gordon shrugs, "Suit yourself. Do you even wanna know why I'm going to DC?"
Luciano tsks, "Tsk, yeah, to uh...do things."
Gordon paces around the living room, "There's another reason I'm going there..."
The Pym Reaper stops pacing and stands in front of the TV. He faintly chuckles at the cartoon on the screen and says, "It's regarding our SEC 'friend'. You do remember his name, right?"
Luciano grimaces and groans, "What is this, a fucking pop quiz? What's with all these questions, Gordon, huh?! I thought I had you...so you can answer 'em for me! Man, thinking is hard sometimes."
Gordon points out, "You know I won't be around forever, kid. You gotta learn to handle these things when I'm not around--"
"You won't be gone for THAT long and you seem pretty healthy enough, just uh...don't eat drugs and, no wait, don't do drugs and um...eat your greens, right?"
Gordon pointedly responds, "That kind of advice is more suited for that dope fiend you call your best friend. Seriously, do something about his cocaine problem."
Luciano raises his hands defensively, "OK, OK, I will. Don't worry about Paul- he'll be fine. Jeez."
Gordon's eyes narrow and he crosses his arms, "So, what is the name of that SEC guy who's looking into you?"
Luciano squirms in his seat and tugs at his collar, "Uh..."
Gordon exhales sharply, "It's Markham Reed, Luciano. He's 43, or at least that's what his official records say, but something stinks about him and I'm going to DC to investigate."
"Why DC? Is that where this cazzone (ITA: idiot) is from?"
Gordo answers, "Well not exactly DC. My research indicates that Markham Reed was born in a small town a few miles east of the nation's capital. It's called Greenridge, great property values, if you're interested that is. Nowadays, it's mostly a manufacturing town with factories clogging up the place."
"Uh-huh. And here I though whacking this clown was gonna be easy. Marone. May--Maybe we should've just paid him off or--"
Gordo cuts him off, "No. I don't have all the details yet, but we need to take care of him, Luciano. The sooner the better. Normally, yes, government employees like him would be susceptible to a little...'gift'."
"But?"
Gordon continues pacing about, "But something about this guy just...doesn't click."
Luciano queries, "What about that hitter we paid 60-fucking-grand to, huh?! 60-fucking-grand and no results! I want my fucking money back!" he growls.
Gordon firmly orders, "Calm the hell down, Luciano. The organization the hitter used to run with doesn't do refunds. Deal with it." His tone leaves no room for arguments.
LDJ shrugs, "Sure, whatever. I...got money."
"But it's not all gloomy."
"What do you mean?"
Gordon subtly smirks, "Read today's papers. I wouldn't want to spoil it for you. Let's just say that a thorn in your father's side has finally been...taken care of. For good, this time."
Luciano looks askance at the Pym Reaper, "Sure, thanks, I guess? So, you gonna what, go to this guy's town and um--"
Gordon interjects, "Piece this goddamn puzzle together. In all my life, I've never come across something so--so goddamn frustrating! Like I said last time: the only match I got for Markham Reed just doesn't make any sense." The exasperation in Gordon's voice is apparent.
He continues, "It's like he fell from the sky or some shit. I--I don't know. That's why I'm going there, to get to the bottom of things and hopefully, put this shit to rest. That's why I need you to watch yourself closely while I'm out."
LDJ shrugs, "Hey, I ain't no fucking baby, I can take care of myself just fine."
Gordon points to the side of his mouth, "You got a little Skippy there, Luciano."
Luciano annoyedly wipes his mouth and grunts, "There, happy now?"
Gordon nods, "Anyway, I'll be gone for a few days. Please don't call me unless it's absolutely urgent. I need to focus and do my job without any distractions."
He points a stern finger, "Remember: unless it's ABSOLUTELY URGENT and you have literally no one else to turn to. I'm not here to kiss your booboos, kid."
Luciano scoffs, "Alright, alright, man."
Gordon goes on, "You still have my number in case you need anything, right?"
LDJ nods, "Yeah, yeah, I do."
Gordon Pym curtly nods and makes his way to the front door, he quickly reminds his client about a few (very important) things and leaves LDJ's place. Luciano watches from the balcony as the Pym Reaper gets in a car and drives off.
"Pfft. I can handle my shit just fine. Ya go on and have a nice time in DC and whatever the fuck that town was called. Greens-whatever. Hmph, sheesh."
LDJ goes back inside and sits down on the couch. He looks around his opulent living room and admires the high-end furniture. He grabs the remote control and begins to flip through some channels.
After a few minutes, he calls Paul and relays the good news regarding the latest 1.5 million dollar windfall. Mr. Cho, of course, is pleased and he agrees to come over in a few hours.
He sounds very groggy and kinda high. Luciano rolls his eyes, not caring to ask where or how or with whom Paul spent his night. After the call, Luciano orders some pizza from Peppy's, since he's already got the munchies and the urge to indulge his every whim.
The pies set him back $100 (he refuses to tip) and succinctly shoos the delivery boy away. LDJ has a few slices and a can of Pepsi before he decides to take a short nap. He leaves the half-eaten pizzas in the kitchen and heads upstairs.
As he's about to sink into his bed, Paul rings the bell. Paul sounds like he's coming down from a very hard trip, so LDJ tells him to take a breather and calm the hell down. A few moments later, Paul enters the house.
"Wow. It always looks so bigger on the inside," he says, craning his neck. His gaze is unfocused and his movements are sluggish. He looks and smells like someone who's been up all night and had a very long bender. His eyes are bloodshot and he's twitchy as hell.
LDJ smacks his buddy's shoulder and beams, "1.5-fucking-million bucks, man!"
Paul softly groans and rubs the place where his best friend smacked him, "I know, I know. I guess that um...golden goose of ours is really laying some fat ones, huh?"
"Mm-hmm. C'mon, I got some pies from Peppy's. I asked 'em to put whatever on the pizzas, and boy, it's fucking crazy! I had 3 slices and I'm fucking stuffed! It's the best shit ever!" LDJ giddily leads Paul to the kitchen.
The latter sits at the table and looks at remaining boxes of pizza, all open. He sluggishly helps himself to a pizza topped with chunks of barbequed chicken, tomatoes, capsicums, and olives. Some bits fall off and he hastily shoves them into his mouth.
His stomach rumbles, he belches, and he wipes his lips. He takes another bite, and another, and another, until a box has been cleared.
Luciano stands aside, jaw slack, eyes wide, "Whoa! You weren't joking about the munchies, huh?" He's amazed at his friend's ravenous appetite. Paul looks like he hasn't eaten in a while, but Luciano doesn't press him for deets.
And what else is there to say? The afternoon rolls on and draws to a close when the sun begins its unceremonious retreat beneath the structures of Flimont City. The skies turn dark and the Kindred begin to awaken.
Markham wakes up a bit later than the rest. He's got a stiff neck and a pounding headache. He sits up and rubs his temples. He groans a few times and shifts around on the hard mattress. It's a wonder he even got some day-sleep on such a stiff thing.
Then again, he's literally a walking corpse, so complaints and issues like this are pretty minor. The stiff mattress doesn't bother him as much as the nightmares he's had over the past few nights. They're the same ones that have plagued him for many years now. Always the same ones.
Only this time, they're a lot more vivid and intense. Markham can practically taste his own past traumas on the tip of his tongue. He can hear, smell, and feel the horror that's been the subject of his nightmares. They're almost always about his hometown, his youth, and whatever happened after.
He doesn't really remember much about those dreams, save for the overwhelming feeling of fear, dread, and despair.
For now, however, the Baali focuses on slaking his ceaseless Hunger, work, and finding Roxanne- in that exact order. He goes upstairs and finds Diego and Marisol snuggling on the couch. They're watching TV and laughing at some soap opera in Spanish.
Marisol greets, "Oh, hey." She turns off the TV. Her hair is all messy and her shirt is unbuttoned, revealing a bit of her chest.
Diego is dressed in a baggy checkered shirt, cargo pants, and socks. He's sitting up and his feet are resting on the coffee table. The TV remote is next to him and feels a bit sticky to touch.
Markham plainly greets the 2 Ferals and asks how they slept during the day. He's hungry, very hungry, and he needs to feed, ASAP. Marisol gets up and dusts herself off. Her hair is tousled and her shirt is still unbuttoned.
She quickly buttons it up and says, "OK, I'm going to work now. I'll grab a meal on the way. Take care of each other, you 2..."
Marisol wags her finger at the Baali, "...And don't get my man into trouble, OK?"
Markham nods as way of response.
Diego chortles, "Oh, hahaha! Relax, us vatos are gonna be fine. You go on, now. Err...have fun at work."
Marisol shakes her head and mutters, "It's work, D. It's anything but 'fun'. Hmm." She grabs her helmet, scooter keys, and purse and heads out.
Once the front door closes and she's gone, Markham turns to Diego, "Do you have an extra car or something I can use?" He's hungry and he'd like to get some blood in him before settling down to work.
Diego clicks his tongue, "No. But, don't worry, I'll take you to a different feeding ground this time- how do you feel about skateparks, hmm?"
Markham perches an eyebrow, "Isn't that where kids go?" he's genuinely confused at the Feral's suggestion.
Diego waves his hand, "Pfft. No, not exactly. It's mostly frequented by older folk looking to...unwind or whatever. C'mon, I got work tonight, and by that I mean helping build some crappy houses, doing some fruit picking, and other stuff that Gringos wouldn't touch with a 10-foot pole, heh."
"All that in 1 night?"
Diego snickers, but there's barely any mirth or joy in it, "It's what I gotta do to survive, homes. I'm an undocumented Salvadoran man being racially profiled by pigs, called names, and spat on. But, I still help to build these people's houses, pick their damn fruits, and clean their streets, and what do busters like us get for it? Huh?"
Markham's mouth forms a tight line and he averts his gaze. He's unsure of what to say, if anything.
Diego sighs deeply and grips Markham's shoulder, "I ain't saying all Gringos, homes. We've met some really cool ones- you, for instance, some chica at the diner...I've met a few good ones, and some not-so-nice but not-so-bad ones, and most are kinda in-between, y'know what I'm talking about?"
"Yeah. People are...complicated."
Diego concurs with a subtle smile, "Exactly. Do you ever wonder?"
"Wonder what?" Markham asks.
Diego continues, "If things are gonna get better in this new century- Y2K and all that shit. Cellphones, computers, and the Internet. What next, huh? Flying cars, robots?" He's a bit wistful and thoughtful, almost reflective, but only for a brief moment.
"I--I really don't know."
Diego shrugs, "Yeah, I--I don't, either. I hope it gets better- for all of us, man. But, there's a lotta shit from the past that remains...unresolved."
Markham agrees, "Mm-hmm."
Diego sighs and figures that Markham, being the cold and withdrawn person that he is, is gonna take time to warm up to others. Not that the Gangrel blames him or anything. Diego doesn't know what Markham has been through.
All Diego knows is that he wants to help and be a friend, as best as he can. A vato in distress is a vato in need, and is thus deserving of help. That's (sort of) his motto. He's willing to make sacrifices where needed.
Right now, he's trying his best to be a Good Samaritan, but Markham's not the easiest buster on the block to read. Still, Diego's gonna treat him good, regardless.
Diego goes to grab some tools, "So, yeah, the skatepark is the place to be. A lotta grown-ups. We don't feed on no kids, man."
"Yeah, same here. I can't speak for the Baali here because I don't know any of them, and quite frankly, I don't wanna get involved with any of them...or get too involved in Kindred politics around here. My work IS my priority."
The Feral flips a few light switches and ushers Markham outside. As they get to the curb, Diego turns around and says, "I hear ya, homes. So, what do you wanna do after we feed?"
"I need a place to charge my laptop and uh...if you don't mind, some peace and quiet."
Diego thinks for a moment, biting his lip in uncertainty. How would Marisol feel about leaving Markham all alone in their Haven while they're off working? He'd be an utter fool to leave a stranger unsupervised in their home.
Diego scratches the back of his head, "Hmm. I need to check some things out with the queen of the castle, first, haha." He motions for Markham to wait while he goes off to make a phone call.
Marisol's phone rings just as she finishes satiating her inner Beast. She quickly licks the victim's puncture wound shut, checks that their pulse is still strong, and gently places them back down in a nearby alley.
Her phone rings a second time. She looks at the Caller ID and answers, "What's up, D?" her voice is a little hoarse and low.
Diego nervously shifts around and fidgets with his car keys, "Hey, I--I just need to ask you a few things. You still busy, or..."
"Nah, I just finished 'eating'."
Diego faintly chuckles, "Good, good. Um...our guest wants to do his work. He says he needs a place to charge his laptop, sure, done. He also said he needs some...peace and quiet."
Marisol furrows her brows, "Hmm, I see. I'm not too thrilled about the idea of leaving him alone, but I understand his work is important. He can stay in the basement, as long as he doesn't make a mess."
Diego exhales softly, "OK, OK, that sounds great. I uh...actually fixed up the sockets down there last week, let's hope it doesn't zap this poor Gringo, haha!"
Marisol faintly chuckles along and gets on her bike. She bids farewell to her boyfriend, puts on her helmet, checks her clothes, and zooms off to her place of work, the scooter purring and buzzing along.
Diego returns and gently claps his hands together, "OK, the boss lady approved, but...don't make no messes or else YOU'RE on cleanup duty, OK? I got some sockets in the basement, if that's alright with you?"
Markham equably responds, "I can work with that. Thanks."
"Hey, don't mention it, c'mon, let's go and check out some skateboarders." Diego leads the way, the pair hopping into his pickup truck and heading off to the skating park.
Diego and Markham are cruising down the city's main street. They've left the neighborhood and are now on the main drag. The traffic here is insane and Diego has to drive very slowly, lest he get in a wreck or something.
His pickup truck is a few years old and could do with a check-up (along with an oil change), but he simply doesn't have the time or money to keep it adequately maintained.
Along the way, he shakes his head and gestures to the sea of cars in front of him, "Ah, traffic in this city has always been a fucking pain, man! What would normally be a 10-minute journey now takes 30, if we're lucky, hmph."
He goes on, "And people get real fuckin' mad, too. They honk and honk and yell and curse like mad, and that's when the cops come in and make everything worse. And busters who look like me end up getting stopped over and interrogated about our papers and random shit like that."
With anger in his voice, the Feral adds, "You'd think they'd be happy enough that we're doing all THEIR dirty work, and THEN some, huh?"
"Yeah. I hear ya. The system's...not exactly up to par."
Diego scoffs, "No shit. Remember those vatos we picked up and dropped off last night, the ones hanging around Walmarts and Home Depots, looking for some work so they can provide for their familias?"
Markham answers, "It's not something you easily forget. I remember seeing a few of them back in my city, but I didn't really know much about their...predicament."
"Hmph, yeah. Anyway, this is Flimont City, homes. And THIS ain't even the worst, lemme tell ya that much."
Markham inquires, "How do you help them, exactly?"
Diego replies, "Well, the only way I know how- I drive 'em to and from whatever job sites they've been 'hired' at and sometimes, I can lend them a hand, if they want it."
"Hmm."
Diego explains further, "Sometimes, their 'bosses', if you can call 'em that, are 'nice' enough to let me join in and do some work, too. I remember driving a guy to his court-appointed Immigration hearing a few years back."
Markham looks at Diego, "I assume it all went well."
The Gangrel scoffs, "For now, yeah, but who knows, hmm? Tomorrow, these pendejos might decide they don't want him in the country no more and deport his ass back to 'Mala, then what? You tell me."
Diego angrily pounds the steering wheel and mutters, "Fuck! Goddamn fuckin' bastards. This system's so fucked! I don't know who's more racist- the pendejos running the show or the ones enforcing the law, huh?!"
Markham turns aside and looks at the cars surrounding them. There are a lot of angry-looking people driving the cars, and the ones not driving are also looking pretty pissed off.
People honk their horns and shout and yell, waiting for traffic to trudge along.
The Baali tells the Feral, "Well, it's not all bad. We have due process. What you're suggesting seems...implausible, in my opinion."
Diego isn't too comforted by that assertion, "Mm-hmm. You think it'll be the same, in say, 10, 20 years, hmm?"
"What, it's not like they're gonna start snatching people off the streets. I'd like to believe in the rule of law, Diego. Due process, order, rights, stuff like that. Otherwise, it'd be utter chaos, and not even Kindred would survive. It'd be everyone for themselves, and there wouldn't be much room for us."
"Huh. I guess our immortal asses will be around to see just how bad it gets in 20 years from now. I wouldn't put any money down on it getting better."
(It gets real fucking bad).
The traffic moves along at a snail's pace, hell, snails are faster than the chugging, sluggish cars that move for a few meters and stop, rinse and repeat. The roads are congested, the air is polluted, and there are far too many cars and not enough infrastructure.
There are even a few fender benders here and there. Motorists get off and trade blows and harsh words. Markham grimaces at this unfortunate sight. Diego shakes his head, having borne witness to many such road-rage incidents over the years.
Eventually, the 2 Kindred reach their intended destination. The skatepark is a graffiti-covered concrete jungle, with plenty of ramps, bowls, stairs, and other fun features that appeal to the youth and young at heart.
Many people, Kindred and Kine alike, are already here. Some are chilling and listening to music coming out of boomboxes and other audio equipment. Others are riding, doing tricks, and enjoying themselves.
It's a warm and inviting place. The vibe here is laidback, the people are cool, and the mood is friendly and (generally) non-judgmental.
The lighting isn't all that great and there aren't very many places to drag a person for feeding purposes. Markham figures he'll just have to improvise. Diego figures as much.
But, the Feral knows exactly where he'll be going. He heads to the restroom and enters the farthest stall, leaving Markham to his own devices.
The Baali first has to decide who will be his prey for tonight. He surveys the area until his eyes land on some goth chick smoking some marijuana and showing off her navel piercing.
She's dressed in a black fishnet shirt, tight leather pants, and scuffed combat boots. Her hair is black and her makeup is dark and heavy. She's hanging out with a few of her goth and skater buddies.
She looks to be in her late-20s and has a certain wild and carefree demeanor.
Markham knows better than to approach his prey, so he waits until she splits from the rest of her group and follows her down a path leading to a secluded corner of the skatepark.
He watches her from afar as she sits on the concrete slab, pulls out a fresh joint, and lights it up.
It's almost too easy.
The Demon activates his Obfuscate Discipline. He completely fades away and becomes a shadow-like apparition, invisible to the naked eye. He approaches the goth girl, his footsteps not making a sound, and stands directly behind her.
He waits for the opportune moment, and when it comes, he wraps his cold, pale hands around her throat and yanks her neck back. The goth girl is shocked by this and drops her lit joint.
She struggles against the Baali's grip, but her resistance is futile. Markham leans in and bites into her neck, letting her sweet blood fill his mouth and pacify his roaring Beast.
He makes a few slurping sounds and tightens his grip when she tries to break free. Eventually, the girl loses consciousness and goes limp. Markham continues his feeding until the girl's blood supply is almost drained.
The goth lady is unconscious, but her pulse is still strong.
Thankfully.
Markham gently lets her down and makes sure she's comfortably positioned. He licks the wound on her neck and walks away.
He meets up with Diego and the 2 of them leave the skatepark. They have had their fill and feel refreshed and ready to face the night ahead.
Elsewhere...
Dr. Collins has just finished slaking his thirst in a more...civilized manner. He discards the bag of blood and tosses it in a nearby bin. He washes his hands and wipes his mouth. His fangs retract and he's left to look like a perfectly normal human being.
The Beast within is satiated and is no longer roaring at the surface.
The Tzimisce doctor then sits on an armchair and reads through today's newspaper. He folds 1 leg over the other and leans back. His eyes widen in surprise when he sees the 2nd page.
The headline reads: "Former Flimont Times Journalist Found Dead At Sunnyvale Home."
Dr. Collins lightly gasps and shakes his head. The drop head reads: "Nicky Schroeder, Aged 36, Was Found Dead At His Sunnyvale Residence, Authorities Claim Home Invasion Gone Wrong."
Surprisingly (or not), the police are very quick to sweep it all under a rug, shrug their collective shoulders, and move on.
Yeah, the same Nicky Schroeder that Markham spoke to a few nights back.
For his part, the good doctor mutters to himself, "Damn. Just damn." He peruses through the other articles, but nothing else really catches his attention.
He puts the newspaper aside, grabs his phone, and calls up his Ghoul, but it seems like Brock's phone is off; he's probably still in his classes. If anything, he's determined to become a plastic surgeon and make it.
The Tzimisce smiles at this, and not long after, he's got a visitor. It's none other than the Sheriff herself. She knocks on his door and the doctor allows her in.
The Ventrue Sheriff is wearing some smoky eyeshadow, a light trench coat, driving gloves, and heels. She's got a folder of some kind in her hand.
"I have news," she dryly says.
Dr. Collins motions for her to sit. She takes a seat opposite him and crosses her legs in a very elegant manner.
He then inquires, "Well, what is it?"
Sheriff Velma answers, "Meeting's been pushed back an hour. Also, I take it that you have the cash ready to pay Prince Antonio?"
Dr. Collins's face almost contorts into a scowl at the mention of the entrance fee into the Primogen Council, but he's quick to put on a professional smile, "Yes, yes. I do. $10,000- all cash." His voice is cool and collected, but there's some pain behind it.
The Sheriff nods, "Good. Count it and make sure there's no counterfeit notes."
Dr. Collins sighs, "Hmm, OK. Are there any more surprises you have for me?"
Sheriff Velma studies the Stoker from head to toe, eyes narrowed, "You know that I'll have to perform a full background check on you, right? To be honest, I wasn't expecting Prince Antonio to pick you as...interim Primogen. Speaking of, any news on Galeb?" she asks, voice low and eyes still narrowed.
Dr. Collins's brows go up a little, "No. Nothing." His face twitches and he quickly shifts in his seat.
The Sheriff cracks a quick smirk and raises her chin. She adjusts her hair and asks, "Something the matter, doctor?"
Dr. Collins evasively replies, "No--no. I was just uh..." he seemingly knows more about Galeb's disappearance than he's letting on, but Sheriff Velma is wise not to push him too hard.
Yet.
"Hmm, if you say so, then. Now, about your background check, you free to go over a few things now?"
Dr. Collins looks at his watch and shakes his head, "Actually, no. I have to go the clinic now. Patients to see, appointments to keep, and so on." He gestures to the door and adds, "Sorry, I'm sure you understand."
Sheriff Velma gets up and dusts herself off. She says, "Hmph, fine."
Before she steps out of the Flesh-Shaper's Haven, she turns around and offers, "Why don't I stop by your clinic later on, hmm? You could give me a check up and we could finish up with that background check."
Dr. Collins professionally answers, "If something ails you, then, sure, I can try to fit you in a few hours. I'll have to check."
The Sheriff reminds the Primogen, "You're not gonna shake me off so easily, Dr. Collins." She twirls her fingers and saunters off to her vehicle.
Once she's gone, the Tzimisce shuts his front door and breathes a sigh of relief. He goes to check on his private stash of bagged blood, and sees that it's starting to run dry. He's been drinking more often and consuming larger amounts than usual, lately.
"Hmmm, I guess I'll need to order a new one. Hmph." The good doctor proceeds to grab all his stuff (including the bag of cash) and leave his Haven. His first stop is the clinic, and from there, the meeting at Elysium.
At the clinic, there aren't too many patients, save for a few regulars and a teenager who's come down with a mild case of pneumonia.
Dr. Collins is very plain and very professional in his duties and function as a doctor. He's been doing this kind of thing for decades longer than he cares to remember. Still, it's something he's very good at.
Even his medical knowledge is bang-up-to-date and he never judges or looks down on any of his patients. Sure, his bedside manner could use some tweaking, but his dead heart is in the right place and he TRULY cares about helping the mortals who walk into his clinic, regardless of who they are or how much they have or whatever.
Wes, the receptionist at the clinic, continues fielding calls and filling out patient cards for the influx of new arrivals- a family of 5 has just come in and is being attended to by Dr. Collins, who's currently running a quick check-up and giving them their diagnosis and prescription.
Aside from the new patients, there's an older lady who's having a bad reaction to her medication and a young guy who's come to consult the doctor about his 5-year-old sister's recent foot surgery.
The Tzimisce doctor handles the cases and gives his patients his best advice. He tells a single mother of 3 kids that their eldest daughter has a mild case of asthma and the medicine she's currently taking is working well.
He advises the younger man to wait a little while longer and to give his sister's foot another week or 2 to heal up.
After a few hours, a fidgety-looking woman walks in and sits. Her small child trails behind her and has a runny nose, baggy eyes, and a hoarse voice. The mother nervously twirls her hair and looks around.
She's dressed in a very garrish and bulky outfit and her makeup is mismatched.
(Giving real trashy cigarette mom vibes).
Wesley asks, "How may I help you? Do you have an appointment, uh...?"
The woman's voice is barely audible, "Um...I have a...cold." She clears her throat and continues, "My daughter has a cough, a cold, a bit of a runny nose."
Wesley grimaces at the amount of snot just leaking from that poor kid's nose. He offers the mom a box of tissues and presses his lips into a thin smile, "The doc will be with you shortly. May I please have your name?"
"Wachowski, uh...Katherine Wachowski. My daughter is...Susie." The woman's voice is quiet and unsure. She looks at her daughter and rubs her shoulder. Susie's eyes are red and teary. She sniffles and coughs.
"OK," Wes gets up and knocks on the doctor's door, "Uh...doc?"
Dr. Collins puts away his private photo album of memories, tucks it away in his secret compartment, and goes to answer the door. Wes explains everything and ushers the duo in on the doctor's orders.
The young mother is visibly nervous, but the doc presents a calm and nonthreatening image to put her at ease. He has seen all sorts over the long years.
After a while, he diagnoses Susie with a cold and gives her and her mother some medication to take.
Katherine objects, "Do you um...do alternative treatments here, doc?"
Oh, great. It's one of THOSE types.
Dr. Collins stops himself from rolling his eyes, "No. I'm a real doctor, not some kind of quack. If you're into that, you're in the wrong place."
Katherine presses, her daughter continuously wheezing and coughing in the background, "Do you have something, say, a natural remedy? Something not derived from a lab or whatever. Something that won't make my kid autistic."
Aw, shit.
Dr. Collins furrows his brows when he hears that last utterance, "What's that supposed to mean? Nothing can 'make' you autistic."
Katherine wildly gesticulates, "Uh...vaccines can. I read this about this guy, Wakefield something something. He did a study on vaccines and--"
Dr. Collins stops her right there with a sternly raised finger, "Andrew Wakefield is a discredited liar, a disgrace to his profession, and a fraud."
He then realizes something, "Is--is your daughter even vaccinated?"
Katherine grimaces and makes a face, "What?! NO! Of course she isn't! I don't want her being all autistic and stuff!"
She continues, "You can't tell me what to do with MY daughter, doctor. This is a free country and we can do whatever we want here in America. So, uh...you got any natural remedies or something to help her out?"
Dr. Collins claps back, "So you'd rather have a perpetually sick child than an autistic one, is that what you're saying?"
Katherine gasps and puts her hand on her chest, almost insulted by such an insinuation. Her voice grows louder, "Excuse me?!"
The Tzimisce doctor doesn't back down, "What, are you willing to let your daughter die instead of vaccinating her? Do you know, do you have any idea what the world was like before vaccines came along? How old are you, anyway?"
"41."
Dr. Collins lifts his chin, "So, you were born in the 60s, then. That means you can remember the horrors of polio and measles, right? The crippling effects of these diseases."
"Um..." Katherine's eyes dart about.
The doc goes on, "It hasn't even been 50 years since smallpox has been eradicated from most of the world. Do you wanna know how they did it? Crystals? Crushed-up herbs? Letting it run rampant?!" His tone is firm, forceful, and unyielding.
"..."
Dr. Collins walks up closer to her and spells it out in no uncertain terms, "A coordinated vaccination program that costed a measly 300 million dollars. Despite the tensions of the Cold War, the Soviets helped--"
"I didn't come here for a history lesson, doc."
Dr. Collins scoffs, "That's the problem with people like you- you don't learn from history despite living through it. All you do is doom future generations, like your kid over there, to go through horrors that were thankfully put to rest by international cooperation, collaboration, and the hard work of the medical and scientific community."
He adds, "Y'know, the people who actually know what they're doing and talking about."
He goes on, "But you won't be able to appreciate it because, like an idiot, you refuse to vaccinate your kid, and that means she's gonna have a VERY hard life ahead of her."
The Tzimisce grimly concludes, "If she even lives that long."
The child is old enough to understand that last part. Her eyes widen a little and a look of fear washes over her face.
"Wh--wh--what?" her voice is barely a whisper.
Her mother tries to shush her and tells her everything is fine, but it had to be said. Dr. Collins never believed in sugarcoating things. If you had cancer, he'd tell you- no beating around the bush with this guy!
"Your kid is gonna suffer and die because of YOUR ignorance, not mine. You've doomed her, and I hope that you live with that for the rest of your life."
Katherine hugs her daughter closely and stammers, "Is...is there something I can do now, doc?"
"Apart from vaccinating your child, taking your medicines, and not being a pain in everyone else's butts, no, not really."
Katherine foolishly asks, "What about OxyContin? My ex-husband's cousin's brother's mother said it helped with her joint pain."
Dr. Collins sighs in frustration and massages his forehead with his fingers, "Oh my god. OxyContin is poison, alright? It's highly addictive and you have no business giving it to a child."
Katherine is still a little skeptical, "Uh...but Oxy is this wonder--"
Dr. Collins cuts her off firmly, "A wonder drug that'll turn you into an addict. I don't care about your anecdotes. Take a trip to southwest Virginia and see the wonders of Purdue's 'miracle' drug for yourself. If you have the stomach for it. No, no Oxy. Take the medicine I told you to take and get the kid vaccinated."
Katherine's expression softens a bit. Without saying much, she grabs her kid and bolts out the door, slamming it behind her.
The doctor's office is eerily silent for a few minutes, save for the ticking clock and Wes's tapping pen. The latter looks at his boss as he steps out and says, "Gee, doc, you sure told her. I--I overheard a bit of it. People still believe that Wakefield guy, huh?"
Dr. Collins growls, "If I ever see Andrew Wakefield, I'll skin the bastard alive and flay him."
Wesley is a little taken aback by that remark, "Woah, doc, easy there. It's OK. I uh--"
"He's done a lot of damage, Wes. He's got blood on his hands, kid, and the bastard's only getting warmed up."
Wes slowly nods, "Mm-hmm. Yeah. Vaccines absolutely don't cause autism, right?"
Dr. Collins sighs, "No. And even if they did, a healthy autistic person is much better than a child under 6 feet of dirt." He doesn't mince words or hide behind a thin veneer of tact, here.
"I mean, I hear ya, but I'm not a doctor, yet. I won't comment too much on the issue. But, when I do eventually become a doctor, I'll make sure to always ask about my patients' vaccination status."
The Tzimisce puts his cold hand on Wesley's shoulder and squeezes it, "You're a good kid, Wes. I'm sure you'll make a fantastic doctor someday."
Wes smiles from ear to ear, "Thanks, doc. It's good to have someone like you to look up to. Um, so, we don't seem to have any more patients coming in--"
Before Wesley can conclude, Sammie the Thin-Blood comes bursting through the front door. She's holding her son in her arms and almost on the verge of tears. Wyatt trails behind her, his eyes darting about and his head turning.
Sammie runs up to Dr. Collins and begs him to help her kid, who's having trouble breathing. The Tzimisce quickly motions for her and her son to come in and sit down.
The young mother explains Ralf's condition, "He--he said he was feeling all woozy, doc. Oh--Oh, doc, ple--please, help me!" every syllable is punctuated with desperation and worry.
"OK, OK, I need you to calm down, first." Dr. Collins looks at the boy's pulse and gently pats him on the back. The kid's eyes are glassy and his nose is runny, partially bloody. He's very pale and his lips are quivering.
The Dhampir child wheezes and mumbles something softly. Dr. Collins quickly grabs his stethoscope and listens to the boy's heart and lungs. The former is a little slow, and the latter are making some faint gurgling sounds.
Sammie looks on with horror. Her brother sits by her and holds her close.
After a few tense moments, Dr. Collins puts his tools away and says, "Well, your son is showing signs of acute bronchitis."
The Thin-Blood audibly gasps, eyes widened in horror.
Dr. Collins allays her fears, "It's OK. It's not serious, Sammie."
Wyatt rubs her back, "Shhh, shhh."
Sammie is a bundle of emotions right now. She looks at her son with great fear and apprehension, and she's a bit overwhelmed by what the doctor just said.
Dr. Collins continues, "Acute bronchitis is a mild respiratory illness that usually clears up on its own within a week or so. He just needs rest, plenty of fluids, and possibly some over-the-counter medications- not necessarily antibiotics."
Sammie nods and mutters, "Mm-hmm, mm-hmm. Uh, wait, fluids, like--like, b--blood?"
Dr. Collins asks, "Have you been giving him any of the blood I sent you?"
Sammie frowns and shakes her head vigorously, "No, n--no! I--I mean, I got it and all, but I'm just so...uncomfortable with giving MY KID blood, doc!"
Dr. Collins checks to make sure the door is shut. He doesn't want a mortal like Wesley overhearing this. He turns back to Sammie and asks, "What is it, exactly, that makes you uncomfortable?"
The young mother's face goes somewhat red, but she figures that she needs to be honest with the good doctor, "Um...it's just kinda gross, doc."
Dr. Collins softly sighs, "Look, Sammie. Ralf IS half-Kindred. He needs the blood, OK? I really wish there were another way, but your child NEEDS it. Think about it, you're a Kindred, his dad wasn't--"
Sammie scoffs, "Augh, don't remind me."
Dr. Collins continues, "The blood will strengthen his immune system and keep him going. As he grows, he's gonna notice a lot of changes in his body. He needs someone to guide him through it."
Sammie takes a deep breath, "I know. I just..." She sighs, her head drooping low, "...I'm just scared, is all. Scared of the blood, scared of him hating me when he grows up while I remain the same, I'm scared of any other Kindred coming after us and taking him away from me, o--or worse."
Wyatt gently shushes her, "Shh, shh, relax. Nobody knows and no one's coming to take your son away, Sammie."
Dr. Collins adds, his voice lowered, "Yes, what he said. As for the other Kindred, I won't let anything happen to you or your son."
Sammie skeptically presses, "How are you gonna even ensure that, hmm? That Sheriff, Velma or whatever her name is, is a fucking psycho. She killed a whole house full of Thin-Bloods a few years back! She'll kill me, Wyatt, my kid, and anyone she thinks is a threat to whatever it is she thinks she's protecting."
Dr. Collins doesn't necessarily disagree with Sammie, "Hmm. You might be right about that. She is a bit of a piece of work. Look, let me handle that, OK? Right now, you just focus on getting your boy better. Do you still have the blood with you?"
Sammie shifts in her seat and shoots a quick glance to her brother. The doctor perches an eyebrow. Wyatt admits, "We might've uh...helped ourselves to...err...all of it."
Dr. Collins exhales and shakes his head. He refrains from chiding them. Instead, he simply asks, "All of it?"
Wyatt answers, "Yes, all of it." He sounds very shaky.
The Tzimisce groans and gets up. He's gotta order a new batch, and soon. He turns to Sammie, "Alright, then, no worries. My personal stash was running out, anyways."
Dr. Collins reaches into a cooler and pulls out a couple of bags of chilled blood. The good doctor nods approvingly and motions for her to follow him. She picks up her son swallows hard.
The Stoker removes the cap from a blood bag and hands them to Sammie, who, in turn, gently pours its contents down the throat of her son.
"Open up, here comes the choo-choo train!" she half-heartedly says.
Ralf's mouth is wide open and his baby fangs are protruding- they look gnarly. He's able to drink a decent amount of blood, which is a good sign.
Wyatt looks away, grimacing. The smell of blood is quite pungent and potent.
The boy's face instantly brightens up and he hungrily slurps up the precious sanguine sweetness like it's juice from a juice box. His mother watches on with both awe and horror, but mostly the latter.
Ralf smiles and lets out a small burp when he's finished. Sammie's eyes are widened in shock and fear. She's seen a lot of scary stuff over the years, but nothing quite like this.
Dr. Collins observes the boy and is satisfied with his condition. He turns to Sammie and her brother, "Well, it looks like he's already improving."
Ralf flashes a toothy smile at the doc and playfully growls, fangs still out. Dr. Collins presses his lips into a very thin smile.
The Thin-Blood rocks her son back and forth and queries, "Will he uh...will he become addicted to this stuff?"
Ralf giggles and kicks his legs. His face is all rosy and he seems a little better now.
"Not as far as I'm aware. In fact, the more blood he consumes, the better his recovery. However, I will caution you against giving him too much at once."
Sammie nods and asks, "So, um, can you please teach me how to, uh, do the thing, y'know--"
Dr. Collins gives her a sidelong glance, "What thing? You just take off the cap and feed him the blood from the bag. And, please, not yours or Wyatt's. It needs to come from a mortal, understood?"
Sammie gulps deeply and nods, "Maybe--maybe, I'll mix some in with his regular food?"
Dr. Collins shrugs a shoulder, "You could try that. Just be careful. I wouldn't recommend using either to supplement or replace the other. With Dhampirs like him, balance is key."
Sammie and Wyatt thank him for his hospitality and kindness. Sammie carries her child and leaves. Wyatt holds the door open for her and gives little Ralf a little tap on the nose with his finger.
Ralf laughs and kicks his legs some more.
Before leaving, Wyatt asks, "You uh...want us to fill out some kind of form for your records or--?"
Dr. Collins shakes his head, "I think we better keep this between us. For all our sakes." His tone reflects a hint of uncertainty.
Wyatt smiles and shakes the Stoker's colder hand, "Well, thanks for everything, Dr. Collins."
Dr. Collins asks, "How's the thing going with his dad? Have you managed to convince him to pay child support?"
The Duskborn lawyer winces and sucks some air through his teeth, "Gordon Pym is the kinda guy who knows every loophole that exists. If 1 doesn't exist, he'll make it outta thin air. He's...not exactly easy to talk to and negotiate with."
"So, he IS aware of his son's existence?"
"More like in denial- he denies ever meeting my sister and knocking her up. Pfft."
Dr. Collins lowers his head, "I'm sorry to hear that, Wyatt. Don't worry, if there's anything, come by the clinic at anytime, alright?"
Wyatt shakily smiles and meets his sister in the reception area. Wesley offers Ralf a juicy, red lollipop. Ralf asks for 1 more, which Wes gladly gives the kid, "Here ya go, kid."
"Enjoy!" Wes ruffles the Dhampir's hair around.
Ralf grins and beams with excitement. He shows his mom the 2 lollipops he's received and says, "Mommy, mommy! Look, lowipops!"
Sammie smiles, but there's so much pain written all over her pale face- being a hard-working single mom and a Mercurian is no trivial feat for any person.
The Thin-Bloods leave the clinic and head home. Dr. Collins has had enough excitement for tonight and decides to head to Elysium.
"Hey, doc, you uh...gonna be alright?" Wes calls out.
The good doctor nods and heads for the door, "Yes."
"Doc?"
"What is it?"
"How come you didn't ask those people to fill out any proper forms or make an appointment? I know you can be pretty...strict about that."
Dr. Collins twitches for a moment, "Just...I have my reasons, kid. They're uh...having a pretty rough time right now."
Wesley's expression softens. Being from a poor and disadvantaged family himself, he knows what that's like, "Oh, OK. Y--Yeah, yeah, I totally get it, doc. Totally. You're--you're a good guy, doc, always looking out for people."
Dr. Collins plainly responds, "Well, someone's gotta do it, kid. This city is harsh and unforgiving to people like that. If I have a chance to ameliorate even a fraction of it, then I'm taking it."
The receptionist cracks a smile and arranges a few things on his desk. He then remembers something, "Oh, before you leave, that um...Oxy sales guy came here again, looking for you."
Dr. Collins groans, "What did he want now?"
Wes narrows an eye and grimaces, "He offered me a trip to Cancun, some more crappy scroll pens, and a...new computer."
"My god, these people. What did you say?"
Wes sighs, "I mean, a new computer does sound nice, doc. We've had this since 1999."
Dr. Collins puts on his coat, "I'll look into it, Wes. Not right now, but I'll look into it. Anything else?"
Wesley cracks a wider smile, "Aww, thanks, doc. Nope, nothing else for tonight, unless you're expecting someone else to come bursting in, heh."
Brock pushes the clinic's front door open and greets Wesley, "Hey, Wes. Hey, doc, what's up?" The Ghoul looks tired and there are dark circles under his eyes. He smells of coffee, but his clothes are quite impeccable.
He's dressed in a shirt with colorful geometric patterns, beige trousers, and brown moccasins. His mullet is neatly combed and his sunglasses are shiny. He's got a folder of papers in his hand. He also has a black satchel bag slung over his shoulder.
Wes snickers, "What was it, 70s night at the bar?" he points to Brock's shirt. The Ghoul playfully punches him on the shoulder. The receptionist pretends to fall back in pain. Dr. Collins rolls his eyes and chuckles.
The Domitor asks his Ghoul, "Brock, going somewhere?"
Brock shifts around and looks a little evasive. He hesitates before simply answering, "Yeah, a date."
Dr. Collins smiles and nods, "Good, good."
Wes queries, "Who's the lucky guy?"
Dr. Collins narrows his eyes, "You...knew about Brock??"
Wes plainly shrugs and stumbles upon the rest of his words, "Yeah, I did. Why? Oh shit, Brock, dude, I didn't know that you didn't tell--"
Brock holds up his hand, "It's alright, Wes. I told the doc here a few nights back and he...took it well, which honestly, kinda surprised me, heh."
Wesley smiles and goes back to work. Dr. Collins nods approvingly and tells Brock, "We have something to take care of tonight."
The Tzimisce Ghoul gets the hint and nods, "Ah, yeah, yeah. C'mon, then." He ushers his Domitor outside and they both prepare to get into the latter's car.
Brock remarks, "Oh, the goofy Honda, huh?"
Dr. Collins eyes his Ghoul, "What's wrong with it?"
Brock winces and partially grimaces, "Eh, it looks...like something outta a b-movie. Ever thought of swapping it for something less...goofy?" He chuckles and adds, "No offense, doc."
Dr. Collins shoots him a quick glare and answers, "None taken. I've had this car since 1995. And with the recent...expenses, a new car isn't really something I can think about right now."
Brock winces even more, "Ugh, yeah, that. That's nothing but extortion, doc--"
"I'd like to think it's much more than that, darling," a woman's smooth voice cuts through the air. It's none other than Sheriff Velma. She's leaning against her own vehicle and has her arms crossed.
Brock is startled and almost yelps, "Holy shit!" He clutches his chest and breathes heavily. The Sheriff looks amused.
Dr. Collins is unfazed. He simply asks, "Can we help you, Sheriff?"
Sheriff Velma approaches the 2 men and leans in closer to the Tzimisce, "I'm here for my check up, Doctor Collins."
The doctor tells her, "You're late."
The Ventrue Sheriff lazily waves her hand, "You know how traffic is in this city. No one from Flimont is known for their...punctuality, which is such a shame because I remember a time when cars didn't rule the roads." She smirks and takes off her gloves.
Brock raises an eyebrow, "Uh, what?" He looks at Dr. Collins, who simply shrugs.
Sheriff Velma ignores Brock and continues, "Anyways, I'm here now, so let's get on, shall we? And let's not forget that little background check I have to perform on you. Same goes to you, Ghoul."
Brock frowns, "What background check? What the hell is she talking about, doc?" He gets a little nervous and starts fidgeting with his hands.
Dr. Collins reassures him, "It's just a routine background check, Brock. Nothing to worry about."
The Sheriff adds, "Oh, I wouldn't say that, Dr. Collins. I'll be thorough, but I'll need at least 1 person who can vouch for you. Any candidates, mmm?"
Dr. Collins answers, "Dr. Sarah. She's a dentist and of the same Clan- she can vouch for me."
The Sheriff's eyes turn to Brock, the intensity of her gaze makes him squirm. She asks, "And you, darling? Anybody who can vouch for you?" her voice is smooth and velvety, but there's a certain sharpness to it.
Brock hastily answers, "Yeah, Dr. Collins. He's been my Domitor for the last 7 years, that HAS to count for something, right?"
Sheriff Velma stifles a sigh and her expression dullens, "It'll do. You're a Ghoul, anyway, so it shouldn't be too difficult to find out more about you." She then turns to Dr. Collins and says, "Now, if you don't mind, I'd like to get on with my check up."
The Stoker ushers her inside his clinic and into his office, "Right this way."
On the way in, she stops and gives the young receptionist a once-over. He nervously looks up and smiles at her, waving awkwardly, "Hi. You here to see the doc?"
Sheriff Velma softly chuckles, shakes her head, and follows Dr. Collins inside. Brock stands outside and waits for his Domitor to finish up. He checks his phone and sees that he has a message from his date.
This was a time before the advent of smartphones and selfies, so it's just a simple text message that reads: "Still on for tonight, handsome?"
Brock texts back: "Of course. I might be delayed a bit, is that OK?"
The reply comes quickly: "Sure is, just as long you don't keep me waiting forever. I can only stay hard for so long, y'know?"
Brock smirks and replies: "Haha, I'll be there soon, promise." He puts his phone away and waits for Dr. Collins to finish up.
In the doctor's office, the Blue Blood Sheriff takes a seat across from the doctor and elegantly folds 1 leg over the other. She crosses her arms and raises her chin, "So, where do we begin?"
Dr. Collins clears his throat and says, "Well, is there anything troubling you?"
"No."
"Nothing? Nothing at all? A pain in a part of the body that doesn't seem to heal on its own, a strange and almost tight feeling in or around your chest, an ache in your lower back?" he presses.
Sheriff Velma shakes her head, "No, no, and no. I'm perfectly fine, thank you very much."
"What about blood? Is it safe to say that you get your um...nightly intake?"
"Mm-hmm."
Dr. Collins queries, "How fast do your wounds mend themselves?"
"I haven't gotten into a major scuffle in decades, darling. But, my wounds do mend themselves fairly quickly."
"What was your last scuffle, anyways?"
Sheriff Velma smirks, but the menace is apparent, "A few Thin-Bloods thought they were welcome in this Domain. Needless to say, I do not suffer the Weaklings to live."
Yikes.
Dr. Collins is taken aback by her cold and icy tone. He doesn't show it, though, "Hmm, I see. And what's with your whole Cheshire cat routine? Do you often surprise people and butt in on conversations?"
The Ventrue Sheriff's face tics and her lips curl up, but only for a moment. She quickly regains her composure and replies, "It's a useful tactic to keep the riffraff on their toes, Dr. Collins. And besides, I enjoy seeing people squirm."
Dr. Collins raises his eyebrows at that statement, "Hmm, I see. And do you feel in touch with your Humanity or is your Beast being given more leeway than you care to admit?"
Sheriff Velma lifts her chin, eyes narrowed in defiance, "My Beast is well under control, Dr. Collins. It's the Beast of everyone else in the Domain that concerns me."
Dr. Collins straightens up, "Is that why you're so keen on doing background checks on everyone?"
"It's 1 of my reasons, yes. Besides, your position as Primogen for the Tzimisce Clan is only temporary...until Galeb is found. Prince Antonio is confident that he'll turn up soon."
Dr. Collins doesn't bother offering any response to that. He continues with inquiring about her overall psycho-physiological state, "Do you have any Childer?"
"No."
"None at all?"
"No."
"Any plans on having any?"
"Maybe."
Dr. Collins then asks, "What Generation are you, anyway?"
The Sheriff shrugs, "I don't know because counting Generations is the most confusing things for us Kindred to do. I get the gist of it, but it gets so horribly confusing when...Diablerie is thrown into the mix, hmm?"
Dr. Collins presses on, "Have you ever Diablerized anyone, Sheriff Velma?" His tone is direct and pointed. His eyes are cold and emotionless.
The Sheriff takes a long and hard look at Dr. Collins, "No, I have not because that is something that the Camarilla frowns on."
"Not always."
"Hmph, your opinions and 'witty' observations regarding the Ivory Tower are best kept to yourself, do I make myself clear, Flesh-Shaper?"
"Crystal."
Sheriff Velma shrugs off her trench coat and sits up straighter, her chest subtly emphasized. Dr. Collins glances briefly, his expression unreadable.
"My eyes are up here, doc."
Dr. Collins's eyes lurch over to the Sheriff's arms and he spends some time fixated on them. His mouth moves, but no words seem to come out.
Sheriff Velma smirks and puts her hands on her lap and leans closer, "It's impolite to stare, doc."
Dr. Collins snaps out of his trance and shakes his head quickly, "Sorry, sorry. It was...never mind."
Sheriff Velma clicks her tongue, "Ah, ah, ah. It didn't look like nothing to me. I know the Tzimisce Clan Compulsion all too well, darling. Is there something you see that you like? And please, don't even think about lying to me."
Dr. Collins's eyes dart back to her arms. He looks uncomfortable, "No. Th--There is nothing that I find to be appealing, Sheriff."
The Sheriff scoffs, "Hmph, is that right?" She stands up and places both her palms on the doctor's desk.
Dr. Collins gets an even better look at her arms. So long, so elegant, not many blemishes in sight. Her muscles are lean and firm, "Hmm, yes. Yes, yes it is right."
The Ventrue Sheriff softly smirks, "Mmm, it certainly is, isn't it? Now tell me what 'it' is?"
The Stoker reaches out and strokes her arms, gently and with great care. His mouth is agape and his eyes are glued to her limbs, "It's so...beautiful, so perfect. And...they look so st--strong."
"Mmm-hmm." She leans even closer and whispers, "Yes, I'm sure they are."
Dr. Collins stands up and yanks the Sheriff's arm closer to him. He obsessively and almost feverishly caresses and inspects it with his hands. His eyes are wide and unblinking. His hands move in quick, frenetic motions, but he remains quiet and focused on his work.
Sheriff Velma wrestles her arm away from the doctor and glowers at him, "My, my, my. Aren't you full of surprises, huh? So what is with you and people's arms? Or is there something that you saw? A lump, a growth, perhaps?" she quickly puts her coat back on.
He slinks back and puts a hand on his head, somewhat embarrassed. He admits, "You're right. It's a part of my Clan's Compulsion, our...Covetousness. I--I have a thing for arms."
Sheriff Velma is amused by this admission, "What kind of a 'thing'? A sex thing?" her voice is smooth, low, and somewhat seductive.
"No."
"Do you have a fetish?"
"No, not at all like that."
"Then what is it?"
Dr. Collins gulps, sighs deeply, and takes a few moments to respond, "I--I have this overbearing obsession, this--this desire to add 2 more arms to my body. I remember, distinctly, drawing a picture of a 4-armed person when I was a kid and having it be so...normal for me ever since then."
"Oh? Is that so? And that's how you became so obsessed with arms?"
"It's the only logical answer I can come up with, yes. The idea of having extra appendages intrigues me and has haunted my mind for many years."
"Mm-hmm."
Dr. Collins confesses, his face in his hands and his eyes downcast, "I've thought of it all the time when I was young- in high school, college, even medical school. I'd wonder to myself if it was feasible, like, taking someone else's arms and attaching them to the sides of my body--"
Sheriff Velma points out, "Well, you're Tzimisce, and extensive, dare I say, obscene body modifications are a core part of your Clan's culture. Is this such a surprise to you, doctor?" her tone is even more low.
"..."
The Ventrue Sheriff's eyes are intense, "You do realize what you're doing, right? Not fulfilling your deepest, darkest desires by letting this unusual Compulsion persist could have disastrous consequences."
She reminds the good doctor, "And I don't need any more problems right now. So, are you gonna let that happen? Because you can't put that cat back in the bag, darling. Once something like that is out, it doesn't go back in. EVER."
Dr. Collins grunts, groans, and changes the subject, "Enough, enough. Just...stop. Also, the Tzimisce Clan isn't just about what you mentioned. We're a lot more than that."
"Yes, you certainly are. From what I've been told by other Stokers, yours is the only Clan whose Antediluvian was an--"
Dr. Collins interjects, "An alien, yes. The Eldest, The Ancient, or the many other names for...it. It is not from this world, which explains certain things about our Clan- more positive aspects like our politeness, pleasantness, hospitality, curiosity, and such."
Sheriff Velma claps back, "And despite all these alleged good qualities, your Clan is 1 of the founding Clans of the Sabbat- the same roving maniacs that threaten to tear everything down and drown us all in fire."
Dr. Collins clarifies and emphasizes, "Look, a lot of the Tzimisce in this city are all Old Clan Tzimisce- we predate the formation of the Sabbat and have remained faithful to the Camarilla. I'm Old Clan Tzimisce, too."
"So you say. I just wonder how an alien's blood courses through your veins. I'm sure the history behind that is...fascinating, hmm?"
Dr. Collins nods, "The official account is that the spaceship of our Antediluvian crash-landed in the City of Enoch millennia ago. Anyways, the ship was damaged beyond repair."
Sheriff Velma is intrigued by this, "Oh? Do go on, it's not every night you hear something so...riveting."
Dr. Collins obliges, "So, it couldn't go back to it's home planet or world or wherever it's truly from. The Tzimisce Antediluvian was essentially stranded on our planet. An extraterrestrial being stuck on Earth- a foreign being, a foreign entity, in a foreign land forced to adapt and survive."
"What happened next?"
"This is where things get murky. Most agree that it was either Enoch or Irad who Embraced this strange extraterrestrial being. They tried turning it into a Ghoul at first, but that didn't seem to work."
"So they Embraced it instead?"
"Mm-hmm, yes. A handful of accounts and theories go even further and suggest that our Antediluvian was the first ever Kindred, returning to planet Earth to beget the rest of us and check up on the others or some such."
Sheriff Velma shakes her head from side to side, "My, my, my. That theory does throw a spanner in the works, hmm? Where does that leave Caine, his Childer, the other Antediluvians, et cetera, et cetera?"
Dr. Collins shrugs and sighs, "I study this in my free time. I could spend hours, hell, weeks explaining everything to you."
"Are you implying something?"
"No, no. Of course not. I wouldn't dare do such a thing." There's a small hint of sarcasm there, but it's very well-hidden.
The Ventrue Sheriff doesn't seem to notice it and asks, "And what does all this have to do with your desire for additional arms?"
The Stoker shrugs, "It is what it is, it's the uh...nature of my Blood. I can't help it, I can only resolve it. Why did you ask me about my Clan's history, anyway? I'm sure you have access to people who are far more knowledgeable and informed than me."
The Sheriff chuckles, "Well, Dr. Collins, you're in a unique position as the Tzimisce Primogen for this Domain."
"What do you mean?"
"You didn't earn it, it fell on your lap thanks to Galeb's...disappearance."
Dr. Collins sharply sighs, "I still don't know where he is, alright? But if I find anything, you and Prince Antonio will be my first call."
Sheriff Velma nods, "Good. And how long have you been in this Domain?"
Dr. Collins thinks for a moment, "Since the late 1990s."
"And before that?"
"I had something, a short-lived stint in Magnolia City, but I decided on reestablishing myself as a General Practitioner here in Flimont City."
"Why? Magnolia City is wonderful, isn't it?"
Dr. Collins sort of agrees, "Yeah, compared to a hellhole like Flimont, Magnolia City DOES sound wonderful. Maybe I should've stayed back and..." he trails off and looks into the distance, his eyes lost in thought.
Sheriff Velma snaps him out of it, "You said you reestablished yourself as a General Practitioner?"
Dr. Collins straightens up, "Yes."
"Any issues there? Any troubles with your paperwork? Any problems with your records, both professional and personal?"
"None whatsoever."
Sheriff Velma's eyes narrow and she looks skeptical, "No troubles at all? That's very interesting, very interesting, indeed."
The Stoker raises an eyebrow, "What are you getting at, Sheriff Velma?"
Sheriff Velma doesn't answer. Instead, she sniffs, "And how about this clinic of yours, hmm? The walls look old and cracked, some of the posters seem outdated, the tiles creak every now and then. I notice these things, Dr. Collins."
The Tzimisce doctor clicks his tongue in frustration, "I'm not exactly rolling in money, Sheriff Velma..."
The Sheriff asks, "Is it because of the whole quote-unquote 'extortion' that we're 'forcing' you to pay?"
Dr. Collins claps back, "$10,000 is not exactly chump change. I had to ask a close friend of mine and even get Brock to hit his savings just to come up with the amount. I also had to make some adjustments to my budget."
"How did you even manage to do that, then, hmm?"
"That's not really your concern. Just be glad you're getting your fucking money. What do you even use it for? And why so much?" the doctor takes on a more aggressive tone.
Sheriff Velma remains composed and as cool as the corpse that she is, "Now, now. No need to get all...curt with me, doc. I thought you Tzimisce were the more politic types; after all, that's what you said- 'politeness, pleasantness, hospitality, curiosity', et cetera. So, how's that working out for you?" she smiles, but her eyes are icy cold.
Dr. Collins glowers at her for a moment, then sighs and shrugs, "I'm sorry. It's just...absurd. Did--did Galeb keep up with his payments, because I sure as hell am not interested in any more surprise charges being thrown my way."
Sheriff Velma is amused by that statement, "Oh, darling, please, don't be absurd. Either way, the Prince gets paid. I'm here to make sure he gets it on time is all. Don't shoot the messenger, as they say."
Dr. Collins's face scrunches, "So, wait, what, you don't get a cut of that cash?"
Sheriff Velma snickers, "Pfft, of course not. Even I have a monthly fee I have to keep up- $2500."
The Tzimisce Primogen sharply exhales, "Goddamn! What kind of a racket is Prince Antonio running here!?"
The Ventrue Sheriff holds up her finger and waggles it, "Don't even think of going there. Anyway, what is your relationship with Galeb? Were you 2 close?"
Dr. Collins plainly answers, "We were...acquainted, yes, but not necessarily friends. He was our Clan's Primogen for as long as I can remember. Why?"
Sheriff Velma presses on, "What did you last speak about before Galeb's disappearance? Was it about gray aliens? Maybe motherships and the little green men inside, hmm?" there's a hint of amusement that laces her words.
Dr. Collins sighs deeply and shakes his head, "No, we didn't talk about that. We mostly discussed Kindred matters, y'know, keeping up with the times, so to speak."
The Sheriff nods and asks, "How often did you 2 talk?"
"We'd usually meet up every now and then to discuss Clan-related issues and the like. He came in here for a check up. It was nothing, really."
Sheriff Velma thoughtfully nods, "I see. And what might've ailed an Elder like him, hmm?"
Dr. Collins purses his lips and weighs his words carefully, "That's doctor-patient confidentiality. I'm not breaking it. Ever."
Sheriff Velma faintly chuckles, "Very well. You do realize that I WILL be cross-referencing and triple-checking everything you're telling me here tonight, yes?"
Dr. Collins equably tells her, "Knock yourself out. I've got nothing to hide."
Sheriff Velma shakes her head slowly, "I'll be the judge of that."
Dr. Collins takes a risk by asking, "And, hypothetically speaking, if I was hiding something...what then, hmm?"
Sheriff Velma intensely eyes him, her gaze piercing into his very being, "Do you really wanna go down that path, doctor? Why, is there something you're hiding, something that you know, that you should be telling me? Because I WILL find out. I ALWAYS do."
The good doctor presses his lips together and raises his hands in mock-surrender, "No, no, nothing at all. I'm an open book and I get along really well with the other Tzimisce here. There's no need to...aggravate the situation any further. Galeb's disappearance has got us all on edge."
The Ventrue Sheriff concurs, "Very much so. Prince Antonio is determined to find Galeb, as am I. You believe Galeb was, what, Beckoned off?"
"It's the most logical inference to make. He was an Elder and Elders all over the world are succumbing to its call."
"And what are the other possibilities?"
"Not exactly pleasant ones, I'd imagine."
The Sheriff steeples her fingers together and keeps her eyes locked on the doctor, "How unpleasant, hmm?"
Dr. Collins shifts under the weight of her dark gaze, "It depends. It could be anything from him getting Diablerized to an old sin from his past finally catching up with him."
The Sheriff lifts her chin, "'An old sin,' hmm? Are you...religious, doc?"
The Flesh-Shaper replies, "I'm a Presbyterian, but I am also a man of science and reason. For me, religion has and will always be a personal matter, separate from other spheres of life and Unlife- be it politics, medicine, science, and education."
Sheriff Velma lightly smiles, "Interesting. You're an interesting man, Collins."
Dr. Collins tells her, firmly but gently, "I'd prefer Dr. Collins. It's only fair to show someone the respect they're due- it isn't much to ask, honestly."
Sheriff Velma keeps calm, "Indeed. But, who knows, hmm? There might be big asks in the future. As a Primogen for the Tzimisce Clan, are you prepared to answer them? Galeb certainly was, and he wasn't squeamish about any of it."
Dr. Collins sternly responds, "I'm not Galeb. But, I will still represent the best interests of my Clan going forward...or for however long this position as Primogen lasts."
"Don't get too comfy, darling. I'll find him, sooner or later, I'll find him." If anything, the Sheriff is far too overconfident in her abilities and it's showing.
Dr. Collins easily picks up on this, "Don't get too Arrogant, Ms. DuPont. I know the Ventrue Clan Compulsion all too well. I know what that kind of stiff-necked Arrogance can lead to."
The Blue Blood grits her teeth a little, "It's Sheriff Velma to you, Stoker. And please don't patronize me; I know what I am."
(Looks like he kinda struck a nerve there, eh?)
Dr. Collins shrugs a shoulder, "Is there anything else, Sheriff Velma?"
The question lingers in the air for a while as the Sheriff regards the good doctor, her steely gaze still focused on him. She finally tells him, "Tell me about your Ghoul, Brock."
Dr. Collins leans forward, "What do you wanna know about him?"
Sheriff Velma sniffs and takes a look around, "Any skeletons in his closet that I should be aware of?"
Dr. Collins firmly answers, "No."
The Ventrue Sheriff faintly chuckles, "Now I know there's something you're not telling me. C'mon, tell me. We can work through it together." Her tone is very low.
The Stoker doesn't buckle or fold, he stands firm and stares the Sheriff right in her eyes, "It's, quite frankly, none of your business."
Sheriff Velma claps back, "If it happens within the borders of Flimont City, then it IS my business."
Dr. Collins sighs in frustration, "Can--can you keep a secret? I don't want too many people finding out."
The Sheriff lazily waves her hand and motions for the Tzimisce doctor to go on.
Dr. Collins says it plainly, "Brock's gay. He came out to me a few nights back and it's a recent discovery, really. I--I wasn't ready to find out, but I was more than happy to help and support him." His voice is steady and firm.
Sheriff Velma shrugs a shoulder and comments, "That's hardly a dirty secret, darling." Her tone is cool and detached, her expression is blank and devoid of any emotion.
She blandly goes on, "It existed in my time, too. Albeit, suppressed and...not openly talked about as it is now. Oh, well. But, are you sure he hasn't had any other secrets he'd rather not tell you about, hmm?"
"I trust Brock with my Unlife. He's done well by me for the past 7 years and I see no reason to mistrust or doubt him." There's an undercurrent of strength in the good doctor's words, one that makes it hard to challenge them.
Sheriff Velma sniffs and mulls over her next question, "What about Dr. Sarah?" she gives Dr. Collins a long hard look, her eyes slightly narrowed.
"I've known her ever since I came to this city. Even though our fields are different- she's a dentist- we get along very well and consider each other good friends. We help each other out whenever the other's in need."
Sheriff Velma perches an eyebrow, "And, she'd be able to vouch for whatever it is you're saying, hmm?"
"Of course. And I'll be able to vouch for whatever she's saying." His tone is still very firm.
Sheriff Velma mulls over it and nods approvingly, "Hmm. Mm-hmm, mm-hmm. I'm very happy you've been so...helpful, so far, Dr. Collins. Sometimes it's nice to just sit back and have a nice conversation, don't you agree?"
"It has its perks."
The Sheriff proceeds to remind him, "Now that you're a Primogen, however long that lasts, you're obligated to take part in a Blood Hunt."
The doctor straightens up and cocks his head, "Who's it been called for?"
"Mm-hmm," the Ventrue Sheriff hums, "Every single Thin-Blood in this Domain. If you see any or know where any are, then--"
She gets up and takes a scalpel in her hand. She twirls it around in a menacing, yet elegant, sort of way, "--you're obligated to do your part and kill them."
This doesn't bode too well, considering that 2 Thin-Bloods (and a little Dhampir) were just here and Dr. Collins didn't turn them in, "I see." His expression is unreadable. It's completely blank, just like Sheriff Velma's face.
He says, "Thank you, Sheriff Velma. I'll--I'll keep my eyes open." It comes off as a bit cold. It's probably on purpose. The Sheriff notices but doesn't comment on it.
She puts the scalpel away and looks down at the doctor, "I won't rest until every last 1 of them have been killed. No exiles, no negotiations, no trials. No. Fucking. Mercy." The last few words come out in a harsh whisper, the sound of something akin to a low growl is heard.
After that, the doctor asks her a few questions of a medical nature, and she answers as best as she can.
The Sheriff, in turn, prods further into the doctor's background, and he does his best to answer her queries in a satisfactory manner (or whatever she deems "satisfactory" enough).
Once all has been said, she walks away and turns around to tell Dr. Collins, "Thank you for your cooperation, doctor. I'll see you at Elysium. Better get moving- traffic in this city is...awful."
"Ta-ta," she twirls her fingers and saunters away. A faint smirk appears on her pale face, and her head is held high. Her movements are brisk, efficient, and deliberate. She ignores the 2 guys in the reception area and doesn't bother to look back at all.
Dr. Collins follows and watches as the Sheriff gets into her car and speeds away.
Brock, who'd been outside waiting, finally sighs in relief.
Wes asks, "Uh...she uh...didn't fill out anything, doc."
The Ghoul snickers while Wes remains puzzled.
Doctor Collins shakes his head, "It's alright, kid. She's...an old friend of mine."
"I see. You have some really interesting friends, huh, doc?"
"Mm-hmm. Keep up the good work, kid. I'm heading out now. Me and Brock have some...things to take care of."
Brock springs up and waits outside, near his Domitor's car.
The young receptionist salutes the doctor and smiles. The Tzimisce Primogen nods and gets into his car. Brock slides into the passenger seat and puts on his seatbelt, "Yep! Buckled-in to the sci-fi mobile, heh."
Dr. Collins starts his car up, the engine purrs and comes to life with a loud growl. The car begins to roll out onto the busy streets and the duo is off to Elysium.
The Stoker tells his Ghoul, "Well, that went well."
The Ghoul looks at him in disbelief, "What??"
"I was half-expecting her to ask me tougher questions, but, it was pretty milquetoast all things considered."
"Huh. Did--did she ask about me? I'm really too big on someone prodding into my personal life...not that I got anything to hide...well expect the y'know..."
Dr. Collins keeps his hands on the steering wheel, foot on the accelerator, and eyes on the road, "It's alright, I told her--"
Brock gasps quickly cuts in, "YOU DID WHAT?!"
Dr. Collins almost loses grip of the steering wheel, but quickly recovers and calmly tells Brock, "I told her."
"What the FUCK, doc?! Why did you do that?!"
"Well, you told me, didn't you?"
"Yeah, I did! But...it's not like you're...required to do anything about it or...y'know..."
Dr. Collins calmly interjects, "It's alright, it's alright. She's not going to do anything about it. She can't. There's nothing wrong with being gay."
Brock sighs and looks at the city moving by in a blur, "It's--it's just that I'm not exactly ready to come out to everyone else, y'know. Especially to a...Sheriff. I mean, what if she's against it or some shit?"
The doctor gives him a look that's meant to be reassuring and firm, "Then, that's her problem, not yours."
Brock takes a deep breath and slowly lets it out, "I hope so, doc. I hope so."
The duo keep their silence as Dr. Collins maneuvers through the heavy traffic of the city. Cars to the left of them, cars to the right of them. Cars in the front and cars in the back.
It chugs along at the pace of an injured snail. Go forward a few feet, stop, wait, honk like a maniac, and go forward another few feet.
The Tzimisce doctor asks Brock, "You ready to see Elysium?"
Brock shrugs, indifferent, "I guess so. Where's it, anyway?"
"From what Galeb told me, it's an old music hall that Prince Antonio bought at some kind of state auction."
"Wow."
"Hmm. I've been there once, a few years back. It's clearly seen better days...and nights."
"Huh, interesting." The Ghoul places his chin on his palm and stares outside, looking at all the buildings, the lights, and all the people going on their own personal, yet mundane, lives.
He sees a wall covered in graffiti, much of it is fairly banal. He also sees a small group of teens congregating, but not much else.
The Ghoul then decides to break the silence, "So...what do you think happened to Galeb, doc? Like, do you think he was..." he trails off and lets that sentence linger for a bit.
Dr. Collins sighs and purses his lips together before answering, "I--I honestly don't know, Brock. I just wish everyone would stop asking me about him."
Brock chuckles, "I hear ya, doc. He was kind of an asshole, to be honest. I always felt...icky around him." He shudders and grimaces when he recalls the few interactions he's had with the Elder Tzimisce.
Dr. Collins sighs, shakes his head, and doesn't say anything else.
After a long while, they finally make it to Elysium, which is in a part of the city that's more dilapidated and rundown than usual. Dumpsters are overflowing with uncollected garbage. The roads are cracked and there appears to be a fog that hangs over everything.
Brock lets out a low whistle as he sees the old music hall. It looks like a relic of the past, the kind that once used to draw people in from miles and miles away.
Now, it is nothing but a tragic husk of its former self.
There are people hanging out here and there, but not many. Dr. Collins parks in front of Elysium and the duo get out. They take a moment to appreciate the exterior.
The old, rusted sign above the doorway, the boarded-up windows, the weeds and ivy that's starting to take over the front of the place, the chipped and flecked paint, and the way everything feels like a time long, long gone.
They head inside, through the entrance, and up a narrow flight of stairs. Brock asks, "Why does a guy with this much cash invest in such a place and do absolutely nothing about it?"
Dr. Collins replies, "I really don't know, Brock."
The Ghoul smirks and shrugs, "Heh, fair enough."
Prince Antonio is all the way at the far end of the room, talking to someone else. The Prince occupies a large armchair with intricate carvings and adornments. He looks like he owns the place and no one has the guts to tell him otherwise.
His demeanor is that of a man used to getting what he wants when he wants it. He looks over and waves to the Kindred and the Ghoul, beckoning them over to his seat.
Dr. Collins strides over with confidence while Brock trails behind.
The Ventrue Prince gets up from his "throne" and jumps down from the stage with cat-like agility, "Ah! Dr. Collins! Brock!" he extends his hand, his eyes glittering.
He tells them, "Welcome to Elysium- a safe space for all of us. So, please, enjoy yourselves here."
Brock looks around and remarks, "Jeez, what a place, man. You uh...ever thought of doing some TLC?"
The Prince scoffs, "The fuck for? It's fine as is. I might flip this place in the future, y'know, break it all down and get some developers over to build something better in its stead."
The Ghoul keeps his hands in his pockets, "That...sucks. I--I mean, with the right renovations, you could have this place looking good again. I've always wanted to go to a nice, sorta laid-back concert." He sounds wistful and hopeful.
Prince Antonio looks at him incredulously, "A concert? For what? Fat broads howling?" He starts laughing uproariously while Brock scowls.
The Ghoul is not smiling. His expression is very deadpan and cold.
Dr. Collins greets the other guy seated in 1 of the many seats in this dilapidated hall. The cobwebs, dust, and grime cover everything and anything in sight. The stench is bad, a smell of rot and decay mixed with stale, moldy, and dirty air.
Brock takes a whiff and covers his nose, "Augh. Fuck! Disgusting."
Dr. Collins and the Pedro shake hands. The Gangrel Primogen is dressed in a collared t-shirt, baggy pants, and sandals. He's got his knock-off sunglasses perched on top of his forehead.
"Yo, what's good, hermano? Glad you could make it!"
"Oh, yes. Thank you, Pedro." Dr. Collins searches for a seat that isn't covered in dust, broken, or looks like it might collapse if anyone sat down on it.
He mutters to himself, "Goddamn."
Pedro replies, "Yo, dude. Relax, just take in the sights, just...take in the sights." He doesn't sound convinced when saying that.
Prince Antonio takes Brock to a minibar that has been set up in what was once the backstage area. He does a wide, sweeping gesture to the many drinks on offer.
"We got ourselves some Chianti over here, some white wine over there, y'know, a little lagniappe, a little...something extra for all you Ghouls."
With his arm still around Brock's shoulder, Prince Antonio leans closer, "Well, go on, kid. Pick your poison." He hands the Ghoul a bottle.
Brock's face turns sour as he regards the Prince with a cold expression, "And what if I don't drink?" His voice is very dry.
The Ventrue Prince lets out an irritated grunt, "Well, what can I say? I try to be nice, I try to be kind to people, and they--they fucking laugh at me. But, you ain't like that, right, kid?"
Brock gulps deeply and stammers, "I--I barely know you, man."
The Ventrue Prince tisks, "Tsk. Hey, bartender! Get my good friend here whatever he fuckin' wants, capeesh?"
The dull-eyed bartender nods her head. She looks so dazed and out of it. Prince Antonio sighs, "Oh, yeah. This bitch has been acting all weird- she just sits there, moping and doing absolutely fucking nothing, just like the rest of these bums. Until I put her in her place."
Brock nods slowly. He sits on a bar stool and puts his head in his hands, "Oh, my god...what the fuck kind of crazy have I gotten myself into?"
The bartender lady is in her early-20s. She has shaggy hair and baggy blue eyes. She looks very malnourished and there seem to be bite marks and scratches all over her. Brock's eyes widen as he sees it all.
He mutters, "Fuck, fuck, fuck..." as he sinks lower in his stool. He stares at his feet, eyes downcast.
He thinks about running, running fast, running far, and never, ever coming back here. Then again, he is (more or less) bound to Dr. Collins and should thank his lucky stars that the good doctor is not a monster.
Prince Antonio snaps him out of his stupor and asks him, "What? Something the matter? You look like you saw a ghost." His tone is mocking, derisive, and very nasty.
The Ventrue Prince lifts Brock's chin up, "Don't go lookin' at the ground like there's diamonds there. Go on, take a risk, enjoy a lil booze, it's all on the house."
Brock wishes Dr. Collins were here to talk him out of this mess.
Meanwhile, Dr. Collins and Pedro sit together and talk about stuff.
The good doctor tells him, "And you should see her arms. They're like...goddamn."
"Haha! Yeah, she looks pretty fine, amigo. If she wasn't totally loco, I'd probably go for it, y'know. That's me." The Gangrel Primogen cracks himself up with that last line.
Dr. Collins says, "Well, she does have her charm...that's that, I guess."
Pedro remarks, "Mm-hmm. She's a combination of grace and beauty with cunning and relentlessness thrown in. She's like the type of chica to patiently wait for the perfect moment to lunge out and strike without mercy, like a cat."
Dr. Collins agrees with this, "That...is an apt comparison, Pedro."
Pedro tells him, "Haha. Oh, shit. You uh...got the cash for the, you know?"
Dr. Collins hates being reminded about that, "Hmph. Right here. How do you even manage? It's--"
He looks around to make sure no one's nearby before saying, "--Criminal. Absolutely fucking criminal." His expression is severe, but also kind of disgusted.
Pedro is as nonplussed as ever and doesn't take offense, "Well, yeah. What's your point, ese?" he chuckles at the good doctor's obvious discomfort.
Dr. Collins gets a good look at the Feral before speaking, "Seriousuly, how do you manage to keep up these payments?"
Pedro shrugs and coolly says, "I got my ways, homes. I'm not gonna pretend it's easy for me to cough up 5 grand a month, but we Cholos gotta do what we gotta do to survive, you feel me?"
"Mm-hmm. I just hope the Prince has a change of heart."
"Fat chance, ese. He'd sooner walk out into the sun than admit to any sorta wrongdoing on his part."
"He doesn't have any guilt or shame, huh?"
"Nah, bro, that dude's all business, 100%."
The Stoker inquires, "What about Sheriff Velma? Do you 2 get along?"
"We get along alright. She respects Gangrel territory and, in turn, we don't feed on none of their...special vessels, you know, the uh..." Pedro vaguely motions with his hand.
Dr. Collins's nods plainly, "Their Rarefied Tastes."
"Yeah, bro."
"That's...good to know."
"Yeah. So, how's the clinic doing, doc?"
"All well."
Back at the minibar area, Brock is still under a lot of pressure to drink. He gulps again.
The Prince has him in a sort of half-hug and pats his shoulder, "C'mon, kid, don't be shy, it ain't gonna hurt, I promise."
"I'm...not really much of a drinker, man." His tone is flat and he tries his damnedest to squirm out of the Prince's hold.
"What the fuck kinda Ghoul ain't a drinker, huh? I don't know of any that have a drinking problem. I mean, it ain't gonna hurt or nothin', kid, what're you so afraid of?" his tone is smooth, almost sweet.
Brock isn't sure how to get out of this mess, "I--I just don't wanna do it. I got...a--a date tonight."
The Prince snickers, "Well, ain't you a stud. What's her name?"
Oof.
Brock gulps and winces. He feels a tightness in his chest, a sick feeling in the pit of his stomach. He shivers a little and hopes this feeling will just go away.
He makes up a name, "Uh...Alice." At the moment, he's not too comfortable about telling the Prince that he's gay.
The Prince keeps pestering, "So, what's she like, huh? She got a good rack, this Alice? A nice ass?"
Brock hesitates, "Uh..."
"Come on, kid. Tell me a little bit about her?" the Prince keeps pushing.
Brock takes a deep breath and blurts out, "She's tall, has long black hair, and uh...she's into classic movies and owns 2 pets."
The Prince narrows his eyes, suspicious, "Hmm, is that so?"
Brock shakily nods and looks at the bartender who's just standing there, completely still. She looks at the ground with almost lifeless eyes.
The Ventrue Prince notices Brock looking at her, "Yeah, she ain't sayin' shit, kid. Don't even bother."
The Ghoul nods again and tries to look away, but it's no use.
The Prince remarks, "She does look kinda hot, though, huh? Whaddya think, me and you going at her, huh? You take the mouth and I take the ass, huh?"
A hitched breath escapes Brock as he feels something bile-like rising up in his throat.
Prince Antonio continues, "What? Too much for ya? Pfft, come on, man, we could go right now and fuck her in 1 of the changing rooms, if you want. The others ain't gonna be here for another few minutes."
Brock finally blurts out, "I'M GAY!" His expression is frantic and there's sweat trickling down his brow. He shoves the Prince off him and storms off to where the good doctor is seated. He slams himself next to Dr. Collins. The impact jars the creaky seat, it groans under his weight, but holds.
Dr. Collins looks concerned and asks, "Brock? What's the matter?"
Brock is red with anger, "The Prince wanted to fuck the bartender lady! I--I told him I wasn't interested, but that son of a bitch won't take 'no' for an answer!"
Pedro's eyebrows shoot up and he mutters something in Spanish.
Dr. Collins sees the Ventrue Prince approaching. The Stoker motions for his Ghoul to take deep breaths and calm himself down, "It's alright, Brock." His tone is soft and calm. It seems to work, Brock slowly starts to calm himself down and is able to breathe more regularly.
Prince Antonio spreads out his hands and screams out, "So, you're a faggot, huh?"
Brock groans and shuts his eyes, he looks down in embarrassment as Dr. Collins glares at the Ventrue Prince with barely concealed hostility.
Pedro mutters something indeterminable while Dr. Collins gets up and walks to Prince Antonio's personal space. They stare at each other, their expressions unreadable. A tense silence hangs in the air.
Prince Antonio lifts his chin, defiant. He tugs on the sleeves of his gray suit jacket and adjusts the collar of his black shirt. His black leather belt and dark shoes glisten under the dim lights of the hall.
He tilts his head to 1 side and asks, "What, are you a faggot too? You like taking it from the back, too?"
Dr. Collins remains steadfast, "No. There's nothing wrong with being gay, Antonio." His tone is cold, it's almost biting. His jaw is set in a grim, determined line. He takes a few deep breaths and exhales slowly.
The Ventrue Prince bursts out into laughter, "Hahahaha! Oh, you fucking people. I'm Prince Antonio Black. Nobody fucks with me. Sit back down, Collins. As for your Ghoul, keep him the hell away from me!" There's a dangerous undertone to his voice. It's a warning that's hard to miss.
Brock hollers out, "Done! And fuck you--"
Dr. Collins holds up his finger and warns his retainer, "Brock, watch it..."
With unmistakable reluctance, Dr. Collins sighs and says, "Prince Antonio is our Prince and he is...owed respect, so...as much as I hate to admit it, Brock...apologize." He makes eye-contact with the Ventrue Prince, there's a hint of resentment, but there's also an unspoken understanding between them.
Brock grunts and half-heartedly says, "I'm sooo sorry for being the way I am."
Dr. Collins shoots his Ghoul a pained look, "Brock..."
Pedro scoots over and rubs the distressed Ghoul on his back, "Hey, hey, easy. Vatos loving vatos is as old as time itself. Ain't nothing to be ashamed of. But, there's a hierarchy in Kindred Society and um...y'know."
Brock nods and gulps again, he tries to fight the tears welling up in his eyes, but it's hard to keep them back, "Yeah, yeah. I--I get it. But...can't the Prince at least keep the creepiness down to a fucking minimum, hmm?"
Prince Antonio clicks his tongue and tuts, "Hey, fairy boy! I'm still waiting for my fuckin' apology...from YOU."
Brock stands up, shakes his head and forces the words out, "I'm sorry for...acting like an asshole."
Prince Antonio wears a smug expression and smirks, "That's more like it. I was being nice to you. I offered you free drinks, free pussy, free fucking everything."
Dr. Collins steps in, "I think he's got the point, Prince Antonio. It...won't happen again."
Brock mumbles, "Yeah, it fucking won't." He pushes past his Domitor and walks out of the building. On the way out, he grazes past Sheriff Velma and Markham who have just walked in.
Sheriff Velma's expression is as deadpan as always while Markham's expression is something like "Oh, boy. What the hell did I walk into?" He's very good at masking it, however, and goes along with Sheriff Velma.
The Baali was able to do some work. Diego's Haven doesn't exactly have high-speed Internet, so it was just some crappy dial-up that Markham would have to use for most of the evening. It's all he can do for the moment, but he's still pretty satisfied with it.
Beggars can't be choosers.
Prince Antonio welcomes the Baali with open arms. Pedro stands up and angrily asks, "What the hell is this cabrn doing here?!"
Prince Antonio quickly silences the Gangrel Primogen, "Shut the hell up! I don't need you throwing a fuss, too. Hey, Markham, how the hell how doing, huh?"
Markham plainly responds, "I'm fine."
He looks at Pedro and offers, "If he feels uncomfortable with having me around, then I can leave. I don't even know why--"
Prince Antonio butts in, "Shut up. You came because I wanted you here. I'm the Prince and my word is final. Why is it so fuckin' hard for people to respect that, huh? Gah!" his expression is furious and he grits his teeth, his jaw tightens up, he snarls a bit.
Sheriff Velma greets the 2 Primogen, "Pedro. Dr. Collins. Good to see you 2 are early. We're just waiting on a few more, then we can begin. Prince Antonio, is Pierre coming?" her tone is even and measured, it's like she's trying her best to placate the Ventrue Prince's anger by changing the subject.
The Prince lazily waves his hand and ushers Markham to a front-row seat that's caked in dust. Markham grimaces and takes a seat that feels harder but is a lot less dusty than the others. He doesn't comment on any of it.
Prince Antonio clambers back onto the stage and plops down on his "throne." He wiggles his ass around until he's comfortable and lets out a deep breath, "Yeah. Pierre'll be here." His voice is deep and slow, it's a lot more calm than it was just a moment ago.
Dr. Collins goes and sits down next to Pedro again.
Sheriff Velma cracks a subtle smirk and explains, "Pierre is Baali, Markham. We thought it would be best to...bring him in. I've already explained your current predicament and he is quite eager to meet you, if I do say so myself. Hm."
Markham repeats himself, "I'm not here to get involved in any of this political stuff. I'm here to do my job and get the hell out as soon as I can."
The Gangrel Primogen snickers and opines, "Smartest fucking thing this Demon Worshipper pendejo has said. Leave him be. I don't know why you wanna help him when it's clear that he doesn't want it. Pfft."
Prince Antonio sighs and turns his attention to Markham, "You see the shit I have to deal with? So, you find anything on who tried to whack ya, huh?"
"I'm close."
The Prince looks frustrated with the Baali's vague and withdrawn behavior. He angrily clenches his hand, "You better be. C'mon, talk to me. What'd you find so far, huh?"
Markham dryly explains what he's learned so far. He also tells Prince Antonio about his intent to find Roxanne and get to the bottom of this.
Sheriff Velma mumbles to herself, "Ah. I see." She is very pensive about all of this, "You know, if it was anyone else, they'd just...never mind. Yeah, Roxanne has got her fingers on the pulse, so to speak. Good luck finding her, though."
Pedro wolf-whistles, "Oh, that Brujah puta, huh? Haha. Find her, do your thing, then get your Unholy ass out of this city. We don't fuck with that devil worship shit."
Dr. Collins holds his tongue and mulls some things over in his head, but doesn't comment on it.
Markham continues to sit in his seat. He doesn't make eye-contact with any of the Kindred around him, but his eyes occasionally dart here and there.
Prince Antonio asks, "So, where you from, Markham?"
"Greenridge."
The Prince nods, "Ah, a town that's a few miles east of DC, right?"
"Mm-hmm."
The Prince shoots a questioning look at this Sheriff. She, in turn, blandly shrugs and shakes her head.
After a minute or so, Clarice, the Malkavian Primogen, strides in. She carries herself with a sense of pride and confidence. She's dressed in a long green dress, a light shawl, and simple flats.
She takes the time to greet everyone, "Hmph, this place. My friends. Good evening." Her voice is very soothing, calm, and smooth. There's an almost unusual quality to her voice that puts people at ease (or does the opposite, in some cases).
She takes her seat next to Markham and gives him a significant look, "Baali. How are you tonight, darling?"
"Fine."
The Malk keeps her eyes fixated on the Baali for a few more moments. She narrows them and whispers something to herself. Then, she sits back and waits for the others to come in.
Clarice says to Markham, "I see you have come here for a purpose, my dear. But things have taken an unusual turn over the past few nights, yes?"
"Something like that. What's it to you?"
Clarice clicks her tongue, "Come now, I am your friend. As a Malkavian, I see things that elude others."
Markham blandly replies, "Save it for the kiddy party. I know how...crazy and unhinged you Malkavians can be."
Clarice shakes her head in a very gentle manner, "Now, now. Generalizations do no one any good, Markham. I am willing to help, provided you step up and ask." She sounds a lot more distant with the last line.
Markham lifts his chin a little, "What would you possibly know? I once had a Malkavian 'prophesy' that I was gonna get a promotion in a few weeks' time...along with a corner office. Needless to say, it didn't pan out. I have yet to meet a Malkavian that hasn't had a vision of some sort that was just utter nonsense."
The Gangrel Primogen is cracking up, "Hahaha. Oh, shit! Hahahahahahaha!"
Clarice remains calm, like the schoolteacher she once was, "I am sorry to hear that. Yes, it is true, some of what we see does end up being nothing more than a load of hooey, yes--"
She fixes her gaze on the Baali, "--but there are times when our visions and dreams prove to be of the utmost importance. I implore you to keep an open mind, darling." She wears a faint smile as she tells this to Markham.
Sheriff Velma tells the Malk, "Heh, maybe you can help find out more about those hitmen who are still, in all likelihood, after him."
Clarice gently bows her head, "I will do my best, Sheriff DuPont. Then again, what use is my help if this man does not first reach out and ask. How can I know if a student has doubts if they do not lift their hand or speak? Contrary to what you might've heard, I am no mind reader."
Markham folds his arms and plainly says, "I'll keep it in mind. Roxanne's my prime focus right now." His tone is matter-of-fact, and it's obvious he doesn't want to go through this whole song-and-dance right now.
Dr. Collins notices Clarice's brief smile faltering at the mention of Roxanne's name, but he doesn't know why.
Clarice's lips quiver and she mouths off, "Roxanne. Brujah Clan. A prostitute by profession. Pricey compared to other harlots in the city. She's the only one who seems good at what she does- whoring. But...yes, g--good at what she does." Her expression is more melancholic than before.
Markham asks the Sheriff, "She knows where to find her?"
Sheriff Velma shrugs, "Ask her, not me."
Markham shoots the Malkavian Primogen a look, eyebrow raised.
Clarice sighs, "I know of fellow Seers who regularly...sleep with her. I'll speak to them when I get the time."
"Thanks."
Clarice snickers, "Oh, don't mention it."
There seems to be some kind of a raucous coming from the other end of the room, some sort of...yelling.
Prince Antonio gets up and his face scrunches in confusion, he gestures for the Sheriff to go and see what all the hullabaloo is about. Sheriff Velma does so without a moment's hesitation.
There's a lot of muffled voices and shuffling noises coming from that direction, like some kind of brawl. The Gangrel Primogen gets up and is about to say something when a whole load of people come pouring in.
Right at the front stands a man who is bulky and muscular. He's got medium-length blonde hair, dark-blue eyes, a scarred face, and a stern expression.
Behind him are 2 other guys, one's got an eyepatch, a large scar, and a whole lot of piercings, while the other one looks like a fucking brick shithouse, all rippling muscles, a hard wall of a man.
The man in the front speaks with a gruff British accent when he steps forward, footsteps heavy and firm, "Alright, this the place, eh? 'Cause this better be the right place and the right time, you lot." He stands at the entrance with his hands on his hips.
Pedro shoves past and makes the introductions, "Uh...this is the um...Brujah delegation. Prince Antonio, err...I told you that they were ready to integrate with the Camarilla..."
The guy in the front cracks his neck and rolls his shoulders a few times. He raises his chin and introduces himself, "Name's Clive. Former Anarch. I'm done with those tossers. Now, I wanna throw me lot in with the posh 'uns at the Ivory Tower."
Pedro motions towards Sheriff Velma, "This is Sheriff Velma DuPont. Clan Ventrue."
The Sheriff keeps her cool and looks at all the Brujah that are now crowding-up the joint. A lot of them are busy mumbling and talking amongst themselves.
They all look tough and battle-worn. Sheriff Velma suppresses the urge to sneer in contempt.
She politely offers her hand out to Clive, "Sheriff Velma DuPont. Welcome."
Clive scoffs at her hand, "Pfffsht. We heard of you, love. What you did to those poor Thin-Bloods back in '99 was unwarranted."
Sheriff Velma plainly states, "No Thin-Bloods in this Domain. If you've got an issue with it, walk."
Prince Antonio chimes in, "Hey! You don't get to bring your gaggle of Punks to MY fucking Elysium and tell me how to run shit in MY Domain. I've been doing this for a 100 fucking years before any of you slabs showed up!"
Clive seems to enjoy this and looks over his shoulder. The rest of his posse seem to be itching for a fight.
He tells them, "You heard that? Old boy's been running this gaffe for a bleedin' century now." He makes a big show out of clapping his meaty hands together. The other Brujah join in; some whistle and jeer at the Ventrue Prince.
Dr. Collins leans forward in his chair to get a better look. He's still a fair bit away, though. He feels very conflicted about this. He doesn't know what he should say or do in a situation like this.
Once all the mocking has died down, Prince Antonio bluntly asks, "You got my fucking money? Because that's the only way I'm letting you have a seat at the Primogen Council. Filthy fucking Anarchs." Those last 3 words have more venom attached to them than anything else.
Clive clears his throat and smacks his lips, "Yeah. Right, we've got your dosh. But, what guarantee do I 'ave that you won't go around changing the wee prices again, hmm? It's already the 3rd time you've fucked us over."
Prince Antonio doesn't let the towering Punk get the better of him, "It's called inflation. I gotta do what I gotta do. Besides, you clowns have been operating in my Domain, right under my nose, for YEARS! I can't let shit like that slide!"
Clarice joins these...troubling negotiations, "I still remain skeptical about allowing former Anarchs into the Primogen Council. Especially, those of you that are as...brutish as this group seems to be. The Camarilla is supposed to be about maintaining order. A degree of sophistication that I fear your kind just lacks."
She quickly adds, "No offense, of course."
Clive snickers to himself, "None taken, grandma."
Clarice softly laughs at that remark, "So you say. If you wish to be welcome into the Camarilla, then you must prove yourself in some way or the other. I doubt your money alone, no doubt a pitiful sum, would convince Prince Antonio to grant you all an official seat."
The Prince seems to agree with the Malkavian, "That's right! You all just wanna...waltz into MY fucking Domain, start demanding that I make YOU part of the Primogen Council..."
He takes a few steps closer to the Punk, "...it doesn't work that way."
Clive takes a few steps back and his hard expression softens a little, "I mean, you're asking me for 1 million US dollars?! That's a load of bloody bullshit, that is." His tone is accusing. He's not holding anything back.
Many Brujah behind him signal their agreement with grunts, murmurs, and nods.
The Prince glares at them. His expression is unreadable.
Clive asks the Ventrue Prince, "How the 'ell am I supposed to get that kind of dosh, mate?"
Prince Antonio looks at Clive like the guy's some kind of a moron, "I dunno? Go suck cocks, rob banks, punch massive holes in walls, tip over buses, y'know, whatever it is you fucking Brujah usually do to make money. I don't give a damn! You either give me what I want, or you fuck off back to wherever the hell it was that you came from!"
Dr. Collins turns around in his seat and makes eye-contact with the others. Clive beckons to the Tzimisce Primogen, "Oi! Who the 'ell are you?"
The good doctor stands up and introduces himself.
Clive bites his lip and nods, "A Tzimisce doctor, eh? Wow. Make any flesh furniture lately? Any extra appendages you attached to some unlucky sod?"
"No, I...don't do that sort of thing." The doctor's face tics when he says this.
Clive wears an almost smug expression, "'Course not, right. Of course you don't do any of that sorta stuff. Or would you? You know what a Vozhd is??"
Dr. Collin gulps and answers, "Yes. A creation of our Clan, mostly. A mishmash of living beings melded together into an elephant-sized, multi-limbed monster. Dozens of lobotomized Ghouls merged through Koldunic Sorcery and Vicissitude, resulting in...something truly horrible."
Clive takes a few menacing steps towards the mild-mannered doctor, "You ever make 1 of these fucking abominations or take part in the creation of 1, doctor?"
"No."
Clive puts his strong hands on the doctor's shoulders and repeats his question, "No, I don't believe you, lad. How can I believe you? I've seen you Tzimisce and what you've been doing to people, animals, and Ghouls in general."
Dr. Collins maintains a brave face, "I have nothing to do with the grotesque excesses of my Clan. I don't know why I should have to prove this to you or anyone else here." He doesn't dare to blink, however, his eye contact with the towering Punk falters at points.
Clive shoves the Tzimisce down to the floor and grunts, "If I ever catch a wee whisper of you taking part in anything remotely resembling the creation of a Vozhd, I'll fucking tear you apart, limb by fucking limb."
Dr. Collins promptly stands up and remains in his place. His expression has a bit of fear, but he seems to hold himself together pretty well.
With some bitterness and past trauma lacing his words, Clive explains to everyone present, "I've had me fair shares of running into Vozhds. I lost many good people- people I loved, cared about, and bled with- to those monstrous shites."
He shakes his head and painfully mutters, "Not again. I'm not losing anyone of me mates EVER...AGAIN."
Prince Antonio indifferently rolls his eyes, "Wow, real deep. Nah, Collins and the rest of the Flesh-Shapers in this city don't mess around with that kind of sick shit, now stop being a bitch and hand over my fuckin' money."
Dr. Collins shoots him an irritated glance.
Prince Antonio smugly tells Clive, "If it helps you sleep better in the day, then great. But, you want a seat at the Council, you pay up like everyone else here does. Speaking of, hey, Collins! Get over here!"
Dr. Collins exhales sharply, grabs the bag of money, and makes his way to Prince Antonio. He feels uncomfortable being in such close proximity with the Prince, but he goes along with it.
The Ventrue Prince makes a grand gesture with his arms when he boasts to the crowd, "There you have it, ladies and gents. When I asked Collins here to get me my dough, he gets it. No complaints, no whining, no bitching, he just...brings it." He flashes a self-satisfied grin.
Dr. Collins just stands there, looking like he'd rather be anywhere else but here.
Clive grunts, but doesn't say anything. There's a small look of disgust on his face, however, as he sees the Tzimisce handing over the cash to the Prince. He keeps his thoughts to himself.
For now.
Prince Antonio opens the bag and perches an eyebrow, "10 grand, right?"
"Yes," Dr. Collins replies, in an equable manner.
The Prince snaps his fingers and orders his Sheriff, "Velma, go on and collect the cash from the rest of 'em. Chop-chop."
With a certain reluctant urgency in her step, Sheriff Velma goes to Pedro and holds out her cold hand. The Gangrel Primogen reaches into his back pocket and puts some money on her hand with a deep and frustrated sigh.
The Sheriff lifts an eyebrow, "That doesn't look like $5000."
Pedro bends down and reaches into his socks, he pulls out some more cash and slams it in her hand, "There. Hmph." His tone is biting and full of disdain.
The Sheriff thanks him and moves on to Clarice. The Malkavian Primogen gingerly reaches into her purse and produces the same amount in an envelope that has "MONEY" written on it in big, bold, letters. She gives it to the Sheriff with a wan smile. There's a kind of sadness in her eyes when she looks at the other Kindred.
Sheriff Velma takes it all without comment.
Sheriff Velma hands over the money to Prince Antonio. The Brujah in attendance silently watch. Some murmurs and hushed whispers can be heard, however. There's an undercurrent of anger and discontent brewing among them.
Prince Antonio smugly accepts his tribute money and raises his chin, "Now, you, Velma. $2500. C'mon, chop-chop, I don't have all night."
The Sheriff produces a few crispy dollar notes that look like they're straight from an ATM. She hands it over to her Prince with a cold look in her eyes. Prince Antonio accepts it with a smirk. He turns towards the Brujah with a wide, self-satisfied grin and fans himself with the money.
"This is how I run my Domain. THIS is how I've been running it for the past 100 years. Capeesh?"
Clive folds his arms and stifles a groan, "Cor blimey. You got these sods all wrapped around your cold, dead fingers, huh? It's a bloody extortion racket, mate!"
The Prince refuses to back down, "Call it whatever you want. If you want in, then this is the way; Antonio Black doesn't do shortcuts."
The Brujah points to Markham, "How come that brooding guy over there hasn't coughed up any dosh, eh? Oi, you!" with that, Clive trudges over to Markham and takes a seat next to the Baali. The others keep a few feet between them.
Markham plainly answers, "I'm not from around here and I have nothing to do with this. To be honest, I don't even know why I was called here tonight."
Pedro angrily cuts in and growls, "He's a fucking Baali."
Clive thoughtfully nods and scowls, "Baali, huh? The same pet-kidnapping and murdering fucks who've been running around this city for decades now?" his voice has an accusing tone.
Markham looks at him and says, "I am not one of those. I am not responsible for their actions and I have nothing whatsoever to do with any of that."
Clive prods, "Ah, so you say. What's your story, then? Why are you here if you got nothing useful to contribute?"
Markham shrugs, "I was told to be here by the Sheriff. Don't read too much into it."
The Punk scoffs, "Aye. A man of few words, eh? Fancy yourself the strong, silent type, eh?"
Markham is unperturbed, "Something like that." He looks straight ahead. His expression is neutral and nonchalant, it's hard to tell what he's thinking.
Clive closes the distance and puts his burly, meaty hand on Markham's shoulder, "What do you do for an Unliving, mate?"
"I work for the SEC."
Clive repeats, "The SEC. The SEC, huh? So, you're a finance cop, eh? Getting stuck in all that stock market shite, investments and the like. You ever get some pain in yer napper?" he taps the side of his head when he asks this.
Markham dryly responds, "Sometimes." His voice is bland and emotionless. It's hard to tell if he's being sarcastic or not.
Clive shoves the Baali a little and throws his head back, "Ahhh, fine, don't talk. Keep your little secrets, Mr. Baali SEC Man." He gets up and takes a seat in the back with his other Brujah buddies following in tow.
As Clive is about to leave, Markham asks, "You know anyone by the name of Roxanne? She's part of your Clan."
Clive stops in his tracks and his face scrunches in confusion, "Roxanne? Never heard of her, pal. Oi, any of you wankers hear of any bird named Roxanne?"
Surprisingly, every single Brujah in this dilapidated and decrepit music hall says, "NO!"
Markham seems surprised by this, "But, she's Brujah like you..."
Clive shrugs indifferently, "Never heard of her, bruv. What's so special about this bird, anyway?"
Sheriff Velma dismissively answers, "She's a hooker who's pricier than most. That's all." She sounds a bit annoyed by it.
Markham simply says to Clive, "Thanks, I guess."
Clive nods back and leaves to sit with his other Brujah cronies, "1 of us, a whore? Bloody 'ell. How the Learned Clan has fallen over the decades. Pfft."
The other Brujah whisper and say something or the other to each other. Some are likely eager to know more about this Roxanne and maybe...elicit her services. A few of them rub their hands together and growl in a very suggestive manner.
Clive snaps at them, "Oi! Stop it! If this Roxanne bird wants, she can find us."
Sheriff Velma points out, "They say she's got her ears for the streets of this city--"
Clive interjects, "WE got our ears for this city, not some fucking unknown slag."
The Sheriff narrows her eyes and continues, "Don't interrupt me ever again. This isn't some biker hangout where you sit back and drink forties and howl like maniacs. At Elysium, you're expected to maintain some sense of decorum...and class, which you people clearly lack."
The Brujah clicks his tongue defiantly, "Alright, love, alright, calm your tits. Like I was saying, if this Roxanne slag wants to do business with us, she can come and see us herself. I'll be happy to get to know her better."
Clarice shakes his head, "I doubt she'll be too pleased to work with you...clowns."
Clive mockingly asks, "I beg your pardon?"
Clarice repeats herself, plainly and without hesitation, "You Brujah have devolved into nothing but a bunch of unrefined barbarians. Your...muscles will get you nowhere with a shrewd woman like Roxanne." She wears a subtle smile when she tells him all this.
Clive snickers, interlocks his fingers behind his head, and leans back, "Oi, that's rich coming from a batty old lass." He winks at the Malkavian Primogen.
Dr. Collins takes a seat next to Pedro and inquires with a whisper, "Is it always this...lively?"
Pedro softly chuckles, "No. THIS is actually pretty tame compared to what it was like a few years ago. Back then, the Ventrue would openly fight each other in here--"
He points to some scratched walls on the left side of the hall, "Back in the 80s, a couple of amigos absolutely lost it and started bashing up the place. Killed 2 of their Ghouls, right there. One of them had a big-ass hole in the chest and the other one was shot in the neck, bled out in minutes."
Dr. Collins grimaces, "Goddamn."
Pedro adds, "Yeah, your Galeb was here that night."
"Hmm."
Prince Antonio gets back on his throne in the front and impatiently waits for Pierre to arrive. He repeatedly checks his watch, groaning and huffing in an annoyed fashion.
"The fuck is this Frenchie? Velma!"
Sheriff Velma blandly shrugs and suggests, "Maybe we should just go on. You know how moving around in this city is."
Prince Antonio lazily waves his hand, "Yeah, yeah. No need to gimme a lecture. Oh, boohoo, traffic sucks. Oh, waaa, it's too congested. Well, get a bigger car, you fuckin' losers!" He doesn't seem to be directing that jibe at anyone in particular, it's just the general direction of the room.
Clarice retorts, "That's hardly the solution, Prince Antonio. It would only worsen things and make it even harder for pedestrians. As it is, Flimont City has 1 of the worst pedestrian fatality rates in all of the Midwest and that's saying something." Her tone is disapproving.
The Prince snarls at her, "Shut the hell up! I didn't ask you, Kook! If I wanted your input, I'd ask for it. And again, use your inside voice."
Clarice sighs deeply and puts the side of her head on her knuckles. She doesn't seem too thrilled to be here (or to have parted with $5000).
Dr. Collins chimes in, "She's right, y'know. Pedestrian deaths are very common. People don't know how to drive or they're in a hurry. It's a vicious cycle." He doesn't look at the Ventrue Prince while he says this.
Prince Antonio huffs, "What is this?! A fuckin' city hall meeting? Shut up about the fucking traffic and the pedestrians and shit! Right now, I wanna see that Brujah cough up some fuckin' dough!"
Pedro clicks his tongue and goes to speak with Clive, "Amigo, you uh..."
Clive shoots the Feral a baleful glance, "This is not what we agreed to. When you said you were ready to facilitate our entry into the Camarilla, you never told us it was gonna be this bloody extortion racket."
Pedro is about to say something but stops himself. He tries again, but nothing comes out. Finally, he apologizes, "I--I'm sorry, OK? I didn't know he was going to charge you...THIS MUCH! A million dollars is an outrageous amount of money, man!"
Clive scoffs, "Oi, so you say. But you ain't the one who has to pay it, are you?"
Pedro huffs and turns to Prince Antonio, "C'mon, hermano, make a little room, yeah? A million dollars is just way too much, man. Maybe you can lower the price a little? Please?" he sounds desperate and his expression is pleading.
Prince Antonio is unmoved, "Nah, I don't think I will. These slimy fucking Anarchs gotta learn that they can't come into MY Domain and fuck with ME!" his tone is harsh, angry, and uncompromising.
He points to Clive, "You want in, then you pay up like everyone else!"
Dr. Collins cuts in, "It's clear this kind of back-and-forth is getting us nowhere. A million dollars is outrageous. Hell, even the money I was...asked to bring tonight was just as outrageous. You have no right to demand this kind of money from us."
Prince Antonio narrows an eye, "Wise guy, huh?"
Dr. Collins replies, "That's not what I meant. I'm just saying that these arbitrary charges are...unnecessary. Why does the Primogen Council even owe you money in the first place? Y--You even take money from your own Sheriff." His tone is firm, but not unkind.
The Prince leans forward and snarls, "All your fancy doctor degrees don't mean squat cause I'm the Prince around here. ME! It's how I've run this Domain and how I always will. Galeb never had a problem with bringing me my money when I asked for it. And look at how far he got."
"Galeb was quite a wealthy man," Dr. Collins reminds him.
Prince Antonio lifts his chin, "So, get wealthy too. It's the American Dream, isn't it?"
Dr. Collins claps back, "The more I see of this city, the more suffering I witness, the less I believe in those fairytales sold to me when I was younger."
Prince Antonio ignores that and waggles a finger at the Tzimisce Primogen, "Don't be a wise guy, Collins. And you're still gonna help find Galeb. Remember that?"
Dr. Collins groans and says, "I'm doing my best, but we haven't seen hide nor hair of him ever since. I think we should just accept the fact that he's been Beckoned off."
Clarice concurs with this assessment, "It's the only logical conclusion to draw. He was an Elder, after all. But, if it makes you feel better, I'll talk to a few Seers and see if they can give us any insights into the matter." Her tone is very gentle and considerate.
Prince Antonio turns to Pedro and asks, "What about you? What do you think happened to Galeb?"
The Feral Primogen shrugs elaborately and doesn't answer. Markham shifts in his seat, maintaining his look of indifference and aloofness.
Prince Antonio slams a fist down and curses, "FUCK! We can't just go on like this forever, people will start wondering."
He grits his teeth and desperately says, "I NEED Galeb to get his ass back here!"
Clive joins in, "Why? What's so special about him?"
Sheriff Velma gives Clive a dirty look and grunts, "It's not our place to question Prince Antonio. So shut up and listen when he talks, alright?"
Clive sarcastically replies, "Yes, mum."
The other Brujah snicker and cackle at this.
Clarice sighs and shakes her head. Dr. Collins looks like he'd rather be anywhere else but here. Markham looks as uninterested as ever.
Pedro remains uncertain, since he's the one who's facilitating the entry of the Brujah into Prince Antonio's Court, but the Prince is being as belligerent (and greedy) as ever. It's going to take a lot of convincing and persuading on Pedro's part to get the Prince to lower the price for Clive's seat at the table.
He tries, "Look, hermano, I'm willing to chip in more money if I have to--"
Prince Antonio holds up his finger, "Lalalalalalala. No. I don't do the whole 'on behalf of someone else' shit. The money HAS TO come from Captain Steroids over there." He points to Clive.
Clive grits his teeth and folds his arms.
Pedro tries again, "Yeah, but you can't expect him to cough up a million dollars, man. People in this city barely make enough to--"
Prince Antonio raises his voice, "Lalalalalalala. Stop it. Don't. I don't give a shit about any of them- I've heard that sob story a million times and it's starting to get old. Right now, my only concern is getting my fucking money- a million bucks."
Pedro sighs and slumps down, he puts his hands on his face and groans. Clarice shoots a disapproving look at the Ventrue Prince.
The Prince glares back, "The fuck you staring at me like that for, huh? I ain't some student of yours who got his hand caught in the cookie jar, alright?"
Clarice grimly declares, "Your incessant and insatiable greed, Prince Antonio Black, will be your undoing."
Whoa.
The Prince springs up from his comfy seat and angrily points to Clarice, claws extended, "OK, you listen to me, you crazy-ass Malkavian bitch! I'll have you and every-fucking-one of you thrown out of this Domain if you don't shut the fuck up RIGHT NOW!"
Clarice raises her head in an almost (but not quite) defiant manner. The Prince's face is twisted into an expression of fury and rage. It's quite a sight to behold.
Clarice simply says, "I speak what I see, Prince Antonio. Even after all these years, what you do with that money we give you remains a mystery to us all. But, I can safely and confidently conclude that NONE of it is spent on or for the betterment of Kindred Society."
The Prince is practically seething, so much so that Sheriff Velma steps in and chides the Seer Primogen, "Clarice. Can. It. Right. Now. You crossed a line, OK? Don't forget that it is HE who makes the rules here. We do what HE says, whether we like it or not."
Dr. Collins is at a loss for words, but he's clearly uncomfortable. Markham seems to be taking this in stride.
Clive laughs out loud, "HAHAHA! Oh, blimey! This shite is getting good!" He and his gang are thoroughly enjoying the political (shit)show.
"Shut up, Clive!" Sheriff Velma yells at him.
The Punk mockingly mimes zipping his lips shut and he even makes a show of tossing the invisible key to a mate of his. The other Brujah "catches" this nonexistent key and swallows it like a pill. She giggles to herself.
Prince Antonio takes a deep breath and calms himself down, "Right, I'm calm, alright? I'm calm. No more yelling. We're--We're all friends here."
Dr. Collins mutters softly, "Friends who pay each other and themselves a lot of money, apparently."
The Prince sucks some air through his teeth, "Collins, don't. Just--don't. You don't know half the shit I put up with every night, OK?"
Dr. Collins, ever the man of medicine, offers, "If there's something ailing you, come by the clinic and I could--"
The Ventrue Prince holds up a stern finger and shakes his head, "No, nuh-uh. I'm fine, f--fine as can be, doc. Don't even go there, alright?"
Pedro softly remarks, "There's no shame in admitting when you need help, hermano." His tone is sympathetic.
The Prince is about to say something, but he stops himself. He looks up at the ceiling and bites his lip, he seems to be holding back some very strong emotions.
Sheriff Velma puts her hand on his shoulder and gives it a little squeeze. She proceeds to tell everyone present, "We're gonna take a short break. When we come back, hopefully, we'll be ready to move on."
Clive loudly hollers, "Fuck that! It's clear this is going no-bleeding-where. I don't 'ave a million dollars lying about. Even together, none of us 'ave that kind of amount!"
He gets up, dusts himself off, and adds, "We're leaving this dump. C'mon, lads, lasses, and others. I don't know how you lot put up with this tosser, I--I really don't."
Heaping insult to injury, Clive goes on, "You've got a fragile ego, mate. I've seen and dealt with Power Mongers before, but never anything like this. I'm disappointed, Pedro, VERY disappointed."
All Pedro can do is sigh and lower his head in shame. He has a lot riding on this deal with getting the Brujah integrated into the Prince's Court, but the Prince is being as unreasonable (and greedy) as ever.
Prince Antonio folds his arms, "Then, I'll be forced to call a Blood Hunt on you- every last one of you whores."
Clive shakes his head and laughs that off, "You wouldn't bloody dare, mate. You wouldn't bloody dare..."
Even Sheriff Velma can't help but concur with the Punk, "Prince Antonio, he's right. As it is, we're still reeling from the SI attack back in '95. Another large-scale conflict would only spell trouble for everyone here. Please, think about this." She's trying to appeal to reason.
Prince Antonio is unmoved, "I'm the fucking Prince, you're all under MY Praxis, and I'll do what I damn well please, and right now, what I want is for this filthy fucking Anarch to pay his share." He points to Clive with his sharp claws. It's clear that he's not budging.
The other Brujah stand at the back, ready to fight, or flee. It's quite hard to tell with this snarling lot.
Clarice remarks, "You've had a good century so far, Prince Antonio. Think long and hard about the next decade...or 2."
Prince Antonio dismisses her remark and focuses on the Brujah, "You know we got the numbers to end you in under a week, right? It's not like any of you guys would be missed, anyway. Trust me, I've done it before. Back in 1995--" he looks very smug when he says this.
Pedro cuts in, "It was MY Clan that took the brunt of the SI attacks back in '95! The Ventrue barely helped! The Tzimisce shrugged their shoulders and looked the other way! Even the Malks stood aside. It was just us Cholos against heavily-armed racist fucks who wanted our heads and nothing more!" he sounds angry and resentful.
The horrifying memories of those attacks are still fresh in his mind.
Dr. Collins, for his part, offers something of an apology, "On behalf of my Clan, I'm sorry, Pedro. From what I recall, not many of us were properly informed of the true nature of these attacks. A lot us, myself included, thought it was some kind of a mortal turf war that got out of hand."
He stops for a moment and continues, "We never even suspected the SI's involvement. Hell, we--we never expected them to go around arming domestic terrorists and letting them loose on the city. Not until it was already too late, that is."
Pedro smiles at the doc, but the pain behind it is apparent, "It's not your fault, hermano. But, your Galeb refused to send some combat-capable Tzimisce to back us up when we asked."
The Feral curses in Spanish and adds, "And it was OUR fucking Sheriff who was too busy with her other projects." He glares at Sheriff Velma. She's unfazed by it. She just stares right back at him. The silence is deafening.
Sheriff Velma nonchalantly states, "I was culling the Duskborn. Believe it or not, but that takes precedence. Besides, you people seemed to have it all under control. By the time you Beasts were done with those jokers, they were nothing but a pile of bones, guts, and gore."
Pedro snarls, "And I--we lost so many good people!! Of course, a Ventrue Gringo like you wouldn't give a damn about a bunch of lowly Chicanos..." his voice breaks towards the end and small droplets of blood trickle down the side of his eyes.
The Sheriff is quick to refute this, "Don't go putting words in my mouth, Feral. Whatever it is you think you're implying, I suggest you stop it right now. I didn't come all the way here to be called a racist." Her tone is full of anger.
She's barely restraining herself, which is a contrast to her unusually cool, almost smug, demeanor.
Clive has had just about enough. He finger-whistles, rounds up his fellow Rebels, and announces, "It's clear this shite's going nowhere. It seems you lot have a lot of unresolved issues floating about the gaffe. Pedro, I like you, but don't waste me time like this again."
He sharply points in the Feral's direction, "The next time I set foot in this manky place, it better be worth me time...and the price for entry best be reasonable."
The Ventrue Prince blithely states, "I'm open to negotiating."
Clive shakes his head and walks off. Pedro feels the weight and pressure of being the Primogen of the Gangrel Clan. He has a lot on the line here, but so does Prince Antonio. They both have something the other wants (sort of).
Pedro simply doesn't seem to have the will or the patience to deal with someone so obstinate and blinkered. Sheriff Velma glowers at him with the intensity of a 1000 suns.
Dr. Collins doesn't make any comments. He just sits back and observes the events unfolding. He's still a little shaken up about earlier, though. And Markham? He's still pretty chill and aloof.
He looks at his watch and asks the obvious question, "When's this Pierre guy coming?"
Sheriff Velma sighs, "Traffic's a bitch in this city. Maybe he got stuck or took a wrong turn. You'd be surprised by how often THAT happens."
Clive comes back and calls out to Markham, "Oi, Baali! Good luck finding that Roxanne slag! I hope you get whatever it is you want out of 'er!" with that, he plods off and leaves with his other Brujah buddies.
Markham nods and waves back. Dr. Collins wonders what it is the Baali actually does for the SEC. He also has other things on his mind- Brock's needless humiliation, the patients at the clinic (especially Sammie, Wyatt, and little Ralf), and many other matters.
At the end of the night, Dr. Collins is still a doctor, first and foremost. Medical matters always occupy his busy mind. It's also a good way to keep in-touch with one's own Humanity. Especially on nights like these, keeping the Beast at bay is a must for continued survival.
Prince Antonio snaps his fingers and tells the Sheriff, "Velma, you got a number for this Frenchie? Call him up and ask him where the fuck he is."
Sheriff Velma shakes her head plainly, "Pierre's not exactly big on phones, Prince Antonio."
The Prince grunts, "Fuck! Hey, Reed, c'mon, tell me a little more about yourself. I need a way to pass the time."
Markham looks confused, "But...don't you have other things to discuss?"
Prince Antonio shrugs, "Nah. I was hoping to be done with the integration of the Brujah by tonight, but fucking fate just loves to fuck with me. Anyway, talk to me. So, who are you investigating, huh?"
Markham dryly replies, "I'd prefer to keep that confidential."
Sheriff Velma has no such qualms and answers, "Those 2 guys: Luciano Donovan Junior and his best friend, Paul Cho."
Pedro lives in a world very different from the likes of LDJ and Paul, so he remains silent. The Prince leans forward and seems curious.
He motions, "Ah, those 2. Go on, go on."
Markham's been put in a tight spot here. He's never been the type to go around divulging matters related to ongoing investigations all willy-nilly. He has standards, procedures, and protocols to follow.
The Sheriff, however, doesn't let this get to her and presses on, "They're suspected of the usual things guys like that are suspected of. Tax evasion, insider trading, embezzlement, fraud, market manipulation, and the like. You name it, they're probably doing it."
Markham nods, "That...pretty much sums it up, yes. I'll need more evidence before I can build an airtight case against those 2."
Dr. Collins dryly remarks, "Everything I've learned about the Donovans- father and son- has been against my will. It isn't too harsh to say that people like that are the reason Flimont City is the way it currently is."
The Malkavian Primogen concurs, "Yes. Every now and then, I pass by the old public school I used to teach at until my Embrace forced me to...retire."
With a distant look, she adds, "It is...falling apart. And that's just the exterior. Those who walk through its mold- and asbestos-ridden halls aren't faring too well, I'd imagine...I could go on, really."
Prince Antonio holds up his hand, palm facing outwards, "Please don't. I'm tired of hearing about the plights of the poor. That's all they ever talk about, huh? If you're too lazy to pull up your socks, don't expect handouts from this city."
The Prince's attitude and tone of voice have changed quite drastically. It's even snootier than usual.
Clarice wants, so badly, to clap back, but she restrains herself. However, her set jaw and very stern look say all that needs to be said. She's clearly not impressed with her Prince's attitude.
Prince Antonio's not the type to give a shit what anyone thinks, though. He's got the power, the influence, the money, and the fists around these parts.
Sheriff Velma adds her own 2 cents, "Well, for what it's worth, this city barely has any music scene. Maybe we could do something about...this place?"
She's trying, and failing, to appeal to reason as she gestures to the crappy state of Elysium.
The Ventrue Prince is having none of that, "That's the way it's always been, Sheriff. If I do anything with this dump, it's gonna involve me making all that money I spent back, plus a lil extra. Capeesh?"
Well, Ms. DuPont tried. She merely nods her head as way of response.
Pedro angrily asks Markham, "How does a fucking Demon Worshipper like you end up working for the goddamn SEC?!"
"I applied for the job."
Pedro snarls, "Ah, think you're special, huh? Well, lemme remind you again, pendejo: I see you in Gangrel territory, and all bets are fucking off!"
Sheriff Velma steps in, "Pedro, no. Even though he's Baali, Markham has nothing to do with all the animal sacrifice that goes on. He's just a government employee." She says the last part with an irritated huff.
Markham is unfazed by all this, "I'm not looking for any trouble, and I certainly don't intend to go around the city, sacrificing animals, and doing whatever else it is you believe I'm supposed to be doing- I want nothing to do with that part of my Bloodline."
With a little more force in his voice, he adds, "I've made that abundantly clear MANY times already, OK?"
Pedro folds his arms and grumbles, "So you fucking say, but stay the hell away from us...and our pets. Pendejo."
Dr. Collins looks at his Prince and inquires, "What's next, Prince Antonio? Is there anything else to go over tonight?"
Prince Antonio answers, "Find Galeb. I want every last one of you Stokers on the case, including yourself, Dr. Collins. He's out there, somewhere, I know it. And we have a lot of work to do. The sooner we find him, the sooner we can get our affairs in order and move on with things."
The Ventrue leans back in his "throne" and throws his head back. He lets out a long sigh and suggests that they wait a few more minutes for this Pierre dude to show up.
5 minutes turn to 10. 10 minutes turn to 15. 15 turns to 30. The vampires in the music hall get a little restless and antsy, some even get up to stretch their undead legs. Brock comes back after cooling off and takes a seat right in the back, under a barely-lit corner of this dismal place.
Prince Antonio gets off his throne and paces a tight circle. He bites his thumb and contemplates a few things.
After a few more minutes of idle waiting (and a little chatter), a thin and unassuming man raps his knuckles on the termite-eaten doors. Sheriff Velma quickly gets up and lets him in. He's wearing a dark-brown trench coat with a blue dress shirt and black pants underneath.
Sheriff Velma looks at him, eyes narrowed, "You're not Pierre."
The man is pale and looks to be in his late-20s. He's clean-shaven, has dark-blue eyes, and a very unassuming face.
"Non (FR: No)," the stranger replies. His voice is low and monotone.
Sheriff Velma folds her arms, "You're French."
"Oui (FR: Yes). Je m'appelle Alexandre..."
He continues to speak in French until Prince Antonio rudely cuts him off, "HEY! English!"
Alexandre bows his head in apology, "Sorry, Monsieur. Mr. Despard, unfortunately, had other matters to attend to. I am his Ghoul and loyal companion. I was told that there was one who belongs to our Bloodline, yes?"
Sheriff Velma gestures to Markham and makes the necessary introduction, "His name's Markham Reed. His Sire is some washed-up rock star named Burt something."
Alexandre's eyes light up, "The Childe of Monsieur Burt! Viens, viens (FR: Come, come), I must see for myself this member of our Bloodline!" he's very excited.
Markham simply waves at him, "Hello."
Alexandre gets a good, hard look at Markham, and then says, "Mon Dieu, oui, c'est lui (FR: My God, it is him)."
Markham looks a tad bit uncomfortable and asks, "What's he saying?"
Since Dr. Collins spent some time in France (during WW2), he answers, "It's...him. You, apparently. Whatever that means."
Alexandre softly smiles, "Please forgive me, mesdames ou messieurs (FR: misses or madams and sirs). But, my English is not very...good."
Pedro is fuming, "Another fucking Baali! HEY, pendejo! How many fucking animals did you kill this week, huh?"
Alexandre side-eyes the Feral and replies, "I do...not understand, Monsieur."
"Bullshit! That's what they all say. You think we're gonna let you in, huh? You think we're gonna let ANY of your kind in!?"
Sheriff Velma sternly commands, "Pedro, can it. Right now. I won't be so kind next time. So, Alexandre, yes? Do you...know Markham here?"
Alexandre smiles at Markham, "We have, how do you say, heard of...his Sire and the music he makes, yes."
The Prince narrows his eyes and inquires, "Meaning?"
Sheriff Velma answers, smirking, "It means someone in this city has half-decent taste in music. I actually listened to some of your Sire's music last night, Markham. I know talent when I hear it. Too bad he fell off the radar after the 1970s..."
Markham would rather not relive (or go down) this path again, "Look, I don't wanna talk about it. I don't like talking about it. If anything, I'd prefer to forget it all and move on with my Unlife."
The Sheriff sighs and apologizes, "Sorry. I just meant to say, I think your Sire's still got it, that's all. Believe me when I say that I know talent when I hear it."
Dr. Collins adds, "I've always had a bit of a soft-spot for music from the '60s and '70s, especially rock."
Markham tells the doc, "If that's the case, then you can find a bootleg copy of his album at um..."
The Sheriff completes his thought, "Farooq's store."
Alexandre steps closer to Markham and looks at his face, "Oui, oui. The others at Le Clan (FR: The Coven) will be most intrigued by your presence, monsieur...Reed, yes?"
Markham plainly states the usual thing, "I'm not here to get involved with you people or the shit you get up to."
Alexandre looks clueless, so Dr. Collins translates.
Alexandre faintly chuckles, "Monsieur, monsieur, you are of our Blood. If any help you require, yes, then please, come to us. We will be happy for helping, oui."
Prince Antonio snaps his fingers, "Hey! You tell Pierre that I got an offer for him- an offer he can't refuse." He sounds exactly like a clichd mafioso when saying that.
Dr. Collins dutifully relays this, but he stumbles upon a syllable here and there.
The Baali Ghoul gets the gist of it and nods, "Ahhh, oui, oui. I will tell this to monsieur Despard."
He turns to Markham and asks, "Do you want to tell Pierre anything? Do you have, troubles, with anything, monsieur Reed?"
"No."
Alexandre's eyebrows shoot up for a moment. He smiles, bows his head, says a few courteous goodbyes, and takes his leave.
The Prince tells everyone present, "Well, that wraps things up. Alright, scram! And uh...keep your eyes and ears peeled for Galeb. Turn every rock over, shake every broad around, and kick down every door, but find him, goddammit!"
With that, everyone finally takes their leave.
Sheriff Velma stops Markham and talks to him in a corner, "So, not exactly what either of us were expecting, huh?"
The Baali sighs, "I don't even know what you were hoping to get out of that. Anyways, I'm not here to get involved in any of this; I'm here to carry out my investigation, do my job, and go back home after all has been said and done."
Sheriff Velma chuckles, "You really don't get it, do you, Reed? There is no 'investigation'. It's already been compromised and you've got an organization of professional killers breathing down your neck. The longer you do this, the more jaded you get."
"How would you know?"
The Sheriff answers, "I come from a family of music producers. Were it not for my Embrace in the 1940s, I would've been the first woman to take the helm of a big record label."
Markham can't help but feel sorry for her, "Really?"
Sheriff Velma goes on, "You see, Reed, once you start breaking your head over these things too much, you begin to realize just how rigged the game is. Best we can do is shrug it all off and go along for the ride."
Markham claps back, "That sounds banal. There's still a chance to some good, limit the damage that's already been done, and maybe turn things around."
"And?"
"And what? I just want everyone to play fair and by the same rules, Sheriff."
Sheriff Velma gives Markham a pitying look, "Yeah, well, good luck with that, honey. In Flimont City, the law of the jungle IS the law. You know it and I know it- the SEC is toothless in a place like this. Best you could do is bag a few low-level hucksters and hope you don't lose your head in the process."
Markham's had enough of her indifference to it all, "Whatever, Sheriff. Have a nice night." He leaves without looking back.
Sheriff Velma merely sighs and shakes her head. She strides forward and grips his shoulder, "And 1 more thing."
Markham looks at her hand on his shoulder, "What?"
"Since you're in our Domain, you're obligated to take part in a Blood Hunt against any and all Thin-Bloods. If you see 1 or even get a whiff of 1, you kill 'em on the spot. If you can't do that, for some reason, call me and wait. You know my number."
Markham shrugs her hand off his shoulder and goes off without saying much else. He didn't come here to get all tangled-up in this shit, but this shit does have a way of tangling itself up with those who least expect it.
The remaining vamps talk amongst themselves for a while. Dr. Collins takes his leave, Brock following in tow. The Ghoul still has that somewhat sour and resentful look on his face.
Pedro offers Clarice a ride back to her Haven, "C'mon, chica, another lowrider cruise, whaddya say, huh?"
Clarice puts her arm around Pedro's and they walk off, smiling.
As the night draws to a close, the Prince and Sheriff Velma remain. The Sheriff does most of the work, cleaning up the place, setting some crap straight, and making sure it looks at least presentable for next time's gathering.
Prince Antonio lazily sits on his throne and looks at his Sheriff, "You think this Pierre guy will accept?"
Sheriff Velma shrugs, "Hard to say, but if he doesn't, then maybe it's best if you...reduced the asking price. Still, a Baali Primogen does come with certain complications. Especially considering this city's Baali have some...baggage, to put it mildly."
"Yeah, yeah, the animal sacrifice stuff. What about that Markham guy? Ya think he might be interested in becoming Primogen?"
The Sheriff can't help but chuckle at the absurdity of that proposition, "Markham Reed is practically married to his job, Prince Antonio. A guy like him establishes a routine and follows it for years on end until the cards come crashing down- which they almost always do."
"And then what happens?"
"Then, his adaptability is put to the test. If he isn't turned to ashes by the end of it, good."
The Prince leans forward, "And if he fails to adapt?"
Sheriff Velma merely looks at her fellow Ventrue. That look communicates everything without words.
The Prince remarks, "Damn! That's cold!"
The Sheriff finishes throwing some junk in a box. She kicks it under a table, dusts her cold hands, and walks up to the Prince, "So, I'm gonna go now. What's our plan tomorrow night?"
Prince Antonio rubs his forehead, "I don't fuckin' know. I usually rely on you to uh...plan this shit out for me. Ah, never mind. Anyone owe us any debts? The more, the better, heh."
Sheriff Velma lifts her chin, "Leonard Grayson, $117,000. Plus interest."
"I'll talk to him soon. Anyone else?"
"Owner of Peppy's Pizzeria has paid off part of the debt, but still owes us, and other parties, quite a lot."
Prince Antonio grins, "Good. Good. This is good, right?"
Sheriff Velma is not impressed, "Yeah, it's great."
The Prince gets up, "OK, you can go now. And, Velma?"
"Yes?"
"I'm lookin' forward to running this goddamn city for another 100 years, so don't knock it. Capeesh?"
The Sheriff plainly nods her head and saunters off. She has a lot on her plate, but it's nothing she can't handle.
Prince Antonio, meanwhile, has a few pressing matters to attend to, and 1 of them is finding Galeb. He contacts every buster he knows and asks about the missing Tzimisce Elder.
Markham, meanwhile, has walked a few blocks to the place where Diego agreed to pick him up- couldn't risk being seen by Pedro and all.
Diego leans to the side and holds open his pickup truck door, "Yo, what's good, devil man! How was Elysium, huh?"
Markham gets in and blandly replies, "Looked like shit. Well, I mean, it was probably nice in its heyday, but it's just so...rotten now."
Diego laughs, "Yeah, yeah. Like most of this city, huh? So, you learn anything new, huh? Anything we can use? Any info on Roxanne?"
"It's hard to say. The Prince seems a little more unstable than I thought. As for Roxanne, well, we'll just have to go to that motel tomorrow night and hope she's around and...available for a chat."
The Gangrel wolf-whistles, "Heeeey, lookin' for some booty, huh? Hey, no judging here. Of course, I love mi Marisol very much, but you? Oh, homes, a vato like you is a catch, you know what I'm sayin'?"
"Hm. That's up for debate. Anyways, let's get going."
Diego chuckles and starts up his ride, "Whatever you say, amigo. How was Pedro, by the way? Still hates your guts, huh?"
"Yeah."
The Gangrel pensively offers, "I'm sorry about that, man. But, you know the loss of a pet, especially a Famulus, is not something a lot of us can easily get over. Us Ferals have a unique and special relationship with the animals, man."
"I understand." Markham (obviously) refrains from mentioning Alexandre.
And with that, Diego drives Markham back to the former's Haven. It's been a long night. Traffic is dense (as usual, sadly) so the ride is long.
The 2 Kindred talk about this and that, with Diego doing most of the chin-wagging, while Markham responds with single syllables, one-liners, or brief quips.
Once Diego finally pulls up, the Baali thanks him for the ride.
Diego opens his arms in a welcoming gesture, "Heeey! It's no issue, amigo! You can stay with us for as long as you like."
Markham sighs faintly, "I don't wanna impose on you and Marisol."
Diego clicks his tongue, "You're not, so don't worry."
Elsewhere...
Dr. Collins and his Ghoul, Brock are stuck in traffic. There's an accident a few feet away from them. A fancy sportscar smashed up against a lamppost. The driver is a little scarred, but his passenger, a blonde lady not from around these parts, is stuck and has some nasty bruising.
She also seems to be having some kind of a panic attack, too.
Dr. Collins tries to offer his assistance, but the cops quickly surrounded the scene and sent him off. Brock's a little sullen, so Dr. Collins does his best to comfort his Ghoul and ease his mind.
The doc says, "I hope you're not too late for your...date, Brock."
Brock sighs and looks outside the window, chin propped against his palm. His gaze is fixed on the starless skies above. It's been a rough night for him and he hopes that his date pans out well.
Brock changes the subject, "You uh...read the news, doc?"
"Mm-hmm. Nicky Schroeder got killed in an apparent home invasion. Pity."
"Yeah, someone at my class said that the cops were way too quick to say it was a home invasion or whatever."
Brock shrugs and goes on, "It just seems kinda suspect. I mean, the cops here absolutely suck at everything. Did you know that Nicky was gonna write a piece on the Donovans?"
The doctor sighs deeply, "Brock, everything I've learned about the Donovans has been against my will. At this point, I'm not sure who's worse- the father or the son."
Brock softly chuckles, "Yeah, yeah, that's true." His laughter dies out as quickly as it started.
He asks his Domitor, "You think, like, the Donovans had him killed?"
Dr. Collins dryly answers, "It's possible. When you have all the money in the world and then some, you can just about get away with anything in Flimont City, murder included."
He looks at Brock with a thoughtful expression, "And why are you asking this?"
"Dunno. Guess I was just thinking...that's all."
"Mm." The doc contemplates and runs through a few things in his own mind.
After what seems like an eternity, the traffic finally moves. The man who drove his car into a lamppost is seen shaking hands with the officers, while the blonde lady is being shoved against a cop cruiser, hands cuffed behind her back. The cops then shove her into a police van.
Brock can't help but grimace at all this, "Jesus...she--she wasn't even driving the fucking thing! Why--god damn it, this place. Sometimes--hmph, never mind."
Dr. Collins keeps his eyes on the roads and his hands on the steering wheel. He remains calm and composed. Brock is a bit more upset about the way these cops are treating that lady.
But, the doc simply remains silent. He has other matters on his mind- his patients, the clinic, and many other things.
Coming at a red light, Dr. Collins opens the glove compartment of his vehicle, shuffles a few things around, and pulls out a box of condoms. He casually hands it to his Ghoul.
"For you...and him."
Brock gingerly takes the box of condoms and faintly laughs while shaking his head.
Brock can't help but mumble under his breath, "Oh my God...wow, OK." He puts it in his satchel bag and awkwardly adjusts the rear-view mirror.
After some tense silence, with the light about to turn green, Brock smiles and says, "Thanks. I uh...well, it's hard to feel accepted around these parts when you are what you are, y'know?"
Dr. Collins is somewhat familiar with that sentiment, "Mm. I know. You'll be OK, Brock. Things might get better for people like you." He tries his best to offer comfort, as he usually does.
"I hope so. The closet's a dark place to be in. No one was meant to spend their lives deep in there, lost, congested and--and fearful. Thanks again."
The doctor just nods, eyes glued on the road. A little ways later, they arrive at the destination- a medium-sized restaurant/pub with a flickering neon sign, dark concrete walls, and lively music emanating from the interior.
Brock steps out and pats himself down. Dr. Collins offers a few more encouraging words, "Have fun, but do it safely and responsibly."
The Ghoul flashes a thin smile and a quick thumbs-up, "Sure thing!"
Brock takes his leave, and the good Tzimisce doctor wishes him well for the rest of the night.
The Ghoul turns around and waves his immortal master off before making his way into the lively place. He's spotted some of his fellow college pals on their way into the establishment, and he hopes that none of them will recognize him.
Thankfully, the interior has that low, almost sensual, kind of lighting, which will certainly make Brock look a little bit more...suitable to his current environment. There's a huge pool table in the center, surrounded by several booths with comfortable leather seats.
It's not too busy, but not too empty either. There's some amateur indie band playing music on the makeshift stage in the corner. Some patrons are tapping their feet, bobbing their heads, and swaying to the beats.
A man in his early-30s waves Brock over, a seductive smirk dancing on his thin lips. He's wearing a plain gray shirt, which is partially buttoned, slacks, and a pair of scruffy-looking loafers. He has fair skin and his black hair is trimmed down short.
He speaks, his voice a little husky and raspy, "Hey, handsome. I was beginning to think you were a no-show and that I was gonna have to sulk in the corner of this joint. Name's Johnnie. Brock, right?"
Brock nods and takes his seat opposite Johnnie, "Mm-hmm. Yeah, uh...Brock."
"Just Brock, huh? Fair enough, fair enough. So, plastic surgeon in training, huh? Is there a huge demand for that sorta thing in this city?"
"I hope so, heh. But, it's nice to uh...meet you, Johnnie."
"Likewise, Brock. Likewise."
The 2 men look into each other's eyes. There's a passion in there, a desire to lean forward and just go in for a big ol' French kiss, but there's also fear of the unknown, of getting rejected, or making the wrong move.
Brock mentally crosses his fingers and hope it goes well. He also reminds himself of the condoms that the good doctor gave him- safety first, even when having fun!
Dr. Collins drives back to his Haven. He drives through the poorer parts of this city, shaking his head and feeling sad. He passes by the homeless, the addicts, the unemployed, the unlucky, the rejected, the dejected, and so on and so forth.
He even spots a few desperate-looking prostitutes (of all genders) offering their services (even to the point of degradation or worse) to anyone who flashes dollar bills in their faces.
This sight saddens him deeply. But, there's not much he can do about it without breaching the Masquerade. His mind returns to the clinic. It's the only thing that keeps him from throwing in the towel and wholly succumbing to his inner Beast.
At least within those peeling walls, Dr. Collins has a chance to do some good by healing people, diagnosing their ailments, and making sure that they leave healthier than they did when they came. Even with his immortality, it's still not easy being a doctor, and a vampire, in a city like Flimont.
On the way home, a truly gruesome sight catches Dr. Collins's eyes- that of multiple beat cops mercilessly beating the shit out of a young (looking to be under 20), almost emaciated boy, on a cracked sidewalk. The boy's pleading for them to stop and leave him be.
Besides him, there's a loaf of bread and a can of Pepsi. The boy pleads for mercy, but the pigs relentlessly go at him like a human piata. Some passerby shakes their heads, some tut, others stop for a moment to watch the beating, and then quickly move on like it's none of their business.
The boy is bruised, bloodied, and beaten. Dr. Collins watches in horror, slack-jawed and wide-eyed. He wants to intervene, but he knows that the FCPD is as corrupt and ruthless as it gets. The beatings go on and on.
Finally, after the kid's pretty much in a broken heap of bones and blood, the cops take out their cuffs and do their usual song and dance routine of forcing themselves to recall the Miranda Rights.
The kid can barely stand. His face is swollen, bloodied, and bruised. The cops haul him off and put him in a cruiser, laughing at him while they do this. They even throw the bread and can of Coke in an overflowing trashcan and drive off.
1 of the cops sneers, "Fucking bums."
Dr. Collins is stunned into a silence. A distant look has made its way on his face, as well. He grips the steering wheel tighter, knuckles going white, fangs grinding, and veins popping on the sides of his head.
The Tzimisce tells himself, "S--Something's gotta give. It--It can't go on like this forever. It just can't." He starts up his vehicle and slams his foot on the accelerator, speeding away as fast as he can.
Back at his Haven, he finally parks the car, gets out, locks it up, and trudges his way into his modest place. Before retiring for the night, Dr. Collins calls someone on his landline phone.
After a short ring, Dr. Sarah, the Tzimisce dentist, picks up, "Hey, how are you doing?"
Dr. Collins replies, "It's been a long night, Sarah. I just wanted to uh...thank you for that $1500 you lent me."
The dentist responds, "No problem. Anything for the man in charge now. Speaking of, how was it?"
"Awful. Truth be told, I don't even know how anything gets done around here. It's like watching an ongoing train wreck, and there's nothing I can do about it except look on and feel helpless."
Dr. Sarah sighs, "Mm-hmm. Welcome to Flimont City's dark and nitty-gritty."
"Sometimes I think you'd have been a better pick for...this."
Dr. Sarah dismissively waves her hand, "Oh, please. Even if I was picked, 'no' would be my first and only response. That kind of position, or any position for that matter, has never been my thing. You're our best choice here."
Dr. Collins's expression tightens and he feels the burden of being a Primogen for his Clan already getting to him, "Why? You uh...got higher ambitions?"
The Tzimisce dentist laughs out loud, "Hahahahaha! No, I got my dental clinic- a whole lotta teeth around these parts need fixing, heh. Nuh-uh, it's not for me. But, you? You got your work cut out for ya and, as far as I'm concerned, you're our only hope of...never mind."
Dr. Collins presses, the desperation in his tone apparent, "Only hope of what? Don't leave me hanging here, Sarah. You know I need all the help I can get..."
Dr. Sarah lowers her voice, as if someone might be listening in, "You never do know who might be listening in on our conversations, right? Especially during times like these."
"Hmmm, good point. We should meet up again. We have a lot to talk about- you know, regarding things that can only be discussed in-person."
"I feel ya. Right now's not a great time. I got a few extractions and intensive root canals coming up. You got my number if anything happens. But, yeah, we should absolutely meet up and...talk. There's a lot we need to talk about."
Dr. Collins sighs deeply, "Understood. Talk to you soon. Have a good night, Sarah."
Dr. Sarah bids farewell to her fellow Stoker, and hangs up.
Dr. Collins puts the landline phone back on the receiver, pinches the bridge of his nose, and heads straight to his bathroom. He splashes his face with warm water, takes a quick shower, changes into a simple bathrobe and sits down on his comfy armchair.
He throws his head back, shuts his eyes, and tries to clear his mind of everything, but the sight of that young boy, barely alive, on that cracked sidewalk, is etched into his mind forever and ever.
A sharp mind like Dr. Collins is not gonna forget something like THAT anytime soon!
His only comfort, right now, is that he still has a lot of patients that need him and look forward to seeing him.
There's also the fact that people like Brock and Wesley depend on him and see him as some sort of role model (especially Wesley, who absolutely adores the doc and looks up to him as a mentor figure).
But, Dr. Collins is tired. So very tired and deeply frustrated with the way things are, but he can't, in good conscience, throw in the towel just yet. To do so would be a betrayal of his own Humanity.
He's needed, not only as a Tzimisce Primogen, but also as a doctor. No matter what, he's gotta stick around and try to do the best he can do within the limitations (be they imposed, personal, or arbitrary).
Chapter 8: Roxanne
The sun begins its ascent over the horizon of this Midwestern metropolis. The city is bathed in a sharp yellow glow and weather reports say it's gonna be a "hot one" for everyone out there for the next few weeks.
Cars roll on the roads, going back and forth. While the Unliving are taken in by the cold embrace of the day-sleep, the mortals get ready to face the day ahead- school, college, work, the mall, and so on.
Of course, a Ghoul like Brock still has all the privileges of being able to walk out in the sun, eat regular food, and drink a few shots of coffee without issue. It's just that he's pretty much bound by Blood to follow the will of his Domitor.
But, Dr. Collins is a good Domitor and has never ever been cruel for the past 7 years that they've been in this sanguine arrangement. The doctor vividly remembers the night that he was out for a drive when he saw a young man begging for scraps.
The Tzimisce didn't usually do house calls, but this patient, an elderly mortal lady, insisted on a visit. So, he went out there and was returning after attending to her. It was simple leg cramps, not too abnormal for a woman her age.
After running away from his crazy conservative parents, Brock lived as a drifter, and had that very night ran out of money and decided to end it all by standing on the train tracks near the city's outskirts.
Dr. Collins stopped his car and talked to this young man with a troubled past. The vampire offered to buy Mr. Davies a cheeseburger. At the diner, they spoke about length about...everything from current happenings, music, sex, life, and death. 1 hour became 2 and then 3.
They got into some interesting conversations about a great many things. Eventually, Brock found himself drinking the Blood of Dr. Collins 3 times. After that, the deal was pretty much sealed- a life of eternal servitude in exchange for life eternal (with a few dope bonuses thrown in there, too).
Back to where we left off...
Brock wakes up in Johnnie's bed, totally naked, a sheet covering his midsection, and his lover (at least for the night) spooning him, breathing against his neck. Their naked bodies are intertwined like some kind of organic knot.
1 of Brock's legs is over Johnnie's. Both men are still very much asleep. There's 2 used condoms in the dustbin- good.
The Ghoul wiggles around and Johnnie comes around. He groans, kisses the Ghoul, and rubs his face, "God-damn, last night was great! You really know how to, heh--you got good sucking skills, haha. How're you feeling? Everything...OK?" There's genuine concern in his voice. Brock likes that.
He replies, "I feel...I feel pretty good. And uh...you, whoa--"
He stops midsentence and gulps, "I think that's the hugest freaking cock I've ever seen! It's, um, uh--I'm gonna stop talking now." Brock's face goes red.
Johnnie simply smiles at his blushing date. He strokes Brock's cheek and pulls him in for another kiss, a deep kiss. One with tongue and lots of saliva. They kiss and kiss for a few minutes before Johnnie finally breaks it.
Johnnie shuffles out of his bed, stretches elaborately, and rubs his well-toned chest, "I gotta take a leak. Back in a bit!" He's as naked as a jaybird. Brock can't help but watch Johnnie's back as he goes to the bathroom, whistling merrily to himself.
He also watches the way the man's tight, well-sculpted ass wiggles when he walks.
Brock bites his lips and throws his head back on the fluffy pillows. He sees traces of sunlight coming through the venetian blinds. The Ghoul squints and reaches for his flip phone. His eyes widen when he sees the time.
Johnnie comes out, still naked, his massive dong flapping about when he walks. He sits on the edge of the bed and playfully tickles Brock's feet.
Brock giggles and squeals, "Oh! Oh! No! Stop--haha! I can't--no! Oh, oh my God. This is just...wow, wow, OK. Heh."
Brock steals another glance at his date's wang. Johnnie notices the look and smirks, "They don't call me 'Long Dick Johnnie' for nothing, haha!"
The Ghoul points and remarks, "With that, you could get into porn. You ever uh...consider it?"
Johnnie shrugs plainly, "Sure. But I can only get it up for hot guys like you. Besides, my mom's not too crazy about...my, shall we say, choices, yeah. But, enough about my issues with my mom. I think we spent way too long talking about HER last night, haha!"
Brock sighs and bites his lower lip, "I got...classes to attend, man. I--I mean, I'd love to skip 'em and just spend the whole day with you and all, but I'm really serious about this whole plastic surgeon thing, y'know."
Johnnie smiles and strokes Brock's hair, "Yeah, you told me as much. You think we'll be able to do this again?" The desire and longing in his tone of voice is pretty clear. He hopes that they'll be able to see each other (naked) again, and soon.
Brock nods, "Sure, sure. I--I don't see why we have to hide. I mean, it's not like what we're both doing is...y'know, I'm just--well, it's kinda hard to meet hot guys here in the city, but, I--I'll try."
Johnnie leans forward and plants his lips on Brock's quivering lips, "Good. That's all I needed to hear, handsome." He has a look of pure longing in his eyes.
Brock gets lost in those deep brown eyes and responds without much thinking, "Y--Yeah, I'd...I'd love to do this again, haha!"
Johnnie thanks Brock for the condoms, "And good call on the condoms, too."
"Thanks."
Johnnie takes Brock by the hand and leads him back into the bathroom.
The Ghoul's eyes go wide and his breath hitches as Johnnie goes to his knees and wraps his lips around Brock's cock. Brock tries not to let his knees buckle under this new sensation, and he does his best to remain on his feet.
"Oh...oh, oh--oh, god..."
All's well that happily ends well. After the quickie with the hottie is over, Brock and Johnnie share a warm and intimate shower. Brock doesn't really want to leave, but he also knows that his future as a plastic surgeon depends on his academic success and performance, so...chop-chop.
He has to get dressed, have a quick breakfast (Johnnie has eggs and coffee, Brock opts for 6 pieces of plain and crispy toast), and take his leave.
On the way out, the 2 men kiss. It's a brief kiss, but full of promise of what might come (heh) in the future.
Johnnie doesn't wanna let go, but he has to. He puts on his gas station attendant uniform (a blue polyester shirt, with matching trousers and black sneakers) and heads off to work.
As for Brock, he gets back to campus and meets with his friends. The morning passes on pretty quickly with lectures, presentations, and other such things taking up most of his time.
Elsewhere...
Luciano is still in bed when a flashback haunts him. He was just 8-years-old when he heard the stern and deep voice of his dad summoning him to his office.
The little Luciano Junior meandered over to papa's big office, with wooden flooring, an antique oak desk, a swivel chair, several leather armchairs, and a huge fireplace with a painting of a fierce-looking soldier hanging above it.
The Donovan patriarch is smoking a fat cigar while looking through some important papers.
The elder Mr. Donovan sternly told his son, "You're a Donovan."
The little kid looks around, innocent and wide-eyed, a far-cry from what he is today.
Luciano Sr. paces a tight circle and blows some cigar smoke high up in the air. He continues, "And what does that mean?"
Luciano Jr. timidly regurgitates, "It means we're special, daddy."
"Exactly. It means we're...special." The menace in his voice is apparent.
Little Luciano looks up at his dad and points at the cigar, "Daddy? Didn't you pinky-promise mommy that you were going to quit smo-king?"
Luciano Sr. scoffs, "Your mother doesn't pay for your education. Hell, that fucking woman can barely afford to put food on her own table and clothes on your back! I DO EVERYTHING!"
Young Luciano gasps and takes a few steps back, "D--Don't swear in front of me, daddy. And mommy works so hard. Her paintings are nice and beautiful!"
Luciano Sr. looks down on his offspring with a mix of contempt and disgust, "'Her paintings are nice and beautiful'. That's rich coming from you, boy. Do you really think we need or WANT another fucking starving artist in the family?"
"But daddy!"
The father holds a hand up and silences his son. He turns around and looks at a portrait of himself that he had commissioned a while back- he was supposed to be in the damn labor and delivery room.
Instead, the son of a bitch was getting his portrait done by a renowned artist from some remote island. He's got a smug, shit-eating smirk plastered on his face. Luciano Junior's mom was in the hospital room, screaming and squeezing out the so-called "family legacy".
Young Luciano asks his father, "Daddy? Who's that man in the p--painting?"
Luciano Senior is taken aback by that innocent query and rudely answers, "It's me, you dumb little runt. Don't they teach you anything at school? I spend $24,000 a year so you can get an education and make something of yourself!"
Luciano Sr. turns to his son and grabs his small chin with a touch that's anything but gentle. He leans closer and firmly tells the boy, "I want you to stop playing with that girl..."
Luciano Jr. blinks, "Which girl?"
Luciano Sr. sneers, "That black one." The venom in his voice when uttering those words is clear as day.
"But why?"
Luciano Senior tightly grips the young boy's shoulders and glares daggers, "Because I fucking said so, damnit!"
Luciano Jr. presses, "But why? She's my age and she's nice and likes the things that I like--"
Luciano Sr. growls and angrily spits, "There's no such thing as a nice nigger! They're all goddamn lazy thieves and criminals! It's just how they are. Now, are you gonna go back to your room and do your homework?! I don't want another call from your teacher."
Young Luciano tears up and starts to sob. The sound of his soft weeping angers Luciano Sr.
The father is about to backhand his son, when the mom barges in and explodes at the father of her child, "ENOUGH! Don't you dare...don't you dare touch my boy!"
Luciano Senior tosses his cigar in an ashtray and takes a few menacing steps towards the mother of his child (they never got married because that'd mean LD Senior would have to sign prenups and ain't no way is the man parting with a cent of his ill-gotten gains).
"Who are YOU to talk back to ME in my own FUCKING HOME in front of MY FUCKING SON?!"
Luciano Junior's mom, Jennifer Hearst, gulps and takes a few steps back, "Don--don't tell him who he can and can't play with, OK?"
Luciano Sr. counters, "Eavesdropping on a conversation between a man and his son, huh? Do YOU pay his fees every year, did YOU pay for his textbooks, his ride to and from school, his sports equipment, and all the rest? NO, you DIDN'T. You didn't! I DID!"
Luciano Jr. is quietly sobbing, eyes red, and cheeks flushed. Jennifer Hearst gently tells her son to go up to his room and play. The young child runs out, but before leaving he steals a look at his mom.
Those little, innocent eyes were once filled with terror. There's even a small stain near the little boy's crotch area. It was tragically inevitable that he slightly wet himself upon seeing the terror and horror of his father.
Jennifer looks up at the towering Luciano Senior, "Luc--look, let's...talk this out." She offers him a small smile. It's a weak smile, one filled with fear, apprehension, and worry.
Luciano Senior just stares at this woman. A look of contempt is evident in his cold, steely eyes. He lights up another cigar and Luciano Jr. wasn't around to hear what happened next.
Either way, that is how an innocent mind is slowly but surely poisoned with hate (and other unpleasant things).
Back to the here-and-now...
Luciano sits up and holds his throbbing head. A loud sigh leaves his lips and the sound of the phone ringing breaks the silence in his lavish and luxurious home. He's groggy, but manages to stumble his way to the receiver, "Yes?"
The person on the other line is coughing and wheezing profusely. LDJ grimaces, "Who the fuck is this? Listen, ya sick freak--"
Gordon's coughing subsides, his voice harsher than usual, "It's me, kid. Calm down."
LDJ sighs, "Jesus, Gordon. I thought it was some nasty-ass bum trying to crank call me. You dunno how many of those I get in a week!"
The Pym Reaper coughs a few more times, "I forgot to remind you of something."
"Hmph, what?"
"Wire me 20 grand. I assume you've bothered to read yesterday's news?"
"Yeah, so uh...they uh...whacked that clown, huh?"
"The less that's spoken about it over the phone, the better. But, yes...that should no longer be a problem for you and your father going forward."
LDJ pinches his forehead with his fingers and exhales, "Sure, sure, I'll get to it. So, how's the other thing going?"
Gordo answers, "I'm driving to Greenridge soon. Don't worry, if there's dirt on Markham Reed, I'll dig it all up and drag it out into the open, kicking and screaming if I have to." Sheer grit and determination laces his words.
LDJ lifts his eyebrows and yawns, "Hmmmmph. Yeah, cool, cool. The Pym Reaper is um...Reaping, huh? Anything else you wanna bother me about?"
"Don't do anything stupid until I come back. And even then, don't. Also, call your dad, I'm sure he'll be pleased to know that his son is finally moving up in the world."
Luciano Jr. growls, "Grrr. Enough about my old man. He's got my number and he can call ME when he isn't too busy slamming every chick and broad he comes across."
Gordo wheezes a bit more, "That's your problem, kid, not mine. I don't get paid to give a damn about any of that. Call him."
Luciano fakes some static noise with his mouth, "Uh-oh! Bad connection, Gordo, I uh--oh! I gotta go! Oh, oh, oh! Call ya later! Woops!!"
LDJ slams the receiver on the wall, and chuckles to himself, "Heh, works every time."
He massages the sides of his face and looks around his luxurious place. He looks down and sees that his boxers are on backwards. He groans and quickly takes it off, leaving him totally naked.
He climbs back into his bed and stroke's Angie's frizzy hair. He called her over for some "fun times" last night.
Luciano thinks to himself, "She's so damn hot...but a little annoying. Oh, well, can't win 'em all."
Angie snuggles closer to LDJ's bare chest and sleepily utters, "Oh, yeah, oh Luciano baby...hmmmm."
Luciano bites his lip and pulls the covers off Angie. He tries to get "it" up by smacking it a few times. When sufficiently erect, he inserts his cock into Angie's ass and begins thrusting in and out.
Angie's eyes roll to the back of her head and she begins moaning, "Yes, yes! OHHHH, oh, Luciano, yesss!! Ha--harder!"
There's nobody else around to hear the slaps and squishes, the moans and groans, and such. LDJ hugs her from behind and continues banging away. It goes on and on, until...well, you know.
He groans and whispers against the side of her neck, "Yeah, yeah...oh, fuck! Damn!"
Angie sits up in the bed, her hair a tangled mess, her lipstick smudged, she rubs her eyes and sees Luciano stepping outside his bedroom, fully naked, his dong on display.
She joins him on the balcony and puts her hands around his waist. She playfully sways back and forth and hums some nameless tune, "Hey, big boy."
"Hey, my black beauty."
She puts a finger on Luciano's lips, "Mm-hmm. Don't talk, let's just enjoy this morning and--oh! It's a beautiful sight, isn't it, baby?" she does a lazy gesture to the city below them.
LDJ breathes in and out, "I own this city. I am this city."
Angie chuckles and rests her head against LDJ's bare back, "I'm sure you do, baby."
LDJ proceeds with his daily affirmations, "I'm Luciano-fucking-Donovan and I am the law, I am IT! I'm the most powerful and richest fucking man in the city."
Angie shuts her eyes and continues with her gentle swaying, "Mmmmm."
Luciano pounds his chest like a gorilla, grunts a few times, and snorts like a wild boar, "I am this fucking city! I own this city! It's all MINE! This is MY goddamn city, MINE!"
Angie continues humming some random song, ignoring LDJ's craziness.
He gets all gung-ho and flaps his arms like a bird, "This is MY CITY! MY PLAYGROUND! Angie, Angie!"
She idly hums and keeps her head rested on Luciano's back, "What is it, baby?"
LDJ responds, "I feel so fuckin' hard right now, like rocks."
"But we just--"
Luciano might've popped 1 Viagra too many last night, and he's pretty much a guy with no sense of when enough is enough, "I--I want it! I want it again! Get on your knees!"
Angie obliges and gets down on her knees, "Like this?" she has a wry look on her face.
"Exactly!" LDJ prepares to insert his erect cock into Angie's open mouth. So, she gives him another sloppy blowjob out on the balcony. Luciano interlocks his fingers behind his forehead and wears the smuggest look a buster like him can possibly wear.
He continues screaming at the top of his lungs, "YEAH, SUCK IT! SUCK THAT DONOVAN COCK! OH, YESSS! TAKE THAT FUCKIN' SALAMI DOWN YOUR BRACIOLE!"
Yep.
Some time later...
Angie has finished taking a nice, hot shower. The steamy water feels great on her skin. She's in a nice white towel and walks towards the room. She finds LDJ laying on his bed, his TV blaring, and the smell of Cheetos permeating the air.
There's a few empty bags carelessly discarded on the floor.
She coughs a few times and approaches, "Uh...Luciano, babe, what--what do you plan on doing today?"
Luciano sits up and stuffs his mouth with some more Cheetos. He chews with his mouth open and speaks, "Dunno yet. Maybe, um, well...shit, I dunno. There's no rush." He takes a swig from a bottle of Mountain Dew.
Angie bites her lip and pouts, "Oh, OK. What about a drive around town? You wanna um, maybe do something and go somewhere nice? You, me, and...it's been a few weeks since we've been out anywhere." There's a pleading look in her eyes.
Luciano clicks his tongue and declines, "Naaah, I'd prefer to stay home, watch TV, and get my dick sucked every now and then."
Angie shoves him, "You always want that, and I always say 'yes'. But what about what I like to do with you, hmm? You promised you'd go down on me last night--"
Luciano places his Cheeto dust-ridden finger on Angie's lips and gently shushes, "Shhh, shhh. Look, I'm a busy man, you don't know what it's like. We both have...things we gotta do."
Angie retorts, "I literally work 2 jobs, don't tell me YOU know what being 'busy' is like..."
LDJ replies, "Pfft, please. Don't bring this up again, OK? Just drop it. Speaking of, have you considered my offer?"
Angie folds her arms, "I'm not interested in selling, alright? Not everything has a price tag."
LDJ scoffs at that, "Then it's an invisible one...I just gotta shake enough money in front of it to reveal what you really want. Hah."
Angie puts her hands on her hips and lets out a deep sigh, "That's...OK, whatever. Just don't talk about me like that, OK? Just cuz I don't live in some fancy place don't mean I'm some kinda hoe to be thrown around, OK?"
Luciano mumbles, "Well, I mean, you're black and well--"
Yikes.
Angie narrows her eyes and shoots a sideways look at Luciano, "What...what does that have to do with anything? Don't go there, don't even go there. I don't need that kind of shit from rich white boys like you."
LDJ ignores that and continues, "And I mean, c'mon, you're not exactly a nun."
Angie pinches her nose and rolls her eyes, "That's my personal business, babe. Hmph, damnit. But, whatever. We both got needs, don't we? Look, just...never mind."
LDJ puts his hands on her shoulders and looks deep into her eyes, "No, no, what is it? C'mon, Angelique, tell me. You need some more money for your uh...who was it again?"
Angelique sighs, "My aunt's hip replacement surgery. If you cared, you'd remember something as simple as that."
Luciano rubs the sides of her neck and utters in a sweet-sounding tone, "Ah, you know I care, baby. But, uh...it's difficult. Sometimes, I find thinking and remembering things is hard for me."
He hands Angie some dollar bills, "There. Is that enough? I think that's enough. Should cover it. Hm?" he playfully wiggles his eyebrows at her.
Angie angrily tosses the money aside and begins to tear up, "Y--You--You still seeing that Sophie bitch? What, am I not--not good enough for you? Or is it the other way around and--and you can't--c--can't give her up for me?! What?! TELL ME, DAMNIT! Don't just lead me on like this!"
She sniffles a few times, stray tears rolling down her right cheek, and then quickly wipes it all away with the back of her hand, "I mean...it's cool and all that we're...seeing each other, but you PROMISED me that you'd cut things off with her..." her tone is filled with desperation and sadness.
Luciano shakes his head, "Look, a Donovan is as good as his word, alright? Yeah, I uh...totally broke things off with Sophie. Totally." He says this so insincerely that one wonders how much self-awareness this man truly possesses.
Angie picks up on his obvious BS, "Then, why don't I believe you, huh? Why do you sound so--so insincere whenever you talk about breaking things off with that bitch?"
Luciano sharply exhales and pinches the bridge of his nose, "Look, it's just, well...I'll break things up right now." He says the last part in a barely audible tone.
Angie narrows an eye and points to her ear, "Speak up."
LDJ clicks his tongue, feeling mildly annoyed, "I said I'll break things off with her right now."
Angie firmly gives him an ultimatum, "I ain't playin' around here, Luciano. If you wanna be with me, you gotta at least put the time in to making our relationship work, OK?!" she pokes LDJ on his bare chest. Her tone is firm and serious.
There's a hint of annoyance and desperation in there, too. Angie feels like she's being treated like some sorta booty call by LDJ and nothing more.
LDJ cracks a small smile and rubs the base of his neck, "Yeah, yeah, sure. I'll uh...do it r--right now."
Angie lifts her chin and puts her hands on her hips. She nods over to the flip phone on the nightstand and says, "Well, go on."
Luciano sighs, picks up his flip phone, and begins dialing. Angie is standing opposite him, glowering daggers. It rings a few times before a man's voice answers, "Paul Cho speaking."
It's not on speaker. Luciano bites his lip and begins, "Hey, Sophie!"
Paul's face scrunches in confusion, "Huh?"
Luciano paces and goes on, "Yeah, we're done, Sophie?! OK, Sophie?! We're done! I--I like Angie more than I like you--"
"What the fuck, man?!"
LDJ keeps up this charade, "Yeah, you fuckin' heard me, Sophie! WE. ARE. DONE!"
Paul picks up on what's happening, "Whoa, oh, shit, um...the other chick's in the room with you right now? That's cold, man, real cold."
Luciano pretend-scoffs, "Pfft! I don't wanna hear your crying, alright?! Lose my number. Now, I'm gonna and get my big dick sucked on by a REAL PRINCESS!"
Angie's expression is firm and serious as she silently watches the spectacle unfold. Her arms are tightly crossed over her chest and she's tapping her foot. She doesn't look too pleased, but also hopes that Luciano is at least trying.
He is, kinda, sorta. In a very Donovan way.
Paul Cho shakes his head and rolls his eyes, "You're fucking crazy, man. You--you're not, like, actually gonna breakup with royalty like Sophie for--for some nobody, right?"
Luciano answers, "No, of course not." He quickly catches himself and barks, "DAMNIT, Sophie! Stop fucking crying, it's pathetic. Go and find someone else, cuz this king has got himself a new queen- a black queen."
Sheesh.
The initial skepticism slowly fades away from Angie's face, but hints of it still linger. Paul Cho can only shake his head and sigh.
LDJ clicks his tongue, hangs up, and smirks at Angie. She just looks at him with a stern, disapproving gaze.
He holds his arms out and says, "Ta-da! Done."
Angie puts a finger on her chin and tilts her head to the side, "Hmmmm. I'll be the judge of that. This is your last warning, Luciano Donovan Junior. If I ever catch your ass gettin' freaky with someone else, we breakin' things off, alright?"
"Mmm-hmm. Now, come on over here..."
Angelique shakes her head and wags her finger, "Nuh-uh. I think I've given you enough for sometime. You have hands, use 'em. I gotta get dressed and head to work, y'know, something I have to do. Something I have to do every day."
She succinctly adds, "Something that doesn't involve laying around and watching cartoons, makin' phone calls, and eating Cheetos all day." She picks up the dollar bills and shoves them into her purse.
Luciano looks down and sighs, "Fine. Um...how's work, by the way?"
"Terrible." Angie works at the front desk of a rental car company. Her 2nd job involves her being a part-time dishwasher at a Mexican restaurant.
Luciano offers, "Uh...sorry to hear that. You need some extra cash?"
Angie mumbles, "Who doesn't. Nah, you keep your cash, boy. Just be a good boyfriend. Just cuz you're named after your dad don't mean you gotta be like him, baby- you got a chance to turn things around, be different, y'know?"
She adds, "I can't keep living like this, y'know? We both have to put in the time and effort towards making this relationship work out. We can do it, baby. Just...don't blow it, alright?" she kisses Luciano on his lips and goes to get dressed.
Miss Angelique has got a long day ahead of her. Before leaving, she looks over her shoulder and softly says, "And, please, Luciano. Get this place cleaned up, alright? All those nasty-ass wrappers you got lying around ain't good for your health, babe." She waves goodbye and takes her leave.
Luciano Junior has a lot of thinking to do...but he's not gonna do any of that. He goes back to eating more Cheetos, drinking more Mountain Dew, and watching cartoons. He's got no intention of cleaning his home.
Nope, he'll just call the pros, pay them to clean it up. Easy-peasy. That's how Luciano Donovan Junior does things, and he's not about to change anytime soon. Besides, he's a busy man with a busy schedule.
Approximately 80% of his "busy" schedule involves doing very little. But he's got appearances to keep up. 10% of his busy schedule involves banging, boozing, partying, and such. The remaining 10% consists of "family business".
It's Mauve who does all the hard work, while Luciano and Paul sit back and reap the bountiful benefits.
For now, LDJ picks up his phone and dials a number. After many rings, a man's gruff voice answers, "Mike Winters, Worbo's Professional Cleaning Services. How may I help you?"
"Hey, it's me, Luciano, yeah, that one. Hmm, Donovan, yeah. Listen, I need someone to come over and give my joint a good scrub-a-dub-dub, alright? Yeah, same address. Just bill me later, alright?"
Mr. Winters says, "Sure, sure, Mr. Luciano. You know we got your back. Always." The voice on the other end sounds resigned, like this is a regular thing. And it is, but it is still a VERY lucrative thing nonetheless.
Whenever LDJ calls, Mr. Winters sees dollar signs flashing in front of his eyes.
Mike proceeds to call Diana. She picks up almost immediately. She finishes chewing the last of her waffle and says, "Yeah?"
Mike answers, "Hey, toots, it's me. Get your ass over to Luciano's place. Donovan, not the other one. He needs a deep cleaning ASAP."
Diana sighs and rubs her forehead, "Fine, fine. Him again, sure, sure. Uh...sure thing, boss. And, regarding what we discussed last time?"
Mr. Winters snaps at her, "You'll get your fucking raise when I get my fucking shit in order! Now, get going, 'girl'!" he hangs up the phone and Diana slumps back against her chair.
She pouts and whines, "Ugggghhhhh. But I was hoping for that raise soon..."
She gets up, tosses some money on her table, and heads out the door. Her usual van is waiting under the hot sun. She groans and climbs into the vehicle. The heat of the city is unbearable this time of year.
The drive over to Luciano's place is a short one, but it's long enough for Diana to consider how she got here in the first place. For now, she just focuses on the road.
She blares some old-school tunes on the radio and sings along to their tunes as best as she can.
At a traffic stop, she pokes the stuffed animal that dangles from her rearview mirror, "So, Jerry? Ready to go to Mr. Donovan's place again?"
The stuffed lion doesn't respond. It simply hangs there. The only sound that can be heard is the gentle hum of the engine and the tunes of whatever's playing on the radio.
Diana chuckles to herself and says, "Heheh, yeah. You're always ready, huh?" she pats the lion on its head and begins driving off again. The traffic light turns green and the street is filled with honking cars and people crossing the road.
"God, this city..." Diana mutters to herself as she drives past another building that's been marked for demolition. A lot of people are worried about their livelihoods and what remains of the social infrastructure. The city is changing, and not necessarily for the better.
The old man sitting on a bench nearby, a cigarette between his lips, and a cup filled with loose change at his feet, thinks of many things. He looks around and Diana stops her van. She reaches into her back pocket and drops some spare change in the cup.
The man nods his head in thanks, "God--god bless you, miss."
Diana tightly smiles at him and drives off.
On the way, she tells her stuffed "companion" (for lack of any better terms), "You know, last time I went, Luciano was acting like a real creep towards me. I mean, I wanted him off my back, so I told him I'm...y'know, right?"
"..."
Diana sighs, takes a sharp left, eases her foot off the accelerator, and continues, "I know, I know, I risk a lot by telling people, but sometimes you do it just so you can get 'em off you. Especially the creepy guys. Oh, boy, the looks on their faces when I tell 'em. Price-less, heh. But, kinda sad, too."
She laughs and gently pats the lion on its head. The van is filled with more songs, more traffic stops, more honking horns, and the like.
The scrappy lion, Jerry, doesn't say much of anything. But he does listen to Diana when she feels like talking, which is pretty much always. It's kinda therapeutic in that regard, but is no substitute for the real thing.
Then again, on her current pay, Diana would have to work like a horse on speed to be able to afford a therapist.
She tells herself that she's got a handle on things, even if they're starting to get a little out of control. She tells herself that she'll cut down on other stuff if things get truly bleak.
Diana tries to convince herself that all will be well, but in a city as cruel as this one, that's a tall order.
She arrives, puts up with snide and other distasteful comments from LDJ, gets her stuff and begins cleaning this man-child's pad. The first thing she does is open a window or 2 to let some fresh air in.
It takes her the whole day. She asks if she can go for a lunchbreak, to which Luciano says no. He demands that she stay put and clean every nook and cranny. Diana begrudgingly obliges and cleans until her hands are raw.
A few hours later, the job is finally done. Luciano tips her abysmally and kicks her out of his place. She curses and mumbles under her breath about how much of a jackass he is and how much she wants to choke him with his own entrails.
One can't blame her for having such dark thoughts.
In time, afternoon gives way to evening. Diana stops for a quick snack. Mike calls back and tells her to go to a few more places and do some deep cleaning. Diana groans and makes other tired noises, but she pushes on because she badly needs the money.
Her rent's due and the landlord has given her a final warning- either pay up on or before the due date, or else he'll evict her.
For reasons that will soon become apparent, her parents (and extended family) have turned their backs on her and even gone so far as to completely cut her off from their lives.
Diana sighs, eats her humble meal (spicy tacos) in silence, and drives off into the evening.
She works a few more jobs and calls it a day. She's exhausted, but she has to keep going. She drives past a few billboards with pictures of incredibly beautiful women on them. Diana strokes her cheek and wistfully asks no one in particular, "Will I ever be as beautiful and nice-looking as her?"
Elsewhere...
Markham awakens from his day-long slumber. His limbs feel tight and he stretches them a few times. He helps himself up with a shaky groan and blinks the day-sleep away.
He groans and rubs the bridge of his nose. His eyes are sore and dry. He trudges upstairs and sees Diego walking out of the bathroom, a towel wrapped around his waist.
"Eyyy, what's good, devil man? Sleep well?"
Markham weakly nods, "Mm-hmm. How about you?"
The Gangrel shrugs and grins, "Ah, yeah, totally, homes. Totally. So, what's our plan for tonight, huh?"
"I'd like to shower first. After that, I was hoping to get some work done. Then, I'll need to find Roxanne at that motel. It shouldn't be too difficult. If I could get a picture of her, it'd be all the better."
Diego nods, "A'ight, a'ight. I can help you with that. Yeah, absolutely. I dunno about no picture, but eh, we'll try." He walks off to go and get dressed for the night ahead.
Markham enters the spare bathroom in this Feral's Haven. He undresses, throws all his clothes in a nearby laundry basket, and steps into the shower.
He turns the hot water on and lets the steamy water wash away all the tightness in and around his naked vampiric body. He thinks back on how much has changed since he first arrived in this city a few nights back.
There was once a time when he might have had a promising career as a freaking football player. There was also a time when he had a nice family, his older sister in particular. Now, he's here, far away from it all.
He lowers his head and permits the warm water to cascade down his back. He shuts his eyes and sighs deeply. Markham tries to find solace in this simple act of cleansing.
Once he's done, he steps out of the shower and dries himself off. He wraps the towel around his waist and goes back to the room to put on some fresh clothes.
He decides to wear that aloha shirt that his Touchstone, Jamie, got for him last Christmas. He slips into a pair of black pleated pants, puts on some gray socks, and slides his feet into some dark leather loafers.
The Baali also sprays some deodorant. He spritzes a bit of cheap cologne on himself and rubs his hands together. He finally combs his chin-length hair and ruffles it a few times.
Once ready, he heads upstairs and finds Diego nudging his nose against Marisol's. Markham awkwardly clears his throat and asks, "Uh, Diego...you ready?"
Marisol momentarily shoots a dirty look at the Baali for interrupting this precious moment, but she quickly buttons the top buttons of her shirt, fixes her hair, and prepares to head for work.
Diego grins sheepishly, "Haha, yeah, I'm all ready, homes. So, what's our plan, huh? Wanna go get some 'chow' before we uh, y'know, hit the streets?"
Markham nods, "Sure, sure." He says bye to Marisol and thanks her for all her help.
Marisol lazily waves, mumbles something, grabs her stuff, and scoots off.
Diego tells his guest, "Like I said, she's gonna need time to adjust to having you around."
Markham respectfully nods, "I understand. If it ever gets too much, just tell me, and I'll be out. I don't wanna cause any trouble, draw any unwanted attention, or make any waves."
Diego puts his hands in his pockets and shrugs, "Nah, man, no sweat. I--It'll be fine, bro. Now, c'mon, lemme show you another place full of warm necks to bite into, huh?"
"Hm, sure."
The 2 Kindred get in the pickup truck. Diego starts it up and drives to some freaking abandoned shop. The place around it looks like a ghost town. A few plastic bags are blown around by the winds.
The streetlights have stopped working ages ago, and the authorities simply cannot be bothered to fix them. There are a few signs that this was once a lively strip mall.
Diego turns the car off and looks over to Markham, "Alright, bro, listen. Just follow me. I know where the GOOD blood is, OK?"
Markham nods and the 2 head for this shady-looking place. The Gangrel knows exactly where to go.
As they're slowly walking, a few teenagers on skateboards ride past them. They show off a few tricks for the entertainment of the 2 Kindred. 1 of them even stops and says to Diego, "Yo, what's good?"
Diego smiles and fistbumps with the kid, "Ayyy, what's up, homie? You good, lil bro? Staying out of trouble, right?"
The kid nods his head and nods, "'Course I am! Just make sure you get that community center all fixed up. A lotta kids around here are looking forward to it, y'know? It'd be like a--a home for some of us."
Diego winks at the kid and ruffles his hair, "A'ight, a'ight. We're working on it. I know you got my back, and I got yours, right?"
"Hell, yeah!"
The kid skates off to join his friends.
Markham inquires, "Who was that?"
The Outlander answers, "Local orphan kid. He and his friends used to hang out on the streets. They never did anything bad, but the cops always found a reason to pick on them. Pendejos."
He sighs, "But there's still a lot more that we can do for them, man. I just know that we can, and should, be doing a lot more for these kids, man!" there's frustration and determination in his voice.
Markham agrees, "Yeah, I see what you mean."
Diego shrugs, "Sure, you do. C'mon, this way. Stay close and avoid anyone who looks tiny...we don't bite into no kids, right?"
"Of course."
The walls (or what remains of them) are covered with graffiti. The doors look like they were blown and ripped open ages ago. There are some empty beer cans scattered on the floor and there's also the smell of piss and other stuff.
There are a few signs of life around- used needles, discarded OxyContin pill bottles, broken glass bottles, old-ass newspapers, and so forth.
Markham follows Diego deeper into this shop. They find themselves in what appears to be the front of the store. The place is covered in filth, grime, and mold. There's an old stall that was probably used as a makeshift bed for some poor homeless person.
Parts of the floor are carpeted, whilst others are littered with trash, dirt, and other things.
Diego quietly whispers to Markham, "Stay quiet. If we bump into someone, let me handle it. You're not exactly the best at talking to folks, right?"
Markham mumbles, "Hm. Right..."
Diego tells the Baali to wait while he goes and does his thing. Markham quietly waits and thinks of the night ahead.
Eventually, the Gangrel returns with 2 ordinary-looking women. Both of them have baggy eyes, worn-out faces, and seem very tired. They look like they haven't eaten or slept in days.
Markham looks at Diego for an explanation. Is this a Masquerade breach waiting to happen?
The Outlander quickly explains, "They're into this, man. As long as we don't take too much, they'll let us. Don't worry about it. It's a...mutually beneficial arrangement."
Markham blinks and looks from Diego to the 2 women. He awkwardly scratches the back of his neck and says, "I see..."
1 of the women offers Markham her wrist, her eyes filled with an unnatural longing for the Kiss, "Please, I--I need that...that feeling again. That euphoria, that...high." Her words are almost slurred and she sounds almost spaced-out.
The other woman moves her hair aside and tilts her neck back, "Here, please, bite here. This is where I REALLY like it." She's looking up at the ceiling, her eyes are glazed over, and she seems almost entranced.
Markham exchanges a quick glance with Diego, who simply shrugs and nods his head.
The Baali bites into the woman's wrist, and she moans and groans like she's having some kinda weird sex. His sharp fangs pierce her skin and blood begins to trickle.
Diego goes for the other chick's neck. She holds onto him as he sates his inner Beast. Once done, he pulls away and flashes a quick smile at her.
Markham, on the other hand, continues. Something within him compels him to keep drinking. Diego's eyes widen and he quickly yanks the Demon away from his meal, "Dude, dude! Enough, man, you're gonna kill her!" he angrily snaps at Markham.
The woman that Markham was feeding on collapses. Markham is left in a sort of daze. It's almost like he was entranced and about to lose control and drain that poor woman dry.
He stands there, wordless. Blood flows down his chin. The woman is slumped against the wall, a dreamy and serene expression on her face. She's breathing heavily, and her eyelids flutter. The other woman is slumped on the ground, too.
Diego quickly checks on them. He also licks the wound shut and asks Markham to do the same.
The Baali slowly crouches down, takes the woman's wrist and runs the tip of his tongue along her soft flesh. A few beads of sweat trickle down her forehead. She's still breathing, albeit barely. Her eyelids continue to flutter, and her mouth is partially open.
Diego sighs in relief, "Whew, close call. What--what happened there, hmm?" he gestures to Markham's "prey" with his head.
Markham swallows hard and licks the last of the blood from his lips, "I--I'm not sure. I think...something within me wanted to...finish her off."
The woman that Markham fed from groans and rises up. She helps her friend up and catches herself. She takes a few deep breaths and cups Markham's cold cheek in her hand.
She looks at him with a certain sense of desire and longing. Markham feels a bit uncomfortable by this, and he backs away. He feels the Beast within him stir, and the Beast's eternal lust for blood. But, it also hungers for...something else. He's not quite sure what.
Diego shakes his head and waves his finger at the 2 women, "That's enough, ladies."
The 2 ladies sigh and shrug.
Markham furrows his brows and directly asks, "You...know what we are? You're into this stuff?"
The woman that Diego fed from answers, her tone almost reverential, "We've known about you...for a while now. And yes, we are very much 'into it'. We...we need the release."
The other woman concurs with a firm nod. She also flashes a cheeky smile at Markham and compliments him, "I like your shirt, mister. It's good to see a vampire with good fashion taste, and not some generic run-of-the-mill Dracula-brooding-in-his-castle-trash. Ech, yuck."
The Gangrel chuckles at that and looks over to Markham, "Ain't no harm. Like I said, they're cool. It's a win-win, see? You get food, they get some...release, yeah, heh."
Markham raises his eyebrows and doesn't say much else. He simply waves goodbye to the 2 mortals and heads off with Diego.
It is true that there are many who are addicted to the Kiss (flowery name for vampire biting into you) and simply can't get enough of it, so they chase after hungry Kindred.
At times, their desire matches the insatiable sanguine desires of the Beast within. Of course, there's always a chance of a Masquerade breach, but these mortals are not the stupid, snitching kind anyway.
The Gangrel takes a walk around this decrepit place. He kicks a few cans around and does a wide, sweeping gesture, "This place, man, it's like...urban decay personified, you know what I mean?"
Markham puts his hands in his pant pockets and looks around, "Mm-hmm. I understand." It's a depressing sight, especially at night. It's a far cry from the bright lights, clean streets, and towering buildings that Markham is used to back in his city.
Diego points out to a boarded-up store, "I remember when this place was a thriving business- antiques. I remember Marisol wanted something from here, but money was and still is tight. Damn."
"What did she want?"
"Ehhh, some antique clock." With that, Diego looks around and decides to enter this store through a busted window. He steps over some glass shards and Markham follows. There's not much inside- just some old furniture, a few boxes, and a lot of dust.
Markham takes a look around, but his eyes soon fall on Diego. He sees the Gangrel approach this old-looking clock. It's caked in dust, covered in cobwebs, and is just about 1 step away from falling apart.
The Baali asks, "Should we really be in here?"
Diego responds, "Well, you followed me in, heh. Just thought I'd take a look, see what's left in this place." He blows some dust off the clock and coughs a few times.
The Feral queries, "Hey, vato? You think anyone'll notice if I err...borrow this clock over here?"
Markham pointedly answers, "Who? But, are you sure Marisol wants a broken one like that?"
"It's not completely broken, bro," Diego carefully wipes more dust away and inspects the old timepiece. He gently taps it and it begins ticking again, albeit slowly and almost imperceptibly.
Markham shrugs, "If you say so. Someone as hard-working as her does deserve something nice every now and then."
Diego softly chuckles at that, "Yeah, she...really works hard, man. She really does. Y'know what, I'm taking it. Just to keep my conscience clear, I'll leave some money where the clock was."
"Suit yourself."
Diego pulls some money out of his wallet and leaves it on the dust-free space where the clock once was.
The Baali and the Outlander quietly leave the place. Once outside, Diego rubs his nose and asks, "So, what's our next move, huh?"
"I have some investigating to do. You can help, or I can do this alone. Also, I need to know more about a place."
Diego carries his clock to the pickup truck, "You seem like the working-alone type, heh. Sure, what do you need to know?"
"You know a place called Sunnyvale?"
The Gangrel wolf-whistles, "Damn, homes. That's a Gringo neighborhood. Why, you thinking of moving to this place and settling down?"
"No."
Diego nervously chuckles and rubs the base of his neck, "Yeah, I know that place. Busters like me don't normally go there. The last time I was passing through, some old granny called the cops on me- racial profiling and shit, y'know how it is."
"I'm sorry to hear that."
Diego puts the old, broken, and dusty clock in the pickup and climbs in, "Look, man, that place is for people like you. If you're gonna do some snooping around, make sure you don't get seen. Why the interest, anyway?"
Markham climbs in and puts on his seatbelt, "Someone I spoke to lived there. You read the news, right?"
Diego snaps his fingers, "Oh, right, right, that Nick...something guy. Yeah. You knew him?"
"In passing. I need to find out what really happened. 'Home invasion gone wrong' seems too convenient. The...timing, it's all a little off."
Diego drives out of the ghost town and turns up the tunes, "Ah, I see. Well, you gotta be careful, vato. If they catch you, well...it won't be good."
"I understand. So, you've been in Sunnyvale before, correct?"
Diego nods, but keeps his eyes on the road ahead, "Yeah, to do some odd jobs- y'know, the usual: tiling work, pool-cleaning, landscaping, painting, and so forth. Those suburban types can be real tight-asses sometimes, heh."
"Interesting. Did you have any other problems?"
"Nah, but I was lucky, ese. I've seen a few other vatos get in trouble- the cops harassed them, threatened 'em, and even roughed 'em up a bit."
Markham sighs and looks out the window, the city passing by in a blur. He absently stares at the many rows of homeless tents, the flickering streetlights, the broken traffic signals, the busted storefronts, and the countless posters that litter the buildings.
The Gangrel adds, "Yeah, that place has got its fair share of problems. I personally wouldn't wanna live there, homes. But, a Gringo like you might make it."
"I don't know about that. I'll need to finish up some work first. Is that OK with you?"
"Yeah, totally. I got some helping-around to do at the community center, anyway. After that, we're gonna go find this Roxanne chick, right?"
Markham plainly nods, "That's the idea. You know where that motel is, right? It's our only lead on this Brujah. We find her, we might be able to find answers."
"A'ight. Yeah, I think I remember how to get there."
Diego drives back to his Haven. He drops Markham off and reminds him, "Just remember the house rules, OK? Don't break nothing and no messes. Cool? Yeah, you're a cool guy, haha."
The Baali nods and heads back inside. Diego drives off to do some volunteer work at the community center.
Inside, Markham heads downstairs to the basement. He finds a notepad and a pencil. He scribbles some notes and goes to his Toshiba laptop. He brings it upstairs, plugs it in, and turns it on.
His typing speed is as slow as ever, but he spends his night doing more research, making phone calls to banks that Luciano and Paul have (or are) banking with and asking them if he can gain access to their records.
As an SEC investigator, he has a legitimate reason and he needs the records to see if their accounts are in order and whatnot. He's very neutral-sounding, but doesn't come off as menacing or threatening in any way.
Markham is pretty aware that more flies are caught with honey than with vinegar. Of course, he's no sweet-talking charmer, but his voice is very even-toned, and he comes off as generally amicable, calm, and collected.
His phone calls go pretty smoothly. A few of the banks agree to let him take a look at the relevant documents, and they say that they'll email them to him.
The Baali still struggles with some of the deeper intricacies of his portable computer. He squints and leans back in his chair, and the wooden legs creak a little.
He's got a few leads, but not much else. He needs to take a more direct approach and question Luciano and Paul. And after what they tried, Markham isn't too fond of that prospect, but he has little else to go off of at this stage of the investigation.
For now, the Baali decides to go to keep following the money. He gets the latest bank statements via email and sees the latest windfalls of the duo.
"My god."
It's no small chunk of change to sneeze at, that's for sure! The Baali gulps a little and sees the returns, the interest, the dividends, and the overall amount. He shakes his head and continues reading.
Markham makes some notes and does the math. He doesn't know how they managed to generate this much cash in such a short timespan, and he needs to find out.
Interestingly enough, the numbers all seem to be adding up. There doesn't appear to be any sign of manipulation or fudging or exaggeration or anything of that nature.
The numbers are all legit, still, it's a solid lead, and he'll follow it. He has yet to find out about LDJ's Malkavian golden goose, laying them golden eggs.
Speaking of...
Mauve has already awaken from her day-sleep. She's already gone out, stalked the dark evening streets, and picked a suitable target for the night. She's already drank her share from his body.
The man is slumped against the alley wall. His face is pale and his heart is racing. Mauve drinks a bit more, and then licks the wounds shut.
Once back home, she pretty much does the only thing she's impelled to do- manipulate the numbers to get higher and higher returns for her "boss".
Before getting to "work", Mauve dials his number and waits. It rings a few times and she hears a sleepy man's voice, "Hm...yeah, wha--what's good, Mauve? What do you want?"
The Malk gingerly says, "Hello, Mr. Donovan."
He groans, "Yeah, yeah, good evening to you, too. Got any good news for me?"
"Yes."
Luciano sighs in annoyance, "Well, what is it?"
Mauve sees the numbers dancing all around her and rattles off, "The market's gonna fall by 0.765%, stocks will go up by 2.11%, and bonds will see a slight decrease of 0.15%"
Luciano's eyes widen and he goes, "WHOA! That's fucking amazing! OK, OK, do it, now! Get on it!"
"Understood, Mr. Donovan. Is--is there anything else?"
"Why? Something bothering you?"
"I'm fine. I--I was wondering something, Mr. Donovan?"
Luciano gets a little impatient, "What now?"
Mauve takes on an even more sheepish tone and asks, "I'd like to go to the salon sometime this week. My um...hair's a bit messy. And I really wouldn't mind a makeover, a massage, and--and a full-body wax, um...sir."
Luciano counters, "The fuck for?! It's not like you have any friends ya need to impress or anything like that. I mean, let's be real, before I found you and gave you a place, you were a homeless bum, a loser--"
"Y--you don't need to rub it in, Mr. Donovan," Mauve mumbles.
LDJ goes on, "I mean, you could have a makeover if you, I dunno, LAY MORE OF THEM FUCKING GOLDEN EGGS FOR ME. Seriously, I dunno how you do it and I don't care. Just keep talking to the numbers, doing them, and I'll make sure you get all the nice things you want, OK?"
Mauve pensively lowers her head and holds back a sad sigh, "Understood, Mr. Donovan."
"Good. Now, get back to work."
"Right away, sir."
With that, Mauve hangs up and goes back to interacting with the numbers. They float around her, going up and down. Floats and integers alike "speak" to her in a language that only she can comprehend and decode.
Mauve closes her eyes, focuses her mind, and does her Malkavian "thang". The numbers begin changing. She's altering them, foreseeing the trajectory of the financial markets with the power of her mind.
Her background in finance (as a financial reporter) certainly helps her make the numbers dance and play the song that she wants to hear.
For a while, the Child Of Malkav doesn't feel the weight of the world on her shoulders. Her worries are pushed to the back of her mind. The numbers and the figures become her whole world.
She reaches out and her hands phase through a cluster of digits. The numbers swirl and spin. She sees their values change, and the trajectories of the markets begin to shift.
Mauve sees a lot of 0s. She sees them go up, and she sees them go down. But, they all eventually come back to a single number- a single, glorious, and majestic number.
The value of Pi. 3.14 and the rest.
Mauve gently cracks a small smile when she sees this infinite, non-repetitive sequence of digits which is said to contain everything. They dance around her, and they fill her with a strange sense of joy and fulfillment.
She giggles, laughs, and does her weird Malkavian thing. Her body is filled with a small sense of satisfaction and joy. For the first time in a very long while, Mauve feels some semblance of happiness.
Yet, on the back of her mind, she knows, deep down, that what she's doing for her twerp of a boss- netting insane amounts of money through sheer manipulation and alteration- isn't right.
But, she needs the Haven and the comforts that come with it and she doesn't really have much of a choice. LDJ's not the nicest of people, but he's the one that picked her off the streets and gave her a place to live.
Still, all of what she's doing is slowly (but surely) chipping away at her Humanity. Her expertise and background in the murky world of finance capital only serves to make things worse in the long run.
When she was still a reporter that drew breath, she was privy to a lot of the excess of the financial "bro" types back in Kansas City- the insane dinner bills, the drugs, the whirlwind affairs, the wild partying, and the like.
She's seen the numbers rise and fall, and the people who were responsible for those fluctuations- the bankers, the stockbrokers, the hedge fund managers, the day traders, and so forth.
She's also seen the consequences of their fiendish deeds- the rising prices of groceries and housing, job losses left and right, crimes being committed from a desperate place of poverty and hopeless despair, and a whole lot of other nasty stuff.
That's really the only thing trickling down.
Mauve knows that what she's doing with the numbers isn't right. But, she needs the comfort of her Haven because being homeless sucks (and being a homeless Kindred sucks even more so).
And, if Luciano Donovan Junior tells her to do it, well, then, she has no choice but to comply. If she doesn't, it's her ass back on the harsh streets of Flimont City and that could very well be a fate worse than Final Death.
Mauve is just glad to have a roof over her head after a very long time. But, she can't help but wonder if it's better than being a slave to LDJ's and Paul's insatiable greed.
When the time comes, and when she crosses paths with Markham Reed, she'll have to reckon with this and many other questions. For now, though, her Unlife is numbers and digits swirling all around her.
(Sometimes, it can all get a bit overwhelming for someone like her).
For a brief moment, Mauve Lilac considers the possibility of a different path, but quickly brushes those thoughts away. She has a job to do, and she'll see it done no matter what.
Elsewhere...
The twerp in question calls up his best friend, "Heeeey, P-Money, how's it going?"
Paul puts the phone down and wipes some cocaine off his nose, "Yeah, yeah, yeah, it's going great. Yeah, gr--gr--great. What's up?"
Luciano smirks, "You had a bump, huh? Yeah, you sound like you had some. You fuckin' dope fiend, you fuckin' mook. Anyways, you wanna go take a nice, long drive 'round the city for a while?"
Paul sniffs a few times, "Uh...no. How's our idiot savant doing? I still don't trust her, Luciano. Something about her seems...off."
Luciano laughs, "Damn, is that happy dust giving you visions or something? Naaah, Mauve's legit. If she tries anything funny, I'll kick her ass back out on the streets and Gordon will make sure she's buried under piles and fucking piles of paperwork, hahahahaha!"
"Yeah, haha. At least we have him. The returns are looking good so far. I was working on the presentation for tomorrow's investors' meeting."
Luciano's eyes widen in surprise, "There's an investors' meeting?? TOMORROW?!"
Paul grimaces, "Duh, yeah. Don't you actually pay attention to these meetings or read the emails?"
"I'm a busy man, Mr. Cho. Besides, that's your job, right? Reading all the emails and shit. Me, I'm just a humble, good-looking half-Italian guy who wants to have fun, get his massive dick sucked on by a whole lotta chicks, and make a lotta money, and have some more fun."
LDJ's best friend replies, "Yeah, I'm with you there, but we still have the you know...business side of things to take care of? Sure, it's...mundane and boring as fuck but someone's gotta do it, right?"
Luciano's expression sours a little, but he doesn't dwell on this, "Yeah, whatever. Look, I'll pick your ass up, OK? We'll have a nice, long drive."
"You have a new car yet?"
"Nope. I like this ride. Why, YOU planning on buying a new car?"
Paul snorts a few times, his eyes lingering on a thin line of cocaine across his wooden desk. He budges and puts the phone aside. He bends down, picks up the rolled-up dollar bill, and inhales the white powder.
He sits up, his nose is sore, and his eyes are bloodshot. He's starting to see all sorts of crazy shapes and colors. His mind is racing and he feels like he can do anything.
He picks up the phone and hears his best friend snickering in the background. He gulps and groans a few times, "What's wrong?"
Luciano's laughter is raucous, "Hahahahaha! I thought you were in the middle of having sex, hahahahahaha! Wait, wait, are ya sniffing it off someone's ass crack?"
Paul clicks his tongue, "No, no. I was...never mind. What--what the hell were we talking about?"
LDJ laughs some more, "Oh, you fucking cocaine vacuum cleaner. So, new car, huh? You sure you should be driving in your uh...state? Ya remember what happened the last time ya got in front of a wheel when ya had a bump, right?"
"That was YEARS AGO! So, what about the investors' meeting, huh? I think we'll need to prepare for that, Luciano. Like, maybe, do some reading on what the other companies have been doing. Or maybe, y'know, try to get some info out of our competitors and shit."
"Sure, sure. Anyways, I never liked reading. It's so boring. I wish there was, like, a robot that did all the reading for you and gave you a quick summary. That would be useful to a guy like me, heh."
Paul sighs, "Yeah, that sounds great. Maybe in a few years' time. For now, we have to do all the work ourselves. And uh...we also have to ensure that everything we're doing always remains above board and legal."
Luciano waves his hand, "Yeah, yeah, absolutely, Mr. Lawful. Don't worry, we'll be fine. I know that we're not, uh...always on the right side of the law, but, y'know, whatever, right?"
"That's what I don't like, damnit! J--Just don't do anything stupid, Luciano. If we're ever caught, it'll be a massive headache and I don't think we have the cash or the lawyers to get us out of THAT kind of trouble. Speaking of, any word on that SEC guy?"
LDJ shrugs his shoulders, "I already lost 60 large trying to bump this clown off. Maybe we should consider paying him off?"
Paul sucks some air through his teeth and is unsure, "What if Markham Reed is one of those guys who won't take a--a--"
"Bribe?"
Paul sighs, "Yeah, that. I--I mean, we could always call it a very generous 'gift' and make sure he gets off our backs. What do you think? Should we go down that road?"
"It's not a bad idea. Anyway, Gordon said he was looking more into this Reed guy- said he was going to the town he was from or something like that."
Paul's eyebrows shoot up in surprise, "Oh, wow. Really? I know Gordon Pym's driven a--and determined, but ALL THAT just for 1 SEC nobody??"
Luciano snickers, "Eh, he sounded obsessed and wanted to find out more about this Markham Reed, so I let him indulge himself in these flights of fancy."
"'Flights of fancy'?"
"Yeah, I'm not expecting him to turn up much anyways. This Markham guy's a nobody, really. Hell, I wouldn't mind paying the you-know-whos to try and bump him off again."
Paul gets a bit uncomfortable and decides to change the subject, "So, um...uh...you're not actually gonna break things off with Sophie, right? I--I mean, she's literally a fucking princess, man! Angie's just some unremarkable loser."
"Sophie's cool, man. Nah, I gotta figure out a way to keep these 2 chicks hopping on and sucking my dick. Any suggestions?"
Paul rubs the base of his neck and responds, "Nope. Just uh...make sure you use a condom, OK? I'm pretty sure you're not ready for any mini Lucianos or Lauras running around just yet, right?"
"Psssssh, no, no. I'm not ready for kids. They're like little vampires. They suck the life and soul out of you. Naaaah, I'm cool as a cucumber. But, thanks for the advice, buddy."
"No problem. All I can tell you is this: make sure they don't find out about each other. Anyways, why the fuck are you screwing Angie? Like, I genuinely don't get it? What's so special about her???"
LDJ sniffs and raises his chin, "It's my way of defying my dad."
"Huh?"
Luciano sighs heavily, "You know he didn't exactly...get along with black people, right?"
Even Paul sighs and nods, "That's putting it mildly. We all knew how...racist he was a--and still is."
"Yeah, yeah, no need to bring it up. So, I figured I might as well get me some of that forbidden fruit, y'know what I'm saying, huh?"
Paul gulps, "Hmph, can't it at least be something, I dunno, better? There's plenty of, y'know, black chicks on your wavelength in this city, man."
Luciano queries, "The fuck's that supposed to mean?"
Paul straightforwardly tells his best friend, "Get someone's who's loaded and ride her into the high-fucking-heavens, man."
LDJ clicks his tongue, "Naaaah, I like Angie."
"Pfft. Y'know, this reminds me of something your dad told me back when we were kids and we went on that summer vacation to um...Antigua. Remember that?"
"Hell yeah, I do! I saw a lotta funky-ass shit back over there, hahahaha!"
Paul clears his throat a few times, "Yeah, he took me to the side and told me something."
"Well, what'd the old man say, huh?"
"He said, and I quote, 'Paul, listen to me closely. I only ever want 2 kinds of people handling my money: Jews and Asians.'"
Lovely.
Luciano bursts out into laughter, "Oh, hahahahahaha! Yeah, that's abso-fucking-lutely something the old man would say, hahahaha, oh, shit, wow. He--he actually told you, little you, THAT on our fucking summer vacation?"
Paul plainly says, "Mm-hmm. He did. I still remember it like it was yesterday. Your dad was dead serious, too. He had this look in his eyes, and I knew he meant every single word of it, man. Every single word."
"Jesus, well can't blame him for wanting to look after his business...interests."
"Yeah, so you better get ready for that meeting tomorrow. We can't afford to fumble this, Luciano. You gotta get serious if you ever wanna escape your daddy's shadow and be your own man, making his own name in the world."
Luciano grumbles, "Yeah, yeah, I know, I know. I'll try my best. Anyways, I'm coming to pick you up, OK? I'll see you in a few minutes, P-Money."
Paul's face scrunches in confusion, "The hell for? We--I have work to do, Luciano. Like, don't get me wrong, I love our wild parties, but...err...ah, fuck."
He puts the phone aside and sniffs up some more mojo. Luciano hears some muffled sounds in the background and snickers to himself. Paul makes all sorts of obnoxious grunts and groans. He also starts breathing heavily and he's sweating bullets. He's clearly enjoying himself.
LDJ waits for his best friend to finish up before asking, "You done?"
Paul is still panting, "Yeah, yeah, I'm done. I--I just needed it, man. You--you know how--how it is, right, right?"
"Yeah. You uh...got enough to last you?"
Paul lets that question hang in the air. He winces and his eyes twitch, "I think that we might have to stop by Marco's place tomorrow night."
LDJ chuckles in a taunting manner, "Whoa, you went through a whole fucking pound of blow in under a week?! That's...that's insane, man! Hahahahaha!"
Paul sighs and rubs his forehead, "Yeah, yeah, yeah. It's...it's--I need it, OK? And, as my best friend, I expect you to--to understand my needs. I put up with your antics, it isn't too much of--of an ask that you--"
Luciano completes his buddy's thoughts, "Look the other way while Paul Cho buries his beak in some blow? Done and done. What are friends for, huh? Now, I'm coming to pick your ass up. We're going for a drive."
"I--I have work to do, Luciano."
"And I said we're going for a drive. Now, come on, chop-chop, get your ass out there and wait for me."
Paul budges and groans, "15 minutes, no more, no less. I REALLY need to get this presentation ready, email it, and make sure that the other investors are good to go."
Luciano counters, "25 minutes. Traffic, ya know how it is."
With that, Luciano hangs up and goes to pick up his best friend. Paul does what he can to work on the presentation, fueled by nose candy and energy drinks.
The duo head out for a nice, long drive around the city. They take the scenic route and enjoy the sights, not a care or bother in the world.
As for those who do have cares and bothers...
After a few hours, Diego returns to his Haven. As expected, he sees his Baali guest slightly hunched over at the dining table, slowly typing away on his bulky Toshiba laptop. The screen is reflecting off Markham's eyes. He's been busy, and still is.
Diego quietly walks over and taps him on the shoulder.
Markham's head snaps up, "Ah! Oh, it's you."
Diego apologizes, "Ayy, what's good, devil man? Ready to go find this puta?"
"Gimme 5 minutes."
Diego squints and takes a look at what Markham's working on, but the Gangrel can make neither heads nor tales of whatever's on the screen, so he shrugs and throws himself on the couch. He lays his head back and waits.
Markham types away for a few more minutes before shutting his laptop down. He gets up and stretches. He feels his back pop and his dead muscles loosen up a little. He cracks his knuckles and looks over to Diego, "I'm ready."
Diego chuckles, "Sure, sure. Gimme a minute, homes. Tough evening at the community center." He wants to say more.
Markham simply says, "Oh?"
The Feral sighs, a mixture of tiredness and frustration in his voice, "Yeah, yeah. I mean, it's cool and all that, but sometimes, I just feel like they don't give a shit about anything, y'know?"
"Who?"
With an unmistakable venom in his voice, Diego answers, "The authorities. We had a few of those pendejos roll around when we were busy. In typical bureaucrat fashion, they started fussing over zonal permits and whatever else. Man, it was such a pain in the ass!"
Markham nods and keeps listening. He's not much of a talker, but he knows that Diego needs to vent a little.
Diego continues, "They also said something about the community center's 'structural integrity', but that thing is as solid and well-made as can be. I've seen its insides, so me and the vatos there should know, but they didn't listen to us. They said that it wasn't 'up to code' and shit like that."
"I see."
Diego shakes his head, "Man, I just don't get it. I mean, we're helping people here, we're doing some good, and they're trying to shut us down."
Markham inquires, "Have you tried going through official channels in your attempts to um...bring back this community center?"
Diego scoffs, his head shaking in derision, "'Course we have. Me, Pedro, Raul, a couple of other busters. We tried everything from going door-to-door with petitions, flyers, shit like that."
The Feral sniffs, "We even tried contacting the state government, but they didn't give a shit and pretty much wrote us off. Those pendejos are in someone's pocket, I tell you."
"That's unfortunate."
Diego shrugs, "Yeah, well, I guess...it is what it is, right?"
Markham sincerely says, "It doesn't have to be this way." He looks into the distance as he says that.
The Gangrel lightly smacks Markham's shoulder, "You and me both, homes. You and me both. C'mon, let's go find ourselves a Brujah puta, haha! That rhymed."
Markham dryly nods, gets up, smooths over some of the wrinkles in his casual getup, and follows Diego out the door.
Once in the Outlander's pickup truck, Markham buckles his seatbelt and readies himself for the ride. Diego pulls out and drives off into the night.
The Gangrel turns up the tunes and rocks out. Markham keeps quiet and looks out the window. The city passes by in a blur. There's still a lot of traffic on the roads, even at this hour.
It's the usual (depressing) sights that seem to go on forever: condemned buildings, extremely long lines near a soup kitchen that is already over-capacity, cops brutalizing and roughing up some poor folk, and a lot more.
Diego slows down and curses under his breath, "Oh, it's...this place."
Markham perches an eyebrow, "What's wrong?"
The Feral eases his foot off the accelerator and slows down, "I remember they call this place 'opioid alley'."
"Why?"
"You know what OxyContin is?"
"Not as much, no. Why?"
Diego slows down some more, and does a wide, sweeping gesture to what lies ahead, "I came hunting here once. I bit into some of these poor souls, and I swear I could fucking taste the--the shit they were popping into their mouths like fucking candies, man."
"Jesus."
"Heh, yeah." The Feral does a pinching gesture, "It was a little of that OxyContin stuff, but oh man, was it enough to make me act all cranky and shit."
Markham queries, "What happened? Why would it affect you so much?"
The Gangrel shrugs, "It lasted for about a week. It's like I...had to keep coming back HERE, to this very place, to hunt. Nowhere else and nobody else would do."
Markham thinks out loud, "So, what you're saying is, that by feeding on someone taking this OxyContin, you got addicted to it?"
"Pretty much, yeah- Marisol seems to think so, anyway. I don't know how that works, but I guess you don't eat from the same tree twice. And uh...I guess I was kinda like them for a while."
"Like who?"
Diego motions to a scruffy-looking guy emptying the contents of a prescription bottle into his mouth. He washes it down with some Fanta and keeps walking. Markham frowns and looks away.
The Gangrel continues, "They're not all bad, though. I mean, I saw 1 chick who was trying her best to get clean. She had the shakes, man. She was sweating like crazy, and her eyes were all red and bloodshot."
Markham inquires, "What about treatments? Methadone could be useful in cases like this, I mean--"
Diego cuts him, laughing bitterly, "Haha! This is America, hermano, not some fancy European country where healthcare, treatments, and rehab are all free or affordable. Naaah, we're stuck with this bullshit system. Mierda (ES: Shit)."
Markham takes a deep breath and looks out the window again. He watches as the poor souls walk around and stagger about. They look so lost and hopeless.
His otherwise impassive expression softens (just a bit) and he feels something tugging at his cold, dead heartstrings. He knows that it's not the fault of these people that they're addicted to Purdue's damn opioids.
No, it's the pharmaceutical companies that rake in millions upon millions off these drugs (despite their known issues), the politicians and regulators that are in their pockets, and the doctors that prescribe them like candy at a fucking school fte.
(Well, except for principled doctors like Dr. Collins).
Anyway, the Feral drives his pickup truck slowly, approaching the motel that Roxanne is supposed to be doing her business at.
He pulls over and turns the engine off. He rubs his nose and looks over to Markham, "This is it. You ready?"
Markham unbuckles his seatbelt, "Yes."
Diego does the same, "OK."
The motel is as sleazy and shady as they come. The surrounding area isn't very well-lit. A few flyers have been stuck on the walls, some having been up there since last century.
The ground is cracked and the sidewalks are uneven. Different types of characters lurk around, eyeing the 2 immortal newcomers with a small degree of suspicion.
Diego puffs out his chest and walks towards the motel. He tries to act tough and assertive, but he's clearly uncomfortable.
As the 2 Kindred approach the motel, they're accosted by none other than Yumi, the chick from Marco's drug den. She looks a lot worse for wear. The bags under her eyes have bags of their own and she looks like she's lost a little weight.
She gulps and looks at Markham, eyes wide open in fear, "Y--you!"
Markham's eyebrows rise up, "Oh. Hello."
Yumi's hands tremble and she leans forward, "A--a blowjob for you a--and your friend. 100 bucks."
For reasons that should be obvious, the 2 vampires decline. Diego winces a little and goes ahead.
Markham sighs and tries to ignore the young woman. He's not sure what she's doing out here, but he's not here for anything like that.
Yumi desperately calls out, "50 bucks! 50 bucks, please!"
Diego shakes his head, "Naaah, we're good, thanks."
Tears start flowing from Yumi's desperate eyes. She gets on her knees and joins her hands in some sort of pleading gesture, "Please, I need it! Please!"
Markham looks back at the poor woman and feels something tugging at his cold, dead heartstrings. He approaches her and asks, "Are you OK?"
Yumi sniffles, "N--no. I need an--an OxyContin prescription. With--without it, my body hurts. But, when I pop a pill, the pain goes--goes away. Do--do you know a doctor who prescribes that stuff? Please, mister, I need it."
Markham's mouth is slightly agape, "I--I'm sorry, I don't."
Yumi sniffles some more and frantically grabs his shirt. She rocks back and forth, yelling and screaming, "PLEASE! I NEED IT! PLEASE!"
Markham looks around and sees some people watching. He gently pries her hands off his shirt and says, "I'm sorry, really...I am."
Yumi refuses to let go, tears flowing freely like a river of sorrow and pain, "P--please, mister, please! I--I'll do anything! I'll let you fuck me, hit me, choke me, use me, spit on me--"
Markham gently pries her hands off again and steps back, "I'm sorry, I can't help you. I--I really can't."
Diego turns around and calls out, "What's the hold up?"
A man in a skimpy outfit comes over and helps Yumi up. He softly whispers something in her ear and sends her off. His body is quite lithe and his face is heavily made up.
He struts over to Markham and Diego and smirks, "Hey, fellas, looking for a good time?"
Diego shakes his head, "Nope. We're looking for a chick named Roxanne."
The man wolf-whistles and preens himself, "Roxy, huh? Well, you handsome boys got tastes."
He leans closer to Markham and huskily whispers, making the money gesture with his thumb, index, and middle finger, "Just make sure you got a lotta this. Roxanne's no cheap-o. Handsome prices, heh heh."
Markham nods, "I see. Where can we find her?"
The man points to the motel, "Room 213. Just tell her that it's Vinny who sent you. And, hey, if you're interested in spicing the night up, just let me know, OK? Ciao." He waves his hand in a flourish and saunters off to attend to some other clients.
Diego sighs and says, "Well, we finally found her. To be honest, this is your thing, homes. I'm gonna do something else now. You have my number, right? Call me whenever you're done."
He adds, "And, hey, if you decide to spend the day with that Brujah, then no judging from me, haha."
Markham shakes his head, "I'll call you when I'm done, Diego. Thank you...for everything."
Diego lazily pats the Baali on his shoulder, smiles softly, and walks back to his pickup truck without saying much else.
Markham gathers his composure and prepares to head to room 213, where he hopes answers will await him. Before doing so, he checks his wallet to make sure he's got enough cash on him.
Not that he's gonna do the deed with her, no, but it might be a good idea to grease her cold palm with some greenbacks. After all, it's a good way to get on someone's good side.
Usually.
A prostitute from the corner notices Markham's wallet and purrs, "Hey, sugar, looking to dance?"
Markham replies, "I'm looking for Roxanne. Room 213, right?"
The sex worker chuckles and bites her lip, "You're gonna need a whole lot more than that if you want Roxy to even give you the time of day. Nice shirt, by the way. You're not from around here, huh? Lemme guess, tourist, just passing through?"
Markham plainly says, "Something like that."
The lady of the night shrugs, shoots the vamp a wink, and goes back to smoking her cigarette.
The Baali shrugs, looks at his clothes, and wonders if he should've dressed more inconspicuously. Then again, it's a bit late for that now.
Markham takes a deep breath, steels himself, and heads towards room 213. He sees some people loitering around and figures they're probably waiting for their turn.
The motel is pretty average. There's a nasty pool out front that's full of leaves, cigarette butts, and other debris. The motel is about 4 floors high and quite spread out. The reception area isn't well-lit and the receptionist barely pays attention.
There's some folk sitting on foldable lounge chairs out in the open. They're mostly looking down at their small phones or playing cards with each other. They don't pay attention to Markham as he walks by.
He sees a bunch of flyers advertising all sorts of things- church services, strip clubs, AA meetings, massage parlors, and the like.
Mr. Reed takes a look around and blows a small raspberry. He sees that some of the windows have been boarded up. Some of the doors have been broken down and there's graffiti all over the place.
The smell of cheap booze, stale cigarettes, and weed hangs heavy in the air. The whole place has a certain depressing aura to it.
On the way up, Markham stops and notices some scribbling on the wall that reads: "I see humans, but I see no Humanity."
The capitalized H in "Humanity" makes him wonder if this was something that was scribbled by a desperate Kindred. Then again, it could very well be a mortal...
A cry for help, an observation regarding the current state of things, what is it, and why did someone take the time to write it...here of all places?
It could be a lot of things, really. After taking a few moments to ponder on this, Markham shakes his head and continues climbing up the grimy stairs.
He sees a couple of stoners sharing their tongues with each other, their scrappy bong on the floor between them. The stoners don't pay attention to Markham as he passes by. He doesn't pay attention to them either.
They continue moaning into each other's mouths, smoke pouring out of their nostrils.
Once he reaches the 2nd floor, Markham stops and looks around. He can hear all sorts of sounds coming from the rooms- moans, grunts, screams, and the like. It almost feels like a porno movie studio.
He sees some people hanging out on the balconies. They're mostly talking, drinking, and smoking. Some people chuck a few pebbles into the pool below them and laugh.
Markham takes another deep breath and heads to room 213. He knocks on the door and waits. Some people nearby notice this and whisper amongst themselves.
"Whoa, that dude's going for Roxy."
"Damn, that tall glass of cold milk better have cash ready."
"What a horrible shirt! Who died all over it?!"
Markham's enhanced vampiric senses pick up on all this whispering and opining, but he shrugs it off and knocks on the door again. No answer.
The Baali sighs impatiently and is about to knock when someone informs him, "Roxanne's out. Said she needed to take a walk, run some errands, clear her head or whatever she said. Wait your turn, buddy. Wait your turn."
Markham sharply exhales and leans against the wall. He folds his arms and turns his head aside.
Some short lass in a fishnet top and torn jeans approaches Markham and offers him a cigarette, smirking while she does so.
Markham declines, "No thanks."
The woman shrugs, pulls out a matchbox and lights it. As the fire is lit, Markham's eyes widen and he shakily gasps. That would be his Rtschreck being triggered- the Kindred's primal fear of the fire.
He almost falls on his backside, but manages to keep his cool. The woman smokes her cigarette and watches him with a curious, almost bemused, expression. She blows smoke in his direction and teasingly chuckles.
Markham's eyebrows furrow in annoyance. He turns away and keeps waiting.
That same chick gently whistles into the night, the smoke from her cigarette rising up into the air, "You're gonna have to wait your turn, buddy."
She comes over and playfully slaps Markham's arm, "Where ya from, buddy?"
"What's it to you?"
She tugs on the sleeve of his aloha shirt and chuckles softly, "Nice shirt. My friend said it sucked, but he has no fashion sense whatsoever."
"Hmm."
"So, where ya from?"
Markham figures there's no harm in making small talk. He might be cold and withdrawn, but he's no misanthrope, "Greenridge, a small town a few miles east of Washington DC."
The woman nods, "Cool, cool. You got a name?"
Markham pauses and considers whether or not to tell her. Then again, he could always give a fake name, so what's the harm?
He answers, "Beckett."
The chick with the cig clicks her tongue and shoots a sidelong glance at the Baali, "Naaah, you don't look like a 'Beckett'. Try again."
Markham sighs and answers truthfully, "Markham Reed."
The woman nods and extends her hand, "Nice to meetcha, Markham Reed. I'm Jane. What brings you here?"
Markham's expression is unreadable, "Business."
Jane snickers and takes another puff of her cigarette, "Hah! Business! Hey, guys, this dude's over here to do 'business' with Roxanne!"
Jane's friend group burst out laughing.
Markham rolls his eyes and keeps waiting. He hears a lot of commotion coming from the room next door. Someone is having a party.
He sees some people passing by, and he also sees some police officers drive past.
Jane dismissively waves her hand, "Nah, don't worry about them. Even the cops around here get a piece of Roxy's...you know." Her eyebrows go up and down, as if to suggest that Markham should already know what she's talking about.
Markham plainly says, "I see."
Jane smirks and winks at the Baali, "Yeah, the cops around here are more than happy to turn a blind eye to...just about everything, really. If anything, they're the bigger criminals 'round these parts. I feel a lot less safe whenever I see a cop car parked in a dark corner."
She shudders for a moment and continues smoking her cigarette, blowing the acrid smoke all out with such urgency that one might think that she's a train whistling through a tunnel.
She then points at Markham, "You, my man, need to lighten up a little. I like that shirt, by the way. Really, I do. Lemme guess, your...special friend got that for you?"
Jane narrows her eyes and strokes her chin, "Nah, a guy like you wouldn't see Roxy if he had a...somebody to roll around in the hay with. Am I right or am I right?"
Markham sighs, "A friend got it for me."
"Just a friend?"
"I like and respect her as a person, nothing more, nothing less."
"Hmm, fair enough. Fair enough. So, how'd you find out about Roxanne, hmm?"
"She has something I'm looking for."
Jane mockingly gasps, "Oh, is that so? You're not like a...repo man or some debt collector, right? I hate those fuckers, they took my dad's car..." she trails off, taking another drag of her cigarette. She seems to have remembered something unpleasant and frowns.
Her eyes seem to be focused on a distant memory. She takes another puff of her cigarette. Smoke flows out of her nostrils. She smiles. It's a cold, bitter smile. She's lost in thought for a while.
After a few minutes of back-and-forth (Markham remains as distant but not necessarily rude), Jane finally finishes her cigarette, snubs it out on the floor, and heads back to her friend group. She winks at Markham as she goes. She mouths the words "good luck".
Markham shakes his head. He doesn't have much time to dwell on that because soon enough, Roxanne comes back to her room.
The Brujah lady of the night is in her 30s. She's wearing a loose red silk robe and a black lace bra. She has short-medium spiky curls with cheap dye that's long since faded out. Her lips are luscious and expressive and her face is long, pale, and angular.
Her brown eyes are sharp and piercing. Her nails are painted red and black, but the nail polish looks quite chipped in some places. She has an air of sophistication about her, but there's a wild, untamed glint of passion in her dead eyes.
She casually saunters to her room. Her voice is both raspy and velvety at the same time. She gives Markham a lazy, almost casual look from head to toe.
For now, she ignores him, walks over to Jane and her friends, and asks, "What's up?"
Jane points at Markham, "That dude there's here for you, Roxy. He's waiting for ya."
Roxanne turns and notices Markham. She folds her arms and smirks, "So, you're here for me, huh? Who sent you?"
"Vinny."
The Punk faintly chuckles and remarks, "I'm surprised he didn't hold you up with a lecture about your clear lack of...fashion, sugar. Oh well. Let's go inside and talk business, Mister...?"
Jane answers before Markham, "Markham Reed, heh heh."
Roxanne repeats his name, her tone low and almost seductive, "Markham Reed. Reed. Markham. Hmm, sounds delicious. C'mon, sugar, let's go inside."
Jane flashes a cheeky grin at the Baali and gives him a double thumbs-up as he follows Roxanne into her room. Markham quietly follows the Brujah into her room. She closes the door behind them. It makes a small clicking noise as it shuts.
Markham freezes in place and wonders not where, but when, he is. The motel room has been done up quite a bit. There's bead curtains, a shag carpet, and incense sticks all around the place. The curtains have also been drawn.
There's a large bed in the corner that's covered with red and pink sheets. There are also a few pillows strewn about. The room smells of jasmine, and a little bit of sandalwood.
Neither vampire can smell this stuff, so it's likely for the mortals who step in here.
Roxanne elegantly sits on the edge of the bed. She folds 1 of her long leg over the other and smirks. She looks up at Markham and licks her lips. She purrs, "Take a seat, sugar. Anywhere you want."
Markham does so, sitting on a black armchair opposite Roxanne. The Brujah eyes his clothing again, her smirk widening, "Interesting choice..."
"Excuse me?"
Roxanne laughs and smoothly explains, "That's the cuck seat you're sitting on. It's where men usually sit while I give their wives their first ever orgasm. It's very rare to find a woman in that very seat."
She leans forward, her voice low and husky, "But there have been times..."
Markham goes for the direct approach, "I'm Kindred and I need your help."
Roxanne's eye twitches and she initially feigns ignorance, "I'm sorry, sugar, I have no idea what that means. Is it some new thing that the...scene kids have come up with?"
Markham leans forward, hands clasped together, "I think you know what I mean."
Roxanne lifts her chin, "Well, maybe I do, maybe I don't. What's it to you, hmm?"
The Baali reveals his pointy fangs and sharp claws. Roxanne isn't taken aback, she simply smiles in satisfaction and nods, "Ah, when they said someone was looking for me, I wasn't expecting a fellow Cainite. What kind of Blood courses through your veins, hmm?"
Markham bluntly answers, "Baali."
For a moment, Roxanne twitches and winces. She quickly catches herself and nervously chuckles to herself, "Baali, huh? Ah, I know a few of them...in the biblical sense of the word."
Markham casts a sidelong glance in her direction, "OK...?"
Roxy plainly shrugs and simply says, "I had sex with 5 of them at once- 2 men, 2 women, and 1...that didn't quite fit into either category. It was quite the experience, but it was a job all the same."
Markham raises an eyebrow and says nothing. He just listens. He has a feeling that this is gonna be a long talk.
Roxanne gets up and saunters towards Markham. She bends down, puts her hands on his thighs, and leans forward, "Cainite or not, my company costs money, sugar. A gal's gotta eat, even if she doesn't have a digestive system."
The Baali gently pushes her away from him and says, "I came here to talk, not to have sex with you."
Roxanne faintly chuckles at that. She sits on the edge of the bed once again and smiles gently, "You're hardly the first one to ask that, sugar."
"What's that supposed to mean?"
The Brujah exhales sharply and explains, "Flimont City is a lonely place. It's so...crushing. Sometimes people don't want sex from me, they just wanna talk, maybe even put their heads on my ample bosom and fall asleep."
She quickly adds, "Best I can give 'em is an open ear and a short nap, I'm a gal with a schedule to keep." She playfully winks at Markham and licks her lips, "But...you. You're not like most of the guys who come in here asking for my services. So, what do you want, hmm?"
Markham asks, "How much for your err...services?"
Roxanne pouts her lips and teases, "Ooooh, all business, are we? Let's see, it's usually $210 per hour for mortals. It's about $200 for Kindred, beyond that, there's no Clan-special discounts or whatever. I give women a much more generous discount because most of them are easier to put up with, but you don't like you're about to undergo a sex change anytime soon, or are you?"
Markham shakes his head, "No, nothing like that. I guess I could..." he trails off and pulls out his wallet to take a look at how much money he has. He counts $300 and some coins tucked away. That should be enough. It should.
Roxanne lazily waves her hand, "But, since you only wanna talk, I'll be a generous Punk and charge you...$175 for an hour, no sex, no canoodling. Sound like a deal, sugar?"
Markham plainly nods and hands her the money. In a classic move, she tucks the cash inside her bra. Her pale face lights up in satisfaction and she winks at Markham, "Well then, where do you wanna start?"
The Baali simply answers, "Tell me a little about yourself. I wanna know more about you. Why'd you come to this city and how did you end up in this line of work?"
The Brujah laughs, "That's a lot more than a little, Mr. Reed. Fair enough, if you wanna know about me, you gotta tell me a little 'bit' about you. Trust is a 2-way street, and I don't easily trust strangers. No offense."
Markham nods, "That's fair. What do you wanna know about me?"
Roxanne smiles and purrs, "Everything. Tell me everything about yourself and I'll be more than happy to share my story with you."
The Baali starts with the basics, "I was born in the 1930s, Embraced in the 1970s, so I've been a Kindred for the past 30 or so years."
"Interesting. You just skipped over everything else and jumped straight to vampirism, huh? Well, that's fair. I'll let it slide. You must have a good reason for doing that. I mean, you did pay me for an hour. C'mon, tell me more. What did you do before becoming Kindred?"
"I worked as a fraud investigator for a small firm in my hometown."
"Hmm, I see. You still in that line of work?"
"Not exactly. I applied for the SEC because I was afraid someone would discover my true nature...and--and I just couldn't have that, not when I was still getting used to things regarding my new set of circumstances."
Roxanne looks somewhat impressed, "The Securities and Exchange Commission, hmm? My, my, my, you are 1 very busy boy." She laughs at that and motions for him to go on.
Markham does so, "Now, I pretty much work there and have been doing so for about a decade."
"Ah, I see. And, lemme guess, you feel it's time to pull a Ravnos and apply for another job?"
"No, well--I'm not sure yet, honestly. I feel like there's so much I can still do in my position as an Enforcement Investigator for the SEC, despite the limitations put on me."
"Huh, now that's quite...noble of you, I suppose. I respect that. Is your job your way of maintaining touch with your Humanity?"
Markham hesitantly answers, "I suppose it...is?"
Roxanne points out, "Well, if it wasn't, you'd have thrown in your towel already and looked for something else."
The Baali shrugs, "Maybe, maybe not. I just...I just want everyone to play fair and by the same set of rules. It isn't too big of an ask, y'know?"
Roxanne nods, "Ah, an idealist tempered by the harsh reality of things, hmm?"
"Something like that, I guess."
Markham then proceeds to explain his upbringing. He grew up in a fairly left-liberal, middle class household. He recalls taking part in protests and demos against the Korean War back in the 1950s.
He also recalls that his older sister, Daniella, got into some trouble with the law after being caught for protesting against the Vietnam War. But, that kind of middle-class radicalism didn't last very long.
Soon, many around him ended up giving in to the surrounding pressures and losing hope in humanity, later they started becoming conservative and more concerned with their own welfare than the welfare of others.
When Dani's name is brought up, Roxanne notices that Markham's hands shake and a look of anguish and sorrow flashes across his face.
She also notices that he clenches his fists and looks down. He doesn't say much else and just lets the silence linger for a little while. Roxanne is considerate enough not to pry and says nothing.
After a few moments of contemplative silence, Markham speaks again, "I've been doing my best to try to hold on to...something. Believe it or not, I still trust the system and have hopes in it, warts and all."
Roxanne curiously inquires, "And why is that?"
Markham answers, "It's about something in the Preamble in our Constitution- about forming and--and upholding a 'More perfect Union'."
Roxanne folds her arms and leans back on the bed, laughing, "Well, well, well, a quarter of a half-idealist! How fascinating!"
She licks her lips and does a sweeping gesture to the world beyond the motel room they're in, "And how is our supposedly 'perfect Union' doing now, hmm? The turn of the millennium has been nothing short of a shit-show."
Markham sighs and simply states, "You're right, absolutely. There's...there's a lot of pain in the air, a lot of...unresolved matters."
Roxanne scoffs and rolls her eyes, "You don't say! A lot of pain in the air? Cut the C-SPAN talk and get real, Markham. I know these streets better than you. I know the people out there better than you do, and I can tell you that there is nothing but pain, suffering, and sorrow with more than a dollop of misery."
She points a finger at him and adds, "And, before you start talking about your precious 'Preamble', I'd like to point out that this is NOT a 'More perfect Union'. It is FAR from that, FAR FROM IT!" her voice goes up and her anger rises as she finishes that sentence.
Markham calmly says, "You're right. I'm not here to defend the system or anything. I just wanna do what I can, y'know?"
Roxanne laughs bitterly, "And how is that going for you, huh?"
Markham admits, "That's what I came here to talk to you about..."
Roxanne lifts an eyebrow, "Oh?"
The Baali proceeds to tell the Brujah about the hitman who tried to "kill" him a few nights back. He explains that it's likely connected to the investigation he's carrying out into LDJ and P-Money.
He also tells Roxanne that there might be more to this case than meets the eye and that it might be more than just a simple case of 2 guys gettin' up to no good.
Roxanne looks both annoyed and disgusted when LDJ is mentioned, "Ugh, that...little shitbird. God. You really picked 1 of Flimont City's 'nicest' guys to piss off, huh?"
Markham flatly replies, "I suppose so."
Roxanne snorts, "Funny thing is, I knew his dad. Not in THAT sense, thankfully. Luciano Senior once offered me $70,000, I shit you not, to have a baby with him. Of course, us bloodsuckers can't exactly reproduce, so I turned down the old pervert and told him to get lost."
She adds, "That was back in the 1980s, by the way. He didn't take it pretty well, but I know how to stand my ground against creeps like him."
Markham's eyebrows furrow and he takes a moment to process this, "I see. Well, I'm glad you declined. Do you know what he wanted a child with you for?"
Roxanne scoffs, "Why do you think? He wanted to have a child that would carry on his name and legacy or some dumb rich guy shit like that. It's a sad, pathetic, and ultimately useless endeavor if you ask me."
Markham says, "I'm aware of the Donovans and most of their history. I know Luciano Senior has a biological kid on nearly every continent, but not all of them--"
Roxanne cuts him off, waving her hand dismissively, "Yeah, yeah, I put the pieces together, too. Luciano Senior wants to spread his seed all over the world and reproduce god knows how many copies of himself...it's disgusting. It's fucking disgusting!"
Markham shrugs, "I don't disagree. He's not a good man, that much is clear."
Roxanne leans forward, "Tell me something I don't know. So, you came to me to get some info on the hitman who tried to 'assassinate' you? I can help."
Markham stifles a sigh of relief and gestures for her to proceed.
The Brujah sex worker looks to the side and works some things out in her mind, the gears in her head turning and clicking. She takes a moment to collect herself before looking at the Baali again, "I don't have all the pieces, but they're an organized group. VERY organized."
"Go on."
"They all have or come from military backgrounds- special forces, wetwork, overseas combat deployments, that sorta shit. I don't know their leader, or leaders, but whoever they are, they run a pretty tight ship and aren't afraid to do some really disturbed and twisted stuff--"
Markham grimly interjects, "I know. I heard they kill kids, too."
Roxanne looks sickened and concurs with a small nod, "Mm-hmm. They're pretty messed up and they're the absolute worst kind of people out there, even worse than some of us, and that's saying a LOT. They're like the scum that floats to the top of the swamp." The venom in her voice is obvious.
She grits her teeth and angrily continues, "They're dangerous. I've seen some of them around and I know they like to hang out at bars and such. Get 'em drunk or high enough and they'll open up the most fucked up Pandora's box of horrors."
"Are these places around here?"
"I can point them out, but that's about as far as I can go, sugar."
Markham nods in understanding, "OK, I can work with that."
Roxanne's voice gets softer, "I'd be careful if I were you. Some of these guys...and gals come to me. We have sex and they get talking, treating me like some kind of discount priest or psychiatrist, but there's no such thing as whore-client confidentiality."
She suggestively smiles at him, indicating that she's more than willing to share all that info with him if he so desires.
Markham apprehensively accepts, "Um...OK?"
Roxanne purrs, "That's the spirit. Besides, the sex with these ex-solider, army veteran, war hero types is all take and no give- hell, many of them don't even know how to kiss a woman properly, let alone treat her right."
"I--I see. I'm...sorry to hear that."
The Brujah simply shrugs, "I'm used to it by now, heh, sorta numb to...most of it." She sighs gently and stares off into the distance, her expression softening for a few moments.
Markham's face contorts into a tiny frown. He's not sure what to say in this situation. Is he supposed to give her a hug and tell her it's OK?
Nervously, he gets off the cuck seat and pats her knee in a very awkward manner. He quickly returns to the chair once she stops looking so sad.
Roxanne chuckles, "Well, aren't you a shy one? You don't have to apologize or anything. You didn't do anything wrong, it's THEM who should be saying 'sorry'. Not you."
She snaps back into her usual seductive demeanor, "Now, do you wanna hear what I've managed to piece together about this group of highly-trained assassins? Of course you do."
Roxanne doesn't have exact names and most of the faces she can recollect have either committed suicide (no surprise there), been arrested after doing something truly heinous (like 1 ex-army guy who shot up a bar and killed a bunch of people last year because the music was too loud for him), or have simply disappeared off the face of the Earth altogether.
She also says that it's impossible that there's any Kindred amongst them, but she also warns that Markham shouldn't disregard such possibilities.
"Either way, whoever runs this show has...influence and is quite discreet in their operations. The cops won't do jack shit about them, they'll just shrug and say, 'Oh well'."
Markham inquires, "How would I go about finding something that ties Luciano Junior to these people?"
Roxanne dismissively waves her hand, "I doubt you'd find squat, sugar. Whoever's running the show must take all the usual precautions...and then some when it comes to ensuring a 100% customer satisfaction rate. Heh, well now it's gonna go down once word gets out about their failure to get rid of you."
"Are you sure you don't have anything else that can help me?"
Roxanne shakes her head, "No, sugar, I'm afraid not. All I know is that they're based somewhere in Flimont City and that they're all heavily-armed, highly-trained, and highly-discreet. And VERY ruthless."
Markham scratches his forehead with his thumb, "Hmm. And, if they're still after me, that means I'm putting anyone I associate with in danger, right?"
"Why?"
Markham clicks his tongue and explains, "I spoke to a reporter right before the hit. He was killed a few nights back- Nicky Schroeder. You might have read about it in the papers."
The Brujah looks surprised, "Oh? Him? He's connected to this...mess? I remember he had a thing for crossdressers and gender benders. Hmm, never mind. I recall he walked out on me and said I wasn't his 'type'. Oh, well. Maybe Vinny might know a little more, I know that he can be quite unconventional at times."
Markham says nothing and leans back against the chair. His eyes narrow and his face goes expressionless. He's thinking. He's thinking very hard. He takes a moment to reflect on everything.
Roxanne takes the moment to observe the Baali. She licks her lips and looks at him from head to toe. Her brown eyes keenly gaze into his cold gray eyes. She smiles seductively and tilts her head, "Anything else you'd like to discuss? Hmm? Either way, I'm going to charge extra if you want to stay longer than an hour."
Markham sighs, "Why do you do what you do?"
Roxanne faintly laughs at that query, "Survival. Isn't it what we're all doing, in 1 way or another, huh? Survival?"
Markham nods and adds, "I guess so. Y'know, that actually reminds me of something someone told me."
The Brujah prostitute lifts her chin in curiosity, "Oh? Who?"
"My Sire, Burt. He said that 'Survival is the game we all play.'"
Roxanne bitterly counters, "Cute. Yes, survival IS the game we all play...until we can no longer afford to do so. So, what do you say, sugar? You wanna keep flapping those gums?"
Markham answers, "I...I guess so. I mean, I'm not sure what else we can talk about, but, uh...if you're willing, then so am I."
Roxanne's smile widens and she leans forward, a bit of her cleavage on display through her silk robe and bra, "'Course we can! Honestly, not having to suck a guy's cock or show a woman where her clitoris is can be quite...tiring for me, not that I don't get some amusement out of the latter."
She lazily waves her hand and ruffles her hair around, "Even a working gal like me needs a break every now and then, y'know, sit back and relax for a bit."
"What would you like to talk about?"
"Hmmm, let me see...ah, how 'bout you tell me about yourself? I know you've mentioned your upbringing, your job, your Sire, but tell me more about Daniella, your older sister, right?"
Markham twitches and winces a few times. It takes some time for him to gather his composure and talk about his older sister. There's undoubtedly some trauma there, but Roxanne's sympathetic enough to listen.
She doesn't pry or force him to answer any questions. She simply lets Markham talk at his own pace. He recalls that Dani used to be the life of the party- a real social butterfly. She was older to her brother by 3 years.
"She was--she was--she meant a lot to me, Roxanne. She was my confidant, my best friend, she'd never miss a football game when I was playing. Even if--even if I lost or fumbled the ball badly, she'd still be cheering me on. She did so much for me, gave me so many good memories."
He shakily goes on, lips quivering, "She'd given me a reason to live, to hope in something better for...for all of us."
Roxanne nods empathetically, "I understand. I really do. I...really...do. What happened to her? If you're around the same age, then that means she'd be in her 70s now, wouldn't she?"
Markham sadly shakes his head, sanguine tears welling up in his eyes, "She never made it that far."
"Oh, I'm so sorry to hear that."
The Baali gulps and proceeds to state, "She...died in a...in a..."
Roxanne gently cuts him off and says, "If you don't wanna talk about it--"
Markham shakes his head from side to side, "No, no. I...it's just been a while since I've actually spoken to anyone about this."
He wipes the bloody tears away, smudges of red streaks on the side of his face and the back of his hand. He continues, "Crying won't change what happened, so...she died in a...hit-and-run back in the late 60s."
Roxanne's expression softens and she lightly gasps, "I'm so sorry, Markham."
The Demon Worshipper sniffs and goes on, "After that, the whole court case was nothing short of a...travesty."
"What happened?"
"The guy got away with everything scot-free. I try to forget a lot, but I'll never forget that--that fancy car that ran my sister over and crushed her like she was nothing."
Markham takes a few moments to regain his composure, "It was at the court, when the judge announced that Mr. Charlie Chesterfield, fuck him, would walk a free man. Completely and totally acquitted." The rage in his voice is unmistakable. He sniffs and breathes deeply for a few moments.
Roxanne furrows her brows, "How is it even possible for him to walk after what he did?? From what you're saying, this sounds pretty cut-and-dry to me- he--he ran over and killed your sister for fuck's sake!"
Markham sighs deeply and explains, "I dunno how, but Charlie's dad was rich and had connections, in high places. He probably had a few of his goons lean on the judge, a few jury members, or, hell, all of 'em. Who knows?" he scoffs and bitterly shakes his head in contempt.
"I'm so sorry, Markham. Really, I am. Even I have a sister, she was younger to me by 13 years, but after my Embrace in the 1970s, she aged and I stayed the same."
"What's your point, Roxanne?"
The Rabble scrunches the bridge of her nose, "She's alive, but she's sick and pretty much requires expensive, round-the-clock care."
Markham lifts his chin a little, "And that's why you do what you do?"
Roxanne bitterly chuckles, "Uh-huh, it's not my 1st choice, but it's the one that guarantees quick and easy money so I can keep up with my sister's ever-increasing medical expenses. It's a shitty system, I know."
"Hmm. I'm sorry to hear that. If you don't mind me asking, what is she suffering from?"
"Penny suffered a massive stroke 1 day. Doc said it was an intracranial hemorrhage. She was plunged into a deep coma and hasn't woken up since then. I rent a small apartment building and make sure she gets the care she needs- a nurse and all the equipment required. I got lucky that 1 of my clients is in the field of medicine and he agreed to set everything up for me on the cheap."
She goes on to tell Markham about the immense costs associated with caring for a person in a long-term coma- the fees, the supplies, the nurses she's been through till the right one could be found (right now, a nice woman from Poland pretty much stays with and watches over Penny around the clock), and other related expenses.
The initial costs and fees weren't really much of a concern for Roxanne, however, keeping everything maintained and making sure it works as intended is becoming more and more expensive as the nights roll on.
"Hence my...above-average costs, sugar."
Markham queries, "You...don't live with your sister?"
Roxanne is taken aback by that, "God no! Believe it or not, but the oldest profession in the world is also the most dangerous one, well, not as dangerous as the work my parents did in a meatpacking plant in fucking Idaho."
"You're from Idaho?"
"My parents moved to America from the UK even before I was born- in retrospect, I'm not sure if that's the worst decision they've ever made."
"What's wrong with Idaho?" Markham half-heartedly asks, trying his best to not dwell on the painful memories regarding his own sister.
Roxanne faintly laughs and shakes her head, "Ah, it was alright...for its time." She bites her lip and turns her head aside for a moment.
Markham snaps her back to reality by asking, "So, where do you live, or...is this your Haven?"
Still looking away, Roxanne lets out a snicker, "No, this is simply 1 of many places that I operate out of- I take a page out of the Ravnos playbook by always switching locations, moving around. You never know when things might...go wrong or when the police might finally be forced to investigate."
"Do the cops really know about all this?"
"Sure, most of 'em do. Then again, many of them can't even finger me properly, heh. The cops here are creeps. I remember having 1 cop ask me to pretend to be his ex-wife so he could beat the shit outta me."
She chuckles, but it's not a pleasant kind of laugh, "Needless to say, I don't take that kind of shit from anyone."
"You...killed him?"
Roxanne shrugs dismissively, her lower lip moving from side to side, "Sometimes, the Beast just...takes over and things get hazy." Not exactly a clear answer.
Markham points out, "I've met Brujah. I know that their Clan's Bane is their Violent Temper, quick to anger and passionate about whatever."
Roxanne shakes her head, her face full of bitter and resentment, "You really don't wanna go there with me, Markham. Really. Just...don't, alright? Like that Sire of yours said, I play the game of survival for 2 people- me and my sister."
She points a stern finger and adds, "If there's something I'm compelled to do to get money, I swallow my pride and I fucking do it, but there's so much more that I need, that I w--want."
Markham dryly tells her, "You don't owe me or anyone else an explanation, Roxanne. It's tough out there, I get it."
Roxanne narrows an eye at him and counters, "Do you really, though? See, a guy like you can look the other way when a bunch of these financial guys cheat the system and swindle and steal from the hardworking, but not a working gal like me, huh?"
"What are you getting at, Roxanne?"
"You've been in this city, what, a few nights? You've barely seen most of the horrors beneath its underbelly." The Rabble grits her teeth and looks away again. She clenches her fists and shakes her head.
She laughs in contempt and shakes her head some more, "If you wanna really get technical about it, then it's more than 'some financial guys' who're cheating the system and robbing us all."
"Go on."
Roxanne does so, every word dripping with bitterness and contempt, "The government here sucks- both state and local. The cops are gangsters with a uniform and a license to kill anyone who so much as looks at 'em in a funny way, the Governor and his cronies are all fucking in it and everyone knows it- they're in it to stay rich, and they stay rich to be able to do it more."
Markham reiterates, "I'm only here for Luciano and Paul. If there's dirt to be found on who you mentioned, then my co-workers at the SEC--"
Roxanne scoffs and angrily waves her hand dismissively, "Tch. The SEC. Gimme a break! You might think you're on some...some fucking moral high horse or something, but you're not. The SEC, the IRS, and everyone else are all fucking rotten to the core!"
Markham counters, "I know it's not pretty, but believe me when I say that many of us in the SEC really do care, but there are SO MANY hurdles that get in our way. You have no idea how hard it can be sometimes."
Roxanne calms down and sighs softly, "Yeah, I can imagine. Still, I--I'm a little sorry that I snapped at you there, but there's so much filth here, so much that it makes my blood boil sometimes. It's really disgusting to think about, honestly."
Markham subtly smiles, "You're Brujah, you have a Compulsion to takes a stand against whatever or whomever you see as...bad. Rebellion. As I said, I know some Brujah. Who knows, maybe whatever or whoever you're currently angry about is...justified in the long run." He gently folds his hands over his lap and gives Roxanne an empathetic look.
Roxanne blinks rapidly a few times and shakes her head, "Heh, yeah, maybe. Who knows. Personally, I get kind of tired of being so--so riled-up and angry all the time. I wish I was more Philosopher and less Punk at times."
(Both "Philosophers" and "Punks" are Nicknames for Clan Brujah, and both can apply at the same time).
Markham feels himself warming up to this Brujah sex worker. His shoulders aren't as tensed-up as before and his posture is a lot more relaxed in the cuck seat he's in.
He even says, "I think we've both got our fair share of anger issues." He smirks a little.
Roxanne nods in agreement, "Uh-huh, but we all got things to do and people to look after. I have a feeling you're gonna ask this, but no, I haven't ever thought or entertained the idea of Embracing Penny or turning her into a Ghoul."
"Why, though?"
Roxanne winces slightly, "Being a Cainite isn't for everyone, sugar. I fear that if Penny were to join our world, she wouldn't take it very well, plus, there's also the chance that she might never wake up after a hypothetical Embrace- it's simply a risk I'm not willing to take. Ever."
The Baali plainly nods in respect, "Understandable. If Dani were around, I'd probably have to hide from her and--and--" he stops and blood tears start to flow.
Roxanne gently reaches out to comfort him.
Markham covers his face with his hands and sobs, the tears of blood flowing freely down his cheeks, staining the palms of his hands red.
He can't help but recall what happened to his sister all those years ago. How she was simply crossing the road to the other side to get her dog, Snowy, when a fancy blue car sped up and drove straight into her.
It wasn't even a case of a car speeding through a red light or something, the car just came out of nowhere, without any warning.
"She--she didn't have any time to react or prepare, didn't even get the chance to--" Markham's words break between sobs.
He sniffs some more and Roxanne hugs him tightly, rocking back and forth with him, "I'm sorry, Markham." Her voice is full of sympathy for the Baali.
She knows full well what it's like to be a Cainite and lose someone, to live on forever in a world that's constantly changing, always moving, but without the people who you once held close to you.
It's surely a lonely and desolate existence, and there's a lot of pain involved, too.
She simply holds him and lets him cry it all out. Some of his blood stains her thighs, but she ignores that and brings his head to her chest and gently strokes his hair.
After a few minutes of sobbing and Roxanne holding him, the Brujah gently lifts up his chin with a finger and gazes into his sad gray eyes with her sympathetic brown ones.
She smiles a comforting smile, "Touching wasn't part of our deal, but you're hardly the first, sugar."
Markham blinks a few times and looks up at her, mouth slightly agape, the words unable to form, "I...uh, I'm sorry that--"
Roxanne interrupts him with a small chuckle and pats his cheeks, "It's alright, Markham. Honestly. You initially struck me as the strong, silent type, but that kind of bullshit leads nowhere- even men like you cry. Denying those feelings, or the tears that come with them, won't help in the long run."
"What--what should I do, Roxanne?" his voice is hoarse, his eyes bloodshot. He sounds so tired.
Roxanne gets off and sits back on the edge of the bed, "Follow up on the leads I've given you- those contract killers aren't the give-up-and-go-home types. They'll find you. So, you better find them- and deal with them- before they get a chance to do something to you and the ones you might care about."
The Baali nods in agreement and wipes his face with his handkerchief. He scrunches it up and shoves it back in his pocket.
Roxanne regards him for a moment and says, "Such wounds do not necessarily heal with the passage of time. It's doubtful if they ever heal at all."
"Mm-hmm. Tonight, I've opened up wounds that have been kept sewn shut for decades, so it's only fair that you tell me something about yourself."
"A variation of quid pro quo, huh? Well, I've already told you about my younger, now older, sister. Watching her age while I remained the same tore me apart, honestly. It's...kinda unfair when you stop and think about it."
"Yeah, immortality can be a bitch sometimes. We live through so many wars, political troubles, upheavals, disasters, and senseless tragedies. So many people being born, growing up, and dying, all in the blink of an eye...from our eternal perspective."
Roxanne chuckles and teases him, "Oh my, Mr. Reed, aren't we getting philosophical this evening?"
He faintly smiles at her, "Isn't that your Clan's specialty, philosophy?"
"Oh, please. I was a Literature Major before dropping out of college. And, I've already mentioned that I was Embraced in the 70s, like you. So, we kind of come from a similar time period, don't we?"
"I guess we do."
"Hmm, yes. After dropping out, I fell into a sort of disreputable bandwagon. And when I eventually went broke and lost everything, through no fault of my own, I had no other choice but to start doing...this, and it wasn't long before this became my life and my Unlife."
Markham questions, "So, your Sire was a client of yours??"
Roxy plainly nods her head, a painful smile forming on her face, "Mm-hmm. Some chick whose name and face I have truly forgotten. She paid me, we went to a seedy motel much like this one, took off our clothes and started making out, and the next thing you know I feel something like needles piercing my neck--"
She stops and gulps before proceeding, "--Next thing you know, I black out and wake up, totally naked. My head's pounding, there's this metallic taste on the tip of my tongue and my insides feel like shit. There's a handwritten note on my bedside table explaining the literal basics of my new situation. Bitch wrote it in cursive."
Markham shakes his head, "I'm sorry, I'm so sorry it had to be like that."
Roxanne looks to the side and bitterly grins, "Yeah, me too, heh. Hey, speaking of, how was your Embrace? Was it as feisty and sexy as mine??"
Markham twitches and gasps. For a moment, he goes completely blank and he doesn't say a word. Roxanne patiently waits for him to respond.
Finally, after some time has passed, Markham speaks up again, "My Embrace...my Embrace...I--I--"
"Yes?"
Markham shakes his head in refusal, "I--I don't know. I don't wanna--don't wanna go through it--remember--no. No, no, no!"
He put his hands on his ears, grits his teeth, closes his eyes, and mutters, "No. No, I don't wanna. I can't--I just ca--can't!"
Roxanne gets up and sits beside him, wrapping her arms around him, "Hey, hey. It's alright. Shhh, shhh. I'm sorry for bringing it up."
It takes time for the Demon to calm down. Roxanne rubs his back and gives him a look of sympathy. She's slowly starting to understand Mr. Reed's grief and anguish a lot better now.
It's only after a few minutes or so that Markham can talk again, "I--I--I don't want--don't want to go into specifics, I'm sorry."
Roxanne shrugs, "It's alright. So, where were we?"
"I believe you were telling me a bit about yourself."
Roxanne sighs, "Yes. What can I say, mmm? It was my economic circumstances that led to me selling my body, which would eventually lead to me in that motel room with the woman who'd go on to become my Sire and leave me to fend for myself in this strange and secretive world of things that go bump in the night."
"You could've asked your folks for help or money??"
The Brujah prostitute chuckles at Markham's question and shakes her head, "Sure, there might have been a time when meatpacking paid well, but THAT was definitely not the time, sugar. As it is, they dipped into Penny's college fund to put me through and I royally fucked the whole thing up."
"You went to college pretty late, huh?"
"Hmph, yeah. I was something of a late bloomer and Penny was always the one with the glasses while I was the one TP-ing random-ass buildings for shits and giggles."
"You feel some sort of guilt for failing your sister?"
"Uh-huh, something like that. By the time Hurricane Roxanne had fucked everything up, my parents could barely afford to feed my sister. I couldn't go back and face the music, I just couldn't, so I drifted off and sort of watched it all collapse...from a distance."
"What happened?"
Roxanne inhales and exhales sharply, "After our mom died, Penny ran away to try and find me. Dad...well, he committed suicide. I guess he was just done with all the bullshit, but Penny and I weren't even aware of that until later, much later...after we got the news."
"And then, she got sick and fell into a coma..."
A lone tear of blood falls from Roxanne's eye. Markham reaches out and wipes it away with his thumb, "Sorry. You--you don't need to continue if you don't want to, it's OK."
Roxanne holds back further bloody tears, "Honestly, when you first walked in, I expected the usual- blowjobs, some kissing, a little dirty talk, blah, blah, blah. I wasn't expecting..."
Markham offers, "A heart-to-heart? Yeah, me neither. The things I've told you about...I haven't spoken about them for a very long time. I have a mortal Touchstone named Jamie, but I can't talk about ANY of these things to her and as much I deny it, it's been tearing me apart."
Roxanne queries, "A Touchstone, huh? Good for you. Is she nice to you?"
"She's a good person."
Roxanne softly says, "That's good to hear. In my line of work, getting attached is...not ideal. And not just because I'm a Cainite and a harlot but because...I fear for anyone who might actually care about me."
"So, you keep your distance? How do your clients take that?"
"There's a reason why I stay away from Penny as well. The temptation to just lunge forward and Embrace her is--is too damn strong! Seeing her in that helpless, vegetative state is...almost too much for me."
Markham sighs, "Hmm, true. So, how many Havens do you have?"
The Punk sighs and lazily waves her hand, "Oh, please, it's nothing like that. 1 of my resting places is smaller than a fucking solitary confinement cell, but the dead can't really crib much, right?"
Markham nods in understanding, "Yeah. We're immortal and only need blood to keep us going. Complaining is almost...pointless, I guess."
Roxanne jokingly says, "Yeah, the whole blood thing really saves up on our grocery bills, huh?"
The Baali faintly chuckles at that, "Yeah, but our passports and taxes on the other hand..."
"Haha, yep. Then again, it's not like a gal like me is gonna be able to see the world. Even if I started saving up in a lil shoe box, I'd probably be a Methuselah before I broke even. Maybe older, assuming there's even a planet Earth by then."
Markham shifts uncomfortably in the cuck chair and shrugs, "Yeah, good point. Despite the immortality, we do have the whole time-is-of-the-essence thing going for us, huh?"
Roxanne dryly says, "It's not Gehenna or the Antediluvians awakening who are gonna be the end of us all, y'know. It's like TS Eliot said: 'Not with a bang but a whimper.' THAT'S how it all might end for us- Cainite, Changeling, Mage, Garou, the whole mushy and squishy lot."
Markham cocks his head to the side, "You really think so? How do you know for certain??"
"It's an educated guess and I admit that I might be wrong, well I kinda hope I am. Anyways, face it, sugar, you've only gotten a taste of this bitter city. I've been living in it night after night for years on end- it simply can't go on like this. Something's gotta give."
"Yeah, but the end of everything as we know it?? Seems a little...far-fetched."
The Punk rolls her eyes, "Mm-hmm. Yeah, well, think about some of the wars of the past century- that wasn't the end of OUR world, but from the perspective of its victims, it sure as hell felt like it."
Markham nods and stares at the floor in contemplation, "Hmm, true, it was certainly a world-changing event from their point of view."
Roxanne takes the moment to get up and stretch her legs. She twists and turns and pops her joints. She does a few leg stretches and leans against the wall. She looks out the window, wistfully and longingly.
Markham grimly remarks, "We were just kids when the atomic bombs fell..."
Roxanne sucks some air through her teeth and nods, "Mm-hmm. We're older than...the Internet, cellular phones, portable computers, and many other things that was supposed to make things easier...for all of us. It's--it's kinda crazy to think about sometimes."
Her voice is low, somber, and full of regret. There's pain in there, too. Pain and guilt.
She looks out the window for a while, watching everyone and everything happen below. She doesn't say anything. She doesn't turn around.
The Baali curiously inquires, "I never did get your last name?"
The Brujah takes on a more seductive inflection, "Nah, you'd be surprised by how a little mystery can spice things up, sugar."
Markham's eyebrows shoot up and he shrugs, "Fair enough."
Roxy hums and dryly states, "How many wars have there been from the time we were born, hmm? Apart from the Second World War--"
Markham cuts in, "Vietnam, Korea, Israel-Palestine, the Gulf War, the Yugoslav Wars, goddamn..." his lips shake a little and he looks down at his feet. He closes his eyes and breathes deeply. He exhales slowly. He doesn't look up. He just stares at the floor.
Roxy continues, "Don't forget the time we almost came close to nuking each other, pfft."
"Yeah. Scary times. I remember Daniella would often worry about it a lot. She'd talk to people in our town about it, try to organize meetings, she was...something else, alright. She was really worried about the whole nuclear thing. Everyone was. I guess some of us still are."
Roxy turns around and looks at him for a bit. Her expression softens and she purses her lips, "They called it Mutually Assured Destruction. I think the 1st 3 letters say everything- MAD."
"Mm-hmm."
Roxanne saunters back to the edge of the bed and sits herself down. She folds her hands over her lap and gently kicks her legs. She regards Markham and says, "If THAT was what the 20th century was like, then I dare not think what the 21st will be like."
Markham simply nods in agreement. He's not sure what else he can say or add. The topic is a morbid one, even for someone like him who has lived through all these decades of bloodshed, depravity, and violence.
Roxanne slides over to the nightstand near the bed, opens a drawer, and pulls out a Motorola StarTAC phone. She brandishes it around and grins mischievously, "A gift from a client of mine."
"Oh? Who, if you don't mind me asking."
Roxanne lazily waves her hand and inspects her phone some more, "A Lasombra lawyer named Titus. You know how terrible Lasombra are with modern technology, so he gave me this in exchange for...well, you can imagine it, sugar."
Markham's expression hardens when that particular Clan is mentioned. He faintly gasps and clasps his hands tightly together, lips slightly quivering, "A--A Lasombra?? Are you sure?" he quickly regains his composure and straightens his back.
Roxy looks up from her phone, "Huh? Yeah. Why? Is that a problem?" She notices the way he's sitting and smirks, "What's wrong, sugar? You look tense. Is there something you'd like to talk about? Did I say something I shouldn't have said?"
"No, no."
He quickly changes the subject by bringing up a personal question, "So, you're um...bisexual?"
Roxanne moues and shoots the Baali a suggestive, almost sultry look, "Oooooh, how does a good, sweet, and innocent, middle-class government employee know about these kinds of things, hmm?"
Markham answers, "My Sire, Burt. He's bisexual, or to quote him directly, 'I like them apples AND oranges, don't make me choose.'"
Roxanne heartily chuckles, "Oh, I'd very much love to meet him some night. As for me, well, I'm pansexual and I love apples, oranges, AND all kinds of other juicy fruits." She winks at him.
Markham cracks a very small smile and says, "You're an interesting woman."
"'Interesting'? Is that the best you can come up with, sugar?" she licks her lips and gives him a lusty gaze.
She playfully giggles and shrugs, "Oh, y'know, I was wondering--" Whatever she's about to say is interrupted by some commotion outside.
The Brujah sex worker grunts and gets up to go and see what's going on outside. Markham gets up as well and goes to stand beside her. The 2 of them peer out the window and try to find out what's going on.
A man in a fancy blue suit sets up a small speaker and starts singing into the mic, "Roxanne / You don't have to put on the red light"
(It's the song "Roxanne" by The Police. How...unusual.)
Roxanne massages the bridge of her nose and mumbles, "Oh, shit. Marcus. Great."
Marcus goes on, his singing terrible but loud thanks to the microphone he's using, "Those days are over / You don't have to sell your body to the night"
A few people stop to watch the spectacle. Marcus has a big smile on his face as he continues to sing and strut around. He even starts to do some weird dance moves.
Roxanne mutters under her breath, "For fuck's sake."
She sternly orders, "Markham, STAY here. I'll deal with this...and--and put an end to it."
The Brujah angrily marches down the steps while that awful singing (of a decent song, mind you) continues to assault her ears.
Roxanne's feet quickly take her to the ground floor. She clenches her fists and approaches Marcus. Without hesitation, she violently rips the wire that connects the mic to the speaker, tosses it aside, and gets all up in Marcus's personal space.
He gasps in shock and takes a few steps back. He seems to an African-American man of average height. He has olive skin and short, frizzy hair. He's in his 20s and wears a very expensive (likely custom-made) blue suit.
This mortal grips the Brujah by her shoulders and stares longingly into her eyes, "Roxanne! Roxanne! You don't gotta do this no more, girl. I can take care of you, I can--"
Roxanne growls and shrugs his warm hands off of her, "Shut up, Marcus. Just...stop talking."
(Marcus was a client of hers who might've ingested some of her Blood during horizontal tangoing, so he feels kind of attached to Roxanne).
Roxy shakes her head in disappointment and tells him, "I'm not interested, Marcus. I thought we made this clear last time."
Marcus's smile falters and his eyebrows crease in a look of desperation, "But--but--but I thought you and I had something going, Roxanne. Look, look--"
He grabs her by her cold hand and drags her to where a new, shiny Porsche car is parked. He opens the door to the backseat and gestures to the seats, "See this? This is for you, Roxanne. This can be yours, all yours! I--I bought it tonight! I didn't care how much it cost me! I didn't blink, I just...got it."
Roxanne snatches her hand away and glares at the mortal, "You can't buy me, Marcus. I told you that last time, too. Look, just...go home, OK?"
Some of the others have gathered around to witness this quasi soap opera unfolding. If Roxanne's face could redden in embarrassment, then it most certainly would.
Markham observes the whole thing from above, looking down at everything through the window. He doesn't leave the room, but he keeps on watching, feeling compelled to do so.
Marcus dramatically gets on his knees and pleads with her, "But, Roxanne! I--I love you! You don't have to wear that dress tonight! You don't have to put on the red light, girl."
The others start snickering and whispering amongst themselves. Roxanne's jaw clenches and she grits her teeth. Her face twitches and she starts breathing deeply. She closes her eyes, breathes out sharply, and looks down at the stockbroker kneeling before her.
Her voice is full of venom and her teeth are gritted, "Get up, Marcus."
He does so and smiles, "Oh, Roxy, baby, come with me. Forget this dump and these losers. I--I loved you since I knew you."
Marcus starts singing to her again, out-of-tune, "I wouldn't talk down to you / I have to tell you just how I feel / I won't share you with another boy"
Roxanne's eye twitches, she grabs him by his collar, and shakes him senseless, "Shut up! Shut up!"
She glares at everyone gathered, mouth slightly agape. Marcus dreamily smiles and whispers, "I know my mind is made up--"
Roxanne angrily screams into his face and shoves him against the car. She's about to rearrange his face with her fist when someone else grabs her and yanks her away from the stockbroker.
It's Markham and he silently shakes his head at her, as if telling her, "It's not worth it, calm yourself."
Marcus's jaw hits the floor and he asks, "Who's this fool? He--he a client that's been mistreating you, Roxanne? Huh?"
This guy takes a fighting stance and dances on the balls of his feet, "Well, c'mon, fool! I ain't afraid of you!" he goes forward and shoves the Baali down onto the ground.
Markham doesn't budge. Marcus gets more and more frustrated as the seconds tick by.
"You 'fraid of something, huh?! Well, come on then!"
Markham simply stares at him, unimpressed. He's had enough of this guy's antics. He turns around and goes back to where Roxanne is.
Marcus grabs him by the shoulder and spins him around, "Hey--" he's about to throw a punch, but Markham grabs his fist and glowers at the mortal.
He coldly warns him, "Don't."
Marcus tries to shake him off, but to no avail. The mortal grunts and tries to free himself, but Markham holds on firmly.
Roxanne grabs Marcus by his shoulders and hisses, "Get out. Leave!"
Markham lets go of Marcus and the latter forces Roxanne to accept the car keys and other things he got for her. He even says he's got an apartment picked out for them and their new "life" together.
Markham tries to dissuade him, "Don't bother, just leave."
Roxanne tells him, "You heard him, Marcus. Just go, alright? Take your stuff and go."
Marcus does the opposite of giving up. He repeatedly insists, "C'mon, Roxy. C'mon, girl. This ain't your place. I got us a sweet place up at the Prairie Ridge. We can--"
Roxanne snaps at him, "GODDAMN IT, MARCUS! DON'T YOU UNDERSTAND ENGLISH?! I DON'T WANT ANY OF THIS SHIT! I DON'T LOVE YOU! JUST LEAVE!"
She shoves him off of her and angrily marches back inside.
Markham regards the stockbroker with disdain, "You heard her. Go. Just leave."
Marcus shakes his head and sighs. The look of sadness quickly turns to fuming anger. As Markham walks away, Marcus furiously charges at him and tackles him to the ground.
Markham lands on his stomach and grunts in pain. Marcus gets on top of him and starts scratching and hitting him.
He curses Markham out and pummels him with his fists, "This is what you get! You hear me?! This is what you get, you--you fucking--"
Roxanne turns around and sees that Marcus is beating Markham up. For his part, the Baali blocks most of the mortal's attacks with his arms, but he doesn't fight back or even try to push Marcus off of him.
Roxanne's eyes widen in shock and she rushes over to them, "What the fuck are you doing, Marcus?! Get off of him!" she grabs the stockbroker by his suit jacket and roughly yanks him off.
Marcus grunts and falls on his ass. The others nearby laugh and point at this rich, out of touch guy trying to come here and buy a prostitute's love, only for it all to blow up in his face.
The stockbroker huffs and puffs. He dusts himself off and glares at Roxanne and Markham. He points a stern finger at them both and wags it around.
He warns, "Don't get in my way! And--and don't go near MY Roxanne again, ya hear me, fool?"
Someone from way back in the crowd calls out, "She ain't for sale, asshole!"
The others gathered (be they the sex workers who frequent this place or the surrounding areas, their clients, or just random drifters, etc.) start to jeer and make fun of Marcus.
They whistle and mock him, "Oooooooh! Boooo!"
Marcus glowers at all of them and curses them out. He points an accusatory finger at Roxanne, "I'll get you outta here, baby! I'll--I'll..."
Roxanne clicks her tongue and shakes her head, "You'll do what? Marcus, listen, this is who I am."
She widely gestures to the gathered crowd, "These are my people. I do what I do because I have my reasons. And I don't owe you or anyone else an explanation for what those reasons are. Whatever you think we had going on between us...never even existed."
The stockbroker's shoulders slump and his mouth hangs slightly ajar. He looks down and mutters something under his breath. He sniffs and shakes his head in disgust. He gives Roxanne a pained look, as if he's trying to ask her, "Why?"
Roxanne shakes her head, "You wouldn't understand it, Marcus. You don't know what I've been through, you don't know what anyone here has been through. You're just a rich guy who wanted to fuck."
She sneers at him and points at the Porsche he bought, "Take your fancy car and go. Now. Before I make you."
Marcus grits his teeth and clenches his fists. He turns around, kicks the front tire of his Porsche, and leaves without saying anything else. He leaves in another car after throwing the Porsche's keys on the ground.
Roxanne looks around and dryly offers, motioning to the car and the keys on the ground, "What are you all gawking at me for? Take it. Crash it, scavenge it for parts, sell it, I don't care."
She angrily mumbles, "Oh, goddamn it. This is so, so fucking embarrassing." She turns around and stomps back inside, followed by Markham.
"Roxanne, wait!" Markham follows the Brujah back up the stairs and into the room. She sits down on the bed and covers her face with her hands. She shakes her head and sighs.
Markham sits besides her (enough of the cuck seat for 1 night, heh) and awkwardly pats her on the back. He doesn't say anything. He just sits there in silence.
Roxanne sighs and rubs her face. She runs her fingers through her hair and says, "THIS is why I remain distant from all my clients, to avoid breaking their hearts or--or whatever."
"Understandable."
Roxanne bitterly chortles in between light sobs, sanguine tears slowly trickling down her cheeks, "This is...so embarrassing. And that singing? My god, it was so grating."
"..."
"I--I've been doing this for years. Fucking years, Markham! I--I didn't want to fall in love with any of them, but then...then Marcus showed up."
Markham asks, "What's so special about him?"
Roxanne grunt-chuckles and sniffs, "You saw what he was wearing? You heard what he said? He has money, lots of it. If I go with him, there's a good chance that I'll never EVER have to worry about Penny's care and medical bills again. THAT'S how rich he is."
She stops and looks down at the floor, "But, I don't know. I'm--I'm not sure if I want to do that. As much as I hate to admit it, I'm not doing so--so well right now."
"Does he know that you're a--"
"God no! I do my part in upholding the Masquerade because I don't need a visit from Sheriff Velma DuPont. God, I hate Ventrue so much. Even Antonio, our 'beloved' Prince is such a--a--"
Markham guesses, "An asshole? Yeah, I kind of got that impression, too."
Roxanne chuckles softly, "Careful now. You know how fragile Ventrue are. At least I know how fragile and...Arrogant they can be."
"Hmm."
The Brujah sighs deeply and heavily, "Looks like we might've went over our time..."
"I can pay--"
Roxy shakes her head and cracks a faint smile, "It's alright, Markham. Either way, I found our little...talk quite riveting. I hope you feel the same way."
She gets up and stretches her legs. She goes to her closet, picks out another dress, and slips into it with great ease. She turns around and tells the Baali, "It's almost time for me to start my night's work. Dicks to suck, pussies to lick, sweet nothings to be whispered, hearts to be broken...or mended."
Markham nods and stands up, "Yes. I'll let you get to it."
Before leaving, Roxanne gives Markham the address of a dive bar where a few of those hitters MIGHT be at. She warns him, "Be careful. In all likelihood, they'll know who you are, so watch yourself tomorrow night, alright?" she looks genuinely concerned for him.
The Baali simply nods again. He takes his leave, walks down the steps, and heads down the block. As he walks away, he looks back at the motel, wondering if Roxanne's gonna be alright.
Mr. Reed pulls out his Motorola flip phone and dials Diego's number.
It takes a while before the Gangrel picks up, "Ayo, what's popping, d-man? You call to tell me that you gonna do an adult sleepover with y'know who. Eh, eh?"
"No. I just finished speaking with her. I'll need you to come pick me up. Same place."
Diego wolf-whistles, "Whoa, you didn't get a piece of that, huh? OK, OK, fair 'nuff. Yeah, traffic's an absolute nightmare 'round here, so I'm gonna be delayed. You uh...think you can hold out by then?"
Markham replies, "Listen, Diego, if it's too much, I can always call a taxi or rent a car--"
"Naaah, don't worry, homes. I got you. Just stay put. Hell, if you got ants in your pants, check out the sights- y'know, take a picture in that crazy shirt of yours, sit at some restaurant and look at the menu, do some window shopping, all that."
"..."
Diego chuckles, "Hahaha! Listen, I'll try to get there ASAP, so don't get too lonely without me."
"Alright. Thanks," Markham ends the call and puts his phone away. He sighs and looks around, wondering what to do now. He knows that he should go after the people who tried to "kill" him, but he's not sure if he has the energy.
Tonight was...quite a lot for him, actually. Talking about Daniella isn't something he's done in a VERY, VERY long time. Masquerade to uphold, identity to maintain, and all that.
He slowly and almost aimlessly walks down the street, stopping every now and then to look at something (be it a TV or a shirt on a mannequin) that catches his attention.
A few hours later...
Roxanne has just finished seeing her last client for tonight. The 40-something man tosses some cash on a table and walks out in a huff. The Brujah stands up and wipes the cum off her face. She takes a shower, gets dressed, and grabs the cash.
She counts it and mumbles, "Not bad, not bad at all. Should cover Penny's bills and other expenses for the next few weeks, assuming there aren't any surprises. If not, well..." she shrugs and shakes her head.
She yawns and stretches her limbs. She cracks her knuckles and pops her dead joints. She takes a taxi to the apartment her sister is staying at. It's in a lower-middle class part of this crushing metropolis.
The dark brownstone building is about 13 floors high and pretty old. There's trash everywhere and graffiti on most walls. A few people loiter around, but they seem to ignore Roxanne as she makes her way to her sister's apartment on the 2nd floor.
Once she steps out of the creaky elevator, Roxy straightens up, tussles her hair, and fixes her clothes. She stops in front of room 204 and knocks on the door.
She knocks on the door and a harsh, but familiar voice asks, "Who is there?" the accent is nasally and Polish.
Roxanne smiles and responds, "It's me. Roxanne. Open up."
Miss Jadwiga is a nice Polish woman who watches over and takes care of Penny in the capacity of a nurse. She's plump, middle-aged, and has short, grayish hair. Her eyes are kind, but she's hard-working and no-nonsense when it comes to taking care of vulnerable patients (like Penny).
Miss Jadwiga is unaware of Roxanne's and Penny's relationship. The mortal is led to believe that Roxanne is a distant relative who simply wishes to take care of Penny.
Miss Jadwiga opens the door and gives Roxanne a warm smile. She's still dressed in her night gown, which is a long, white dress that goes all the way down to her ankles.
The Punk greets her with a tired smile, "Hello, Miss Jadwiga."
The nurse smiles back, "Miss Roxanne. Come in, come in." She ushers the vampire in and asks, "You want goulash? I make extra tonight."
As flavorful as her cooking is, the Brujah declines for apparent reasons, "Oh, that's so kind of you, but I already ate. Thank you, though."
Jadwiga narrows her eyes at Roxanne, "You never eat any of my cooking..."
Roxanne smiles nervously, "I'm a busy girl and sometimes, in the middle of my work, I get the munchies and I take a bite of whatever I can get my hands on. It's not you, it's me."
(That's...certainly 1 way a vampire sex worker can explain their eternal Hunger whilst keeping mortals in the dark, blissfully unaware, and none the wiser).
The mortal nurse shrugs and looks at Roxanne from head to toe, "You still smell like alcohol. You been drinking again, huh?"
Roxanne waves a dismissive hand at her, "Nah, nah. Don't worry about it. I'm fine, really. I don't drink. Maybe something--ah, never mind." She puts her purse on the table and smiles.
Miss Jadwiga bows her head and escorts Roxanne to her sister's room. Penny is on the bed, hooked up to all sorts of medical equipment and tubes. She has graying hair and is middle-aged. She looks quite thin and her skin is rather clammy.
Roxanne approaches her bedside and looks down at her comatose sister. The Brujah runs her fingers through her hair and smiles tenderly. She lowers her voice and gently whispers, "Hey, sis."
Penny doesn't respond.
Roxanne sits down on the chair next to her. Jadwiga leans against the doorway and says, "Still no change, Miss Roxanne."
Roxy sighs, "Hmm."
After a moment, Jadwiga returns with a mixing bowl. She's beating the batter like there's no tomorrow. She's making a cake or a pudding.
Roxanne gets up and joins her in the kitchen. She asks, "Need help?"
Jadwiga shakes her head, "No, no. Just sit. Relax. Take care of your relation."
"..."
The mortal nurse looks up from her mixing bowl and sees the sad look on Roxanne's face, "Is something the matter?"
Roxanne pats Ms. J on the back and shakes her head, "No. If you don't mind, I'd like a few moments alone with her. Is that alright with you?"
Ms. J plainly shrugs and continues whisking and mixing away, "It is your wish. If you need me, I'll be here."
"Thanks. For everything."
"Of course."
Before the Brujah is about to walk away, Jadwiga calls out, "Ms. Roxanne, wait!"
Roxanne turns around, "What is it?"
Jadwiga takes a teaspoon, swiftly scoops up whatever she's mixing, and offers it to Roxanne, "I want you to taste this for me. You do not know how many times my sons have snuck some of this batter into their mouths when they were younger." She chortles at that memory.
Roxanne chuckles and sheepishly declines, "Uh, I'm actually quite--"
Jadwiga shakes her head from side to side and insists, bringing the spoon closer to Roxanne and wagging it, "No, no, come now. Do not be worried about fat. It is better to be healthy than skinny like those models on TV and magazine, no?"
Roxanne's not about to snap at the nice lady taking care of her sister (like she did at Marcus), so she opens her mouth and lets Jadwiga put the spoon in. She forcefully swallows the mixture and nods, "It's good."
Jadwiga asks, "Do you taste vanilla in there? I added many tablespoons!"
"Yup."
The mortal nurse nods in approval and goes back to mixing. She doesn't say anything else.
In truth, Roxanne tasted nothing much but ash. Not Jadwiga's fault by any stretch of the imagination. It probably tastes heavenly, but it's not blood. And Kindred can only "hold" mortal food down for some time.
Some of them can barely hold it in and almost immediately regurgitate it as scarlet vomit. It's nasty, that's for sure. And Roxanne does feel her inner Beast already starting to signal its disagreement with Ms. J's mix.
Well, good thing there's a bathroom nearby.
Anyways...
Roxanne goes back to Penny's room. She sits beside her bed and looks at her sister, sighing heavily as she does so, "Hey, sis."
She tells her, "Hey, Penny. Hey. It's me...again. Yeah, I'm sorry I haven't been visiting you as often these past few weeks."
She takes Penny's hand into hers and holds it tightly. She doesn't say anything at first. She just sits there and stares at her sister, a broken and sympathetic look plastered all over her face. She starts crying and the tears are red. She sniffles and wipes them away with her sleeve.
Roxanne gently caresses Penny's cheek and whispers, "I miss you. So much. I met a guy tonight. Well, not like that of course, haha. We...talked. You came up and I saw a bit of myself in him and he likely saw a bit of himself in me, too. He lost someone he loved very much, too."
She pauses and looks down at the floor. She sniffs and clears her throat. She continues, "I told him about you. I told him about our parents. I told him about me. I don't know why I did it, but I felt like I could trust him. Not something easy in this...sordid and salacious line of work, but it was refreshing all the same."
Penny's chest gently rises and falls, the whirring and beeping sounds of the nearby medical equipment accompanying her. Her eyes are closed and she doesn't say anything. She just lays there. Unresponsive. Comatose. Inert. It's hard to look at her like this. It's VERY hard for Roxanne.
The Brujah whispers, "I'm sorry, Penny. So sorry for--for everything. I ask myself sometimes: 'Is it all worth it?' 'What would mom and dad think if they saw me now?' 'Am I doing enough?' 'Is there anything more I can or should be doing?'"
She shakes her head and chuckles bitterly. She's trying to hold back the bloody tears. She's trying not to break down completely. She's failing. Miserably.
A few droplets of blood hit the laminate flooring. Roxanne bends down and wipes them up with some tissue. She tosses the used tissues in the trash bin and sighs. She runs her fingers through her hair and looks at her sister again. She closes her eyes and breathes deeply. She exhales sharply.
She opens her eyes. She's still here. Still staring at Penny. Still holding her hand. Still trying to hold back the sanguine tears.
"Come hell or highwater, I'll do what I have to do to support you, to--to make sure that you always have everything that you need. I was even thinking of asking Ms. Jadwiga to--never mind."
Roxanne has been toying with the idea of turning Jadwiga into her Ghoul. She's not sure if she wants to go through with it, though. On the 1 hand, it would be an ideal solution to some problems.
On the other hand, she doesn't want to get the mortal nurse involved in this whole supernatural mess. It's complicated. It's...messy.
Roxanne gulps and banishes those thoughts for now, "Ah, never mind. I'm just grateful to have found someone as caring, compassionate, and considerate as her. Even if she can be a bit boisterous and stubborn at times." She chuckles softly.
The Punk spends the next few minutes rambling about this and that to her comatose sister. She's quite open about matters of sex and sexuality (it's her job, after all), but she opts to converse about other subjects like film, music, fashion, and so on. It's a pleasant conversation, albeit one-sided.
She also talks about the current state of the world and how it's not looking too good. Not at all.
The apartment that Roxy pays for is quite small- 2 bedrooms, 1 bathroom, and 1 kitchen. The windows are tiny, the walls are showing their age, and the flooring leaves much to be desired.
Getting the medical equipment up here was a challenge, to say the least.
It's the least Roxanne can do for her sister. It's what she can afford on her unpredictable income. Regardless, it's Roxanne's way of making amends, paying penance, or trying to desperately hold on to her Humanity.
As Roxanne is talking about a movie a client made her watch, Jadwiga knocks on the door and pokes her head in, a worried look on her face.
Roxanne puts on a smile and asks, "Is everything OK?"
"Can we speak outside?" Jadwiga believes that it's disrespectful and rude to convey bad news in the presence of someone in a coma. She believes it adversely affects the person and brings bad luck.
The Brujah nods and gets up. She tells Penny, "I'll be right back." She exits the room and closes the door behind her.
Jadwiga nervously gulps and delivers some terrible news, "Dr. Nash is dead."
Dr. Nash is not only a client of Roxanne, but he was also the guy who got everything here set up. He even comes by (every now and then) to check up on Penny and to make sure that everything is working properly. He's a kind man and Roxanne kept up her end of the bargain.
The Punk gasps and her eyes widen a little. She puts a hand on her mouth, "Oh my god. Well, did--did they say what happened to him?"
Jadwiga nods, "Tak (PL: Yes). Car accident. He was going to visit other hospital when he crashed into another car. He died on impact." She shakes her head and tuts.
Roxanne's expression falls. With Dr. Nash dead, she's already thinking and worrying about how (and who) is gonna check in on Penny, administer her meds, and make sure that everything is running smoothly.
Jadwiga does what she can, but she is no doctor.
Roxanne puts her hands to the sides of her head, exhales, and paces a tight circle, "What--what am I gonna do now? Oh, god. What am I gonna do?!" She's freaking out and panicking. This is NOT good. Not good at all. This is the last thing she needs right now.
Her Beast is starting to awaken and rumble within her.
Jadwiga strokes her chin, deep in thought. After a moment, she exclaims, finger pointing upwards, "I know a doctor!"
Roxanne's expression shows some hopefulness, "You do?"
"Yes, yes. His name is Dr. Collins. Good man. He has small clinic in city. I go there always."
"Is he...dependable?"
Jadwiga confidently answers, "Very much so. We will go see him tomorrow, yes? I will make appointment, OK? Do not worry, Miss Roxanne. It will be fine." She smiles and nods.
Roxanne sighs in relief and smiles back, "Thank you, Ms. Jadwiga. Thank you so so much." She gives the nurse a tight hug and goes back into Penny's room.
She sits down and holds her sister's hand again.
"Don't worry, Penny. It's gonna be alright. It's...gonna be alright."
The Punk spends a few more minutes with her sister. Before leaving, she runs into the bathroom and spews out a whole trail of scarlet vomit that's been building up in her undead stomach. She flushes it all down and goes back to Penny's room.
She kisses her dear sister on the forehead and waves goodbye to Jadwiga.
She walks out of the apartment complex and hails a taxi. She tells the driver her intended destination, leans her head against the rolled-up window and shuts her eyes. She's tired. So very tired. The ride is silent and uneventful. She pays the driver and gets out.
Roxy stands in front of a condemned building that has yet to meet the wrecking ball. Bureaucracy in this part of the world is slow, obtuse, and arduous. To the Unliving, that's an advantage.
The Punk looks up at the dilapidated structure and sighs deeply. The structure is about 15 floors high, covered in moss and other kinds of plant life, and the windows are boarded up. There's a large sign that reads "CONDEMNED" in big, bold letters.
Roxanne walks around the building and enters through a side entrance. She climbs up the stairs and goes to the 3rd floor. She looks around before forcing open a rusted door that scrapes against the stone floor. She walks inside and makes sure to close the door behind her.
The interior is dark, musty, and damp. The air is stale and the smell of rotting wood permeates the area. There's a lot of debris everywhere, from broken furniture to shattered glass.
Roxy checks to make sure that the windows are completely covered- she takes no chances and ensures that the thick blackout curtains do not permit even a ray of sunlight to ooze in. She turns on the lights and looks around.
What was once the promise of affordable housing is now reduced to a decrepit, decaying shell of its former self.
She goes into the bathroom and takes a shower, but the water barely comes and is kinda murky. After that, she puts on a night gown and walks into the bedroom.
She grimaces when she spots a dead cockroach being swarmed by ants. Roxanne crushes these insects with her foot, grabs a bunch of tissues, scoops up the crushed remains, and throws them away. She wipes her foot clean and lays down on the foldable cot.
It's not the most comfortable thing in the world, but it's better than nothing.
However, the mink blanket feels so soft against her cold and dead skin. It's got that red velvet cake color scheme to it and it was a gift from her client- a very elegant and classy older woman who wanted to give the prostitute something nice.
There's a stack of books right next to the creaky cot- a lot of classics from the likes of F. Scott Fitzgerald, Upton Sinclair, Mark Twain, Toni Morrison, James M. Cain, Charles Dickens, etc.
Roxanne picks up a half-torn copy of "Mildred Pierce" and starts reading through it.
Halfway through where she left off the last time she laid eyes on this book, she dryly remarks, "Oh, Veda...you bitch. You selfish, ungrateful, sniveling, little--" she angrily slams the book shut and tosses it aside.
She rubs her face and sighs. She stares up at the ceiling, deep in thought. She's too busy thinking about Penny, Marcus, Dr. Nash, Jadwiga, Markham, and all sorts of other things.
Far away from Roxanne's place of rest...
A woman in a leather jacket drives her car on the road. There's dry grassland as far as the eye can see. The sky is still dark and there's a slight breeze that carries the taste of ash and other unpleasantness.
This woman is dressed in a leather jacket, jeans, and boots. Her hair is tied into a low bun and she has a scar across her nose. She's in her 30s and has a stern look on her face. She looks like she means business.
She drives down the road and eventually stops at a small and unassuming building in the middle of nowhere. She gets out of her car and walks up to the front door. She knocks on it 3 times and waits.
A man in his 40s opens the door. He's wearing a black suit and tie. He has short, graying hair and a thick mustache.
"Boss is waiting for you. Usual place."
The woman curtly nods and briskly walks down a set of stairs that lead down to a dimly-lit office space. The sounds of the waves appear to be coming from a recording played on a nearby speaker. There's a large desk in the center of the room, and a man is sitting behind it.
Before the woman can even enter, Mr. Strickland speaks, his voice menacing and measured, "Ms. Green, do you have any intel for us?"
Ms. Green nods and slides a folder containing a bunch of photos across the table. Mr. Strickland opens it and starts browsing through it.
He raises an eyebrow and looks up at Ms. Green, "Interesting."
Ms. Green simply nods again.
Mr. Strickland leans back in his chair and strokes his chin, "Hmmm. How long did he spend with her?"
"About an hour, sir."
Those are pictures taken of Markham right before he went in to speak with Roxanne. Those assassins were trailing him (when they could) and keeping tabs on him and they've been doing so for quite some time now.
They're quite resourceful and are NOT to be underestimated.
Mr. Strickland asks, "Were you spotted?"
The pictures themselves are taken from a distance and from low angles. They're grainy and slightly blurry. They don't show much detail, but they're good enough to get the job done.
Ms. Green confidently answers, "No, sir, but I fell back as soon as some commotion erupted."
"And what kind of commotion?" Mr. Strickland leans forward and rests his elbows on the table, but his face remains partially obscured due to the lack of lighting in this space.
Ms. Green lowers her head, hands clasped in front of her, "I wasn't able to ascertain that, sir. I--I'm sorry."
Mr. Strickland raises his hand, palm facing outward, "You made a tactical retreat, Ms. Green. It's understandable."
Ms. Green gulps when she picks up on that bit of disappointment in her boss's voice.
Mr. Strickland continues, "Tell me, what do you make of this?" he holds up a picture of Markham speaking with Jane.
"Sir?" Ms. Green takes the picture and looks at it, eyes narrowed.
Mr. Strickland states, "This Markham Reed is an enigma. Daniel confirmed the kill, yet Mr. Reed walks around like a man who has never been shot at in his life."
Ms. Green asks, "Any news on what happened to Daniel Percy, sir? Is he still MIA?"
Mr. Strickland sighs a low sigh and shakes his head, voice laden with regret, "No body has turned up, none of his cards have been used, his apartment hasn't been visited, and none of our people have seen him. We have eyes everywhere, don't we, Mr. Green?"
Mr. Green steps out from a dark corner. He's tall, heavyset, and sports various Devil Dogs tattoos. He's wearing a short-sleeved shirt and formal pants. He firmly nods, "We do, sir." His voice is deep and hoarse.
Mr. Strickland continues, "I have no other choice but to declare that Daniel Percy is KIA. An unfortunate tragedy, but he knew the reality of what he was signing up for. He served his country with great valor and that gave him his purpose."
Mr. Green solemnly nods and crosses his arms over his chest.
Mr. Strickland tells Ms. Green, "I want you and the others to continue tailing Mr. Reed. Make sure you gather as much intel as you can, but keep your distance."
"Yes, sir."
Mr. Strickland also orders, "Given our recent failure, we're also switching to using color-coded names from now on. You know the protocols we have in place; stick to it, stay frosty, keep your heads on a swivel, and don't hesitate to shoot first. Am I clear?"
"Crystal, sir."
Mr. Strickland sniffs, "We will avenge our man, of that I have no doubt in my mind. And, don't worry, we will get to the bottom of what happened to Daniel. Mr. Green here has been polishing up on his...enhanced questioning methods, isn't that correct, Mr. Green?"
Mr. Green grins wickedly, "Gimme 5 minutes, some pliers, and a blowtorch and I'll get 'em singing like a choir boy being chased around by a priest, sir."
Mr. Strickland chuckles softly, "Oh, Mr. Green...ever the poet. This enigma, this fellow, cannot be allowed to live. We will get to the bottom of how he, somehow, managed to overpower a trained and seasoned soldier. Do you understand?"
Ms. Green nods, "Yes, sir. I won't let you down."
"Good. Now go. Keep me posted."
"Will do, sir." She straightens her back and salutes at him.
Mr. Strickland salutes back and sends her on her way. Once out of earshot, Mr. Green asks, "Sir, permission to speak freely?"
"Granted."
"Why the fixation on this Reed guy? We've got good contracts coming in, business has never been better, the men here have a reason to keep on fighting and serving their country. Why not just let him go? He's just another civilian."
Mr. Strickland glowers at Mr. Green, "Because, Mr. Green, I have a feeling that there is more to this than 1 mere SEC employee who we have been hired to deal with. Something big. Something that might threaten the very fabric of our organization. I want to know what it is."
"Are you sure it's the right call to be making, sir?"
Mr. Strickland narrows an eye and casts a sidelong glance at the tall man, "Are you insinuating something, Mr. Green? Hmm?"
Mr. Green shakes his head and straightens his back. He lifts his chin and firmly answers, "No, sir! I'm just saying that we have other fish to fry. We've got that other contract coming up with that--"
Mr. Strickland cuts him off, "And I want to make sure that we don't have any loose ends. As it stands, our organization boasts a 98.66% successful kill rate- a rise of 0.6% from the last financial quarter. That's good, but it's not good enough. Not nearly good enough."
"..."
Mr. Strickland sighs and leans back in his chair, "I want to make sure that this Reed fellow is dealt with."
"Understood, sir. We'll follow you to the ends of the Earth. Kill or capture, sir?"
"Reconnaissance. We simply cannot afford to lose another soldier. Let's wait and see what the others come up with."
"Affirmative, sir."
"Now go. Get ready for tomorrow afternoon. It's gonna be a busy one. 4 targets, 3 males and 1 child. In and out in under 5 minutes, no witnesses."
Mr. Green gulps but catches himself. He puffs his chest out, salutes, and sternly says, "Hooah! Semper Fi!"
Mr. Strickland smiles and salutes back, "Semper Fi, Mr. Green. Semper Fi. And god speed, soldier. Remember, you're still doing your country a great service. Under my command, you are making a difference. Know your purpose, soldier."
Mr. Green nods and walks away. He exits the building and drives off in his own car. Mr. Strickland sighs and shakes his head. He looks down at the picture of Markham Reed and glares at it.
He mutters, "You may have gotten lucky once, but you won't get lucky again. Whoever you are, whatever you are, wherever you hide, my men...and women will find you, and they will end you, Mr. Markham Reed." He sounds ominous and threatening when he says that.
Mr. Strickland tosses the picture aside and starts going through the rest of the photographs. He stops when he comes across a picture of Roxanne. He stares at it for a moment before putting it aside.
He mumbles, "Hmm. What a fine woman. I hope she doesn't wind up becoming collateral damage."
These hitters, much like Daniel Percy, will soon find out that that which is already dead cannot be so easily killed.
Unless they decide to bring in explosives (very likely), wooden stakes (not very likely), flamethrowers (not gonna happen), and the like. Until then, Mr. Strickland makes sure his people use silenced pistols, knives, and maximum situational and tactical awareness.
He wants to keep this as clean as possible and ensure that the machine of death and depravity continues running alongside (and a part of) the bigger machine of death and depravity- the United States Military-Intelligence Industrial Complex.
Oh, yes. Some of the contracts that come in are from the highest echelons of Pentagon itself (along with all the other nasty alphabet agencies). They're usually top secret and need to be handled with extreme discretion.
(Plausible deniability and all that shit).
Mr. Strickland has no problem with that. He has no problem ordering (or taking part in) killing whoever needs to be killed. His rationale is that he is merely following orders and doing his patriotic duty as a cog of the almighty American Empire.
Chapter 9: I Need a Doctor, Doctor, A Doctor Is What I Need
It isn't long before the great star of fire and heat rises above the horizon, illuminating the sky and bathing the world in its light. The sun is a powerful force of nature, one that Kindred must avoid at all costs.
Sunlight is deadly to them. It burns their skin and scorches their flesh. It weakens them and makes them vulnerable to attack.
Be that as it may, the Kindred in this city now succumb to the pull of the day-sleep. As the sun continues to scorch and bathe this metropolis, the Kindred lay as still as a statue and allow their Unliving bodies to go through the process of regeneration and "rest".
The Beast within each one of them is pacified, but it will have to wait until the sun sets for its sanguine treat. Until then, they lay there like the corpses that they technically are, their bodies unmoving and inert.
Mortals, on the other hand, ready themselves for the hot and sunny day ahead. They wash their vehicles, clean their houses, water their plants, mow their lawns, and get themselves prepared for another day at their offices, places of study, and other spots away from home.
They go to their destinations in cars and buses, traffic as dense as always. The sidewalks are crowded, traffic is awful, and there's a general sense of tension in this booming and bustling Midwestern metropolis.
LDJ actually manages to clean himself up. He puts on a dark-blue suit, butter-yellow shirt, and a gray tie. His hair is combed back and he puts on some sunglasses. He looks presentable enough for the investors' meeting.
He hops in his car, bites his lip in anticipation of what's to come and drives to pick Paul up. To Luciano's surprise, Paul is watering his plants, wearing his boxers and nothing else.
"HEY! GET FUCKIN' READY! WE GOT A MEETING TO GO TO!"
Paul lets the dripping water drench his boxers and the lawn as he slowly looks up from the flowers and at his best friend.
Paul groans and groggily mutters, "I told you to give me a call to wake me up. I would've--" he yawns, stretching his arms and cracking his back, "--gotten ready in a bit."
Luciano exits the car and yanks the hose from Paul. He aims it at his face in an effort to get him to move. Paul ducks out of the way, turns off the faucet, and tells his best friend, "I'm up, I'm up!"
Luciano shakes his head, "Jesus. How much did you sniff last night?"
Paul snorts and waddles back inside his house. He returns after a few minutes, looking even more wild and bewildered than ever. He's got a brown jacket and pants on.
He rubs his face and groggily says, "I uh...went through the last of my stash. I um...even gave the neighbor's kid some."
"What the fuck?! You gave coke to a kid?!"
Paul calms his best bud down, hands out in a placating gesture of sorts, "What?! No. I mean, she's basically gonna turn 20 next week, so not exactly a 'kid' by the definition of this state's laws. She asked me if I had any coke lying around, I asked her if she wanted a bump, she said yes, so I gave her a bump."
LDJ's eyebrows shoot up momentarily, but he quickly shrugs indifferently, "OK...um, sure."
Paul sniffs a few times and rubs his nose over and over again, "Look, she wanted some. I hit my stash and gave her some. Speaking of, we uh...need to pay Marco a visit tonight."
Luciano chortles, "You fuckin' dope fiend. You actually went through a whole goddamn pound of freeze in under a week, huh?"
Paul awkwardly grins and adjusts his hair. He bolts to his fridge, pulls the door open, and takes a few messy gulps of some Gatorade. He then wipes his mouth with the sleeve of his jacket. He hiccups and groggily responds, "Um...I did? Yup. I sure did. Hahaha! Wow, um, I can't believe I did that. Wow. Hahaha!"
"Yeah. Ha-ha. I fuckin' hate Marco's place. Can't you find someone else to buy your mojo from?"
"I tried asking a few Cholos, but they looked at me like I was a fucking clown."
"Haha!"
"Anyways, he--he's the only one who can hook me up, man. And, I can afford his prices."
"Right," LDJ sighs and runs a hand over his face, "Yeah, alright. We'll see that bum tonight."
"Thanks, man. You're--you're the best."
"Don't mention it."
With that, the next 20 or so minutes is spent in grueling traffic. The hot sun beaming down isn't doing anyone any favors, either. Thankfully, LDJ's car has a working A/C.
Luciano sighs as the cool and conditioned air caresses his face. Paul is as twitchy and jumpy as ever. With no snow to keep him going, he starts sweating bullets. He keeps on messing with his nose and mouth.
After 10 more minutes of painfully slow and excruciating driving, Luciano eventually parks his car. Both men exit it, sweat dripping off Paul's forehead as they make their way towards the building in front of them.
They stand in front of the skyscraper that, from their perspective, reaches into the high heavens. They're in the financial district of Flimont City. There's a bronze statue of a bull that pigeons have already begun to treat as a free toilet.
A lot of businesspeople rush out, all of them sporting suits and fancy accessories. It's the picture of 9-5 hustle and bustle. There's even a security guard posted near the door. He's got a potbelly, is quite tall, and is dressed in a blue uniform with a matching blue cap.
Luciano waves at him, "Eyyy, Chuck!"
Chuck curtly nods, "Mr. Donovan. Mr. Cho."
Luciano playfully smacks the guard and asks, "So, how's life, huh?"
Chuck looks straight ahead, "Any day now, sir. Any day now." He's got that spaced-out look of someone who's just trying to get through the day and get paid. He's doing the most and getting the least.
"Yeah, same here, buddy. Hey, did you watch the game?"
Chuck nods and says in a deadpan tone, "Oh, yeah, absolutely. I watched it in the few hours of sleep I manage to get."
Paul's movements are very erratic and he starts to rub his hands together.
Chuck nods over to P-Money, "What's wrong with him?"
Luciano puts on a smile and tries to reassure Chuck, "Nothing, nothing. He's been up all night getting shit ready for the investors' meeting. Uh...11th floor, right?"
Chuck pointedly answers, "I'm not your secretary, Mr. Donovan--Hrmf, yes, the investors' meeting is on the 11th floor. Do you want me to hold your hand and escort you up there, too?"
Luciano snickers, "Yeah, and buy me a fucking lollipop once we're done. Can the sassy attitude. You're not even a fuckin' rent-a-cop."
Chuck has heard a lot worse from the rich boys (and gals) who go through these revolving doors every day. A lot worse.
For now, he sighs and lets the 2 cocky guys in. As they're going through the scanners, he mutters, "Don't get your fancy ties caught in anything. Especially you, Cho. Bunch of fucking pricks."
Once through the scanners, the duo stop and take in their hectic surroundings. The black marble floors are polished and reflective. The walls are high. Pillars of polished granite jut out of the ground and reach upwards.
People are hurrying to their offices, looking through files, sipping on coffee, talking to their friends on the cellular phone, or checking their watches. The sound of their footsteps resonates throughout the spacious lobby.
After an elevator ride up, the duo now find themselves standing in the conference room on the 11th floor. Their shoes scrape against the crimson carpeting. There's a long and narrow table in the center, a projector mounted on the ceiling, and various artificial plants scattered throughout the space.
The room is air conditioned. There are windows that afford a clear view of the city skyline, but they are shuttered with curtains and the only light source is the bright, fluorescent lights emanating from strategically-placed tube lights.
They're not too bright, but they're certainly not dim. There are a few already present.
Paul puts on a wide and awkward grin and cheerfully exclaims, "Hello, everyone!"
A woman's voice curtly remarks, "You're late."
Luciano interjects, wearing a more professional smile, "Traffic. And we got held up by security."
An older man's more polished voice states, "You can never be too careful, Mr. Donovan. Especially these days."
LDJ motions to Paul. The latter clears his throat many times, his eyes darting about the place. He feels the eyes of the investors stabbing him like daggers.
Paul smiles and says, "OK, so...the presentation. I to--took the liberty of emailing them to your assistants. I um...assume you've received them??"
A young man in a polo shirt lifts his hand, "I did not."
Paul winces and stifles a groan. He quickly catches himself and forces a smile, "Oh, I see. Are--are you sure, um, mister...?"
Mr. Polo shirt looks a little annoyed, "Ericsson." He has a slight Swedish accent, but it's very faint.
He dryly adds, "I have a very important game of golf soon. I will let it slide. For now. Make sure that it does not happen again, Mr. Cho."
Luciano reassures Mr. Ericsson, "Yeah, yeah, totally. It won't happen again." LDJ subtly shoots his buddy a dirty look.
Mr. Cho makes sure that the investors have seen and perused the presentation before launching into it. He goes over the data, figures, and various graphs he had spent a whole few hours meticulously working on.
Luciano, being the man with the big mouth, handles a lot of the talking while Paul erratically clicks on the remote. Sometimes, he skips a slide and has to be told to go back.
Yikes.
Without his white powder, he's practically falling apart.
A woman named Kate asks the tough questions. She wonders how the yields and returns can be this high. She even remarks, "If it's as good as this, then I might seriously consider taking all my money out of Madoff and investing it with you wonder boys."
Luciano grins upon hearing that, "Oh, we'd love that, wouldn't we, Paul?"
Paul seems to be in the middle of an Olympics-level staring contest with the crimson carpet that lines the floor of this room. His mind is a million miles away. His eyes are glazed over and he's twitching a little.
LDJ is getting red in face. Paul eventually catches himself, coughs, and clears his throat. He chuckles nervously, "Uh, yes, yes. Yes, yes. Sure, absolutely, Tammy. We can get right on it."
A man near the end of table shakes his head, "Tammy is not here, Mr. Cho. She's in Vegas. Is everything alright with you? You look a little...under the weather."
Luciano facepalms. He shakes his head and clicks his tongue, "Look, Paul's been really busy getting everything ready for today's meeting. He uh...he put a lotta work into the presentation. So, if you'd turn to page 12 of your handouts, you'll find more details on how we do things."
Soft mumbles and mutters fill the room. The gentle sounds of pages being turned follow thereafter.
Kate then asks, "Is everything above board and on the level, gentlemen? How can I be so sure that I'm not getting scammed? The numbers look too good to be true. If projections are right, you'll be outdoing Madoff in no time."
Paul swallows and responds, "Yes, yes--yes. It's all totally legal. We're both licensed and all our bases are covered."
An older woman leans forward, her elbows on the table. She inquires, "I hear that there's rumors of the SEC sniffing around. Cause for concern?"
LDJ quickly shakes his head and replies, "No, no, not at all." His tone belies that answer.
The older lady presses on, "I find that a little hard to believe, Mr. Donovan. The SEC doesn't take these sorts of matters lightly. And, if there's any truth to that, we'd want to know beforehand."
A man in a tweed suit claps back at her, "You mean before getting all YOUR money out? Pfft, come on, Elizabeth, we're in good hands here. I mean, he's Luciano Donovan's fucking son for fuck's sake!"
Elizabeth presses her lips into a thin line and nods plainly, "Hmm, so it is. The only question remains: how far has the apple fallen from the tree, hmm?"
Luciano Donovan Junior scratches his eyebrow and refrains from grunting in annoyance, "I'd like to think that I'm my own man, making his own way in the world, y'know."
The rest of this snoozefest drags on for 90 (or so) minutes. By the end of it all, the investors remain satisfied that their money is in good, capable hands.
As a token of appreciation, LDJ offers to buy everyone lunch at The Heartland Grill And Bar. Some decline whilst others take him up on his offer...provided he pays.
Luciano smugly shrugs and grins, "'Course I'm fuckin' paying! I got money, lots of it!"
They say they'll meet him there and get going. Luciano is left alone with Paul in this conference room, tension and uncertainty lingering in the air.
Paul starts pacing around, "I'm gonna head to the restroom to...wash my face. Oh, shit, that was--"
Luciano has a bitter scowl on his face, "Fuckin' terrible! What the fuck is wrong with you, huh? I thought you had this in the bag! Instead, I had to chase after you and wipe the shit off the floor!"
"Dude, I'm so, so sorry. I--I messed up!" Paul gulps and averts his eyes.
"Messed up? MESSED UP?! Paul, you should be glad that these people care about 1 thing and 1 thing alone- money. You could snort a line of blow from here to goddamn Mississippi and they wouldn't even give a shit! All they care about are results."
He forcefully adds, getting right up in Paul's face, "As long as they see the numbers in their accounts getting fatter than a schlub at a hotdog-eating contest, they DON'T CARE if you snort blow or even if you shot someone and ran over their grandma afterwards."
Paul shakily nods, "So, we--we get the stuff in the night, right?"
Luciano sighs, "Yes. We get the stuff in the night cuz, from where I'm standing, it's the only fucking thing keeping you...functional."
LDJ pokes his friend and sternly says, "I don't want a repeat of this mess, Paul, OK?! Today was a fuckin' disaster. We should be thankful that everyone else here's got a...similar habit to you. Or worse."
Paul mumbles, "Tch, yeah. Or worse."
Luciano sniffs and shakes his head, "Now, go on. Wash up. I'm hungry."
Paul meanders off to the bathroom, it's quite fancy, with automatic dispensers, dryers, and taps that sense movement. Whoa, crazy.
Bless his lucky stars. Some bozo left a small baggie of cocaine hidden under a toilet. Paul's eyes light up like he's won the lottery. He zips up his pants and grabs that little transparent baggie of the sweet stuff.
Finders, keepers. He pushes the bathroom stall door open and empties the contents of the baggie onto the marble counter of the sink.
He gets out his credit card and starts dividing the powder into thin lines. He pulls out his dollar bill and starts snorting away like a maniac. After that, he throws his head back and grunts in satisfaction.
The colors become clearer and more saturated. Sounds are louder. Smells are sharper. Senses that were otherwise dull due to withdrawal are almost instantly sharpened.
Paul, after all, likes to describe himself as a "high-functioning addict." After getting his hit, he carelessly tosses that baggie into the small bin near the exit.
To his surprise, the only things in that bin are similar-sized baggies, all with faint traces of the good stuff on them.
A journalist (an honest and intrepid one, that is) would have a field day with the contents of the bin in the men's bathroom on the 11th floor of an important building in Flimont City's financial district.
Whether any such journalist rises to the call remains to be seen. Journalism (of the good and relevant kind) is a risky profession as of late.
In time, Paul and Luciano are on the road once again. They arrive at the restaurant, have a wild time, and LDJ eventually foots the bill. In a place like The Heartland Grill And Bar, bills usually start at 5 digits.
Sometimes, they even go up to 7 digits because some rich, coked-out idiot keeps swiping their card (or cards) and offering booze to the whole fucking restaurant.
Despite the (obvious) profitability, the employees of the aforementioned establishment can barely afford to make rent, pay off their debts, and keep afloat.
It's a great time to be alive.
Elsewhere, in an opulent (and secluded) part of this damn city...
The mansion is said to 1 of the biggest ones in F-City. There's an iron gate that serves as the barrier between this grand structure and the outside world. There's also a large wall surrounding the grounds.
In fact, it's so big that it makes the mansion seem more like a palace than anything. There's an elaborate and colorful garden, complete with a hedge maze, marble statues, fountains, a swimming pool, etc.
Armed security watches the place 24/7/366. A golf cart takes visitors (and others) to and from the premises.
This is where Marcus (yeah, him) lives along with his family (well, most of them, anyway).
After last night's embarrassment, Marcus is sitting in the gaudy and elegant dining room, absentmindedly staring the thick tomato soup in his porcelain bowl.
The dining table is long and narrow. Marcus sits opposite his grandfather, Clarence. Marcus's half-brothers sit to the right and left of him. It's brunch time.
Tequan sits to the left of Marcus. He's in his late-20s and sports a short haircut. His face is round and his beard is neatly trimmed. He's dressed in a fancy green suit and is in the middle of slurping down some soup.
Quincy sits to the right of Marcus. He's got a much more square face and is bald, but sports a very impressive beard. He's dressed in a dashing black suit. He's in his 30s.
Clarence is the iron-fisted patriarch of the family. He's a tyrant in all but name. He looks very old and bitter. He's quite thin and is wearing a fancy robe. He's got blackheads all over his face.
There are several individuals present who serve as the wait staff. They are wearing black and white uniforms and carry themselves with an air of respect and politeness.
Clarence is drinking his soup. His mouth is downturned in a scowl, wrinkles visible all over his face.
He glowers at Marcus, "What are you sulking for, boy? Eat your damn soup."
Marcus huffs and continues making circular motions in his soup. He avoids eye contact with his granddad.
Clarence bangs on the table, the cutlery rattling, "Eat your damn soup, boy!"
Marcus twitches a little. His eyes immediately flicker over to the empty seats near his half-brothers. Marcus's dad is away on business.
Tequan and Quincy exchange a brief look. Marcus's face flushes in embarrassment, his heart is racing and he can feel beads of sweat forming on his forehead.
He clenches his fist. He wants to fight. He wants to shout, to scream. He wants to get up and slam the door.
Clarence's voice is low and menacing, "I ain't gon' ask again, boy. Eat. Your. Damn. Soup."
"No."
Tequan wipes his mouth with a soft napkin and giggles, "Ooooh, you in trouble now."
Clarence snaps, "Shut up, Tequan!"
Tequan lowers his head, but an ever-so-subtle smirk dances on his face.
Marcus can't help but glare at Tequan, but the latter pays no mind. Marcus looks back at his grandpa and shakily says, "N--no."
"Boy, I'll get over there and whoop your--"
Marcus interrupts him, "I ain't a 'boy' no more. And you...you can't even go the fucking bathroom without 3 people assisting your old, crippled ass."
Quincy clicks his tongue and grimaces, "Damn, son. Ease up on the sass, alright? What--what's gotten into you all of a sudden, huh? You been acting like a fool since last night."
Clarence growls, "That's cuz Marcus here was out chasing after some whore. Bought her a fancy car and shit. Oh, yeah, I got eyes and ears everywhere, boy. Don't you forget that."
Tequan snickers, "You did what?! Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, back the fuck up. You bought a car for a goddamn hooker? Damn, she must be 1 fine-ass shawty for you to be spending THAT kinda money. I know you, Marcus. You don't get no junkers, hahaha!"
Clarence speaks up, "Fool went and bought a goddamn Porsche for some she-devil whore."
Marcus gets angry and slams the table with his fist. His face turns red as he shouts, "That's none of your business, gramps! You...you have no fucking right to speak to me like this! You don't run my...or our lives no more!"
Clarence snorts, "You ain't never gave no good reason why I can't speak to any of you like the damn fools you are!"
Quincy objects, "Grandpa!"
Clarence scoffs, "Shut up, Quincy. All you boys, a bunch of fucking mulattos. Too many of my boys, your daddy included, jumping in and getting all up in that buttermilk. Now, look at what I have to deal with on a daily basis!"
Marcus scrunches his forehead, "Oh, god, not this conversation again."
Tequan gingerly mumbles, "It's not our fault that our dad slept around with a bunch of poor white women..."
Quincy shakily adds, "Hmm, that's only cuz grandpapi here wouldn't stop talking shit about black women. Dad learned it all from him, huh?"
Clarence angrily grumbles, "And where is your mother now, Quincy? Still in some godforsaken trailer park in Alabama? You boys should be grateful that I told your dad to do right by me. Now, finish your fucking soup."
Quincy's lips shake, "She--she--she's--" for whatever reason, he cannot bring himself to complete that sentence. He looks down and continues eating his soup, the sounds of slurping echoing throughout the room.
Tequan clears his throat, "At least I know my momma is still kicking, haha!"
The old man snaps, "Shut up, fool."
Marcus refrains from any more remarks. He begrudgingly eats the tomato soup, but the overall atmosphere in this room almost turns the soup into raw sewage when it makes its way down his throat.
He tries to change the subject, "So, how's it going? How's the chiropractor business going, Tequan? All good? Any important clients? I heard you met Britney Spears at a party! How was that?"
Tequan grins from ear-to-ear, "Oh, yeah, man! She came in and she looked so beautiful. Her hair was so perfect and her makeup, oh her makeup--"
Clarence groans and mutters, "Tequan, cut that faggot shit. I don't need to regurgitate my lunch all over these shiny floors. What, you a damn hairstylist or beautician or something now, huh?"
Tequan is gay and is actually dating a hairstylist, much to the chagrin of the older members of his family (dad and grandpa in particular. His mom is the only person who encourages and supports him).
Tequan grumbles, "Yes, gramps." He meekly resumes eating his soup, head and eyes lowered.
Quincy then speaks up, "Ah, yeah. Work's going great. As you all know, I'm now the CFO of Gen4 Security. With my vision and my ideas, we are fully poised to dominate the security industry! As you also know, I just bought my dream home in Hawaii!"
Quincy shows off some hardcopy photographs of his fancy house, and rambles on and on about various features. His granddad looks happy enough.
Marcus nods along and congratulates his half-brother.
Clarence fixes all his attention on the man opposite him, "And what about you, boy? You making something of yourself?"
Marcus sighs softly and gets a tad bit defensive, "'Course I am! I'm a stockbroker and things haven't been better. My returns have been increasing, we're getting a bunch of new clients almost everyday, a--and things are going good."
Marcus can't help but remember what happened with Roxanne. He feels the pangs of shame, regret, and humiliation. His granddad picks up on the change in Marcus's demeanor.
Clarence motions to Tequan, "He makes a 110,000 dollars a year doin' his back-breaking, neck-twisting, chiropractor shit."
He then motions to Quincy, "He makes a 150,000 dollars a year as the CFO of Gen4 Security. Plus bonuses and stock options."
Marcus's expression hardens, "Yes. I know that. What's your point, grandpa?"
"And how much are YOU currently making?"
Marcus's eyes dart about. Neither of his half-brothers are interested in supporting him right now. Both of them have their chins raised, a somewhat smug look on their faces.
Marcus tries to put on a strong face, but it's very obvious that he's faltering.
Clarence adds, "You know what your problem is? You too much like that mamma of yours. Too soft, too weak. I need someone tough and hard. You fallin' for a whore of all people. I know Tequan ain't givin' your daddy no babies, but even he don't go around digging in the gutter like that."
Quincy clears his throat, "That's enough, grandpa. We get it. Marcus hasn't exactly lived up to this family's high standards...and demands."
Marcus finally gives in and mumbles, "I'm making...95,000 dollars a year."
In this family, anyone making under 100 grand a year is considered a failure. A granddaughter was disowned and ultimately driven to suicide for not earning at least a hundred thou.
Quincy shakes his head, "That's...disappointing."
Tequan dryly adds, "That's pretty bad, even for you. Hahahaha, damn, girl, you poor! P-O-O-R. Poor, hahaha!"
Marcus frowns at him, "Oh, shut the fuck up, Tequan. All you do is get all handsy with a bunch of people and push bullshit remedies that don't do SHIT!"
Quincy cuts in, "Easy, boys. Easy. Let's not turn this delightful summer brunch into our very own episode of the Jerry Springer Show, heh." He snickers at his own joke and adjusts his collar.
Tequan claps back, "Well at least it's better than playing with other people's money! I MAKE money! I touch people and help them feel better!"
Marcus leans forward and shoots back, "You're just a fucking glorified massage therapist at 1 of them Asian places. Dog, you ain't even licensed and the only people that come in and out of your office are lonely-ass men trapped in unhappy, dead-end marriages!"
Quincy whistles, "Ooooh, Tequan. You're not actually--"
Tequan shoots down the insinuation, "Fuck you, Quincy. NO, I'm not. I have more self-respect than that. I like Enrique. I don't--oh, god, why am I doing this? Am I actually discussing THIS with--with you people?" he grimaces at the very thought of divulging stuff related to his private life.
Clarence's face scrunches up, "I don't need to know who you foolin' around with, Tequan. Keep that shit to yourself. So long as you live up to the standards of the Lancaster family name, I don't give a good goddamn what you do. Oh, yeah, Quincy's got himself a new woman. She's a lawyer."
Tequan gasps, "You cheating on Veronica, man? Aw, that's fucked up, man! Why you wanna do a nice lady like that?"
Quincy dryly states, "We split up, fool. A week back. So, I'm seeing this lawyer chick now. She's Asian. I know grandpapi here likes them Asians..."
A lecherous smile forms upon Clarence's face, "I sure do. If only your daddy was still young and virile, then maybe he can find himself a nice, submissive Asian and gimme some grandkids who ain't total goddamn failures." He looks directly at Marcus while uttering this bile.
Marcus glowers at his granddad, "Yeah, well Laurence ain't here, is he?"
(Laurence is the dad to these 3 fine boys. Each of them have a different mom, though. Mr. Lancaster was quite the philanderer back in his day).
Clarence grumbles, "He's busy, boy. Unlike you. What, you gon' be out there makin' money or what?"
Marcus lowers his head. The old man smirks and says, "That's what I thought."
Marcus takes a moment to look up at the chandeliers that are hanging above their heads. He's tired of this conversation. He's tired of this treatment. Sometimes, he even tires of his entire family.
They treat him like dirt, like he's less than nothing. All because he doesn't make as much money as his half-brothers do. Or rather, they make more money than him. He hates it so fucking much.
Clarence speaks to Quincy, "Like I was saying, boy. You and this Asian woman better be giving your daddy some grandkids, you hear?"
Quincy nervously laughs at that, some soup spilling down his chin, "Haha. Uh...su--sure. I mean, right now, it's pretty uh...not serious."
Clarence emphatically commands, "Well, get serious, boy. You ain't getting any younger- the sooner you have them kids, the sooner you'll feel complete, happy, and fulfilled!"
"Oh, trust me, grandpa. I--I'm working on it."
Tequan mutters, "Working on what? You got no game, playa. No G-A-M-E, hahaha! It's like you think you're actually going to make her your wife or something. If you screwed the pooch with Veronica, what luck do you think you'll have with um...what's her name?"
Quincy shoots Tequan a baleful look, "Kim. And I'd really appreciate it if you'd keep your nose outta my private affairs. Besides, you don't know nothing about pleasing no woman--"
Tequan raises a finger and wags it, "Oh, don't you go there, Quincy."
Marcus looks down at the shiny and polished floor, seeing a faint reflection of himself, "Oh, god..."
Clarence bangs the table with his palm and demands, "Shut up, fools!"
Marcus retorts, "You wound 'em up and started it!"
"It don't matter. So, Quincy, where's this...Kim from, huh?"
Marcus snarks, "Asia's a pretty big place, grandpa."
The Lancaster family patriarch sternly warns, "Oh, don't you get all educated with me, boy. Maybe put that big-ass head of yours to making more money, then--"
"Whatever," Marcus resumes eating his soup. He's almost done. He wants to leave. He wants to drive off somewhere and never come back. He's ready to do anything to forget about the utter bullshit he has to deal with everyday.
Clarence frowns, "Don't you interrupt me when I'm speaking. You know, you sound just like your mother. You fucking look like her, too..."
Marcus sourly chuckles, "Yeah, I do, duh."
Tequan giggles, "Oooh, you in trouble."
Grandpa smacks the table with both his hands and springs up, but he's so weak and frail that he falls back onto his chair, grunting and groaning in the process. Tequan rushes over to help him, but the old man shoos him away.
Tequan mutters, "I was just trying to help, gramps."
Quincy adds, "Easy, grandpa. Easy. Why don't we ask to see if the main course is ready, OK?"
Someone is summoned and queries are made regarding the status of the main course. Today's special is some steak tartare with Basmati rice, leeks, and some other fancy stuff.
Clarence angrily mumbles, "Goddamn cooks and their goddamn slow-ass shit. How much longer, huh? I'm getting HUNGRY here!"
Marcus is about to open his mouth with another clever comeback when Quincy shuts him down with a firm and unyielding glance. Tequan snickers at this silent exchange and shakes his head.
Quincy leans forward and asks his brother, "What's up with you today, Marcus? You've been acting like a real fool as of late. What's going on?"
Marcus's eyebrows furrow, "Nothing is 'going on', alright? I'm just sick of...this. I'm sick of everything."
Tequan points out, "It's that hooker he's obsessed with. You don't buy a fucking Porsche for someone unless you REALLY, REALLY care about 'em, hmm?"
Marcus nods and follows it up with a sad sigh, "Hmm, yeah, Roxanne...god, I can't stop thinking about her..."
Clarence jumps in after finishing his soup, "You bring a harlot into this house, boy, you better hope she submit to her man like the Bible says. Ain't no Jezebels setting foot on my property, you hear me?"
Tequan laughs, "Pfft, yeah, right. Remember that time Quincy got his high-school crush past security? Oh, damn, those were the days." He sounds sentimental and almost a little nostalgic.
Quincy chuckles, "She was such a sweet gal. She was so nice and pretty. Nice afro--" he catches himself before he can say anything further.
He clears his throat. "Anyways, Marcus, I think you should really take a step back and think."
Marcus looks straight ahead, beyond his grandpa's seat, "Hmmm. Yeah. I uh...I'm moving out."
Tequan's face scrunches in confusion, "You're what?!"
Marcus dryly repeats himself, "I got a place on lease at the Prairie Ridge, heh. I thought Roxanne was gonna say 'yes' last night. Apartment number 403. It's a nice place, y'all can come visit, see the place, hang out, watch some TV, y'know."
(It's obvious the only "y'alls" who are allowed are his half-brothers. Marcus might as well put up a "No Grandpa" sign in front of his door, heh).
Quincy remarks with a laugh, "Boy, you crazy. You know how exclusive and expensive that joint is?"
"I got the money, OK?"
Clarence has been watching the exchange, a calculating look on his bitter face, "Hmph. Did you even talk to your daddy before doing this?"
"The fuck for? I'm not a kid no more. I can make my own decisions, do my own shit," Marcus rudely answers.
Tequan chuckles faintly, "Ooooh, you on thin ice, girl. Thin ice. The next words outta your big, sassy mouth better be an apology. Grandpa don't like no backtalkers."
Quincy flinches at that, some unfortunate memories involving an open palm repeatedly striking his little cheeks coming to the forefront of his mind.
Clarence glares at his grandson, "You'd better watch your damn mouth, boy! You ain't even worth the air you breathin' right now, so why don't you--"
"Shut the FUCK UP!" Marcus's eyes are wide, his nostrils flared, and his voice is shrill.
Quincy and Tequan immediately lower their head and shut their mouths.
Clarence's heart rate goes up a little. His breathing becomes labored. His eyes are wide in shock. He's not used to anyone raising their voice at him like that.
Marcus is fuming, "I am SO fucking tired of all this bullshit! All YOU ever do is tell us what we should or shouldn't be doing! Tellin' us what we should be eating, telling us who we should or shouldn't be talking to! WE AIN'T KIDS NO MORE!"
Clarence reaches for his inhaler and takes a few puffs. He coughs a little, then says, "Boy, if you don't get your ass outta here right now--"
"Or what? What the fuck you gon' do, huh? You're just a sad, old man who has nothing else going for him other than making sure ALL his fucking grandkids are as miserable as him and his kids!"
Clarence picks up a heavy porcelain plate and angrily tosses it at his grandson. Marcus ducks and the plate ends up hitting the wall and shattering into many pieces.
Marcus is stunned. He promptly exits the dining room in a huff. He rushes to the front door and makes his way over to his car. He drives off.
Tequan and Quincy are left alone with the tyrant. The latter looks like he's about to have a heart attack. Quincy gets up and goes over to the old man to make sure he's alright.
The old man physically pushes his grandson away and curses at him, "Sit your ass down, fool! Ain't--ain't nobody disrespecting me in my own home! NOBODY!"
Tequan looks over his shoulder and sees the food being brought over. He smiles an uneasy smile and says to himself, "Oh, good. Food's here."
A woman clad in a maid's outfit places the steaks in front of the 3 Lancaster men. She bows her head and scurries off.
Clarence growls at someone else nearby, "What you lookin' at, huh? Go ask what's for dessert."
That person simply bows his head and shuffles off.
Quincy timidly asks his granddad, "Is everything OK? Do you need a doctor?"
The old man snaps back, "No, I don't need no damn doctor! I ain't THAT goddamn weak! I'm fine, fool!"
Tequan cuts into his steak with his knife, "Y--you sure, gramps?"
"Shut up and shovel that shit into your mouth, boy."
Tequan grimaces a bit, "Yes, sir." He takes a few bites, tries to savor the flavor, but he can barely taste anything. His mind is still on his brother.
He wonders where Marcus is headed off to. Quincy has a similar look on his face.
There was a time when these 3 used to call themselves the "3 Mulattos". It was a distant aunt who first called them that at a birthday party and the name kinda stuck.
Clarence had other sons, who have kids of their own; Laurence ain't the only busy buster around here. The Lancaster family patriarch is almost like a panopticon- he watches everything like a hawk and always ensures that he's in the loop, as it were.
Even if he is weak, frail, and falling apart at the seams. He's got eyes and ears everywhere. And he's very connected.
Marcus drives off into the afternoon, his heart still racing, his body still shaking. He's pissed off, but he's also a bit afraid. He doesn't know what to do.
He keeps thinking about Roxanne. He really, really likes her. He feels drawn to her like a moth is drawn to a flame. The question remains, will the moth burn or will something unexpected happen?
Laurence Lancaster is currently in Magnolia City, doing some bidness and shit like that. He's met an older woman and has taken a liking to her, but you-know-who disapproves of this relationship.
After lunch is over, dessert is brought out on a cute little cart; it's red velvet cake and homemade strawberry ice cream. Grandpa sure does like his ice cream, despite it being bad for his failing health.
Quincy is lactose intolerant, so he gets some carrot halwa (without milk). He feel in love with that dessert after a business trip to Al-Kushraf city (in the UAE).
The eating goes on in relative silence. There's the occasional grunt, belch (grandpa, of course), and the sounds of shiny gold flatware scraping against pricey porcelain.
Tequan's phone buzzes. He reads the text message from Marcus. It's an invite to an impromptu party. The latter is inviting him to come over later tonight and check out his new place and chill.
Tequan decides to take Marcus up on his offer. He shoots his other brother a text message. Quincy looks at his phone, eyebrow perched.
Clarence notices this, "What the hell's y'all doing, passing on phone messages like schoolgirls and shit? If you got something to say, then say it, fool! Don't do this at the dining table!"
Quincy mumbles, "Sorry, gramps."
Clarence huffs, "Mm-hmm." He mixes some extra ice cream with some velvet cake and devours a spoonful.
Quincy sniffs and says, "So, how's everything else going?" his tone reflects the awkwardness and uneasiness in this room.
Clarence wipes his mouth with a napkin and leans forward, "Everything's going just fine, Quincy. Just fine. Don't you worry about me, boy, alright? I can handle myself. You need to start making some babies."
"Uh...yes, grandpa. I'll uh...I'll work on that."
Tequan snickers, "Well, at least I'm off the hook for that one, haha."
Clarence grunts, "You bring a husband home and I'll make sure your daddy cuts you off from the will, boy."
Tequan lowers his head and mumbles, "That's not even...ah, never mind. Um, sure. Whatever. Anyway, the whole chiropractor thing? Yeah, never been better, haha! Y'know, I met Eddie Murphy at a restaurant a week ago, yeah! Got his autograph and everything."
Quincy raises a finger, "Hold on. So, you met THE Nutty Professor at a restaurant? Boy, you goin' places, huh?"
"Yeah! And the other time, I bumped into Chris Tucker while out with...Enrique."
Quincy softly smiles, "Nice, nice. I'm proud of you."
Clarence harrumphs and snorts, "Mm-hmm. Get all them rich celebrities into that chiropractor shit and you'll be set for life, boy."
Tequan sighs softly and replies, "Yes, gramps." He takes a small sip from his glass of water.
"And you, Quincy? You done with whatever that thing is called?"
Quincy nods, "I am, yes. Thank you. You and dad um...work hard to give us this life."
Clarence sits up, "Mm-hmm. Don't y'all ever forget that. Don't forget your roots, boys. You think I was born into this wealth? Hah! No, son. I had to work hard and make sacrifices, a LOT of 'em. Your daddy was no different, heh."
After a few minutes of Clarence giving some banal speech about hard work, character-building through suffering, and keeping the family legacy alive, Quincy gets up and says, "I need to use the bathroom."
Clarence growls, "Go ahead."
Quincy leaves. Tequan is left alone with his grandpa. They continue to eat. The maid returns and clears away their plates. She bows and makes her exit.
Clarence then says to his grandson, "You know, you and your daddy ain't so different. I see his eyes in you, boy."
"T--thanks, I guess?"
"You know, too many of my boys jumping and getting all up in that buttermilk. 1 of them was bound to make a homosexual pop out sooner, heh."
Tequan cringes slightly, "Um...OK? I mean, in all fairness, you and dad would constantly talk smack about black women--I mean, uh--" he is at a loss for words.
Clarence growls, "Spit it out, boy."
"Nothing, nothing. Never mind."
Quincy returns and takes his seat. He looks around, brows furrowed, "What's up? What'd I miss?"
Tequan excuses himself. He goes to a corner of this vast mansion, dials his boyfriend's number, and waits for him to pick up. Enrique is on his lunch break, so he answers quickly.
The conversation is brief and sweet. Tequan smiles, feeling somewhat happy. He then hangs up and makes his way over to the front door. He leaves the house and takes a drive to clear his head.
Quincy is left alone with his grandpa. They discuss various family matters and other such things. After sometime, a thin man in a sharp suit comes in and bends down to whisper something in the Lancaster family patriarch's ear.
Clarence immediately springs up and uses his stick for support, his hands shaking violently. Quincy is still seated while the thin man helps grandpapi back up to his room.
Clarence's room is big and spacious. There's a king-sized bed draped with luxurious silk sheets. The walls are adorned with some kind of aristocratic patterns.
There's a small table next to the bed where Clarence's medicine bottle is located. The old man sits on the edge of the bed and the thin man opens the bottle, but Clarence waves him off.
The thin man asks, "Is everything alright, sir? The doctor said you have to take your medicine at exactly--"
"Just gimme the damn phone, boy!"
The thin man bows his head and hands his boss the phone. Clarence dials a number and waits for the other person to pick up.
Guess who picks up...
Mr. Strickland is on the other end of the line, but he's using a voice-distorting device because of operational security (OPSEC) and shit like that. The conversation is brief and somewhat tense.
Clarence shoos the thin dude away and begins, "Yes, hello?"
Mr. Strickland is under a bridge, satellite phone in hand. He looks at the patchy ground under his feet and speaks into the phone, "Good afternoon, Mr. Lancaster."
"What the hell's up with that goofy voice?"
"A precaution due to recent events pertaining to my organization. Rest assured, it does not concern you, sir."
"So, is it done yet?"
"Yes, sir. The targets have been...retired. 3 males and 1 child as the contract stipulates."
Clarence grunts in satisfaction, "Good, good. They were a pain in my ass."
Mr. Strickland continues, "However, there has been a complication."
Clarence sits up and angrily asks, "What complication?"
"My...soldier got into a shootout with the police. They shot him in the leg, but he managed to fight them off. He is meeting me in a few minutes."
Clarence is stunned. He tries to speak, but no words come out. His jaw simply hangs open. He's completely speechless.
"Sir? Are you there?"
"Wh--what happened?!"
"I will find out soon enough, sir. Rest assured, this will not happen again. As you well know, Mr. Lancaster, my soldiers are the best of the best. I hope that this does not affect any future dealings we will have going forward."
Clarence replies, "As long as nothing can be tied back to me, I don't care. I might have another job for you soon. This one's...personal." The thought of putting out a hit on Marcus does cross his sick mind.
Mr. Strickland nods, "Understood, sir. We always look forward a challenge. I will not bother you any further. Have a nice day."
"Likewise."
The line goes dead.
Clarence puts down his phone and lies down on his bed. His eyes are wide, his breathing labored.
Some time later...
Mr. Green approaches the RV point, under the bridge, limping slightly. After Mr. Green killed those 4 people, the cops managed to clip his leg in a shootout following a foot pursuit. Mr. Strickland stares out into the distance, hands clasped behind his back.
He sees a few birds fly past. A few cars can be heard driving across the bridge. Mr. Green is panting, but he straightens his back, ignores the shooting pain in his leg, and presents himself properly.
Mr. Strickland looks ahead and simply asks, "What happened, soldier?"
Mr. Green firmly salutes and winces as the pain continues to nag at him. His leg is still bleeding through the ripped shirt he used as a makeshift bandage.
He then explains what happened, "Sir, the cops showed up. They were there for a routine check on a nearby apartment unit, sir."
Mr. Green pulls out a bottle of OxyContin tablets (the 20 mg variant) from his pant pocket and swallows a few of them. He continues, "I was in the middle of cleaning up when they came in. I had no choice but to engage."
Mr. Strickland nods along, "And so you did."
"Yes, sir. I put up a fight and managed to escape. I neutralized them, sir. 2 cops named...Davis and Sanchez."
Mr. Strickland sighs deeply, "I don't like it when we have to kill our own. The thin blue line is as vital as the thin green line, Mr. Green."
Mr. Green apologizes, "I'm sorry, sir."
"You did what you had to do, soldier. Are the kills confirmed?"
"Yes, sir! All 4 of them are dead. I checked for vitals, sir."
Mr. Strickland turns around and holds out his hand, "What about proof?"
Mr. Green produces 4 severed fingers, 1 of which is...that of a child's. He places the bloody digits into Mr. Strickland's palm. Mr. Strickland inspects these digits thoroughly and nods with approval.
Mr. Green then says, "There was an unfinished meal on the table, sir."
Mr. Strickland puts the digits into a transparent bag, "As is to be expected at this time of the day. The client will be pleased. Are there any other complications that I must be made aware of?"
Mr. Green lifts his chin and takes on a more firm tone, "Sir, I have failed you. I--I compromised the op and jeopardized the integrity of the organization, sir."
Mr. Strickland stifles a smirk, "You certainly did, didn't you? What you did to those 2 cops is all over the news, son. Cop-killers are treated worse than other offenders around these parts."
Mr. Green's chest sticks out and he declares, "I am ready for my punishment, sir!" he willingly surrenders his silenced pistol and knife and gets on his knees, despite the shooting pain.
But with the amount of Oxy he's downed, the pain has reduced slightly. Then again...if the perfumes of Arabia won't wash the blood away, it's unlikely that the pills of Purdue will have any effect, either.
Mr. Strickland stands before his soldier and says, "Rise, Mr. Green. I've already lost 1 good man, I do not need to lose 2 in less than a week. You know too much and are too valuable an asset to lose over...this. Now, come with me."
Mr. Green springs up and limps behind Mr. Strickland, who leads him into a car with tinted windows. Mr. Green gets in the backseat.
Mr. Strickland says, "Ms. White will drive you to a safehouse. A doctor is waiting over there. Lay low for a while, rest, and recover. I will visit you soon to check in on you. Dismissed."
"Thank--thank you, sir," Mr. Green shakily salutes his boss.
Mr. Strickland returns the gesture and walks off. Ms. White, a tall and slender woman with short black hair, gets into the car and starts the ignition. She drives off.
The afternoon sky is clear, but some clouds can be seen far off in the distance. Mr. Strickland reaches into his pocket and tosses some bits of bread at the nearby pigeons.
Back at the Lancaster house...
The old coot relaxes on his bed, a gramophone in the corner playing some old Negro spirituals. Clarence always likes to listen to that when he's alone.
He's got his eyes closed and is almost falling asleep when he hears someone knocking on his door. He slowly opens his eyes and groans. He's still a little shaken up by that call from Mr. Strickland.
"Come in."
Quincy peeks his head in and says, "Hey, uh...you doing OK, gramps?"
"I was until you came. What do you want?"
Quincy pulls up a chair and sits down. He sighs, "I'm sorry about what happened over brunch. Marcus...went too far this time, didn't he?"
Clarence scoffs, "Is that so, huh? Boy's just like his damn momma- stubborn and obsessed and raising that damn voice up at me."
Quincy nods along, "Yeah...well, you know, Marcus is still my brother. We may not always get along, but that doesn't change the fact that we're still family at the end of the day. I just want us all to be...at peace."
Clarence grunts, "I'll be at peace when I'm dead, but that ain't happening any time soon, so don't get any funky-ass ideas, ya hear?"
Quincy chuckles, "Oh, 'course not, haha! Listen, I was going through the accounts and there were some uh...discrepancies. I thought you'd want to know."
Clarence sits up and asks, "What kinda discrepancies?"
"Well, some things aren't adding up. I'm not sure what's going on, but--"
"Boy, just say it straight. Spit it out!"
Quincy nervously explains, "There was a recent withdrawal of 120,000 dollars, all cash."
Clarence's eye twitches. That's the cash he used to pay Mr. Strickland to carry out those hits. He clears his throat and says, "Must've been your daddy. He's been doing some business with some...new partners in Magnolia City. Don't you worry about it."
Quincy is unconvinced, "But--but we need to keep track of the expenses! That's no small amount--"
Clarence raises a stern finger and warns, "Now don't you start behaving like your half-brother and getting all educated with me. I know everything in this home. I know each and every penny that comes in and out. It's fine. It's handled. Now, drop it."
Quincy lowers his head and says, "I--I'm sorry, grandpa. I was just making sure that no one's stealing from us."
Clarence replies, "And you did good, Quincy. Now go on. I need me some alone time."
Quincy gets up, bows, and makes his exit. Quincy Lancaster has never been much of a curious person, so Clarence knows that his bloody little secret is as safe as can be.
Clarence sighs and closes his eyes, hoping to take a nap. But then, he remembers what Marcus said during brunch. His blood starts boiling. He can't let that shit slide.
He picks up the phone and dials a number with malice in every key press. Someone picks up, "Yeah, who is this?"
Clarence simply says, "Get me Laurence Lancaster. This is his father."
The person on the other end says, "Oh, Mr. Lancaster! Ri--right away, sir! How are you doing today?" their tone switches from casual to borderline sycophantic.
Clarence impatiently orders, "Just get my damn son on the line, fool!"
"Mr. Laurence is currently unavailable right now, sir. I--I will be more than happy to relay a message as soon as he returns."
"Where's he at?"
"Uh..."
"I said...Where. Is. He. At?"
"Um...Mr. Laurence is on a date with--with his lady friend, sir. He--he made me promise not to tell anyone, but--but since you're his father, I guess that doesn't matter, haha."
Clarence angrily cuts them off, "You tell my boy to call me as soon as possible. You hear me?"
"Y--yes, sir, Mr. Lancaster. I'm sorry about that. I'll call him right away and tell him it's urgent."
Clarence smirks wickedly, "Yeah, you tell him that."
He seems to derive some sort of sick pleasure out of riling people up, talking down to them, or dividing them and watching them go for each other's throats (as was the case with the brunchtime earlier).
Is that how he gets his rocks off? Anyways...
In time, the afternoon fades away and the sun begins its tired descent below the horizon. The Kindred stir from their day-long slumber, their inner Beasts longing for a bloody treat, fresh, red, and tasty.
Markham awakens and blinks a few times. He rubs his face and groans as he sits up. Diego knocks on the door and peers inside, "Hey, you awake?"
The Baali nods and rubs the base of his neck with both his hands, "Mm-hmm. What's up?"
The Gangrel says, "I'm not sure if we're gonna be able to go out tonight..."
"Why? What happened?"
"It's all over the news, homes. 4 people and 2 cops were killed in the day. And since this is Flimont City, the cops are out in full force. A few busters I know called me up and told me that the popo are doing random stop-and-frisk type shit. If they don't like your look, they might even haul your ass into jail. Or worse."
Markham sniffs and asks, "What...exactly happened?"
"Don't know. Marisol's watching the news right now. Come on up."
"Hm. Coming," Markham gets up and follows his Gangrel host to the living room. Marisol, surprisingly, is wearing her PJs (a bunny-printed pant and a raggedy t-shirt). She's intently watching the news, a focused expression on her face.
She grunts and switches to another news channel, "Argh, mierda!"
Diego looks at his girlfriend with concern and asks, "Hey, hey, what's wrong?"
Marisol angrily explains, "All of them are only talking about those 2 cops who got popped. There's NO info on who those 4 people were- we only know they--they were 3 men and--and--" she stops and her lips shake in fear.
The news reporter fills it in, his voice blaring from the small TV's speakers: "Authorities confirmed that 3 males and 1 child were killed in the horrific attack. In addition, FCPD officers Davis and Sanchez were shot dead. A statewide manhunt is currently underway."
Diego grumbles, "The fuck..." Marisol holds his hand and they look into each other's eyes with fear.
Markham sits on the sofa and looks just as concerned, "My god. A--a kid? Who'd do such a thing?"
Diego sighs and faintly mutters, "Man, sometimes, this fucking city. Hmph, I guess we'll never know."
It would appear that every news outlet is fixated on the 2 dead cops. Nobody even knows (or cares to bother) about the 4 people who were murdered.
The police chief calls a press conference and menacingly threatens to unleash the full powers of the Flimont City Police Department. He's flanked by the Governor and a few other important figures as he threatens the entire population of the city.
It's a dark time for Flimont City, and it's an even darker time for the denizens of the night. At times like this, the Masquerade is of the utmost importance. Even a single innocuous traffic stop could easily lead to an untimely and ugly end for any Kindred who finds themselves in the wrong place at the wrong time.
The chief of police grimly warns the populace to comply with the cops. He's even going so far as to authorize the use of maximum force; basically, if a cop has reason to fear for their precious life, they may discharge their weapon into anyone's face as many times as they please.
Marisol shakes her head and scowls. Diego clicks his tongue in frustration. Markham looks down at the ground.
The Baali eventually asks the obvious question, "What are we gonna do to feed? I could avoid getting noticed, but you 2..."
Diego responds, "We'll think of something. There's a few places within walking distance. Marisol and I pretty much agreed to stay home and lay low tonight. I hope this uh...doesn't throw a wrench in your plans, ese. I know you wanted to go see that Gringo neighborhood, right?"
Markham plainly says, "It's no bother, Diego. There's always tomorrow. You're right, we better stay put."
And they do just that. Well, they still have to go and sate their ceaseless Hunger. Thankfully, it's a quick and easy affair and none of them are spotted. They all do the usual- stalk, seclude, bite, lick, leave.
Once the 3 Kindred are back, Diego plops himself on the couch and flips through the news channels- no change, it's basically wall-to-wall coverage...about the 2 cops, their families, their pasts, their time at the FCPD...but nothing else.
Diego switches it off, "This is fucking insane, man! We don't even know what the hell really happened. It's like those 4 other people don't matter, what kinda shit is this?!"
Marisol grimaces, "Hijo de Puta." She walks to the kitchen and decides to do some arranging.
Markham says he has some work to take care of- his investigation won't complete itself, so he might as well get cracking.
Diego inquires, "Hey, when you're done, you wanna watch some movies?"
The Baali looks over his shoulder, "Do you have any?"
"Plenty! I usually borrow 'em from the video store. Oh, wait, just a sec, alright?" Diego scurries off to go and get something from his pickup truck. He returns with a video tape and surprises Marisol.
Her eyes light up a little and she gives her boyfriend a tight hug. She thanks him and kisses him on the cheek for remembering to get her the movie she had wanted for quite sometime.
The TV is not exactly top-notch, and this was before the advent of streaming services and such. So, it's just a boxy thing with a VHS player hooked up to it by wires caked in dust and spider webs.
Markham goes downstairs and does his work there. Marisol and Diego snuggle on the sofa and watch their flick.
Somewhere else...
Mauve Lilac awakens from her day-slumber a little later than usual. The Malkavian sees the time and softly gasps. She quickly bathes, brushes, and then takes a stroll outside to see who she can bite into without drawing too much attention.
To nobody's surprise, the streets are rather desolate. Mauve spots a few cop cars and a few cops with full body armor and assault rifles...sure, what could go wrong by giving a bunch of racists and spouse-beaters military-style weaponry and a clearance to kill a person if they fit a certain frame all the same?
Mauve sneaks into an alley, shuffles along, and goes deeper into the urban jungle, looking for a fresh face and warm neck. The search continues until she spots a cop (!) taking piss near a dumpster in a tight alleyway.
The Malk grimaces at this, but her Beast says otherwise.
A few moments later, the cop is leaning against the brick wall of the dank alleyway, a spaced-out look on his face. The wound has been licked shut and his head is spinning around and around like a merry-go-round.
Through blurred vision, he sees Mauve scuttle away and up back to her place. On her way back up, she overhears some folk talking about some guy who moved in to the 4th floor.
"I hear it's 1 of the Lancaster boys."
"Oh, my."
"Indeed."
Mauve never got along well with her neighbors. Since this place is quite exclusive (and expensive), the only types who live here are the rich or the incredibly wealthy.
Mauve is just here out of circumstance, not choice. Apartment 303 is her Haven, it's a roof over her head, and that's all she's really focused on right now. Then again, she knows what she has to do keep that roof over her weary head.
When she gets back in, her head jerks up and she hears something being dragged across the floor above her. She almost jumps up in fright and makes her way upstairs to speak to her new neighbor.
The Malkavian gingerly knocks on the door and waits. After a while, Marcus answers, a smug look on his face, "Uh...hello?" He's holding a plastic red cup and loud music emanates from somewhere inside his apartment.
Mauve gets a little flustered, but she manages to say, "Hi. I live downstairs, um...apartment 303--"
Marcus interrupts her and beams, "Oh, that means we're neighbors!" he puts his hand on her shoulder and tries to usher her in.
Mauve recoils back and bats his hand away, "Don't touch me, don't touch me."
He looks at her with a shocked and almost aghast expression, "Sorry, I--I was just--"
She looks around and then says, "I--I'm working right now, so I was wondering if you'd maybe uh...turn down the music and keep the noise to a minimum. Actually, the rules of this place are--are pretty clear: no noise after a certain time, uh...yeah."
Marcus scowls at her and scoffs, "Hell no, woman. I just moved in here. I don't need no stupid-ass rules telling me when and for how long I can have these shindigs. Now, you can either come in or get lost. But, I ain't dialing my party down cuz of you, shawty."
Mauve tries to sound more assertive, but her nervousness gets in the way, "B--but you have to, or the--they'll come up here and you'll be fined and--and--"
Marcus simply shuts the door on her. Mauve sighs and slumps against the doorframe. The thumping music, the sirens blaring outside, and the chitter-chatter all cause a sort of sensory overload in her.
She squeezes her head in her hands and paces around in the hallway, the cacophony of the world and her Beast growing ever louder and louder in her head. Her teeth clatter a bit and her jaw shakes. She stumbles back down the stairs and gets inside her apartment before it gets any worse.
She slumps against the door and her backside hits the floor with a hard thump. She shuts her eyes, takes deep breaths (not gonna help), and tries to center herself.
Her eyes flutter and she feels herself being drawn to a place.
That place.
The Malkavian Madness Network. She absolutely hates being pulled into this place, because the noises and shapes and things that go on in this otherworldly mind space can get pretty damn overwhelming if one is not cautious.
Mauve groans and shuts her eyes tightly. When she opens them, she's greeted with a swirl of strange shapes, sounds, smells, and colors. Mauve crawls across the ground and tries to ignore all the sensory stimuli around her.
A woman's metallic voice calls out from somewhere, "Every inch. Broken glass."
Another chirpy voice says, "Are you watching us, doctor?"
Yet another gratingly demands, "Don't look at me! Don't you fucking look at me! Grrrr!"
Mauve gasps and cries out, these feelings too much to bear, "Get out! Get out! Get out!" she falls back into her own body, but she can't fully snap back in.
Out of nowhere, a man's gentle voice cuts across all the noise and lunacy, "Hey, hey, easy there. Easy. Follow the sound of my voice. Focus."
Mauve gulps, "Who--who's this?"
"If you're here, it means you're like me- a Malkavian by Blood. Name's Isaac. Gimme 5 seconds to guess your name..."
After 6 seconds, he sighs, "OK, I genuinely couldn't. Do you...even have a name, miss...?"
"Mad--Mauve. Mauve...Lilac."
Isaac faintly chuckles, "That's an interesting name. I've never heard anything quite like it. Then again, I'm one to talk. Do you wanna know what my last name is? Go on, give it a guess, Mauve."
Mauve attempts to extend her mental tendrils in the direction of Isaac's voice. A last name slowly begins to form on the tip of her tongue, but she struggles to say it, "S--St--Str--"
"Almost there, almost there," Isaac encourages her, a playful sort of eagerness in his tone of voice.
"Strange???"
"Bingo! It's Isaac Strange! 1 whole point for Mauve Lilac, haha!"
Mauve softly laughs along, feeling a bit nervous. Just then, another random voice butts in, "...Where? Where did my shadow go?"
Isaac sighs softly and tells his fellow Mocker, "Mauve, don't. Forget that. Focus. Focus on the sound of my voice. I know, this place...it's overwhelming as hell for the uninitiated. I've seen some of our own fall into the Wassail, the last Frenzy, just by being in here for too long. It's...really sad when that happens."
Mauve swallows nervously and manages to sit up. She extends her mental tendrils till she "feels" Isaac's own mental tendrils.
Isaac beams with approval, "Good, good. Just--"
Another interjection, this one laced with desperation, "I'm so tired of being scared all the time!"
Mauve gasps and she feels her mental connection to Isaac weakening. He implores her to focus and follow his lead. Mauve feels his presence moving off to the left of this Non-Euclidean mind space. She tries her best to follow it.
A random person's voice suddenly starts talking about the merits and shortcomings of "fresh" produce.
Isaac speaks again, "Mauve, focus. I...feel there's a lot going on inside you."
Mauve shakily responds, "You have no idea, Isaac. I--I don't even know if I can do it sometimes."
Isaac tells her, "It's OK. You have us- every Malkavian who 'lives' or has ever 'lived' is in here, inside you. In a way. Well, sort of. Try not to be creeped out by it, heh. Anyways, just stay with me. Let's...let's just try and talk. Yeah. You uh...doing anything right now?"
"No, not much."
"Anything in particular on your mind? Anything bothering ya?"
"No."
Isaac makes an observation, "Ah, not the talkative type, huh? Hey, I get it, I get it. You don't owe some random disembodied voice the whole story of your Unlife, heh. I--I've got a story to tell if you care to listen."
"Tell me."
And so, Isaac begins telling her the story of his Unlife. Apparently, he used to work for DARPA (Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency) prior to his Embrace, so he's a pretty smart guy. He was Embraced a few years after its founding.
Mauve lies back down, her eyes closed. Her mind wanders all around and her body is somewhat relaxed. She lets him ramble on and tunes out when he starts saying things that seem a little unhinged.
All in all, it's a pleasant few minutes. Isaac eventually concludes by saying, "Well, that's my cue, Ms. Lilac. Um...until we meet again?"
"Yeah, sure. Thanks for...guiding me back there. I--I don't know what would've happened if you weren't around. I feel a lot calmer right now."
Isaac laughs, "All in a night's work. Catch you on the flipside, I guess. Byeee!"
Mauve's eyes pop open and she wheezes as she gets off the floor and returns to her normal self. A minute later, her phone starts ringing. The caller ID is blank. Mauve answers it, "Hello?"
A garbled voice mumbles something unintelligible through heavy static, "Mad-el-Steph-son. Infrastructure. Angels. Demons. In-evit-ble. E-nd. Jo-in. Jo-in."
This cryptic message is immediately followed by a high-pitch blast of static before the call abruptly cuts. Mauve gasps and almost drops her phone.
The phone itself starts to vibrate again, but this time, there's no garbled nonsense coming from the other end, "Mauve, hey!"
She blinks a few times before recognizing the voice of Luciano, "Oh. Hi, Mr. Donovan."
LDJ asks, "How's my golden goose doing? Laying them golden eggs for me?"
"Uh...I need some help, actually."
Luciano sighs, "What now?"
"There's this guy upstairs throwing this wild party or whatever. The music is really loud and I can't really focus on anything with all these sounds, these sensations overwhelming me, so...uh, yeah. Could you uh...come over and tell him to turn down the music, maybe? He's right above me, apartment number 403."
Luciano snickers, "Look, baby, you gotta get used to that, you hear me?"
Mauve clicks her tongue in frustration and reiterates her demand, "But, Mr. Donovan, I genuinely CANNOT focus or do anything with all these noises so close by! Please, just go talk to him. I tried, but he slammed the door in my face."
Luciano sighs, "Hmph, fine. I was coming by anyway. Yeah, I'll sort it out for you, but you better be laying those golden eggs, alright, Mauve?"
"Y--Yes, sir, Mr. Donovan."
"I'll be there soon." He hangs up and keeps driving. Paul is sitting next to him, looking outside the window. He's messing with his nose and looking all around the inside of the car, just generally being a little on edge.
He leans closer to his best buddy and mutters, "So, we going to Marco's now?"
Luciano grimaces and takes a right turn, past a few cop cars, "No, dumbass. We're going to Mauve's joint. She's run into some neighborly trouble and needs me to sort it out, heh."
Paul looks disappointed, "Hm. And THEN we go to Marco's, right?"
Luciano keeps his eyes on the road, "Jesus. Calm the fuck down, alright? Your coke ain't going nowhere, OK?"
Paul leg shivers and he desperately says, "I--I need it, man. You--you saw what a mess I was this morning, right?"
LDJ grunts in derision, "Hrmf. Don't fucking remind me of that- it was fucking embarrassing! You couldn't even give me or anyone a clear goddamn answer when they asked you a simple fucking question!"
Paul shakily apologizes, "I'm sorry, man."
"Yeah, yeah, whatever. We'll get your blow AFTER we drop by Mauve's place and see what's got her panties all up in a twist, alright?"
At a traffic stop, Luciano playfully smacks Paul's shoulder and remarks, "After all, what are friends for, huh?"
Paul cracks a small and tight smile. For now, he tries to hold himself back, but if he doesn't get any snow in his nose soon, his withdrawal will definitely be something ugly.
There's a reason Mr. Cho no longer drives. The last time he got in front of a steering wheel (after having a whiff, of course), he smashed his car against a bus stop and nearly killed a man pushing his baby in a stroller.
It was only thanks to Gordon Pym's usual shady shrewdness that P-Money was able to get off the hook without even so much as a slap on the wrist. In the aftermath, did Paul Cho take time to reflect on his wrongdoings and maybe check into rehab or something like that?
It's the bare minimum he can do, and he most certainly CAN afford some of the finer rehab facilities in this country multiple times over.
Instead, he kept going deeper and deeper...
And, since he's rich and privileged, he gets away with it. For all his talk about being above-board and on the good side of the law, he's actually quite an unscrupulous man.
When Luciano drives to Mauve's Haven, Paul fiddles with the A/C knob and then he repeatedly presses the hazard lights button like it's going out of style.
Luciano impatiently snatches his hand away and shouts, "Would you STOP that, dammit?!"
Paul apologizes and shakes his head, "I'm sorry, I'm sorry, man. I--I need something to keep my hands busy, man!"
Luciano sarcastically suggests, "Then, play with your dick."
Paul lowers his head and sighs. He opens the glove compartment and pulls out a random paper. He reads through it to get his mind off of his gnawing addiction, at least for a short while.
It's just some random bank statement from a few weeks ago. Paul remarks, "Whoa, we've uh...really come far since then, huh?"
Luciano proudly nods and eases his foot off the accelerator when he sees another gaggle of cops gathered around a shuttered store, "Mm-hmm. Our golden goose is coming through. We've got ourselves a sweet-ass deal here, man!"
"Yeah. Some retarded homeless chick is gonna make--make us rich. Wow, it sounds fucking nuts when you say it like that, huh?"
"It sure does, Paul. It sure does."
Paul proceeds to ask an unusual question, "What if she, like, outlives her usefulness? I mean, everything and everyone has an expiry date, right?"
Luciano slams the brakes, the tires squealing against the asphalt road. A few pedestrians jump out of the way and yelp.
A nearby cop points her rifle at the car for a split second before realizing that it's just a dumbass driver who's braking at the wrong time and place.
Luciano's hands are gripping the steering wheel, his knuckles turning white. He menacingly turns to face his friend, glowering daggers at him, "If you're implying what I THINK you're implying, don't. Just...don't. This chick...she's a goddamn money printing press, you understand that, Paul?"
"Uh...?"
Luciano grits his teeth, "As long as she's in business with me, she's under MY goddamn control, MY goddamn protection. I'm not letting anybody, ANY-FUCKING-BODY, find out about or steal MY golden goose away from me. Do you understand that, Paul?! HUH?!"
"Yes. Sorry, sorry, sorry," Paul holds his hands up and begs his best buddy for forgiveness, "I didn't mean to upset you, man, I just--I just wanted to--"
LDJ yells at him, "Well, don't! Don't fucking jinx it, alright?! We keep this shit going for as long as we can possibly can. I don't care if I have to make Mauve do her thing till she becomes all old and crusty and shit!"
Heh. He didn't know. He could never know.
Paul's eyebrows shoot up quickly, but he holds his tongue as the cop approaches. Her rifle is lowered, but her finger is still on the trigger. She eyes the duo with contempt and suspicion, "Hey, hey! Watch it! What, you can't drive your damn car right? Do you boys want a speeding ticket?!"
Luciano smiles and apologizes, "Oh, officer, I'm so sorry. My sweaty hand kinda slipped--"
"Shut up! License and registration!"
Paul growls at his friend, "Just give it to her, man. And no funny business like last time."
Luciano scoffs and sneaks a couple of Benjamins in the officer's palm, "You have a good rest of the night, officer. I'll make sure to keep it below the limit from now on, huh? OK? Good."
The cop sneaks a look at her colleagues nearby and gives the driver and passenger a half-hearted warning before letting them be on their way. She shoves the cash in her back pocket with a sly smirk and resumes her "duties".
After a few more minutes of driving through streets that are usually traffic-infested, the 2 wonder boys reach Mauve's apartment.
LDJ is first to go up the steps and knock on her door. Paul follows close by (a bit too close for LDJ's comfort), a nervous expression on his sweaty face.
Mauve opens the door and gasps in relief, "Oh! Mr. Donovan, Mr. Cho, you came!"
Luciano pushes her aside, "Yeah, you fuckin' called us. So, what seems to be the matter, huh?"
Mauve vaguely gestures to the ceiling and explains her plight, "There's some--some loud music playing and the party above isn't exactly easy on my...mind, y'know? I feel very overwhelmed when there's a lot going on."
Paul eyes her with disdain, "The fuck is that supposed to mean?"
Mauve tries to patiently explain, "It means my senses tend to get overloaded if I'm bombarded with too much stimuli at once."
Paul rolls his eyes and callously comments, "Wow, you really are nuts, huh? C'mon, let's go and sort this shit out."
Luciano reminds his underling, "I'll take care of it. Now, you get your ass all warm and comfy and start laying some golden eggs for me, alright?"
The Malkavian sighs, a hint of frustration and annoyance in her tone, "OK, fine." She makes her way to her desk and sits down, a bit disgruntled.
The wonder boys prepare to go upstairs. As they're climbing, Paul snidely remarks, "Let's hope this idiot savant's quirky idiosyncrasies don't screw us later down the line..."
"Hmm," Luciano knocks on the door. Someone answers, but it's not Marcus. Instead, a shirtless dude with dreadlocks answers, a plastic cup in 1 hand.
"Yooo! Wazzup! Hey, Marcus, you got someone here- they look like your accountants, hahah!"
Luciano is annoyed at that comment and he immediately retorts, "I'm Luciano Donovan--"
Marcus shoves his buddy aside, jaw hanging open, "Whoa. Y--You're Luciano Donovan? THE Luciano Donovan? Junior?"
LDJ feels his ego swelling up when someone recognizes him. He tugs on his suit jacket and lifts his chin, "The one, the only."
Marcus laughs in amazement and welcomes the duo inside, "Well, what the hell. C'mon, c'mon in. We uh...got a little bit of everything 'round here, Mr. Donovan."
Paul's ears perk up when that's mentioned. He's been to enough rich people parties in this city to know that cocaine is pretty much a guaranteed staple at any bougie gathering. And if this party has what he craves, then...! He rubs his hands together and eagerly goes inside, a wide grin on his face.
Luciano and Marcus chat for a bit, the former inquiring about how the latter got here.
Luciano lazily waves his hand, "Ah, the chick below you works for me. She was making a fuss and going all like, 'Oh, boohoo, it's too loud and I can't focus and it's irritating me. Daddy, why don't you go up and tell the mean ol' boy upstairs to dial it down?'"
Marcus chuckles and takes a sip, "Hahaha! Yeah, she came up here and I basically told her where to go and what to do. I ain't dialing this shindig back down cuz of some shawty."
Money knows money. Game recognizes game.
Marcus's house has been done up quite a bit. The tiled floors are shiny and white, the walls have been given a new coat of paint, the windows have a new set of curtains, and the lights have been replaced.
The furniture is still quite sparse. There's a flat screen TV, a wide couch, a coffee table, and a big, expensive-looking stereo system, but the rest of the space is largely empty. All in all, pretty bleh.
The guests, though? They're dressed to the freakin' nines and are having the time of their lives. The music is so loud that one can barely hear themselves think.
Marcus gets some brewskis for LDJ and P-Money and they get their partay mood on. Meanwhile, poor Mauve's head throbs as the noises and vibrations overwhelm her senses. She's curled up in a ball, rocking back and forth, trying to cope with this sensory assault.
Upstairs, Paul is doing the most. He's been sniffing and snorting coke like a maniac, guzzling down booze, and laughing his head off at jokes that aren't even that funny.
LDJ and Marcus talk bidness and such.
Elsewhere...
Dr. Collins is driving in his car across roads that are emptier than usual. The Tzimisce doctor takes a few turns and arrives at his clinic soon enough. He saw a few cop cars and random oddities along the way, but nothing necessarily unusual or out of place.
He parks and sees a gaggle of patients moseying around the closed entrance to his clinic. His face scrunches in confusion and he approaches the nearest patient, a tall woman wearing a pink dress, "Good evening. Uh...why aren't you inside?"
She turns and answers, "Doctor! There you are. The clinic's closed."
Dr. Collins is slightly taken aback, "That's unusual. Wesley is usually here to open it and let you all in."
"We've all been standing here for close to an hour, Doctor..."
Dr. Collins sighs and uses his spare keys to open the clinic doors. He gently ushers the patients inside and tells them to get seated as he goes around flicking light switches and wondering where the hell his receptionist is.
A gruff voice calls out from behind the good doctor, "HEY! You Dr. Collins?"
The Stoker turns around and sees a cop, assault rifle in hand, glaring at him. He gulps and answers, "Um, yes. How may I help you, officer?"
The cop points at the front door, "You got a Wesley that works here as a receptionist? 19, messy hair?"
"Yes. Is he OK?"
Another cop grips Wesley by the arm and manhandles the poor kid to the front. Dr. Collins is confused, but he can't exactly do anything or protest since he's facing down 2 armed and angry cops.
The 2nd cop grunts and asks, "Does this kid work here as a receptionist?"
Dr. Collins firmly answers, "Yes. I already told your friend here. Now, let him go. What--what's the meaning of this?"
The 1st cop answers, "He was loitering--"
Wesley objects, "No! I was waiting for the bus--"
The 2nd cop growls at him, "Shut up!"
Dr. Collins angrily steps forward, points his finger, and demands, "You get your hands off him! He's done nothing wrong! He's a good kid. Leave him be, please."
The 2nd cop shoves Wesley into the wall and warns the doctor, "You're lucky we're letting him walk, but there won't be a next time. C'mon, let's get the fuck outta this dump."
Dr. Collins tries to stay calm, but the Beast within is getting antsy and impatient, "He's just a kid, dammit."
Wesley adjusts his clothes and quickly goes inside to make sure that all the patients are ready to see the good doc.
The 1st cop gets close to the doctor's face and looks around the clinic, "So, this the place where all the losers, whores, bums, and hobos go?"
Dr. Collins does not dignify that question with an answer. He simply says, "I'm going to have to ask you to leave now. I have patients to see. Thank you."
The 1st cop scoffs, turns on his heel, and saunters off.
The patients look very concerned and on-edge. 1 of them says, "They've gone mad! Mad! They want to punish us all because of what happened earlier, a--and it's not fair, I tell you. Not fair!"
The others seem to agree with soft grunts and mumbles.
Dr. Collins sighs and takes a deep breath, trying to regain his composure.
It's already shaping up to be a long and tiresome night. The cops outside keep their "vigil", their trigger fingers itchy as hell, and their minds full of anger and vengeance.
Dr. Collins puts his cold hand on Wesley's shoulder and gently asks the still shaken-up kid, "Are you OK, Wes? Did they hurt you?"
Wesley sighs and responds, "They just yanked me off the street and threw me in the back of their cop cruiser. Doc, I--" his eyes are wide with fear and his lips tremble.
Dr. Collins calmly says, "Easy, easy. Take deep breaths. That's right. Breathe in and out. There, there, everything's gonna be fine, OK?"
Wesley sniffles and rubs his eyes, "I--I'm sorry, doc. It's just that...it was all so scary, y'know."
"I understand, kid. I understand. If you'd like to take off early--"
"N--No, doc. I'm fine, I'm fine. Let's--let's get started. You um...got a lot of folk to see. Also, you heard, right?"
Dr. Collins pensively lowers his head, "Yes. Dr. Nash was a good man."
The patients have been patiently waiting for the past few minutes, but some are a little annoyed at the delay. 1 of them says, "Hey, I gotta meet my wife and kids for dinner!"
Dr. Collins puts on his game face and nods, "Send the 1st one in, Wes."
"Right away, doc!" The fear still lingers in the boy's tone.
Patients are seen, ailments are diagnosed with precision, prescriptions do be written, questions are answered, and so on and so forth and what have you.
Hours pass and Wes knocks on the doctor's office door, he pokes his head in and says, "You got an email regarding a new patient, doc."
That would be Penny's medical files. Jadwiga was kind enough to set an appointment.
"OK, thank you, Wes. Go ahead and send her in."
"Right away, sir!" Wes closes the door and the sound of his shoes hitting the ground slowly fades away.
Some more time passes and Roxanne, dressed in a buttoned-down white shirt and jeans, walks into the good doctor's office. The Brujah has some light makeup on and she carries a bulky brown handbag.
She struts in with confidence and looks around the Flesh-Shaper's office.
Dr. Collins looks confused, "You're not Jadwiga. I know her."
Roxanne moues, "No, I'm not, darling. She...works for me, in a manner of speaking. I'm here on behalf of Penny."
Dr. Collins pulls up her file and goes through it, eyes quickly scanning over the contents therein and taking in all the necessary information, "I see. So, how can I help you, miss...?"
"Roxanne."
"Miss Roxanne. I've heard that name before..."
Roxanne puts her hand on the doctor's desk and casually reveals her retractable claws. She gives him a toothy smile, fangs fully visible.
"Ah, I see. So, you're Brujah?"
"Mm-hmm. Word on the street is you've made Primogen for the Tzimisce Clan. I suppose congratulations are in order, hmm?"
Before he can reply, he makes sure that the door is shut. He sits back down with a groan, "Not exactly, no. Anyways, what is your relation to Penny, if you don't mind me asking?"
"She was my younger sister, but as time went on, she grew older while little old me stayed the same."
"I'm sorry to hear that. An intracranial hemorrhage is no laughing matter. Tell me, in her comatose state, has she exhibited any strange behavior, maybe?"
"Not that I know of. Just...lots of tubes and wires and monitors. And those machines, oh, they're getting noisy. I'm sure you know why I'm here, hmm?"
Dr. Collins nods, "Yes. Dr. Nash was seeing to her before he...died. How did you know Dr. Nash?"
The Brujah sex worker gives the doc a suggestive smile and bites her lip, "In many ways...biblical ways, heh. In return, he agreed to set everything up for my sister and check in on her every now and then, y'know, to make sure that she was fine and everything runs like a well-oiled machine."
Dr. Collins lifts his eyebrows a little, "Well, I hope you're not here to make a similar offer..."
Roxy pouts her lips and puts her cold hand on the doctor's (equally) cold hand, "Well, now that you've mentioned it, I'm more than willing to adjust my prices for you, sugar."
Dr. Collins withdraws his hand and shakes his head, "No, no need for anything like that. I'll uh...see your sister. How 'bout we go now?"
The Punk smiles in satisfaction, "Hmm, and here I thought tonight was gonna be tough. Don't you have other patients to see?"
"Most have cancelled their appointments due to recent happenings, so I'm free right now."
Roxy gets up and slightly bows her head, "Lead the way, sugar. So, Tzimisce, huh?"
Dr. Collins gets his coat and puts it on, "What about it?"
Roxanne chuckles, "I knew your predecessor. Well, not in THAT way, of course, haha."
"Oh. You knew Galeb?"
"Mm-hmm. I've been with plenty of your fellow Dragons, doctor."
"Hmm. I assume you and your clients practice some form of safe sex?"
Roxanne plainly answers with confidence, "'Course. Always, darling. Being a 'living' corpse is certainly no excuse, heh. Condoms, the pull-out method, dental dams, and so on. They're all a necessity, not a luxury. I take great pride in what I do and I'm very good at it. It's why I've lasted for so long."
"I see," the doctor and the hooker walk out and get in the doc's car. He holds the door open for her.
She remarks, "Oh, my, a true gentleman, huh?"
Wesley asks the doctor, "How long will you be gone for, doc?"
Dr. Collins answers, "Not for long kid, don't worry, the cops won't harass you. If anything comes up, reach me by my pager, OK?"
Wesley faintly smiles, "Sure thing, doc. Uh, miss, you didn't fill out anything. The doctor here is pretty strict about that sort of thing. All you did was doodle some random stuff on the pages."
Roxy lazily waves her hand, "That's because I'm not sick, honey."
Wesley nervously laughs a little and waves goodbye to the 2 as the doctor's car drives off into the dark night. He goes back in and resumes his work, though he's still a little uneasy with the whole situation.
Roxy starts chatting up a storm, talking about anything and everything, "...so, that's why the Brujah and the Gangrel have always been tight. I mean, the Caitiff are a different story, but we're on speaking terms, so no big deal."
Dr. Collins keeps his eyes on the road ahead, "There's Caitiff in this city??"
Roxanne clicks her tongue, "A few pass through every now and then. Hardly enough to warrant a proper presence in this city."
"Hmm."
"And what's your story, sugar?"
"You seem to know quite a lot."
The Brujah lady of the night chuckles, "I know these mean streets, I have my ears to the pavements, sometimes literally. I'd even like to think that I have my fingers on this city's pulse. You ever want salacious and steamy knowledge, Roxanne is your go-to gal, heh."
Dr. Collins pointedly asks, "Then how come the other Brujah here have never heard of you? You do know there are other Punks in this city, right?"
Roxy maintains her composure and looks out the window, "Mm-hmm. Most of them, if not all of them, were rolling with the Anarchs. I steer clear of that."
"A wise choice, I suppose."
"Mm-hmm. A Tzimisce doctor, huh? I'm sure there's a joke in there somewhere."
Dr. Collins stops near a phone booth and tells his passenger, "Gimme a minute. I need to make a quick call."
Roxanne says, "We have all the time in the world, sugar. Make as many calls as you want." There's a seductive and sultry edge to her tone, but she doesn't do much. She's just looking out the window.
Dr. Collins gets out and uses the phone. His call is immediately answered by his Ghoul, Brock.
"Hello?"
"It's me."
Brock sips some coffee and replies, "Oh, hey! You uh...need anything?"
"No, not really. I just called to check in on you. Are you doing...alright?"
Brock laughs, "Yeah, yeah, absolutely. I'm just at home, studying right now. Did you know that plastic surgery doesn't actually involve the use of any plastic? Wild, huh? It comes from the Greek word 'plastikos' meaning malleable or moldable."
Dr. Collins gently smiles, "Yeah, I knew that. Anyways, stay safe out there, alright?"
The Ghoul pointedly responds, "You too, doc. I saw the news. It's--it's fucking messed up, man!"
"It sure is, Brock. It sure is. And good luck with your studies."
Brock smiles and flips a page of his textbook, "Thanks. It...means a lot coming from ya. Goodnight, I guess?"
"Yeah, goodnight. If there's anything I need, I'll call you, but otherwise, just keep doing your thing. Stay safe and stay smart."
"Yes, sir."
The line goes dead and the Stoker gets back in the car.
Roxanne asks him, "Who was that, hmm? Your girlfriend?"
"No."
Roxy faintly laughs, "Alright, well keep your secrets. Still, if you're gonna be checking in on my dear sister, then I'd like to know a little more about you. It's only fair in my opinion."
Dr. Collins starts the car up, the engine roaring and sputtering to life, "Fair enough. What do you wanna know?"
Roxanne lifts her chin, "Let's start at the beginning."
A journey that would normally take many minutes is now reduced to a few minutes. The streets of Flimont City are nearly empty. Blaring sirens and heavily-armed police can be seen in virtually every corner.
Dr. Collins tells her his story. Roxanne tells him a bit of her story. That's usually how it goes- quid pro quo.
In time, they arrive at the intended destination. Dr. Collins greets Jadwiga. She bows her head and welcomes the good doctor inside, a somewhat excited, albeit flustered, expression on her face.
Inside the room, Penny is lying in bed, the tubes and wires still connecting her to the machinery nearby. The Tzimisce doctor takes a few moments to go over the machinery and its many complexities. He proceeds to check her vitals.
After all is done, he concludes, "She seems fine. No change. No worsening."
Roxanne gasps in relief and her expression softens. Jadwiga cracks a small smile and excuses herself.
The good doctor notices Roxanne's change in demeanor. It's a nice feeling to see people so relieved when he tells them some good news.
Roxy sniffles and wipes her eyes. She walks over and sits on the edge of the bed, gently holding her sister's limp hand.
"Don't worry, Penny. I've found someone else. He's gonna take real good care of you now, alright? OK?" Roxanne's mouth shakes and a small tear of blood escapes the corner of her eye.
Dr. Collins shuts the door, lest a mortal like Jadwiga see this.
Roxy looks up at the Flesh-Shaper, "How very considerate of you..." After that, the tears of blood keep flowing and she starts crying and shaking, her shoulders heaving.
Dr. Collins feels bad for her, so he stands there in silence, respectfully giving her some space.
She sobs and shakes, "I'm a terrible sister. I'm--I'm sorry, Penny. Please, please forgive me."
The good doctor keeps quiet, his head respectfully lowered. He's not sure if he should offer any words of comfort or advice.
He decides not to. This is a moment between sisters, 1 a vampire while the other is a comatose mortal.
In due time, Roxanne calms down and gets up. She faces the Tzimisce, "I have work, doctor."
The doc picks up on what she means, "Oh, oh, right. Do you...want me to drop you off anywhere. I also have spare condoms if you--"
Roxy can't help but chuckle at this, "Oh, no, no. It's alright. But, thank you for being so considerate. I--I really have no idea how you do it, Dr. Collins."
"Do what, exactly?"
The Brujah sniffs, "All this...doctoring stuff. Healing people, curing them, figuring things out...and when all good options have been exhausted, giving them the bad news. How can you stand to see all these people suffer? You know, I used to think that Malkavians were the crazy ones, but now I know better."
The doc frowns a little and sighs, "Well, I do what I can, I guess. It's really all we as doctors and medical professionals can do, really. We're not gods, not even close. At the end of the night, we're humans too."
Roxy puts her hand on the Flesh-Shaper's shoulder, "Thank you for coming here, Dr. Collins. I'll see to it that your efforts are adequately rewarded, OK?"
Dr. Collins gulps and shakes his head, "No, no. I have no interest in...sleeping with you, Ms. Roxanne. I'll check in on your sister when I can, no questions asked, no additional compensation necessary."
The Punk nods, "Hmm. I like your style."
The doc tilts his head a little and gives her a curious look, "And when was the last time you went for a checkup?"
The Brujah prostitute scoffs, "Me, a checkup? Doctor, we're Kindred- immortal and forever the age at which we were Embraced. Why in god's name would I need to have my heartbeat listened to when I have none?"
Dr. Collins retorts, "It's more complicated than that. Immortality doesn't necessarily mean indestructibility. I don't expect every single Kindred to go to their local GP, but at the very least, you should come by for a quick checkup."
Roxanne side-eyes him and asks, "Is this a ruse for you to see me naked or something? Is it a sort of...kink thing? Some roleplay, because I'm more than willing to play along, but we have to establish boundaries, y'know."
The Tzimisce holds his hands up and quickly clarifies, "What?! No! No, no. I'm being serious here. It's nothing like that, not even remotely...not that there's anything wrong with it, it's just not for me. Look, the point is that it's important for your mental and physical health."
Roxy purses her lips and considers it. She shrugs, "Hmm. I'll think about it."
"I'm good at what I do, Ms. Roxanne. I've been studying Kindred psychophysiology for years now."
"OK, fine."
Dr. Collins prepares to head out of the apartment, "Also, you'll need to fill in the necessary forms. No more doodles, please. Those kinds of papers don't come cheap and I'm not exactly rolling in money at the moment."
Jadwiga excitedly walks over to the Tzimisce doctor and asks, "How is she, Dr. Collins? All fine?"
"Yes, she's fine, Ms. Jadwiga. And, how are you keeping?"
Jadwiga puts her hands on her hips and declares, "I am fine. Many thanks to you. Wait...1 moment, please."
Dr. Collins looks at Roxanne, who shrugs cluelessly. Jadwiga returns with a plastic container that has some goulash in it. She offers the food to the good doctor, "Here. It is something...a thank-you for all the work you have done."
Dr. Collins is touched, "Wow. Thank you. Um...thanks."
Well, the goulash looks thick and red, but it's not blood. Dr. Collins figures he'll give it to Wesley. The kid needs something to cheer him up after that traumatizing incident with the cops earlier.
It could've easily ended up in him being a police violence statistic, but luckily, it didn't.
Luckily.
Dr. Collins drives back to the clinic. Along the way, he sees a lot of stuff. He doesn't stop or slow down, though. He doesn't want to get involved in any sort of shenanigans, especially when hopped-up and armed cops are involved in the mix.
Normally, he'd bolt across a zebra crossing (red light or not) to save a life, do chest compressions for someone lying on the pavement and such, but tonight, he keeps going.
The good doctor gives the whole of the yummy homemade goulash to the receptionist. Wesley's eyes light up and he looks happy, but the pain is still apparent, it lingers like a bad odor.
Dr. Collins says, "Enjoy it, kid."
Wesley smiles and nods, "Y--Yeah, Thank you, doc. You--you're the best!"
Dr. Collins dryly responds, "I try, kid. I try. I'll be in my office, taking care of some stuff."
Back at the Lancaster mansion...
Clarence dials his son's number again. This time, the old and cantankerous man finally gets through to his son.
Laurence answers, sounding cheery and upbeat, "Hello!"
Clarence sighs, "I've been trying to get through to you, boy. Is everything alright? Are you OK?"
Laurence's smile can be heard from the other side, "Oh, everything is fine, daddy. Just fine."
Clarence grunts and harrumphs, "Hrrrmhgph. Listen, it's been taken care of."
The son feigns ignorance, eyes narrowed, "What's been taken care of?"
The Lancaster family patriarch sighs and annoyedly responds, "Your problems with those 3 goddamn employees of yours...and the kid, too."
Laurence nervously licks his lips and shakily nods, "I...see. Well, thank you, father."
"Hmph. 'Thank you'. Is that all your daddy gets for cleaning up your goddamn messes, even after all these years and everything I've done for you?!"
"Daddy, please--"
Clarence's voice lowers into a menacing growl, "Don't. So, where you now, hmm?"
"In Magnolia City. You knew that already."
"Hmpfh, still fornicating with that buttermilk, huh? Well, I should be glad that you can't make no more babies at least. Speaking of, your boy, Marcus, has got himself a wild tongue. Just like his Jezebel momma."
Laurence sighs, "What did Marcus do now?"
"Fool went and got himself involved with some goddamn whore. It's bad 'nuff that 1 of your boys is a homosexual, now the other is chasing after them harlots! At least Quincy shows some goddamn promise."
"Well, daddy, he's an adult now, so there's not much I can do about that. As for Tequan, I'm not exactly proud of his lifestyle choices, either, but I tried sending him to 1 of them places when he was young, but it didn't work out when his momma got involved..."
Clarence growls, "You're weak, boy. That's why you're in this goddamn mess. Your boys have been nothing but a goddamn disappointment, 1 after the other, and you can't even do shit about it."
Laurence screams through the phone, "WHAT DO YOU WANT ME TO DO, HUH?! I tried everything, every-fucking-thing within my power to raise those boys like you raised me, but I guess life had other plans for them, huh?!"
Clarence shakes and winces, but quickly gathers his composure, "Don't you dare raise that voice of yours at your own daddy, fool. I'm still here cleaning that mess you made last month."
"Look, I'm grateful for that, alright? It--it was getting out of hand. Those 3 guys threatened to go public. They was askin' too many questions! I--I couldn't have that, so I came to you to see if you'd uh...get rid of a--and take care of the problem for me, y'know?"
"Don't patronize me, boy--"
"It wasn't, I was--"
"Shut up and let your daddy speak. Ain't got no goddamn manners no more, huh? It's taken care of, that's all you should know. Next time, well, you better pray there won't be a next time, boy."
Laurence gulps and thanks his father yet again, "Thank you."
Clarence queries, "Do you know how much Marcus makes in a year?"
"I...assume it's at least $100,000 a year? I know you've set high expectations for us Lancaster boys, heh."
"$95,000. That's how much that goddamn son of yours makes in a year."
"Oh, I see. Well, this is news to me. I always thought him being a stockbroker would mean a minimum of 6 digits." Laurence feels a little uneasy upon hearing this, but he doesn't let his tone reflect that.
Clarence commands, "Then, drop whatever it is you're doing in Magnolia City and get your ass back here and straighten that boy out. If you won't, then I will...and you don't want me doing it my way." He sounds utterly menacing and ominous at the end.
Laurence gulps and feels the hair on the back of his neck stand up, "OK, I'll uh--I'll talk to him."
"I said...Get. Back. Here. There's some things you can't do over no phone calls."
Laurence sighs and rubs his forehead, "I'll try. I have a good, lucrative, deal that I'm looking into here. If it goes through, it'll allow the company to begin expanding to the Northwestern United States; that's too damn good of a deal to pass up on, dad!"
He shakily adds, "Y--you yourself taught me the value of a good deal and when to bite the bullet. And this is a big one. It's a big fucking opportunity for us all..." his voice trails off at the end and he gulps. He waits with bated breath for his father's reply.
The old man scoffs, "So I hear. So I hear. Get back here, boy. Don't expect anything to work in your way when your own house is in disarray."
"Hmph, fine. I'll book a ticket right away," Laurence half-heartedly promises.
"You better."
Before Laurence can say goodbye, the line goes dead. He sets the phone down and looks around his fancy hotel room, wondering what to do now. He paces around a little and nervously mutters to himself.
He sits down at a table and sips some coffee. His mind is racing. What will he say to Marcus? Will the deal go through? An older and fair-skinned woman strides in, carrying bags of expensive clothes.
She sets them near the bed and hugs Laurence from behind. He runs his thumb across the top of her hand and says, "You're back." She kisses him on the cheek and takes a seat opposite him.
Her expression is one of concern. She asks, "Is everything OK?"
Laurence takes a deep breath, "It's just my daddy. He wants me to get back to Flimont City, to sort out Marcus and the boys."
The woman responds, "Well, I have no interest in meeting your father, Laurence. Can't we stay a little longer, honey? Hasn't it been fun so far?"
"It...has. How did your shopping go? You uh...find everything you were looking for?"
Some time later...
The party dies down after 1 too many complaints from 1 too many neighbors. Mauve decided to shove some cotton in her ears, but her vampiric super senses still made her head pound. Paul and LDJ take their leave after chatting with Quincy and Tequan.
Time to go buy some nose candy.
Paul looks hyped-up, but that's probably the drugs lingering in his system. LDJ gets in his car and Paul follows suit. They didn't even bother to check in on poor Mauve- they just ignored her (reasonable) request and partied the night away like there's no tomorrow.
As Luciano starts the car, he sees his other girlfriend, Sophie, entering the apartment building. He pokes his head out and hollers, "Hey, Sophie!"
Sophie is dressed in some shiny sequins dress. She's wearing stilettos and her makeup looks like it was done by a pro. She struts over to the window and smiles, "Hi, baby." She blows a kiss.
Luciano catches it with a laugh and smacks his lips, "Woo! That's good shit right there, haha!"
Sophie asks, "Where are you going?"
LDJ answers, "Heading to see a friend, get some stuff done, y'know."
Sophie does a sweeping gesture to the apartment building, "I am here to look at some places for a friend that shall be arriving soon. He's looking to buy a nice place in this city."
LDJ chuckles, "Haha, yeah? Well, you tell him he picked the right goddamn city. Hey, you free later?"
Sophie chuckles and shakes her head, "No, baby. I have places to go, people to meet. Being loyalty is 50% keeping up appearances, 30% cocktail parties, and 20% making sure that everyone in your circle gets along. Someone has to do it."
LDJ smiles and nods, "Yeah, I hear you. I--I uh...look forward to seeing you later, babe. Whenever that is."
She leans closer and asks, "Did you break things off with...her yet?"
Paul fails at stifling a few giggles. Sophie frowns at this and prods, "What's so funny, Mr. Cho? You do know that it is impolite to laugh at random for no reason at all. Unless...Luciano, DID you stop seeing that other woman?"
Luciano hisses and gets all defensive, "Yeah, yeah. I fuckin' broke it up with her. See? I even forgot her goddamn name or--or what she even looks like."
Sophie regards him for a moment, she lifts her chin and states, "You know I love you, baby. But I must also know that you feel the same way about me."
LDJ laughs and puts his hands on the window frame, "Well, I'm still here, ain't I? AIN'T I? That should tell you all ya need to know, right?" he gives her a big, goofy grin.
Sophie chuckles and shakes her head, "Hmm. Perhaps. Goodbye, my dear." She turns on her heel and elegantly walks off.
Luciano screams out, "So, does that mean we're still on??"
No answer. She simply makes a vague gesture and keeps walking. She disappears into the apartment building. Luciano smacks his lips, "Damn, what a catch." He shrugs and starts the car.
He drives off into the night. Paul fiddles with the radio and eventually lands on an appropriate station for them both. The streets remain empty. On the way to Marco's drug den, the duo see a bunch of youth being frog-marched into an armored police van.
Luciano slows down a bit, "Jesus."
Paul shakes his head, "They probably had it coming. Crime in this city is out of control, man."
Luciano lowers the volume and puts more pressure on the accelerator, "Well, at least our money keeps us safe, huh? Money is...life. Money is love. Money is peace. Money...tames the beast in all us."
Paul takes over, "I'm a man and I'm relentless. Money is civilization. We're the assets, we're the future. Moving and winning."
Luciano growls like a maniac, "Grrrraaaah! We're sharks in an ocean of blood. Money is the end of the story. The happy ending, heh."
Paul adds, "We are the American Dream. We're it's embodiment. We're always hungry for more--"
LDJ cuts in, "--Always thirsting for more. Never satisfied with 6 zeroes or 8 or 9. We're gonna be legends. They'll write stories about us. They'll make fuckin' movies about us, TV shows, brand deals, merchandise!"
Paul sharply exhales, "Damn, that was a part of our...college speech, right?"
Luciano nods and drives past a closed barbershop, "Mm-hmm. The looks on those people's faces when we got up on that stage...fuckin' priceless."
"Heh, yeah. I can still see the looks on their faces. Do you know how many of them work at, like, fucking KFC now?"
"Exactly. Now, let's go and get some good shit for you, huh?"
They arrive at Marco's drug den in due time. It looks the same, it still reeks, and it's still full of all kinds of people, a different assemblage of unfortunate souls and human tragedies- young, senior, black, pale, boy, woman, and so on and so forth.
Paul follows Luciano inside. Yumi is huddled in a corner. When she sees the duo she takes some time to get up. She groans and meanders over. Her clothes look filthy, her face is smeared with sweat and grime, and she looks very unsteady on her feet.
Paul snorts, "Jesus Christ."
Yumi wobbles over and mutters, "Y--you guys here for Marco? A--again?"
LDJ puffs out his chest and looks around the drug den, "Yeah. Where is that slimy motherfucker?"
Marco steps out a dark corner, a toothpick dangling from his smirking mouth, "Who you calling 'slimy', eh?"
Paul laughs nervously and puts his hands in his pockets, "Shit, Marco. You scared the crap outta us!"
Marco laughs and pulls Yumi closer, "That was the point, Mr. Cho. So, my favorite customer, what brings you to my place of business at this late hour, hmm?"
Marco's wearing a baggy shirt that reads: "FBI Federal Boobs Inspector." He's got black shorts and a bucket hat on.
Yumi whimpers, "I'm so tired..."
LDJ looks at her and asks, "The fuck's wrong with her?"
Marco tightens his grip on Yumi's shoulder, "All that OxyContin shit, man. Imagine that, a legitimate businessman like me being run out of the game by a fucking pharma company. Gruh, the goddamn audacity."
He continues, "Eh, what the hell. You didn't come here for that, So, Mr. Cho? The usual, I take it? To be honest, I wasn't expecting you to go through a pound of coke in under a week..."
Paul scratches his chin, "Well...I need it, man. I really, REALLY need it!"
Marco chortles and orders Yumi, "Hey, sweetie? Get us some of that vodka from last time, alright?"
Yumi lowers her head and goes off to fetch some drinks. Paul takes a seat and gets comfortable. He looks around the drug den and sees many people shooting up, smoking weed, inhaling, etc.
LDJ takes a seat and casually asks, "So, how'd you get into this business, Marco?"
Marco waits for the vodka to arrive. Yumi's hands violently shake and she ends up pouring the last of that special vodka onto the ground. She curses and wipes her forehead, looking very frustrated and exhausted.
Marco sighs and mutters, "Oh, goddamn it. Stay...stay right here, OK?"
Paul chuckles a little, "Yeah, no shit."
Marco goes off to deal with Yumi. He takes her to a corner and shoves her up against a wall, "What the fuck, Yumi! That shit was rare, expensive, and hard to come by, you dumb bitch! I don't wanna do this, but you're giving me no other choice here."
Yumi starts crying, her voice quavering, "I'm sorry, I--I'm just tired, I'm really tired. I want to sleep, but I can't! I just need some Oxy, please, Marco. I tried doctors, but I need a prescription for that."
With pleading eyes, she begs, "Please, Marco. I--I'll do anything you ask. Anything!!!"
Marco licks his lips and points to a bulky brown package sitting on a messy table, "Deliver that tonight. The address is on the top. You know how to read, right? And, under no circumstances are you to open that shit up, understood?"
"Will I get my Oxy if I do that for you?"
Marco cups her gaunt cheeks and promises, "Of course. Do this for me and you'll get paid enough to buy a whole fucking stash of that Purdue shit, alright?"
Yumi's expression changes from desperate to slightly hopeful. She wipes the tears away, grabs the package and rattles it around a few times, likely in an attempt to guess what's inside.
Marco grimaces and hisses at her, "Fuck! Watch it! Careful, careful. That shit's...delicate, alright?"
Yumi nods and puts the package under her arm, "O--OK, I'll take this to um...whoever. Is there a special knock or something?"
Marco rolls his eyes, "Just walk up to the door and say that you have a delivery for them. They'll be expecting you, OK?"
Yumi nods and leaves the drug den. Unbeknownst to her, she's carrying vials of blood for some Kindred. Marco acts as a sort of middle man in whatever arrangement he's got going on.
So long as he's got his money, his cream, he's not gonna ask why someone needs a package full of vials of blood.
Luciano throws his head back and is already getting bored with waiting.
Paul sniffs and nervously looks around.
Marco returns, arms stretched out, "So, where were we, huh?"
Paul glowers at his drug dealer, "My...my stuff, Marco. Where is it?"
Marco casually claps back, "Show me my 'stuff' first, Mr. Cho."
Paul angrily reaches into his suit pocket and slams an envelope of cash onto the table with a thud.
Marco smiles in satisfaction, "Ah, splendid. I'll be right back. 1 pound, like last time?"
"Y--yeah."
Marco snaps his fingers and whispers to some guy. The guy bows his head and goes to get Paul's freeze all packaged and ready to go.
As he waits, Marco asks, "So, where did we leave off?"
Paul shrugs, "We were wondering how an...entrepreneurial and enterprising guy like you got into..."
He vaguely gestures around the place, "...all of this?"
Marco adjusts his bucket hat and smirks, "Ah, well, that's quite an interesting little tidbit from way-back-when, y'know, the good ol' days."
Luciano disinterestedly says, "We have time." He spaces out and lets the drug dealer do all the yapping.
As Marco is (clearly) making shit up on the fly, Paul fidgets and starts tapping his foot, "What's taking so long? C'mon, Marco. W--where is it?"
Marco stops mid-sentence and whistles someone else over. He tells them to go help his other guy get the coke ready.
Marco picks up from where he left off, "Yeah, you know how it is. I had to hustle. Had to do what I did to make ends meet in the mean streets of Flimont fucking City. I did a bit of this and that. Started running numbers, then I got into bookie gigs, then the whole pyramid scheme thing."
He turns to LDJ and pokes his arm, "Speaking of, I know your dad used to love running those kinds of schemes."
Luciano rolls his eyes, "I don't really care."
Marco snarks, "Still unable to escape your dad's shadow, huh? Pfft. I was already making mad money when I was 12. While you was being chauffeured and going on vacations to places I can't even pronounce with a straight face, I was hustling and running my ass off."
Luciano dryly retorts, "Oh, boohoo, poor little Marco had to claw his way out. Did you get a paper cut or something? Do you need a Band-Aid to go along with that tissue you're clearly holding?"
Paul laughs, but the laughter soon dies down. He still looks worried.
Marco shrugs, "Ah, sticks and stones. After a while, all you rich cats need me as much as I need you. You game the system, screw people over, and then they come here looking for...relief, an answer, escape, y'know?"
LDJ leans back and folds his arms over his chest, "Oh, gimme a fuckin' break. They're here because they're losers who made bad choices in life. And you do realize that I could buy and sell this dump in the blink of an eye?"
"Sure you could, Mr. Donovan. Sure you could. Buy the losers for all I care; pennies on the dollar, hahaha! But, we need each other. Rich cats like you need guys like me to keep you going, y'know, doing your thing."
He goes on, "And, what would you have me do with them, hmm? The poor, the lost, the forgotten ones. Give them a job, like in those sappy Christmas movies? You give 'em jobs, but how long do those jobs last, huh? 2 weeks? 1 month? 6 months? 4 years?"
Marco snaps his fingers, "Poof! Then, what, hmm?"
Paul furrows his brows and chimes in, "Then they find another job. It's not our problem. We're not their parents, we're not their god or their babysitter. If they can't take care of themselves, then no one else is gonna do it for them, man. It's just the way life works."
LDJ adds, "Yeah, they're just a bunch of fucking lazy losers who want a free ride."
Marco chuckles, "Heh, oh, you rich cats and your ways with words, haha!"
After a few seconds of awkward silence, the coke is in Paul's grubby hands. Marco even brings a weighing scale and weighs it out in front of the duo, "See? I don't even cheat my customers or screw 'em over. Unlike Luciano's dad over here..." he shoots a baleful glance at LDJ.
Luciano glowers back, "Pfft. You're nothing but a dope-peddling piece of trash surrounded by other pieces of trash. C'mon, let's get the fuck outta here before the cops show up and start shooting everyone here, heh."
LDJ imitates Tony Montana from Scarface, pulls out a fake assault rifle, and starts miming some gunfire, "Ratta-tat-tat!" he's laughing and pretending to shoot people.
Paul puts his pound of coke in a bag, thanks Marco, and hurries out with LDJ.
Luciano drops his buddy off back home and smirks, "Hey, enjoy that, alright? And make it fucking last. I hate going to the dump. Next time, YOU go alone, alright?"
Paul unbuckles his seatbelt and remarks, "Whoa, Marco really got on your nerves with all that stuff he said about your dad, huh?"
LDJ growls, "Fuck him. I'm not my dad. I'm NOT living in his goddamn shadow. I'm my own fuckin' man making his way in the world. And when I do, even he'll be lining up to kiss the ring."
Delusions of grandeur...
Paul laughs and playfully slaps his buddy's shoulder, "And uh...they'll be kissing my ring, too? Right?"
Luciano laughs and slaps Paul's hand away, "Yeah, yeah, yeah. 'Course. I don't ever want a repeat of this morning. So, snort up as much as you have to, but save some for any future emergencies. Got it?"
"Yeah, man. I got it. Thanks."
"I'll be going now."
"Alright, alright. Goodnight, man."
Luciano drives off into the night. He heads back to his place. On the way, he sees more arrests and police raids, but he keeps going, his mind now focused on other things.
As the night rolls on, Marcus's shindig dies down. The guests all stumble away or lounge about, passing around a joint, chatting about anything and everything under the sun.
Despite all this, the money, the fancy house, the rich friends, Marcus has a big ol' Roxanne-shaped hole in his beating heart. He leaves his apartment and drives his car to where the Brujah might be at this time of the night.
He knows pretty much all of her spots.
He spots a woman leaving a cozy room with a naughty smile on her face. She bites her lower lip and turns to walk off into the night.
Marcus walks up to the door. It's an apartment building that's basically in a limbo of sorts. Most people who occupy it are either uni students or young professionals, or some mix of both.
It's quiet tonight. Marcus knocks on the door and waits. Eventually, the door opens.
Roxanne stands before him. Her hair is messy and she has no makeup on. She's wearing a loose-fitting pullover shirt and some shorts.
Marcus's heart skips a beat. He gasps and tries to say something, but the words get stuck in his throat.
Roxy looks at him with indifference, "Marcus. Here to foist another Porsche on me? I have no idea what happened to the other one."
Marcus gulps and looks into the Brujah sex worker's eyes, "I want to be with you."
Roxanne sighs deeply, "I already told you, we don't have any special connection or whatever you've deluded yourself into believing. You can't keep doing this to me."
"Please, Roxanne. I love you."
Roxy shuts her eyes and takes a deep breath. When she reopens them, she says, "I can't get attached. Not in--not in this line of work--"
Marcus pleads, "You don't have to do that shit no more. I moved into a nice place. You can stay there with me and not have to ever worry about money again, girl. It'll be like living in a fairytale or something, y'know?"
The Brujah shakes her head, "That's the problem...you think you're some great hero here to whisk me away to some land of milk and honey, but the world is a whole lot more...complicated and messy than that. YOU should know that better than anyone."
Marcus steps closer and gently caresses her cheek, "You mean so much to me, Roxanne."
Roxy shrugs him off and scowls at him, "Look, you're a nice guy, but we're just not meant to be, Marcus. There are things in my...'life' that you just couldn't comprehend."
"I got money, girl. Lots of it. And my grandpa is on his last legs. When he dies, he's gonna leave me with a helluva lot of cash."
Roxy turns on her heel and shakily says, "You're making this harder for me. Just go back home to your fancy place, Marcus. I'm not meant for you."
Marcus steps inside the room and shuts the door behind him, "No."
He grabs her shoulders and begs, "Please! I can take care of you. I can make your life so much better, girl. Just...just gimme a chance."
Roxanne shoves him against the door and her face is mere inches away from his. Marcus gasps at how strong and powerful she is.
The Brujah firmly states, "No. You don't know what you're getting yourself into. You'll never understand. P--Please, go home."
The mortal leans forward for a kiss. Roxanne turns her head away and lets go of him. She paces around the room for a few moments and then goes over to a window.
She parts the curtains and looks outside at the cityscape below. She mutters, "You didn't come here to whisk me away...I can only spend an hour with you, Marcus. I have others to see tonight."
Without second though, Marcus reaches into his back pocket and gives Roxanne 300 bucks, "E--Extra if you um...y'know."
Roxanne sighs and pulls him closer. She dips him down and kisses him deeply on the lips. Marcus is already in heaven. He hugs her tightly as the passionate moment unfolds.
He moans and feels himself getting turned on by all this. It's been quite a while since he's last been with her. Roxy starts grinding her body against his. Marcus is getting rock-hard.
With preternatural strength, she rips his clothes off and forcefully pushes him onto the creaky bed. The room is medium-sized and covered in clutter. The wallpaper is peeling in places. A faint smell of incense lingers in the air.
The bed squeaks with every movement.
Roxanne strips naked and straddles Marcus. He tries to reach for her cold breasts, but she smacks his hand away, "Ah-ah-ah, not yet."
Marcus nods and heaves. He licks his lips and watches Roxanne position herself above his fully erect cock.
It doesn't take long for them to get into it. As the minutes tick down, they keep going at it, moaning and groaning.
Roxanne's back arches and she cries out in ecstasy, her eyes rolling back. Marcus is right behind her, groaning loudly and thrusting wildly.
The Punk eventually sits on his face and some of her Vitae (inevitably) drips into his mouth. He coughs a little, but he soon recovers and keeps licking her pussy. She grinds against his tongue, her fingers digging into his scalp.
She rides his face and moans in pleasure.
Happy hour.
Chapter 10: Hey, Rock Star
The sun rises. Another day dawns in Flimont City. Some people wake up hungover, others wake up to a nice surprise, some wake up feeling happy and fulfilled, many others wake up feeling sad and lonely.
A few wake up feeling absolutely nothing at all.
Flimont City, despite its cheery disposition (at first glance) and the promise of a bright, fresh, new start, is not as great as everyone would like it to be.
It's falling apart at the seams (literally and abstractly) and the latest developments have essentially given the cops a pretext to declare war on the entire population, essentially acting as some sort of occupying force (as if they weren't already) and treating everyone, especially the poor and needy, like fucking savages.
The police chief calls yet another press conference and doubles down on his threats as the Governor stands aside, nodding silently.
Nothing too great happens in the morning. LDJ lounges in his joint, he goes for a joyride, stops by for a quickie with Sophie, and then heads back home to crash.
Paul enjoys a few lines of his white powder. He then goes to crunching a few numbers and making sure that the accounts are in order. He does a little light exercise, takes a shower, and goes to bed as the sun begins to descend beneath the buildings.
Once the sun has completely set, the sky is bathed in this ethereal shade of orange. It's beautiful, but it also carries with it an ominous and foreboding feeling. The nights in Flimont City aren't always friendly and welcoming.
Sometimes, the darkness is just...there.
And, sometimes, that darkness has teeth. Sharp teeth, fangs one might call them. And sometimes, that darkness isn't afraid to bite. To take without thought for consequences.
After all, it's a world of darkness.
In times like these, the Masquerade is in a fragile spot, but Prince Antonio Black and Sheriff Velma DuPont are more than capable of handling whatever comes their way.
Of course, the former has run the city for a 100 years and the latter has been at his side for the past 50. They have the experience, the connections, the intelligence, the power, and the patience. They know the score and they've played it well for so very, very long.
There's a reason the Ventrue are also known as The Clan of Kings.
Anyways...
Diego the Gangrel stirs from his day-sleep. Marisol awakens a minute later. He stretches his cold and stiff limbs, yawns, and slowly gets up. His joints crackle. He grumbles, "Oh, god."
Marisol blinks and wipes the blurriness from her eyes. She groans and wraps her cold arms around her boyfriend's chest. He turns and kisses her on the cheek, "Good evening, mi corazon."
She smiles and responds, "Hey, D. Rest well?"
Diego laughs, "Of course! Did YOU snooze well?"
She nods, "Uh-huh."
He scratches his head and asks, "So, you gonna go to work tonight or skip?"
Marisol exhales sharply, "If I take another 'sick' day, I won't have a work to go back to. You know how it is, D. Without this job--"
Diego pulls her closer and gives her a gentle peck on the forehead, "I know, I know. Your abuela's house, our Haven, is all we've got."
"Hmph, yes. And how about you? Still going to play chaperone for that Baali Gringo down in the basement?"
"Yeah, heh heh. Markham is...an interesting vato, I'll give him that. I think he might need me to drop him near some neighborhood so he can look into something. Also, I have to check on the others. I hope they're doing OK, Marisol. These fucking cops never got along with us busters, now..."
She grimly finishes his thought, "...it's only going to get even more worse, huh? Hmph."
Out of concern, Diego, strokes his girlfriend's cold cheek and asks, "Your uh...driver's license all fine? And you got a good helmet, right? You can always take the pickup if you want."
Marisol presses her lips into a thin line, "It's fine, D. And what about you? Is YOUR stuff up-to-date and valid?"
He laughs and ruffles her hair, "Pfft, of course! I got a whole bag of tricks ready if they come after me, girl. We're fine. We're survivors, we're Gangrel, we've made it this far."
Marisol's expression falters, "I just want to make sure that everything's OK, D. I...I know that things have been tough and all, but--"
Diego reassures her, "Listen, it's all gonna be OK. Like I said, we're Gangrel- we got them Survival Instincts and ain't no busters ever gonna get the drop on us, alright? C'mon, you'll do fine at your job and I'll see you real soon."
He looks her straight in the eye and smiles, "Don't worry about me, baby. I'll be alright. You just stay safe out there, OK?"
"I love you, D."
"Love you too." The 2 Ferals share a sweet kiss and get ready to go on with their night.
After showering, Marisol puts on something a bit more formal- a cream-colored blouse and some tights. She accessorizes with a few earrings and applies some light makeup.
Diego goes for a checkered shirt (not tucked in) and a pair of baggy, but faded chinos. He puts his cap on backwards and applies some Axe deodorant. He got into Axe Body Spray after seeing this extremely cheesy commercial on the telly.
Markham rises from his day-long slumber and takes a brief shower. He wears a white shirt (tucked in, but no belt), a long black coat, and a pair of trousers. He runs a comb through his hair and meets his 2 Gangrel hosts upstairs.
Diego stretches out his hands, "Heeey, lookin' good, devil man! You rest easy, homes?"
Markham is his usual self, "Mm-hmm. And uh...how did you both sleep?"
Diego grins, "Fine, just fine. So, what's the agenda for tonight, huh?"
Marisol grabs her things and prepares to head out. She gives her boyfriend a quick kiss on the lips, gets on her scooter, and zooms off, the sounds of her wheels fading into the distance.
Markham puts his hands in his pockets and shrugs, "I have a few places I wanna look into tonight. Y'know, Diego, I can always rent a car. I have the money..."
Diego shakes his head, "Nah, hermano. I like taking you around this place. Besides, with how shitty everything is right now, having a Gringo like you in the passenger seat just might save me from being pulled over by the cops, y'know what I mean."
The Feral quickly adds, "Not that I'm using you or anything like that- don't get the wrong idea, homes. But, I mean, with the recent stuff happening, it's kinda hard not to seen as a suspect just because of who I am, y'know? Anyway...so, where to first?"
The Baali plainly answers, "Sunnyvale."
Diego whistles and grabs his pickup truck keys from off the table near the front door. He sits on a nearby stool and puts on some scuffed loafers. After some effort, he manages to shove his feet into them.
The Gangrel and his guest climb aboard the somewhat old, but highly dependable, pickup truck. Diego turns the ignition, the engine sputters, and the vehicle lurches forward. After a bit of pestering, the engine settles and they head off.
As they drive, Diego asks, "So, what's so special about this Sunnyvale place, hmm?"
"Like I told you last time, someone I spoke to was living there."
"Hmm, yeah, yeah. I'm not gonna drop you right in the middle of that place. Reasons. Um...that OK with you?"
Markham shrugs, "Sure. And where are we gonna feed for tonight?"
Ah, the eternal question on the mind of any Kindred regardless of Clan, Bloodline, or Generation. Where's the next sanguine delight gonna come from?
Diego's eyebrows shoot up and he sucks some air through his teeth, "Normally, we'd hit some of our usual spots, but with all these fucking cops crawling around like cockroaches, it's better to go further out and look elsewhere."
He takes his eyes off the road for a moment and reassures, "But, I'm a pro at finding places with warm people. So, yeah, no worries, devil man. It's cool, we're good."
Markham is sitting back, his arm resting on the door. The wind is blowing his hair back. It's not entirely unpleasant. There's also not as many cars as there usually are.
Even Diego is taken aback by this. With wide eyes he remarks, "Whoa...in all my time in this city, I can't even think of a single time when a stretch of road was this...traffic-free. It's wild, man. Wild."
Markham nods along, "Back in Seattle, the traffic never got as crazy as it gets here."
"So, how is Seattle, hmm?"
"It's alright, I can't complain."
The drive goes on, the streets aren't as lively as they usually are. The cops are seen every half-mile or so, weapons at the ready, a look of paranoia and spite clear on their faces.
In a few minutes, the duo arrive at the edge of the neighborhood known as Sunnyvale- it is, in essence, a typical suburban neighborhood like the ones oft seen in movies and shows set in or around such locales.
Diego slows down and pulls up alongside a row of tall trees. He looks left, right, and then puts his pickup truck in park. His eyes dart around.
The houses are lined up and nearly identical to one another. White picket fences and neat lawns, etc.
The lights in most of the homes are either off or dimmed. The streets are quiet, the roads are empty, and there's a slight breeze that blows a few stray leaves around. In the distance, an owl hoots and a few cars honk.
Markham unbuckles his seatbelt, opens the door, and steps out, "Alright. I'll call you when I'm done. And thanks."
Diego tips his cap, "No problem, buddy. Just be careful out there. I'm not gonna lie- this place is pretty sketchy, so watch your back. You even know where that buster lived?"
Markham blandly states, "I'll just find the yellow crime scene tape. Besides, I can disappear if things get tight."
Diego understands, "Ah, Obfuscate, huh? Invisible devil man, heh. If things get dicey, gimme a call and I'll go over the speed limit to come get your ass. Alright?"
Markham gives a small thumbs-up and closes the door shut. Diego rolls the window down and calls out, "Just uh...be careful, man. And watch out for cops!"
He drives off into the night, looking around every so often. He mutters, "Shit is wild." He speeds off down the road, the lights of the street lamps flitting by.
Markham keeps his head low and his cold hands in the pockets of his coat. Luckily, they were able to find a living "meal" on the way here, so the eternal Hunger has been sated and the Beast has been quieted.
For now.
The Baali begins walking forward, hoping to find Nicky Schroeder's house and see if there's anything interesting to glean. The neighborhood is eerily quiet and a little chilly. There's no one around, no movement.
A few tricycles are spotted here and there, but nothing much else. A dog growls and barks at the vampire, but he ignores it and moves along.
As he's walking, a woman emerges from 1 of the homes and heads to the front gate. She's carrying a paper bag and mumbling to herself.
Markham decides to try his luck, "Uh...excuse me?"
She looks like an ordinary suburbanite type- casual attire, tired look, average height and weight, blonde hair, indeterminate 30s.
The woman (mortal, presumably) gives the vampire a sideways look, "Yes? Can I help you?"
"I'm looking for a friend who lives around here. A Nicky Schroeder. Do you...know him by any chance?"
The woman softly gasps, a look of fear flashing across her face, "Ooh, um...did you hear about what happened to him?"
Markham feigns ignorance and shakes his head, "What? What happened?"
The woman takes a deep breath and says, "Well, um...it was in the papers. A home invasion gone wrong, they say. I'm sorry, mister...?"
Markham gives his fake last name just to be safe, "Beckett."
"Right, right. Mr. Beckett. His house is that way, the police still haven't removed all the tape, I think."
Markham thanks the woman and starts heading in the direction she pointed to.
He comes across a single-story, red-brick house. There's no police vehicles around, but the aforementioned yellow crime scene tape is still up.
The Baali takes a few looks around, making sure that no one's about to see him go through the backdoor of the home. He walks up to the door, lifts the tape, and goes through, closing the backdoor behind him.
He looks around and is greeted with an interior that is, well, typical of a regular home. The ex-journalist's home is quite neat and tidy, there's stacks of folders and files near a couch by the window.
Markham wraps his hands in a handkerchief (fingerprints and all that) and flips a light switch. Nothing. He checks a nearby window and sees the curtains closed.
There's no power, obviously. He turns his attention to the files and goes through them, hoping to find something more he could use in his case against LDJ and P-Money.
Markham stops in his tracks and sees a chalk outline near the kitchen. He notices a broken cabinet nearby and plenty of shattered plates and bowls and glasses.
If the surrounding disarray is anything to go by, then Nicky didn't go down without a fight, well, some kind of a fight. Or, about as much "fight" as you can put up against a professional contract killer.
He goes back to the files and looks through the contents. In a few minutes, Markham finds something related to Luciano Donovan Senior. Not LDJ, but the next best thing all the same.
It's a notebook full of details on the elder Donovan's dealings, his history in the city, and some interesting little tidbits about his current situation.
Markham already knows, like, 96% of this stuff and Nicky's handwriting is a mess of squiggles and scribbles only readable to the writer himself, but the ex-journalist clearly tried his best to gather as much info (dirt) as possible.
This is pretty much redundant info. Markham puts the notebook back where he found it and makes sure that the curtains are properly closed.
He goes through Mr. Schroeder's oak desk and finds a recording device. He presses play and it plays the last recording: "Met an interesting guy from the SEC...of all places. This one bought me drinks, paid for 'em too. Wanted me to talk about the Donovans. Well, I don't decline free drinks, so I sang."
Markham remembers that it was just a few nights ago when he was talking to Nicky in the bar of the Sheriton Grand.
The recording goes on after Nicky coughs and guffaws: "I got nothing to hide. Everything I told that guy was the honest, capital-T Truth. What he does with that is up to him. Truth be told, I've given up on the system ever bringing crooks like the Donovans to justice. Ah, I need another drink. Too many bad memories that need to be put back in their place."
The recording ends and Markham simply places the device back into the desk. He does 1 last sweep, but can't really find anything.
He does find a small picture of Nicky and his siblings and a dead house plant.
As he's about to leave, the sound of an approaching car is heard. The Baali peers out the window and sees 2 police detectives (they seem dressed like such) get out and walk up to the front door.
Markham stays out of sight and waits. 1 of the detectives, a woman in her 40s, asks, "Why the hell are we even here?"
The other detective, a guy about the same age, remarks, "Because, it's our job, Nina."
Nina scoffs and ducks under the crime scene tape. She holds it up for her partner, "Since when do we give a damn about our 'job'? Besides, that's Nicky-fucking-Schroeder. He wasn't the biggest fan of the FCPD, Ross."
Ross clicks his tongue and walks on, "Tch, yeah. Either way, someone whacked him. Let's just...sniff around so we can at least claim expenses on the gas, hmm?"
Nina faintly chuckles and smirks, "Hmm, sure."
Nina turns the front doorknob and enters. Markham was too late to flip the light switch. For now, he hides inside a tight closet, his body pressed up against the coats and other odds and ends.
He listens intently. The 2 detectives start snooping around and making crass jokes about the dead man whose house they're in.
Nina finds the recording device and starts playing it, "This thing still work? Huh. I'm gonna assume the answer is yes."
Ross pokes his head in and looks at the recording device, "Oh, cool..."
Nina shoots him a look and she hears the last recording. After it's done, she asks, "You think we should follow up on whoever this SEC guy is?"
Ross scoffs at her, "Absolutely not, Nina. We have enough shit on our plate with finding out who killed Officers Davis and Sanchez. Let someone else handle it. We have enough pressure on our asses, why add more, hmm?"
Nina looks around and puts the device back in its original place, "True. Still, it's a bit weird."
"What is?"
"Home invasions don't usually happen in a place like this. Even then, there's hardly anything valuable to steal."
To reinforce her point, she does a wide, sweeping gesture around the place, "I mean, just look at this place. It stinks of washed-up journalist, not easy target."
Ross disinterestedly motions for her to continue with her theory, "Oh, great, you're doing your thing. Again. Please, go on."
Nina sighs and does so, "We know he made a lot of enemies, right?"
"Mm-hmm."
"What if 1 of those enemies did him in and made it look like a home invasion gone wrong?"
Ross points out, "Half the city hated this guy, the other half gave him the stink eye after that whole episode with that tranny hooker and him going at it in a hotel room. Seriously, that video recording was nasty. Hilarious, but nasty."
Nina's lips curl in disgust and she mutters, "Ugh, fuck you for reminding me. Anyway, I'm still convinced that this was no random act. The house is untouched, barely a mess, little signs of a struggle, no forced entry, no ransacking."
"Maybe they panicked. Happens a lot around here, Nina," Ross absentmindedly walks towards a wall and leans against it.
He folds his arms and keeps going, "The city is a fucking mess, everyone's a fucking mess, and we're all a bunch of fucking messes trying to keep our heads above water, Nina. So, let's just go home and try to sleep for a little bit before we have to be up and out again."
Nina huffs and paces around. She leans over and looks at the chalk outline from a few angles, "I dunno, Ross. Something about this isn't adding up."
Ross's shoulders slump and he lets out a deep breath, "Fine. I'll bite. What is it? What's eating you?"
Nina looks around the living room, "You can barely call this a home."
Ross scoffs at her, "Tch, you can say the same thing about your place, Nina."
Nina lightly smacks Ross's arm, "Tsk, not like that, smartass. Look, I've been a cop for a long-ass time and I've seen what a real home looks like. This? It's more like a shithole apartment, or a place for the homeless to squat. Hell, even YOUR place has a little bit of charm."
Ross raises an eyebrow and says, "Hey, don't talk smack about the man pad, alright? The boys at the FCPD love my place, Nina."
Nina shakes her head and chuckles, "Yeah, the 'man pad'. What are you, 12?"
"Ha-ha. Very funny. Can we please quote-unquote 'investigate' so we can get outta here and back on the road? It's kinda nice, y'know, not having to wade through traffic every goddamn day."
"And who's fault is that, Ross?"
"Nobody's."
"Right, so like I was saying..."
Nina puts forth a few theories about what might've really happened. Markham overhears this and can't help but roll his eyes at how ridiculous they ALL sound.
She wildly guesses that it might've been the Russians, the Mafia, the Russian Mafia, the Cartels, or some other organizations and entities that don't have any presence in Flimont City whatsoever.
In the end, Ross just shakes his head and walks back out to their vehicle. Nina is left alone to ponder a bit.
The woman sighs and mumbles, "This is the kinda shit I hate." She rubs her temple and adds, "If we find out who killed you, Nicky, I'll buy 'em a beer, then I'll arrest 'em. Heh, sleep tight, loser."
She closes the door and saunters off to the vehicle. A few seconds later, the engines rev up and they're both driving off.
Absolutely useless.
Markham exits the closet and stretches. At least he wasn't made by those 2 clowns.
It's the little things that one ought to be appreciative about.
The Baali continues to look through Nicky's stuff. He finds an interesting little tidbit- it's a photograph of Luciano Donovan Senior and 2 other men flanking him. They're all huddled close together and looking directly into the camera, arms around each other.
The man on the right is Donald Trump and the man on the left is Jeffrey Epstein. Markham turns the picture over and spots the signatures of the 3 men along with the line: "To all our wonderful little secrets. May each day be a new surprise."
Jesus yikes.
Markham gulps deeply and places the picture back where he found it.
He finds a few more photos of the Donovan patriarch's many daughters. LDJ is pretty much the only (known) son.
There's also a newspaper clipping with a picture of the Donovans standing behind the Governor as the latter gives a speech at some rally. This was taken not long ago.
"Hmm, no surprise there."
Markham Reed sighs deeply and blows a raspberry. He paces around the dead guy's house, but nothing of note jumps up at him. He makes sure to wipe down any surfaces (or things) he touched and quietly leaves through the backdoor.
The rest of the neighborhood is just as quiet. A cat is seen skulking through a trash can, but that's pretty much it.
Markham gets out his cell phone and dials Diego's number. It rings 3 times and then he answers, "Hey, hey, how's it goin', devil man? Done so soon?"
The Baali dryly answers, "Mm-hmm. I didn't find anything, Diego."
"I'll be right over, homes. Wait for me at the same place."
Markham's next destination is the dive bar where those hitters might be at. For this one, he definitely needs to be extra cautious and watch his back.
Those hitters are still onto him and they're not about to let go so easily. Even though he survived the 1st attempt, the 2nd and 3rd and 4th and 5th and 6th attempts are always lurking in the shadows.
The ride pulls up and Markham climbs in. The drive is silent until Diego puts on some Spanish rap and bops his head to the fire beats emanating from the speakers.
Markham sits there, his mind a million miles away.
Diego looks at him and laughs, "You OK, hombre?"
"Huh? Oh, um...yeah. Just thinking about what happened with Nicky. 2 cops, detectives, showed up. Don't worry, I hid from them. They didn't even sound remotely interested in...doing their damn jobs."
Diego shakes his head, "Hmph, yeah, that sounds EXACTLY like detectives who work for the FCPD, alright. When it comes to shooting busters or planting some grass on some kids, sure, they're up for it. When it comes to solving crimes, nah, you're better off getting fucking Snoop Dogg to play the detective."
Markham faintly laughs and looks at the Feral. He shakes his head and says nothing. He goes back to blankly staring out the window and watching the city go by in a slow blur.
The lights of the buildings flit by, the city is bathed in an eerie shade of blue. It's dark and gloomy, darker and gloomier than usual.
Eventually, they arrive at the dive bar that Roxanne mentioned. Markham exits the vehicle, thanks his friend, and heads into the joint.
Diego pokes his head out and asks, "Hey, you want some backup in there?"
Markham turns around, "No, I can handle it. Take care, Diego. And thanks...for everything."
The Gangrel turns the keys and revs up the engine, "Alright. Be careful. Same deal: call me when you're done and I'll come pick you up, OK?"
"Got it."
Diego drives off, but doesn't immediately leave the area. He parks a few meters away and watches on, a hint of curiosity in those eyes of his.
The dive bar is a hole-in-the-wall type of establishment. It's dark, dingy, and there's a faint stench of cigarettes and cheap booze. The furniture is rickety and the floors are sticky.
The patrons are mostly a mix of locals, regulars, and drifters. They're hunched over their glasses, their eyes glazed over, and their expressions grim and unchanging.
Markham pushes the black door open and bends down as he enters, his head almost hitting the frame. He straightens himself and surveys the interior.
The bar is long and rectangular-shaped, with plenty of wooden booths and seats along the sides. There are some small circular tables around the area. A lone pool table is near the back, its green surface surprisingly clean and tidy.
A small TV is hung up on the wall with some sports game playing. The volume is low. No one seems to be interested in watching the game, but some others are occasionally glancing upwards.
A woman in her 20s, with shoulder-length brunette hair, is wearing a black-and-white striped tank top. She's cleaning a glass.
Markham looks her way and the woman smiles. She sashays over and throws a cloth over her shoulder, "What can I get ya, stranger?"
Now, Mr. Reed must be careful. He can't just announce, "I'm here to look for hardened contract killers who frequent this establishment. Can you please tell me where they are and what they look like?"
No, subtlety is required. He sits on a stool and gets another look at the bartender.
The woman's hair is a bit messy, her lips are painted with bright red lipstick, and her nails are trimmed neatly. She's a rather good-looking lady, but she's also carrying an air of weariness and exhaustion around her.
The Baali remarks, "Busy night?"
The woman weakly nods, "Mm-hmm. Summin' like that." Her Southern accent is prominent and it's pretty much impossible to miss. She doesn't even have the need to fake it.
A guy in a nearby seat shuffles out of his place and goes behind a corner, his head hung low, his clothes are stained and his hair is messy. The stink of stale beer, sweat, and cheap cigars follows him.
He pulls out his flip phone and dials a number. He keeps his voice low, but he doesn't know that Markham is a vampire with enhanced senses.
Mr. Strickland answers, "Mr. Red. Status report?"
Mr. Red clears his throat and almost whispers, "Target spotted, sir. Permission to engage?"
"Negative. Reconnaissance only."
"Understood, sir. Standing down."
Markham stiffens up when hearing Mr. Red's gruff voice. A moment later, a man walks in with 2 women. The 2 women physically block the exits with their sturdy bodies while the man, an ex-military looking type (it's a very distinctive stance), approaches Mr. Reed and takes a seat next to him.
This is not good.
He signals for the bartender chick to serve him a scotch and she quickly obliges, pouring a pint for him.
The assassin initiates a conversation with the Baali, "Long night, huh?"
"Something like that."
"Hmm, you're not from around here, are you?"
"No, I'm not."
"So, where are you from?"
Markham keeps his cool and answers, "Seattle."
The killer chuckles and downs his scotch in 1 gulp. He smacks his lips and asks for another. The bartender comes over, fills the glass, and goes off.
He grins and remarks, "Fucking Seattle." He holds the glass to the light and stares at it for a moment. He continues, "Fucking Space Needle."
Markham raises an eyebrow, "That it?"
The man shakes his head and gives him a look that's half-friendly, half-intense, "Nah. So, what's a Seattle guy like you doing in the Midwest, huh?"
"Work."
"Mm-hmm. Work, huh? And what is it that you do?"
Markham lies, "I'm a travelling appliance salesman."
The hitter whistles and spins his glass around, the liquid sloshing about. He gives Markham a sideways look and asks, "Toasters, TVs, junk like that, hmm?"
Markham looks at him and bluntly states, "That about sums it up." He turns over and glances over at the other 2 killers. They both have their hands clasped in front of them.
The male hitter claps Markham on the back and says, "Don't sweat it, they're friends of mine. We all saw a ton of combat back in the day, and that part never leaves you...even after all the dust has settled."
The Baali simply nods along, "Right, sure."
He glances down at the man's hand, and sees a part of his tattoos. Markham faintly smiles and half-heartedly says, "Hmm, nice ink." His tone belies his insincerity.
The man rolls up his sleeve and shows more of it off. It's some kind of hardcore army-inspired imagery, the kind you'd usually see on these sorts of folk. Y'know, the usual. There's a couple of faded hate symbols and an odd skull or 2.
Very subtle, real subtle.
"Yeah, thanks," the hitter flashes a smile that's half-friendly, half-predatory.
Markham pushes his luck, "I am in need of...something and I hear that you're the ones who provide it." The other 2 killers glance their way and Markham notices it.
The mortal just laughs it off, "I don't know what you're talkin' about, buddy..." He pauses and takes a sip of his drink. He finishes his sentence with, "...appliance man."
Markham shakes his head, "I think you know exactly what I'm talking about."
"Maybe I do, maybe I don't."
The Baali must tread carefully lest he get discovered. He quickly mulls over a few approaches in his mind and comes to the conclusion that a mixture of subtlety and directness is best suited for the task at hand. He decides to go for a blend of both.
He leans forward and softly says, "You know exactly what I'm looking for. Plus, you don't seem like the kind of guy who's a big fan of small talk, so let's cut to the chase: I need someone taken care of."
The mortal assassin breathes in and out. For a moment, he twitches. He eventually says, "Well, I hear there's plenty of good retirement homes in the next county..."
Markham shakes his head, "Not that kinda 'taking care of'."
The hitter looks at 1 of the women near the exits. He flashes her a quick glance and she nods. She approaches the bartender chick and tells her something.
The bartender grumbles and leaves with the other woman. The door shuts behind them.
OK, this is going somewhere.
Mr. Red finishes his drink and goes to take a leak. After that, he mans the bar.
The hitter signals towards his colleague for another refill. Mr. Red makes a show of spinning a bottle of scotch and pouring it into 2 glasses. He sets them down and goes to another end of the bar.
Markham decides to get right into the meat of the issue, "I heard of you people. From a friend." He waits for an answer.
The hitter takes another gulp and exhales, "A friend, huh? Can you be any less vague than you are right now?"
"Names are for friends. We don't need that. I just need to know if you're capable of taking care of my problem."
"And what kind of problem is that, exactly, mister...?"
Markham gives his fake last name, "Beckett. Let's just leave it at that."
The hitter raises his glass and grins, "Nice to meet you, Mr. Beckett. I'll keep my name to myself. So, who is it that needs...taking care of, hmm?"
Without skipping a beat, Markham easily makes someone up, "My ex-wife...and kid."
The hitter sourly chuckles and downs his alcohol, "Oh, shit...well, uh, I'll be damned, buddy." He places his glass down and clicks his tongue.
Markham grimly continues, "They need to be 'disposed' of."
The hitter asks, "'Disposed of'?" He mimics Markham's intonation, but in a mocking manner.
Markham maintains his composure and nods, "Yes."
The mortal bites his lower lip and begins asking, "Does your ex own a firearm or have any military training?"
"No and no."
"Hmm, good. Makes our job easier. Usually. And how old's your kid?"
"3-years-old."
The assassin whistles and shakes his head, "Jesus. Yeah, it can be done, no problem-o."
Markham's brows knit together in disbelief, "What, that's it? Is it...that easy?"
The hitman nods his head, "Uh-huh. And what's her name, hmm, this ex-wife of yours?"
The Baali makes up a fake name, "Caroline."
"And the kid?"
"June."
The hitman faintly laughs and stares into his empty glass. He goes on, "That's good...so, um...OK. The thing is, there's a certain price for these types of things. I dunno if it's within the range of a travelling appliance salesman--"
"What's the rate?"
The hitman gives him a figure. He quickly follows up with, "This includes, you know...cleanup costs and shit, yeah? So, take that or leave that, bud."
Markham blandly states, "I can arrange the funds. Cash, check, or wire transfer?"
The killer shrugs his shoulders and declares, "Whatever's convenient for you, my friend. And where do the targets live now?"
Markham stops himself from answering and instead queries, "How do I know you're legit? How do I know you're not some kind of undercover fed? What guarantee do I have that you're not wearing some kind of wire, or that this isn't a setup?"
The hitter shakes his head, "Listen, it's...it's a risk you're gonna have to take with us, alright? It's just a risk you have to take, buddy. Sales guy like you must know a thing or 2 about risks, huh?"
Markham shakes his head, "I'm still not convinced." He pretends to leave, but the mortal grabs his arm and says, "Fine, fine. I'll...I'll--"
He unbuttons his trench coat and proves that he isn't wearing a wire. He even undoes the top buttons of his shirt and reveals more nasty, hateful tats on his chest, but no listening device or bug.
Markham grimaces at the Sonnenrad (Black Sun) tattooed over the hitter's chest. This isn't looking good.
The hitter smugly adds, "See? I'm not wearing any fancy bugs or listening toys on my body. We're as legit as they come, Mr. Beckett."
Mr. Reed then takes a chance and tries his hand, "Alright. How about you tell me a few details about your...company or organization or whatever?"
The hitter buttons his shirt and clicks his tongue in a mocking manner, "Nope. No way in hell. You're a civilian, you wouldn't understand or appreciate the way we operate, the way we function as a...unit of sorts."
Markham remarks, "Oh, I just wanna know that my money is being put to good use."
The hitman nonchalantly explains, "We do things the exact same way they do in the military. Standard operating procedures, stake outs, intelligence-gathering, tailing the targets, learning their routines and patterns, et cetera, et cetera. And, to make sure things don't get botched up, we like to take things slow, make sure we got the job right and do it the first time."
He signals for a refill and adds, "If we fuck it up, well...we don't. Not really a good look on the ol' rsum if you catch my meaning."
"Hmm. And you have no problem killing a woman and a child?"
The hitman grins and shakes his head casually, "None whatsoever. Hell, it wouldn't be my first time, heh. We're equal opportunity offenders, Beckett- niggers, spics, cripples, queers, beaners, retards, gooks, kids, helpless old folk...we'll whack just about anyone and everyone for the right price. Even little, tiny, 3-year-old girls..."
His eyes go blank and he loses focus. He mutters, "It's like a fuckin' Christmas present, and we're Santa Claus's elves, haha!"
The Baali keeps up his cavalier act, but he is absolutely disgusted on the inside. How can all of it be THIS easy?
The hitman laughs, "Aw, come on, bud. What happened, she cheat on you? That why you want 'em both whacked? The kid not yours? Caroline leave you for a black guy or something like that?"
Markham has a distant look on his face, "Something like that."
"Hmm, tough luck, buddy. Tough luck. I experienced something similar to that a while back. Anyway, you still haven't told me where she and the kid live."
"I think they moved to this city a week ago."
The hitter leans closer and scoffs, "You 'think'? I need to know if the targets are still around these parts or if they're not."
Mr. Red slides over and makes a show of polishing a few glasses, keeping his head down, but his ears open.
Markham's shoulders slump and he grumbles, "They might still be. She...has a restraining order out on me, so I haven't been able to...uh...get close. I had a guy keeping an eye on 'em, but he told me he lost them in traffic a few days back. So, now, I'm here, asking for help."
The mortal licks his lips, "Music to my ears. Nah, don't worry about finding those bitches. We got our own system for tracking down the little lost lambs and givin' them a 1-way ticket to the slaughterhouse. You got a timeframe for this or is this some sorta open-ended thing, hmm? Do I have some sorta deadline, like in a business sense?"
"How about...the end of the week?"
"Aww, come on, Beckett, give us a bit more time than that, eh? It takes, like, I dunno, at least 10-12 business days to make the hits."
Markham sharply exhales and feels very uneasy and taken aback by this ominous discussion, even if the "wife and kid" are all made up. But, then again, there are real people in the world who have been savagely murdered by the very man sitting next to him.
A grim and sobering thought.
Markham nods along and says, "OK. Yeah, yeah. Take however long you need."
The hitter laughs, "Oh, shit. You're a riot, buddy. And what about money? It's what I work for. The Frenchies around here call it a 'raison d'tre'. Fuckin' weird goddamn frogs. Anyways, how much we talking about here? In light of the new info, and the fact that we have to track 'em down, the price goes up."
Mr. Red turns the TV's volume up a bit. Markham shrugs and gives a ballpark estimate.
The hitter chuckles, "Nice try, pal. No. The real price, the actual figure, the one you'll end up paying at the end of the business day, is...this. What you just gave me is only an appetizer, just something to whet the palate and turn me on a bit."
He grabs a napkin and jots down an amount that reads: "$80,000"
Markham's eyebrows shoot up. Is this...the value of a human life to these scumbags?
The hitman snaps him out of it by saying, "Hey, buddy! Hey, are you still with me, hmm? Pay attention. Hey!"
"Uh...what? Um, yes."
The Baali is also trying not to make any kind of reaction that could make his true nature known to this killer, "Hmm, sorry. I need time to get the money."
The hitman nonchalantly declares, "Take all the time you need, my friend. Take all the time you need. You got a way for us to reach you when Caroline and June get their tickets punched?"
Markham glares at the hitman and says, "I'll find you."
He's about to leave, when the hitman lifts a finger and asks, "So, how did you hear about...us? About this place?"
Markham sighs and seats himself back down. He wiggles on the seat and finally manages to say, "Through word-of-mouth."
The hitman chuckles, "Is that right? And who's mouth would that be?"
The Baali refuses to answer, "Names are for friends, aren't they? And we're not friends. Let's keep things simple."
The mortal assassin tilts his head, "Fair enough. Well, it's been real fun chatting with ya, buddy. Now, I got other things to take care of. So, uh...you get out there and make money selling shit so you can make that payment, and we'll get things done on our end, alright?"
"Hm. Fair enough."
"Y'know, I'm actually on the clock right now." The hitter winks, pats the vampire on the back, and signals to Mr. Red to serve him another drink. He keeps his eyes on the barkeep.
The assassin gulps it down and leaves with the 2 women following in tow.
Mr. Red stares at the Baali and remarks, "You haven't had anything to drink. A teetotaler, huh?"
Markham is still reeling from the discussion, "S--Something like that."
"Well, there's a place a few blocks over that does milkshakes, haha!"
Markham heaves and gets off the stool, "I should get going."
Mr. Red shrugs indifferently, "Good luck. And don't worry, your wife and kid are already dead."
The Baali stifles a gasp at that ominous remark. He gulps deeply and briskly walks out the bar. Once he's outside, he breathes a sigh of relief, but the unease still remains.
It's as if the pit of his dead stomach is being gripped tightly by some unseen, unknown force. He clasps his head, mutters something, and starts pacing about.
"My god. It--it can't be this easy..."
Oh, but it is. This is America, after all. A violent and backward imperialist nation of endless warmongering that spans the globe and leaves nothing but misery, unending anguish, and suffering wherever it has operated (or will operate).
Is it, then, any surprise that the violence inflicted on peoples miles away is almost emulated (reflected, some might say) within the borders of this "great" nation itself?
The violence at home and the violence abroad are connected.
The hitter and his cohorts get in an inconspicuous sedan and drive off, going who knows where. Markham is still pacing around, still muttering.
"Maybe, just maybe...it's a trap? But why would it be? I know they're trailing me...but..."
His whirlwind of thoughts are interrupted by a stranger accosting him and asking for directions to the nearest hospital.
Markham shrugs and answers by saying he's not from around here. The stranger simply walks off.
Markham's lips quiver and he paces a tight circle. This...wasn't necessarily the America he grew up in. He doesn't remember it being this violent, this...individualistic and indifferent.
It was a different time, a different era. Things weren't exactly better back then, but THIS is a whole 'nother level of bad. Those halcyon days are never coming back because they never existed.
Markham tries his best to calm his nerves. He sits on a nearby bench and feels a lump in his throat. His Beast rouses and roars within him. Something else, something darker, also emerges and softly growls inside of him.
The Baali shuffles uncomfortably in his seat as his eyes dart around. He checks for any signs of danger or...the killers coming back to perhaps finish the job.
Markham pulls out his Motorola flip phone and calls Diego, "It's...it's done. Meet me near the corner. I don't wanna be seen."
The Gangrel responds, "Oh, hey! Sure, sure thing, homes. Just uh...gimme 30 minutes, alright? Some stuff has come up and I really need to take care of it."
"It's OK. I can wait."
The call ends and Markham mills around before deciding to go on a long walk. His mind is filled with a 1001 things at once.
The killers. Their faces and demeanors. The casual, unspoken way in which that guy mentioned taking lives as if it's the most mundane and routine thing in the world.
Markham's cold, dead heart begins to stir once more. His Beast rumbles. It's ready for whatever may come next.
Hell, he almost felt like lunging forward and swiping his claws at that asshole from earlier. He could've easily taken on how many hitters were in that dive bar, but that would constitute a severe breach of the Masquerade.
For now, he has to string the hitters along and let them believe that he's just a Federal Government employee who managed to survive 1 of their own attempts at "killing" him.
This isn't good. This is really not good.
As he paces and walks, he passes by the hospital the stranger was inquiring about. A few police cruisers and ambulances are parked in front.
A few people in the nearby vicinity are also peering towards that hospital with great interest. Curious, he looks and spots an EMT team bringing someone out.
A flustered EMT announces, "PREP THE OR! STAT! OUT OF MY WAY!"
Another EMT asks, "What's the situation?"
"White male in his early-40s. Cuts and abrasions to the head, neck, chest, and arms."
The other EMT grimaces and mutters, "Damn!"
A couple of other people nearby talk amongst themselves. Apparently, the poor guy met with an accident and his car was totaled.
After an hour, Markham meets Diego near the corner of a busy street. The Baali made sure that he wasn't followed or tailed by any assassins. 1 was actually following him, but through masterful use of the Obfuscate Discipline, Mr. Reed shook them off and disappeared into a crowd.
The Gangrel stops his vehicle, looks both ways, and pulls the door open, "Hey, d-man! Sorry for the delay. I had some things to deal with..." the Feral looks tired and worn out.
Markham ducks down and seats himself in the passenger's side, "Is everything alright?"
Diego nods, but there's pain and frustration on his face, "Uh, yeah, just some...problems, you know how that is." He lets out a long sigh, "Anyways, what happened, amigo? Are they...uh...whatever?"
The Baali nods, "Yes, the killers have been contacted. It was too...goddamn easy." He goes on to explain everything that occurred.
Even Diego is taken aback and he nearly loses control of the steering wheel a few times, "Mierda! What kind of sicko would wanna pop kids, man?! That's some fucked up shit!"
Mr. Reed has an expression on his face that's somewhere in between anger and confusion, "I don't know what to make of it. Either these are extremely dangerous people or--"
Diego shakes his head, "That is EXACTLY who they are, homes. Extremely dangerous people, and extremely dangerous people are only as dangerous as their leader...or leaders."
Markham sighs, "I was hoping to find out more about their leader or leaders, but I felt so...uneasy, so disgusted with them, with...this...situation. I just needed to get out of that damn bar as soon as I could."
"Understandable. If it was me in those size-12 shoes of yours, I would've gone nuts and ripped that cabrn to shreds. N--Not that I enjoy doing things like that, but there's a limit, you know? There's a limit to how much crap we can put up with!"
The Feral drives down an unfamiliar path, a more secluded area where he can better think and clear his head after a hard and arduous night. The night is still young, after all.
Diego says he has to fill up some gas as it's running low, "You don't uh...mind a little detour, homes?"
"No problem. We could use the fresh air."
"Hmph, we sure could. I--I can't even believe what you just told me, man. Killing kids for money is..."
Markham thinks out loud, "All kinds of fucked up and all kinds of wrong." He absentmindedly nods.
He looks out the window and spots a gas station, a fairly empty one with not much in the way of lighting, except for a few flickering outside. The nearby shop is dimly-lit, so Diego manages to park the vehicle and get out to fill some fuel.
After that, Diego goes in through the front door and pays the shopkeeper. He buys a few bags of chips and goes on his way.
What a vampire needs crisps for is anyone's guess.
Markham, who has a few moments to himself, looks out the window and tries to sort through his thoughts. These, in turn, are interrupted by a van zooming past, and the Baali catches sight of a black blur whooshing past.
Diego climbs back and slams the door with more force than usual. Ever since picking Markham up, he's had a sour and grim look on his face. He seems lost in thought, like he's thinking about something intensely. Perhaps something happened?
The Gangrel is a bit distracted and Markham asks him, "You OK, Diego?"
The Feral groans and sighs heavily, "Huh? Oh, yeah, yeah, I'm fine, man." His tone belies his lack of fineness.
Markham looks at the bag of chips and Diego answers, "Ah? This? It's...not for me, of course. It's for some kids I know..."
The Baali perches an eyebrow. Diego clicks his tongue and starts up his vehicle, "After I dropped you, I...you know what, never mind."
Markham gives the Outlander a sympathetic look and offers, "If something's on your mind, Diego, then you can talk to me."
He pauses and adds, "Besides, I already owe you for taking me in despite all of...it."
Diego heaves and grips the steering wheel with so much force, it might actually snap in half. He lets out a deep breath and says, "Y'know, I'm just so tired of this shit, man. You...ever feel like that, too?"
Markham nods along and remarks, "Sometimes." He waits for Diego to continue. He can sense that the Feral needs to let off some steam.
Diego sniffs loudly and begins, "So, there was this vato who I had to drop off at the court tonight for his uh...immigration hearing. Nice guy. He's from El Salvador, like me. He's got familia back there- a wife and 2 little kids. He works hard to provide for 'em, y'know."
"Mm-hmm."
"So, yeah. I dropped him off and waited around for a bit. After he came out, I saw that he was real shaken up, he looked real pissed off and sad, man." He pauses and adds, "He um...told me that they grilled him nonstop and asked if he's ever had any gang affiliations or shit like that."
The Outlander scoffs, "Tch. Of course those pendejos had to pull that fucking card. They told him to come back at a certain date, but he's got other commitments on that date. He asked if it was possible to reschedule, but they shooed him off like he was a fucking garbage fly or some shit."
He shakes his head in disappointment and says, "It's so...fucking unfair, man. I--I don't know what else to say. It's just...just so goddamn frustrating! Grr!"
Markham pats the Outlander on the shoulder, "I'm sorry to hear that, Diego."
The Gangrel shakes his head in disdain and remarks, "It's like this goddamn country only wants our labor, not US. Not as people, not as...you know, human beings. It's just...it's just..."
His voice cracks and he takes a moment to compose himself. He sniffles and exhales deeply, "Sorry, man. I just...I'm just so tired of it all."
Mr. Reed nods and looks out the window, "Yeah, I know the feeling all too well."
"I hate it here sometimes, Markham."
"I can see why."
Diego starts the vehicle up and drives off into the dark road. He opts for a more scenic route to ease his tension. The windows are all the way down and the night breeze hits the 2 Kindred and blows through their hair.
It's nice. It's cool. It's soothing.
Elsewhere...
The mortal assassin from the dive bar stops at a traffic light and dials his boss, Mr. Strickland. He waits patiently till he picks up.
"Status report, Mr. White." There's some cats meowing in the background of wherever Mr. Strickland is speaking from.
The hitter, Mr. White (a color-coded name), answers, "I spoke to the target. Sir, he asked if...we could take out 2 people for him."
Mr. Strickland faintly chuckles, "An interesting turn of events. Tell me everything, Mr. White."
Mr. White obediently recalls and recounts the conversation he had with Mr. Reed earlier on. He makes sure to include the details about the wife and kid. He even tells him about the price.
Mr. Strickland clicks his tongue and remarks, "Hmm, how intriguing. It appears that this 'Mister Beckett' is far more interesting than we initially thought, hmm?"
"Yes, sir. Do you think he's onto us?"
"What do you think, Mr. White?"
"I'm not paid to think, sir. I'm paid to follow orders."
"Exactly. Maybe he IS onto us, or maybe he does have business for us. It is, indeed, possible for 2 things to be true at once."
"Yes, sir."
A blue-eyed Ragdoll cat jumps onto Mr. Strickland's lap and curls up. He scratches behind its ears and the feline purrs.
He continues, "Would it be prudent to proceed with our original plan or should we wait and see what unfolds?"
The hitman hesitates and stumbles over his words, "I..."
Mr. Strickland chuckles, "We will wait and see how this unfolds. If this is a business opportunity, passing it up would be a travesty."
"Yes, sir. It sounds easy enough- a woman and her kid. I want point on this op, sir."
"That, Mr. White, is not for you to decide. I will determine where and how and when my soldiers are deployed. Speaking of, your target is currently in the hospital- he met with quite a nasty accident and his car got totaled."
Mr. White squares his jaw, "They just have to go and make my job harder, hmm? I'm on it, sir. Also, there was...something else."
"Speak. I'm listening."
The hitter gulps and looks around before answering, "This Beckett guy or whatever his name really is...he felt...off."
"Everyone feels 'off' to you, Mr. White. You're going to have to be a little more specific than that, soldier."
The assassin sighs, "He had the eyes of--of a dead man; I should know, sir. And he felt cold to the touch, like he sleeps in a morgue or right under a fucking A/C unit. It's just...unsettling. I felt so...different around him, sir."
"I see. Hmm, well, that's interesting. I'll make some calls and have our people do another check on his records."
"Thank you, sir."
"Oh, and Mr. White?"
"Sir?"
"Happy birthday. Your target is in the hospital. Goodnight and god speed."
(It is actually Mr. White's birthday; Mr. Strickland knows everything about those who are under his leadership.)
"Thank you, sir." Mr. White hangs up and drives towards the location of his next hit. He carries it out with ruthless efficiency and expects to see the moolah in his account by sunrise.
Back to the 2 bloodsuckers...
There's some traffic near the freeway, so Diego pulls into the side of the road. The Feral puts on whatever's on the radio and lets it play as he stares out into the dark road ahead.
Markham asks, "Where are we going now?"
The Outlander shrugs and responds, "Anywhere else YOU gotta go, homes?"
"No, not really. I'm still...reeling from...that."
"Hmm, yeah. Even if your 'wife' and 'kid' were totally made up, it's still kinda hard to stomach all this shit."
Mr. Reed sighs and shakes his head. He mumbles under his breath, "This is not the America I remember growing up in..."
Diego hears that and scoffs, "Nah, nah. This is always what it's been, hermano. It's just gotten worse in this new century and all."
"Hmm, maybe. I'd still like to believe that the system works and holds such people accountable, but--"
The same van from the gas station zooms past Diego's pickup truck. Its black and has tinted windows. It nearly scratches Diego's pickup. The Gangrel curses and slams his fist on the dashboard.
He honks loudly, but the van keeps driving off at full speed.
"Puta Madre!" The Feral's eyes glow and he bares his fangs. The veins almost pop out on his neck and arms. Even his claws pop out.
This particular stretch of road is quite gravelly and not very well-lit. Diego slams his foot on the accelerator and chases after this black van. Markham holds on for dear Unlife as the Feral goes full-on Speed Racer on this thing.
The driver of the van doesn't seem to care about how fast they're going or how recklessly they're driving.
Diego's pickup truck manages to keep up with the van, but there's still some distance between the 2 vehicles. The Outlander repeatedly honks and honks in a bid to get the driver's attention.
The van speeds up and takes a sharp left turn. The Gangrel growls and follows after it. He's getting tired of these shenanigans.
Diego shouts, "They almost scratched my ride!"
Markham's face contorts into a look of concern. His Beast roars within him. He simply side-eyes Diego with uncertainty and says absolutely nothing.
Loud music emanates from the van. It's some kind of rock 'n' roll being blasted from the speakers. It's hard to tell if it's even good rock 'n' roll or not, though.
Diego growls and keeps up with the van. It makes a right turn and goes down an unfamiliar road. A few houses can be spotted in the distance, but it's mostly a bunch of trees, dirt, and gravel.
"Diego...you know you don't have to--"
Diego growls at Markham and refocuses his attention back on the road. Markham notices that Diego's face has slightly...changed. No words seem to be coming out his mouth, and all he can do is grunt and growl.
That would, in all likelihood, be the Gangrel Clan Compulsion in action- their Feral Impulses. The vampire regresses to a point where speech is hard, clothes are uncomfortable, and arguments are best settled with teeth and claws.
Plus, there was that whole thing with Diego's buddy earlier, so that likely contributed to setting the Outlander off. Markham simply holds on to the window frame and makes sure his seatbelt is tight.
He whispers to himself, "I hope the airbags on this thing work."
Diego hisses and snarls at him, as if saying, "THEY DO!" he puts his foot down on the accelerator and goes faster and faster.
The van takes another sharp turn and enters a road that's a lot darker and more secluded. There are no lights, no street signs, nothing. Just an old and long-abandoned factory.
The van keeps driving and Diego's pickup truck keeps chasing.
"GRRRR! HFFFFRGFLHGHFGHERRRR!"
The van shows no sign of slowing down. Markham gulps deeply and contemplates jumping out the car, but then again, that would be unwise at this speed. He decides to wait it out.
The van speeds up, but so does Diego's pickup truck. It makes a few more turns and eventually reaches the abandoned factory. The van pulls up and parks outside, next to a rusty fence and a large, metal gate.
Diego forces his door open and readies his claws. Markham's eyes widen and he steps out and tries to hold Diego back. The Feral snarls and shoves Mr. Reed away.
"N--No, Diego! STOP!"
The Outlander howls and prepares to charge at the van, but someone steps out, a guitar case slung over their shoulder. They look very familiar...
Diego hesitates and stands his ground, snarling and heaving. Markham stops in his tracks, as well, his eyes wide in shock and surprise.
"Hey, rock star," a familiar and hoarse voice of a man greets the 2 vamps.
Markham recognizes him as...as none other than Burt, his Sire.
The Baali has long, straight hair that goes down to his back. He has a wild look in his amber eyes. He's dressed in a buttoned-down short-sleeved shirt that's tight around his arms and dark skinny jeans with scuffed black sneakers.
His face is quite pale and very gaunt and he looks to be in his indeterminate 40s, possibly late-30s. He's got a necklace with a pentagram, and a few other trinkets hanging from his neck. He also sports a pointy goatee.
He's got that whole washed-up rock star vibe about him.
Markham gasps and is at a complete and total loss for words. Diego's more bestial side subsides and he returns to normal.
Burt smirks and looks at his Childe from head to toe, "Fancy seeing you all the way out here, kiddo."
Diego looks at Markham, then at Burt, and then back at Markham. He points to Burt, "You know this buster?"
Burt chuckles and takes a few steps forward. He leans against the side of his van and says, "Oh, I think it's a lot more than that...I Sired him. Saved him."
Diego raises his eyebrows and turns to Markham for an explanation. The Baali Neonate is still trying to process this unexpected reunion with his Sire.
Burt grins and extends his arms, "Don't be shy now. C'mere and gimme a hug!"
Markham takes a step back and holds his hands out, "No, no, it--it can't be."
Burt presses his chapped lips into a thin line and simply puts his hand on his Childe's shoulder, "Hey, hey. Easy, rock star. Easy there."
"I'm Diego, by the way. Clan Gangrel. You almost scratched my ride, man!"
Burt turns over to Diego, "Ah, sorry about that. The Clan of the Beast, huh? Wow, Markham, you're running with some real cool folk these nights, huh?"
"..."
Burt nods and tells the Gangrel, "I'll pay you whatever for the scratches or...other damages. Sorry 'bout that, dude."
Diego folds his arms and says, "It's cool, man. I...we...can talk about it later. What brings you all the way out here?"
Burt shrugs and chuckles, "Oh, y'know, just a little road trip. I'm still looking for that thing. Rock star here knows what it is. I've also been playing at a few crappy bars for a few crappy dollars- this old rock star has still got some fight left in him."
Markham remains stunned and speechless.
Diego looks at him with concern and asks, "Everything alright there, homes? You look like you've seen a ghost."
Burt grins, "Heh heh, yeah. How ya doin', kiddo?"
Markham takes a deep breath and asks, "How--How did you find me?"
Burt shakes his head and stretches his arms out, "Find you? Markham, I didn't even know you were here! I thought you were still in Greenridge! I know you said you were applying for the SEC, but you never told me where that was or if you even landed the job."
Markham gulps, his head lowered in shame, "Sorry."
Burt frowns, "Aww, come on. Don't beat yourself up, kiddo. So, is there where you live now??"
"No, I'm not. I live in Seattle and I work as an Enforcement Investigator for the Securities and Exchange Commission."
Burt whistles and grins, "Not bad, not bad at all. Yeah, that whole fraud investigating thing you used to do was bound to get you caught if you kept on going with it. I know you, Markham. You don't do vacations, so, lemme guess...you're here for work, not the other thing, right?"
He's sharp.
Markham nods, "Yeah."
Diego interjects, "I'll give you 2 some space. I'll be waiting whenever you're done, alright, d-man?"
Burt chuckles, "D-man? The fuck is that?"
Markham dryly answers, "Devil man, because...y'know."
Burt dismissively waves his hand, "Ah, that's all rumors. Most Baali I know don't literally worship the actual devil. It's just a buncha crap that's been spread around, but most of the ones I know are fairly chill. They don't go around doing sick shit or whatever's being spread about us this week."
He gives his Childe a meaningful look, "Some of us are good people, too. But, then again, some of us are also total assholes."
Diego walks off and mumbles to himself, "Hmm, no arguing with him there." He gets back in his pickup truck and patiently waits for the 2 to catch up or whatever.
Markham avoids eye contact with his Sire, "The Baali here are monsters..."
Burt shrugs, "I see. Well, I haven't met them, let alone been here long enough to make any kind of judgment on them."
Markham is still trying to process this whole thing and he's not sure how to respond or react, "...What are you doing here, Burt?"
Burt gives his Childe a sidelong glance, "You really don't remember, do you?"
"I...I tried to forget it all. I did forget a lot of it. It's all hazy and jumbled. Sometimes, I get flashbacks and sudden memories, but...they don't make much sense to me. Nothing does."
"Well, I'm sorry to hear that, kiddo."
"What do you want, Burt?"
Burt futzes around with the guitar case slung over his shoulder, "What anybody else wants- to survive."
"That doesn't answer my question."
Burt sighs, "You're still as cold and withdrawn as ever, huh?" He chuckles, "Alright, rock star. I was passing by here and I felt like playing at the bars and clubs around here for a few bucks."
"That's not all."
"You're absolutely right. That's not all. I was tracking something, the y'know. A couple of guys might have it, so I'm on their tail, but I lost 'em a while back. I was running low on money and--"
The Baali pats his guitar case with some affection, "--I thought I'd go and make some gas money. You know I had to sell my old car and get this van, right?"
Markham nods along and is about to ask another question when Burt interrupts, "I'm sure you're sorry to hear that. So, how have you been?"
Markham shuffles on the spot, "Good, I guess. I've been...doing good."
"Embrace anyone yet?"
"No."
"Haha. You'll get there...eventually. Just make sure that whoever you Embrace isn't a total monster, or an asshole, heh. I'd hate for my Childe's Childe to be a piece of shit."
He pauses and looks at Diego's pickup truck, "What about that dude? Is he...y'know, is he a part of a Coterie or whatever they call it around these parts?"
"He is. It's a long story, Burt."
Burt nods and smiles, "Hmm, it always is, Markham. It always is. How long we talking here?"
Before Markham can answer, Burt calls out to Diego, "HEY, BUDDY! You got any places to be??"
Diego peeks out and hollers back, "NAH! Take your time, hermano!"
Burt faintly chuckles, "Wow, he seems nice. C'mon, let's go in the van and you can tell me all about it. You got that look on your face, rock star. You need...what, advice, help, whatever?"
"..."
Burt puts his arm around his Childe and leads him towards the van, "C'mon. Don't be shy. I know you've got a lot of questions and I'm happy to answer 'em all. But, you gotta talk to me. I'm no mind reader. I knew a few Malkavians who could do that shit, but I never felt right around them, haha."
"Fine."
Burt opens the backdoors of the van and sits on the edge. He pulls out his guitar, a dusty old acoustic thing, and begins strumming it. He asks Markham to join him.
Markham sits down next to his Sire and looks at him expectantly. He can't believe this is happening. What's Burt doing here in F-City? Why now?
Burt clears his throat and continues to strum on his guitar, a tranquil and almost soothing melody.
He starts off, "So, what's on that mind of yours, huh?"
"A lot."
(THAT is quite an understatement!)
Burt strums his guitar and sways from side to side, humming some tune that Markham recognizes parts of.
"I have a...few questions."
"Well, shoot. I got most of the night."
"What happened?"
Burt shrugs nonchalantly, "Now, that's a loaded question right there, kiddo. I'm 'fraid you're gonna have to be a bit more specific on that one...heh."
Markham gulps and reframes his query, "What happened...before...you Re-Embraced me?"
Burt stops playing and his eyes widen in shock, "Whoof! You don't mess around, do ya, rock star? Do you, do you really remember nothing from that night?"
Markham shakes his head, "Only flashes and fragments. Nothing...nothing that makes any sense. It's all jumbled up. I--I was hoping you could shed some light on it."
Burt sighs, "Well, are you ready to go through all of it again? Maybe there's a reason--"
Markham frowns, "It's...I have to know. I...wanna remember. I can't keep going on like this!" He sounds determined to remember this part of his past.
Burt puts his guitar aside and places his hand around his Childe's shoulder, "Alright, kiddo. You absolutely sure about this?"
"Yes."
Burt chuckles, "That's what you always said. Hm, where to begin..."
He thinks for a moment and says, "You were a Sabbat Shovelhead...Clan Lasombra."
A "Shovelhead" is a disposable Kindred who has undergone a particular form of Mass Embrace employed by the Sabbat for their War Parties. Back in the 1970s, almost as a prelude to the Satanic Panic, the Sabbat were conducting their own crusades against any and all so-called "Infernalists".
Burt was 1 of the Sabbat's targets.
Markham was on his way back from laying flowers at his sister's grave when an unmarked van pulled up out of nowhere, its tires screeching against the asphalt. 2 masked figures grabbed him and many others nearby and took them to an abandoned warehouse where dozens of other people were also taken.
They were all bound and gagged and their eyes were covered with blindfolds. Screams and cries of panic filled the tight space.
1 after the other, they were hastily and violently Embraced. Many didn't survive this process due to the shock alone. Before the remaining could awaken and Frenzy, a man in a thick, green ski mask went around and started whacking them over the head with a shovel.
The next thing Markham remembers is being shoved out of the same van, the area around nothing but dry and empty grassland.
There's a makeshift stage where Burt shreds and riffs on his guitar as many Frenzied vampires, barely Fledglings, rush towards him, screeching and howling.
Markham's newly-awakened Beast roars within him. He lurches forward and attacks the nearest vampire he can find. His claws and fangs extend and he mauls the other Frenzying vampire.
The young vampire is in so much pain, he doesn't even fight back. He simply lays there and weeps, tears of blood flowing down what remains of his face.
Markham, nearly losing it follows the other Shovelheads towards Burt. The rock star keeps on wildly playing and strumming his guitar as if it was a normal concert, the approaching vampires being his audience.
Markham catches himself and witnesses a few others tumbling into a speaker system and getting electrocuted violently, smoke and sparks coming off of them.
Burt laughs maniacally, "Hahaha! YEEAAAH! C'mon! C'mon!"
He grabs his microphone stand and starts swinging it about, whacking any Kindred that gets too close to him. Markham stands there, blood dripping down his chin. He stares in awe. He twitches and lunges towards a nearby Shovelhead.
He pins her to the ground slashes at her face with his claws. She screams and spits blood. He sinks his teeth into her neck and rips it open. He drinks deeply from her as she weakly struggles, her arms flailing about.
He feels the Vitae draining out of her and into him. A sick feeling builds up inside of him.
Burt keeps playing like the absolutely wild (and cool) Demon that he is. His hair flies about as he goes back and forth across the stage. He even jumps off of the stage and into the crowd.
Some of the barely-Fledglings are tearing each other apart while others are trying to get to him. He whacks a few with his guitar or casually dodges them and grins as they aimlessly run off into the distance, never to be seen again.
In the middle of the bloodshed, Burt places his foot on someone's body and maniacally riffs and shreds away on his guitar. The crowd swarms him, their voices animalistic and filled with nothing but base instincts and pure savagery.
A few seconds later, Burt kicks a few off, smacks some others with his guitar, or dodges and hurls them straight into the shoddy electrical set up. He looks up at the dark sky and roars wildly, his amber eyes turning red. His fangs extend and his claws grow and his hair becomes a mess.
Burt utilizes his own dark and twisted version of the Presence Discipline and draws the Frenzying Wights towards him like a siren's beacon. Another van spews forth another wave of Frenzying and newly-Embraced Kindred.
They either swarm Burt or run off into the nearby woods. Burt continues to play and play, a wicked smile on his face. He shreds his banged-up musical instrument and howls a few screeches, rivaling the gurgled screeches of the horde approaching him.
Markham, holding on to something resembling sanity, looks around the carnage. He hobbles towards Burt and swipes his claws, but the latter deftly dodges to the side, chuckles, and continues to play.
Burt unleashes an earth-shattering scream, causing all of his attackers (Markham included) to go absolutely nuts. They stumble about, disoriented and confused. Markham collapses and tries to stand back up. His vision is blurry and his balance is off. He stumbles and trips, falling face-first onto the ground.
"AAAAAH! RAAAAAAAAAAAAARGH!" Burt engages in some vicious headbanging and keeps on playing his defective guitar, stained with blood and brain matter.
A few minutes pass and the Shovelheads scatter. They were either destroyed by the other Frenzying vampires or cooked by the sun. The Sabbat didn't want any loose ends, so they made a quick retreat.
A few of the surviving Shovelheads ran off, never to be seen again.
As far as Sabbat War Parties go, this was an abject failure- throwing bodies at the problem would only work if the problem wasn't a wild and untamed bisexual rock star who played with the powers of darkness at his fingertips.
Markham is left there, lying down on the ground. Blood and other fluids are splattered all over him. He's shaking, spasming, and twitching, his mind still struggling to make sense of all this.
Burt crouches down and runs his cold hand across the man's arm. Amidst all the guts, gore, and carnage, a look of sympathy washes over the rock star's face.
He shakes his head, "Who--who are you?"
Markham gurgles and groans. Burt's hand goes down and grabs the man's hand. He squeezes it and gives him a meaningful look, "I'm sorry you got dragged into this. It's not your fight, hmm?"
Burt grunts and pulls the man up. He feels some dark and infernal voice goading him to Re-Embrace this man rather than just leave him there. His Blood sings and he feels like his very soul is burning.
Burt pulls Markham closer and bites into his neck, thus initiating the Re-Embrace, and more importantly, saving Markham Reed and giving him another chance at things.
Were it not for the ability of the Baali to Re-Embrace Kindred, Markham Reed would've been a goner back in the 1970s.
Burt exhales sharply and concludes by saying, "And there you have it, kiddo. Your uhm...origin story, I guess." There's a slight look of uneasiness on Burt's face, but it's quite concealed. It's as if he's recalling a bad memory, which it absolutely is.
Markham stares at the ground in deep silence. He doesn't speak for a few moments, the words of his Sire unveiling memories that were long shrouded and buried in the deep recesses of his mind. He feels his Beast stirring within him.
But, there's also something else stirring and clawing within him.
Burt takes a long sip from a flask. He offers it to his Childe. Markham refuses. Burt takes a deep breath and exhales.
Markham eventually speaks up, "So...that's how it went down, huh?"
"Mm-hmm."
"Are you sure?"
"I have literally no reason or incentive to lie to my own Childe. You think I wanted to hurt all those people those Lasombra assholes sent after me? You think I LIKE doing shit like that?? I...I had no other choice, I was simply defending myself."
Markham sighs deeply, eyes still transfixed on the ground, "We both did things that we're not exactly proud of on that night. But, why me? Were--weren't there others you could've pulled from the brink?"
Burt nods, "Yeah, yeah, there might've a few others now that I think of it, but I dunno, Markham. They weren't you. Something inside told me to choose you, to pull YOU from the brink."
"What was it? What did you see in me?"
"I saw a man who was in the wrong place at the wrong time, forcefully conscripted into some kind of a goddamn score-settling game masquerading as a fucking holy war."
Markham's eyes narrow and he glares at Burt, his voice trembling, the words failing to exit his mouth.
"Something wrong, Markham?" Burt looks at him with a concerned look. He looks...genuine. He looks hurt. He looks sad. His eyes are full of sorrow and regret.
Markham shakes his head, "No. I guess I owe you. I just...can't believe I forgot, y'know? I remember everything else- our chats, your lessons, and the rest of it, or most of it, anyway. But that night is...it was a total blank." He pauses and adds, "Sorry."
Burt smiles weakly, "It's OK, rock star. It happens. We've all had some pretty messed-up nights." He leans back against the van, a distant look on his face.
The Baali puts his hands together and asks, "So, is there anything else that I can help you with???"
Markham gulps deeply and weakly nods, "I'm working a case..."
With that, Mr. Reed brings his Sire up-to-date on the events of the past few nights and how it relates to his investigation into LDJ and Paul Cho.
By the end of it all, Burt's eyebrows shoot up sky-high. He whistles and says, "Wow, wow, wow. That's uh...wow. I uh...whoa. Assassins, rich kids, prostitutes, whoa, you've got yourself mixed up in some crazy stuff, and here I thought my Unlife was a rocky road, heh."
"Yeah." Markham is still processing everything that's happened. This night has ALREADY been quite a lot for the Neonate.
Burt nods along, "Hmm. I've heard of this stuff going around, but not in the way you describe. Murder-for-hire is a sick and twisted business, but I never thought they'd stoop so low and start charging to bump kids off. Jesus."
"Hm. This...this isn't the America I remember, Burt."
Burt chuckles and faintly scoffs at that, "Well, it IS the America we're in right now. Goddamn, I'm sure of 1 thing- this isn't the America, the Union, I fought for. Even I struggle to recognize it sometimes, y'know?"
(Burt was a Union soldier during the American Civil War, so he knows what he's talking about).
He does a wide, sweeping gesture and adds, "Lincoln's doing fucking cartwheels in his grave, that much is for sure."
Markham chuckles weakly and nods along. He feels tired. So, so tired. He's had a lot on his mind lately and this little reunion may have helped put certain things at ease, but other (more pressing) queries and matters linger.
"So, uh, yeah, that's the gist of it, Burt," Markham's voice is weak and tired. He feels exhausted and drained, physically and emotionally.
Burt pats his Childe on the back and says, "Hey, hey. Don't worry, kiddo. I'll help you out however I can. This whole thing sounds like a real shit-show, huh? Well, at least that Gangrel and his girlfriend give you a place to stay, good on them."
"Yeah, they're good people, Burt."
"I'm sure they are. Question is: are YOU good to them in return?"
"I try not to impose or take advantage. Diego does insist on dropping me off, sticking around, and picking me up. I guess that's just his way of helping, y'know."
"Good, good. Y'know, sometimes I can no longer recognize this country. Sometimes, it...it almost feels like we fought for nothing, y'know. Bled and died just--"
Markham tries to reassure his Sire, "But it wasn't all for nothing. Slavery in this country came to an end because of what you and the others did."
Burt scoffs and waves dismissively, "Yeah, well, that's true. But, the way things are going now...it feels like our struggle was in vain and for naught. We should've wiped every last one of those slave-owning assholes of the map- scorched fucking earth."
"..."
The rock star heaves a sigh, "Ah, we didn't know that the Confederates were gonna rebrand and take over, heh. The Republicans would go on to become antithetical to Lincoln and the Democrats would just sit, thumbs far up their asses, and help fascism come in without so much as a fight. Grrr!"
"Yeah. I...I'm not sure it's that bad, Burt." Markham is still trying to process all this. He's had a lot on his mind and he's been distracted by the case and all.
Burt presses his lips into a thin line and regards his Childe for a moment, "Yeah, well, you haven't been paying attention, then. Also, lemme remind you: don't let anyone ever give you that crap talk about 'states' rights' or 'lost-cause'."
He leans closer and emphatically states, "I was there, kiddo. Alongside my brothers and sisters, I lived through and fought against that fucking inhuman and barbaric institution of slavery and everything it stands for. I will NOT let those sacrifices be in vain."
The determination and passion is apparent in his tone.
"Yeah," Markham nods along in agreement.
Markham then says, "You uh...got fans in this city, Burt. Fans of your old music."
Burt looks at his Childe incredulously, "What?! Really?! From what I've seen, this city doesn't seem to give 2 flying shits about music- not a good sign in my books. But, I'd love to meet these fans..."
"He was selling bootleg copies of 1 of your albums."
Burt chuckles loudly, "Oh, hahahahahaha! I really don't mind that! As long as someone's ears are being touched by my music, then I'm happy."
"You uh...wanna meet him?"
Burt shrugs a shoulder, "Sure, why not?"
Before Markham can tell his Sire about this super-fan, he asks an important question, "Did you present yourself to the Prince yet?"
This query elicits a wild and raucous laugh from the Baali rock star, "Hahahahahaha! Nah, nah. I'm not planning on doing that shit anytime soon; I don't play by the Camarilla's medieval niceties- I'm a punk rocker, a rebel. You know that, don't you?"
"Hmm. Yeah. Did you um...join that organization, or whatever, you were always talking about back then? The um--"
Burt interjects, "The Inconnu? You remembered that, huh? Nah, I'm still looking for my 'in'. That's why I'm out on the road. I'm after these guys that have a...dagger box in their possession."
"A dagger box?"
"Yeah, it's uh...a long story. Let's just say...that it'll help make certain unpleasant things easier. I need it and the guys who have it."
"Who are they??"
"Well, I'd like to keep that private, rock star. Besides, you already got A LOT on that mind of yours. So uh...I hope you found some closure with what I've told you."
Markham nods and thanks his Sire, "Yeah, I feel relieved, if only a little. It's still a lot to take in and process after all these years, but, yeah. T--Thanks."
"You're welcome, kiddo. You're welcome. If there's anything else I can do for you, hm?"
Markham looks at his Sire expectantly, "Can you gimme any more advice?"
Burt winces and clicks his tongue, "I...I'm really no good with financial stuff. That was always your domain and area of expertise. I remember 1 time, I had a groupie do my taxes, haha! Ah, anyway, best I could tell ya is this: survive."
Markham's eyebrows shoot up and he turns his head aside, "Hm. Yeah. So, before I became Baali, I was Lasombra, huh? That would...explain my distaste for that particular Clan. Uh, Burt?"
"Hmm?"
"Is...is there still any Lasombra left in me?"
Burt confidently answers, "Nope, none at all. I'm sure of that. Why, do you...feel any different? Do you feel meaner or colder or do you look all funny and weird in front of mirrors??"
"I don't know. No, no, and definitely not."
Burt gently claps his Childe's back, "Then, it's safe to conclude that there's no Lasombra in ya, heh. Don't worry. Remember the Riddle?"
Markham repeats it from memory, "A Beast I am, lest a Beast I become."
Burt remarks, "It's paradoxical, sure, but it's a good way to stay human, I guess. The Beast is the dark and animalistic side of us, the primal urges and instincts that guide us in our eternal Hunger for blood."
He gesticulates and adds, "We Kindred are born of and from darkness, so there will always be a connection and kinship there. But, we can't let the Beast define us or control us. Otherwise, we're just wild animals with fancy powers...like the Garou."
"Hm. That sounds right. Listen, I should really get going."
Burt smiles a tight smile and nods, "Mm-hmm. I'm gonna hang back here and play for an audience of crickets and flies and dry ground. It's like some people here don't even know what...culture is."
Markham gets up and queries, "What do you mean by that?"
Burt clicks his tongue, "I was playing in this really fancy-looking bar with purple lights and booze more expensive than my ride. I decided to give 'em some Pink Floyd, but literally nobody there knew or cared about any of it. They kept asking for something else entirely, ugh. It was a total nightmare."
"I'm sorry to hear that."
"Ah, it's alright. You can't please everyone all of the time. It's their loss, not mine. I'm still gonna go out there and play whatever for whoever's even bothered to care."
Markham nods and walks towards Diego's pickup truck. Diego looks at the Baali climbing in and asks, "All done with the reunion, homes?"
Markham puts on his seatbelt, "Mm-hmm."
The Gangrel nods over to Burt and points out, "Hey, you know, your Sire's got that Iggy Pop look about him, heh."
Markham turns over to his Sire and looks him over, eyes squinted, "Yeah, yeah. I...guess he does."
Before Diego can start his vehicle up, Burt approaches and leans on the window frame on the passenger side.
He grins and asks, "Say, we should probably keep in touch, right? I don't plan on staying in this place for too long, but..."
Markham looks at the Feral and asks, "Is it OK if I give him your address?"
Diego looks unsure for a moment, but he quickly shrugs it off, "Yeah, yeah. He's not with the Baali from around here. Marisol will understand."
Burt's expression softens, "I'm sorry about your pets, man. Markham here told me all about what the Baali in this city are up to."
All it took was a few short sentences for Markham to essentially bring his Sire up-to-speed on what goes on with most of the Kindred of Flimont City.
Diego weakly smiles and responds, "It's not your fault, hermano. You don't have to apologize for it."
Burt pointedly tells the Feral, "You're a good man, Diego. It's guys like you that gimme hope for a better future down the line, y'know, that our sacrifices, that the blood we shed wasn't in vain and for nothing. Immigrants made this nation what it is. Without 'em, we'd have collapsed into oblivion decades ago."
The Outlander smiles at that, but that quickly fades away, "True, true. But, compliments from Gringos like you, no matter how well-meaning, don't exactly pay the bills, huh?"
Burt sighs, "Yeah, yeah. I getcha. Absolutely. Hey, Markham, take good care of this Gangrel and be nice, alright? He's giving you a place to rest, don't endanger him or get him caught up in anything crazy, alright?"
Markham nods and says, "Alright, Burt. Thanks...for everything. You've um...put my mind at ease."
Burt smirks, "You're my Childe, I'm your Sire. Even if you're a Neonate, it's still my duty and responsibility to make sure that you survive the nights. And remember: survival's the game we all play."
Markham sighs deeply and bitterly replies, "Until we can no longer afford to do so." That's exactly what Roxanne told him when they last spoke and the topic of survival was brought up.
The Baali rock star presses his lips into a thin smile. He curtly nods and walks off to play some music for the dusty flora and fauna around here.
Diego starts the pickup truck and slowly drives off, the van disappearing from view.
Markham heaves a sigh and closes his eyes. He throws his head back and lets the night air hit his face.
Diego looks over to his passenger and asks, "Everything OK, homes? You got this weird look on your face."
"Just tired, that's all. It's been a long night."
The Gangrel sighs and concurs, "It certainly has, hasn't it? Back home, right? Unless you got any more places you wanna stop by?"
"No, I think I'm done for the night. And, thank you. You've...stayed with me this far. It...has to count for something, right?"
The Feral nods and accelerates his vehicle, the speed picking up, "Yeah, yeah. What are friends for, right? Besides, you were, and still ARE, a vato in distress. I see that and I gotta get in there and help in whatever way I can, man. It's just who I am, y'know?"
"Yeah. Thank you. You and Marisol. You've both done a lot for me." The sincerity is real and apparent in Markham's tired voice.
Diego looks at Markham from the corner of his eye and inquires, "So, what's the whole deal with your Sire?"
"Burt? Well, it's long and it's complicated."
There's traffic up ahead. Diego wryly laughs and points out, "Well, shit. It looks like we have time."
Markham figures there's no use hiding his messy (and bloody) past from the man whose Haven he temporarily stays in. So, in the midst of this bumper-to-bumper traffic, Markham Reed tells Diego...everything.
Diego does look shocked and utterly flabbergasted at certain parts, his eyes widened in disbelief and horror in equal measures. He almost loses grip of the steering wheel a few times, his jaw agape.
"Holy shit!" he simply says, "Holy fucking shit, man. You...you were a fucking Sabbat Shovelhead? HOLY SHIT! I heard stories about that stuff, whoa!"
Markham explains, "Well, hmm, yeah. Of all the Clans, I'd have to say that--that the Lasombra is probably the worst. I know I'm painting with too broad a stroke, but--"
Diego reassuringly says, "There's no Lasombra in F-City. Don't worry, homes. They won't ever be here. Not if WE Gangrel have anything to say about it."
Markham uneasily says, "I...hope so, Diego. I really do. I don't even wanna know what they'd do to an already beaten-down city like this."
(The very thought sends shivers up the Demon's undead spine).
The ride back is fairly long, but Markham is able to rest and relax and recharge a little. The conversation with his Sire has helped him put some things in perspective, and he feels a bit more grounded and ready to face whatever comes next.
But, HOW ready he would be remains to be seen. A lot is about to happen, a lot is about to go down in the next couple of weeks. The question remains: will this middle-class Federal Government employee be able to hold on to his Humanity?
Only time will tell, and it has a lot it wants to tell us.
The next couple of nights will prove to be...trying for all involved. From Dr. Collins to Mauve Lilac to Markham Reed and everyone else, be they mortal or immortal (or somewhere in between), caught up in this dangerous game of power and deception.
There are still unseen forces, lurking in the shadows and waiting to pounce...or be pounced upon.
Somewhere else in this city...
Dr. Collins tells Wesley he's going for a quick drive somewhere. He tells the receptionist he's got some things to see to (can the good doctor be any less vague?)
The Tzimisce doctor also tells Wes not to worry. The kid still needs reassurances after what's happened.
Wesley nods and returns to carefully and diligently arranging patient cards in alphabetical order. Dr. Collins cracks a small smile upon seeing this. He then gets in his green Honda and drives to his intended destination.
He keeps his eyes on the road ahead and only stops when needed (like, at a red light). From the rearview mirror, he thinks he sees a familiar vehicle.
The Stoker shrugs it off, "Hm, just my imagination."
After a few minutes, Dr. Collins reaches a storage center near the outskirts of this city. He steps out of his vehicle, closes it, and heads to the unit he's been renting out for years now. He already has the key ready. The lock opens and he slides the doors open.
The ground below his feet is cracked and weeds grow out of it. The space smells musty and damp. But, the vampire pays little heed to these things. He switches on the lights and makes his way inside the storage unit.
The lights flicker and cast an ominous glow around the tight space.
The Flesh-Shaper shuts the doors and takes a look around this space of his. It's about the size of a small room, or a small apartment. Inside, there are a few pieces of old furniture, trinkets, stacks of old magazines, and such.
Tzimisce, generally, like holding onto (one might be impelled to say "hoarding") stuff from their pasts (or mortal lives) or stuff that they simply find valuable and interesting. Some, like Dr. Collins, can let go of all that stuff, but others simply can't.
So, they settle for a compromise of sorts and keep them in places like this. This is just a small part of what Dr. Collins has accumulated over the decades.
It's also a good place to store extra stuff that there's simply no place for in the doc's Haven.
With money currently being tight (the recent expenses are certainly NOT helping), Dr. Collins looks around and contemplates selling some of this stuff. He strokes his chin and peers through his lowered glasses at a stack of old records he hasn't listened to in decades.
He figures he can sell a few. Maybe he'll get lucky and find a vinyl record collector or 2? But in this uncultured city, that's a big "if".
Dr. Collins shakes his head, "No, I'll...hold onto those a little while longer."
(That's the same exact thing he told himself back in 1986!)
The doc walks around and takes a mental inventory of the dust-caked stuff in here, "Hmm, MAD Magazines, old medical journals, a few of my old clothes and letters, ah, I see I still have that old typewriter of mine. I should show it to Wes, heh." He smiles fondly at this.
He's about to sit down on an old couch when he hears some strange noises and shuffling behind him. His Beast stirs within him. His skin crawls and his hair stands up on end. He feels cold all of a sudden.
His claws pop out and he slowly unlocks the door, ready to bolt (or attack) if need be. The sound is getting louder. His fangs extend and he licks his lips. His eyes dart about frantically as he reaches for the doorknobs.
He opens the door and squints his eyes, spotting no one. No one at all. He blinks in confusion, shakes his head, and closes the doors again. He locks them. He scratches his head and sits down on the couch.
After spending a minute in silence, the Stoker moves a false wall aside. This leads into a tight and cramped space. He pulls a sheet over a gurney and looks down in indifference at who's on it.
His expression hardens and he covers them back up. Without saying a word, he rearranges the false wall and makes sure it's all covered up. He heaves a sigh and checks his watch, "Hm, I'm...running late."
As Dr. Collins is about to head towards his car and drive back to the clinic, his undead hairs stand on end. He hears something strange again. He feels a sudden chill, as if someone is watching him.
He hears a very faint noise. It sounds like scratching. Like...claws scraping against the surface of a hard, metallic surface.
The doc turns around and spots a shadowy figure in the distance. From where he's standing, he can't make out much...apart from the fact that they're human.
He narrows his eyes at this silhouette and gulps as he takes a few cautious steps towards them. Whoever they are, they remain standing in place, arms seemingly folded in front of them. He stops and tries to make out some more features.
The lights are dim and it's difficult to make anything out.
Dr. Collins clears his throat and asks, "Hello? C--Can I help you?"
The figure takes a step into the light. It's Sheriff Velma DuPont. She lifts her chin and stands there, looking all smug and confident. The good doctor's eyes widen in surprise.
His jaw drops and he stammers in shock, "Y--you, y--you're--" he pauses and tries to compose himself.
The Ventrue Sheriff remarks, "Oh, I do love it when they squirm." She approaches the doctor and gives him a once-over.
She's wearing a trench coat and platform shoes. She's got some shiny lip gloss and eyeshadow on. Her hair is neatly tied in her usual up-do style. There's a thin smile on her face as she continues to size up the Tzimisce in front of her.
Dr. Collins glowers at her, "Are you...following me?"
The Sheriff shrugs casually, "So, what if I am, hmm?"
Dr. Collins is about to clap back, but he catches his tongue lest he run afoul of the Sheriff of Flimont City. He's not just any Kindred now, he's a part of the Primogen Council, so he best watch his step and choose his words carefully.
He says nothing and folds his arms across his chest. He regards her with suspicion and distrust, eyes narrowed in deep annoyance. He looks around warily, trying to find any others who may be lurking nearby.
Sheriff Velma shakes her head, "Don't worry. I came alone."
"Why are you even following me??"
"Walk with me." It sounds more like a command than anything else.
The Ventrue Sheriff's platform shoes clop and clack and click on the ground as she heads off somewhere. Dr. Collins sighs and follows her closely.
On the way out, he spots a dude sitting on a lounge chair and playing something on his PS2 console. There's a cooler besides him and he looks really tired and worn out.
Long day at work, perhaps. Dr. Collins recognizes this individual as a patient of his, named Travis.
Travis looks to be in his 30s. He has a scruffy beard and is a little chubby. He has a random tattoo on his forearm. He's wearing a t-shirt and black cargo shorts. His hair is unkempt and messy, but not to an absurd extent.
Dr. Collins stops in his tracks and approaches his patient, "Travis??!"
Travis puts his PlayStation 2 controller aside and greets his doctor, "Hey, Doc Collins! What's up, my man?" He holds his hand up, expecting a high-five. The doc reluctantly complies.
Travis then inquires, "What's uh...what's up? You here to rent out a storage unit??"
The Tzimisce shakes his head, "No, I'm...I already have 1. I--are you living here, Travis?"
Travis sighs deeply and lowers his head, embarrassed and ashamed, "Yeeah. It's cheaper than an apartment, y'know. The housing situation here is...not so great, man." He laughs weakly and awkwardly scratches the back of his head.
The Doctor sharply exhales, "Hmm, yes. I'm so sorry to hear that. Have you made an appointment?"
"I'll try, doc. It's not easy, y'know. My back's absolutely killing me, man. A friend at the garage recommended some OxyContin, but I know you hate that shit with a passion, huh?"
He laughs heartily and adds, "Sorry, I shouldn't joke about that, haha!"
Dr. Collins simply nods, "Come by anytime this week, Travis. We'll see what we can do about your back."
The mortal presents a thumbs-up, picks up his controller and goes back to his game. Sheriff Velma flashes him a quick and curt smile and continues walking on.
Once out of that mortal's hearing range, the Blue Blood remarks, "You really care about your patients, huh?"
"Of course I do. Why wouldn't I??"
"You know, there was this Setite that I knew a long time ago. Well, long is stretching it a bit."
"Oh, a Setite? I knew a few. They seem...decent enough. I could see myself getting along and working with them, should the opportunity arise."
"Hmm, we'll see about that. Anyway, his name was Rafael De La Cruz..."
"Sounds...interesting. What made this Rafael so special? Was he an Elder or something?" Dr. Collins is quite curious, but he keeps a careful eye on the Sheriff. This entire situation is strange, to say the least.
She's been following him for who knows how long? He needs to tread carefully and avoid making enemies. Moreover, Dr. Collins's position as Primogen for the Tzimisce Clan is dependent on him keeping certain...matters hidden from the Prince and the Sheriff.
(Like whoever's tucked away in his storage unit, for instance).
Sheriff Velma answers his query, "Oh, I wouldn't call him an Elder. By our standards, he wasn't...that old. He wasn't a Fledgling, either. He told me something. And, after all these years it's still stuck to me like glue."
"What was it?" Dr. Collins looks at her, intrigued and confused in equal measures.
The Sheriff says, "He said, 'Velma, my dear. Don't bother trying to change things- let it happen. Ride out the chaos to its inevitable destination.'"
Dr. Collins winces and twitches when he hears this. He disagrees by shaking his head, "That sounds absolutely terrible! Where did he even get such an idea from???!"
The Sheriff's voice takes a slightly more amusing tone, "From experience, I suppose. He also told me there were 2 things that were the greatest mistakes in human history."
The doctor prompts her to continue, "Well?"
She smiles wryly and tells him, "The Enlightenment was the 1st. The 2nd thing was, believe it or not, giving women the right to vote."
Dr. Collins grimaces and retorts, "If it wasn't for The Enlightenment, we'd all be dead or bedridden before we even hit 30; and that's just 1 of the many positives that came from it. And seriously, how the hell is women's suffrage a...mistake??" the doc looks genuinely dumbfounded and speechless by what he just heard.
The Sheriff plainly shrugs and slows down her walking speed, "You know how the Ministry is, doctor. Hmm, enough about him. He was...interesting, mysterious, even."
"He sounds like an asshole."
The Ventrue faintly chuckles, "So, how are things, doc? Any news on Galeb yet? Any info on possible whereabouts? Any leads, any...thing? Prince Antonio is on my ass about this and I'd like to actually get somewhere for once."
Dr. Collins sighs in annoyance, "I wish people would stop asking me that question. He...never mind."
Sheriff Velma shakes her head, "Oh, no, please. Don't leave me hanging here. I'll follow up on anything."
"I don't know anything. Now, please, stop asking me about him. It's starting to get...a bit...annoying." For whatever reason, he looks a lot more agitated and twitchy now.
Sheriff Velma notices this and narrows her eyes at him, "Why the sudden change in demeanor, honey? All I did was ask a simple question."
"Well, I um...I don't know. Like I said, it's...it's getting tiring, you know," the Stoker shrugs. He's trying to sound as casual as possible, but he can't hide the nervousness and uneasiness in his voice.
Sheriff Velma comes closer to him and puts her hand on his tense shoulder, "IF there's something that you're keeping from me, Dr. Collins--"
The Dragon swats her hand away and says through gritted teeth, "I'm not."
Sheriff Velma holds up her hands in mock surrender and takes a step back, "Easy, easy, easy."
She lifts her chin and sternly warns, "And don't you ever swat my hand away like that...ever again. Got it?"
Dr. Collins lowers his head a little, "I'm sorry. Forgive me. I'm just...under a lot of pressure right now. After Prince Antonio expected me to cough up 10 grand, money's been tight."
Sheriff Velma shrugs and carelessly waves her hand around, "Why don't you dive back into your storage unit and sell some stuff, then, hmm?"
The doc sighs deeply, "I was actually considering that."
"And?"
"And what? I...still feel kinda attached to that stuff. It's a Tzimisce thing, I guess."
"Hmm, I'm all too aware of how you Fiends love hoarding things...and people."
"It's just things for me."
The Ventrue Sheriff runs her fingers across a random door and taps on it a few times, "Funny thing is, we rent out a few of these babies every now and then. It was overflowing with the great unwashed homeless population a few nights back."
Dr. Collins gasps, "My god."
"Hmm, yes, so sad. Anyways, the Prince doesn't take too kindly to squatters on his properties, so they had to be...evicted."
"That's awful!"
"It is what it is, Dr. Collins. The game's rigged, best I can do is heed the advice of Rafael: shrug it all off, let what happens happen, and go along for the wild ride."
The Flesh-Shaper firmly disagrees with her assessment, "Not me. No. I can still do some good here, even if this city sucks."
The Sheriff looks him up and down and comments, "Is that why you're so devoted to your patients and that clinic of yours? Because you think you're 'doing good' there?" she looks incredulous and amused at this.
Dr. Collins is quick to respond, "I KNOW I'm doing good there!"
"Well, I won't argue with you. Do you even know why I'm here?"
"To stalk me because you clearly have nothing better to do?"
"Au contraire, mon cher (FR: my dear). I have plenty of better things to do tonight. Still, I'm obliged to run that thorough background check on you. After this, I might go and speak to your fellow Tzimisce. Dr. Sarah, perhaps?"
Dr. Collins calmly states, "Knock yourself out. She's a good friend of mine."
"I'm sure she is, darling. I'm sure she is. But, you Tzimisce seriously have a hoarding problem."
Dr. Collins lightly scoffs at her, "C'mon, it's not THAT bad. Maybe it's a way for some of us to keep in touch with our Humanity, have you ever thought about that, or is that something else you plan to dismiss while riding out to your 'inevitable destination'?"
Sheriff Velma clicks her tongue and dismissively waves a hand around, "Oh, hush, doctor. It's like you don't even know me. I know the struggles we all face. My job is making sure that those struggles don't make the 9 o'clock news."
The Stoker counters, "A hoarder hardly sounds like a Masquerade breach, let alone prime time material. Besides, if anything, the media around here should be focusing their efforts on other problems."
The Sheriff raises an eyebrow and prompts him to elaborate, "Such as??"
"Such as--do you even know what's going on around here??"
"If it intersects with Kindred matters, then it's my problem. If not, well...I don't really see the point, honestly. Why? Has something happened?"
Dr. Collins sighs in frustration and doesn't dignify her out-of-touch question. He changes the subject, "What do you want, Sheriff Velma?"
She takes him to a corner and lowers her voice a bit, "I actually had a medical question. A...personal medical question."
Dr. Collins straightens up, "Oh? I can help with that. Um...what's bothering you?"
The Blue Blood Sheriff explains, "In the DuPont family, there's a history of breast cancer. I just wanna double-check and make sure that everything's alright with me."
Dr. Collins scratches his chin and thinks about how he can respond to this query, "Um, hmm, you'll need to give me some more details."
"From what I understand and from what other DuPont women have told me, it's pretty prevalent and tends to strike every generation. My mother had it when I was little. My grandmother had it, too. So did my aunt."
She takes a deep breath and continues, "So, do you think I'll be OK? I'm already over that age and still nothing."
The doctor nods and says, "It's hard to say, Sheriff Velma. The best I can tell you is to schedule an appointment and I'll run a few tests on you, send the results to the lab, and see what comes back. Well, that's normally what I'd do, but your...situation complicates things."
"How so?" she looks on-edge and nervous. Even her dead eyes look somewhat fearful and alert.
Dr. Collins leans in and quietly tells her, "Well, everything, really."
She blinks a few times and stares at him blankly, "Huh?"
He explains, "It's complicated for someone without the necessary background. Best thing I could suggest is you perform a few breast self-exams in your free time."
"Oh? How--how does that work exactly?"
Dr. Collins patiently tells her, "Just know that most lumps and abnormalities arent cancer. When were you Embraced, anyway? Did you feel or notice anything different before or immediately after your Embrace?"
"I was Embraced in the 1940s. And, no, not really. I remember waking up and feeling like a whole new woman. I never had to worry about any of those pesky things mortals had to deal with. No colds, no periods, no flu, no measles, no polio, nothing. Heh."
"Yeah, if only it were that easy."
Dr. Collins proceeds to explain some simple breast self-exam techniques she can do from the comfort (and privacy) of her own Haven. He asks her to share her results with him so he can get a better idea of what he's dealing with.
He even goes as far as to tell her that there are various forms of breast cancer and that she should schedule an appointment with another clinic, "Don't worry, she's a Ghoul, so you don't have to be so concerned about any Masquerade breaches or whatever tends to get Sheriffs all agitated."
The Sheriff looks at him and says nothing, but her expression clearly speaks volumes. Regardless, she's impressed by his dedication and thoroughness when it comes to his patients' health and wellbeing.
She nods firmly, "Hmm, I'll keep that in mind. So, I just...strip naked and touch myself in front of the mirror, huh?"
"Breast self-exams are not exactly a foolproof replacement for more comprehensive options like mammograms, but I have no idea how those machines would react to our vampiric bodies, so this is the next best thing. Admittedly, I haven't done much studying on this particular issue. I should, though."
The Sheriff nods and says, "I'll see what I can do. Any other pointers or words of wisdom?"
The Tzimisce Primogen dryly states, "Please stop following me. I know what my responsibilities are."
Sheriff Velma smirks, "Heh. Speaking of, the Prince has called a meeting tomorrow night. We still haven't decided on a where, but it's not gonna be at Elysium. Not the greatest call, but he's the Prince and his word is final." There's a hint of annoyance and disapproval in her voice.
Dr. Collins blinks a few times and nods, "I'll keep that in mind. I'll make sure I'm not doing anything else during that time."
The Ventrue Sheriff puts her hands in her trench coat pockets, "Alright, Dr. Collins, we're done here."
"We are. Goodnight, Sheriff Velma. Set an appointment sometime this week."
The Blue Blood twirls her fingers and elegantly sashays away. She gets in her sleek red Mustang convertible. It purrs to life and she speeds off somewhere else.
Dr. Collins watches her go and heaves a HUGE sigh of relief.
He looks around and goes back to his storage unit. He unlocks it and goes as far as to check on in whoever's on that gurney. His expression is neutral and unreadable.
He covers them back up and goes to his vehicle. He starts it up and drives back to the clinic. Along the way, his thoughts drift hither and yon and thither.
The Stoker is walking on thin ice. If ANYONE were to discover his little secret behind that false wall, it's his head coming clean off his shoulders, no exceptions, no explanations, no nothing.
So, the question remains: how long will he be able to keep this charade going? And even more importantly, what if said secret gets out?
The doctor banishes such troubling thoughts from his mind, shakes his head, and puts his foot on the accelerator, running an orange light that turned red just as he got past.
Traffic isn't too bad tonight. The streets are practically empty, which is unusual for this congested city. There's a lot of construction work happening around town and some parts of the road have been blocked off due to "maintenance" and "repair".
Dr. Collins decides to let his Ghoul, Brock, in on the secret at the storage unit. At least confiding in someone close will alleviate the accumulating stress and anxiety.
As he continues driving down a quiet and dark road, the doctor makes a sharp right turn. His tires screech as his vehicle skids a little. He stops to gather his composure.
In the back of his mind, he keeps worrying that someone's gonna bust open his storage unit, go through it like a whirlwind, and reveal the terrible truth lying right behind it. He's so worried about it that he almost runs over a cat crossing the road.
"Dammit!" he says under his breath as he narrowly avoids it. The feline scampers off into the shadows, its tail sticking up high. It turns around and hisses at him before scurrying off.
"Hmph, yeah, I absolutely deserved that. Heh. I...just hope nobody else around here is too nosy. God, I should consider moving--no, forget it. It's safe where it is. It'll be OK. I just need to figure out my next step. Hmm, yeah, my next step."
"What comes next? How's it all gonna play out?" he drums his fingers on his steering wheel as he ruminates on his current predicament.
What comes next is gonna be...intriguing, to say the least!
Chapter 11: Y2K
The sun, that great and terrible star of heat and light, has begun its ascent, ushering in a new day for the denizens of this Midwestern metropolis. The summer heat is brutal and stinging.
Traffic begins to build up as mortals ready themselves for yet another (hot) day of work, school, court appointments, or whatever else they're occupied with. It's another busy day for them and they're already starting off on a bad note, it seems. The usual.
The monotony. The drudgery.
Add to that a bunch of hopped-up cops; the FCPD makes the LAPD look like the Hare Krishna. The police continue to be out in full force, assault rifles, armored vans, and all. Some folks have already gotten arrested for simply making comments.
1 guy said something along the lines of, "The FCPD needs to relax and give us a break, y'know." They promptly put him in cuffs and threw him in a cop cruiser for whatever "reason" they could cook up on the spot.
A group of 14-year-olds were seen doing skateboarding tricks on the streets in the wee hours of the morning. Now, their parents and guardians are going through a byzantine process of bailing their children out of a jail cell. All they did was do what all other youngsters have always done. It's as simple as that.
But, apparently, in this city, that's now a criminal offense. It's crazy. Absolutely crazy.
The media hoopla continues to swirl around as news crews from nearby cities and states descend upon the area like carrion flies. The 2 slain officers are lionized and praised to the high fucking heavens while there's barely a squeak about the other 4 people who were brutally murdered.
The citizens of this city are being fed a misleading narrative of the events. Any other alternative is either discarded or willfully ignored. Questions regarding the 4 people are shrugged off by the well-heeled talking heads in the media.
Which only begs the question: Who were those 4 people who Clarence had brutally murdered by Mr. Strickland's soldier? What made those 4 people (3 men and 1 child) so utterly unimportant in the eyes of the powers that be?
Why do THEIR lives matter so little?
The 3 men all worked for Laurence's company- Lancaster-SYS.
Laurence is the founder and CEO. The 3 men were named Matteo (a server and database architect), Jake (a programmer), and Jeong (a technician).
Due to the unaffordable housing in this damn city, the 3 men were living together along with Jake's son, named Leo. He was 8-years-old.
The 3 men were apparently commissioned to build a complex piece of software for a private infrastructure project that requires a lot of server and computing power. They worked night and day, tirelessly, at their project and it was nearing completion.
They were fueled by nothing but caffeine pills and promises of large bonuses. All good and well until Matteo got curious and started probing deeper into the finer details of the project.
The clients (whoever they are) weren't very happy about this. They threatened to pull out until Laurence's dad got wind of this. Clarence immediately hired Mr. Strickland's people to...take care of the problem.
The results were self-evident. The aftermath, on the other hand, continues to unravel. In typical PR fashion, the company spokesperson has offered "thoughts and prayers" to the families of the 3 slain men and the poor kid.
Their families have already reached out to various media outlets to get a more balanced perspective of what exactly is happening here. They want answers. They want someone to be held accountable.
They demand an investigation (a proper one) into these killings.
But, it looks like that ain't gonna happen any time soon. This is Flimont City, after all. A city governed by greed and avarice, a game rigged to benefit a small sliver while screwing over the rest.
Moreover, the 3 employees threatened to go public after they discovered the true extent of what they were taking part in and working on. Matteo and the others tried to call Laurence, but it was too late, the hit had already been put out, the money had already been transferred.
Mr. Green had already found them and done the dirty deed, thus sealing their fates.
That was that. 3 innocent workers and 1 wean dead along with the 2 cops. 4 whole families were shattered in an instant. All in a single sunny afternoon.
So far, nobody has drawn the connection between where these 3 men worked and the circumstances surrounding their murders, so the media continues to focus its energies on the 2 slain officers.
The police chief keeps up his menacing (albeit shopworn) routine of threats and tough-guy warnings to the denizens of F-City. Through gritted teeth, he promises swift and merciless retaliation to the killer of his blue brethren. He keeps up this vile rhetoric every time he's asked to speak to the press.
It gets so egregious that the FCPD's PR and media department have to issue these tame-sounding, sugarcoated statements, lest they give the wrong impression and incur EVEN MORE wrath from the wider public.
The citizens of Flimont City are already quite fed up and agitated with this heavy-handed (and heavy-handedly policed) state of affairs, so the last thing anyone needs is some trigger-happy, itchy-finger, bigoted cop going ballistic on a bunch of innocent people.
Afternoon is particularly sweltering in Flimont City. It's like walking into a brick oven in the desert. The local news station warns its citizens to stay inside or stay out of the sun's rays if possible.
It's only by sheer luck (which will indubitably run out soon) that there aren't more heat-related deaths around here.
People have been fainting left, right, and center due to the overwhelming heat and humidity. Some people have even died from the heat and dehydration, but the news reports and news articles make no mention of this.
The airwaves are all clogged up with Officers Davis and Sanchez and every silly little thing they ever did or said. Minus all their...problematic doings and sayings, of course.
In time, that great ball of fiery fire begins its unceremonious descent. The heat doesn't abate much. The evening air is humid and stagnant, the winds are non-existent. It's awful. Just awful.
Truly awful.
As soon as the sun has set, the Kindred rise and ready themselves to face the night ahead. Markham springs up and blinks rapidly. He rubs his face a few times and groans, "Oh, another night." His Beast stirs within him.
Its eternal Hunger needs sating of the red and sticky kind.
Diego awakens and sees Marisol still as a corpse. He shakes her a few times and she springs up, fangs and claws out. Her eyes are wide and alert. She takes a few deep breaths and her body relaxes a little.
The Feral smiles and says, "WHOA! Easy, haha! It's alright, chica. I'm here. We're OK. We're all OK."
He leans forward and kisses her on the lips. She sighs deeply and melts into his embrace. She smiles and kisses him back. She holds him and closes her eyes, resting her head on his shoulder.
"Ready for work tonight?" he asks while playing with her messy hair.
Marisol grunts and groans, "What other purpose do I have, hmm?"
Diego clicks his tongue and encourages his girlfriend, "Hey, hey, c'mon now. What's up, huh? You've been looking real sour since you came back last night."
With tiredness lacing every word, the Outlander says, "It's...just work, D. I've--I've been through worse." Her eye twitches and a few droplets of blood drip down her face. Her hands shake a little.
Diego hugs her tightly and reassures her, "We're gonna be fine, alright? Just...do what you gotta do and don't attract too much attention to yourself, OK? We're survivors, we're Gangrel, remember?"
Marisol nods and weakly laughs, "Hmm, yes, I know what Clan we are, D."
Diego cups Marisol's icy cheeks in his cold hands and asks out of concern, "Was it someone at work? Did they say something? Are they asking about your immigration status or some shit like that??"
Marisol shakes her head and gulps, "No. There's talk, only talk so far, about downsizing."
Diego lets out a gasp, eyes widened in shock, "Oh, no. Oh, no, no, no, no, no. That's bad. That's real bad." He shakes his head and rubs his girlfriend's back.
Marisol continues, "Yes. Rumors are going around that they're gonna cut 5% to 10% of the workforce. No details or anything. They just...tell us to stay on our toes and update our resumes."
Marisol is pulled in for a tight and reassuring hug. Diego whispers in her ear, "Hey, I gotcha, girl. It'll be alright, we'll figure it out. You just go do what you gotta do. And if it doesn't work out, we'll find a solution together. OK?"
"OK. I'll let you know how it goes."
Diego kisses her forehead and tells her, "Go get 'em, tiger!"
After showering, Marisol gets ready. She wears a silk shirt, a pencil skirt, and some of her abuela's old jewelry. She ruffles her curly hair and puts some makeup on. She looks at herself in the mirror.
Her face is a little patchier than usual. Her eyes are duller. Her cheeks are sunken.
"Hmm, not bad," she mutters under her breath, "I can do this. I just have to...be ready. For the worst."
Diego puts on a baggy flannel shirt and some corduroy pants. He hears what's she's saying and responds, "Or the best! Look, if you do get let go, I'll have no problem looking for something more...stable, alright?"
Marisol smiles warmly, "That's...kind of you."
Diego smiles a thin smile back, "Kindness to each other is what keeps us going, heh."
Marisol checks herself 1 more time. She smooths out some wrinkles in her shirt and nods. She walks out with Diego in tow. Markham is already in the living room, sitting quietly on the sofa and not moving an inch.
Marisol nods over to the Baali and says, "So, I heard you ran into his Sire last night, huh?"
Diego nods. He told Marisol everything. Of course he did. They tell each other everything. No secrets. Nothing. Ever.
He says, "Yeah. That Iggy Pop looking guy was kinda...ehh...interesting, I guess. I really can't find the right word to describe him. Some things, you just have to see for yourself, haha!"
Markham sighs deeply, "Hm. Yeah." He shudders a little and runs his fingers across his face, "I...wasn't quite expecting that. Hey, Diego?"
"What's up, d-man?"
Markham stands up, "You mind if I make a few phone calls before we um...head out?"
The Feral plainly shrugs, "Go right ahead, homes. Go right ahead." He watches Markham walk to the kitchen. The Baali dials a number on his flip phone and patiently waits for whoever's on the other end to pick up.
After a few rings, a sort of hoarse female voice answers, "Hello. How may I help ya?"
"Darla. It's me," the Baali says in a very laid-back but polite manner.
The Nossie exclaims, "Markham! How the hell are you doing, huh?"
"I'm fine. How...uh...how are you doing?"
Darla shuffles some things on her desk and stifles a groan, "Yeah, I'm all good. I'm all good. So, what's up?"
"I need some information, Darla. I figured that you're the person who might be able to help."
The Nosferatu lady nods and a pen-clicking sound can be heard in the background of the call, "Shoot."
Mr. Reed proceeds to tell her everything (which isn't very much) he's managed to learn about Mr. Strickland's organization of contract killers.
By the end of it all, the blue Nosferatu lady on the other end of the line is reeling, "Whoa. Wow. That...wow, OK. Shit. That's truly messed up, huh? Yeah, I'll make some calls, turn over a few stubborn rocks, and see what's there. I'll get back to you. Just keep your phone on, alright?"
"I'll try, Darla. Thank you. Thanks so much. Talk soon."
"Talk soon."
The Baali hangs up and sighs in relief. He sits on a rickety old chair in the kitchen and rests his chin on his palm. He taps his fingers against his cheek and sighs, "I...hmm, what time is it there, anyway?"
After a minute or so, he dials another number. This time, Jamie answers, but she sounds so groggy and tired, "Hello? Who...who's calling? I--I didn't forget anything, did I??"
Markham immediately replies, "It's Markham. Jamie, are you OK?"
Ms. Pollux blinks a few times and stammers, "Oh, uh, hmm, yes, yes, I'm fine, I'm fine. Hey, Markham. What--what's up?"
Markham furrows his brows and inquires, "Are you alright, Jamie? You don't sound so great."
Jamie sniffles a few times and makes a few goofy and guttural sounds, "Hrmhp. Grrrfgh. Yeah, yeah, totes fine. Ugh..."
Markham winces and grimaces as his Touchstone groans and whimpers in the background, "Oh, no, that's not good."
Jamie stifles a cough and replies, "I'm fine, Markham, I'm fine. Don't worry about me, heh."
The Baali shakes his head, "Are you sure, Jamie?"
"Hmph, yeah, I'm sure, dude. I just, oh, wait...I don't remember leaving my window open..." she trails off as she shuffles out of her bed and heads to the window.
She looks around for a few seconds and closes it, "Huh, yeah, this wasn't open before. I'm gonna, hmm, I'll get right on that, I guess."
Markham's expression softens, a look of concern forming on his pale face, "Be...be careful, Jamie."
Jamie faintly laughs and throws herself back on her bed, "Yeah...yeah. God, I fe--feel so dizzy."
"Did you go and eat something you shouldn't have? Again?"
"Naaaah. I remember having some cup noodles that was, like, a day past the expiry date. It wouldn't be my 1st time doing something like that, heh. No, I feel all..."
She pauses for a moment, feeling quite nauseous, "...all woozy and my neck, like, really hurts. I must've slept in a wrong position or something."
Markham looks REALLY concerned now, "Are you sure you're OK, Jamie?"
Jamie lazily waves her hand, "Yeah, yeah. So, how's the investigation into those 2 bozos going?"
Markham scratches his head and sighs, "It's going great. Even then, there's not much to go on, really. I need more evidence before we can make a move against them. It's been...frustrating, to say the least."
"That's unfortunate. Sorry to hear that."
"It is what it is. Anyway, take care, Jamie. Get plenty of rest."
Jamie snickers, "Will do, commander Reed! Haha! I miss you, Markham. Really, I do. The office is so...bland, so bleh, without you around."
Markham plainly says, "I'll try to wrap things up as soon as I can, Jamie. To be honest, I'm kinda tired of this place. Now that I've seen it firsthand, I...I can see why people avoid this city at all costs."
"Oh, yeah, heh. True, true. I've been keeping up with the news. It's so sad, what happened to those people there."
"Hm. It sure is. Hey, I should let you go now. Take care."
Jamie laughs weakly, "Heh, you, too. And hey, Markham? Come back safely, OK?" her tone is hopefulness laced with desperation.
"I will. I promise. Stay safe out there."
As he's about to hang up, Jamie suddenly asks, "Wait, wait, wait! Um...did you, hmm, did you meet someone nice, someone pretty yet?"
Markham pauses for a few seconds and answers, "Uh...no."
Jamie pouts, "Aww. Did you at least wear that aloha shirt? Y--you remembered to pack it, right?"
"I did. It fits really nicely."
"Haha! I'm glad to hear that. If--if it's possible, ah...never mind. I--ugh, I feel so weak and tired."
The Baali tells her, "Get some rest, Jamie. You don't sound so great. Are you sure that you're not sick?"
"Yeah, yeah, I'm fine. I--I'll talk to you later, OK? OK, Markham. Bye-bye. Love ya!" she hangs up before her co-worker can respond.
He puts his phone back in his pocket, sighs deeply, and goes back to the living room.
He sits down, looking a lot more stressed and agitated now. He rubs his temples. A knock on the door is heard. Marisol narrows her eyes and goes to answer it.
"Hola, senorita." Burt's voice is as clear as ever, but it has that slight rough edge to it all the same.
Marisol sighs and regards him with some suspicion, "Yes?"
The Baali rock star is dressed in a torn jean jacket, a collared t-shirt, and ripped jeans. He's wearing an inverted cross necklace and...eyeliner, because that's just how cool he is.
Burt bows his head and takes Marisol's hand. He gently kisses it and says, "Please allow me to introduce myself properly. My name is Burt. Might I just add that you're looking...absolutely smashing tonight, my dear."
Marisol yanks her hand away, "OK. That's enough, t--thank you. What are you doing here?"
Burt chuckles and looks behind her. He nods towards Diego, "Hey! Is rock star over here?"
Diego grins and lets the Baali inside, "Yeah, he's here, alright."
Burt has his guitar case slung across his shoulder. He enters the room and nods at Markham, who nods back. The 2 Kindred look at each other for a brief moment.
Burt grins and breaks the silence, "What's the haps, huh?"
Markham answers, "Oh, nothing, really."
Burt sets his guitar case down, sits on the sofa, and kicks his feet up on the coffee table, "Well, then, this is a sweet place you got here, Feral."
Marisol folds her arms and shoots Burt a disapproving look, "Please...take your feet off my table. Thank you." She sounds firm, but not rude, when she says this.
The Baali shrugs and obliges, "Of course, of course. My bad. Marisol, right? Beautiful name."
"Hmm, yes, I'm sure it is," she turns to Markham and Diego and says, "I'm off to work now. See you later. Diego, a word."
Diego eyebrows shoot up, "Oh! The queen of the castle wants a word, heh heh. Be right back, boys."
Marisol takes her boyfriend out of earshot and asks, "Another Baali? Look, I know he has nothing to do with the Baali already here, but..."
Diego nods in understanding, "I know, I know, alright. But, we can trust 'em, alright? So far, Markham's not done anything to piss us off. A good thing, right? I'm sure his Sire is just as...nice. And he's sooo cool! Did you see that eyeliner he's got on?! It's dope!"
"Yes. I have the same brand. Alright. I love you, D. Take care. I'll let you know how tonight goes. See you later."
She pulls Diego in for a quick kiss on the lips. After that, she grabs her helmet, scooter keys, purse, and jacket and exits her Haven. The door clicks shut and Diego returns to the living room.
Burt asks him, "So, what's the plan tonight, huh? I gotta say, this city ain't all it's cracked up to be."
"Same, homie. Same. Let's see, first, we should feed. Man, I feel my stomach rumbling. Then, we can hang out, play some jams, whatever. Sound good?"
Burt nods, "Sounds like a party to me. You sure your lady won't mind me being around? She looked a little...flustered."
Diego replies, "It's fine. She understands. It's just work problems, y'know how it is."
"I sure do, buddy. I sure do."
Markham speaks up, "The sooner we're done feeding, the better. Diego here knows all the good hunting spots."
The Gangrel grins and lifts his chin up, "Damn right I do! We just have to stay out of sight, alright? And no making any dead bodies, alright?" he looks at Burt when saying that last part.
Burt plainly agrees, "That would be best, yeah."
The 2 Demons and the Feral set off, ready to feed on a few unsuspecting mortals. After a few minutes, they're back, Beasts satiated. Burt throws his head back and makes a satisfied grunt.
Diego whistles and stretches his arms. Markham is a bit more composed. The Feral looks at the 2 Baali and says, "C'mon, let's rock! How about it?"
The Baali rock star nods and gets his guitar out. He begins playing and jamming out, the music filling the room. Diego bops his head, Markham remains still and in-place, and Burt plays a few notes by strumming his acoustic guitar.
The 3 Kindred seem to enjoy each other's company, but Markham's mind, as always, is elsewhere. Diego jams along with Burt for a few more minutes.
After that, Burt puts his guitar aside and gently clasps his hands together, "Soooo, what's up?"
Diego jokingly answers, "Stars, the ceiling, the fan, and the roof. Hahaha!"
Markham has a distant look on his face, many things swirling around in his head, "I have work to do."
Burt clicks his tongue and dismissively waves his head, "C'mon, I won't take up too much of your time, OK? I got a few late-night gigs I gotta play at, anyway. The money's piss, but I'll fuckin' take it all the same. You can't be too picky when you're a musician. And a Kindred one, at that. Heh."
He then gets serious, "So, uh...I remember you said there were fans of my music in this 'lovely' city. Care to elaborate on that a bit more?"
Markham nods, "Yes."
Burt motions for his Childe to go on, "Well, don't leave me hanging here, kiddo."
Markham explains, "His name's Farooq. I think. He's at a tech store near the hotel I was staying at...before the, y'know. He's got bootleg copies of your album on a shelf, if I remember correctly. I'm sorry, it's just been a long week, y'know?"
Burt's eyes widen and he gets visibly excited, "Farooq, you say? Yeah, I'll check him out. And here I was, losing hope in this city's cultural scene. Where did you say he's at, again?"
"Near the hotel I was staying at. It's called the...the uh..."
Diego offers, "The Sheriton Grand, yeah. Real fancy-ass place, heh."
Burt nods his head and makes a mental note of it, "Alright, alright. Cool. Anything else I should be made aware of?"
Markham simply says, "Watch out for Sheriff Velma. Seeing that you refuse to present yourself to the Prince, she might just put you down on sight. She knows who you are because I had to tell her."
Burt scoffs, "Pfft. Like hell she will. From what I've been told, the Power Mongers around here aren't exactly known for being very welcoming or cordial to outsiders."
Markham shrugs, "True. Just watch yourself out there, Burt. With the way things are going in this city right now, I--I dunno."
Burt concurs with a low grunt and strums his guitar, "Hmm."
Markham turns his head aside, his thoughts drifting towards Jamie. The more he thinks about it, the more it seems like a vampire fed from Jamie, hence her sudden weakness and tiredness. She sounded so drained, even. So very...drained.
(It ain't the expired cup noodles).
Markham doesn't like it 1 bit, but his Touchstone is far, far away from him right now. He abruptly gets up, excuses himself, and tries Jamie's number again.
This time it goes to voicemail, "You've reached the cellphone number of Jamie Pollux, the one and only, haha! Please leave a message AFTER the beeping beep bop boop and I'll get back to ya!"
Markham clears his throat, "Hey, it's me. You don't have to pick up. I just wanted to say...be careful, stay safe, um...check your windows and don't uh...yeah, don't loiter around too much at nights. I know you like doing that, but just try not to. Take care, bye."
He hangs up and puts his phone away. He takes a deep breath and shakes his head. He returns to the others. They're still talking and chatting and having a blast, it seems.
Burt wildly gesticulates and recalls the time he came upon a random Kindred who bought into the Y2K panic. A Tremere of all people. As a result, they stocked up on buckets of blood.
That particular Usurper had taken the idea from Evangelical swindlers and liars proclaiming the end of the world...and selling doomsday-prepper food buckets. Only, in the case of certain vampires during that confused time period, the slop was replaced by actual human blood.
"It's a miracle the Camarilla didn't get involved, or worse, the fuckin' Sabbat," Burt tells the 2 Kindred in front of him. Markham listens quietly while Diego laughs and grimaces simultaneously.
Burt shudders and groans, "Yeah, well, I happened upon this ranch. The Tremere there had folk from around town hooked up to machines, tubes were stuck in their arms, and blood was being sucked outta them! That's when I realized, shit, they lost their goddamn minds, man!"
Diego asks, "Did you do something to save 'em?"
Burt straightens up, "'Course I did! It was lunacy, nothing more than a change in dates, go and buy a new calendar, that's it! I never did buy into all that Gehenna end is nigh bullshit. Hell, I've heard the same crop of segregationist bozos harp on about it since the fucking 1950s! It was ESPECIALLY nuts during the 1980s, isn't that right, Markham?"
Markham dryly concurs, his mind still on Jamie, "Hmm? What? Yeah, yeah, absolutely. The uh...whole end times craziness. Yeah, it's not exactly America's greatest hits, heh. But, the Tremere at that ranch, what happened to them?"
Burt sighs deeply, "I can't say for certain, kiddo. I managed to rescue a couple of people and let the others go, but that's about as much as I could do, really. Shoved as many as I could in my jalopy and booked it to the next county over. The sun was about to come up, so I gave 'em the car and told 'em to keep driving...and don't look back."
Diego sighs, "Man, that sounds traumatizing. Sheesh. I hope they're doing OK now."
Burt strums his guitar a few times and slowly nods, "Me too, buddy. Me too."
The Baali rocker stares longingly into the distance and shakes his head, "I'm not one to get hung up on the past, even when you're as 'old' as me, haha. Either way, you're never too 'old' to learn a thing or 2, hahaha."
The conversation eventually shifts to Burt's travels to South Central Los Angeles.
After reading a series of articles in a cyber caf, written by an investigative journalist named Gary Stephen Webb for the San Jose Mercury News, Burt decided to go down there and see, for himself, a focal point of the crack epidemic and its impact.
"That was a year back," Burt vividly recalls, "Damn, they're still suffering down there. It's so...sad, really. I did my best to bring some comfort to these folk with my guitar, but you need a whole lot more than a stringed instrument to make a real difference. Ain't that right, Markham?"
The Baali is snapped out of his worried stupor, "Hm? Yes, I guess so. What were you saying?" he's so lost in thought. His Touchstone is the only one he's currently thinking about.
Burt queries, "You read the 'Dark Alliance' series by Gary Webb, Markham? It's damn good journalism, not that sensationalized yellow tabloid shit."
"Oh, yes. I'm familiar with it. I'm also...skeptical of a lot its claims, if I'm being completely honest with you, Burt. To me, it just feels oversimplified and...a bit far-fetched and lacking." He says this while recalling the articles he read on his bulky work computer during some free time in the office.
Diego scratches the back of his head and takes Burt's side, "Well, I've...heard of it from some busters on the block. The CIA doing shit like that doesn't surprise me at all, hermano. The only surprise is why it took so long for us to learn about this."
Markham counters, "It's a lot more...complicated than that, Diego. I've read the series twice- I was bored- other outlets have pretty much refuted most of it, anyway. Reputed outlets like The Los Angeles Times, The New York Times, The Washington Post. They wouldn't necessarily lie."
It would appear that some stories are too true to be told, even too true for the nave Mr. Reed over here.
Markham presses his lips into thin line, "Agree to disagree?"
The Baali Neonate has still got some misplaced bliss; he's far too trusting of the system he's been working in and for. Some of that old middle class left-liberal idealism still sticks to him.
Sure, he's thorough, careful, and diligent in his work at the SEC, but he still has yet to see the ugly and harsh reality of Y2K America.
Burt drifts off into talking more about his travels throughout the United States, "Going to South Central LA really put things into perspective, ya know? After that, I went over to Tallahassee, then to Austin," he grins widely.
Diego nods along, "Yeah, wow, that's pretty cool!"
The 3 (well, mainly Burt and Diego) talk about the goings-on and whatnot. Eventually, the Gangrel inquires, "So, Burt, tell me more about yourself."
The Baali rock star nervously chuckles at that open-ended query, "Whoa, hey, wow...that--that's a pretty broad question, Diego." He taps his fingers on his knee and sighs, "I--I don't know where to begin, really."
Markham speaks up, "Well, he's a rock star. Well, was a rock star. He's been in the scene since...the 1950s, I think."
Diego lightly smacks Burt, "You ever meet Elvis or anyone famous?"
Burt plainly nods and smiles a little, "Oh, yeah, heh. I ran into him...and a few others over the years- Bob Dylan, Bruce Springsteen, Pete Seeger, good ol' Woody Guthrie...shit, I've met a lot of 'em over the years. Damn." He turns his head aside and silently stares off into the distance.
Deep down, he knows that he not only comes BEFORE such folk, but also outlasts them as well. This fact nags at him. If anything, it kinda makes him feel worse.
Immortality ain't all grand and Burt's been around for a long-ass time. Not as long as Elders have, but long enough to make anyone's jaw drop.
From there, Burt explains, "Well, after the Civil War, I found myself at the Louisiana Bayou...the place where I'd eventually be Embraced by my Sire." He pauses, looks around, and sighs deeply.
Diego queries, "Who was your Sire? Are you close?"
Burt quickly clicks his tongue, "Not by a longshot, kid. Like Markham over here, I...see glimpses of her...face. But I can't remember anything beyond a blurry visage standing over me. She looked like a runaway slave, or at least that's what I assume she is or was. After getting turned, I found out this book."
He pauses, sighs, and proceeds, "It was some...Noddist tome. Crazy stuff, honestly. It explained a lot about Unlife, Kindred, the Beast, and the Blood. But, it placed a special emphasis on our Bloodline- the Baali. Truth be told, I kinda see why they call us Demons, y'know?"
Diego nods in understanding, "Yeah, I know." The Gangrel looks at Markham and asks, "What do you think about all this, homes?"
Markham shrugs indifferently, "I don't care much for any of that stuff about my...Bloodline, Diego."
Diego's eyebrows shoot up, "Heh, figures. So um...what did you do after your Embrace, Burt? Did you try to find her, yo--your Sire, I mean? Did you ever find out who she might be??"
Burt moves some of his hair away from his eyes and answers, "Oh, yeah, I tried finding her, alright. After reading that damn Noddist book, I went all over the place, looking for some answers. I even went to New Orleans, which was like the center of this...Baali...Coven, I guess. I met some other members of the Bloodline, but no one ever heard of her or anyone matching her description."
"Is New Orleans still a Baali center? I know some busters from there," Diego mentions.
Burt simply shrugs, "I don't know. Maybe. It's been a while since I've been there."
Markham excuses himself for a moment. Diego and Burt continue talking about this and that. If anything, the Feral is genuinely interested in learning about the Baali's long and (undoubtedly) interesting Unlife.
When Markham is seemingly out of earshot, Diego leans forward and whispers, "So, how exactly did those Sabbat putos find you? Y'know, whatever happened before Markham's Embrace and all that?"
Burt smiles weakly, "Well, they weren't exactly the most...subtle bunch, were they? Then again, I was actually sold out...by my fuckin' bandmate."
"WHOA!"
"Easy, easy. Lemme explain..."
Some time before the Sabbat unleashed waves of Wights on Burt, he had a bandmate named Kristoff. He was also Baali, but "younger" (in terms of Generation). The duo played quite a few gigs, got decently famous around the area, and toured here and there.
They even had some good times together, too (especially with the groupies). Burt trusted Kristoff and thought him to be an OK guy. They didn't always see eye-to-eye on certain matters, but they were close enough.
Until Kristoff and Burt had a falling out owing to "creative differences". Kristoff wanted to make music that was banal, sanitized, and anodyne.
"All he was thinking about was chart-toppers and dollar signs. Hmph."
Burt, on the other hand, wanted something more substantive and meaningful, partly because of his experiences in the American Civil War and partly because of what he read in that Noddist book.
After that nasty falling out, Burt went solo while Kristoff continued on with his career. In hindsight, Burt should've seen it coming. Kristoff had been getting more and more agitated with Burt's fame and success.
Burt bitterly remarks, "As clear as my conscience was...and still is, nothing in the country that I fought for destroys an artist faster than success."
Diego's jaw is slightly agape, "Whoa."
"Hmm, yeah. I flew too close to the sun and attracted attention- the wrong kind of attention. I was in Greenridge, Markham's town, for a small gig. Word of mouth only. Somehow, they found out and well, the rest you already know."
Diego solemnly nods his head, "Yeah, yeah. Wow, that is...whoa. Where's Kristoff now?"
Burt bitterly laughs, "Son of a bitch changed his name, went underground in the 80s and reemerged last year." There's a well-hidden anger in Burt's words.
"Are you gonna hunt him down and make him pay?"
"Tch, nah. He'll weave his own noose soon enough. You know what they say: 'Living well is the best revenge'. Besides, his music won't last long. He goes after trends, not what's bubbling in people's hearts. Same old shit with a different note. He's a 1-trick pony through and through."
Diego incredulously asks, "So, what's his name now?"
Burt answers, "He goes by the name 'Sven'. Creative stage names were NEVER his forte. I've heard of porn stars with more clever stage names than that."
Diego laughs and Burt joins in. They look over at Markham, who is still in the kitchen, making a phone call. He's looking out the window, his eyes fixed on something. He looks lost and distressed.
He's deep in thought, worried sick about Jamie.
However, he calls his boss, Clifford, and waits for him to pick up. He does, eventually.
The boss man sounds groggy, "Cli--Clifford Wright speaking."
Markham clears his throat, "It's me."
Clifford sniffs a few times, "Oh, Markham. Hey...hey. How's everything down in sunny Flimont City? It's been in the news lately- a lot."
"It's all going fine here, sir. The investigation is..."
Clifford lifts an eyebrow waiting for a continuation. When he doesn't receive one, he prompts his subordinate, "Yes?"
"It's...going well," Markham lamely finishes.
"Well, I'm glad to hear that. So, what's up?"
"Just checking in. I should, hopefully, be wrapping up soon."
"That's good to hear! Like I said the last time we spoke, the Chairman is interested in meeting you. Once you're done, we're ready to make a move against that city."
"I...understand, sir. I'll do my best down here."
"Good, good. You always do, Markham. You're the best of us."
"How's Jamie keeping?"
Clifford lets out a long sigh, "She took part in yet another protest and she had a...sticker on her computer that had to be taken off. It's just the way it is, Markham."
Markham says nothing. He simply waits for Clifford to go on, "It's hard being her boss, Markham. Sometimes, it feels like I'm dealing with an irresponsible teenager or something."
Markham counters, "She's just exercising her First Amendment rights, Clifford. She's well within her rights to protest and express her opinions about what's going on. It's not illegal."
Clifford groans, "I know that, Markham. Look, I don't wanna talk about it anymore. I'm tired. Let's just...move on, OK? How are things with you? How's your health?"
"It's...fine. All good."
Clifford weakly smiles, "I better see a good tan on you when you get back, haha. Is there anything else?"
"No. I think that's it. Just err...promise to keep an eye on Jamie for me, OK?"
Clifford exhales sharply and shakes his head slowly, "I'll do what I can, but only because YOU'RE asking. Take care, Markham. We look forward to seeing you back here soon."
"Yep. Bye." The Baali hangs up and lingers around the kitchen for a moment, his gray eyes absently wandering around.
Markham puts his phone back in his pocket and returns to the living room. He sits down next to Diego and stares at the floor. The Feral notices how despondent he looks.
He gives Markham a pat on the back and says, "Hey, homes, what's up?"
Markham mutters, "Nah, nothing. Listen, as much as I'd love to sit around and chat, I got some work to take care of."
Diego nods in understanding, "Oh, hey, hey. Absolutely."
He springs up and asks Burt, "Hey, Burt, you ever been in a lowrider?"
Burt grins and responds, "Kid, I was around when the Chicanos came up with that. Hell yeah, I've been in a lowrider! But, if you're offering, then I won't say no."
Diego excitedly claps his hands together, "Sweet! Let's go then!" he motions for Burt to follow him.
Markham silently goes down to get his things. He sets up his laptop at the kitchen table, plugs in the ethernet cable, and starts working on his reports. He has a lot to go through, so he starts with what's most important.
However, it does take time since the dial-up at Diego's Haven isn't exactly the best or the fastest. After a few minutes, the connection gets cut. Markham sighs deeply, leans back in his chair, and rubs his tired eyes.
Diego and Burt go for a cruise around the city. Diego is quite excited about driving a lowrider with the cool Baali rock star. He feels like he's in one of those old music videos.
In the car, Burt applies some black nail polish on his fingernails and blows on them. After a few seconds, he puts the small bottle back in his pocket and asks, "So, tell me more about...yourself."
Diego shrugs, "What's there to tell? I'm an immigrant from El Salvador. I'm Clan Gangrel, Embraced back in the 80s and I've been riding around this barrio ever since."
Burt sticks his hand out, the air passing through the gaps in between his fingers, "Vatos in the barrio, huh?"
Diego laughs and nods his head, "Yeah, somethin' like that, hahahah! And the Gangrel 'round here are good people, y'know. We--we can do a lotta good here, homes."
"I'm sure you can. And what about your lady?"
"Marisol's nice, yeah. I see myself having a future with her, y'know? She works really hard at her fancy office job. It doesn't pay much, but it's just enough for our most immediate needs."
"Hmm."
A sedan stops besides the lowrider and Burt's black nail polish is visible to the family inside. A woman grimaces at his fingernails while the 2 kids in the back point and giggle amongst each other.
The man in the driver's seat rolls up his window and avoids making eye contact.
Burt looks over and simply winks at the family of 4.
The woman's eyebrows shoot up in surprise. The man angrily shakes her head and speeds up, driving away from the lowrider.
Burt remarks, "Prudes. Even after all these fuckin' years."
After about half a mile, Diego does the thing that lowriders are known for: the car bounces up and down and Burt laughs heartily, prompting Diego to do it again.
He gladly does so, of course, and the car bounces up and down, up and down, and up and down. This goes on for a few seconds until they stop at yet another red light.
A few more cars stop besides them and the occupants look over at the lowrider with a mixture of confusion and amusement.
At this time, the night roads are more desolate than usual. Shops and nearby eateries are either shuttered or in the process of closing for the night. In the distance, sirens blare loudly as a few gunshots break out.
Diego winces and loses control of the steering wheel. Burt's hand quickly darts forward to grab it and steady it.
The Gangrel sighs and mutters, "It's just...what--what was that?" his eyes are wider and the hairs on his arm are standing up straight.
Burt looks behind them, "Dunno. I think we better keep the stunts to a minimum. I don't want you getting into trouble on my account. There's always other lowriders, there's always other nights, and there's always other roads to travel."
Diego nods, "Yeah. There sure are." He says this in a very quiet voice.
The 2 vampires spend some time silently cruising around the city, making sure not to draw too much attention to themselves.
A few hours later...
Diego heads off to take care of some stuff. Burt plays a few gigs he got booked at. Markham continues working on his investigation.
In another part of this city, Sheriff Velma checks to make sure that everything is set up for tonight's Primogen Council meeting. She does a full perimeter sweep, checks all entrances twice, and even uses a handheld bug-scanning device to check for any electronic listening devices.
She finds none. Thankfully. The Sheriff wants everything to go smoothly.
The Prince, on the other hand, sits inside the restaurant's main area, 1 leg folded over the other. He's in the middle of an animated conversation with a bald, muscular man in his 50s.
The man's wearing a tweed suit and smoking a fat cigar. The Prince is dressed in a fine suit, his hair neatly combed back.
Prince Antonio asks, "So, what else is new, Lenny?"
That would be none other than Leonard "Lenny" Grayson, the Ventrue owner of The Golden Crown Cuisine. He takes a long drag of his cigar and blows out a puff of smoke, "Not much, Tony. Same old, same old."
The Prince smiles and pats him on the shoulder, "C'mon, Lenny, there must be something else going on! You branching out?"
Lenny grins and shrugs, "Well, now that you've mentioned it. I've been thinking about expanding, maybe getting a few branches open in other cities; Ventrue-friendly cities, that is."
The Prince smooths out his tie and replies, "You know I'm always here to help you with that, Lenny. But, you gotta gimme something in return."
Lenny nods and smiles, "I'll keep that in mind, Tony. Thanks." He takes another puff of his cigar. He sounds very gruff.
The Prince tilts his head aside and asks, "You haven't forgotten, right?"
"Forgotten what?"
Prince Antonio's face tics slightly, "The 117 large you owe me...plus interest."
Lenny lazily waves his hand, some smoke trailing from his cigar, "Pfft, yeah, yeah. I'll get to it. Soon."
The Prince chuckles and shakes his head, "You better. You're already late on your payments. If you don't pay up soon, I'm gonna have to take drastic measures."
Lenny scoffs and looks away, "Yeah, yeah. Of course, there's our...agreement."
Prince Antonio's eyebrows shoot up and he nods, "Hmm, yeah. I do actually need a few skulls busted, heh. I might have a few who need to be reminded of their place in my city."
Leonard makes a show of cracking his knuckles and nodding, "I'm your man, Tony. Always. Just give me the word and I'll take care of it."
The Prince puts his hands together and grins, "Good, good. I knew I could count on you, Lenny. Do as your Prince says, and he'll forgive your debt. I'm a forgiving kinda guy, haha!"
"'Course you are, Tony. How's Velma doing?"
The Ventrue Prince clicks his tongue and casually responds, "Eh, she's going along fine. I give her a wide berth to do her thing. She's a good Sheriff. I don't wanna lose her."
Lenny chuckles, "Yeah, she's a tough one. I still can't believe that she got the job 10 years after her Embrace. Ah, well, good for her, I guess."
Prince Antonio side-eyes his fellow Blue Blood, "Something you implying there, Leonard?"
"No. I'm just saying. Making an observation, don't read too much into it, Tony."
Prince Antonio explains, "Yeah, well her Sire, the former Sheriff, got Beckoned away. To where? I dunno. She was the...natural choice. You know how us Ventrue are. Who our Sires are carries a ton of weight."
Lenny dryly says, "Mm-hmm."
Prince Antonio does a wide gesture and goes on, "Yeah, this city was a gift to me. My Sire saw fit to leave it my very capable hands, and a 100 years later, here I am. Still here, despite it all."
Lenny simply nods, "Uh-huh."
He growls and aggressively adds, "Clan Ventrue doesn't lose. We win, we succeed, and we conquer over all that stands in our way."
The Prince concurs, "Yeah, no arguing there with ya, buddy. I've done a lot for this city. You know that, Lenny. You've seen it all firsthand."
Lenny exhales sharply and stands up, "Yeah, yeah, I have. But, the tail end of the 1960s was a long time ago. I'd like to think that I've come a long way since then. Up, preferably."
Prince Antonio agrees, "Of course you have! I was the one who authorized your Embrace, heh. Don'tcha ever forget that, capeesh?"
Lenny smirks and shakes his head, "Capeesh. Yeah, I know. I hope the restaurant's to your liking. That place you call Elysium is a fucking dump. I'd demolish it if I were you. Put up a new building in its place."
The Prince sighs and shakes his head, "It's a matter of tradition, Lenny. I can't just destroy it. I mean, I wanna, but there are objections. Velma and a few others have been trying to get me to renovate that dusty old place."
Lenny laughs and rolls his eyes, "Yeah right. Nobody in Flimont City's gonna wanna go to a fucking snoozefest opera or sissy play or whatever. It's just not gonna happen, Tony. Not in this city, not with this type of crowd. It's time to move on."
Prince Antonio leans forward and narrows his eyes, "I'll consider it. But you got a point there, Lenny. People in this city don't really give much of a shit about...that stuff, huh?"
Lenny scoffs and blows some smoke, "You bet your ass they don't. They don't call this fucking place 'Wall Street 2.0' for nothing, Tony."
The Prince chuckles and nods, "Heh, yeah. I guess you're right."
He gets up and adjusts his green tie, "Well, I'll see you around, Lenny. We'll talk more about your debts later."
Lenny waves his hand and dismissively says, "Yeah, yeah, sure. Just tell me who you needs a good roughing up. After I'm done, we'll adjust the difference."
Before Lenny can go somewhere else, the Prince inquires, "And how IS the place doing, huh? I mean...the--the prices are a bit high, don't you think?"
Lenny shrugs and answers, "People will pay for quality, Tony. You know that. And I...need quality in my damn restaurant."
Prince Antonio's face twitches and he slowly nods, "Yeah, yeah, of course. See ya around, Lenny!"
Lenny grunts and leaves. He walks over to his Ghoul, Janus, and whispers something in his ear. Janus is wearing a white suit with a purple cravat.
Janus nods and leaves. Lenny goes to check on his restaurant fixtures; he adjusts a few and cracks a smile of satisfaction.
Prince Antonio sits down and waits for the Primogen Council meeting to start. He doesn't have to wait long. The Ventrue Sheriff enters the restaurant, her face looking as stoic as ever.
She plainly declares, "All clear. No signs of trouble, no loiterers, no nothing."
The Prince nods and replies, "Good, good! Now, we just gotta wait for the others to show up."
Sheriff Velma curtly nods and takes her seat at the table. She shoots Lenny a subtle glance of contempt. He returns it with a smug wink. She rolls her eyes and sighs deeply.
Soon enough, the other Primogen arrive. Clarice the Malkavian Primogen walks in and takes a look around. She mutters something incomprehensible, courteously greets everyone, and takes her seat.
She's dressed in wide-legged pants, cream-colored flats, and a simple black blouse.
After 30 or so minutes, Dr. Collins the Tzimisce Primogen strides in with Brock at his side. The Ghoul looks slightly on-edge. He takes a seat near the back, away from the rest.
Dr. Collins takes his seat closer and crosses his legs. He's wearing a blue suit with a red tie. He looks decently presentable and he takes off his thin-framed glasses and wipes them with a handkerchief.
The Prince calls the good doctor and asks him the same old tired question, "Hey, doc! Any news on Galeb?"
Dr. Collins stifles a sigh, clenches his jaw, and shakes his head, "No."
Prince Antonio narrows his eyes at the Stoker, "That all you gotta say, wise guy, huh? 'No'?"
The Tzimisce doctor lifts his chin a little, "Were you expecting a...different answer? I haven't heard anything and it'd be nice if people would stop asking me about him. Truth be told, it's getting a bit...annoying."
Whoa.
Prince Antonio mirthlessly chuckles, "Oh, really? Getting a little too annoying, huh? Well, that's just too bad, doc. I want Galeb back. I want him found. And remember, don't get too comfortable in your position."
Dr. Collins glares at the Prince and responds, "I never even asked to be made Primogen in the first place."
The Ventrue Prince dismissively waves, "Tsk. Well, it's too late to back out now. Velma tells me that you got a storage unit of sorts. What's in it?"
Dr. Collins shifts in his seat and answers, "Just some stuff of mine, that's all." He does NOT want to talk about what REALLY lies in there, especially what (particularly, who) is behind that false wall.
The Prince looks over at Sheriff Velma, who is absentmindedly browsing the menu card on the table. She looks up from it and shrugs, "You know how Tzimisce are about their...things, Prince Antonio."
Prince Antonio scratches his forehead with his thumb, "Hrmf. Fine. Hoard your junk or whatever it is you got, but if I find out it's something I don't like..." he trails off, leaving the ominous threat hanging in the air.
Dr. Collins takes a deep breath and exhales slowly. He wants to get this over with as soon as possible. He still has patients to see and he had to move their appointments to be here tonight.
He doesn't like moving appointments; once an appointment has been set, it should remain set until the patient is seen to. It's just good professional sense.
The good doctor hates doing this to his patients (the people who rely on him), but he knows that being a Primogen comes with certain...responsibilities, certain expectations.
He also knows that the Prince is more than willing to make his Unlife an Unliving hell if he doesn't do as he says.
Brock, on the other hand, is just glad that he isn't being singled out by the Prince. Especially considering what happened last time.
He sinks lower into his seat and avoids eye contact with anyone.
Welp, no such luck. Prince Antonio hollers out to the Ghoul, "Hey, fairy!"
Yikes.
Brock rolls his eyes and blows a raspberry. He pretends not to hear that homophobic remark (he's heard worse) and continues to look away. He tries to ignore the Prince's loud voice.
Prince Antonio loudly repeats himself, "Hey, fruity! Yeah, you! Get your ass over here!" he points at Brock.
The Ghoul sighs and gets up. He reluctantly walks over to the table and stands in front of the Prince.
Prince Antonio leans back in his chair and asks, "How's it going, huh? Keepin' well?"
Brock nods, "Mm-hmm."
Dr. Collins is powerless in such a situation, believe it or not. The last thing he wants to do is run afoul of the Prince.
The Prince smiles and puts his hands together, "Good, good. So, uh...you're gay, right?" he looks around and grins, "What, no one else here's gonna call him out on it?"
Brock stifles a groan, "What does that have to do with anything? Besides, it's who I am, who I've always been, and who I always will be. There's nothing wrong with it."
The Prince scoffs, "Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yap, yap, yap. Sit your ass back down...Ghoul."
That...could have gone worse, all things considered.
Brock shakes his head, shoots a quick glance to his Domitor, and walks back to his seat. He sits down and waits for the meeting to begin. He hopes that he won't be called upon again.
Ever.
Prince Antonio loudly clears his throat and looks around. He turns to Sheriff Velma and asks, "Velma, you got anything to report?"
The Sheriff looks at the menu and replies, "Nope. All quiet. But, there might be something. We'll get to it when Pedro arrives."
Speaking of...
After 10-ish minutes, the Gangrel Primogen rolls up in a shiny lowrider. He gets out, smooths out his clothes, and strides inside. He's wearing an unbuttoned shirt and loose jeans. He's also wearing a cap. He tips it at everyone and takes his seat.
Prince Antonio greets him, "Pedro! Good to see you. How's everything?"
Pedro shrugs, "It's all good, hermano! All good. Hey, sup, doc! Clarice!"
The 2 other Primogen greet him. Dr. Collins is relieved that the Prince's attention has shifted away from him and Brock. He's still pissed about that, but he's glad that the Prince isn't focused on him anymore.
Prince Antonio calls out, "OK, OK, let's get this started. First things first: any news on Galeb?" he looks at Dr. Collins.
Again.
Dr. Collins's expression hardens, but he does his best to maintain his composure, "Like I said: no."
The Malkavian Primogen shakes her head, "I haven't heard a thing since you last asked that question, my Prince."
Pedro clicks his tongue, "Nah. Nothing on my end. Maybe we should just come to terms with the fact that he's...gone. Beckoned off somewhere else, who knows?"
Prince Antonio shakes his head, "No, no, no! That ain't happening. I WANT him back. I NEED him back! This damn city needs him back."
Dr. Collins half-heartedly says, "We'll keep our eyes peeled. I'll talk to the other Tzimisce soon. No promises, though. No guarantees we'll find him, either. But, we're ready to do what needs to be done." The dryness and insincerity in his tone is bleedingly obvious.
Prince Antonio smiles, "Good, good. I knew I could count on you, doc. I know you'll do your best to find him. If you don't, well..." he trails off again.
The Prince moves on to other matters, "So, Pedro, what's going on with the Gangrel in this city? You keeping low?"
Pedro confidently responds, "'Course! The 5th Street Cholos know how to uphold the Masquerade and all those other fancy Traditions, too. Ain't nobody gonna mess with us anymore. I've made sure of it. I'm keeping my people in line...as best as I can."
Prince Antonio nods, "Good, good. What about you, Clarice? You Lunatics playing nice or do I have to get the straitjackets out, huh?"
("Lunatic" is a more...derisive Nickname for the Malkavian Clan).
Clarice plainly answers, "Come now, Prince Antonio. In all our time in this vast metropolis, the Clan Of The Moon hasn't so much as raised a single finger against you or anyone else in your inner circle. We've been perfectly civil."
Prince Antonio rolls his eyes and mutters, "Yeah, yeah, yeah. You say that, but I still got my eye on you crazies. Don't think I don't know about that uh...what do you call it? The something something? Velma, help me out here."
The Sheriff says, "The Malkavian Madness Network. Malk only, and it's all in their heads, hmm. I don't even wanna know half of what goes on in there, but I'm pretty sure they're not doing anything improper."
Clarice calmly explains, "It's merely a means for us to communicate with each other. It's a way for us to stay connected and informed. There's nothing nefarious about it. I assure you, my Prince."
Prince Antonio taps his fingers on the table and mutters, "Uh-huh. So you say. So you say. Hey, Pedro? Does your British Brujah buddy have my fuckin' money yet?"
Pedro is taken aback and his eyebrows go up a little, "Um...no. Clive was pretty clear the last time we...err...spoke. He can pay, but it's gotta be more reasonable, man! A million bucks is--"
The Outlander pauses for a moment and stammers, "--it's unreasonable!"
The Prince dismissively scoffs, "That filthy fucking Anarch was operating in MY goddamn Domain for who-knows-how-long! Those fucking Punks owe me for all the trouble they've caused! It's only fair that I get repaid in full, and if he doesn't pay up, then I'm gonna have to take drastic measures. And you don't want that. None of you do."
Pedro looks away and shakes his head, "I'll...talk to him. He's not exactly happy about it, but I'll talk to him. I'll try to convince him to compromise, m--maybe meet you halfway through?"
The Prince spreads his hands and plainly states, "Hey, I don't care if that slab has to rip an elephant to get me my dough, but he better cough it up soon. I'm a patient man, but I got limits to my patience, capeesh?"
Pedro heaves a sigh and nods, "Yeah, yeah, I understand. I'll...do what I can. I'll try."
Prince Antonio's face twitches and he curtly nods, "You better."
He turns to Dr. Collins and asks, "So, doc, what about you? How's the clinic doing? Is it treating you well? You treating our food source well?"
Dr. Collins's jaw clenches and he tersely answers, "It's fine. And I wouldn't necessary call my patients...that. I know what we are and what we have to do, but...I'd prefer if we didn't refer to them as 'food sources'."
He stares right at the Prince and continues, "They're people. Living, breathing people. With hopes, dreams, fears, and jobs. They're not just...food for us to take however or whenever we please. We have to strive to be better than that."
Prince Antonio waves his hand, "Yeah, yeah, whatever. I'm just asking you to keep 'em healthy, doc."
"That's what I do," Dr. Collins replies in a very passive-aggressive manner, albeit very subtly.
The Prince turns to his Sheriff and calls her out, "Hey, Velma, you said you got something to share with us?"
Sheriff Velma steps to the front and calmly responds, "Yes. You've all seen the news regarding the recent spate of murders in this city, correct?"
Clarice gulps and nods her head, "Grim business. 3 men and 1 child murdered along with 2 police officers. Horrible, just horrible."
Sheriff Velma concurs, "Indeed. It's been a real pain in the ass trying to keep things under control, but we've managed. I've got some good news: I think I've found the killers."
Prince Antonio's eyebrows shoot up, "You have? Who is it?"
The Sheriff holds up her hand and answers, "We're not sure. But, I have strong reason to believe that it was the work of Thin-Bloods. I know those...fucking Weaklings are in this city. Still clinging on the edges, like gum under a new pair of Pradas."
She could not be any more wrong than she is.
Dr. Collins uncomfortably shifts in his seat and awkwardly clears his throat. Pedro looks taken aback.
Clarice simply shakes her head and waggles her finger, "Ms. DuPont, not every tragedy or atrocity ought to be attributed to the Kindred...or other supernatural beings for that matter. It's cheap, vulgar, reductive, and downright crass."
The Sheriff scoffs and glowers at the Malk lady, "Firstly, it's Sheriff Velma to you. Pray tell then, who else could it be? A group of mortals? Yeah, right. It's almost always them. Always."
Prince Antonio interjects, "So, Velma, you got any leads?"
He leans forward and asks, "And what exactly are you investigating over here?"
The Sheriff admits, "It's something I'm looking into, but I've got a few suspects in mind."
Clarice points out, "Those horrible murders took place when the sun was still up, Miss--Sheriff Velma. How, pray tell, do you explain that, hmm?"
The Blue Blood Sheriff claps back, "Thin-Bloods. Those worthless shits can still walk in the sun, unlike us. It's them. It's gotta be them."
She's really hellbent on pinning those murders on the Thin-Bloods; she hates them THAT MUCH, apparently. Or maybe she just needs a reason to destroy more Thin-Bloods?
And, Sheriff Velma DuPont has slain her fair share of Thin-Bloods in this Domain alone. Many have fallen either by her hand or into an elaborate trap she laid out for them.
Prince Antonio rubs his chin and adds, "And they're so weak, they can't even put up a fight. Yeah, y'know, the more I think of it, it's just like them to do something like this."
Dr. Collins shakes his head and sighs deeply, "I don't think it's them. Clarice also has a point. Besides, Thin-Bloods are usually too weak to do something like this. There's also the fact that the news isn't all too clear on who the victims are, apart from those 2 cops."
He sits up and adds, "We know too much about the cops, but not nearly enough about those 4 other people who were murdered the other day. For all we know, this could've been mortals all the way down the line, no vampiric involvement needed."
The Prince scoffs, "Oh, c'mon, doc. You can't possibly be defending those worthless goddamn fucking Weaklings, can you? I mean, I get it, you see everybody like your...special patients or whatever, but they're nothing but trouble."
Clarice leans forward and pointedly inquires, "And, how exactly are Thin-Bloods trouble? This hatred of the Duskborn seems quite, dare I say, irrational and ill-informed. Why the vitriol, Sheriff Velma?"
The Sheriff glares daggers at the Seer and answers, "Because they're a threat to us all. They're not like us. They're weaker than us. They're less than us. They're not worthy of being called Kindred. And, if we let them live, they'll just cause trouble and multiply like fucking rabbits."
The venom drips from every word uttered.
Pedro joins in, "Hey, whoa, slow down, Sheriff V. I know we're all obligated to end any Thin-Bloods we come across, and I'll go along with that, but you gotta give us a reason why. I mean, I get it, they're not as strong as us, but that's not a good enough reason for me or some of my fellow Gangrel."
The Prince angrily snaps, "Because they're weak! They're pathetic! They're nothing! And, if we don't end 'em, they'll just cause trouble for us all!"
Dr. Collins narrows his eyes, "Somehow, I get the feeling that that's not all."
Sheriff Velma sighs and steeples her fingers together, "Because they're a sign, you short-sighted idiots. A sign of Gehenna."
Clarice gasps, her eyes widen, and she begins mouthing off, "Gehenna. The end. The--the time when our Antediluvians will rise from their slumber, their Torpor, and devour their descendants. All Cainites. Terrible wars, upheavals, and--and destruction will follow in their wake."
The Sheriff nods, "Exactly. And, Thin-Bloods are the harbingers of Gehenna. If we let them live, if we let them persist, they'll bring about the end of us all."
Dr. Collins shakes his head and scoffs, "That's ridiculous. Gehenna is nothing more than a myth, a legend, a scary story to deter Fledglings into behaving themselves. There's a 1000 different interpretations of what 'Gehenna' actually is. Some even say it's cyclical in nature."
Pedro shrugs, "Well, I mean, yeah, but--"
The Tzimisce doctor goes on, "But, what? There's no concrete evidence that ANY of that is real. Research into the matter has produced...mixed results, to put it mildly."
With fear in his eyes, Pedro asks, "But what about what happened back in 1999? The Week Of Nightmares and all that shit?? You know what happened to the Ravnos Clan cuz of that shit, huh?" he wildly gesticulates and points at the good doctor.
The Stoker crosses his arms and replies, "It was a horrible, awful thing, yes. But, it was an anomaly. A 1-time thing. Nothing more. I'm sure of it. It's not likely to happen again."
Prince Antonio raises his chin, "A real wise guy, huh? What happened back in '99 was a warning for us all. I've run this city for a 100 goddamn years, and I ain't abdicating any time soon. So, that's why I give Velma the permission to do what she has to do, capeesh?"
Dr. Collins clenches his jaw and mutters, "So, it's a desperate way of holding onto power, then? Is that it?"
Sheriff Velma steps in and sternly warns, "Watch it, Flesh-Shaper. You don't EVER, and I mean EVER, talk to the Prince like that or make those kinds of insinuations. I've been by his side for 50 years and when he says 'jump', the only thing out of that mouth of yours should be...?"
She smugly folds her arms, taps her foot on the ground, and waits for an answer.
Dr. Collins looks around. He adjusts his glasses and tells the 2 Ventrue what they wanna hear, "How high and how far, my liege."
The Sheriff smiles and nods, "Good. Now, we're all on the same page here. As for Thin-Bloods, I've got my methods, my ways. But, it's gonna take some time to clean up the mess. And, it's gonna take a lot of resources, too."
The Prince leans back and shrugs, "See, she's good at what she does. That's why I leave her to it, heh."
Lenny has been listening to bits and pieces. He chimes in, "I don't personally believe in any of that Gehenna shit, but we can't have Thin-Bloods stinking up the place, hahahaha!"
Prince Antonio laughs along, "Yeah, the Ventrue got a reputation to maintain."
Dr. Collins refuses to back down, "So, is that it, then?! Are we just gonna keep killing them? Killing people because they're...weak?! Because they're different?!" he looks at Brock when mentioning that last part.
Pedro sighs and shakes his head, "Hey, doc, c'mon, man. It's not personal, alright? We just gotta do what we gotta do. They're just Thin-Bloods. It's not like we're destroying our own or anything. And uh...it's the Prince's orders and you know what the Traditions say."
Dr. Collins reluctantly concedes, "Hmph. Fine. You win."
He pauses for a moment and pleads, "But, I'm begging you to let reason and rationality prevail over prejudices and unfounded fears based on misread and misinterpreted texts. Gehenna is NOT real, well not in the way that you people think it is."
The Sheriff rolls her eyes and dismissively waves, "Whatever. You can keep telling yourself that all you want, but it won't change anything. It won't change the fact that the Mercurians are still a threat to us all. And, as Sheriff of Flimont City, I have a damn job to do."
She firmly adds, "Upholding the Traditions of the Camarilla, enforcing them, and keeping the peace in this Domain is MY responsibility and I take it very seriously. You'd do well to remember that, Dr. Collins."
Prince Antonio nods and agrees, "Yeah, she's right. And, I'm glad she's doing such a good job at it. These past 50 years have been a breeze thanks to you...Velma DuPont. I had my initial doubts, but you were quick to prove me wrong."
The Sheriff faintly smiles and respectfully bows her head, "Thank you, my Prince. I'm honored to serve you. And I look forward to many more years under your Praxis."
The Prince soaks up that compliment like the snooty Ventrue that he his. He tugs on his suit jacket and smugly grins, "Of course you are. I am the Prince, after all. And, I expect nothing but the best from my Sheriff. You've done good work so far, Velma. I'll make sure you're rewarded for it in due time."
Sheriff Velma nods and replies, "I'm grateful for that, my Prince. I'm grateful for this opportunity."
Clarice mutters, "Oh, get a room already. It's embarrassing."
Dr. Collins snickers. Pedro does his best to hold his snicker back. Brock, on the other hand, giggles and laughs.
The Prince angrily glares at him and asks, "What's so funny, huh?"
Brock shrugs and answers, "Nothing, my Prince, my liege, haha. Just something that popped into my head, that's all."
Prince Antonio clicks his tongue and shakes his head, "Yeah, yeah, whatever. So, anything else to report? Anyone?"
Mumbles and mutters all around the room.
Prince Antonio gets up, pats his pants, and announces, "OK, then. Meeting adjourned. Now, get the fuck outta here."
Everyone leaves. The Primogen Council meeting has concluded.
Dr. Collins and Brock promptly leave after saying quick goodbyes to Pedro and Clarice. The Tzimisce doctor has decided to let Brock in on that...secret in his storage unit.
So, they take a drive there.
Back in the restaurant, Prince Antonio is speaking with Pedro and Clarice. The 2 Primogens are standing while the Prince is sitting down and leaning back.
The Prince asks, "So, what's going on with you 2? Anything I need to know about?"
Clarice shakes her head, "It's all quiet on my end. No new entries or exits, no requests for Embraces, nothing. I'm just here to represent the interests of my Clan within this Council."
Prince Antonio nods, "Good, good. And, Pedro? What about you? How's your territory keeping?"
Pedro answers, "It's going alright. We're keeping the Masquerade intact, and we're getting along with the rest of folk around town, but these last few nights haven't been easier...what with all the damn cops swarming the streets."
Sheriff Velma admonishes the Outlander, "You better tell your people to be on their best behavior, Pedro."
The Feral side-eyes her, "Are you implying something, Sheriff?"
Sheriff Velma lifts her finger and glowers daggers at him, "Don't even begin to go there. I'm not being racist, I'm just warning you...and your people to watch it out there. The cops are getting antsy and they're starting to crack down on everyone. Every. One."
Pedro shakes his head and sharply exhales, "Yeah, yeah, whatever. We'll be fine. The 5th Street Cholos are good at what we do. We made it this far. You can count on us, Sheriff V."
The Sheriff sighs and nods, "I hope so. Because I don't want a phone call an hour before sunrise."
Pedro reassures the Ventrue Sheriff, "We can handle ourselves, alright? We're Gangrel, we're survivors, we're strong. You can count on us."
Sheriff Velma folds her arms and tilts her head aside, "I'm not sure if that's a good thing or a bad thing."
Pedro smirks, "Oh, c'mon, Sheriff V. You know we're good at what we do!"
Clarice clears her throat. She waves goodbye, grabs her purse, and leaves. She has some stuff to take care of tonight.
Prince Antonio and Sheriff Velma exchange glances. They both shrug.
Pedro bids them farewell, "Well, I'm off. See ya around, Prince A, Sheriff V." He tips his cap at them and bolts off.
He catches up with Clarice and asks, "Hey, crazy night, huh?"
Clarice remarks, "It could've gone worse, all things considered. How are you keeping, darling?"
Pedro shrugs, "Eh, I'm fine. Just cruising, feeding, surviving, y'know how it is. You uh...busy tonight?"
Clarice pulls out a neatly-folded piece of paper from her purse. She unfolds it and nods, "As a matter of fact, yes. Grocery shopping, darling. My Ghoul has run out of toothpaste and he likes a very specific brand; he insists on it, actually."
Pedro chuckles, "You want me to drop you to the store?"
Clarice politely answers, "I think I'd prefer to give my legs a stretch, dear. But, thank you so much for the offer. I still have not forgotten that...ride you gave me a few nights back. The car bouncing up and down made my still heart act up a bit, haha!"
Pedro smiles, "Yeah, it does that, heh. No problem. Well, see ya around, Clarice."
Clarice curtly nods, "Indeed. Goodbye, Pedro."
The Seer heads off to the nearest grocery store. Pedro hops into his shiny ride and zooms off into the night. He decides to check in on some of his fellow Ferals and see how they're all holding up.
Meanwhile, Dr. Collins and Brock arrive at the storage unit.
Brock adjusts his mullet and asks, "So, what exactly are we doing all the way out here, doc?"
Dr. Collins unlocks the door and pushes it open. He walks inside and flicks the light switch. The lights flicker on and illuminate the room.
He replies, "I have something to show you. But...I want you to keep this between us, OK?"
Brock shrugs and picks up a nearby MAD Magazine. He turns the pages and chuckles at the comic strips, "Yeah, mm-hmm. Sure thing, doc. I can do that."
Dr. Collins walks over to the false wall and pulls it open. He walks into the secret room and beckons for Brock to follow him.
The Ghoul puts down the magazine and walks over to the Tzimisce doctor. He enters the room and gasps loudly.
His jaw hits the floor and his eyes widen in horror. He's stunned speechless when the doctor pulls the sheet off the body.
Brock stammers, "W--what the hell is this?! WHAT THE FUCK IS GOING ON HERE?!"
Dr. Collins looks away and quietly says, "I can explain."
Brock scoffs, "Explain?! Explain what?! This--this is fucked up, man! IF--IF anybody knew you--you had THIS in here, it'd be the END OF YOU! And where the hell would that leave me? What would I do?! Where would I go?! What would happen to--"
Dr. Collins puts his cold hands on Brock's tense shoulder and squeezes them a bit, "Easy, easy, calm down, Brock. Lower your voice. No need to shout or--or get all worked up. Everything's gonna be OK. I promise."
Brock shakes his head and yells, "No, it's not! This is bad, real bad! Why--why the hell do you have th--this in here?! Is--is this why you've been acting so weird lately?!"
Dr. Collins gulps, "Yes. I was...look, you're just a Ghoul. You wouldn't understand why I had to do what I had to. In time, you might, but right now all you have to know is that this is a secret. OUR secret. And we can't tell anyone about it. Not a soul. OK?"
Brock's face twitches and he reluctantly nods, "Yeah, yeah, fine. Whatever. But, you better not be doing anything else like this, doc. This is fucked up on SO MANY levels, dude! It's insane!"
The good doctor sighs, "I know, Brock. I know, but I had no other choice. For now, I just need you to trust me. You know that I care about you and about our Clan, right? I'd never let any harm, anything bad, befall us--"
Brock angrily interjects, "Is THAT how you're rationalizing this?! Seriously?! Shit! I--I'm worried about you!" he puts his hands on his head and pulls on his hair. He paces around the room, breathing heavily.
Dr. Collins walks over to him and tries to reassure him, "I'm sorry, Brock, but this is how it has to be. I had no choice."
Brock frowns, "What do you mean by that?"
Dr. Collins opens his mouth but decides against it. He simply shrugs and goes with half of the story, "Just that...it had to be done for--for all our sakes. It's complicated, Brock." He puts the sheet back on the body and sighs.
Brock slowly nods and mutters, "OK. I believe you, doc. Does--does anyone else know about this?"
"No, just you. I was actually thinking of roping Dr. Sarah in. I trust her and we've been friends for quite a while now."
"Hmmmph, yeah. Maybe you should, doc. This is...this is crazy, man. I never knew you'd have it in you to do something like THAT. Whoa, my whole conception of you as this mild-mannered doctor is kinda being challenged right now and I don't exactly like it."
"It's not a side of myself I'm proud of, but I did what had to be done." The doc pauses and adds, "And, I'd rather you not share this with anybody else, OK? If the Prince found out..." he trails off.
He really doesn't need to finish that sentence.
Brock sourly chuckles, "Yeah, I know. He'd have the Sheriff take your head off...or leave you out in the sun." The Ghoul shudders at the thought of his Domitor meeting Final Death in such a horrific manner.
Dr. Collins dryly nods, "Exactly. So, I'm gonna ask you again: please, PLEASE keep this between us."
"You don't gimme much of a choice, do ya? Fine. It's not like I got anyone to tell, anyways."
The Tzimisce doctor claps his hands together and puts on a more upbeat expression, "Thank you, Brock. Thank you. Now, let's get back to work. Now that I'm Primogen, I have extra responsibilities, some of which I'll be delegating to you."
Brock sighs deeply and straightens his back, "Figures. What kind of...responsibilities?"
"The usual that comes with being a Primogen's retainer. I'll need you to check on a few people, carry out some errands during the day, and other such things."
"Yeah, yeah, sure thing, doc. I think I can handle that. Anything else?" Brock asks, still feeling uncomfortable about the...body.
Dr. Collins thinks out loud, "I should really speak to Dr. Sarah sometime soon. Maybe even tell her...about...you know."
"Mm-hmm. How's she gonna react?"
Dr. Collins confidently answers, "She's a pretty levelheaded person; she'll understand. Provided my reasoning is airtight. I did..."
He stops and gestures to the body. He gulps and continues, "...this for the good of the Clan, for the good of Old Clan Tzimisce. For all our sakes."
Brock nods, "Uh-huh." He wants to say something, but he keeps it to himself. He doesn't wanna upset the doctor. He needs him for the Vitae, after all.
Even if something bad were to happen to the good doctor, Brock would age rapidly by a few years. He's only been in the service of Dr. Collins since 1997.
However, a Ghoul being denied vampiric Blood for a long period of time could pain...and hurt. A lot. Not to mention the withdrawal-like symptoms and the risk of perishing from the shock alone.
So, Brock is in this for the long(est) haul. He knows that the doc is one of the good ones and he's happy to be bound by Blood to him. The good doctor has always looked after him and his well-being.
And, Brock doesn't want anything (or anyone for that matter) to change that dynamic.
Dr. Collins regards his Ghoul for a few moments and kindly asks, "Is something else on your mind? I know this is quite a lot to drop on you, but I...had to tell someone. And who better than the closest I--I'll ever have to a son?"
Upon hearing that, some tears roll down Brock's face. He quickly wipes them off with his hand.
He smiles and hugs the Tzimisce doctor, "Thanks, doc. I'm...glad we have this bond, y'know? The one that makes me feel like I belong. I never had that growing up- I'm sure you know why."
Dr. Collins returns the hug and pats his back, "I'm glad I found you, took a chance on you."
He breaks the hug and inquires, "How are your studies going?"
Brock repeatedly nods his head, "Great. Going great. Y'know, I actually need to see Dr. Sarah about my teeth. It's uh...been a while since I've gone for a checkup and cleanup."
Dr. Collins smiles and gently remarks, "She's the best damn dentist there is, Brock."
He pats Brock's shoulder and says, "Alright, then. You can call her up and let her know you're coming by tomorrow evening. She always insists on setting appointments, heh. Just like me."
Brock grins, "Thanks, doc. And um...your secret corpse back there is--is safe with me. I'd genuinely hate for anything bad to happen to you. I'd be lost--" he stops and his lips quiver.
He clears his throat and adds, "You're like the dad I never ever had. You--you know that, right?"
Dr. Collins sighs and solemnly replies, "I know, Brock. I know. I'm not proud of what I did, but...I had no choice. I hope you understand."
Brock shrugs, "I think so. You're not actually planning on keeping the body HERE, right? I mean, you got some kinda long-term plan, right?"
Dr. Collins ruefully chuckles, "Truth be told, no. It was a spur-of-the-moment thing."
Brock is taken aback, "Whoa. Never took you for the rash-decisions kinda guy. You're always pretty methodical, calculated, careful, and precise, y'know?"
"I know. But sometimes, we have to make snap judgments and quick decisions. And, this was 1 of them. But, I'll find out what to do with the body when the time's right. For now, keeping it here- where no one is likely to come snooping- is my best bet."
"Fair enough. Yeah, that sounds great. Uh-huh, yeah." The trepidation and hesitation is still apparent in Brock's voice. He knows that he's gonna be in the doctor's service for all eternity (until something else were to happen). That is the way of a Ghoul, after all.
Brock doesn't mind it all too much. The good doctor is the closest thing to family he's ever had. And, the good doctor treats him well, treats him like a son.
So, Mr. Davies presses his lips into a thin line and assents, "OK, doc. I'll absolutely keep this between us. You can count on me. And I'll also get on those errands you need me to run."
The Stoker smiles and pats Brock's shoulder, "Thank you, Brock. Thank you. OK, now let's get outta here. I've got patients to see, appointments to keep, and all that."
The aspiring plastic surgeon asks, "Is that how it's gonna be for me??"
Dr. Collins exits the room, locks the door, and responds, "Well, not exactly. I'm sure it'll be a lot more flexible for you."
Brock sighs and replies, "Mm-hmm. Yeah, sure. Sounds good, doc. Well, we should probably head out now."
"You got any place to be? Any um...dates tonight?"
Brock clicks his tongue, "I was kinda messaging this 1 guy, a lotta back-and-forth flirting, but he didn't pass the vibe check, y'know? He wanted to meet, but with the current situation in this city, I'm not so sure, man."
Dr. Collins walks to his car, his Ghoul following closely, "What do you mean?"
Brock muses, "Could be some undercover cop. I was actually in the university library doing some reading, and I found out that this state has some pretty fucking harsh laws against...well, ya know."
"Gay sex. Hmm, I didn't know that. I'm sorry, Brock."
Brock lightly claps his Domitor's back, "Yeah, well it ain't your fault. Just the fucking Republican assholes who've been running this city for...too damn long. You never voted Republican, right?"
Dr. Collins plainly states, "I haven't voted since 1961, nor have I ever bothered to take part since then."
The good doctor says no more and gets in his car. Brock hops into the passenger seat and drums his fingers on the dashboard. He asks to be dropped off back home.
He's got some studying to do.
Dr. Collins, on the other hand, has patients to attend to, ailments to treat and diagnose, prescriptions to write, sagely advice to dole out, and so on and so forth.
As Dr. Collins drives his car, that secret body in his storage unit continues to nag at him. It weighs heavy on his conscience. But, he did what he had to. It's for the greater good of their Clan.
And, he knows that it's just the beginning. The road ahead will be a tough one, but he's up for the challenge. He has to be. If not for himself, then for his fellow Tzimisce and their Ghouls (like Brock Davies).
Also, roping in Dr. Sarah might be a wise choice, but there's a lot of uncertainty involved. What if she says something to somebody? What if she talks, or inadvertently lets something slip out? What if she exposes his dirty little secret?
But, Dr. Collins doesn't wanna push her away or anything, she's been his good friend for decades now. And she's a dentist, therefore the Tzimisce GP considers her a colleague who's on his intellectual level.
In a lucre-obsessed hellscape like Flimont City, it's hard finding people who are on the same wavelength. So, Dr. Sarah and Dr. Collins naturally gravitated towards each other when they first met all those years ago.
The Stoker will tell her soon enough, but he needs to sort some things out first. And, he also needs to keep the Prince in the dark about this whole thing. This could go sideways real quick.
Oh, and there's also the matter of the Thin-Bloods.
Yeah, he's still absolutely dedicated to making sure that Sammie, Wyatt, and little Ralf are not discovered by the Sheriff. So, after dropping his Ghoul back home, Dr. Collins heads to Sammie's Haven.
The Ventrue Sheriff has made a name for herself as a hunter of Thin-Bloods. Thankfully, however, she hasn't found out about Sammie and Wyatt. One cannot even entertain the possibility of what'd happen to a Dhampir like Ralf if something bad were to happen to his mom and uncle.
Dr. Collins shudders at such grim thoughts. He tightens his grip on the steering wheel, gets caught off guard, speeds up, and runs a red light.
He sighs and shakes his head. The good doctor turns down a street and pulls up in front of Sammie's Haven.
The doc looks at the rearview mirror, eyes narrowed. He has to make sure that he isn't being followed. He waits for 2 minutes, and once he's satisfied that nobody's trailing him, he gets out of his car and walks over to the front door.
He rings the doorbell and waits. Sammie opens the door and greets him with a tired smile. She ushers him in and closes the door.
Dr. Collins sees Wyatt reading a storybook to Ralf on the couch. He looks up and nods at the Tzimisce doctor, "Hey, doc. What's up?"
Sammie walks over to the couch and puts her hand on Wyatt's shoulder. She looks down at her son and affectionately squeezes her brother's shoulder, "Wyatt's reading a story to Ralf about a little boy who finds a rabbit."
Dr. Collins nods, "That's good. How's Ralf keeping?"
The Thin-Blood sniffs and walks over to a pile of toys. She bends down and starts clearing them, "A lot better now. He's been fussy and cranky these past few nights, but nothing out of the ordinary."
She drops the toys into a dusty box and closes the lid. She gets up, wipes her hands on her jeans, and puts her hands on her hips. She heaves a deep sigh and looks over at Ralf, "I hope it's nothing serious."
Dr. Collins equably says, "It shouldn't be. Just try to give him a little blood every now and then. I know it's not easy, being who you are, what you are, and all that."
Sammie gulps and nods, "I'll try, doc. I'll try." There are dark circles under her eyes and she looks a lot more paler than the last time the doctor saw her.
Even Wyatt looks quite gaunt and tired. It seems like both these Thin-Blooded siblings are tired, overworked (especially in Sammie's case), and generally drained.
Dr. Collins offers, "How about I take you 3 out for a meal? Something small, just some burgers and shakes, really, just to keep your strength up."
Sammie sighs and shakes her head, "No, it's fine, doc. You don't need to do that, really. I see enough of burgers, shakes, and fucking fries at the diner I work at. No offense."
"None taken. You should really try to get a better job," Dr. Collins suggests.
Wyatt closes the storybook and replies, "Yeah, I keep telling her that, too. But, she insists on working at this stupid diner."
Ralf looks up and repeats, "Stu-pid. Di-ner. Heehehehe!"
Sammie blows a harsh raspberry, "It's the only place that doesn't ask too many questions. You know how hard it is to find a decent job in this fucking city?"
With tired eyes, she glares at the Flesh-Shaper, "Do you? That greasy dump is the only place where I can get some extra cash to put food on the table, make sure our bills are paid, and look after Ralf, you know?"
She rubs her temples and looks away, "Sorry, sorry, sorry. I'm just so tired and stressed out lately. It's been hard, keeping everything together."
Wyatt concurs, "Yep, it sure has."
Dr. Collins inquires, "Any luck getting through to...Ralf's father yet??"
Wyatt groans and his claws come out, "That asshole. Hmph. He won't even pick up when we call him. I've tried so many times, and he never picks up. I recently found out he's away on some kind of a...business trip. How convenient."
Sammie puts her hand on his shoulder and reassures him, "I'm sure you're doing your best, Wyatt."
Wyatt shrugs her hand off and springs up. Little Ralf lets out a tiny gasp. He gets scared seeing his uncle acting this way.
The Thin-Blood clenches his fists and grits his teeth. His face is flushed red with anger and he huffs and puffs, "Why does he get to walk away from all of this?! Huh?!"
Sammie tries to calm him down, "Wyatt, please, relax, you're scaring Ralf!"
Ralf calls out, "Mommy, mommy. I'm scared."
Sammie picks up her son and holds him tight, "It's OK, sweetheart. Your uncle Wyatt is just having a rough time. He didn't mean to scare you."
Wyatt walks over to the window and mutters, "Fucking bastard. Asshole. Coward. Gordon-fucking-Pym."
He looks outside and stares at the ground. He puts his hands on his head and breathes deeply.
Ralf waves to the doctor and grins, showing off his baby fangs.
Dr. Collins smiles and waves back.
Sammie sighs and walks over to Wyatt. She gently puts her hand on his shoulder, "I know it's hard, but...we'll get through this together. We always have."
Wyatt shrugs her hand off and steps away, "No! HOW, Sammie?! We--we're not asking for much, we're just asking that son of a bitch to pay child support, but he--he won't even acknowledge Ralf! Like he doesn't even EXIST!! Like it never happened! And it's fucking frustrating!"
Sammie sighs deeply and holds her son close, "I know. I know. But, we'll find a way. We always do."
Wyatt turns around and shakes his head, "It's just so fucking unfair."
Dr. Collins interjects, "Yeah, it is, isn't it? You...live in Flimont City for so long, you forget what decency even looks like."
Wyatt bitterly scoff-chuckles, "Yeah, I'm starting to see what you mean by that, doc."
Ralf kicks his legs, "Mommy, mommy! Bedtime! Can you tell me a stowy? Please? I like it when you tell me stowies."
Sammie chuckles and kisses his forehead, "Yes, Ralf. I'll tuck you into bed and read you a bedtime story. Just give me 1 minute, OK?"
She looks at Wyatt and asks, "Get him tucked in. I'll be there."
Wyatt puts on a smile, takes his nephew, and goes to the room with him.
Once they're out of sight, Sammie turns to the doctor and tells him, "Wyatt's been going through a rough patch lately. I thought he'd get better, but it's getting worse."
Dr. Collins nods and sighs, "I noticed that. Have you both been feeding regularly?"
The Mercurian scoffs, "Pfft? How? You know the so-called 'real Kindred' are out there, prowling, looking for every last one of us Thin-Bloods, right? It's been hard finding spots and reliable people to feed from, but we manage. Sorta." The uncertainty is all over her face.
"How?" the Tzimisce doctor asks with genuine curiosity.
Sammie answers, "We have our ways. We um...sometimes go to hospitals, especially the rundown ones- there's plenty of those in this godforsaken city."
Dr. Collins tells her, "It seems Sheriff Velma DuPont really has it out for your...kind. She's crazy. I just came here to warn you to be extra careful, OK?"
Sammie crosses her arms and frowns, "What's gonna happen to us, doc? Is there gonna be a time when I can't feed Ralf anymore?"
Dr. Collins reassures her, "It won't come to that, Sammie. It can't, OK? As Primogen for the Tzimisce Clan, I'll try to do my best to dissuade the others from pursuing such draconian policies."
Sammie puts her hands on her head and paces around, "Yeah, go on. Play politics or whatever fancy name they have for it. Single working moms like me don't get that luxury. We're just destined to work jobs that are shittier or more-shittier, heh."
She leans on the wall and heaves a deep sigh, "If--if only I had that little extra cash coming in, then I wouldn't have to worry as much. I just don't know why Gordon refuses to acknowledge Ralf."
The tired single mom looks at the floor and clenches her jaw, deep in contemplation and thought.
Semi-bloody tears well up in her eyes and she wipes them off, "Ugh. Forget it. Listen, I gotta go read bedtime stories to my boy. Thanks for coming by, doc. And thanks for everything you've done for us. Really. I'm sorry if I got a bit snappy back there. Wyatt's sorry, too. Probably."
With sincerity in her eyes, she adds, "It's not who we are as people. It's just that...things are not looking too great for us right now. I don't--I don't want my son to grow up in a world where he's always looking over his shoulders--"
Dr. Collins points out, "And there's the inescapable fact that you'll always remain the same while Ralf ages...it's not easy being in your shoes, Sammie. Now, I understand that."
Sammie puts on a smile and nods, "Hm, yeah. Anyway, th--thank you, doc. Thank you. Now, if you'll excuse me, I should get going. Goodnight."
"Goodnight," Dr. Collins says in kind. He walks over to the door and leaves the house.
He gets in his car and takes another look at the rearview mirror. Nope, no one following him. Good.
The Stoker sighs in relief, starts his car up, and goes back to the clinic to attend to his patients. He does so with his usual precision, non-judgmental attitude, and meticulousness.
The doctor goes about his night and attends to a wide variety of patients. He diagnoses, prescribes, and does everything he can to help the mortals who come through his clinic's doors.
It's certainly a good way to stay in touch with one's Humanity, and in a greedy and callous blightscape like Flimont City, it's almost essential to keep one's Humanity intact.
It is indeed the most important responsibility that any Kindred has. The ability to keep their Humanity intact is a boon that some Kindred squander away in exchange for wealth or power or whatever.
As for Dr. Collins, he's been able to keep his Humanity and compassion intact.
But, is individual kindness and decency enough to keep things going?
Frankly, no. It's absolutely good, yes, but it's not gonna lead to the systemic change desperately needed around these parts. Individual acts of goodness can only take one so far in this world of darkness.
So, Dr. Collins and his fellow Tzimisce will have to do something about this, sooner or later.
The question is, what will they do? What will the good doctor do in the coming nights, and how does the cold body in his storage unit factor into all of this?
Questions, questions, questions.
Chapter 12: The Waitress
Answers will come in due time. For now, the Kindred in this corner of the world prepare for the pull of the day-sleep. The sun begins to rear its hot and fiery head, and the creatures of the night retreat to their Havens and refuges for some rest.
(Some really long-ass rest).
Burt parks his van in an underground parking lot, completely sheltered from the rays of the sun. He pulls the keys out, groans, and heads to the back of his van.
He settles into a sleeping position, pulls a tatty old blanket over himself, and closes his eyes. After a few moments, the Baali goes completely still.
His was a long night of playing gigs at bars and restaurants. The money sucked, but it was better than literally no money at all, so he took whatever was given to him.
The crowd wasn't exactly receptive and he even had a few bottles of beer tossed at him by self-entitled guys in fancy suits who were jeering and booing him at every chance they got.
Was the music not to their liking? Was it Burt's washed-up (one might say subversive and unconventional) appearance that caused those guys to act in such an aggressive and hostile manner?
Oh, well, Burt will never know. He was quick enough to dodge most of the flying booze bottles. He even defiantly took a swig of some of the expensive booze, but he vomited it out later, though.
It's not blood, and it tasted like ash on his dead tongue.
Burt has played before, and audiences have been really welcoming, warm, receptive, and encouraging. But, F-City is different.
Culture is sadly something not held in high regard around these parts; it's always been a city of filthy lucre- petulant stockbrokers, coke-addled day traders, slimy hedge fund managers, nutty VCs, parasitic speculators, and their ilk run this place with an iron fist (in all but name).
The cops in this Midwestern city continue to be a menace, especially against the working masses. The fancy suits remain un-scuffed, but anyone who looks "shady" (you know what that usually means to an American police officer) gets the truncheon.
Or worse.
Anyways, what else happened last night?
A lot. Something quite pivotal, actually- a van got hit by the Brujah, like, literally smacked to scrap by a few of them. Poor sap who got hit had no idea what was going on. They just left a smashed and mangled van, bloodied driver, and a destroyed trailer in the middle of the street.
And then, they buzzed off, leaving all sorts of wreckage and chaos in their wake.
That van was carrying Vessels that "cater" exclusively to Prince Antonio's Rarefied Tastes, the Ventrue Clan Bane. It basically means that Blue Bloods can only feed from "certain" folk.
It could be as wide as the world's oceans or as narrow as a needle, or any freaky-crazy combination thereof, depending on the Ventrue in question.
As for Prince Antonio's Rarefied Taste, he bites down on folk who are of the rarest blood group in the world- the golden blood type or Rh null blood group.
He even has his own "private collection" in some other place that he goes to ONLY WHEN it's an emergency.
And, since the Brujah done fucked up, it do be an emergency. He's not gonna be too happy about it when he reawakens from his day-slumber, that's for sure!
Sheriff Velma DuPont has her own Rarefied Tastes- indie musicians. Yep, that's it. However, since this is Flimont City, those kinds of peeps are harder to come by (one would have greater luck locating teeth on a hen).
So, she drives out real far to get her filling of the thick red. Yummy!!
Prince Antonio has been known to utilize the routes of the Blood Trade to move (smuggle) his Vessels in and out of the state so as not to arouse suspicion or get on any government agencies' radars.
His "meals" are transported in these nondescript trucks (or vans) and trailers that have their plates changed once they cross a certain point.
So, it's easy for folks to look and drive by, not even knowing that they're driving right by the living cargo of the city's vampire ruler.
As for Sheriff Velma DuPont's yum-yums, the local indie music scene is where she finds them. Her experience as a music producer certainly helps her to get close to musicians and singers who fit the bill.
Some even think of her as "a pretty cool, sexy, awesome lady" who just might help launch their careers or whatever. So, they like having her around and they open up to her (sometimes).
But, she is still a Kindred (and a Sheriff, too), and the local music scene is small, so it's hard for her to not feed from the same musicians, so she's careful to make sure that she doesn't cross paths with the same peeps too many times in a row lest they get suspicious.
The question does remain: why did the Punks attack the Prince's shipment? Did they know it was connected to him or was this just another Brujah flare-up due to their Clan's Bane? Was this a way to force and twist the Prince's hand in the current "negotiations"?
Either way, Clive's got a lot to answer for tonight, and he's already on thin ice as it is. Prince Antonio's not exactly going to let him off scot-free for this little punchy-punchy escapade.
The only reason Prince Antonio relies upon the Circulatory System to move his "food" around is because his Rarefied Tastes simply cannot be found within Flimont City.
Despite being a city of a million-plus people, nobody seems to fit the bill for having no Rhesus (Rh) factors or antigens in their red cells, so the big cheese has to rely on the Circulatory System and all the issues that come along with that (like frequently changing routes, for example).
It is what it is.
Brock, meanwhile, goes about his Ghoul-related duties as the sun beams down from high in the sky. He meets with the other Tzimisce Ghouls, checks in with them, asks if there's anything they need, and all that.
They all say everything's fine. Most are either concerned or downright indifferent about Galeb's recent disappearance.
Brock nervously wiggles in his seat when the Elder's name is mentioned. His heart beats like a war-drum in his chest. The Ghouls ask if everything is fine, but he reassures them that yes, everything's fine, just peachy!
He then gets up, says his goodbyes, and leaves. He inhales some of that afternoon air, hails a taxi, and asks to be driven back home so he can study, rest, and keep on going.
Brock has some more errands to run (on behalf of the good doctor) and some other people to see. He'll do that later. Right now, he sits on his beanbag, grabs a book on plastic surgery, and flips through the pages. He settles into his studies and tries to absorb as much as he can. He has to keep up.
This is his future over here!
Still, juggling all this as a quasi-mortal (or quasi-immortal, depending on one's perspective) Ghoul can't be easy. The Bond of Blood is quite strong and it is especially stronger for Ghouls like Brock. The stronger the Bond of Blood, the more connected and dependent a Ghoul is on their Domitor.
Brock does get these weird splitting headaches every now and then, but they mostly go away in a few hours. For now, he spends his afternoon deeply immersed in his studies.
He's done what he can for Dr. Collins. He's checked up on most of the other Tzimisce in this Domain (even if only via their Ghouls), so what else is there to do?
Study! Brock does shoot some suggestive text messages to a few cute guys who might be interested, but in light of recent events, he has to tread cautiously.
The last thing he needs is to get caught up in some Lavender Scare-esque sting operation, get thrown in prison for an unspecified amount of time, or be sentenced to some inhumane "treatment" that involves drugs or shock therapy.
His parents planned to do that shit to him.
Brock sighs uneasily and his lips tremble, "Nope. Nuh-uh. N--never again. I just gotta...not be so fucking horny all the time, heh. Yeah, sh--should be easy, right? I can control my...urges." He gets a little twitchy, but he resists.
He doesn't even bother to reply to the guy he's been texting. He just focuses on his studies. There'll be time for the sexy and fun stuff later.
Hopefully.
At the Lancaster mansion...
Marcus stands at front of the mansion. He looks up, shakes his head, and strides inside. He is immediately greeted by his grandfather.
Clarence looks at him with eyes of disdain. He holds a walking stick and is slightly hunched over. The Lancaster family patriarch's stick-holding hand is trembling and the thin man next to him stands close lest Clarence tumbles down to the floor.
Clarence clicks his tongue and begins, "Well, what do you have to say for yourself?! Huh?! Tell me, boy, what do you want?" there is an intense scowl on the old man's face.
Marcus squares his shoulders and resolutely says, "I'm moving out. I'm here to get my things. After that, I'm out. I'm done with this place, done with this shit, and done with you."
Clarence growls and maintains his scowl, "Why, you ungrateful little mulatto. Do you have any idea of the hell you're bringing upon us?!"
He hobbles forward and shakes his head in disgust, "We shoulda aborted you." He says those 4 words with a quiet rage.
Marcus doesn't even flinch. He simply scoffs and heads for the stairs.
Clarence howls out through gritted teeth, "I ain't done with you, boy. Get your ass back over here."
Marcus stops in his tracks and glowers at his grandpa, "What?!"
The old man grunts, groans, and meanders over to him. His attendant follows closely.
Clarence growls, "Your uncle was just here along with those 2 daughters of his."
"So?"
"Hrmfghgrhgh. So? Despite them both being women, they makin' a whole lot more money than you do, boy. $95,000 a year- you're a failure, Marcus. A disgrace to the Lancaster family name, a disgrace to your daddy's name." The old man's voice breaks near the end and there's some real sadness there.
Marcus puts his hand on his forehead and shakes his head, "For Christ's sake!! I'm done with this shit! I'm OUT!"
He turns around and commands his nearby buddies, "Make sure that they load EVERYTHING from my room into those trucks!"
A man with dreadlocks nods and quickly bolts up the wide stairs with a bunch of other dudes.
Clarence shouts up, "And don't let the door hit your ungrateful asses on the way out! And you better not think of stealin' from my place!"
The guys ignore him, and he turns to face his grandson, "Why? Why do you want to leave your own family, Marcus? Hmm?! Your own house that me and your daddy and his brothers built with our own hands!"
Marcus's face contorts and his cheeks puff up as if he's gonna let out a harsh scream, "You know damn well WHY!!" his fists are clenched and his eyes are filled with rage, resentment, and anger.
"Hmmph. Illuminate me, boy."
Marcus gets all up in his grandpa's bidness and pokes the old man with his finger, "Because you're a toxic, narcissistic, egomaniacal asshole, and I want absolutely nothing to do with that shit! Ever! No matter how many times I come over, it's the same old bullshit."
He pauses for a second and adds, "Nothing EVER fucking changes. I'm not the guy you or daddy want me to be. And that's not gonna change, either." He says that with finality.
Clarence shoves his cane into the ground and snaps, "Boy, you best be on your knees, prayin' for forgiveness. I knew you was nothing but trouble from the day your daddy introduced me to that harlot you call your mother."
Upon hearing that, Marcus screams and violently shoves his grandpa down to the ground. He looks down at the old man who has landed on his side, "Shut the fuck up!! You have NO RIGHT to talk about MY MOMMA like that!"
The old man's attendant looks around in a panic, and some of Clarence's other guys rush to him to help him up.
The old man lets out a groan as he is lifted back to his feet. After being helped up, he shoves all them off and barks, "GET YOUR FUCKING HANDS OFF ME!!"
Clarence fixes his robe and mutters, "Goddamn worthless pieces of shit. I never asked to be helped up by nobody. And I don't need nobody's pity!"
He points an accusatory finger at his grandson, "And you! We didn't raise you to act like a--a--a thug or some hooligan from the 'hood, boy!"
"'We?!' Who the fuck is 'we'?! Dad was always off chasing tail while you were too busy running your businesses with an iron fist!" Marcus's eyes are bloodshot and his face is red.
He shakes his head and bitterly scoffs, "You don't care about anybody, you never have, Clarence. All you care about is...is some stupid legacy that ain't gon' happen."
Clarence huffs and heaves. He clutches his chest and winces in pain.
Marcus puts his hands on his hips and turns his back. He closes his eyes, breathes deeply, and sighs, "You're a mean-spirited old man, Clarence. That's it. A bitter and hateful old man, and it ain't gonna change no matter what happens."
He turns to face the old man and gestures around the fancy mansion, "And all this? All this money, fancy shit, imported fixtures...don't mean shit no more."
Marcus jabs his thumb behind him and continues, "I'm new money. I ain't held down by the constraints or so-called standards of old money no more. Ain't you or anybody else gonna tell us how to behave no more--"
He's rudely interrupted by Clarence shouting out, "Boy! I will whoop the white and black outta your ass. If it ain't for my old and achy joints, you'd be sorry as shit." The old man is clearly fuming on the inside, and he ain't done.
Clarence points his cane at Marcus's face, "You better remember that." He shoves the cane at his grandson, causing him to flinch.
The old man then stabs the ground and takes a few deep breaths, "Now, go on. Get your shit and get outta here. You're lucky I don't press charges. Shoving an old, helpless man to the ground- oughta be ashamed of yourself. Goddamn ghetto behavior. You ain't even worthy of the Lancaster family name." He looks down in disgust, his voice breaking and faltering.
Marcus narrows his eyes, his heart sinking as he watches his grandfather in all his hatefulness.
Marcus faintly chuckles and shakes his head. He smugly says, "You don't know. But everyone at last year's Thanksgiving party had a fitting nickname for you."
Clarence scoffs and dismissively waves his hand, "Nonsense. Now you're just trying to get in my head and throw me off balance." He turns to his attendant, "Go get me some water, boy. Quickly!"
"Y--yes, Mr. Clarence, sir." The thin guy bows his head and runs off to fetch some water.
Marcus snorts, "Uncle Ruckus. Heh, yeah. Everyone was callin' you that behind your back at last year's Thanksgiving gathering. I think it was um...Tasha who came up with that nickname."
He lifts his chin and grins slightly, "It fits. It really does."
Clarence simply glowers at his grandson and snarls. One can almost visualize smoke coming out of his nostrils, like some sort of cartoon bull about to charge or something.
However, Clarence just stands there, glowering at his grandson.
Marcus simply turns around and heads up the stairs to make sure that the rest of his things are packed and ready to be loaded onto the trucks.
He stops near the top of the stairs and turns back around. He sighs and says, "Goodbye, grandfather. I wish I could say that--that it was good knowing ya, but I--I just can't. I just can't."
The thin man returns with a glass of water. Clarence snatches it and gulps it all down, "I don't need nobody's pity! You hear me?! I don't need anybody's pity!!!"
His voice is shaking, but he says no more. He simply turns around and hobbles off into the bowels of the Lancaster family mansion, hoping never to see Marcus again.
Marcus takes a deep breath and goes up to his room to watch other people packing his stuff. He ain't lifting no finger! Nope! He stands in a corner and orders the folk around.
The man with dreadlocks stands next to Marcus and lowers his voice, "So, how'd it go?"
Marcus huffs, "It was...whatever. I mean, it was inevitable." He's clearly down, but he's not going to let it show, "Anyways, all good here, Chris?"
Chris looks to be about Marcus's age. He's got long dreadlocks, droopy brown eyes, dark skin, and he's slightly taller than Marcus (but not by much). He's dressed in some white polyester sports outfit with a red stripe.
"Y--yeah," Chris quietly replies.
"What?" Marcus asks, eye narrowed.
Chris shakes his head and chuckles, "Uh, n--no, yeah! It's um--it's all good here! You got a lotta stuff, man. Holy! You sure it's ALL gon' fit in your new place?"
Marcus shrugs, "Dunno. If it doesn't, I'll buy new shit to keep it in, simple as that. I got money, heh."
"You sure you should be antagonizing your granddaddy like that??"
Marcus dismissively scoffs and replies, "Pfft. The fuck was I supposed to do?! Live under his foot till I turned 50 or till he finally kicked the bucket?! Nah, I'm done with this place, Chris..."
Chris jokes, "But you ain't done with that money, though."
Marcus chuckles and folds his arms, "Haha. Yeah, I ain't. When he and dad finally go bye-bye, imma make sure that I inherit the lion's share."
Chris's eyebrows shoot up and he exclaims, "Whoa! Quincy and Tequan ain't gon' be too pleased by that. They'll drag your ass to court and fight you tooth and nail. Not to mention, all your cousins and shit will be there, too."
"Pfft, what they gon' do? Fuck Quincy and fuck Tequan. They might be my so-called 'half-brothers', but I think it's only fair that I get the lion's share of whatever the old man leaves us. He can't take that shit with him to the grave. Nuh-uh. No. Way."
He turns to Chris, "I ain't letting nobody else have my inheritance, what is rightfully due to ME!"
Chris nervously rubs the base of his neck, "How much is it all, anyway?"
A devious smile forms on Marcus's lips and he calmly replies, "Billions. Billions."
Chris gasps and chokes on his spit. He starts coughing.
Marcus puts his hands in his pocket, "Yup. The Lancaster family fortune. It's in the billions."
He casually shrugs and chuckles, "Haha. And I'm about to claim my rightful share. It's only fair cuz of all the shit I've had to put up with over the years. You think I was being a lil' harsh when I confronted the old man, you shoulda tried growing up in this fuckin' place!"
Chris looks around at all the majestic fixtures, marble tiles, the fine china, paintings on the wall, fancy rugs, etc. etc., and whistles, "Damn, son! Too bad we can't airlift chunks of this dope-ass place and attach it to yours, haha!"
"Yup, exactly," Marcus agrees.
He gestures towards a random table in the hallway. It's exquisite, to put it mildly- gold trimming on the sides and a diamond-encrusted vase sits on top of it.
Marcus then gestures around the opulent hallway, "All of this? I just gotta be patient and it'll all fall on my lap soon enough. And then, I'll be 1 of the richest men in all the Midwest."
He licks his lips and folds his arms. His eyes are filled with determination and a new sense of resolve. He says with confidence, "Yup. It's all gonna work out for the best. It has to. The universe owes me for all the shit it put me through."
(If he says so).
In good time, Marcus's stuff is loaded onto 2 huge trucks (he's got a lotta garish, flashy, and expensive crap) and they take off for Marcus's new place.
The afternoon sun relentlessly beams down on the world below as the packers and movers haul stuff up to the 4th floor of Marcus's place.
The Lancaster mansion is a world away, a distant memory, but not completely forgotten. It will surely nag at the young man, but he won't let it show.
Nah, it's all about the future, not the past, for Marcus Lancaster. And it's gonna be a bright one.
Or so he tells himself. But, the future had other (one might be tempted to say radical) plans for the cocky Marcus and his many delusions of grandeur.
The rest of the afternoon is spent moving shit around. Well, as much as possible.
The dcor is a clash between the regal, high-society flair of Marcus's old place and the modern (at least by Y2K standards) aesthetic of the Prairie Ridge Apartments.
He gets some new, comfy, leather furniture that cost more than some cars (not that that's any surprise), a bunch of cool artwork, and some other stuff that one can expect from the scion of a multi-billion-dollar elite cream-of-the-crop family.
All the noise causes consternation amongst the residents. Some chide the packers and movers for the ruckus (like it's their fault somehow), some try to not be affected by any of the hubbub, and others are just too damn tired to be bothered by all of it.
A polished man in his late-30s with combed-back hair approaches Marcus and firmly says, "Mr. Lancaster. As appreciative as we are of your presence here at the Prairie Ridge, the rules clearly stipulate that there may be no noise from--"
Marcus holds up his finger and declares, "You know who I am? You know who my dad is?" Hey, might as well play the dad card, heh.
The apartment association guy aptly guy replies, "Yes, Mr. Lancaster. I do. As a matter of fact, I am a minority shareholder in your father's company."
Marcus dismissively waves his hand, "I don't got nothing to do with my daddy's business."
The association guy faintly smirks, "Be that as it may, the stock and share prices have gone down lately due to the recent deaths of some employees at Lancaster-SYS. Shame."
Marcus sighs and reiterates himself, "Like I said: I don't got nothing to do with my daddy's company. Now, what do you want?"
Association dude gets to the point, "Your downstairs neighbor has lodged a formal complaint against you last night regarding excessive noise. Miss...erm...Lilac was--"
Marcus grunts, "Man, fuck that shawty! I had 1 shindig and she wants to, what, get me thrown out of--"
The apartment association fella interjects, raising a hand, "We have strict rules and policies here at the Prairie Ridge, Mr. Lancaster. There must be NO noise from the times stipulated in the official apartment handbook."
Marcus faintly mumbles, "I'm so tired of livin' under these bullshit rules all the time."
"Well, haha, be that as it may, we have a certain...reputation to uphold here at the Prairie Ridge."
Marcus gesticulates in a vague direction, "Then, why don't you start by clearing out that fucking homeless encampment nearby, huh? I can get the smells from all the way up in my place! It's disgusting!"
"Yes, yes, we've been meaning to- for a while, actually. It's bad for property values and our image here at the Ridge, isn't it? Either way, we've been working on coordinating a removal operation with the FCPD."
"Fuckin' of course it is! And about this so-called 'noise complaint'...if there's a fine, I ain't paying it."
Association fella chuckles, "Haha, oh please, nothing like that, I assure how. However...if you get 3 complaints in a row, you're out. Our rules and policies are VERY strict on these matters."
Marcus's face scrunches in confusion, "What is this?! Some kinda video game?!"
Mr. Association shrugs, "It's the 3-strike system. 'Gamey' in a certain way, I suppose. Like I said: we have a certain reputation and image to uphold here at the Ridge. We can't have the wrong kinds of people taking up space in our luxurious apartments, wouldn't you concur, Mr. Lancaster?"
Marcus shoves his hands in his pockets, "Hmphhrf. Imma go down and talk to that...what's her name again?"
"It's Mauve Lilac, I believe. Strange name and definitely not our usual type here at the Ridge, but the payments from her end are always on time. I would personally recommend NOT going down and speaking to her."
"Why?"
"Well, for starters, she doesn't answer the door in the morning- don't ask why. We value our privacy here at the Ridge. Secondly, she barely takes part in...anything going on here. I hosted a rooftop BBQ a few weeks ago. Everyone was invited, but the occupant of 303 saw fit to...not show up."
Marcus remarks, "She looked kinda crazy when I saw her. I guess it's better chicks like that keep to themselves."
"Hm. Well, as long as she has the money, she can be as 'crazy' or 'kept-to-herself' as she wants. That's usually how it goes around here, Mr. Lancaster."
Marcus gets annoyed, "Tch, please. Don't 'Mr. Lancaster' me. My name's Marcus."
The Association dude plainly smiles, "Well, Marcus, I'll let you off with a warning...this time. I'm not saying don't have parties in the future, no, no, no, by all means, knock yourself out! Just color within the lines is all we ask of you."
Marcus shrugs a shoulder, "I guess I can do that."
They chat for a short while about little things of no great importance, exchange quick pleasantries, and go on their merry ways.
It's not long before afternoon gives way to evening. The sun begins to set, and the city is slowly being shrouded in darkness. It's almost serene. Almost. It's a beautiful moment of transition in a city clogged up with cars and honking horns.
The sun sets and a new night is born. It's still quite hot outside and the air is stale. Traffic congestion begins to build up as mortals begin to rush home from work, the usual.
A few stop to get their dinner from fast food joints and restaurants, which are open for very long hours. It's all part of the rhythm of the (still-young) night.
Prince Antonio Black awakens from his day-sleep. He slowly rises from his double bed, throws the thick blanket off, and begins to walk around his bedroom.
The Ventrue Prince's face is still as hard as it ever was, but it does soften up a bit when he sees the pictures of his kids and his late wife.
He looks up at the framed painting and remarks, "We've come a long way from Sicily. A long time, too...and I'm still here, in charge of this place."
He stares off into the distance, remembering the old times. He remembers the time (in the very distant past) when he and a 100 (or so) other Ventrue (and their Ghouls) were on that boat bound for the so-called "New World".
The Sicilian Ventrue had sent about a 100 of their own, along with plenty of mortals (as food, mostly). They all sailed over the sea to a new land, where they were supposed to have a new beginning.
Prince Antonio was just a mortal back then, his pregnant wife and kids coming along with him on this voyage. The ship ride was hell. Many Frenzied, a lot more perished, and some were just REALLY seasick.
By the time the ill-fated ship got to America, there were only about 50 souls remaining. There were a LOTTA exsanguinated corpses and piles of ashes beneath the deck.
They were given land and told to work the land and prosper. And so, they did, albeit in a very limited capacity. It wasn't long before Antonio got Embraced into the Clan of Kings; his mortal family continued on, having kids and grandkids of their own as time flew by.
Due to the Masquerade, Antonio had to distance himself from his family (and their eventual descendants). He got so busy and involved with the Ventrue politicking in America that he sort of forgot about his family as time rolled on.
The Prince's Haven is a luxurious and spacious mansion with marble flooring, fancy chandeliers, and other lavish trappings. The walls are lined with various portraits and art pieces, and the decor is clearly high-class to the max.
It's all about the Old-World flair to him, with a bit of the "Old Country" thrown in. Still, he does have the latest-model appliances, but they're mostly there for show or for the mortals who serve on the Prince's staff.
They're not really used that much. What's the Blue Blood gonna do with a toaster?
It's pretty quiet here, the distant sounds of the city not reaching this far out. The air is warm, the night is calm, and the lights come on automatically at sunset.
The Prince's brow furrows and his eyes dart around. He has a lot to think about, a lot to reflect on.
He steps into a bathtub, disrobes, and lies there for a good few minutes. The warm and bubbly water comforts his dead nerves and soothes his soul. He lets out a deep sigh.
A while later, Prince Antonio emerges from the tub and dons a bathrobe. He puts on some cologne and steps out of the room, his bare feet lightly tapping the marble floor.
He saunters over to his walk-in closet and picks a beige suit, black shirt, and a brown tie. He begins to dress himself. It's always nice to look sharp, after all.
It's all about the image to the Patricians.
He sits down and begins to run a comb through his hair. After that, he approvingly nods at his reflection in the long mirror. From there, he heads downstairs to the larger-than-Unlife living room.
The lights are dimmed, and the windows are all closed. The living room is very tasteful, decorated, and practically spotless. The Prince rubs 2 fingers across a leather couch and nods.
He steps over to a fancy mahogany table, puts a phone to his ear, and dials a number on his rotary phone. It rings for a few seconds before the other line is picked up.
Sheriff Velma answers, "It's bad. Real bad. Something happened and it requires our immediate attention. I'll be there shortly." She hangs up without saying goodbye.
Prince Antonio's eyes narrow and he mutters, "Ach, great. What now, huh?" he paces around and bites on his thumb. He feels his Hunger. It's almost overwhelming, but he tries to ignore and suppress it for now.
His face softens and he looks off into the distance. He can hear the faint sounds of the vehicles in the distance, and the noises of people within his mansion shuffling about, cleaning, polishing, dusting tables, and so on.
He closes his eyes and listens, focusing his senses. There are the sounds of water running in the kitchen and the faint noises of the fridge humming.
He walks over to another table and picks up a letter he had recently received. It's from some teenage girl named Molly Black (!). She claims to be a distant relative of the Prince and that this letter she's writing to him is part of her school assignment.
Molly went on about how she went about finding her roots using the computers at her school in this little town called Greenridge, and how her family had roots in Sicily or some such.
She also went on about how she was very interested in finding out more about her distant relative, provided he is the right guy. She goes on and on about other things relating to her upbringing, her town, and what have you.
The Prince indifferently tosses the letter aside and shrugs, "Ah, she's not getting a reply."
A wise choice, perhaps. Then again, if some small-town kid with a public-school computer can track down a fairly elusive guy like Prince Antonio, who knows who else might be able to do the same?
The many forces of the Second Inquisition monitor a lot on these nights. Various Orgs and factions are undoubtedly lurking in the shadows, preying (or waiting to be preyed upon).
It's the price of being in a position of power. The Ventrue Prince looks at his fancy Rolex watch and his eyes narrow, "Hrmf. Where the fuck is she?!"
The exterior of the Ventrue's Haven is all brick and stone, with a large, iron gate that is kept locked. The grounds are manicured and lush, with bushes and trees dotted around the lawn.
There are no signs of any obvious security cameras, but one can never be too careful. The place looks quite grandiose even from the outside!
Sheriff Velma DuPont rolls up to the front gate in her sleek red Mustang convertible. She honks and looks up at the CCTV camera above her. She impatiently taps her fingers on the steering wheel.
Her hair is done in her usual up-do, and she's wearing a long black trench coat. She's got a shiny pearl necklace, cherry-red lipstick, diamond earrings, and red-tinted sunglasses.
A buzzing noise is followed by the iron gate opening up. Sheriff Velma puts on her sunglasses and speeds through the gate, stopping right in front of the giant, ornate front door.
She gets out of her car and approaches the front door. Prince Antonio is already standing outside, his arms on either side of his body and a look of mild annoyance on his face.
He's the first to speak, "Talk to me, Velma."
Sheriff Velma pushes her shades up and gets straight to the point, "Your Brujah buddies had a bit of a flare up and wrecked your latest shipment. I don't know the full details yet, but it's a problem, a big one. Bad news."
Prince Antonio's face contorts and his jaw twitches. He swears under his breath and faintly growls, "Fuckin' Anarchs. I knew trusting them was a bad idea. They're gonna pay for this, oh they will. Nobody crosses me and gets away with it. Nobody!"
Sheriff Velma frowns and says, "Either way, we'll need to address this soon. From what I've heard, that crazy British brick shithouse Clive was somehow involved. I don't know exactly how he's involved in this just yet, but it can't be good."
Prince Antonio snarls, "Goddamn, what the hell has gotten into these fuckin' Punks, huh?"
He paces around and muses, "Is it because of the entrance fee? Are these clowns trying to force my hand in these negotiations, huh?! Well, I tell ya what, I might increase the asking price now! 2 million dollars!"
Sheriff Velma stifles a sigh, "I--uh...I don't think that's wise. In all fairness, 1 million dollars itself is quite a big ask. Adding another million to the demand is only going to make things worse for us, and you know how Brujah act when they're backed into a corner."
Prince Antonio shakes his head and grumbles, "This is unacceptable, Velma! T--Tell me you at least found out where my Vessels went?" there's desperation in his dead eyes.
Sheriff Velma shrugs and shakes her head, "Honestly, I'm not sure. The vehicle was all smashed-up."
She takes off her sunglasses and holds them up against the moonlight, "I'm still trying to figure out the next move. Maybe you could hire somebody to track the cargo down? I'll do what I can from my end, but if those guys are hiding, I'm not sure what else we can do."
With some resignation in her tone, she adds, "I mean, it was a shitshow, as you can probably imagine. We're dealing with the aftermath right now. That's why I came here so quickly- to brief you, so that you can make a decision."
Prince Antonio sighs in frustration and mumbles, "At least I have my emergency stashes around this city. I hate having to hit 'em, but..."
He sighs again, his hands clasping his neck, "I'll...I'll work on something."
Sheriff Velma points out, "With all due respect, Flimont City is a city of a million plus people. Finding your runaway Vessels won't be an easy task, and with the cops out in full force--"
The Prince rudely interrupts her with a raised hand, "Yeah, yeah, I get it, Velma, I get it. I'll think of something. But we can't just sit here and let these goddamn Rebels do as they fuckin' please. If they want a seat at my table, then I want my money. Capeesh?"
"Hm. Either way, you can't just let this slide. You want me to bring Clive in with a piece of wood sticking out of his chest? Just say the word and I'll do it. Gladly."
Prince Antonio shakes his head and snickers a little, "No, no. Bring him in, but without the wood sticking outta his chest, heh. I need to have words with him."
He goes on to command her, "Bring him back here if you have to. If he won't come quietly, then just talk to him at whatever dump he's at. Get to the bottom of this. Capeesh?"
"Hm. Yeah."
The Blue Blood then calls his Sheriff over and hands her this letter from Molly. He hands it to her and asks for her "professional opinion" on the matter.
She reads through it, eyes darting around the paper, and remarks, "Well, this definitely spells trouble for you. You want me to go over to Greenridge and take care of it? Personally?" Every syllable uttered is nothing short of ominous.
Prince Antonio is taken aback, and he raises both eyebrows in surprise, "What?! NO! She's just a fucking kid, Velma! Not some Thin-Blood! I wanted to know what you thought about it, not whether or not you were gonna go over there and kill her! For Christ's sake, she's...family."
Sheriff Velma's eyes narrow, "Family that managed to find you. As Sheriff, it is my duty to uphold the Masquerade--"
"Don't educate me on the Traditions, OK? I know 'em already. Either way, I have no interest in replying to the kid."
Sheriff Velma cracks a small smile, "That's a wise choice."
The Prince glares at her, "Yeah, yeah, I have my reasons."
(Some of those reasons are more apparent than others).
Sheriff Velma blandly asks, "Do you...still keep in touch with any of your mortal relatives or descendants?"
Prince Antonio scoffs, "Pfft. No. This letter was out of the blue for me. I mean, I might know a few people who are...related to me. We have no connection whatsoever. They have no ties to me and don't owe me anything. Best part is, I don't owe 'em, too!"
Sheriff Velma looks around her fellow Ventrue's Haven, "Hmm. Same here. I keep away from my sisters and their many grandchildren. DuPont women were always too...laid-back for me."
Prince Antonio asks, "DuPont, huh? I never did ask, but any relation to that chemical company of the same last name as yours?"
The Sheriff emphatically answers, "NO. We're the DuPonts, as in the family composed of musicians, music producers, and so on. We're French on my mother's side, I think. Not that I would even care about something like that, anyways."
The Prince grins, "Haha. Sure, sure. Now, go on. Scram. Find me that Brujah and make sure he comes quietly or talks. Either way, I don't want a mess on my streets."
Sheriff Velma bows her head slightly, "As you wish. It'll take a while, though. Traffic's out in full force again and this city turns into a fucking maze for snails when that happens. It's awful!"
Prince Antonio replies, "Well, I ain't payin' you by the hour, Velma."
She gets the hint, turns on her heel, and strides back over to her car. She doesn't drive off right away, instead checking her hair and makeup in her rearview mirror.
The Prince is still in the doorway and he's watching her intently, "Hmmph. I give her a wide berth to do her thing. She's been good for these past 5 decades. Here's to another 5...or 10...or more, heh heh!"
Sheriff Velma starts up her car, the engine roaring to life, and she begins her journey through the mean and congested streets of F-City! She's gonna go out and about, looking for a muscular British Brujah, and hopefully get to the bottom of last night's events.
Elsewhere, in an abode far humbler...
Diego steps out from the shower, a towel wrapped around his waist. The Gangrel proceeds to dry himself and gets dressed.
He's clad in a button-down shirt, slacks, and some fancy scuffed work boots.
Marisol does the top buttons of her silk shirt and adjusts her collar. She then puts on some light makeup, a look of uncertainty on her sallow face.
Diego asks his girlfriend, "Hey, what's up? You look down. Work again? Any word on those layoffs?"
Marisol applies some mascara and weakly replies, "Yeah. Oscar and a few others got let go last night."
Diego gasps, "Oh, no. Not Oscar! Damn! He was a good homie, y'know. Who else?"
Marisol pauses for a second, her eyes fixated on the lipstick tube in front of her, "Uh...Marty, Zach, Ellie, and Scott."
"Shit! And how are they doing? They need any help from us?"
Marisol sighs and quickly applies her lipstick. She smacks her lips a few times, "Not good. They're not taking it too well, D. I wish that we could help, but we're not exactly doing too great ourselves."
Diego's shoulders slump and he sighs deeply, "Yeah. Maybe we can buy 'em dinner when things start to settle down? Or something. I just wanna help them."
"Hmm. Well, it's worth a try. I feel sorry for them, D. Some of them were living hand-to-mouth. I know Scott was homeless and living out of his sister's car. Ellie recently lost custody of her kid after her DUI charge. I don't how any of them are going to cope now. This job was--was all they had."
Diego puts his cold hand on her shoulder, "We'll try our best to support them in whatever way we can."
Marisol puts her cold hand on his and forces a smile, "We will. But--never mind. Sorry. I have to go to work now. This job, I need it more than anything, D."
Diego nods in understanding and gives her a quick peck on the cheek, "Yeah. Remember: if things get bad, I have no issues looking for more stable work. I don't care what it is, I'll do anything. Anything for us, mi corazon."
Marisol sniffs and holds back tears of blood, "Thank you, Diego. Really. In these 4...short years we've been together, you've been nothing but supportive and understanding. I--I love you, D."
Diego smiles at her, "And I love you a lot more, chica. Don't you worry, we'll be fine. We're both survivors. We're Gangrel. We're tough as they come and we've been through a lot of bad shit. You're all that matters to me, Marisol."
Marisol looks around her Haven and wistfully adds, "And you're all that matters to me, D. And this Haven, too. At least we have mi abuela's house, so we don't have to worry about paying rent or any of that shit."
Diego's eyes glimmer a bit and he smiles, "Yeah! It's gonna be our home for a really long time to come. Maybe even forever!"
Marisol faintly chuckles at that, "I hope so, D. The housing situation in this city...it's not that great. We should be grateful--"
Tears of blood begin to flow down her cheeks and her voice cracks, "We should be grateful that mi abuela let us have a roof over our heads, D. I love you. I--I miss her so much, Diego. I--"
Diego pulls his girlfriend into a tight embrace, "Shh, shh, shh. Easy, easy. I love you, too. We'll be OK."
He kisses the top of her head and she leans in, sniffing.
She softly asks, "Will we survive this?" the sanguine tears continue to flow down her face.
Diego firmly replies, "Yeah. We will. I promise."
The 2 Ferals hold each other, and they say no more.
After a few minutes, Marisol redoes her makeup, checks her clothes, grabs her things, and gets on her scooter. She starts it up and drives off to work.
Diego stands in the doorway and watches her leave. He's worried, and the same can be said for Marisol. She'll grab a warm body on the way.
The night is dark, and Markham stands next to the Feral, watching the scooter get further and further away. The Feral's eyes are transfixed on his girlfriend.
The 2 Kindred are silent for a moment.
The Feral turns to the Baali and asks, "So, how are things going, d-man?"
Markham plainly replies, "All good, Diego. I don't intend to stay long. Once I'm done, I'll be out of here."
Diego chuckles at that, "Yeah. I'm gonna miss you, hermano. When you go back to Seattle, promise to keep in touch with your ol' pal?" he has a somewhat expectant look on his face.
Markham nods and answers, "Sure."
"Cool," Diego says. He's still not convinced. He knows that Markham is still withdrawn and cold, but he's been warming up over these past few nights.
He turns to Markham, "You sure everything's OK, homes? You got that...look on your face. Only Gringos like you could pull it off. That 'I'm-thinking-about-a-lotta-shit' kinda look, hahaha!"
Markham turns his gaze heavenwards, his gray eyes piercing the night. His mind is elsewhere; his thoughts are racing to and fro.
He says nothing for a moment, before saying, "Yes. Everything's fine. I've decided on something. I just need to approach it the right way and not rush into it."
Diego looks up at the night sky and shrugs, "Hmm. As Gangrel, we do like rushing into shit every now and then, hahaha! So, what is it that you've decided upon...if you don't mind me asking?"
Markham's jaw tightens, "I've decided to set up a meeting between myself and Luciano Donovan Junior...and Paul Cho, too. Hm."
Diego's eyebrows shoot up, "Whoa! The same busters who tried to 'off' you? You sure that's wise, ese? I mean, you are gonna have 2 mortals who put out a hit on your head! And we already know those assassinos don't play around."
The Baali responds, "I'll set the meeting in a public place. That way, those 2 won't try anything funny."
"You want me as backup?"
Markham firmly, but not rudely, replies, "No, Diego. This is my investigation, my case. I don't want you getting caught up in this mess and getting hurt or worse. You're a good man, and I don't want you to get in any trouble. It's best that you don't get involved, even if you are a...friend."
Diego's eyes do light up at that last part, "Friend, huh? Well, I'll take it, man. But are you sure you'll be OK handling them? If you're not comfortable, I'll go with you."
Markham's eyes narrow, "Yes. Once I set the meeting spot, I'll just need you to drop me off. I can handle the rest from there."
Burt's van comes screeching down the road and he parks it near the driveway. The driver's door flies open, and the rock star jumps out of the van, some blood on near his chin and mouth.
Markham's Sire is dressed in a button-down, leopard-patterned shirt, worn chinos, and sandals. He's also got some eyeliner on and is wearing a lot of cheap and tacky roadside jewelry.
He slings his guitar case over his shoulder and nods over at Diego and Markham, "Hey, rock stars! Crazy night, huh? Traffic in this place is something else."
Markham is slightly taken aback by his Sire's sudden appearance, but he hides his surprise well. He points out, "You got blood on your face, Burt."
Burt chuckles and licks his lips, "Oh, this? Yeah, it got messy. I didn't kill her- thankfully- but I'm pretty sure she knew what I was and wanted me to keep sucking her dry."
He rubs his fingers across the blood on his chin, "Ah, crazy. So, what's going on with you 2? Any plans for tonight? I thought we could hang out, play us some tunes, and have a good talk. I really did enjoy our last chat, y'know?"
Markham excludes himself from this, "I got some work to take care of. You and Diego could chill out together, though."
Burt playfully punches his Childe's arm, "Ah, c'mon, rock star. Spend a little time with your Sire. Besides, tonight's my last night. After this, I'm back on the road again. I'm done with this city. I...wouldn't rate it too highly."
Diego's expression falls, "What?! So soon? Already? Aww, c'mon, homes, we was just getting to know each other! You can't leave already!"
Burt winces a bit and explains himself, "I got something, someone, I gotta track down. I got a few solid leads. This is important to me, Diego. Why don't we go inside, and I can tell you and rock star here all about it, huh, what do you say?"
Markham sighs softly and concedes to spending some time with his Sire, "OK, fine. I can only spare a few minutes, Burt."
The 3 vampires head back into the house and talk about a whole bunch of things. Burt pulls out his guitar and begins to gently strum the strings, while Markham and Diego sit next to him and listen.
Diego clasps his hands together and inquires, "So, what is this 'important' thing you're gonna do, Burt? Are you gonna, what, hit the road and hit more of the clubs or something? Maybe restart your career?"
Burt shakes his head, "No, not exactly. Restart my career? Well, I was thinking of something, y'know, fashioning my legacy as a sort of comeback kid by coming back onto the rock 'n' roll scene in the year 2010. Maybe even re-releasing a few old albums of mine."
Markham dryly remarks, "2010's a...long way off, Burt. And with how ubiquitous technology is, doing a comeback after all these decades is kinda risky."
Burt presses his lips into a thin line and nods, "Well, you make good points there, kiddo. Still, I think it's kinda possible. Anyway, that's not even something I'm remotely worried about now, no..."
He pauses and plucks a few strings on his guitar, before saying, "No, it's the other thing. Remember, Markham?"
Markham's eyes narrow, "No? Not exactly? Remember what?"
Diego leans forward, curious to know what Burt's ambitions really are.
Burt playfully smirks and chuckles, "Ah, you really don't, huh? Remember when you were just a Fledgling sitting out on my porch, sipping bags of watered-down o-negative and we were talking about your new existence? Remember any of that, kiddo?"
Markham nods, "I do. I remember. Bits and pieces. Most of it...was buried under all that--that other stuff."
Burt smiles at his Childe sympathetically, "Well, remember what we talked about back then?"
Markham answers, "A lot. You gave me an Unlife 101. The Beast, our Bloodline, the other Clans, the Sects, the Masquerade, the whole shebang. Yeah, I remember. I hope you're not planning on a pop quiz here, Burt."
Burt leans back in his seat, laughs, and strums his guitar, "Hahahahahahah! Oh, no, nothing like that. As long as you still remembered the basics, then I did my job as your Sire. Nah, do you remember the...other thing that I spoke to you about?"
Markham looks away from his Sire, and his fingers tap against the side table, "Uh--I...I'm not sure. Even now, it's all still so foggy, Burt. I don't know why it's like that."
Diego clicks his tongue and winces, "Damn! That was truly some traumatizing shit you went through, huh, hermano?"
Burt says, "Ah, yeah, it was. Let's--let's not talk about it. Anyways, here's the gist of it..."
So, Burt has ambitions to join this Sect known as the Inconnu. They are an extremely secretive Sect of Kindred, and virtually nothing is known about them other than the fact that they renounce the Eternal Struggle and are said to be manipulating the other major Sects from behind the scenes.
Others claim they're tied to the Antediluvians, whilst others say their main goal is the pursuing of Golconda (sorta like vampire Nirvana, basically).
Burt explains, "There's no Inconnu office that I can just walk into and ask to join, haha! Over the many decades, I've clearly expressed my interests, but I got frustrated of waiting around for an invite."
As a result, he took (very) drastic and daring measures. He managed to stake a very high-level Agent of the Inconnu and abduct the body.
Down in Burt's basement, there's a staked body of that Agent. Burt showed the still body to his Childe and laid out his plans.
"Generation is a big deciding factor in joining the ranks of the Inconnu. I'm 7th Generation, just 1 Generation off from the set limit of 6th Gen or older. That guy's body is my ticket in."
Burt strums his guitar, and there's a sadness in his eyes.
Diego takes some time to piece what Burt has told him together. He gasps loudly, eyes widened in shock and horror, "You--you're gonna Diablerize that buster????"
Burt smirks and blandly says, "Yes. What of it? Is there a problem, Diego?"
Diego's voice cracks as he says, "Y--yes! I mean, n--no? I mean, that's so crazy, man!"
Burt elaborates, "Yeah, that clown down in my basement is a 6th Gen Setite. I would've Diablerized him years ago, but he'd just take over and that'd be the end of me. We can't have that now, can we?"
Markham has his cheek on his knuckles, and he's staring off into space, "Hmm."
Burt goes on, "But, no, I've got word of a special and magical dagger that's said to make Diablerie a whole lot easier. That's what I've been tracking these past few nights. Last I heard, a bunch of fucking no-good Sabbat cultists have that dagger box in their possession."
Diego leans forward, "Oh. Well, that's bad, man, but you've got something figured out, right?"
Burt nods confidently, "Yep! I lost their trail sometime back, but I know where they're heading. All I need is gas in my tank and enough money to take me around."
He goes on, "So, tonight's gonna be my last night in this city. After a few gigs tonight, I'm outta here. I might stop by and visit that Farooq guy that Markham here told me about- always good to see a fan out in the wild."
There's a longing look on Burt's pale face and he misses a few notes, "I'm not nostalgic by any means, but I do miss all the times I had with my groupies. Y'know, it was really wild back then."
He strums the strings on his guitar, and the sadness on his face intensifies, "I'll just be happy knowing I have a chance at joining the Order of the Inconnu. I know I have what it takes to be 1 of them."
Markham is still looking off into the distance while Diego is listening to the Baali rock star with rapt attention.
The rock star sighs and mutters, "Ah, well. Hey, Diego? Any song requests? Anything at all. You name it and I likely knew the songwriter in person, haha!"
The Gangrel states, "You should really think about that comeback kid thing, man! Plenty of busters would be lining up to see you work your magic again!"
Burt softly chuckles and waves a dismissive hand, "Ah, well, there's nothing I wanna do about it right now. Like Markham said: 2010's a long way off. All this new technology shows some kinda potential. I could try working with someone to get my music released digitally and stuff like that."
Diego thinks for a moment and then nods, "Yeah, that sounds like it could work. It might attract some attention from the bad guys, but eh...a little 'living-on-the-edge' is good every now and then."
Burt concurs, "Absolutely, just a little bit, however. And if you ever wanna get into this line, remember 1 thing."
Diego looks on with expectation. Even Markham sits up and pays attention.
Burt lifts his finger and warns the 2, "Nothing in this country destroys an artist faster than success. I know that firsthand. I let it get to my head, and it all came crashing down when those Sabbat maniacs unleashed hell upon me back in Greenridge."
He turns his head aside and gulps deeply. The Demon blinks a few times, "Anyways, uh...the point is, try not to let things get to your head, OK? The best and safest path is to keep doing what you're doing and live in the moment. Always try to aspire to speak to the broader concerns of the world. Remember that."
Diego nods, "Yeah, I get you. I'll remember that, homes. If I ever do get into it, I'll always keep that up in here," he taps the side of his head and smiles. "And always down here too," he points at his still heart.
Burt smiles from ear to ear, "I'm glad to hear that, Diego. A rock star's only as good as their next gig; that's also something you gotta keep in mind."
Markham gets up and excuses himself, "OK, I'll leave you 2 to it, then. Burt, goodbye. I guess. And thanks for putting my mind at ease. It was...eating away at me- not being able to remember wh--what happened that night."
Burt gets up and pulls his Childe in for a hug, "Hey, hey, hey, no worries, rock star. I'm glad I could help. If we don't ever see each other again for a long time, just know that I'm proud of you, alright? And never forget that."
Markham looks into his Sire's wild amber eyes, and the 2 embrace for a long time.
Burt breaks off and advises Markham, "You're doing good work at the SEC, right? I hope you can keep up that good work for many, many years to come."
Markham responds, "Thanks. I'm not planning on quitting, not until the job's done, anyway. After that, I'm not so sure. I've already been there for a long time and I'm starting to think that some of my coworkers might be getting suspicious of me not exactly aging."
Burt looks around, "Hmm. You're a smart guy, you'll figure something out, won't you? For now, enjoy the night and enjoy the company of your friend. He's been a good host to you, never forget that, OK?"
Markham looks at Diego and acknowledges all that the Feral has done for him over these past few nights. There's a hint of genuine gratitude on the Baali's pale face.
Diego does a thumbs-up and grins, "Anytime, homes! And thank you, Burt, for all the kindness and advice."
Markham says goodbye to his Sire and departs to the kitchen. He pulls out his laptop, plugs the charger in, locates the dusty ethernet cable and plugs that into his device, and then boots it up.
He spends the next few minutes sending an email to some coworkers and higher-ups, updating them on the progress of the investigation into LDJ and P-Money and saying how he's doing great (so far, it's not much, but it's a start).
While this is going on, Diego and Burt continue to talk with each other. They get along really well, and the Feral is eager to hear more about this Baali rock star's many adventures and the wild tales he has to share.
Raucous laughter, cheering, and guitar-strumming is heard throughout the evening. It's a short night before Burt has to go, but it's a good and memorable one.
An hour or so later...
Diego exhales and lets out a sharp whistle, "Wow, what a guy. What. A. Guy. Too bad we can't stay in touch. Man, I hope he does OK and gets all that he wants. He's a true rock star in my book. Even the way he talks and dresses...is--is so cool!"
Markham wraps up with his work and shuts his laptop, "Mm-hmm. He's got that effect on people, that's for sure. So, what's the plan now?"
The Outlander shrugs, "You got a place you need to be at, homes? You set up that meeting spot with those 2 pendejos yet?"
The Baali shakes his head, "Nope. Why don't we head out now? Neither of us have fed and I'm feeling a bit...hungry. Might as well find ourselves a warm body and you know all the good spots around here."
Diego is up for it, and the 2 Kindred leave the house and step out into the warm night breeze. They get in the pickup truck and Diego starts it up. It roars to life and the 2 are rolling down the streets in no time!
The Gangrel decides to take Markham to a nearby diner. There are a lot of alleyways and dark corners for the 2 bloodsuckers to hunt around. A lotta nooks and crannies to be found around this city, it would seem.
The 2 Kindred drive down the congested roads, and they see a few cars and trucks on the road. Diego turns on the radio, and some Spanish rap music starts to play.
Markham's eyes are transfixed on the outside world. He remains silent and deep in contemplation. His Hunger gnaws at him, but he has many other things on his mind right now.
Sating the eternal needs of the Beast within, however, is a must if he hopes to get anything done.
The duo soon pull up near a diner that has a large neon sign outside. There are some people sitting outside on scratched benches, and a couple of old men are smoking while having a heated discussion.
The pickup truck comes to a stop and Markham gets out. Diego points to the diner, "Not inside. Outside is where it's at. Lemme find a better parking spot, and I'll show you what I mean, aight?"
Markham plainly nods and shoves his hands deep in the pockets of his long trench coat. He stares out at the road ahead and waits patiently. Diego drives off to park his vehicle.
The surroundings are...quite deprived judging by the look of things. The diner's neon sign is flickering and the place inside appears quite empty, save for a few patrons sitting at their tables and talking amongst themselves.
It's not a place frequented by people from the upper echelon, then. Markham gazes at the old men outside and a few other passers-by. The area around is badly lit, the streetlamps either broken or falling apart.
The pavement is cracked and there are a few tents (for unhoused folk with nowhere else to go) scattered about, here and there. A few needles and generic-looking pill bottles are found near the overflowing trash cans.
Urban decay.
The scent of dog piss and other less-than-pleasant odors permeate the air. It's not exactly the most salubrious of neighborhoods. Deprived and willfully forgotten by the powers-that-be, it would seem.
There's a heavy cop presence on the periphery, and Markham spots them from the corner of his eye. The swine are holding their assault rifles, a very stiff look on their faces. A few even have bulletproof vests on.
He knows they're watching everyone closely, and the thought that they might catch him in the act of feeding is ever present in the back of his mind.
Moments later, Diego comes walking over, spinning his keys around his finger. He sees the Baali, "Welcome to the REAL Flimont City, homes! If the news ever talks about it, it's either to moralize or scare those suburban Gringos shitless. Hmph."
"Hmm, yeah. Sensationalism seems to be winning over facts these nights, Diego," the Baali replies. He has a stern look on his face.
He turns to the Gangrel and gives him a look, "So, you know a spot around here?"
The Feral grins and beckons to a tight alleyway, "Follow me. Take your pick and remember: no killing nobody. We don't need that shit on our consciences, right?"
"Absolutely."
The alleyway in question is rather narrow. Flies buzz about and hazy smoke permeates the air. The asphalt is cracked and worn away. A dumpster is at the end of the alley, and there's graffiti scribbled onto the brick walls.
There are a few folks, milling about and hanging around in the alleyway. They're huddled together, their eyes barely open, some about to stick needles in their arms. A few of them are talking, but they're all too tired to make coherent sentences.
Markham feels pity for these people, but his Beast impels him to just lunge forward at the nearest unfortunate sucker and sink his fangs into their neck. The warm blood coursing through their body would be a stimulant for his eternal thirst and fill him with delicious pleasure unlike any other.
It's an...alluring idea, but Markham remains composed and uses his Obfuscate Discipline to blend in with the darkness and lurk in the shadows of the alleyway. He's so close, so close, the blood beckons him, but he holds back.
Diego makes a strange whistling sound and beckons someone to approach him. His fangs pop out, and he bites down into the neck of a middle-aged woman, who's wearing a flimsy shirt, shorts, and cheap high-heeled sandals.
She yelps in surprise and fear, but her eyes gloss over and her voice goes husky, "Mmm..." she accepts the Kiss, a faint smile dancing on her rugged face, and her legs buckle.
Markham spots an older man rubbing his hands and muttering incoherently, his eyes wide open and darting about in the darkness. His mouth is agape. Markham silently moves close, puts a hand over the old guy's mouth, and bites him on the neck.
The Demon immediately feels a rush of life flood through him. The Beast be eatin' good tonight!
The old man tries to struggle, but Markham's grip is too strong, and the mortal is too weak to resist. After a short moment, the old man slumps over in Markham's arms. He's unconscious, and he won't wake up for at least a few minutes.
Before gently dropping the fella to the ground, Markham licks the wound shut and checks to make sure that the mortal is still alive. He's still breathing, so that's...acceptable.
The Baali then checks himself. He dusts some dirt off his clothing and goes over to Diego, who has just finished licking the fang-puncture wound on his victim's neck. She's still breathing, although a faint moaning sound escapes her mouth.
She's humming in a haze, and it looks as if she's just snapped out of a very pleasant dream.
Diego sucks some air through his teeth and silently leaves her be. The 2 Kindred emerge from the alleyway, revitalized and full of energy, ready to face the (many) challenges of the night ahead.
Markham takes a good look around, "So, what's next?"
Diego shrugs, "I believe you have a meeting to set with 2 spoilt rich brats?"
"Hm. Yeah. You wouldn't...happen to know where either Luciano Donovan Junior or Paul Cho live at, by any chance?"
The Gangrel shakes his head and mirthlessly chuckles, "Nah, man, sorry. Maybe it's 1 of them areas where you'll find all those rich Gringos. Plenty of places like that in this crazy city."
The Baali exhales and turns his attention to a nearby payphone. There's a massive phonebook next to the rusty box. He'll just need to browse through it to find LDJ's phone number and address.
The Baali goes towards the payphone and browses through the phonebook, while Diego paces around and whistles a tune. The Feral spots a woman in her early-20s.
She's got long, flowing red hair and chocolate-brown eyes. She's profusely sweating and holding what appears to be a map, but upside down. She looks so flustered and out of place.
Diego, being the helpful buster that he is, approaches her, "You lost, err--"
The redhead gasps at him and almost drops her map, "Oh! No, no, no, it's OK, I--I'm fine."
She sighs deeply and shakes her head, "Nope, no, I'm lost, I'm sooooo lost."
Diego warmly smiles and puts her at ease, "Hey, it happens. You're not from around here, huh? Name's Diego, by the way. You uh...got nice red hair, if you don't mind me saying that. That's rare around these parts. So, where you headed to?"
The redhead scratches the back of her head and introduces herself, "Hi, Diego. I'm M--Maya. I'm just sorta here in this big city, um...never mind. I'm trying to find the nearest B&B around here. You have that here, right?"
Firstly, Diego slowly takes her map and sets it right, much to the flustered embarrassment of the redhead. She's now seeing a map that has the right-side facing up.
He then directs her to a corner of the map, "Hm, yeah, no, you're near here. Just keep walking a few blocks, take this turn, and you'll be at the closest we do have to a B&B in this city. This city's confusing, and always, ALWAYS, look 4 times before crossing, alright?"
Maya nervously chuckles, "Um...s--sure thing. And thanks. This city is so...huge and--and confusing. I'm uh...more of a small-town gal myself, y'know?"
"I'm a big-city boy, haha!"
Maya laughs and mutters, "Well, anyway, I'm really, really grateful for your help. Um, Diego, right? If I ever meet do get lost in this city, what's the best place to offer a little direction and guidance?"
"In my opinion? Find a buster in a lowrider. They'll always help a chica in distress out. No questions asked, heh."
"Um...OK. I think I might hang around this diner first. My legs are kinda sore from all that directionless walking for hours on end, y'know?"
The Feral waves the mortal redhead goodbye and she trudges into the diner.
Markham is busy thumbing through the massive phonebook until he comes across LDJ's phone number. He pulls out some coins from his pocket and inserts them into the coin slot.
He dials the number, waits for a ring, and an irritated, entitled-sounding voice answers, "HEY! Where the fuck is my pizza, huh? You better not be holding back on the salami, ya hear?"
Markham groans a little and shakes his head, "Mr. Luciano Donovan Junior? I'm not your pizza guy. My name is Markham Reed, I'm with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission- the SEC- I'm reaching out to--"
Luciano gasps and almost chokes on the air, "I--I don't owe anyone any taxes! I'm licensed! What's that shit about? H--How do I know this ain't a scam or a crank caller, huh?" his tone is awfully defensive.
Markham sighs and explains, "No, no, it's nothing like that, Mr. Donovan. I would like to know if you're free anytime tonight or tomorrow evening. There are some...discrepancies that I need to clear up with you and your associate, a Paul Cho."
There's silence at the other end for a second, and then LDJ snorts, "Y--you're breakin' up over here..." he goes on to make some very obviously fake static and beeping sounds over the line.
Markham cringes at this weaponization of sheer incompetence. He's been in this line of work long enough to know when some squirming idiot is clearly stonewalling him.
He tries to keep the conversation going, "Are--are you serious, Mr. Donovan? The line's fine on my end."
The arrogant and entitled-sounding voice of LDJ cuts through, "Psssssh. Wiiizzzzzz. STTTTTSSSGGGHHHHH. I--I can't hear you--shhhhhgggsshsshsh. Fwwwwwwwshssshshhh."
Markham shuts his eyes and slowly breathes out, "Mr. Donovan, please stop this childish nonsense. I just wish to meet with you and clarify a few thi--"
"Bzzzzzzzt. Wsssssssshrrrrhghggh."
The Baali has had it. He furiously slams the payphone receiver and the whole thing wobbles and almost falls off. He glares at the phone and snarls, "Fucking idiot."
Luciano, meanwhile, smugly smirks to himself, "Ah, works every time, heh heh." He throws his head back and goes back to flipping through various TV channels.
Still, he does have an uneasy look on his face as he continues to flip through the channels until he lands on MTV. He picks up the phone again and dials the number of none other than his attorney/fixer, Gordon Pym.
The Pym Reaper answers, his voice strained and taut, "Luciano, I was just about to call you. We need to talk."
"Yeah. Listen, Gordo, I--I think I got a problem here."
The fixer grunts, "What now?"
"That...that...that fuckin' bozo called me! I did the thing where I faked static over the line and hung up on him, but I think he fucking knew! Wh--what do I do now, tell me, c'mon!"
"What you did was...childish and stupid, but it buys us time. I just landed a couple of minutes ago. Gimme some time to think this through, but we HAVE TO deal with Markham Reed."
"Yeah, y'know what, I don't mind spending another 60 large--"
Gordon firmly interjects, "Stop. Don't. Just...don't. We'll talk more about this in-person, but not tonight. I'm tired. I've been to the town where this Markham Reed was born and raised."
Luciano hisses, "I don't care about any of that, I just want this fucking cazzone (ITA: idiot) outta my fucking hair!"
"Hmm, you and me both, kid. Either way, I--I'm even more confused now than when I first heard of this Markham Reed. He's got some really deep and inscrutable secrets of his own, that's for sure."
Gordon sighs and adds, "But that's...for tomorrow. I'm tired now."
Luciano inquires, "So, how was your vacation?"
The Pym Reaper sternly retorts, "It was NOT a vacation, Luciano. It was business- it always is with a man like me. I met some...intriguing people, rubbed a few shoulders up in DC, the usual."
Luciano stupidly asks, "Did you meet the President?"
Gordo stifles a sigh, "No. Now, if there's anything else? No? Good. Stall as much as you can. We'll talk more about this tomorrow morning."
"Early morning?"
Gordon yawns loudly into the phone and counters, "Make it at noontime. Don't worry, kid, I'll come up with something by then...but it's gonna cost you. You understand that, right?"
Luciano nods, "Mm-hmm. I got money- lots of it."
"Hmm," Gordon tiredly grunts and hangs up the phone.
Luciano slouches back in his chair and scowls, "Fucking Gordon. Man, I don't know what I'd do without his shady and shrewd advice, but man..."
He shakes his head and checks the clock on the wall, "Mm, where the fuck is my pizza? I'm fuckin' starvin' here!"
Back to the diner...
The 2 Kindred have gotten themselves a booth in a corner. Maya the redhead is sitting on the far side of this establishment, hunched over and twiddling her thumbs. Her map is lying in front of her and she's gazing off into the distance.
She's still profusely sweating.
The diner itself looks fairly average. Bright white lights, shiny checkerboard flooring, walls that are either pale blue or lacking in color, and some very old, yellowed pictures of Flimont City through the decades.
It's rather empty save for a few people cutting about here and there. There's a jukebox by the wall, a few menu cards by the counter, and the kitchen doors swing open as servers in uniform come and go with plates of food.
The aroma of grilled cheese wafts through the air, but neither Diego nor Markham can really smell anything. The servers are all dressed in similar uniforms consisting of a blue candy-striped, buttoned shirt and a white apron with the diner's logo on it.
The logo is a smiling beaver, buck teeth visible, holding a spatula, and the text above it reads: "TIA'S DINER"
Markham's looking out the window at the outside world. His Motorola phone is in his pocket, and he's sitting with his hands folded on the table.
Diego sits across from him and breaks the silence, "Seeing that you almost assaulted that poor payphone back there, I take it that you have not been able to set up a meeting with those 2?"
Markham has a faraway look in his gray eyes, "Mm-hmm, I...that fucking guy actually did what--what kids do, Diego. He made these obviously fake static sounds and hung up on me. The nerve of these people. The fucking nerve."
"Wow. Immature and loaded? Hm, yeah, sounds about right. Busters like that, they don't ever to worry about nothing, y'know what I'm saying? They just take and take and take, and break shit up and expect someone else to pick up the pieces and clean up after them."
The Baali growls, "I see what you mean, Diego. Either way, I just want people like that to play fair and by the same set of rules as everybody else."
Diego sympathetically pats the Baali on the shoulder and shakes his head, "Ehhh, good luck with that, ese. I've been here long enough to know that there are different rules for different people, y'know?"
Markham stares off into space for a moment, before continuing, "That's what I'm trying to do, Diego. I'm just trying to ensure fair play, even if it might seem like a losing game, an uphill battle, at times. Someone's gotta do it."
The Outlander pointedly queries, "Even after seeing all the nasty shit here in Flimont City, you still trust and believe in the system?" his tone is questioning, but there's no hostility.
The Baali sighs softly, "Of course I do, Diego. I admit, it's not perfect, not by a long shot, but at its best, it works. Or--or it could work if we try hard enough."
Diego muses, "I suppose so, maybe, yeah, but me personally? I stopped believing in this shit a long time ago, hermano. Busters like me won't fare well in the system, y'know what I mean?"
The Gangrel exhales sharply, "The whole system is designed to keep people like us down. Hmph." He shakes his head and watches a few cars zoom down the street.
He frowns and adds, "I've been in and around this system long enough to know that it's pretty much designed to keep us down and...take away our will to do anything, really."
Markham sympathetically offers, "I'm sorry, Diego. Really, I am. We just have to...make do with what we have. It's flawed, cumbersome, and seems to be breaking down and falling apart with each passing night, but I really don't know an alternative. This is just the way it's been set up."
Diego slumps in his seat and sighs, "Mm-hmm. I guess you're kinda right, homes..." he trails off and a forlorn look crosses his face.
Markham observes, "I'm guessing that you're not really that...attached to the city itself?"
The Outlander quietly replies, "Not by a longshot, homes. If it wasn't for me and Marisol having our own place, we'd have skipped town a long time ago. Maybe try our luck in Santa Fe or New Jersey or something."
"Hm. Understandable."
Just then, a whole ruckus group of people (football players, judging by their attire) walk into the diner and take over any unoccupied tables and booths.
They're loudly chatting amongst themselves, clearly pumped up from a victory or whatever. There's a burly guy in a jersey with gold letters on the back. Another guy has a massive #1 foam glove on his hand.
The rest of these people seem to be the typical sports fans you'd find in any large city. They're all loudly laughing and joking about something.
Diego notes, "Looks like they won a game, huh, Markham?"
Markham looks over his shoulder, "Hm. It certainly does seem that way. My football days are behind me, anyway."
Diego smiles and his curiosity is piqued, "Whoa, hold on! YOU used to play football?"
The Demon slowly nods, "Mm-hmm. Small-town, high-school football mostly. Nothing beyond that."
And with that, Markham divulges more about that part of his mortal past. He was clearly quite good at tossing the ol' pigskin around, it would seem.
Maya is overwhelmed by the crowd. She promptly gets up, smiles awkwardly, and brisky walks out. Her map flutters to the floor, but she's too flustered to pick it up.
One wishes her the best of luck and hopes that she finds her way through this crushing hellscape of a city. It's mean to people like her and Diego. And it's absolutely cruel to people who are far worse off than that.
At the back of the diner, the waitstaff shuffle around to bring food and beverages to the crowded tables. Burgers, fries, sandwiches, shakes, the usual yummies.
Chefs wipe sweat off their foreheads and go back to flipping patties, the sizzling sound of which can be heard from where the cashiers are being overwhelmed by orders and whatnot.
The pressure is clearly mounting owing to the influx of hungry customers!
A waitress approaches the 2 vampires, "Sorry for the wait, guys. We're kinda swamped here tonight. What'll it be?" She's got a pen and a notepad ready.
Oh, right. It's a diner these 2 immortal blood-drinkers are sitting in! And one is expected to order something to eat or drink in a place like this! Yikes! Not doing so would be hella suspicious, or eyebrow-raising at the very least!
Diego shuffles out of his seat and says he's got some work to take care of, leaving Mr. Reed alone with this waitress chick.
She looks to be in her 30s and is of average weight, and she is fairly tall. She's got a sort of victory rolls hairstyle going on and her makeup is fairly on-point. Her skin is fair and there are some light bags under her eyes.
Her golden nametag reads: "Rhonda".
Markham stares at her, jaw slightly agape, as Diego drives by in his pickup truck.
Markham waves her off, "Oh, no, it's fine."
Rhonda smiles awkwardly, "You gotta order something, or else, I gotta throw you out. And I don't like throwing potential customers out." She chuckles a little and scratches the back of her head.
Markham blinks and scans the menu card, "Uhhhh...I'll have a...glass of water. Room temperature." Even that's not gonna agree with him, but he's gotta do something to blend in.
Rhonda's eyebrows shoot up, and she bites her lower lip, "Alright. A glass of water it is. You from around here, mister--"
Markham, for whatever reason, gives her his real full name in lieu of his fake name, "Reed. Markham Reed. N--No, I'm here for work. I uh...work for the SEC. I've been living in Seattle."
He's not sure why he's telling her all this. Maybe it's because she reminds him of someone from his past? Right now, he's not sure who. But she certainly does!
Rhonda smiles, "Oh, Seattle, huh? Yeah, I'm from New Jersey." She says it like "Nooh Joisey" as she scribbles down something in her notepad.
Markham nods, "I can tell. Your accent." He looks around and asks, "So, how long have you been working here?"
"Mm, a couple of years now. How long you planning on staying in this city for?"
"Not long. Once I'm done, I'm going back to Seattle. This city...it's just not for me."
The waitress chuckles along, shrill and high-pitched, "Yeah, I hear ya, pal. I know what you mean. I've got my own reasons for sticking around."
"Ah, I see. And what would that be, if you don't mind me asking?"
Rhonda grins at him, "Lemme get your water first." She shoots him a smile and walks off.
Markham gazes out the window and sees the lights of the city. Why was he just so open and easy with some random waitress? Something about her reminds him of someone.
Amidst the boisterous chaos in the diner (loud sports types, what do you expect?), the Baali mulls some things over in his troubled and tired mind. He's exhausted from that short phone call with that mortal twerp, Luciano. He's just...exhausted.
He thinks about the person that Rhonda reminds him of. It takes some time, but it clicks just as the waitress comes to his table with a tall glass of H2O.
Markham nervously looks at it and then looks up at Rhonda. He smiles a little, "Ah. Um...thanks, Rhonda."
She pulls out her notepad and readies her pen, "So, Markham? Make up your mind yet? Between me and you, I'd avoid the egg sandwiches. Trust me."
Markham slowly nods, "Right. I'll be sure to keep that in mind. Um...you know, you remind me of someone--"
Rhonda holds up her hand and shakes her head, "Oh, great, just when I was starting to like ya. There's a reason I don't wear pigtails to work anymore."
Markham assures her, "Oh, no, no, it's nothing like that. Nothing at all. You remind me of--of someone from my past- my older sister, Daniella."
Rhonda is surprised, "Oh, OK. Now, that's new. You keep in touch with her?"
Markham softly sighs and a look of sadness forms on his face, "She died a long time ago." He pauses and looks at Rhonda, "I'm sorry, I shouldn't have brought this up."
Rhonda dismissively waves her hand, "Eh, it's alright. We all need a shoulder to cry on. So, should I put ya down for a grill cheese?"
Ah, right, that. Yikes.
Markham declines, "I'm not hungry. I...just ate, actually. I came in here with my friend to sit down for a while, but he had to leave."
"Ah, OK. No problem. As long you're ordering something, anything, you're welcome here. If you DO change your mind, lemme know, alright?" she smiles and walks off to another table, ready to take their order or collect a tip.
Markham sits there, staring at the glass of water. It's not blood. It's clear and smells of nothing. He doesn't want to drink it, but he knows he has to. Just for appearances' sake. And to blend in.
He sighs and brings the glass to his lips. It tastes ashy as he gulps it down and he grimaces and winces as he swallows. It feels like sand going down his throat. He sets the glass down and wipes his mouth.
He groans softly, "Oh, god. That's awful."
Markham feels weird in his undead stomach. The Beast within sharply disagrees with this pathetic non-sanguine liquid. It wants nothing but blood! It demands blood. It needs blood. And it's not getting any!
Markham shuts his eyes and breathes out, "Ugh." He looks around and sees that Rhonda is busy with another table. She nods to the customers, forces a smile, and pockets the measly tip they left her.
Damn. Chicks like her practically live on the tips because the pay isn't so great. Markham's seen this sort of thing before, but it never fails to make him feel kinda bad.
Service workers deserve so much better.
The mortal waitress goes back to the kitchen to pick up more orders and comes back to the dining area to deliver them to their respective tables. The food smells pretty good, but Markham knows that it'll taste like ash and sand in his mouth.
He forces a few whiffs of the food passing by, but no strong feelings come over him. He's just...numb to it all. He doesn't even miss mortal food and drink that much. His Beast is too angry to be hungry. It's demanding blood. Blood. BLOOD. And it's not getting any.
All it got was water. Markham is starting to feel uneasy in whatever counts as his digestive system. He feels a sharp pain in his abdomen and he groans softly. He looks around and sees that Rhonda is going back and forth, deftly balancing plates of food on her arms.
She's clearly an experienced server, and she's quite good at her job. She's quick on her feet, and she's got a good memory. She knows which table ordered what, and she's able to remember what each customer ordered.
The notepad and pen are mostly for show, it would seem.
A few minutes later...
Rhonda has gotten out of her uniform and joins Markham at his table. The loud sports types have either filed out or reduced their volume to more reasonable levels. The diner is still pretty packed, though.
Rhonda smiles at Markham, "So, Markham? What do you think of the city so far?" she's got a cup of coffee in front of her.
"It sucks."
Rhonda laughs out loud, "Hahahahahahaha! Oh, yeah. You're a real one, alright! Hahahahahahahaha! I like you, Markham. I really do."
Markham awkwardly chuckles along, "Heh, um, thanks. I guess." He pauses and asks, "So, uh, what about you? What's someone from all the way in Hoboken, New Jersey doing out here in the Midwest?"
Rhonda is off her shift now, so she's more relaxed. She sips her bitter coffee and shrugs, "Eh, it's a long story, but the short version is that I'm here because I got nowhere else to go."
"I'm sorry to hear that."
"Hmm, yeah. It wasn't my fault that--that the college I was going to was a fuckin' fraud, a scam. And there I was, a 2nd year accounting student, and then they pull the rug out from under us. Bastards."
Markham nods, "I see. That's awful. I'm sorry to hear that. What exactly happened?"
Rhonda has a sour look on her face and she explains, "The whole college was a fucking scam, Markham. They were taking large sums of money from us and giving us nothing in return. It was a fucking joke."
"Oh. I'm sorry to hear that."
"Yeah, well, I ain't the only one. By the time I found out those degrees they were giving out were as worthless as used toilet paper at a nursing home, it was too late for a lotta us."
Markham offers, "I'm truly sorry to hear that, Rhonda. It sounds like you've been through a lot since then."
Rhonda sighs, "Yeah, well, it's all in the past now. I lost so much money, including my life savings, on that goddamn place. At this rate, it'd take me 10-15 years to break even and clear out most of my...outstanding debts."
"Jesus. That bad, huh?"
Rhonda's New Jersey accent gets more prominent and she clicks her tongue, "Oh, you bet, Markham. That place really screwed a lotta good people over, y'know?"
The Demon nods, "Yeah, I hear you. But what drew you to this city in particular?"
Rhonda mirthlessly chuckles, "Oh, that's the kicker. That 'college' I was talking about? It was right here in this godforsaken hellhole of a city."
Markham responds, "Knowing what I know about this city and its upper echelons, I can't say I'm too surprised by that. So, what exactly happened with this fake university?"
Rhonda drinks her coffee, "Ah, that. I'm not a super-smart gal by any means. And the papers barely touched on it, y'know? It was uh...embezzlement, fraud, something called insider trading, I dunno. There were all these complicated terms being tossed about."
"Uh-huh."
Rhonda sets her coffee down and sighs, "All I know is that those assholes knew about what they were doing. We tried, y'know, protesting, writing to our elected representatives, but they didn't give a flying damn, Markham."
She exhales sharply, "It was--it was as if they just didn't give a fuck, y'know? They just let it happen and let us keep paying. I--I kinda had a feeling that they were in on it, too, y'know? A little um...piece of the pie, a little cream so they look the other way."
"Yeah. It would certainly seem that way. Anything's possible."
Rhonda clicks her tongue and looks off into space for a bit. She then asks, "Y'know what it's like, Markham? To sacrifice everything you've got saved up for a better and more decent future only for it to get swallowed up by a bunch of greedy, slimy assholes who don't care about anyone but themselves?"
Markham sighs, "Mm. It's an all too familiar story these nights." He looks around and he can sense that something is wrong, but he can't tell what.
Rhonda perches an eyebrow, "'Nights'? Lemme guess, you're 1 of those freaks who work really odd hours and have all sorts of crazy schedules, huh?" she laughs a little, but the laughter soon peters out and is replaced by a faint smile.
Markham nervously nods, "Heh, yeah, something like that. I'm sorry about what happened. I guess that experience left a sour taste in your mouth and completely put you off from pursuing higher education?"
Rhonda nods her head, "Mmm-hmm. I figured why even bother. I'd just be digging a bigger hole of debt for myself. Besides, even if I did get my degree, there'd be no guarantee of me getting a job after that."
She inhales and exhales sharply, "Yeah, the whole job market in this city kinda sucks; you gotta know somebody who knows someone who knows a guy if you even want a foot in the door."
Markham agrees, "From what I've seen and heard, I can't argue with that. This city is a mess in so many different ways."
Rhonda scoffs and adds, "Hfff. Yeah. There was a name that kept popping up, y'know, when we found out about all the monkey business and crap going on under our very noses. There was this guy who kept showing up. This name, it kept popping up, y'know? Repeatedly."
Markham leans closer, his hands clasped together, "Oh. Who?"
"Luciano Donovan Senior. Real piece of work. Shady guy. We uh...protested in front of his house, demanding answers. You know, a whole angry mob of college students who lost a lot of their hard-earned cash to a fucking sham."
"Hmm. What did you want to do?"
"Plenty! 1 of us was thinking of firebombing his fancy digs with some molotovs. You know how Maoists are, haha. Anyway, the others said that he probably had a lotta guns stashed around his house and that he probably knew how to use 'em. So that didn't work out too well for us."
"What happened then?"
Rhonda rolls a shoulder, "Eh, we protested, wrote letters, some of us chained ourselves to the railings while others held up 'tasteful' signs at a bridge for a while. But nothing changed."
She ruefully continues, "I guess this is just how things are. It's like nothing can be done to change them, y'know? We tried and tried and fuckin' tried everything in our power to hold someone accountable, but they all got away with it in the end."
She holds up her coffee cup and sarcastically remarks, "Cheers to all those fat cats. I hope they're enjoying our fucking money!"
Markham sighs softly. The pain in his abdomen has abated, but there's still some lingering discomfort in the area. The Beast has been quieted (for now), but that water's gonna come out as scarlet vomit before he knows it.
Rhonda sighs, "Sorry if I got a little heated there, Markham. But...y'know...it's a lot. And I dunno why I just felt so comfortable talking about it all to a literal stranger who I met."
Markham smiles sadly, "Yeah. You've definitely been through a lot, that's for sure. How exactly did you come to work in a...diner of all places?"
Rhonda groans, "I was done with books, debit, credit, exams, calculators, what goes in what column, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera. It was too much, and I guess I sorta wanted a change of scene. Maybe."
Markham lifts his chin, "And how's the service industry treating you so far? Is it the change of scene you wanted or...?"
The question lingers in the air for a moment or 2.
Rhonda sees a coworker walking past her. She warmly smiles at them and waves goodbye. She looks around to make sure that her superiors aren't nearby.
Then, she turns to Markham and says, "Yeah, well...the grass ain't exactly greener on the other side. That's what they say, right?"
Markham softly laughs and looks at the glass of water before him.
Rhonda nods over to it and smirks, "Drink up. I was thinking of giving it to you from the tap, but I cracked open a fresh bottle just for you."
Oh, dear. Well, it was awfully considerate of her, but that was a wasted effort.
Markham exhales through his nostrils and lifts his eyes up from the table to meet Rhonda's gaze. He's smiling, but his smile doesn't reach his eyes.
To be nice to this fine lady, he holds up the glass of water, "Cheers." He gulps down some more of the clear liquid and sets the glass down.
Rhonda is grinning.
Markham swallows it, and then his face contorts.
Rhonda's expression changes, "Oh, you uh...allergic to water, Markham? It's mineral water."
The Baali shakes his head, "No, no. I'm more used to it straight from the um...tap. Mineral water just tastes different. I'm not a big fan."
Rhonda shrugs and takes a quick sip of her coffee, "So, tell me more about you? You're an interesting guy, Markham from Seattle. I don't know why I felt comfortable sharing details of my past with you, but I just did. Funny, huh?"
Markham acknowledges her with a nod, "Mmm. It certainly is something. I feel the same way around you, Rhonda. You really do remind me of her, y'know. Daniella. She--"
Crying tears of blood would be a SEVERE breach of the Masquerade, so Markham really has to keep his emotions in check around this mortal woman.
Rhonda sees Markham struggling, "I--I'm sorry. I didn't mean to make you--"
The Demon softly assures her, "No, no, it's OK, Rhonda. Something about...you reminds me of her. She was so full of life and a real social butterfly. You've got that same energy."
Rhonda smiles at this and blushes, "Aw, you're sweet, Markham."
Markham is not sure if he should disclose how his older sister died. Instead, he vaguely says, "She died in a hit-and-run. And--and that's all I feel comfortable talking about regarding that. Sorry."
"It's fine. It's totally fine, Markham."
Markham rubs his eyes. It's not just his Beast that's stirring inside him, but his human emotions, too. A guy like him, so cold and withdrawn, is always searching for anchors. Add to that the trauma surrounding his Embrace (and eventual Re-Embrace), and he's...not that well of a guy.
He takes a deep breath and exhales through his nostrils. He smiles sadly, "Well, um--I...I'm originally from this little town a few miles east of DC called Greenridge. Moving to Seattle was more of a career choice for me."
"And...how's your job so far, huh? The one with the SEC?"
Markham winces, "Mm, it's...it's fine. Yeah, it's going great." It's really not. Or it's about to get a whole lot worse in the coming nights.
Rhonda grins, "Hey, I know when a guy is lying, y'know? And that right there? Total BS. What is it? You hate your job? The boss being a dick? You got turned down for a promotion and a raise? C'mon, talk to me."
Markham shuffles in his seat a little, "It's this case I'm working on, actually. I--I'm not--I can't exactly give you details of an ongoing investigation, Rhonda."
She laughs a little, "Right, of course. Classified. I get it. I know how crazy everyone's acting these days. All that 'national security' talk. Everyone's a terrorist, blah blah blah, yeah."
Markham lifts his chin and turns his head aside, "Yes, there's...a lot of tension in the air recently. Especially here." He thinks about his current investigation and winces again.
Rhonda sighs and her smile withers, "Yeah. This is a messed-up country in a messed-up world, you know?"
"Mm-hmm. I do what little I can to make sure that everybody plays fair and by the same rules."
Rhonda grins at this. She then sighs and bites her lower lip, "You know, Markham from Greenridge. It's been real interesting chatting with ya. You got any places to be at this time of the night?"
"Nope. Not really. You?"
Rhonda shakes her head from side to side, "Me neither. I'd just go back to my crappy place, flop down on the couch like a sack of potatoes, and watch some cheesy soap operas that usually don't make sense, but it's the only thing on my TV. You?"
Markham smiles at her sense of humor, "Eh, not much, I guess. I'd usually just go back home after work, throw back and think about my life choices. After that, I'd fall asleep till I wake up to do it all over again."
Rhonda pouts, "Aww, ain't that sad. So, no girlfriend or wife or something?"
"Nope."
"Ah, I get it. You're gay, right? Hey, nothing wrong with that. Some of my dearest friends like their eggs scrambled, some like it hard-boiled, y'know? Not a big deal to me. No problem with it at all. In fact, I even got this really good friend who's into--"
Markham quickly corrects her, "No, no. Not at all. I'm just not interested in or looking for that kinda thing right now. It's simply not a priority."
Rhonda playfully shoves him, "Yeah, I bet you were a real looker back in high school, huh? Lemme guess, you got crowned Prom King once upon a time?"
Markham shakes his head and lets out a tiny chuckle, "I did play a lot of football in high school. Small town girls, oh, they ate that up with a spoon, heh. But I never did get crowned Prom King. That was my friend, Jack. He's dead now, though."
"Oh, I'm sorry to hear that."
"Hmm. It was a long time ago, Rhonda."
In his case, it was a VERY long time ago!
The mortal waitress hums some more, "You know, you're an interesting guy. Not like the usual greaseballs who come in here and start acting all funny with me. Maybe that's why we can get along? I'm curious, what else is there to know about you? What's your hobbies? What are you into?"
"Not much, really. It's just work, home, sleep, rinse and repeat. I keep my head down most of the time and try not to draw any unwanted attention."
"Yeah, sounds like a real blast. How are you so--so good at keeping it together?"
"Keeping what together?"
Rhonda laughs, "Your job, your life, everything."
Even Markham does wonder that same thing every now and then. HOW the hell has he managed to keep it together after all these years?
He looks back at the mortal woman and simply says, "I dunno. I guess it's just who I am as a...person."
Rhonda leans closer, her chin propped up by her hands, "I think there's more to you than what meets the eye, Markham Reed. A lot more."
No arguing with that!
Markham admits, "I guess you could uh...say I'm always searching."
Rhonda lifts an eyebrow, "Oh, for what? Or who?"
The Demon Worshipper shrugs, "Just...searching for anchors, y'know, trying to find a way to stay human in increasingly inhuman times a--and surroundings. Or...at least, what passes for human in these crazy times."
Rhonda gives him a sympathetic look, "Hey, it's alright. I understand. I listened to that song by David Bowie. 'I'm Afraid of Americans'. Yeah, I'm kinda afraid of us sometimes, y'know?"
"Ah, yeah, that one. It's a great song. You see the music video, too?"
"Yeah, Trent Reznor's a hottie in that. Those eyes of his, oh, gosh." She's blushing and she bites her lip just thinking about him.
Rhonda exhales sharply, "Yeah. You know, it's like...there's this sense of desperation that's gripping this country right now, you know? Wars, school shootings, cops being violent, people not having enough, and so on."
She takes a moment to pause and recollect herself, "There's just so many ways that we CAN die o--or get hurt out here, y'know? We're supposed to be living in the greatest nation in the world, but I don't feel so great and mighty, Markham."
The lady lets out a sharp and tired sigh, "Hell, I can barely make ends meet these days, y'know..." she trails off and emptily stares at her coffee cup.
Markham nods his head and reaches out to hold her hand.
Rhonda twitches at how unusually cold his hand is, but she appreciates the friendly gesture all the same.
Markham clears his throat, "Well, Rhonda. I'm sorry for all you've been through." He knows that she has lost a lot in her short life on this planet.
Rhonda smiles sadly at him, "Thanks. And I'm sorry about your losses, too. Losing your big sister must've been tough on you. That hit-and-run. What was her name again?"
"Daniella. Her name was Daniella. We used to call her Dani most of the time, though."
Rhonda squeezes his cold hand tighter and says, "I bet she was a wonderful sister to you."
"Oh, yeah, absolutely. She was someone I could confide in a--and--and even look up to when I had my own doubts and didn't know where else to turn."
Rhonda softly smiles at him and then she looks around.
She turns back to Markham and observes, "You've got cold hands, Mr. Reed. Did ya just step out of the freezer in the back or something, haha!"
Markham evasively answers, "It's a...genetic thing, I suppose."
Kinda veering into Masquerade breach territory here.
Rhonda perches an eyebrow, "Ahh, sounds interesting. But, seriously, you're cold. Get a heater or try taking a walk when the sun's up. It'll do ya wonders. Just make sure to lather up in sunscreen first, hahahahaha!"
Yeah, not gonna happen. Like, ever. Nuh-uh, sister.
Regardless, Markham warmly smiles and chuckles at this, "Haha, I'll be sure to do that."
Rhonda lets go of his hand.
She then says, "So, uh, I--I dunno if this is too forward of me, Markham, but uh...thank you. Y'know, I just expected tonight to be another shitty 'day at the office' but you're coming here kinda brightened up gloomy ol' Rhonda's night, y'know?" she shyly chuckles a bit.
Markham smiles widely (very rare!), "There's no need to thank me, Rhonda. Truth is, I've had a really nice time chatting with you."
The Baali is strongly considering having Rhonda as his Touchstone. He already has his co-worker, Jamie, back in Seattle, but it wouldn't hurt to have 1 here, too.
Besides, Rhonda is a really compelling mortal. Maybe it's those eyes of hers- that sparkle in them is similar to the sparkle in Daniella's eyes, and Markham is just desperately seeking for a way to hold on to her memory.
Perhaps it's Rhonda's vibes? Is that what the kids call it these days?
Anyway, Markham's smile fades away and he turns his head aside to see the city slowly moving (crumbling apart) before him, "I just popped in here to--"
He feels the undead hairs on his Unliving body stand on end. It feels like he's being watched, like there are eyes (with ill intent) watching him, burrowing deep into his skull. He winces, groans, and a sharp pain forms in his head.
Could it be the water he drank earlier? No. This feels more like his bestial senses (6th, maybe even 7th) kicking into maximum overdrive. He can't explain how or why, but he knows that he's being watched.
He knows this like he knows the sun will rise in a few hours. And for whatever reason, he feels an almost primal urge to lose his tail(s).
Rhonda looks at him, side-eyed, "Markham? You alright? You blanked out there. You look like you saw a ghost or somethin'." She laughs. It sounds forced.
The Demon looks around the diner and notices nobody out of the ordinary, "Actually--never mind. Call it a job hazard. You uh...never know who's watching, heh."
In truth, a few tables over, there sat none other than 1 of Mr. Strickland's soliders. And they are staring at Markham from afar, face concealed by the menu card they're pretending to look through.
They're dressed fairly blandly, so as not to attract attention to themselves.
This is exactly why Markham is uncomfortable around Rhonda right now. He's afraid that she might get caught up in this mess.
The assassin in question has a tall glass of strawberry milkshake on their table and they watch the whole scene unfold. They're not able to hear what the vampire and the mortal are conversing about, but their orders are STRICTLY reconnaissance only.
Mr. Reed shrugs and shakes his head, "Nah, never mind. Maybe it's just my frayed nerves, hmm?"
Rhonda opines, "If that's the case, then some malt whiskey will really help you chill out, Markham!" she laughs and leans back into her seat. It squeaks under her weight.
The Baali chuckles, "Yeah, maybe."
He sniffs and leans forward, "I'm sorry about what happened with your whole college thing, Rhonda. I--I can't make promises, but I'll try to look into it a bit more if I get the time."
Rhonda's eyes light up a bit, "Oh? R--Really? They wrote some articles about it recently, but I gave up on--on there being any resemblance of justice after the whole thing happened. You know, justice for us, justice for those who got scammed by being promised the world. We tried, Markham. But--"
She inhales and exhales, "--But we failed in the end. They promised us the world but all we got now are--are crushing debts, shattered dreams, broken lives."
Her eyes water a bit and she shudders, "We were just young kids lookin' to make something better, y'know?"
The Baali equably responds, "I can talk with some of my superiors at the SEC. Maybe we did investigate the financial malfeasance at your college years ago, but I'll look more into it, Rhonda. Maybe something's still...waiting to be discovered. Turned over, even."
Rhonda's eyes sparkle, "Really, Markham? You mean it?"
"I can't make promises. All I can say is that I'll try. I shouldn't be saying this, but we've been struggling a lot at the SEC over the years. The usual: funding cuts, staff issues, and political and bureaucratic bullshit. I can't make any promises, but I'll try. Maybe there's something that hasn't been looked into. It's all I can offer you, Rhonda."
"Anything helps, Markham. Anything! I don't want you to get into trouble with your bosses."
"You let me worry about that."
Rhonda blows her nose with a tissue and tosses it inside her empty coffee cup, "You know, uh...some people were so broken after the whole thing that they uh--they uh--killed themselves."
Markham winces and his face tics, "That's awful!"
"Mm-hmm. Yeah. They really promised us the world, and they didn't even give us a fucking grain of sand. I fought with my uncle and aunt to go to that place. They wanted me to go to something more well-established, but I was as stubborn as a mule. And look where it got me in the end."
She lets out a sharp breath and gestures around to reinforce her point, "Yeah, my aunt wasn't too trusting of some place that just popped up almost overnight, y'know? The recruiters who came to Jersey were all so sleek and slick with their fancy clothes, fancy cars, fancy watches, all of that."
She clears her throat and sighs, "They were like sharks, Markham. And we were swayed by the promises, y'know? My uncle said he knew someone at Harvard, but I kicked and screamed for the Clearwater Institute."
Rhonda stares deeply into the last dregs of her coffee. The bitter flavor lingers in her mouth. She mutters, "Ugh. By the time we got there, it wasn't long before things started to unravel: shitty dorm rooms leaking water, crazy rules, bad food, out-of-date textbooks, blah blah blah."
Markham clicks his tongue, "That's--that's terrible. Nobody should ever have to be scammed like that."
"Hmph. Tell me about it. By the end of it all, my aunt and uncle disowned me and cut off ALL contact. Can't blame 'em, y'know. So, I had to fend for myself and clear out any outstanding debts, too. So, here I am, slogging away in this place..."
Markham dryly remarks, "Slinging hash in a hash house."
Rhonda snickers at that.
Markham feels a surge of thick something rising from his gut and into his throat. Oops! That water is about to come out! The vamp quickly excuses himself and briskly walks to the washrooms.
A moment or so later...
He looks at himself in the grimy mirror, as if staring into what remains of his very "soul". Unhealthily pale as a sheet and, he can't say that he doesn't look like someone out of a Victorian horror story these nights.
His reflection looks haunted and fraught with pain. He looks tired, too.
Markham takes a deep breath and shakes his head. He splashes some warm water all over his face and tries the nearby automatic hand-dryer, but it's busted. The tissue dispenser is empty as well.
Thankfully, he never leaves home without a large handkerchief! He dabs that on his face and goes back.
When he steps out, Rhonda's still sitting there, dreamily staring out the window. Cars pass by and the occasional police or ambulance siren can be heard in the not-so-far distance.
Rhonda turns to Markham and smiles as he slides back into his seat, looking no different than he did a minute ago. She's been waiting for him.
She leans over and asks, "So, uh...how long are you planning on being in this city, anyway?"
"Not for long. Once I'm done with my investigation, I'm out."
"Yeah, I wish I could do that, too."
"If you could start over, where would you like to be?"
Rhonda sucks some air through her teeth and takes time to answer that open-ended query, "Eh. Maybe Magnolia City o--or maybe Las Estrellas. They got a lotta casinos down there in Las Estrellas. Not that I'd ever gamble, but it'd be fun to see them, y'know?"
The waitress is feeling good around this nocturnal predator part of a Bloodline of (alleged) devil worshippers, so she continues, "What about you, huh? Seattle the place or are you thinking of somewhere else?"
"I like Seattle. It's not infested with traffic like this place, for starters."
"Hah! Yeah, traffic in this place is fucking nuts, Markham! It's a good thing I live close by, but getting back to my place is like doing 1 of those mazes on those kiddy magazines. The amount of times I've almost been run over is--is NOT funny! Haha!"
Markham stiffens up when that last part is said. It's a little too close to what happened to poor Dani. His lips quiver a little bit. His throat constricts slightly.
He doesn't feel the pangs in his "stomach", but he doesn't feel too great, either. Rhonda notices his change in demeanor.
Her expression softens, "Oh. I--I'm sorry."
From there, the conversation between these 2 drifts hither and yon. They talk about their respective pasts, but Markham has to be sure to at least sound his mortal age (43) and not his actual cumulative age (pushing 70).
Rhonda's laughter is shrill and pretty. She's very expressive and quite animated. A bit rough around the edges, but not too much. She's authentic and isn't afraid to share her experiences with anyone caring to listen.
Markham appreciates that kind of authenticity. Too many fakes out there these nights.
After some time, Rhonda looks at her wristwatch and exclaims, "WOW! Haha, this is the time I usually snooze off with the TV shopping network."
She pauses, then she grins at Markham, "You know, I'd uh--I'd like to thank you for tonight."
"It was a pleasure talking with you as well, Rhonda," Markham slightly bows his head and walks with her to the exit of the diner.
Rhonda heads to the back and returns with a box containing a single hamburger.
She smiles warmly at the bloodsucker and says, "I'll uh...hope to see you around, then? This burger's for a...friend of mine. Homeless guy. Sweet guy who just fell on a bit of a rough patch, y'know?"
Markham nods slowly, "Yeah. Anyway, my investigation has run into a hurdle, so I guess I'm stuck here until it's resolved. It shouldn't take too long. Hopefully."
Rhonda bites her lip and playfully smacks his shoulder, "Aw, c'mon. There's a silver lining to every cloud. That's what my tarot-reading neighbor told me. I don't buy that woo-woo stuff, but it's kinda funny to dip your toes in the woo-woo water every now and again, y'know?"
Markham laughs a little and shakes his head, "Yeah, I guess so. Take care, Rhonda. I'll be seeing you around."
She smiles at him and bids farewell before exiting the diner. The heavy door closes behind her and that's the last thing Markham sees of her for the rest of the night.
The assassin slinks into their seat but keeps their eyes steadily trained on the vampire's back as he also leaves the diner.
Mr. Reed exits the diner and looks around. A van pulls up next to him and a woman steps out.
It's Diana! Her stuffed animal dangles from her rearview mirror. She rubs her hands together and her attention is immediately drawn to the Baali, his hands deep in his trenchcoat pockets.
The professional cleaner narrows her eyes and slowly approaches him, "Ma--Markham? Markham Reed?"
Markham's back stiffens up when his real full name is mentioned. He looks at this woman, eyes narrowed. Who is she? How does she know him?
He turns to Diana, "Yes. Can I um...help you?"
Diana points to herself, "It's me!"
"I'm sorry, I don't--"
"You--you really don't? Does the last name Moskowitz ring a bell by...by any chance?"
When he was still a fraud investigator, Markham had a co-worker with that last name. They worked on some cases together, if memory serves correctly.
Diana rubs her baggy eyes, and she looks absolutely tired and worn the hell out.
Markham slowly nods, but remains on-guard VERY much, "Yeah. I do. You are...?"
Diana spreads her arms out wide and smiles, "It's me! Diana Moskowitz! You really don't--oh wait."
She stops and explains who she really is, "OK, this is kinda complicated. You remember a--a little b--boy by the name of Dino? You watched me for some time while my dad went out to um...run some errands, I think?"
She pauses for a moment, then she laughs, "Wow. You really don't remember, do you? That's OK! That's OK! Uh, yeah, I was Dino and well, now, I'm Diana!"
(Diana is transgender. She was Assigned Male At Birth (AMAB), but she now identifies as female and has undergone all the necessary gender-affirming procedures and surgeries over the years. Her family has disowned her as a result of this.)
Interestingly enough, her family all vote Democrat. Make of that what you will.
Markham side-eyes her, "I...don't get it. I remember a Dino, yes, but not a Diana."
Diana explains her circumstances, "I uh...underwent some procedures and well uh--"
It clicks for Markham, "Oh. I see. A sex change? Uh, well, congratulations, I guess?"
Diana chuckles at that, "Haha. Yeah. Thanks. You know, Markham, you look...well, I was expecting you to be a lot older. Maybe it's the lights playing tricks on my eyes."
"Hm. Maybe. How are you keeping, Diana? How's your family?"
Diana scoffs, "My family? They turned their backs on me and cut me off from their lives because of who I am. I was so uncomfortable in my own skin, y'know? I had to start over from the ground up and it's hard out there."
"I'm sorry to hear that, Diana. Um...what are you doing now?"
"I work as a professional cleaner for 'Worbo's Professional Cleaning Services'. Not my 1st choice, lemme tell ya that much, heh. But I got rent to pay and uh...what else is new?"
She half-heartedly gestures to her van. Her black hair is short and stringy. She's thin and somewhat short, but her eyes are a clear shade of green.
Markham looks over and says, "Ah. I see. So, what are you doing here, Diana?"
"Apart from being worked like a fucking horse for pitiful pay? I'm here to grab some chow. Truth is, I could ACTUALLY eat a horse right now. I'm famished and Tia's Diner is 1 of my joints."
Markham tries to keep his distance from her, so as not to arouse any suspicion, but Diana sluggishly trudges forward and looks up at him with eyes that reflect tiredness and curiosity in equal measures.
It was the same look she had when she was a kid being watched over by Markham for but a few hours while her dad went off to do something or the other.
Diana gazes into his eyes and asks, "You know, I'm not so good with people anymore. I lost touch with a lot of my old friends since, uh--since what happened with my family. At least I got Jerry."
Markham is not sure who that is, "Oh, Jerry is your--"
Diana points to the stuffed lion, "My inanimate stuffed lion and professional listener. No BS from him. Ever."
Her eyes water up and she's still looking at Markham, "I--I'm glad that he's there for me, y'know?"
The Baali looks at her with some sympathy in his dead gray eyes. She must have been through a lot since they last met.
Diana mirthlessly smiles, "Anyway, how have you been? What have you been up to?"
"Not much, really. I'm just here in Flimont City on a work-related assignment. After that, I'm getting the hell out and going back to Seattle."
The mortal woman whistles, "Seattle, huh? Lucky you. You got a family back home?"
The eternal predator of the sundown hours shakes his head, "No. No, not really. It's just me, Diana."
Diana somberly responds, "I'm sorry. I heard about what happened to Daniella, by the way. Shame."
Markham gulps, "Hm. Yes. Please, don't--don't make me talk about it."
"OK, OK."
She can sense how cold and withdrawn the vampire is, so she waves goodbye and gingerly asks, "Can we stay in touch? Pretty please? A familiar face is--"
"Yes, Diana. Of course."
"You sure? You sound like you'd rather I was a stranger. I won't be offended if--"
"Diana. I have no issue with who you are. It's your life, your body, and ultimately your choice. As long as you're not hurting anyone else, then it's fine."
Diana is not sure if she heard that right, but she thinks she heard it right, "Wow! That's um...really nice of you, Markham. A kind word to a--a gal like me is rare around these parts. Especially when, y'know, I tell 'em that I'm..." she trails off and clears her throat.
She makes a motion with her hands and awkwardly adds, "That I'm uh--I'm--well, you know..."
Markham smiles at this and nods, "It's nothing to be ashamed of. You yourself said that you were uncomfortable in your own skin. I can't even begin to imagine what that must feel like but--"
Diana humbly mumbles, "I can't thank you enough, Markham. Seeing you has brightened up my shitty day by...this much." She makes a pinching gesture to show how much her day has improved.
Markham winces uncomfortably at how low her mood must be if he's "brightening it" this much.
Diana then hands her a card for Worbo's Professional Cleaning Services. Her number is hastily scrawled on the back. She mouths, "Call me!" and hurries inside the diner to satiate her hunger.
The Baali's expression shifts, "Hmm. You never know when you might need a professional cleaner, do you?"
He thinks about how she has come far since he last saw her. He cracks a tiny smile and pockets the card.
Interesting night, all things considered. A woman who might be a Touchstone for the troubled Baali and someone from his not-so-distant past, huh?
But the night is still young, as they are oft wont to say. There's still work to be done here. Mr. Reed decides to hit the nearest cybercaf and do some more digging into Rhonda's scam college- Clearwater Institute.
Ah, yeah. Cybercaf. Before everyone and their grandpa had the power of knowledge and information shoved into their pockets in the form of touchscreen phones, a cybercaf was a place where people could usually access the Internet on bulky PCs.
Markham's not too "up" on the Y2K tech, but he does what he can so as not to stand out and unwittingly cause a Masquerade breach.
He asks around and a few locals point him in the direction of the aforementioned establishment. He walks a few blocks, constantly looking over his shoulder to see if he's being followed.
He is, but the killer knows how to tail someone without getting made.
How long until the Baali is forced into a confrontation with these killers? Either way, he hopes that his friends (be they immortal or mortal) don't get caught up in the crossfire.
Mr. Strickland already tried once (and failed). With Gordon back in town, the 2 will indubitably make plans to have another go at that which cannot be so easily killed.
Recall, for that which is already dead cannot be so easily killed. And Mr. Strickland's people, trained as they are, do not have the right tools for the job.
How will the Demon be able to protect those he cares for from this looming and lurking danger? This is the question which nags him in the back of his mind, but it's not the only one.
There's the whole Luciano and Paul thing. He's not too keen on meeting either of them or asking them the questions he knows he has to ask so his investigation can...progress somewhere.
Another issue is him essentially staying in Diego's and Marisol's Haven. Those 2 Gangrel have been welcoming to him thus far, but he knows that arrangement can't go on forever.
Mr. Reed has the cash for a hotel room, but Diego, being the helpful buster that he is, insists on him staying at their place. Regardless, Markham doesn't want to impose on his hosts any longer than is absolutely necessary.
In good time, Markham's at the cybercaf. It's musty in here. The floors are a shade of chocolate brown and grimy in some spots. The walls are peeling off in some areas, and the place is full of warm and sweaty bodies. Add to that all the heating PCs and it's quite arid in here.
There's some kind of a LAN party going on in here, it seems. Loud cheering and whistling pierces the air. Skinny, shirtless guys are whooping loudly and sipping on Mountain Dews.
There are a few chicks in the corners, but they look so bored out of their minds. Can't blame 'em, honestly.
There are pizza boxes and sticky wrappers carelessly strewn about. It's a good thing that nocturnal predators of the dark night no longer have functioning respiratory systems.
The stench alone would make any self-respecting breath-drawer flee the scene in a matter of moments!
Markham opts for a corner booth for maximum privacy. He starts looking into Clearwater Institute, specifically the financial side of things. It isn't long before he comes upon a series of articles on the threadbare website for the Flimont Times.
The vampire's typing speed is abysmally slow, but he gets the gist of the articles. This is how he comes to know that the whole thing was a fucking pyramid scheme from start to finish.
The articles in question were all written by none other than the late Nicky Schroeder a few years back. By then, it was too late for anything to be done about the CWI.
Nicky, may the poor guy rest in peace, had quite an ol' timey muckraker quality to his writings. Either way, he did his due diligence and was able to uncover some really shady goings-on around the college.
And while there is some clear hyperbole thrown into the mix, it does shed some light on this whole sordid situation. There are a few names that Markham recognizes from the article.
Namely, Luciano Donovan Senior- LDJ's dad. Clearwater Institute had this weird and unusual thing where every student, faculty member, and employee was made a shareholder. In the article, Nicky mentions how unusual this move is for an institute dedicated to higher learning.
In essence, the college that Rhonda attended was a scam from start to finish. Money kept being sucked up to the top echelons who have all either ran away to countries with no extradition treaties with the USA or are lawyered up and ready to sic those hungry lawyers on anyone trying to poke the bear, as it were.
The article does mention the disappearance of a few staff members (how very convenient). A few deaths were quickly written off as accidents by the FCPD (!) and the story was essentially forgotten as the new century was ushered in.
It does mention a few other employees, though. But, when reached out for comment, they either clammed up or claimed they knew nothing of the massive ponzi scheme.
The article that Markham's reading ends on a rather ominous note, as if more were planned to be revealed: "It would seem, dear readers, that all roads lead back to 1 man- Luciano Donovan Senior. Stay tuned for more about that and be sure subscribe to our emailing list so you don't miss out!"
All roads lead back to LDJ's daddy, huh? Well, if that's the case, then taking down LDJ is, at best, a distraction. Someone really needs to look into LD Senior.
Markham is certainly getting those feelings right now, but his hands are tied. His orders are LDJ and P-Money.
The real problem is clearly LDJ's father, whose name has popped up in connection to all sorts of unpleasant things- from right-wing death squads in Latin America, connections to Jeffrey Epstein, and a possible role in the funding of some pretty nasty domestic terror orgs right here in the land of the free.
There's a lot of smoke there, that's f'sure!
Regardless, Markham Reed is determined to focus his investigative energies on Luciano Junior. He'll just need to hope that someone at the SEC or the IRS (or wherever) has the stones to look more into Luciano Senior.
Good luck with that. Luciano Sr. himself sat on the advisory board for the SEC a few years ago. He's got shadowy connections to all the ominous alphabet national security agencies in the country, and he is obscenely wealthy.
Not to mention, he has tons of kids (mainly daughters) on literally every continent. The guy's a fucking behemoth who'd leverage all his power and connections to crush the Baali into bits and pieces.
Mr. Reed takes a moment to pause and reflect on his current situation.
He has been around the block a few times. He's seen a lot of scumbags in his own time, and he knows that the Donovan patriarch is certainly a force to be reckoned with.
Either way, he's here to look into LDJ's (alleged) misdeeds and that's exactly what he's going to do.
For now.
Bigger fish need bigger pans and more heat if they're ever gon' get fried!
Ah, well...let's check in on Sheriff Velma DuPont...
The Ventrue Sheriff finds herself in a rather seedy part of the city. It's empty save for a few shipping containers dotted about here and there. There's not a lot of light here, and the place stinks of garbage and piss.
Sheriff Velma's eyesight is as sharp as a hawk's, though. She adjusts her up-do and confidently walks forward, gracefully gliding over the uneven ground.
The Ventrue Sheriff hears some loud arguing coming from a nearby shipping container. A gruff British accent is most prominent amongst the sea of generic Midwestern American accents.
Sheriff Velma stops for a second and listens in. There's a bit of a heated discussion going on inside the shipping container. She can't make out what these Brujah are talking about, but it sounds...spirited and intense.
Yeah, definitely Brujah having a chat amongst themselves.
The Blue Blood amusingly remarks, "I'm surprised they haven't started trading blows yet."
She circles around and approaches the container's entrance with quiet footsteps. She stands there, at the front, like a Cheshire cat, and observes 3 vampires having a heated discussion.
Clive is in the middle and 2 of his fellow Punks flank his sides. Clive's hair is a bit messy, and his hands are balled into fists. His nostrils flare and his teeth grind together.
He sharply tells the goth-looking dude to his left, "I'm telling you; you're reading it wrong! You fucking muppet! It's not a metaphor for whatever the bleedin' hell you're taking it as."
The goth vamp rolls his eyes and sighs, "Oh, come on. It's pretty clear what you're getting at, Clive."
The chick on Clive's right is a demure, academic-looking dame. She wears glasses, and she has her long black hair tied up in a tight bun.
She speaks with a soft, gentle voice, "You know, Clive, I think we can take a moment to step back and reflect on the broader themes of--" she stops and gasps when she sees the Ventrue Sheriff.
Sheriff Velma shakes her head and folds her arms, "Arguing about literature. Hm, I suppose that's to be expected from Philosophers who can't quite decide if they're more Philosopher or more Punk on these nights. Heh."
Clive glares at her and his expression sours. He puts down his book and snarls, "What are you doing here? Here to shake me down for a million dollars, love? I don't fucking 'ave that kind of dosh lying around. Now, bugger off."
Academic chick lowers her head and avoids eye contact with the Sheriff. Goth dude tries to appear all tough and intimidating but is shut down when the Sheriff icily glowers at him.
Clive scoffs, "Well, what do you want, love? Can't you see that we're busy?"
Sheriff Velma leans against the shipping container, "You have been busy, haven't you? Lemme jog your memory. You and your fellow Rabble hit something, something very important, last night."
Clive throws his muscular arms up in the air, "I don't know what you're talking about, love. We hit a lot of things. We're Brujah. Maybe whoever or whatever it is we hit had it coming."
Sheriff Velma rolls her eyes, "Don't make this any harder on yourself, Clive. I only found out where you were tonight because your Gangrel buddy Pedro told me where to look. The Feral gave me a 100 different spots on where you MIGHT be."
She sounds tired and a tad bit irritated.
Clive smirks, "Not me problem, love. We want in to the big posh Ivory Tower, but I AM NOT giving that fucking twat you call your Prince a million dollars! Even if I had that kind of dosh, I wouldn't waste it on him."
Sheriff Velma growls and reminds the Punk, "He's not just MY Prince. He's OUR Prince. He's been the Prince of this whole city for the past 100 years."
She takes a few menacing steps forward and stares down these 3 Rebels, "Show some fucking respect. You think that you're hot shit, but a bum would sooner scrape what's left of you off their feet. Don't think that I won't make sure that happens."
The goth dude raises his hands up in mock-surrender and snarks, "Oh, madam Sheriff officer. I've been a bad, bad boy. You gonna bend me over and spank me?"
The academic chick giggles at this.
Clive snarls at her, "You don't scare us. We know what you really are. You destroy Thin-Bloods for fucking sport. What you and Antonio are running is nothing short of an extortion racket."
Sheriff Velma is getting a bit ticked off and is just about to grab the Punk by the shirt collar, but Clive quickly rises up from the barrel he's seated on.
He smiles, "What do you want, eh? Let's go for a walk and we can talk about it...like the civilized parasites and leeches that we are, yeah?"
Sheriff Velma blandly says, "Lead the way. Tell nerd and emo to stay put." She shoots a glance at the 2 other Brujah.
Clive smiles, "Oh, you can count on it, love. They'll stay put. Come on." He walks over to the edge of the shipping container and beckons, "Ladies first."
Sheriff Velma faintly scoffs and starts walking, making sure to not let this massive British dude out of her sight. A few other Brujah in this area emerge from the shadows or watch her with a certain fiery intensity in their dead eyes.
She remains unfazed and composed while walking slowly. Clive matches her pace and begins, "So, what's the story, love? Do you even have any proof of whatever it is you think we did?"
"Don't call me love. I'm your Sheriff. Which means I'm owed a certain degree of respect around these parts. I'm not some 'crumpet' or some 'floozy'. I'm the Sheriff of Flimont City. You will refer to me as Sheriff Velma."
Clive sighs and rolls his eyes, "Cor blimey, you really are a Ventrue, eh? Ach, fair enough, Sheriff Velma. Now, what is it that's got your knickers in a twist?"
Sheriff Velma groans, "Oh, just that you and your buddies smashed up a van and destroyed a trailer in the middle of the goddamn street. Ring any bells in that empty head of yours?"
Clive's expression shifts into one of curiosity, "Van? Trailer?"
"Mm-hmm. It was carrying something really important- that's all I'm gonna say. You left quite a mess back there. It's a Masquerade breach, if ever there was one. Your little ex-Anarch posse isn't doing the best job of keeping a low profile in this city."
Clive exclaims, "Ah, shite! That one, eh? We got into a wee scuffle, shit happened. Some other fucking muppets smashed up your bleedin' vans and scattered!"
Sheriff Velma grimly reminds him, "Need I remind you of the penalties for breaching the Masquerade, ESPECIALLY on nights such as these? What the hell even went on, huh? It's like it was ripped right out of some horror flick."
Clive shrugs, "You know that sometimes...our Violence gets the better of us. I forgot what it was we were arguing about, but I know blows were traded."
Sheriff Velma rubs her temples, "Alright, let's back up. You guys were arguing about whatever. And then the fight broke out. And then you and a few others went full wrecking ball on the passing vehicles, right?"
Clive rubs the base of his neck, "Something like that, yeah. It's all a wee bit...hazy."
"Hmph. Tch. I can't let something like this go unpunished, you know."
"Fuck off! You act like you've been a good and clean little girl who has never made a mess in her Unlife. So proper and posh and all, eh?"
Sheriff Velma sharply looks at him and growls, "Don't think that I haven't dealt with your kind before. I'm not a fucking amateur at this."
Clive bitterly retorts, "I know. I've seen your handiwork. 1999. What the 'ell you did to those poor Thin-Bloods haunts me bloody mind. Corpses strung up, bodies strewn all over the gaff..."
He looks at her with disgust and shakes his head, "Ach, it's still a nightmare. You're proper mental."
Sheriff Velma shrugs it off, "No Thin-Bloods in this Domain. Examples had to be made, and precedents had to be set. I'd do it all over again if I had to." Her voice is filled with loathing and determination in equal measures.
Clive scoffs, "Well, maybe I should take a page from your book and do the same. You'd like that, eh?"
"I do what I have to do to protect and uphold the Traditions of the Camarilla; it's been my job for the past 50 years and WILL continue to be my job."
"What happens if you, eh, find a better job or get thrown out on your arse?"
Ooooh, spicy!
The Ventrue scoffs, "I'm not going to discuss that with you. As far as I'm concerned, my job as Sheriff is secure. Nobody knows this city the way I do."
Clive sniffs and claps back, "I doubt that, love. You didn't know we were operating in this wee city for a while, now. Anyway, I'm done with the Anarchs. Fuck them, fucking muppets. I want in with the Camarilla, but I'm not paying Prince Antonio 1 million dollars."
Sheriff Velma plainly declares, "That's not up to me. If Prince Antonio has set the entrance fee to a million dollars, then so be it." She sounds so robotic and unfeeling.
"Oh, c'mon, Sheriff! We can come to some sort of...alternative arrangement, right?"
"We have our rules here, Clive. And they're not gonna change because you and your friends are having a 'mood' or are unable to come up with the money."
Clive grins at her, "I mean we, you and I, could come up with some kind of...arrangement?"
Sheriff Velma's face scrunches up in disgust, "Ugh. If I could throw up, now's the time I'd be doing it. You're not my type, anyway. You're too British and you're a Brujah. Plus, you're an asshole."
Clive laughs, "I'm not talking about shagging, you plonker! I'm talking about a--"
He lowers his voice to a whisper, "--Blood Bond. I could show you things, teach you things."
Sheriff Velma rejects him firmly, "You're not my type, Clive. That's what I said, and I meant it. Besides, if I were EVER to enter into a Blood Bond, I'd very much like to be the one holding the reins, the one in charge, not on my knees begging someone else for the privilege of drinking their Blood."
Clive's grin widens, "Ah, a Ventrue's Ventrue, eh? Ah, fair enough. But it was worth a try, innit?"
Sheriff Velma sighs and admits, "Yeah, you've got balls- proposing a Blood Bond to a Sheriff of all people. Now, back on topic, please. What exactly happened? Or better yet, how did it end? Any witnesses seeing anything they shouldn't have seen?"
Clive sighs and slows down his walking speed, "Well, not that I recall, no. Anyway, what the 'ell was so special about those fucking vans, eh? Do you have any idea?"
"It's on a need-to-know basis and right now YOU don't need to know. I'm not telling you anything. I'm asking you what YOU know about your street-level boxing match last night."
"We're just gonna play the 20 questions game, then, eh?"
"40 if I have to. Prince Antonio wants answers and he's getting them before sunrise."
Clive's eyebrows shoot up, "Your dedication's quite something. Here's what I can recall..."
Clive and some of his fellow Agitators got into an argument (pertaining to a piece of famous literature and its thematic elements or some such). It got...slightly out of hand in the middle of the street.
Blows were traded, tempers flared up, and then a few Brujah decided to do what they do best- break shit up and make a huge-ass mess.
"It was just a bit of banter, that's all!"
Disciplines were (mis)used and displays of preternatural strength were unleashed. From there, it gets a bit hazy for the guy, and he has trouble remembering a few things.
He can't recall how exactly it all ended. He only knows that it's all a bit hazy for him and his fellow Punks who were involved in that wee scuffle. However, he does recall a person, bloodied, limping away from the wreckage.
"That has to count for something, right?"
Sheriff Velma is not too impressed, "Great. Just great. A stray and a potential witness. Tell me ANYTHING about this runaway."
Clive shrugs and a look of total cluelessness washes over his face, "Not a bloody thing. Well, except that they were covered in blood and cuts and shite like that."
The Sheriff looks at the Punk like he's stupid.
Clive tries to appear as unflappable as possible, "We didn't see much. We were busy settling our arguments with our fists and fangs and claws and--well, it's not exactly something I'm proud of."
He thoughtfully continues, "We're The Learned Clan, after all. Not the daft muppet Clan fighting each other over whatever the 'ell we think is important on these nights. Right, Sheriff?"
Sheriff Velma is not amused, "Do you have any idea how hard it is to find someone like that in a city of over a million people?! I am under an unbelievable amount of pressure here and you've just added to that mess. What the hell were you thinking?"
Clive sighs and pensively lowers his head, "Look, I'm sorry, Sheriff. I didn't know that the vans were carrying important cargo or shite. They just looked like regular vans to me. And I am sorry, but we--we weren't thinking. That's the problem with us Brujah on these nights."
Sheriff Velma dismissively waves, "Sort out internal Brujah messes on your own time. We'll keep in touch. Prince Antonio is not too pleased with you people. He wanted to raise the asking price to 2 million, but I managed to talk him down from it."
Clive looks at her incredulously, "Oh, now you're trying to be a hero, eh? Riddle me this, why the bloody 'ell was that van carrying a person in the back? Since when were people cargo?"
"You don't know the half of it, Clive. And you're not entitled to know anything about it. As far as I'm concerned, what you and your little posse did last night was an act that could very well warrant Final Death for all involved."
She stops walking and stares daggers at him, "The damage was severe, and the consequences are dire. You and your fellow Rabble are walking on VERY thin ice right now. If you so much as blink the wrong way, I'll see to it that every single one of you are Blood-Hunted to the fucking ground."
Clive is silent for a moment, then he bitterly remarks, "That's fair. Now, can I go?"
Sheriff Velma nods, "Yeah. Go back to discussing your book with that nerd and that emo. Pfft."
Clive walks off and looks over his shoulder, "I hope it doesn't come down to a Blood Hunt, but we'd win over you Ventrue any night and you know it. I know how the Ventrue here operate. We've seen the worst you can do and we still survived. We're too bloody tough to crumble to dust, Sheriff."
Sheriff Velma mirthlessly smiles at him, "That's what I'm counting on. But none of us want that. It's been a good 100 years for the Ventrue in this city. There's no need for that to change, is there?"
"Well, that's on you, love. And maybe on us. We'll see each other around, eh?"
Sheriff Velma watches him until he disappears into the darkness. She looks around and can feel the eyes of dozens of Brujah boring into her. She walks away from this decaying place and starts heading back to the Prince's Haven.
As she drives, she wonders if Clive is right. Do the Blue Bloods in this Domain need to take a hard look at themselves and start putting their shit together?
Nah. She reassures herself that they've got a good thing going on here.
"Only a fool would try to upset the apple cart, and there are no fools in the Prince's Court."
Oh, the apple cart was gonna be upset, alright. But those who would soon do it are gonna be anything but fools!
Many hours later...
Markham is back at Diego's Haven, resting his head on the couch. Diego is lounging next to him, talking about work and whatnot.
Markham is just sitting there, staring at the wall. It isn't long before Marisol returns from her work. She looks drained and exhausted.
Diego springs up and greets her with a light peck on the lips and asks how her night was.
Marisol groans and pops her neck, "Not so great, D. But I'm here now and I'm going to take a shower. I need it."
Diego smiles and offers, "Just tell me when you need that foot massage, alright?"
Marisol looks over her boyfriend's shoulder and spots Markham. She looks back at Diego and wiggles her eyebrows.
Diego turns to the Baali and politely asks, "Hey, ese? You uh...don't mind giving me and the queen some space?"
Markham is quick to get up from his seat, "No problem, Diego. It's your Haven. Um...Marisol's Haven, too. I'll be in the basement. Hm. Thanks. Marisol. Diego." He nods at them.
The Baali meanders downstairs to the basement. He closes the door behind him and leans against it. He looks around and plants his backside on the hard mattress.
He lets out a sigh of relief and thinks on all that has happened tonight. Meeting Rhonda, his new Touchstone, was the first eventful thing, but it's been a busy night overall.
His thoughts keep drifting off to Diana. Someone from his past who recognizes him could spell some trouble for the Baali. He knows that they'll eventually meet again. Will she get suspicious of Markham not aging after all those years?
Diana, for her part, was just too tired to care or prod any further. Still, the question does linger on Markham's mind.
Will he have to be extra careful around her? Or will a more drastic touch be required?
The 2nd option is grim, and Markham Reed is certainly no killer. Even after killing that repulsive assassin at the hotel room, Markham felt quite uneasy with how easy it was for him to drain that bastard dry.
His Humanity took a hit after that, but he feels somewhat better after meeting Rhonda tonight. Having her as a Touchstone will help him keep his focus, and keep the Beast tamed.
But, until then, the Baali is gonna focus on finishing up his investigation in this rotten city, then return back home to the greener pastures of Seattle.
Easier said than done, of course!
Mr. Reed did manage to shake off whoever was trailing him. He just moved into a large crowd emerging from a movie theater and subtly activated his Obfuscate Discipline, thus disappearing into the camouflage of the warm-bodied masses.
(Maybe they were a few vamps in there? Who knows? Even vamps like watching movies and dark theaters are also great places for popcorn-alternatives, heh).
It isn't long before that great ball of fiery fire roars into view. Flimont City is now bathed in an intense orange glow. Day is now in full swing. The streets are mostly empty save for a few cars here and there.
The Kindred in this Midwestern blightscape succumb to the lulling and sluggish pull of the day-sleep. Their bodies "shutdown" for a whole day of rest and rejuvenation.
As the day rolls on, the traffic begins to build up. School buses (the functioning ones, anyway) ferry their little charges to their crumbling destinations.
The homeless begin their days of begging for spare change and searching for the nearest dumpster to find scraps of food, good but thrown away for whatever absurd reason.
Meanwhile, the dayshift workers are already on their way to the factory floors or the office buildings for another day of labor in exchange for scraps.
The day is a busy one, bright and sunny. What nobody knew was just how messy things were gonna get from here on out.
In fact, it was already beginning.
Chapter 13: Why so SAD?
"I'm afraid of Americans / God is an American / God is an American" -David Bowie, Im Afraid of Americans (1995)
Miles and miles away, in a building of glass and steel...
A man in his 40s is seated in his comfortable air-conditioned office. He's got a wiry build and is a bit on the short side. His dark hair is thinning, and he's clean-shaven.
He wears a dark suit with a blue tie. His black shoes are shined and polished to perfection. He has a faint scent of cologne about him.
His face is locked in a stern and serious expression. He's reading through a thick stack of documents (mostly redacted), making sure that everything is in order.
He checks his watch and mutters, "It's almost time."
His office is sparsely furnished. The carpet is gray, and the walls are painted a neutral cream white. There's a large desk made of oak. A few photos are placed on top of it. The windows are covered by thick curtains.
A ceiling fan is lazily spinning above the man's head. He picks up his phone and dials a number.
The other person on the end of the line answers, their voice professionally neutral and monotone.
"This is Special Agent Harold Cuomo speaking," the man says, "Yes, I have reports of potential blank body activity in Flimont City."
The person on the other end replies, "Understood, Special Agent Cuomo. We've just received the reports as well."
Special Agent Cuomo sits back in his chair and stifles a sigh, "How should we proceed?"
"The Special Affairs Division leaves that in your hands, Special Agent Cuomo. You'll have FBI assets at your disposal, but tread cautiously when utilizing them. We don't want or need a repeat of 1993."
Special Agent Cuomo faintly chuckles, "Understood. This could very well be a big break or a whole load of nothing. I'm looking at a file detailing our last op in Flimont City- 1995. It's not pretty and it's heavily redacted."
The person on the other end of the line is silent for a moment, then they say, "That, Special Agent Cuomo, is not your concern. We made...small errors in our handling of that situation. It's been cleaned up since then."
Special Agent Cuomo nods, "Understood. So, we're starting with a fresh slate, then?"
"I believe we are, yes. You will be provided with all that you and your people require- specialized equipment, transport, personnel, access, and weapons. However, we must stress that this is a delicate matter. We don't want another incident like 1995."
Special Agent Cuomo grimly states, "I understand. If there are blank bodies in Flimont City, then we'll smoke 'em out."
"Hm. Yes. Your...track record speaks for itself. You have approximately 3 confirmed blank body kills on your record. That's not bad, considering the circumstances and what you were up against in...Tulsa, yes?"
Special Agent Cuomo sniffs, "Yes. Tulsa, Oklahoma, 1998. It's not enough, though. I know that there are more of these slimy immortals out there. They're everywhere. And they're dangerous."
The person on the other end of the line agrees, "Indeed. Well, you've got the green light, Special Agent Cuomo. Although, your methods..."
They pause and some shuffling and mouse-clicking can be heard, "Ah. OK, yes. You've been utilizing...unorthodox methods to acquire information from suspected blank body sympathizers. Methods that are...not exactly approved by the Bureau."
The Special Agent scoffs lightly, "So what if I did? It's a new world and the rules of engagement have changed drastically as a result. If we want to fight the blank bodies, then we need to play by a different set of rules. There are no other options or alternatives when dealing with 'em. I speak from firsthand experience."
"Well, we appreciate that, Special Agent Cuomo. Still, pouring kerosene on an incapacitated blank body, who appeared as a teenager, and lighting them and their surroundings on fire...that's not exactly something certain folk would approve of."
Special Agent Cuomo coldly remarks, "Fuck them. We're at war with these monsters. Besides, that so-called 'teenager' was almost 200-years-old! That bloodsucking 'kid' had it coming."
"We'll keep that in mind, Special Agent Cuomo. Regardless, you have to be cautious with how we handle these matters. If the public or a wrong Senate Subcommittee found out, a black site in Thailand would be the least of our worries."
Special Agent Cuomo sighs, "Yeah, yeah. I know. But these blank bodies are parasites, plain and simple. They live off our blood and don't age. They stalk the nights looking for some unfortunate sap to feed on. And they're smart. They blend in well with society despite being old as hell."
"We fully understand, Special Agent Cuomo. That being said, you have full authorization to deal with and neutralize any and all blank body-related threats in Flimont City. Just do it quietly and don't leave too much of a paper trail."
Special Agent Cuomo grins, "Ah, music to my ears. We'll make sure that none of these monsters survive. We'll get 'em before they get us. They won't even know what hit 'em."
"Very well. Do you have any other concerns?"
"Yes. Am I...authorized to utilize enhanced interrogation techniques?"
"Harold, if it's good enough for the CIA, then it's good enough for the Special Affairs Division. All we want are results. Maybe a few graphs and bar charts to show to some members of Congress. Pictures, too. Where applicable, of course."
Special Agent Cuomo laughs, "You got it! Any other orders from your end?"
"You've been on the Division Director's radar since your last op in 1998. He's interested in how result-oriented and driven you are, and he wants to see you succeed."
Special Agent Cuomo smiles widely, "Oh, that's great!"
"He's also thinking of promoting you, should you succeed in this operation in Flimont City. You're 1 of the best agents we have, Harold. Don't screw it up."
Special Agent Cuomo nods, "I won't. I promise."
"Good luck, Special Agent Cuomo. Keep us in the loop at ALL times and exercise caution when dealing with the blank bodies. They're not to be underestimated."
"Roger that. Over and out."
Special Agent Cuomo hangs up and leans back in his chair. He closes his eyes and takes a deep breath. He lets it out shakily and spins around in his chair a few times. He stares out the window and watches the world below him.
From where he's looking, it's a beautiful day outside. The sun is shining, the birds are singing, and the sky is clear. He makes a call and a woman shows up a few minutes later.
She's in her 40s as well. She has dark brown hair, a round face, and a somewhat athletic build. She's wearing a dark suit with a blue tie. Her shoes are black and shiny. She has a faint scent of perfume about her.
That would be Agent Heather Heartley, Special Agent Harold Cuomo's second-in-command. She takes a seat opposite her superior and crosses her legs.
"What's up, boss?" she asks.
Special Agent Cuomo turns to face her, "We've got the green light, Heather. We're heading to Flimont City. If there's vampires there, then we're fucking killing them. All."
Agent Heartley's face lights up, "That's great news! I've been itching to get back into the field ever since our last op in Tulsa. So, what's the plan?"
"Here's how it's gonna go. We have full access to the Bureau's resources. Fresh faces and bushy tails from Quantico, weapons, vehicles, intel, and all that good shit. We'll be using the Bureau's connections to get us whatever we need."
Agent Heartley nods, "Got it. So, we're basically running an off-the-books operation here?"
"Mm-hmm. We'll be working with a mix of standard FBI agents who don't know squat about the blank bodies and SAD specialists who do. So, we'll have to figure out a way to keep the lower ranks in the dark while keeping the rest in the loop."
Agent Heartley ponders this for a moment, "Well, we could always use the old 'need-to-know' excuse."
Special Agent Cuomo dismissively waves his hand, "That won't work. Last century's tricks just won't cut it anymore. We'll need something...contemporary and plausible, too."
Agent Heather strokes her chin and thinks for a minute, "What about...using a different kind of excuse? Something that won't raise too many eyebrows while giving us the freedom to do what we need to do?"
Special Agent Cuomo looks at her curiously, "Go on."
"We could say that we're conducting an op against a plausible bioterrorist threat in the area. Blank bodies technically are, well sort of, biologically different and whatnot. That should give us deniability in case things go south, right?"
Special Agent Harold smiles, "That's a great idea, Heather! We'll use that as our cover story. The bioterrorist threat. The lower ranks will have to keep their mouths shut and do as they're told, but our inner circle will know what's REALLY going on."
Agent Heather nods, "Right. We'll have to tread cautiously, though. The blank bodies are smart and they're good at blending in with the rest of society. We'll also have to keep a close eye out for their daylight hangers-on."
"Yeah. Sneaky sons of bitches. Tch. This new century means it's a whole new world out there, Heather. 1998's rules don't cut it anymore..." Special Agent Cuomo gets up from his chair and walks over to the window.
He puts his hands behind his back and lifts his chin, "We'll have to do whatever it takes to keep America safe from these...things. They stopped being people a long time ago."
Agent Heartley stands up and joins her superior at the window, "I know, Harold. We'll get them. We'll make sure that every last one of them is dead."
Special Agent Harold snickers, "Or in a black site. The intel that these fuckers are sitting on could save a lot of lives."
Agent Heather's gaze follows a bird flying by, "True. The blank bodies have powerful friends, though. They can't all be hobos and junkies stalking alleyways and biting into hookers infested with god knows how many STIs. Ech."
She shudders, her face contorting into a tight grimace.
Special Agent Harold shakes his head, "No, they can't. It would be easier if they were all losers, though. But they're not. They're smart and they're everywhere. All around us. And they're extremely dangerous."
"I know. So, what's our next move, sir?"
Special Agent Harold takes a deep breath, "We'll need to assemble a team of specialists. The right kinds of people. I'll look into putting together people for our lower ranks, you focus on our in-house SAD operatives."
Agent Heather nods, "Understood. We'll need a good number of people for this op. How many do you think we'll need?"
"Enough to keep the purse strings happy, but not enough to attract too much attention from the blank bodies. They're everywhere- even we're a bit compromised. Hmph."
Agent Heather chuckles, "I'll get right on it, sir."
Special Agent Harold pats her back, "You've done well by me...and the SAD, Heather. Once we're done cleaning Sunshine City of its immortal problem, we'll have a long and serious talk about promoting you to Special Agent."
Agent Heather bows her head a bit and cracks a small smile, "Thank you, sir. I won't let you down. Promise."
"I know you won't. Now, get to work. We've got a lot to do before we can head out to Flimont City. I want a good and competent team put together. Money's no object, but discretion is key."
Agent Heather firmly nods, "Yes, sir! I'll get right on it!"
Special Agent Harold smiles, "That's what I like to hear. I look forward to some...fires being started." He's got that psychotic look in his eyes again.
The very same psychotic look he had when destroying those vampires in Tulsa back in 1998. He just had to go for the option that caused maximum damage and destruction.
That was (and still is) his modus operandi back then.
And in the opening years of the 21st century, it's going to be a hell of a lot more destructive in Flimont City!
Special Agent Harold Cuomo is an establishment thug through and through. His trigger-happy violence and eagerness to use extreme force against the Kindred (and those around them) have earned him quite the reputation amongst the ranks of the SAD.
He's the kind of buster who will burn down an entire apartment building in the 'hood if it means getting rid of a single vampire. He's ruthless, he's brutal, and he's determined to get the job done no matter what.
As Agent Heather leaves, a call comes in for the man himself. He picks it up and it's the same person from earlier.
"Yes?" he answers.
The person on the other end of the line replies, "We have an asset in Flimont City. We've sent his file over. You are to liaise with him as soon as possible. He has extensive knowledge of the area."
Special Agent Cuomo raises an eyebrow, "If it's another 600-pound drug dealer called 'Skinny Tim', I'm not interested. I have my limits."
"No, no. This one's different. He's one of us, actually. He's intelligence and he's protected from on high, so don't touch him."
Special Agent Harold's face scrunches in confusion, "What's that supposed to mean? Who--who is this guy? What's so special about him?"
A dry response comes through, "It's all in his file, Harold. You might see things that you don't approve of, but you are NOT, under any circumstances, to interfere with his operations. Understood?"
Special Agent Harold stifles a groan, "Yeah, yeah. Yes. U--Understood."
"Good. We'll keep you posted if anything else comes up. And we expect timely status updates from you."
"Yeah, sure thing," Special Agent Cuomo hangs up and immediately checks his emails for this mysterious asset's file.
He finds it and opens it up. The first thing he sees is the man's name: Mr. Strickland. That's it. It's not mentioned whether it's his first, last, or middle name.
Special Agent Harold perches an eyebrow skeptically and scrolls further down. Yeah, it's the very same Mr. Strickland, the crazy asshole running the organization of contract killers in Flimont City.
He's an asset to the vast military-intelligence apparatus of the almighty dollar empire. And judging by how long his file is (and how HEAVILY redacted it is), he's a VERY valuable asset.
Special Agent Harold groans and rubs his temples, "Fuck me sideways...who--who the hell is this guy?"
He's going to have to deal with this lunatic. Almost 90% of Mr. Strickland's file is redacted. There's a hell lotta black redaction pens being mistaken for highlighters up in Washington DC or Langley or Quantico or wherever.
Special Agent Cuomo's expression sours as he reads through the unredacted portions of the man's file. He's a contract killer, yes, but he's also a highly skilled and experienced operative.
And he's got the connections to back it up. Before entering the "bidness" of murder-for-hire, Mr. Strickland was with the Military Assistance Command, Vietnam- Studies and Observations Group (or MACV-SOG).
He and his fellow imperialist goons did what could only be described as war crimes in Vietnam. They were the American empire's most ferocious attack dogs, and they did a whole lotta dirty and unpleasant work.
Mr. Strickland was said to be 1 of their best and most loyal operators. Even then, his past "escapades" are heavily redacted in the interest of "national security" or some such bullshit.
After 'Nam, Mr. Strickland moved to Flimont City and has essentially been living off a very generous retirement fund. Nothing much about his past and no mention of any family, immediate or extended.
Son of a bitch has shrouds that are shrouded in secrecy!
Special Agent Harold, for his part, wonders why the file is so redacted, "It's blacker than a fucking oil spill. Who the hell is this guy that we've got working...for us? With us? Jesus."
He makes a few calls and is immediately shut down when Mr. Strickland's name is brought up. People clam up, hang up, or sternly chide Special Agent Harold and tell him not to go digging where he shouldn't be.
So, he does what any establishment thug would do in his position: he follows orders. But the more "curious" part of him (as far as he has one) is wondering WHY this particular "asset" is so highly protected.
Either way, Special Agent Cuomo puts that aside and gets to work on assembling a team of competent and trained SAD agents to accompany him to Flimont City. These assholes are coming, and they know what they're doing.
The operation begins in earnest!
Back to Flimont City...
It's now noontime. Luciano Donovan Junior has already woken up, said his daily morning affirmations, and is eating a dry bowl of cereal while watching the news.
He's not so interested in the news, instead, he's ogling the rather well-endowed news anchorwoman.
Luciano Jr. whistles at the TV and remarks, "You see the knockers on that broad? Marone! I--I think I could make my 2nd home in there, Paul!"
Paul is busy coming down from his latest cocaine high and merely grunts in response.
Luciano Jr. sighs and shakes his head, "Man! I should tell Angie to go and get a rack like that! I'll pay for her fucking surgery! I'll even ask Sophie to go and get herself some implants!"
Paul mumbles something incoherently, rubs his nose till it's red, and sniff-grunts like a horse that got some hair caught in its throat.
Luciano Jr. rolls his eyes, "Whatever, man. You're just jealous that you don't have a broad to fuck! I got 2 hopping on and sucking my dick, you don't even have 1, hahahahahahaha!"
Paul groans and turns his head aside, "Don't rub it in, Luciano. Besides, if either of them found out, you'd be down in the 0 dumps with me, heh."
LDJ scoffs and rolls his eyes, "Yeah, yeah. Not happening. Ever. I'm good at keeping Sophie and Angie apart from each other. And they're both REALLY into me, so..."
Paul snorts, "Yeah, sure. Whatever you say, Luciano. I'm just saying, these things, they tend to not last forever."
LDJ smirks, "You're just jealous because I got some good ass to fuck whenever I want! And lips to go around my big cock. All you've got is nose candy and your right hand."
Paul chuckles, "Heh. I--I guess you're right. Still, you gotta be careful. If either of them finds out, it's gonna be ugly."
LDJ shrugs, "They won't. If it gets ugly, I'll call up my good friend Jerry Springer, and we can get it sorted out on TV."
Paul shakes his head and laughs, "I'd be down to watch that! Front-row seat and everything!"
"Mm-hmm, I'm sure you would. So, what's the plan for today?"
Paul checks his watch and sniffs, "You said Gordon was coming to see you, right? Maybe we should...uh...prepare for that."
LDJ shrugs carelessly and shoves some more milk-less cereal into his mouth, "Yeah, he's coming here to talk about our Markham Reed situation. Fuckin' SEC thinking they can just come in and try to steal my money. Fuck 'em! Fuckin' assholes."
Paul nods, "Uh-huh. So, what are we gonna do about it?"
LDJ waves dismissively, "We'll figure it out. Gordon's got plans. Big plans. BIG-ASS PLANS!"
P-Money grimaces uncomfortably, "Is it gonna be those some contract killers again?"
LDJ claps back, "So what if it is, huh? We got a good deal going on here, Paul! Are we really gonna let 1 fucking nobody screw it up?!"
Paul hesitates and scratches his head, "I--I don't know, Luciano. I mean, if the SEC gets involved any further, we could be in deeper shit. Like, REALLY deeper shit!" he has that really manic look in his eyes.
It's kinda scary.
LDJ sneers, "Yeah, but they don't have any proof..."
He turns to his best friend and smirks in a smug manner, "...they don't know about our golden goose, laying those fat golden eggs for us."
Paul clicks his tongue, "Hmph. I just, dunno, man. Mauve is a good source of income, yeah, sure. But she's also a huge liability. She's practically retarded and..."
LDJ hisses and gets closer to Paul, "Aw, shut up, Paul! I don't care about any of that! Yeah, I know she was, and will always be, a fucking retarded homeless bum. But she's OUR retarded homeless bum, and she makes us a whole lotta fuckin' money with her crazy numbers thing!"
Paul sighs, "I know, I know. I just think that maybe we should..."
Luciano cuts him off, face red with anger, "What? Maybe we should what, Paul!? Hmm?! Maybe we should stop using her?! Is that what you were gonna say?!"
Paul flinches and backs away from his buddy, "N--No, Luciano. I'm just saying that we should keep our idiot savant on a tight leash, y'know? Make sure that she doesn't go and--and start running her crazy mouth off to the wrong kinds of people."
LDJ huffs, "Yeah, yeah. I know. We'll keep her in line. I'll make sure of it. Besides, I pay her fucking rent up at that fancy-ass place. That alone should make her grateful enough to shut up and do whatever the fuck I tell her to do."
Paul nods, "Good. Good. OK. Just making sure. So, what's the plan?"
LDJ puffs his chest out and proudly declares, "We keep making ourselves rich. And soon enough, every-fucking-body is gonna line up to kiss my ring. Even my fucking dad's gonna be on his knees."
Paul raises an eyebrow, "You sure about that, Luciano? Your old man doesn't bow for anybody."
LDJ scoffs, "Pfft! Oh, marone, when he sees how much money I'm drowning in, he'll be begging to learn the recipe to that secret sauce. He'll be kissing my ass and asking ME for a job!"
Paul chuckles, "That would be something, alright."
Luciano sets his bowl aside and brings up something from his past, "Y'know, Paul, the only time my dad ever...smiled at me?"
"Uh...?"
Luciano Jr. sucks some air through his teeth and shakes his head, "When I was 12 and I made my first ever trade at the Flimont City Stock Exchange. That...that was the only time the old man ever smiled at me and he meant it."
Paul nods, "Oh, yeah. I remember that. It was a big deal, back then, wasn't it? You made like, 3 grand or something like that?"
Luciano fondly recalls, "$3461.16. It was late in the evening, and I had just come back from school." Damn! He even remembers the cents!
LDJ goes on, "Traffic was light and dad said we should take our Rolls-Royce. Damn, I fucking loved the high I got from making that trade and watching those numbers go up! The feeling of having all that money, being able to do whatever the fuck you wanted. It was great."
Paul smiles, "Yeah, it was. I remember how happy you were. Practically ecstatic and uh...over the moon. You even got yourself a new pair of sneakers, right?"
LDJ grins, "Yeah, I did. Man, that was the best goddamn day of my life! Even better than the time I lost my virginity or kissed a girl. That trade I made a--and seeing my dad smile at me...it was THE best feeling in the world."
Paul pats his buddy's shoulder, "You're gonna get there again, Luciano. Soon enough, we'll both be swimming in so much money that we'll both forget about all the bullshit from our pasts."
"Heh. Yeah. Remember that pact we made?"
Paul smiles from ear to ear, "How could I forget? Never get married, never get cooties, and never share any of our cash with another girl. Oh, yeah, abso-fucking-lutely. We promised each other that we'd make it big and be the kings of Flimont City. No matter what."
LDJ proudly chuckles, "And now we're getting there. Soon enough, they'll be kissing my ring and bowing before me. And they'll all be asking for my secret sauce. It'll be a line of losers all the goddamn way from here to Peppy's!"
Luciano does a waving gesture in front of himself, "But I'll tell 'em ALL to fuck off, cuz LDJ doesn't share his cream with nobody!"
Paul laughs along with his buddy. They've been friends since they was in diapers, and they've been through thick and thin together.
The 2 of them have shared many experiences together, but there is a certain...superficial quality to their "friendship". If anything, it's more like a business partnership than anything else.
Paul knows this, and he's fine with it, for his part. He's never been one to get too attached to people. Luciano, on the other hand, is a bit different.
LDJ clearly lives in the long and overarching shadow of his ruthless father. Everything Junior is doing (or intends to do) is for the sole purpose of impressing the old man. He can tell himself otherwise, but that's the truth.
Luciano Donovan Sr. has always been a tough act to follow. He's been a successful (and brutal) stockbroker for decades and he's built up quite the (nastily unpleasant) reputation in Flimont City.
So far, like daddy like son. But Junior wants to be more than just a carbon copy of his father. He wants to be the go above and beyond and be the BEST. And he's willing to do whatever it takes to achieve that insanely deluded goal.
Even if it means resorting to illegal and immoral means. However, in LDJ's case, the means are more...supernatural in nature. Preternatural, perhaps. Of course, there's a fair degree of illegality involved.
Not to mention, coercion.
Anyhoo...
Gordon Pym arrives a few minutes later than when he said he would. He's carrying a briefcase with him and is dressed as sharply as ever. His cravat is orange, and his light-gray suit looks like it came straight from the drycleaners.
He's wearing his usual silver-framed eyeglasses and has his hair neatly parted. Gordon greets the 2 wunderkinds with a curt nod and a firm handshake.
Paul looks like a mess. Gordon grimaces at this but he refrains from opining on the matter. Instead, he focuses on Luciano.
LDJ claps Gordon's back and says, "Good to see you, Gordo! You got everything ready? C'mon, talk to me. Let's deal with this Reed bozo."
Gordon nods, "Yes, yes. We need to talk."
The Pym Reaper takes his seat and clasps his hands together. He still looks tired from all that flying and whatnot.
LDJ sits across from him and asks, "What's the situation? What's going on?"
Gordon sighs, "After finishing up my business in DC, I took a trip to Greenridge."
Paul interjects, "So, how was DC? Did you schmooze with the bigwigs?"
Gordon balefully glares at Paul, "Hmph. Mr. Cho, it wasn't a vacation. But I rubbed a few shoulders up in DC and did the usual song and dance."
LDJ waves dismissively, "Yeah, yeah. Whatever. Tell me about Greenridge. What happened?"
Gordon clears his throat, "I went to the town of his birth and asked around."
Paul leans forward, a wild look in his eyes, "And? Did you find anything?"
Gordon sighs and nods, "Yes. Many things, actually...truth is, I'm even more confused about the whole goddamn thing. Nothing...makes sense. It just...doesn't add up."
The usually stoic and unmoved Pym Reaper has a very troubled expression on his face. Even his voice sounds different.
Luciano demands, "And what'd you see in that town, huh? C'mon, I need deets, Gordo!"
Gordon grimaces and shakes his head, "I...I can't explain it. It's...it's too much. Too much to process. I...I just can't wrap my head around any of it."
Paul gulps and points out, "Well, tell us what you DO know so we can figure it out together. Maybe it's not as bad as you think it is."
Gordon snorts and gives Paul a dirty look, "Oh, believe me, Mr. Cho, it's worse than I could ever imagine. Or maybe I'm just making mountains out of molehills over here. Hmph."
LDJ furrows his brow, "What do you mean? What's going on? It's just 1 fucking Federal Government clown; how bad can it be?!"
Gordon's face twitches, "I--I don't know, Luciano. Part of me wishes I never ever heard the name Markham Reed. Hell, part of me wishes I didn't get in touch with Strickland's people to get rid of him. Maybe paying him off was a...better idea. Maybe."
Luciano frowns and clenches his fists, "Hey! What the fuck's that supposed to mean?! I'm paying you good money here, Gordon! What happened in this Green-whatever-the-hell town?!"
Gordon huffs, "Greenridge, Luciano. It's called Greenridge. It's a small town in the middle of nowhere, USA. A place where nothing happens and nobody ever goes. It's just factories clogging up the fucking place."
He mirthlessly lets out a strained chuckle, "Still, it does have some great property values if either of you are ever interested in buying something there."
P-Money starts playing with his nose. He sniffles and makes all sorts of weird noises. LDJ glares at his friend and motions for him to stop.
Paul does so, and he looks away, embarrassed.
Gordon shakes his head and continues, "I looked around the place, did some snooping on my own. I asked a few questions here and there. It was hard to find anybody who knew Markham Reed."
LDJ growls impatiently, "OK, OK. So, what'd you find out?"
Mr. Pym vaguely states, "I found A Markham Reed. There was a small 'fraud investigation' firm in Greenridge. Employee records were hard to come by, but I have my ways."
Paul sniffs loudly, "And?"
Gordon takes some air into his lungs and exhales slowly, "I spoke with some of Mr. Reed's old co-workers. There was some guy named...uh, something Moskowitz. He and Reed used to work together, apparently."
LDJ grunts, "What'd he say, huh? C'mon, spill the beans! This isn't story time! It's almost lunchtime and I'm hungry!"
The Pym Reaper responds, "Well, nothing much. Or nothing useful to us, at least. Just a lot of talk about how Markham Reed was a pretty quote-unquote 'closed off' kinda guy. Didn't talk much about himself, and he kept to himself...very much so."
Paul nods, "Yeah, OK, what's up with that? Not exactly news, is it?"
Gordon shakes his head, "No, no, it isn't. But...the more I looked into Markham Reed, the more I got the feeling that there was more to it than that. Something...something else was going on."
LDJ throws his head back and groans loudly, "Booooooring. Just tell me how much money you need to have this international man of mystery bumped off. C'mon, Gordo! I don't have all day!"
Gordon's face turns red with anger. He clenches his jaw and hisses, "This isn't a joke, Luciano! There is something that doesn't fit here! Something's not right!"
LDJ shrugs, "Yeah, sure. OK, I get that. Jesus. Take a chill pill, man. Whatever. So, how much are we talking here?"
Gordon rolls his eyes and shakes his head, "You're not listening to me, Luciano! Dammit! This isn't just something we can throw money at. There is something VERY wrong here!"
Paul chimes in, "You're acting like you've seen a freaking ghost, Gordon. I know you. Not even a dead body or--or a messy crime scene would get you this spooked. What's up?"
Gordon looks down at his lap and sighs, "I--I can't explain it. I wish I could. I wish I could put it into words. But it sounds so absurd, so silly when I think about it."
LDJ snaps, "Just spit it out, already! I don't have all fucking day, Gordon!"
Gordon gulps and finally admits, "I managed to get a hold of what I think is Markham Reed's birth certificate."
Luciano snickers, "Oh, is he the offspring of some politician or something?"
Gordon grimly states, "No, Luciano. That's not it. It's...Markham Reed was born in the 1930s. Yet, the file I pulled on him states that he's only 43-years-old."
A look of clueless confusion crosses Paul's face, "Uh...so what? What the hell? How the...? How is that even possible? He--he should either be 70-something or dead by now."
Gordon's face is now ashen white, "There's more to him than meets the eye. I did further digging and found out about his 'older' sister, too. She died in a hit-and-run."
Luciano blithely states, "Boohoo. So, what? People die every day. It's not that big of a deal. Broad should've probably looked both ways before crossing. Tch."
What a repulsive asshole.
Gordon shakes his head and scrunches his forehead with his fingers, "That's not relevant. If her birth certificate was anything to go by, then she was about 3 years older to him."
Paul stammers, "W--What? That's impossible! What the fuck?! How the hell is that even possible?! This is crazy talk, Gordo! Are you sure you didn't hit a massive bong before coming here?"
Gordon shakes his head and firmly responds, "Unlike you, I don't fill my body with narcotics and all that poison. I have standards and a reputation to uphold. I'm not high, Mr. Cho. And I'm NOT making this up."
The Pym Reaper stares into the distance and adds, "I'm telling you, there's something really strange going on here. Markham Reed is either 1 hell of an identity thief or--"
LDJ exclaims with a gasp, "Maybe it's aliens! Like in 'The X-Files'!"
Gordon sighs deeply and clicks his tongue, "No, Luciano. It's not aliens. It's something else. Something...something more sinister. I don't know what it is, but it's not good."
Paul scoffs, "Yeah, OK, so what do we do about it now? I know, like, people in the SEC who we could call up and--"
Gordon declines, "No. If Markham Reed's paperwork could get through the SEC and land him a job there, then we're dealing with something bigger than we thought. We need to be careful about this."
LDJ grumbles, "I don't like this. I don't like this 1 bit. I don't want to have to deal with some secretive government bozo trying to take my money. Just pay the hitters to whack him. I--I don't care how much it costs."
The fixer nods, "I understand, Luciano. But we need to be smart about this. We need to be discreet and--"
Luciano cuts him off, "Fuck that! Fuck being discreet! I'm on a fucking warpath here! I'm making mad money thanks to my secret weapon- my golden goose- and I'm not gonna let ANYBODY stop me from getting to the top!"
Paul sighs, "Luciano, Gordon, I mean, maybe we could just pay him off this time and--"
Luciano screams loudly and stands up, "NO! No, no, no! I'm not letting anybody fuck with me! Nobody! None of you whores! You hear me?! Nobody fucks with LDJ and gets away with it!"
Gordon tries to calm the twerp down, "Luciano, please, sit down. Don't make a scene. We'll deal with this, but we have to know what we're up against."
LDJ sits back down and angrily kicks the coffee table, "FUCK! FUCK! FUCK! FUCK! FUCK!"
Paul looks at Gordon and asks, "So, what's the plan? You wanna plant some dirty things on his computer and let the FCPD handle the rest?"
Gordon faintly smiles, "That would be a move we could make. Maybe. Hmm, no. I need to dig deeper into Markham Reed's past. Something's not right about him."
LDJ hisses, "You said that already. Who cares about the past? It's all about the future now, Gordo! MY future, to be exact. And I'm not letting some fucking small-town nobody come in the way of me and my fucking fortune!"
Gordon shakes his head and emphatically replies, "Luciano, I can't stress this enough. This isn't just some random person we're dealing with. This is someone who has been working for the SEC for years. Before that, as a fraud investigator for a small firm. He was good at what he did and still is."
Paul impatiently says, "OK, so what? What's your point? He can't be bought off like the rest, is that what you're saying?"
Gordon glares at Paul, "My point is that this guy knows what he's doing, whoever he is. He's either stolen the original Markham Reed's identity or IS, somehow, still Markham Reed. Hmph, either way, this is somebody who's not gonna be easily taken down, that much is certain."
LDJ huffs, "Fine. So, we'll have him killed. Done and done. No problem. Problem solved. Let's get to it. Call those hitters and this time, I wanna talk to 'em!"
Gordon counters, "I wouldn't recommend that, Luciano. Trust me. These are not the kinds of people you wanna casually chat with. They're professionals and professionals have standards."
Paul lifts an eyebrow, "Hey, hey, hey! What are you implying, huh? They're just a bunch of fucking contract killers who waste people for money. What's so special about them?"
Gordon stares at Paul and coldly tells him, "They're not the kind of people you want to get too involved with, Mr. Cho. They don't play games. Believe me when I'm saying that I'm doing this for your own good by not involving either of you in this mess."
LDJ sneers, "You're talking about these guys like they're the fucking government or something. Tch. They're just a bunch of hired guns."
Gordon coolly states, "They ARE a part of the US government. Or at least that's what my own research into them seems to indicate. But that's beside the point. You just let ME deal with them on YOUR behalf, OK?"
Luciano rolls his eyes, "Yeah, fine. You got some kind of a fancy word for it, right?"
Gordon answers, "Plausible deniability...and all that crap." He smirks at his client.
Paul chuckles, "Yeah, OK. That's cool. So, what do we do now? Do we just wait around until you go and get this Reed guy killed? Again? What the hell happened the 1st time anyway?"
Gordon scratches his cheek, "I don't know. I honestly don't know. We paid them good money to take care of it. They said they'd take care of it. I don't know what happened."
Luciano gets up and claps his hands together, "Well, if I have to spend another 60 large, I'll do it. If they fucking fail again, I'm gonna demand a double refund! You hear me?!"
Gordon sighs deeply and points out, "They don't do refunds. Once the money has been paid, it's non-refundable. I told you this before."
LDJ shrugs, "Well, then, I guess they better get it right this time. Cuz if they don't..."
Gordo glowers at LDJ, "You'll do what, hmm? Act all tough? Tell them who your dad is? Cut the tough-guy act, kid. These are professionals. They've been doing this for years. And they're very, VERY good at what they do."
He states, "It was just a mishap of some kind. It happens. Even professionals get sloppy every now and again."
Paul lightly smacks Gordon's arm, "Heh, you're talking from experience, huh? I thought YOU were always on your A-game, Mr. Pym Reaper."
Gordon frowns, "I am. But even I have a few mistakes in my closet." His head is turned aside, and his mind is seemingly elsewhere. He's got a fairly blank look on his face.
In his case, it's a whole lot more than a few whoopsie-doopsies!
Luciano announces, "OK, so it's been decided! C'mon, lunchtime! Gordon, you're coming with!"
Paul rubs his hands together and bites his lower lip, "Oh, yeah! I'm starving! Let's go, guys! Let's eat!"
Gordon lazily stands up and trudges along with the 2 wonder boys. He's still feeling very uneasy about the whole situation. There's something about Markham Reed that doesn't quite add up.
He's not sure what it is yet, but he's determined to find out.
Of course, he could never know (or be allowed to know) that Markham Reed is a Kindred, hence the inconsistent records.
This only begs the question: how did Mr. Reed manage to successfully apply for a job at the SEC in Seattle? Well, that thanks to some good ol' fashioned forgery.
Thanks to Darla, the blue Nosferatu lady, and her prowess in regard to such matters, Markham Reed was able to pass the background check and everything else with flying colors.
Even then, the SEC's background checks weren't exactly the most thorough and rigorous in the world. Sure, they're pretty good, but they're not perfect and Darla's excellent forgeries held up pretty darn well under the scrutiny, all things considered.
Of course, it's a different story when it comes to someone like Gordon Pym. He seemed to be a lot more stringent and thorough in his background checking and what have you.
Markham Reed is not the average (mortal) Joe. The next hitter sent after the Baali would soon learn that the hard (and fatal) way.
The trio arrive at none other than The Heartland Grill And Bar. Traffic was rather dense on the way here and it's sunnier than usual, not to mention the cops swarming the streets.
LDJ flashes his golden membership card and is ushered to a table for 3. On the way up, he spots Marcus Lancaster sitting at a table, all alone and reading a finance magazine of some sort. He's got a briefcase right next to him.
Luciano calls out, "Hey, Marcus!"
Marcus looks up from his mag and blinks, "Huh? Wha...? Who?"
Luciano briskly walks towards him and shakes him, "Hey! It's me! What are you doin' here, huh?"
Marcus gulps and awkwardly states, "Um, I--I was hungry and..."
Paul guffaws and elbows his buddy, "C'mon, Luciano! I'm hungry!"
Luciano looks at Marcus from head to toe and suggests, "Join us...ya fucking party animal! C'mon, it'll be fun! Hey, Gordon! Get over here, I wanna introduce you to someone!"
The Pym Reaper does his usual sigh-groan and complies. He waddles over to Marcus Lancaster's table.
LDJ puts his hand around Gordo's shoulders and makes the necessary introduction, "This here is Gordon Pym."
Marcus's jaw almost drops, "Y...you're THE Gordon Pym? The Pym Reaper? Man, you got a helluva rep, dog."
Gordon raises his chin and sternly regards Mr. Lancaster, "Hmph. My reputation precedes me, yes. And you are...?"
Marcus's eyes twinkle, "Marcus Lancaster. Stockbroker extraordinaire." He extends his hand.
Gordon shakes it firmly, "Ah, yes. Lancaster. Clarence Lancaster is your grandfather, right?"
When that's mentioned, Marcus's expression sours, "Yeah, grrrfgh. Don't ever try to mention him in the same sentence as my name again. Ugh."
LDJ laughs, "Yeah, yeah. So, why the long face, huh?"
Marcus shakes his head and lazily waves his hand, "Let's just go and eat. C'mon."
Lunch is pricey (of course it is, in a place like this). The boys verbally circle jerk each other and make big and grandiose plans for the future, meanwhile Gordon eats his food quietly and observes the 3 of them.
The blah blah blah is about their financials being in the green, shit like that. Fairly banal and utterly meaningless stuff.
Gordo's a very private man. There's not much to be said about him, and he doesn't say much, either. He sips his drink, goes through his chicken parm in minutes, throws his part of the bill down on the table, and takes his leave.
Luciano groans and calls out, "Dammit, Gordo! We're not done talking yet! We have shit to discuss! Sit your ass back down!"
Paul lightly scoffs, "Just let him go. He knows what he's doing, man."
Gordon concurs with Mr. Cho and saunters off to go and meet with Mr. Strickland. Time for "Contract Out On Markham Reed: Part Deux"
Part Une went so well, didn't it?
It isn't long before Mr. Pym finds himself in the back of a van, smelly burlap sack on his head. The van ride is bumpy and long. Gordon is practically dripping from every pore in his body, and he's worried that he's about to suffer some kind of a heatstroke.
After 60+ minutes of the most miserable ride in his life, the van stops, and Gordon is escorted out of the vehicle. The sack is ripped off and Mr. White gestures to where Mr. Strickland is standing.
Gordo's vision is blurred, so he takes a few seconds to readjust to the sudden change in light. He almost tumbles over, but Mr. White steadies him.
Gordon glares at the assassin, "It's fine. It's fine. Now, where is he?"
Mr. White grins and licks his lips, "Right over there."
Gordon looks around and sees that he's under some kind of overpass near the city's outskirts. Mr. Strickland's back is ramrod straight and there's a leashed poodle beside him. The poodle has a collar, and the tag is very noticeable.
Mr. Strickland has a smug look on his face as Gordon tiredly walks up to him.
"So, here we are, Mr. Pym."
Gordon pops his neck and groans as he feels a stiffness in his joints. "Yeah, yeah. I'm here. So are you. Is all the driving around and sack-on-the-head thing really necessary?"
Mr. Strickland raises his chin as a few vehicles zoom by overhead, "Oh, yes, absolutely. You have to be careful about these things, you know? I take Operational Security very seriously, Mr. Pym. It's 1 of the many reasons why my organization has been able to thrive for so long."
"Hmph. Even then, I'm not a nobody--"
Mr. Strickland lifts a finger, "Ah, ah, ah. Yes, your reputation does precede you, but I have had to take certain measures...in light of recent events. I'm sure you can appreciate that, hmm?"
Gordon grumpily states, "Yeah, yeah. Just get on with it."
Mr. Strickland's lips curl in an ugly and unsettling grin, "Very well. You're here about our shared enigma, aren't you? Markham Reed."
The small, white-furred poodle starts to wag its tail and even goes to lick Gordon's shoes. Gordo grimaces and lightly shoves the mutt off with his shoe.
Mr. Strickland gently commands, "Darlene, arrt (FR: stop). Talon (FR: heel)!"
The poodle immediately stops, sits on its haunches, and stares up at Mr. Strickland, tongue wagging like crazy.
He tells Gordon, "See? She knows her place."
Gordon sighs and remarks, "Didn't take you for much of a dog guy."
Mr. Strickland shrugs and cracks a slightly wan smile, "Oh, I am quite the animal lover, Mr. Pym. I have 3 cats at home and this dog used to belong to a target."
Gordon looks down at the poodle and wonders out loud, "'Used to'?"
Mr. Strickland's eyes reflect something menacing, "Indeed. The target was taken care of by 1 of my soldiers. Such a fine thing ought not to be put down in some godforsaken shelter, so I...adopted her, seeing that her previous owner had expired. I couldn't bear the thought of a lovely creature like this being whacked."
Mr. Strickland crouches down and lovingly pets the poodle's head, "I like to feed this city's pigeons every now and then, and I am a bit of an avid birdwatcher. They're such...fascinating creatures."
Gordon is unimpressed and dryly states, "So much for your operational security. If you're telling me all this, then that means you're not as discreet as you think you are."
Mr. Strickland chuckles, "What can I say? I am something of a misanthrope. I much prefer the company of animals over bipedal creatures. Humans, especially, are so...lacking in any kind of a sense of refinement and loyalty."
He strokes the dog's head some more and adds, "Regardless, I shepherd the brave men and women under my command. And my soldiers do need their general as of late."
"Hmm. Fun. So, about Markham Reed. $60,000 like last time. And please make sure he stays dead, this time."
Mr. Strickland raises an eyebrow, "Don't tell me how to do my job, Mr. Pym. What happened last time was...unfortunate, yes. But slip-ups and bumps are to be expected in this line of work; even I can't prepare for ALL eventualities and worst-case scenarios."
Gordon stares out into the vastness, "So, you're telling me that even the best hitters in the world can't always guarantee a certain outcome? Hmm."
Mr. Strickland faintly grunts, "I don't need your snide comments, Mr. Pym. It shan't happen again. I've had my people trail this Reed fellow for the past few days."
"Anything interesting?"
"Only that he's ever seen at nights and manages to shake off and lose my people every single time."
Gordon mucks around with his cravat and blandly muses, "That's something, at least. How many hitters are we talking about? A squad?"
Mr. Strickland shakes his head from side to side, "You let me and my people decide how to best go about this, Mr. Pym. You're paying for a dead body, not the details."
"Hmph. Whatever. And if any of you screw up again--"
Mr. Strickland takes on a more ominous tone, "You'll what, hmm? Like me, you're a professional; these kinds of threats are beneath you. Just have the cash ready. And keep an eye out for day-after-tomorrow's news." There's a smug and self-assured look on his face.
He goes on, "This Markham Reed is our enigma. I did some digging into him. Needless to say, 1 bottle of Aspirin wasn't quite enough to drive away the headache I had got when going through this man's records. The guy's a bit of an odd duck."
"Is that so? What do you know? Who are your sources?"
"I seem to know about as much as you do- judging by the desperation in your voice. As for my sources, I still have a few contacts in intelligence. They're quite forthcoming with me."
"Hmph. I see. I'll keep an eye out for day-after-tomorrow's news, I guess."
Gordon turns around and begins to walk off. Mr. Strickland doesn't say anything, but his dog, Darlene, follows Gordon with her beady poodle eyes.
Mr. White is leaning against the van, arms folded and looking as menacing as ever. He silently presents the same burlap sack to Gordo and holds the back door open for him.
Mr. Pym's brow furrows as he looks up at the overpass, "Oh, great. You know, just bonk me over the head. I feel nauseous with that fucking thing over my head."
Mr. White chuckles, "I left my nightstick at home. Now, put the sack back on."
Gordon grabs it and holds it close, "What's up with this piece of cloth?! It smells disgusting!"
"I dunno. I think someone jerked off in there once! Hahahahaha!" Mr. White chortles and cackles.
Gordon rolls his eyes and puts the burlap sack on his head as Mr. White gets him all settled in the back.
The Pym Reaper mumbles, "Professionals my ass."
The drive is mercifully short this time, and Gordon is somewhat grateful for that.
Mr. Strickland spots a few pigeons nearby. He reaches into his coat's pockets, for some bits of bread, and tosses them over to the hungry birdies.
As he's feeding the birds, a woman approaches him. She's quite stocky and her platinum blonde hair is tied into a tight ponytail. She's got a few faded scars here and there.
She firmly salutes her general and maintains a stiff upper lip.
Mr. Strickland salutes her back and gives her a warm smile, "Ah, hello, Ms. Blue. Keeping well?"
"Yes, sir!"
"Good. I have a job for you. Ms. Green and Mr. White have further details for you. Everything else is in the dossier."
Ms. Blue asks, "This the asshole who took out Daniel Percy, sir?"
Mr. Strickland nods, "That would appear to be the case, yes. I don't know how Reed did it and Daniel's body still hasn't been found. This is a...unique case. Ms. Green and Mr. White are the ones that you need to talk to. This one requires a certain finesse. A certain...subtlety."
Ms. Blue's expression hardens, "Understood, sir! S--Should I go at it alone or take backup along?"
Mr. Strickland replies, "If you're fine with splitting the fee with someone else. Otherwise, go at it solo. I leave that to your discretion, Miss Blue. Ms. Green and Mr. White have some additional intel for you. Dismissed, soldier."
Ms. Blue salutes her boss and trots over to her car. It's a shiny sedan with darkened windows. She gets in her car and starts prepping herself for the hit that's gonna go down tomorrow night.
She starts making plans. She hits a few gun stores, studies a few maps, and checks her weaponry. She's decided to go at it solo, so she doesn't have to share the 60K (minus Mr. Strickland's very small cut) with anybody else.
Her mind is sharp, and her training is very thorough. She's a seasoned veteran of this grim line of work and is very good at what she does.
Mr. Strickland looks up at the overpass once more. He checks his watch and tells his poodle, "I have another meeting in a few hours' time, Darlene. People are exhausting, but alas. They do pay well."
Darlene barks a few times as way of response.
Mr. Strickland continues, "The job will be done soon enough. We're not leaving anything to chance this time. Markham Reed will meet his maker, and this can finally be put to rest. It's never too good to dwell on the past."
The poodle wags her tail and licks her master's shoes. He doesn't seem to mind the dog's affection.
The FBI's Special Affairs Division was already nearing the city limits. The afternoon heat is vicious. It's now 5 PM. The sun will soon set, and that means the Kindred in this part of the globe will awaken from their daylight rest.
Time drags on, with the sun gradually moving across the sky. Gordon is back home, fast asleep in the comforting familiarity of his own bed.
On the road, an SUV is driving down the highway, almost passing the speed limit. The radio is playing a catchy song, and the passengers in the car are focused as can be.
Special Agent Cuomo and Agent Heartley are in the back, discussing and going over some things. The driver is in the front, eyes glued to the road ahead.
The city is bathed in an almost ethereal orange-pink hue. The SUV is speeding down the highway, on the way to what'll act as a temporary field office for the SAD.
Special Agent Cuomo sniffs and wipes some sauce from off the corner of his mouth, "Ugh. This is why I never go for double cheeseburgers."
Agent Heartley shrugs, "Eh, sometimes the flavor is worth it, boss."
"Hmm. So, you read that file on that so-called 'asset' we're supposed to be meeting up with soon?"
"Hff. What file? 90% of it was redacted! Who the hell is this guy?"
Special Agent Cuomo sighs deeply, "Hell if I know, Heather. I made a few calls to ask around, but they all more or less told me a variation of the same thing: he's intelligence, don't touch him."
Agent Heartley throws her head back and clicks her tongue, "Oh, if he's ours, then maybe we play ball with him, y'know?"
"Sure. I just don't like walking into shit blind. You know that."
Agent Heartley's face hardens, "I know that, Harold."
She pauses for a moment and stares at the scenery whizzing by.
Special Agent Harold puts his hand on her tense shoulder and asks, "So, what's the deal? How's your family doing? Kids still raising hell back home, huh?"
Agent Heather wistfully watches the blue skies above, "Yeah, they're doing good, sir. Youngest just lost his 1st tooth, so he's making a big thing out of it. The oldest one's having a bit of a rough patch, but she'll bounce back."
She then snaps to her senses and turns her head sideways, "I'm sorry, sir. I--I shouldn't let my feelings cloud my professional judgment. Especially now."
Special Agent Harold shakes his head, "You're fine, Heather. After all, we signed up for this so we can keep Americans safe, right?"
Agent Heather nods, "Yes, sir. Yes, we did. And if this 'asset' is a reliable source, then...maybe he's just what we need to get rid of the blank bodies in Flimont City, right?"
"Hmm."
Agent Heartley pulls out a photo of her 2 children. It was taken a few years back and is a bit worn around the edges. She looks at it, smiles, and looks at her boss, "They're why I'm doing what I do."
Special Agent Cuomo is lost in "deep" thought and snaps out of it when he hears his subordinate.
He takes the picture and nods, "You're a good Agent, Heather. A damn good Agent. And I don't say that to just any of my subordinates."
Agent Heather remarks, "I don't want my kids being turned into someone's fucking midnight snack, Harold. We kill every single one of those blank bodied bastards we find. No exceptions. No quarter given. We make an example of them, Harry."
Whoa.
Special Agent Harold blinks a few times and acknowledges, "I appreciate your...enthusiasm, but...yeah, let's not get too worked up about this, Heather. Let's keep in mind that these...blank bodies are not the norm, and we should be grateful that they're actually...so abnormal that we can usually tell."
"Hmm. I've sorted everything out on my end. I've put together a competent team of agents for us to make use of during the op. We'll be ready by the time we're at the location. Should we name this op, sir?"
Special Agent Cuomo lightly scoffs, "Operation names are for 10-year-olds who like playing soldier. Hm, no. Besides, there's less of a paper trail if we don't name the op. That usually helps with deniability in case things go south."
Agent Heather lifts an eyebrow, "We...we're not expecting it to go south, right?"
"You have to be prepared for every contingency, Agent Heartley."
The FBI's Special Affairs Division is now in the city proper. Agent Heather gently tucks the photograph of her kids away.
After a few more minutes of silently wading through the traffic build-up, the SAD vehicle pulls up to a large building. It's gonna be the temporary base of operations for the SAD.
It's a nondescript, 3-story building with no windows and reinforced steel. On paper, it belongs to this and that shell corporation, and the name on the deed changes every few months or so.
It's not like it's the first time the SAD has had to use a place like this. But it's a very good thing that it's so nondescript and doesn't really stick out amongst the sea of similar looking buildings in this area.
Special Agent Harold Cuomo and Agent Heather Heartley step out of the SUV and look around. They're in a pretty deserted locale. There are not that many people around. No pigeons are flying overhead and noises from the street are muffled.
Agent Heartley notices this and remarks, "That's...odd. It feels...silent?"
Special Agent Cuomo shrugs and puts on his FBI cap. Agent Heartley throws her FBI field jacket on and starts buttoning it up.
The 2 FBI-SAD operatives walk towards the building's front door. There's a guy standing near the door. He's wearing an open trench coat, black jeans, and a buttoned shirt.
Special Agent Cuomo is ready to brief his fellow goons on what's going on.
An hour later...
The sun begins its drama-less descent in the sky. The clouds up above are few and far between, and the city's skyline is slowly transforming from the deep blue that it was a few minutes ago, into a deep and dark indigo.
Special Agent Cuomo and Agent Heartley are now seated in a small and cramped room, with Mr. Strickland seated opposite them.
The FBI's star Field Agents look at this strange old man. Special Agent Cuomo has a poker face, but his eyes are burning with intense...fury?
Agent Heartley, however, is trying her best not to stare at the weird old dude sitting across from her. She's trying her best not to make eye contact with him.
A blue-eyed Ragdoll cat is curled up on Mr. Strickland's lap. He gently pets it and smiles when it purrs.
Mr. Strickland takes a deep breath and clears his throat. He looks at the 2 FBI agents and begins, "It's very nice to meet you both. My name is Mr. Strickland."
Special Agent Cuomo leans forward, "Is that your first, middle, or last name?"
Mr. Strickland calmly retorts, "What does my file say?"
Agent Heather answers, "Almost 90% of it is redacted!"
Mr. Strickland smirks, "As it should be. I was informed of the FBI's arrival in our lovely city. I was told to offer assistance, in any way that I could."
This is gonna be 1 hell of a talk!
Special Agent Cuomo raises his chin, "So, what's your story, Mr. Strickland? I asked around and everyone I spoke with suddenly took on a vow of silence. Who the hell are you?"
Mr. Strickland's smile doesn't waver, "I am but a simple man, a patriot like yourself and your colleague here. Your names have eluded me. Agents...?"
"Cuomo. Harold Cuomo. FBI Special Agent. Special people get to call me Harry, and you've not earned that right. This here is Agent Heather Heartley, my second-in-command."
Agent Heartley is still feeling a bit wary around this creepy old dude who runs an organization that kills people (and kids) for large sums of money. The way Mr. Strickland affectionately strokes and pets his cat is (also) unsettling, to say the least.
Mr. Strickland turns to look at Agent Heartley, "Miss Heartley. What a beautiful name. Such a lovely name, even."
Agent Heather smiles tightly, "Thank you, sir."
Mr. Strickland looks back at Special Agent Harold, "You wanted to know my story, Agent Cuomo?"
"Fill in the blanks for us."
Mr. Strickland starts, "Well, let's not waste time with my background. That's not what either of you are here for, correct?"
Special Agent Cuomo grumbles, "Your file looks like an oil spill. I just wanna know who I'm gonna be working with."
Mr. Strickland's lower lip moves to the side and he states, "That, I'm afraid, is classified. Several levels above whatever clearance level you 2 currently hold."
Special Agent Harold rolls his eyes, "I've never heard of anything like that in my whole career, Mr. Strickland. So, I'll ask again, who are you?"
Mr. Strickland menacingly leans forward and joins his hands together, "I fight the enemy within our great country. I do not owe you or your subordinate here any further explanation. Now, what's the reason of your visit to our lovely city, hmm?"
Special Agent Cuomo gives out the non-classified answer, "The FBI is looking into a potential bioterrorist threat here. We've been tracking a group of individuals and have evidence that they're planning some kind of attack."
Mr. Strickland blinks a few times, "I see. Should I be wearing a mask, then?"
Special Agent Cuomo callously retorts, "Burn your clothes for all I care. I was told, by my superiors, that you'd be able to help us. So, if that's the case, then you can start by telling us more. You've got connections in this city, right?"
Mr. Strickland smiles, "You've been briefed, then, yes. I do have...connections, but your superiors are fully cognizant of the fact that I'm under no obligation to reveal all of them to you. I do what I do because I believe it's my duty as a citizen of this great nation of ours, and that is the extent of my involvement."
Agent Heather chimes in, brows furrowed in confusion, "So, you're...what? An info-broker or...?"
Mr. Strickland shakes his head and replies, "I am but a humble soldier, like you and your superior over here, Agent Heartley. If you want to know something, then ask. And I will tell you."
Agent Heather incredulously asks, "That easy, huh? What's your angle here? What's the catch?"
Mr. Strickland's answer is vague and just the right amount of menacing, "Oh, the carrot is big enough to the point where the stick becomes unnecessary. Ask, and I shall answer. That's it. Why further complicate things, hmm?"
Special Agent Cuomo gets a bit annoyed, and he squares his jaw, "Your file said you were MACV-SOG."
Mr. Strickland smiles fondly and pets his cat, "Ah, yes, that. Indeed, I was. I served our country during the Vietnam War, Agent Cuomo. And I served it with great pride and absolutely no regrets."
Special Agent Cuomo lifts his chin, "Well, uh...thank you for your service, I guess. I had some cousins who were drafted and they won't shut up about the PTSD, to this day."
Mr. Strickland faintly hums, "You're welcome. We had to fight in Vietnam to stem the rising red tide. I did my part, as did your cousins and probably your other relatives. Now, what else would you like to know about me?"
Special Agent Harold is silent as he processes everything Mr. Strickland just said. He looks at his second-in-command, and she looks back at him.
Agent Heather remarks, "Yeah, well, you didn't stem it hard enough. A lot of folk out there are still...red." She has a sneer on her face when saying that.
Mr. Strickland chuckles, "Indeed, my dear. A great deal of people are swayed by such radical ideas. It's a shame that we're not all good and decent citizens of this great nation of ours. The enemy within is a whole lot more pernicious than the enemy without."
Special Agent Harold has a grim look on his face. He concurs, "You've got a point there, Mr. Strickland. The enemy within can do a whole lotta damage. Hell, they already have."
With bitterness lacing his voice, he adds, "All those fucking protests, those goddamn riots. Fucking Moslems and--and terrorists threatening our very goddamn way of life."
Mr. Strickland stares at Harold and remarks, "Well said, Special Agent. You're a very smart man. Yes, it's all these goldbricking Pinkos, these backstabbing traitors in college campuses, and more recently, Moslems and their savage hatred of our way of life, too."
He continues, "So, it would appear that we are fighting a similar enemy, then? The enemy within?"
Special Agent Cuomo dryly responds, "Something like that, yeah. But our methods vary. I don't know what kinda show you're running here, but it can't be above-board."
Mr. Strickland remains composed, "It's a new world, Special Agent Cuomo. We are no longer constrained by the rules and laws that you are held back by. We wage our war against the enemies within our borders, as you presumably do."
Agent Heather fiddles with her shirt collar, "Yep. That's...us. Fighting the enemy within, the treasonous, the traitors, the terrorists."
"Hmm. Yes, indeed. Our very own home-grown troubles," Mr. Strickland states.
Mr. Strickland turns his head and looks at Special Agent Cuomo, "What we do, however, we do from the shadows."
Special Agent Harold perches an eyebrow, "'We'?"
Mr. Strickland cracks the tiniest of smiles, "You both may interpret that however you please. I train my...people to do 3 things for their country."
Agent Heather sniffs and crosses her legs, "The '3 things' being...?"
"Fight, Kill, and Die," Mr. Strickland straightforwardly replies, as if he's reciting a mantra. He drills "FKD" into the heads of the hitters under his command.
Special Agent Harold shakes his head, and his eyes widen a little, "Whoa, you don't fuck around, do you? And these people of yours, they--"
Mr. Strickland stops petting his cat and lifts his hand, "That, Harold, remains my prerogative...and mine alone. If you have issues, call your superiors. Needless to say, we fight against a similar foe, but our methods do vary. And at times...they do converge."
Agent Heather clears her throat and wordlessly shuffles in her seat.
Special Agent Cuomo has an inscrutable look on his face. He prods, "And what are YOUR methods, exactly?"
Mr. Strickland grimly and ominously replies, "Inhuman enemies require inhuman tactics. I'm sure you and your subordinate here would agree with that tactical assessment, yes?"
Special Agent Cuomo slowly nods, "Yup. We share a common foe, then. All you gotta know is that we're here looking for some really dangerous individuals. We have reason to believe they've been operating here...for years."
Mr. Strickland blinks and takes a deep breath, "So you say. In truth, I've never heard anything about this. If there were bioterrorists plotting something here in Flimont City for that long, then I would've known about them. It's my job to know these things, you see--"
Agent Heather interrupts, "These...bioterrorists are some sneaky sons of bitches. They stop at nothing to blend in and fly under the radar. Just admit that some things do actually happen right under your nose."
Mr. Strickland's eyes widen for a split second, and he retorts, "I assure you, Miss Heartley, that I am acutely aware of what goes on in this city. Then again, I'm sure you both have your reasons for...withholding intel from me. Regardless, I do look forward to working together."
The blue-eyed Ragdoll cat yawns and stretches out. It purrs softly and licks Mr. Strickland's fingers.
He gently pets the cat's head and smiles, "It would be a shame, however, if we weren't to get along. Ah, well. I will make sure that any assistance I can offer is of the highest quality. We only wish to see Americans remain safe. That's our common goal, yes?"
Special Agent Harold looks around the cramped room, "Yeah, freedom and security. We'll do our jobs, and if we need help, we'll come to you."
He glares at the guy petting his cat and firmly commands, "Don't interfere with our op and don't get in our way. Are we clear on this?"
Mr. Strickland's face becomes devoid of emotion as he looks at Special Agent Cuomo, "Crystal. I am, after all, quite an order-follower. Now, I give 'em out, but I know when to defer to those with a differing clearance level. Don't worry, Special Agent Cuomo. We'll stay out of your way."
He continues with a request, "All I humbly ask is that you and your people refrain from harming any animals, if you would be so kind. People are fair game, of course. But the rest of these critters are precious to me."
Mr. Strickland picks up his cat, stands up, and leaves the room. He ends the talk on his own terms, it would seem. He stands by the rusty door and holds it open for the FBI-SAD duo.
They get the hint. They both get up, dust themselves off, and step out. Mr. Strickland watches them, keenly, as they are walking back to their vehicle.
Agent Heartley turns to Special Agent Cuomo, "Whoa. What the hell was that? I know this guy's ours, but HOW? Is he on the payroll, did someone flip him, did he turn state's evidence, did he--"
Special Agent Cuomo wipes his face and mutters, "Fuck me, this is a crazy mess, Heather. This shit's above both our paygrades combined. I think...I think we're gonna have to be play nice with him."
Special Agent Cuomo is silent for a second as he's thinking. He slowly responds, "I dunno, but I'm starting to think there's a lot more to this guy than we thought."
Agent Heather shrugs and picks up the pace back to the SUV, "Fair enough. He just gives me the, I dunno, heebie-jeebies, ya know? Some people just make your skin crawl the more you look at them and sit down to talk to them."
"Hmph. Good instincts. Yeah, we'll have to keep a close eye on this guy. It's a bit too late to kick him to the curb, so we work with him and get what useful intel we can get outta him."
Special Agent Harold climbs into the SUV. Agent Heather follows suit. He taps the back of the driver's seat and commands, "Drive."
"Sir." The SUV roars to life, and it starts speeding back down the highway.
Special Agent Cuomo looks uneasy and he spends a few minutes, deep in silent and grim thought.
Agent Heartley glances at her boss and notices his furrowed brows and the tightness of his jaw. She leans closer and whispers, "He's a bit of a weird guy, huh?"
"Mm-hmm. Between me and you? I don't trust that son of a bitch 1 bit."
"Oh."
"Hmm. But we agreed to work with him for the time being. After the op's done in this city, I want you to put a tap on him; have some of our people follow him, see what he's up to, trail him from his home to wherever he's going. The usual."
Agent Heather's eyes widen, "What?? He--he's intelligence, sir! You really wanna go after 1 of our own?"
Special Agent Cuomo doubles down on his suspicions regarding Mr. Strickland, "Agent Heartley, when I give you an order, I except you to follow it without question, without second-guessing me, without--"
Agent Heather sharply interrupts, "But, sir, it's against all kinds of protocols! HE'S INTELLIGENCE! He's practically untouchable from where we're standing!"
"I don't care! I'm putting my foot down on this! I don't care! I just don't trust this son of a bitch, and we need to find out what the hell he's REALLY up to!"
Special Agent Harold lowers his voice and continues, "You're right, Heather. He's 1 of us. If we're gonna be working together, then we gotta play nice with each other. I'll do that dance, for now. But the second we're done with the blank bodies, we go after him."
His tone leaves no inch for arguing.
Agent Heartley sighs softly, "Yes, sir. Just don't say that I didn't warn you. If anyone finds out that we're--"
Special Agent Cuomo cuts her off, "We'll just tell anyone that he's a person of interest. Hell, tell 'em he's a fucking blank body for all I care. Who's gonna argue with the SAD about THAT kind of thing?"
"Well...if the higher-ups find out..."
"Then we'll un-fuck ourselves, and I can still keep my badge and my pension. Besides, it's a new world out there, Heather. The rules of engagement HAVE drastically changed since our last field op."
Agent Heather gives her superior a significant look, "I suppose so. Also, the blank bodies don't play by our rules, so yeah...we might have to make a few Faustian Bargains, step on a few toes, and do a whole lot of things in the grey area."
Special Agent Harold nods, "Yeah, yeah. Absolutely. See that?" he points to the darkened, sunless skies above.
"Hm. Yeah. Sun's down. That usually means those creepy fucks are coming out to play, huh?"
"Yup. It's only a matter of time until they make their move. We'll have to be ready for it. Let's just hope that this...doesn't end badly for either of us."
"Yeah, I'd hate to think what my 2 kids would do i--if mom doesn't make it home alive."
Special Agent Cuomo lazily pats her, "Don't worry, Heather, you'll get to be there for all their moments- prom, recital, graduation, whatever. You'll get to be there for all of it." He smiles at her, but it's not entirely reassuring.
"Thanks, sir. That--that means a lot. And um...about Mr. Strickland?"
"Mm-hmm. We'll watch him, and when the time is right, we'll get him. For now, I'm laser-focused on the blank body 'bioterrorist' threat in this city. That's our primary focus."
"Yes, sir."
The FBI's Special Affairs Division is now officially in Flimont City. The SAD is officially a part of the Second Inquisition's Coalition. The Coalition itself has "branches" all over the world.
The Coalition itself is an illicit and covert multinational conspiracy within many intelligence services and the Vatican (yep) dedicated to hunting vampires and other entities that go bump at night.
From the FBI's SAD (amongst others) in the US of A to the UK's Branch 16 (again, among others) to Israel's notorious Unit 8211 to Brazil's BOES, this shit is international!
And those are just the Coalition Orgs aligned with various oppressive governments and repressive alphabet agencies! There are also private (corpo), academic, vigilante, religious, and unaffiliated Orgs out there, too.
But those are for another time!
In Flimont City, the FBI (along with the SAD) are here to "officially" investigate a possible bioterrorist threat and put down the same. Unofficially, however, they're here to ram stakes in vamps, capture a few (if possible), blow shit up, burn places down, and more.
The sun has fully set now. The world outside is darkening. Streetlights lazily flicker on, cars clog the streets as evening traffic builds up to an agonizing peak, and the city's bustling (Un)nightlife is in full swing.
Clarice, the Malkavian Primogen, was suspended in the pulls of her day-sleep by an hour. As she's coming to, her eyes flutter open and she blinks.
She looks around her, and she doesn't recognize anything. Everything around her is so trippy- colors not on the standard visible light spectrum dance around, and shapes that are almost beyond her comprehension flit in and out of view.
Clarice is on some sort of a high, and she's having a bad trip. A real bad one. Well, that's what tends to happen when one ingests LSD prior to one's Embrace.
It was back in the 1980s and she's not sure what she was thinking when she took it, but it was a not the greatest of decisions, in retrospect. It's all a blur, really. She remembers her Sire "convincing" her to take it since she'd be dead (and reborn) in no time.
Then, she'd (presumably) forget all the bad stuff, and she'd just be happy, or something like that.
Her Sire had a wicked smile on his face, and there was a disturbingly crazy glint in his heterochromatic eyes.
As soon as the Lysergic acid diethylamide dissolved on her tongue and hit her brain, everything became a weird-ass blur as she felt her Sire's fangs sinking deep into her neck.
And the rest is history. Needless to say, Clarice's Embrace was a very bad trip.
Back to the now...
The Malk finds herself in...that place. The one that exists solely in the minds of ALL of Malkav's past and present Children- the Malkavian Madness Network.
Clarice is immediately hit by a barrage of voices from all directions.
"You don't stare at the sun!"
Someone else abruptly screams out, "THIS IS THE MARKET!"
"The tongs pull open the door."
Clarice pushes through the sea of voices, feeling that someone in the midst of this trippy madness is trying to reach out to her. The Malk Primogen hears the distant roar of the ocean waves, and she walks towards the source.
She can taste the salty, ocean breeze, and she can feel the warm sand between her toes.
Somebody calls out to her, specifically, "Clarice! Teacher! Schoolteacher! I--I saw something! I--"
Whoever that was is cut off by some steely-voiced gal calling out, "You can't hide, you sure can't hide, from th--the x-ray eyes! Hehehehehehe!"
Clarice pushes all those voices aside as best she can and trudges closer to what she believes is the source of the voice that called out to her by name.
She spots a very familiar-looking young man, dressed in a green, wool sweater. He's sitting cross-legged on the sand. He looks quite young, and his complexion is unhealthily pale.
Clarice's lips move, "Dallas? Is that you, darling? What's bothering you?"
Dallas gasps and looks up at his fellow Seer, "T--Teacher? Y--you're here, too?" he has a wild look in his eyes, and his pupils are blown wide. He looks like he's about to have a breakdown.
Clarice gently answers, "Of course I am. You dragged me all the way...out here. You said you saw something. Care to elaborate?"
Dallas starts mumbling, "Momo and Feather. Momo and Feather are here. SAD. Ess-Ayy-Dee. So SAD, so BAD, so FED, and it's not good! Oh no, oh no, oh no! Not good, NOT GOOD AT ALL! Bad, bad, bad, bad, bad! Oh no, oh no, oh no!"
Clarice gently commands him, "Calm yourself, Dallas. Use your words. Arrange them in a more coherent fashion. I'll hear you out, and we can discuss this. Come, come. Tell me."
Dallas's hands start shaking and he rocks back and forth. He whispers, "Momo and Feather...names. Faces, all blurry. Ess-Ayy-Dee. I'm so SAD! They--they're here, Clarice, here...for us."
The Malkavian Primogen, being a former schoolteacher, is accustomed to dealing with such antics and eccentricities.
She takes a deep breath and prods, "That's interesting, isn't it? But why are you so upset about this? Who are these Momo and Feather people? And what is this...Ess-Ayy-Dee that they represent?"
Dallas's eyes widen even more, and he looks like he's about to cry, "S--so much FIRE! Oh, god! FIRE! SCARY! SCARY! BURNS! IT RAGES on--on the 3rd f--f--floor! Oh, god! SAVE HER, someone, fucking save her! NOOOOOO! SAVE HER!!"
"Calm down, Dallas. You're going to fall into a Frenzy if you keep this up. Calm. Down. This isn't good for your mind," Clarice calmly chides.
"You--you don't understand, Clarice. It's already begun and--and there's nothing we can do to stop it!"
Clarice clicks her tongue and dismissively says, "Poppycock, Dallas. Poppycock. Nothing is set in stone. Whatever horrible things you're seeing can still be averted, but you have to work with me. Tell me what you've seen? I'm sure the Prince would appreciate it, too."
Dallas looks like he's about to go nuts. His eyes are darting around like crazy, "Momo and Feather, th--those are the names I saw in my--my vision. No--no good description of how they look, but they ha--have ill intent towards our kind, towards Kindred."
"Towards Kindred, hmm?" Clarice perks up, "Tell me more about this Ess-Ayy-Dee, and then tell me how these Momo and Feather individuals fit into the SAD."
Dallas takes a few moments to gather his scattered composure and then continues, "Ess-Ayy-Dee. SAD. Ah, yes, it--it makes sense. Uh--uh--FBI, I saw FBI clothing and FBI badges. I saw the lettering. Saw. The. Letters. S-A-D. It's not good. It's not good at all. Not good, not good, not good, not gooooooood."
"OK, interesting. Now, tell me, in your own words, how do these Momo and Feather people fit in all this?" Clarice's gaze is intense. She wants some damn answers. And some proper ones at that.
"I saw FIRE and a woman burning alive. I didn't see the woman's face, but--but her screams and her pain, and oh, god, there were steely claws and--and tentacles and machines and wires ta--taking her away as she--she was burning."
"Dallas..."
"Ma--machines. A big, bad, machine was claiming this chick and taking her away, and it--it was so, SO, so painful, but I think she was already g--gone by then. The machine, it, it was taking her apart and putting her back together. Rebuilding her and changing her."
Clarice sighs softly, "Forget about the machine and this burning woman for a moment. Tell me more about Momo and Feather and their connection to the SAD?"
Dallas starts mumbling under his breath. He looks like he's about to have another vampire equivalent of a panic attack.
Then, his head snaps up, and he's wide-eyed, "Feather and Momo...n--not their actual names, but it rhymes close enough. They--they are SAD. I sense them. They're here, Clarice, and I'm afraid. So very afraid."
The Malk Primogen asks, "They're here? In this Domain, right now?"
"Yes. Right now, yes, right now, right now, they are. They are. Momo and Feather. Feather and Momo. I'm scared, teacher. Will--will you protect us Lunatics from them? You're our Primogen, you HAVE TO, right?"
Clarice sharply exhales, "I will do my best, Dallas. Try, Dallas, dig deeper and see if you can give me just a bit more to go on. Names, locations, what they're wearing, how they look, et cetera."
Dallas's hands are shaking, "I, uh--uh, I don't think there's anything else tangible, Ms. Clarice. I'm so sorry, teacher. I was so overwhelmed by what I saw, and I knew that I needed to warn...YOU about it because you're the one who gets shit done on our behalf, y'know?"
Clarice nods, "Yes, you were right in summoning me here, Dallas. The visions can be overwhelming for us Seers. You haven't been with us for that long, so your grasp of your powers and abilities are a bit weak. No worries. You did good, kiddo."
The Malk Primogen's lips curve into a small, reassuring smile, "You did well, Dallas."
Dallas's eyes widen in surprise, "I did well? I did well!"
"Yes--"
"Holy shit! She said I did well, guys! Did you hear that! Guys? Gals? Where are you? C'mon, it's so silent here. Talk to me...someone, anyone? Hello?"
Clarice interjects, "Dallas, trust me when I say that it's not worth it. The voices, the shapes, the sounds, the colors, they will overwhelm a Fledgling like you. Your young Malkavian mind is trying to make sense of things that are beyond rudimentary understanding."
Dallas's lips quiver, "What do I do, then? I can't ignore this shit, Clarice! I get so lonely in here sometimes! The others, they just...they're not responding, and it's making me sad, and then I'm just alone in here with nothing but my thoughts, and it's not fun at all!"
Clarice sighs and responds, "Reach out to a few of them, but be VERY cautious when doing so. You're still a Fledgling, so your mind has yet to adjust to the intricacies of the Madness Network. Be patient and take your time. Don't try forcing it."
"But the voices are so loud! And everything in here is so...weird."
Clarice faintly chuckles, "You'll learn to block it out. We all did. We all have to. Not doing so could very well end with you falling into a Frenzy from whence there is no return."
Dallas mumbles, "The Wassail. I--I'd be turned into a senseless Wight, and you'd have to put me down like--like a mad dog."
"Mmm, yes, I hope that it does not come to that. You have so much potential in our Clan, Dallas."
"I--I know. I just feel so tight in my chest sometimes. It's all the stress, and the visions, and the voices, and, and--and...everything else in this damn city!"
Clarice calmly reminds him, "Don't fret, just remember my advice."
Dallas slowly nods and replies, "OK, OK, OK, I'll do that. I'll do just that. Oh, by the way, how's Arnold?"
Clarice warmly smiles, "My Ghoul fares well. I'll be sure to tell him you said 'hi'. Goodbye, Dallas. I've already overslept by an hour. I'll go to the Prince with your vision and see what he has to say."
"Buh-bye, Ms. Clarice! May the night be kind to you!"
"Likewise."
Soon after, Clarice feels herself waking up, and she's returning to her body. The next thing she sees is a ceiling and a fan lazily spinning around. The sky outside is dark. Her room is carpeted, the wallpaper is a mild shade of green, and a lone window is closed shut.
She slowly gets up from her bed and walks to the bathroom. Her reflection in the mirror is always a sight to behold- corpse-pale and almost ghastly-looking.
The Malkavian Primogen's Haven is a duplex house in a quiet suburban neighborhood. She shares this Haven with her Ghoul, Arnold. She's not bothered too much and mostly keeps to herself, and away from any HOA (Home Owner Association) drama and busybody neighbors.
Clarice looks around the bathroom and sees a toothbrush, toothpaste, a bottle of shampoo, a hairbrush, and other essential toiletries. There are no windows here.
After a quick bath, the Seer dresses up in something comfortable for the evening ahead- a grey wool sweater and a pair of black sweatpants.
The Malk makes her way down the stairs and walks through the hallway. She turns on the light in the kitchen, and the room is illuminated.
Her front door creaks open and her Ghoul enters. He's wearing a simple white t-shirt, a pair of blue jeans, and brown boots.
He beams at his Domitor, "Teacher! You--you're awake! You...um...'overslept' by an hour, so um...I didn't wanna disturb you, y'know in case you woke up and bit me. That sucks when that happens."
Arnold looks to be in his early-20s. His brown hair is short and cropped. His skin is fair and freckly, and he's got a fairly average build.
Clarice fondly pats her Ghoul's shoulder, "That's alright, Arnold. Thank you for respecting my day-rest. As it were, I was contacted by a fellow Seer right before my awakening."
Arnold sits on the sofa and joins his hands together, "Oh, cool. Who was it? Someone I know?"
"Yes, it was Dallas--"
Arnold grins, "Dallas! December 31st, 1999, 12:59 AM. He--he was made into 1 of us at--at that exact time, right?"
Clarice nods approvingly, "Very good. Yes, you're right. He was, quite literally, Embraced at the turn of the millennium!"
Arnold asks, "Millennium is 100, right?"
"No, it's 1000, Arnold."
Arnold suffers from certain developmental difficulties. Even when Clarice was a schoolteacher, the then-young Arnold had a LOT of trouble adjusting to and learning in a standard public-school environment.
He also had a lot of trouble fitting in and interacting with others.
Clarice was 1 of his teachers, and she did what she could, but Arnold clearly had special needs that the school was simply not equipped to handle. What does one expect in Ronald fucking Reagan's America of austerity and war, though?
The 1980s sucked.
Even back then, she felt a deep and genuine connection to her pupil, and she felt that she was destined to help him in whatever way she could. She helped him learn the basics and some more advanced stuff.
But that wasn't enough, nor was it the kind of specialized help he truly needed.
As Arnold grew older, he'd eventually cross paths with his former teacher. She took pity on him and made him her Ghoul. After 3 sips of Blood from her wrist, Arnold was essentially bound to a life of (more or less) eternal servitude to Clarice.
Arnold's a good guy who just got dealt a really shitty hand, and Clarice, for her part, is very protective of her Ghoul.
She cares for him as much as he cares for her. Arnold, from time to time, still calls his Domitor "Teacher" or "Miss Clarice" and it's kinda sweet.
The Malk Primogen and her Ghoul spend some time talking about things. Clarice gives him the basic details of the vision she had.
"I'll go to Prince Antonio with this, and we'll work something out from there."
Arnold asks, "Do you want me to come along?"
Clarice shakes her head and places her cold hand on her Ghoul's shoulder, "No. Prince Antonio is not the kindest or most...cultured of men. Were he to find out about your...differences, he'd surely tease you and be very mean to you."
"How would he be mean to me, Ms. Clarice?"
Clarice weakly smiles, "It's not wise to dwell on that, Arnold. Just...please, stay here. Lock the door and only open it if you see me. You don't want to draw any unwanted attention to yourself, yes?"
"Yes, Miss Clarice," Arnold dutifully repeats, just as if he were back at school.
The Malkavian cracks a tiny smile, but there's pain and sadness behind it as well. She gently pats her Ghoul's shoulder and tells him, "You've done good, Arnold. By the way, how was the toothpaste I bought for you? Was it the right brand?"
Arnold gives a double thumbs-up, "It was perfect! You know me too well, teacher."
Clarice nods approvingly, "I certainly do. We are, after all, bound by Blood. Did the police harass you this time?"
"No. I minded my own business, didn't go too far out, and didn't talk to anybody. They're still out there, with their guns, and they look so mean. I'm kinda scared. Can't you just bite them all and kill them? I--I don't like the police in this city, Ms. Clarice."
Clarice shakes her head, "I'm afraid that would go beyond a breach of the Masquerade. Now, I need to go see Prince Antonio. I'll be back later tonight, and I'll make you your favorite- Pop-Tarts!"
Arnold claps his hands and cheerfully replies, "Pop-Tarts! I love those! Yippeeee!"
"Of course. Lock the door behind me, and don't answer it for anyone BUT me. Yes?"
"OK, OK, OK, I'll do that!"
"Good."
Arnold locks the door and stands by the living-room window. His Domitor puts on a plain scarf and heads off to go and pay the Prince a visit and report on what she's seen and heard.
Which only begs the question, who are Momo and Feather?
Momo = Cuomo and Feather = Heather. Dallas's visions are usually scrambled and vague, but he gets the gist of what he sees (and hears) most of the time.
As Clarice is walking down the footpath, she feels a sharp pain in her head. Dallas, somehow, managed to reach out to her and contact her.
"Hey, yo, Clarice. I--I ordered some pizza. I'm not really too keen on going out tonight, so I figured why not bring the warm body to me, eh? Uh, yeah, bye."
Clarice feels her own Hunger rise. She sighs and looks around for a warm neck to sink her sharp and pointy fangs into.
Her neighborhood has quite a tree cover. The streetlights have already flickered on, and there are some people out and about.
A young man is walking his sausage dog. The poor creature is on a leash and looks absolutely miserable.
Clarice spots a young woman jogging by. She has headphones on and is looking straight ahead. The jogger is dressed in tight yoga pants, a tank top, and an open track jacket.
Her heart is beating loudly and strongly, and her blood is pumping vigorously. The Malk can feel the blood from where she's standing.
Clarice's fangs extend and she quietly follows the young woman. The jogger's neck is slender and bare, ready for the biting.
The jogger stops for a breather, the sounds leaking out from her headphones are quite loud.
Clarice silently sneaks up behind the mortal and quickly grabs her. Her sharp fangs sink into the soft, warm flesh of the young woman's throat.
Blood, lifeforce itself, flows out of the poor lass and into the ravenous mouth of a hungry Seer.
The Malkavian Primogen only takes what she needs. After a few more euphorically sanguine seconds, she releases the poor woman from her tight grip.
The mortal is barely able to stand and crumples to the ground. She's got a blank, vacant stare on her face. Clarice licks the wound shut and goes on her merry way.
Her Beast has been quieted...for tonight, at least.
The jogger chick might or might not remember this, but what's done is done. She eventually staggers onto her feet and runs back to her apartment, never to jog down this street again.
Elsewhere...
Before skipping town, Burt dropped by Diego's and Marisol's Haven and left a note for his Childe.
Markham is in the living room, fully dressed, showered, and ready for the night ahead. He is sitting on a sofa and reading through his Sire's note. The handwriting is quite something, alright.
It very much feels like 1 of them old letters from the Civil War era, where the handwriting is like something one would see in a museum of some sort.
After squinting and struggling to decipher his Sire's scrawling, Markham manages to read and comprehend what is written.
The Baali rockstar gives the usual advice: keep your Humanity high and your Beast in check, stay out of trouble, don't get involved with the politicking nonsense of the Ivory Tower, and don't break the Masquerade.
The letter ends: "Be good to those 2 Ferals who've given you a place to stay. And remember, kiddo: survival's the game we all play. But don't get complacent. Stay on your toes and don't lose sight of what truly matters on nights like these. It was good catching up with you again."
Markham puts the note aside and rests his head in his hands.
Marisol pecks Diego on his lips and heads off to work. She's used to finding fresh blood on the way. Diego sees his girlfriend off and closes the front door.
Diego and Markham have some time to chat.
The Gangrel throws himself on the sofa with a grunt and looks at his Baali friend, "So, hermano, what'd that letter say? That handwriting, whoa, it's like doctor's handwriting."
Markham chuckles and folds the note, "Burt says to 'be good' and 'stay out of trouble'. Oh, and not to get involved with the politicking bullshit of the Camarilla; can't say I disagree with him."
The Feral rubs his hands together, "So, what's tonight's plan?"
Markham adjusts the collar of his plain dress shirt, "I thought I'd catch up with...someone."
"Oh? So, you and that Rhonda chica got along quite well last night, eh?"
"Mm-hmm. She's a decent woman, Diego. I feel reminded of someone when I'm around her. Reminded of a person I can't forget. A person I will NEVER forget."
Diego slowly nods and dusts his cargo pants, "Well, you just tell me where it is you wanna go and I'll drop you off there."
"You know, Diego, I can always rent a car or flag down a taxi--"
"Nuh-uh. Nope. As long you're under our roof, I'm taking good care of you. Remember, a vato in distress is a vato we gotta help. You're no exception, homes."
Markham smirks a bit, "Well, that's kind of you, Diego, thank you. Really, I mean it. I need to make a few phone calls before we head out for tonight."
Diego stares off into the distance and ruminates out loud, "Man, I can't believe that your Sire's gone now. I'm gonna miss that Iggy Pop looking Gringo, haha! He was a real one, y'know? Seen a lotta shit. He knew what was up, that's for sure."
"Yeah, he sure did. Hm. I'll be a few minutes. I'm thinking about calling a couple of people and asking around."
Diego nods, "Sure, hermano, no problem. Take your time."
Markham takes a few moments to reflect. He can't help but wonder just how much longer he'll stay in this city. After being stonewalled by LDJ last night, he's not entirely sure how much longer this investigation will drag on for.
He also can't shake the feeling that something terrible is about to happen.
His Beast stirs within him, as does something darker and more sinister. It's a familiar(ish) sensation to the Baali Neonate.
Markham shakes his head and makes a few calls. He calls up his boss at the SEC, briefs him on the situation so far, and asks for any further advice on how to proceed.
Clifford responds with the same advice: just get it done.
After that, Markham calls up his Touchstone, Jamie. It goes straight to her voicemail, "You've reached the cellphone number of Jamie Pollux, the one and only, haha! Please leave a message AFTER the beeping beep bop boop and I'll get back to ya!"
Markham waits for the beeping bop boop and speaks, "Hey, uh, Jamie. It's me. Markham. Just checking up on you and seeing how you're doing. Hope everything's alright. Call me back whenever you get this and...stay safe out there, OK? Bye."
The Baali blows a raspberry and pulls out the card that Diana had given him last night. Her number is hastily scrawled on the back of the card. Markham dials the number and waits for a response.
Diana's voice answers, tired and weary, "Hello, this is Diana Moskowitz. Who's this?"
Markham smiles a bit, "Uh--hi, Diana, this is...uh...Markham. Reed. We bumped into each other last night. I hope I'm not, y'know, bothering you, or anything."
Diana loudly yawns, "No, no, it's alright. I was just...napping in my van after a cleanup job. So, what's up, Markham? You wanna um...grab a coffee or something? I could REALLY use a large, LARGE cup of wake-me-the-fuck-up-and-keep-me-awake juice right about now."
"Uh, sure, that sounds good. Do you mind if I ask a few questions?"
Diana sighs, "I've been fielding questions from creeps all day, and I'm not exactly in the mood to talk shop, so...ah, what is it?"
"You...still remember me?"
Diana sourly chuckles, "'Course I do! It's like you haven't changed since the day my dad had you watch over me, y'know? Or maybe I really need an eye checkup, heh. Anyway, you're one of the better ones. You're not an asshole, at least. I hope so."
"Oh, yeah, thanks, Diana. So, how is your dad doing?"
Diana bitterly groans, "Uch. He refuses to accept that I'm a woman now. Every time I try to call him up to say 'hi' or whatever, he curses me out and yells about how I'll 'never be a REAL woman' and how he 'can't believe he raised such a disgrace to the Moskowitz family name' and--and it--"
Her voice cracks and she pauses for a moment before continuing, "--And blah blah blah. It's all a bunch of bullshit, Markham. It's just a bunch of bullshit. My family's full of assholes. I'm sick of their shit, anyway."
"I'm sorry, truly, to hear that."
"Yeah, well, seeing you after all these years has kinda brought back a lot of memories, y'know. Not ALL bad ones, thankfully. We should catch up for some coffee, as--as long as you're paying. If that's OK with you?"
Markham plainly replies, "Sure. You know any good places around here?"
"Yeah, there's this Jersey Mike's knockoff on 10th Avenue called 'Uncle Steve's!'"
"Uh...OK? I'll meet you over there in a few. I have to take care of something, first."
"Sounds good. See ya then. Don't keep a lady waiting, yeah?"
Markham puts his Motorola flip phone away and joins Diego, who is still staring off into the distance, lost in his own thoughts.
Diego inquires, "Who was that?"
Markham dryly answers, "Someone from my past. I need to make sure that she doesn't get mixed up in any of this. The last thing I need is more complications."
Diego shakes his head and rises to his feet, "Yeah, less complications is the last thing any of us need right now. Let's go, hermano. I know a spot we can score some blood. Remember, no killing nobody. We don't need that shit on our consciences, right?"
The Demon nods in agreement, "Of course, always." He puts on his black trenchcoat and climbs into the Gangrel's pickup truck.
The night is young, and the hours stretch out ahead. Traffic is quite dense, and things move at a snail's pace. Diego idly hums and waits for a gap in the traffic.
Markham, meanwhile, thinks of the past few nights since his arrival in Flimont City. A lot has happened, and that's putting it mildly!
The Baali pulls out his flip phone and dials LDJ's phone number. It rings and rings until eventually, someone answers.
"Luciano speaking. Who's this?"
"Mr. Donovan, it's me. Markham Reed. I'm with the SEC and I was wondering if we could talk. I won't take up much of your time."
The phone is on speaker, and Gordon Pym is standing right next to LDJ. The former silently motions for the latter to keep talking.
Luciano clears his throat, "SEC, huh? OK, OK. What do you want?"
Markham remains as polite as ever, even after all the BS he's been put through, "I wanted to ask you a few questions, Mr. Donovan. There are some discrepancies in your financials that I'd like to speak to you and your associate about. Could we meet up sometime soon?"
Gordon silently gestures to LDJ, who rolls his eyes and grumbles, "Fine. Yeah, sure, why not? Tomorrow night, at 11:30. There's a parking lot a few...miles away from my joint. I'll um...have someone pick you up and bring you to me. We'll have ourselves a good, honest talk. That sound OK?"
Markham frowns a little, but he accepts, "Sure. That's great. Thanks, Mr. Donovan."
"Yeah, no problem. You know Hugo Street? Yeah, the parking lot's just right off the corner of Hugo and 7th. I'll have someone waiting for you over there."
"I'll keep an eye out. Thank you for your cooperation. I look forward to our discussion. And thank you for not abruptly hanging up on me this time."
Luciano stifles a scoff, "Heh, yeah. No problem. See ya."
Markham hangs up and turns to Diego, who is still driving.
The Feral snickers, "Man, you really gotta be wearing them kid gloves when dealing with those spoilt rich folk, huh? So, what did that cabrn (ES: bastard) say? Did he play the fool again or is he finally down for a talk?"
"We're meeting up tomorrow night. We'll have a nice, honest talk. All of this is going to come to an end, and I'll have a better idea on how to proceed with my investigation."
"Hah! It's about damn time. Man, you've only been here for a few nights, and you've already seen the worst of it, huh?"
"Mm-hmm. Maybe you and Marisol should really consider that move to Santa Fe or New Jersey or...anywhere but here, Diego. Anyway, it's not my place to tell you what to do. Just...there's something better out there, Diego. For the both of you."
Diego shakes his head and lets out a deep sigh, "I know, homes, I know. But we still got a lotta ties here, y'know? It's not just the house, it's the other Gangrel here. They're like mi familia. I'm not gonna just drop 'em and zoom off into the night."
He stops at a red light and wiggles around in his seat, "Besides, my girlfriend has her job going on, and I can't just tell her to...drop that, y'know? It sucks, but it's stable and enough for most of our immediate needs."
Markham's brow furrows and he nods, "Yeah. The stability is something you both need. Starting over in a different place wouldn't be easy, especially for us Kindred. The paperwork alone would raise so many red flags. Not to mention all the moving expenses."
"Oh, don't get me started on the moving, haha! You got that right, ese. Shit's not easy. We're Gangrel, not Ravnos. We can't just up and move on a moment's notice!"
"I've done this before. Moving's hard enough when you're just a mortal, but now..." the Baali trails off and stares at the numerous cars and trucks on the road.
Diego turns up the rap music blaring from his radio, "We gotta do what we gotta do to survive, y'know?" he drums his fingers on the steering wheel and drives on.
After a few moments of slowly wading through the traffic, the Outlander asks, "So, what's on your mind, homes?"
Meanwhile...
Gordon has placed a phone call to Mr. Strickland. The latter answers, "Yes?"
The Pym Reaper coughs profusely and speaks, "It's me. Reed will be at the parking lot right off the corner of Hugo and 7th. 11:30 PM."
"Splendid, Mr. Pym. Splendid. That cough of yours sounds nasty. Get it looked at. Goodnight."
Gordon gruffly replies, "Hmph. Goodnight." He hangs up and looks at his client, who's standing there with expecting eyes.
LDJ smugly smiles and pats Gordon on the shoulder, "Well done! Well fuckin' done!"
He walks over to Paul and claps him on the back, "See? Our own Pym Reaper, reaping shit. It's just like I said, Paul- we're smart, we're rich, we're powerful, and we're the ones in full control."
Paul nervously smiles as sweat drips down his face, "Yeah, yeah, I guess you're right, Luciano. I guess you're right. I just uh...hope that the hit is successful this time."
LDJ arrogantly chuckles, "Of course I was! I'm always right! And, yeah, it's in the bag. That fuckin' government nobody is gonna walk into that parking lot and be wheeled out in a body bag. Simple as that."
Gordon quietly stands there, his face unreadable. He's hoping that Mr. Strickland's assassin/soldier can actually pull it off, unlike last time.
Heh.
It isn't long before Markham and Diego are at a fairly busy street. A few cars and trucks are parked on either side of the road. There are a few people walking along the sidewalk.
The air is thick with the smell of gasoline, car exhaust, and cigarette smoke. A few people are smoking outside of a bar.
Diego parks his pickup and points in a direction, "10th Avenue's that way. That's where that joint of yours is." He pats his clothes and locks the doors. Markham follows him.
The 2 Kindred stroll down the street, keeping their heads down and avoiding eye contact.
Both vampires go through the usual rigmarole of stalking, biting, feeding (no draining!), licking, and walking away. It's all very routine for both of them by now.
Diego casually stretches and wipes his mouth, "Ahh, man, that hit the spot. So, you OK here by yourself?"
Markham can feel his inner Beast has been satisfied for now, "Yeah, I'll be fine. Thanks, Diego. I'll see you later tonight." He pulls out his flip phone and checks the time.
The Baali looks around and sees scores of people going about their existences, moving to and fro, oblivious to the fact that they share the world with what are essentially bloodsucking creatures of the dark night.
He wonders if these people have any idea of the world of darkness bubbling right under them. Tomorrow, if the existence of vampires were proven, would they even care?
They'd be more worried about the things that actually matter, like paying the bills, school fees, rent, mortgages, taxes, and so on. Those are the things that many a mortal concern themselves with.
The mundane, ordinarily, everyday concerns of those that draw breath. Even if vamps, werewolves, and other such supernatural entities were proven to exist, they'd be considered "meh, whatever" compared to the more pressing matters of life.
And Unlife.
Even the undead have jobs to work at, bills to pay, and groceries to buy. The same old, same old. Markham can't help but wonder how long this city can go on like this?
He spots a few cops making arrests. He even observes a few others taking bribes from men in fancy suits.
The Baali's thoughts drift back to his investigation. It's been slow-going, but he's getting somewhere. Hopefully. Maybe. He hopes so. This is his chance to make sure that people in this city play fair and by the same set of rules as everybody else.
A tall order in the city of greed and lucre, but he's got to try.
Uncle Steve's! looks like it always has, albeit shinier. The parking lot is packed with vehicles. There are a few pedestrians milling about nearby.
Diana's van is parked out front and Markham slowly walks towards it. The Baali spots Diana counting some coins, meticulously checking each piece, and hoping that she has enough.
She looks up, sees Markham, and smiles, "There you are! You're kinda late, y'know."
"Oh, sorry about that, Diana. So, coffee, right? I already...ate."
Diana's eyebrows shoot up for a moment and she remarks, "Wow, early eater, huh? Sure, OK. You don't mind paying for my drink, do you?"
The Baali chuckles and replies, "Nope, not at all. Is everything alright with you? You look...worn out." He opens the door and the 2 enter the eating establishment.
There are quite a few patrons and staff here and there.
Diana softly sighs. Her eyes are baggy, and her posture is slumped, "I've been doing a lot of...work lately, y'know. It's a tough gig for 1 gal, but it pays, and I need the cash. What's new with you?"
"Same old, same old."
Diana asks for a large cup of coffee, but before doing so, she turns to Markham and asks yet again, "Are you SURE you're OK with paying for my drink? You're uh...not getting anything? The subs are totally to die for."
Markham smiles a little, "Yeah, I'm sure. You can't go wrong with coffee. I'll pay, don't worry."
Diana sincerely smiles at him, but there's so much brokenness and weariness behind her smile. She's clearly going through a lot.
They both take a seat near a quiet, but well-lit area of the eatery. Diana takes off her cap, revealing her stringy and unwashed hair, and sinks into the booth.
She places her cap on the seat and rests her chin on her hands.
Markham begins the conversation, "So, how are you doing, Diana?"
Diana blows a raspberry and trills her lips, "Eh, I've been better, y'know? I mean, you saw me last night, right? I was tired as shit then and I'm tired as shit now. I can barely stand on my feet sometimes."
"I'm sorry to hear that. Um...is it work? If it is, why not take a break and rest for a while?"
Diana quietly chuckles, "Tch. Take a break. Oh, sure. Wonderful idea, haha! My boss is an asshole, Markham. Like capital-A, grade-A asshole."
"Oh?"
She bitterly continues, "Mike Winters is his name. That's the fakest name I've ever heard, and he's always looking over my shoulder and giving me these sideways glances. God, it pisses me off so much."
"You think he's up to something no good? What?"
Diana's coffee arrives and she thanks the server. The coffee cup is tall and steam rises from it. She douses some creamer and sugar into it and stirs.
"Something's fishy, alright. That fuckin' guy has always given me the creeps. You know that he recently bought and imported a nasty-looking Dalmatian."
Markham skeptically side-eyes the mortal, "And that's suspicious how...?"
Diana angrily slams her fists onto the table and hisses, "Because that slimy son of a bitch is always droning on about how he's struggling and can't afford to pay his employees. YET, he's able to afford an imported, freakin' pet?! Fucking asshole."
The Baali raises his hands in mock surrender and backs off a bit, "OK, OK, calm down. Easy. Take it easy."
Diana's (justified) rage subsides and she weakly smiles. She mutters, "I'm--I'm so sorry, Markham. It's just not been easy these past few years."
Markham presses his lips into a thin line and replies, "It's OK. I understand."
Diana sips her coffee, and it feels hot against her parched tongue. She savors the warm feeling. She's not really in the mood for a happy chat. She's simply not.
Markham asks, "So, what else are you up to these days? How's your uh...thing going?" he gets a tad bit nervous when bringing that last part up.
Diana stirs her coffee some more and shrugs, "Ah, just going with the motions, Markham. Being a professional cleaner is my whole 'thing' now. Everything else just fades in the distance. I've got the whole, 'trying-to-keep-a-roof-over-my-head' thing to deal with, y'know?"
"Oh?"
"Yeah. I'm behind on my rent and my landlord, like my 'lovely' boss, is a slimy greaseball. He's just, ugh..." the woman's face contorts into a tight grimace and she spits out, "I hate his fucking guts SO MUCH. And he's such a pervy creep! You wouldn't believe what he asked me to do."
She slumps into the booth and lets out a deep sigh.
Markham looks at her with pity in his eyes and asks, "What did he make you do?"
"My landlord wanted to have sex with me. Said he was into quote-unquote 'trannies like you' and wanted to 'see how hairy the mound under those overalls was'."
Markham frowns, "Jesus Christ. That's sexual harassment. You should've gone to the authorities--"
She takes another sip of coffee and stares off into space, "Nah. They'd never even believe me, a transgender woman, over some dumbass landlord. Tch."
"Well, still, he shouldn't have put you in that position."
"What am I gonna do, huh? Leave my crappy place? Even if I did, I couldn't live out my fucking van. The bossman explicitly forbids that kinda stuff, heh. So, I'm...stuck, Markham."
The vampire leans back into his seat and looks at the mortal. He feels a tight, sinking feeling in his chest.
Diana, in her misery, looks up and sees Markham's conflicted and sympathetic expression, "I'm...sorry. I know it's gloomy as hell, but I dunno...I feel so easy around you. I dunno why that is."
Mr. Reed leans forward and puts his extremely cold hand on Diana's hand. She winces and pulls her hand away.
"I'm here to listen, Diana."
She smiles a bit and squeezes his cold hand, "Whoa, you just step out of a morgue or something? Haha! Anyway, thanks, Markham. It's not every day that you get to talk to someone about--about the things that matter. The things that really matter, y'know?"
He nods, "Yeah, I know."
She pours more creamer and sugar into her cup and slowly drinks from it.
After a while, Diana narrows her eyes and stares at Markham's face. She inquires, "Wow, when I last saw you, you looked almost the same, y'know? You must have 1 helluva skincare routine, haha!"
Yep, that's totes what it is!
The vampire smiles and responds, "Ah, heh. It's nothing fancy, Diana."
She slyly smirks, "I can't afford anything too fancy, but I can take care of myself just fine, y'know? You know what the funny thing is?"
"What?"
Diana sniffs and her eyes well up with tears, "I--I have a degree in Classical History, Markham, but this fucking city's got no room for that kind of stuff. It's a real bummer, and I just, like, wanna give up sometimes."
Her voice shakes, "This city's got no room for someone like me, and it's driving me up the wall."
Markham slowly nods, "Hmm, yeah. This place is the kinda place that doesn't respect education as much as it does money, right?"
"Bingo. I've cleaned the houses and offices of so many rich trust fund brats, nepo babies, and the other wealthy scum of the city. I've seen them, y'know. Their spoiled, rotten, self-indulgent, rich-kid BS. It's a real goddamn nightmare."
"What have you seen?"
Diana snorts and wipes her mouth, "Just today, actually, I had to clean cum off places that cum isn't supposed to go. I--I--I still dunno how it winded up in a fancy toaster."
"Oh. Yikes. Right."
"Yeah. So, anyway, like I said, I have a degree in Classical History. It's what I studied and it's what I'm good at, but this is what I have to do to live."
"Yeah. Yeah."
"I--I'm so glad that you're here, Markham. It's so strange, but I feel like I can trust you. Sure, you look the same after all these years, but I FEEL at ease when I'm with you. Wh--why is that?"
Markham has nothing to say. He just silently sits there and smiles at the professional cleaner. It's a tight, but reassuring smile.
She can never know his true nature as a vampire, but Markham is not about to take drastic measures to silence her. He's here to chat, and so is she.
She finishes her cup of coffee and looks out the window, "I--I feel like I can trust you, and it's so weird. Like a--the French folk around here call it a um..."
The Baali interrupts her, "Je ne sais quoi?"
Diana's eyes light up, and she snaps her fingers, "Yeah, that's it! It's like, the uh...the--the inexplicable sensation of feeling safe and secure in the company of a stranger. Well, you're not, like, a total stranger to me, but eh."
Markham equably tells her, "I'm glad I can make you feel that way, Diana."
"It's really odd, y'know? You're sorta...there, and...it's like I can't stop myself from telling you all my little stories and things that I don't normally share with just anyone...and their dog."
From there, Ms. Moskowitz goes on to talk about her experiences as a transgender woman in Y2K America, her academic pursuits, her interests and hobbies, and so on.
However, most of it always comes back to her current economic woes and her problems with her asshole of a boss, her slimy landlord, and so on.
Markham quietly listens to her stories and doesn't utter a word. He can see the tears of pain and uncertainty flowing from her eyes.
At least she has someone to vent to, he thinks.
Markham does try his best to comfort her, but nothing seems to be working. She just looks sad, broken, and very, very lonely. She ekes out an existence in this unkind city where the strong prey upon the weak, the predatory prey upon the gullible, and the powerful prey upon the powerless.
A corrupt place where the only law is the law of the jungle. Rampant and unrestrained financial speculation and shit like that keeps the wheels of this damn city spinning (at least for the rich).
The socio-physical infrastructure has been crumbling thanks to decades of malicious neglect and outright indifference.
It's become so car centric, that city planners throw up their hands and simply state, "Just add 1 more lane- that'll fix the problem."
And the result is mounting pedestrian fatalities, bigger cars clogging up the roads, and general contempt for the poor, the disabled, the sick, and the homeless.
And, of course, there are also Kindred who live off everyone's blood in this city, but some (more so than others) are picky biters.
It's a terrible, terrible place to live in. A place where the poor, the vulnerable, and the downtrodden are ground down and exploited. A city of blood, tears, and dust.
The conversation between Mr. Reed and Diana goes on for a good while. Diana does a lot of the talking whilst the Baali does (nearly) all of the listening, occasionally responding with the usual nod, "Hmm," or a "That sounds rough, Diana. I'm sorry to hear that."
Diana orders herself another cup of joe (to take). Markham gladly pays for it. She eventually decides to order a small slice of key lime pie.
The mortal finally grabs her order and tells the bloodsucker, "Well, that was...a nice talk. If I could afford a shrink, I would, but you're the next best thing, heh. And thank you. This was...oddly good. I feel a little better, and I appreciate you taking the time."
She shakes his cold hand and smiles, "Thanks for everything."
Markham smiles back, "It's the least I can do, Diana. Take care."
Diana rolls her eyes and laughs, "Oh, I got another gig. Some big-ass mansion that I'm expected to clean all by my lonesome because my boss is a corner-cutting shit stain."
"Damn."
She puts her cap on her head and says, "Yup. I'll see you around, Markham. Have a great rest of the night. And we should stay in touch, OK?"
Markham plainly nods, "Of course, Diana. Goodnight and take care."
Diana sighs and waves him goodbye, "Yeah, yeah. Byeee!"
Markham watches her as she saunters away back to her van, to go and clean a mansion, and do a bunch of other shit that has to get done in this hellhole of a city.
It's 11:48 PM. The Baali quietly steps out of the eatery and takes a moment to reflect on the events that have (thus far) unfolded tonight.
A part of him feels that tomorrow's RV in that parking lot is a goddamned trap, but he tells himself, "They...they're not stupid enough to try again, are they?"
Oh, Markham.
Either way, the only way for the SEC Enforcement Investigator to get closer to the truth is to get in the thick of the game and play it.
Maybe it's time to play the game by a...different set of rules?
We shall see.
Interestingly enough, the place that Diana Moskowitz is supposed to clean tonight is none other than a dormant mansion that belongs to Prince Antonio Black himself.
He purchased it from 1 of his fellow Ventrue decades ago. Since then, it's just been sitting around and gathering tons of dust, cobwebs, and the occasional rough sleeper with nowhere else to lay their weary head.
Diana has been ordered by her boss to do a job there, and the last thing she wants to do is disappoint him or run afoul of such an "entrepreneurial" man.
Mike Winters apparently won some kind of "American Businessman Of The Year" award at some conference in Chicago last year. He was lauded for his ingenuity, business acumen, and so on.
Anyway, it's time for her to clean this goddamn place and see just what's in these rooms.
Prince Antonio himself is waiting outside this almost-rundown (but not quite) mansion. The overgrowth has been cleared out. The columns are cracked, and the bricks are crumbling.
Diana is led by 2 tall, muscular people who wear white trench coats and bowler hats. She can sense something off emanating from them, but she doesn't know exactly what.
The poor lass has a few days of cleaning supplies with her. As she walks, she makes a mental note to buy more, because Mike expects his employees to buy their own shit, clean the vans before returning them to the depot, and so on.
Prince Antonio is dressed in a beige suit and a black button-down shirt. He adjusts his sleeves and has a very self-assured look on his face.
Diana approaches him. She's weighed down by her cleaning supplies- a vacuum cleaner, a mop, some sprays, a few dusters, and so on.
The Prince lifts his chin, "You with Worbo's Professional Cleaning Services?"
Diana puts on a smile, "That I indeed am, sir. Name's Diana." She politely extends her hand, but the Prince refuses to shake it.
He clicks his tongue, "Your boss is Mike Winters, right?"
"Yeah, sure. What's this about, sir?"
The Prince smirks, "You know what kind of client I am, correct?"
"Um...not exactly, no? Mr. Winters just told me to come and clean your...err...place, sir. He doesn't bother giving me the nitty-gritty specifics. Why, is there something wrong, or--?"
"Nah. Just shut up, do your fucking job, don't get wise, don't poke your nose where it doesn't belong, clean this place up, and get the fuck out after you're done. Capeesh?"
Diana is taken aback, and her eyes dart around for a bit, "Yeah, yeah. Got it. I'll be done soon, sir. By the way, it's a nice place. The archi--"
The Blue Blood holds up his hand and tuts, "Ah, ah, ah, ah. Stop it. You're the cleaning lady, not a fuckin' real estate agent. Get in, get on our knees and scrub the floors, the walls, the ceilings, the windows, the toilets, the sinks, and everywhere else."
He moves closer to Diana and warns her, "If I have to come back here, for any fucking reason, I'll see to it that the only thing you're ever cleaning ever again is shit at a home for old folk. You got it?"
Diana gulps nervously and shakily nods, "Y--yeah, OK. Fine. Totes. I'll be in, keep my head down, m--mind my own business, and make this place sparkle."
The Ventrue Prince chuckles, "Yeah, yeah. Now get in there."
Diana walks in, and the Prince is pleased by what he sees. The 2 other people keep a close eye on the mortal.
The Prince whispers to them, "If she gets wise, pop her and dump her. Make sure she doesn't ask too many questions about the blood stains in the bedrooms. Capeesh?"
"You got it, boss."
Prince Antonio lingers around for a while. Diana goes to her van to fetch some more cleaning implements.
As she's returning, she asks, "This is quite a huge place. Will you be tipping or--"
The Ventrue snidely scoffs at her and looks at her with his cold, dead eyes, "The fuck did you just say?"
Diana shakes her head and smiles, "I said, this is a really big place. We usually charge per square inch, and there's usually extra involved--"
He cuts her off, "Hey, stop it! I already paid for it, I ain't paying again. Now, get your ass in there and clean."
She takes a deep breath and enters the rundown mansion, the other 2 following closely behind.
After a few minutes, Diana is ready to go and start her work.
The mansion in question is quite large. White sheets cover most of the furniture still present. There's a piano in 1 of the rooms. The ceiling is high, and the chandelier is cracked and dusty.
Cobwebs and creepy-crawly insects skitter about. The granite flooring has aged rather poorly over the years. The rooms are large and spacious. It was, undoubtedly, quite the mansion back in its heyday.
This very mansion is the place where Prince Antonio Black was given Praxis over Flimont City 100 years ago. The Ventrue (mainly them) and the other Clans had gathered here for a small soire of sorts.
As midnight approached, the Prince's Sire gifted his Childe with Praxis over the Domain. This was during the early 1900s, and Flimont City was still a tiny, sleepy, dull, and rather insignificant place back then.
A lot of backdoor dealings in smoke-filled rooms went into ensuring that Antonio Black would be crowned the rightful and sole ruler of the Domain.
It's been quite a ride since then.
Diana takes a few deep breaths and goes about her business. For a single person, there sure is a LOT of ground to cover. In between scrubbing tough grime off of the walls, she stops for the occasional breather.
She stops to take a few small bites from her key lime pie, to go and pee, to wash her face, and to stretch her aching back.
Diana groans as she's hunched over and scrubbing the floor. Her joints and muscles are screaming at her, but she's almost done.
After a while, she stops for a rest. She's tired, hungry, and sore all over.
The mansion is full of secrets. Diana, for her part, is way too exhausted and beaten down to probe further. She just wants to go home, sleep, and forget about the crappy day she had.
The blood stains were particularly tough to get rid of. Diana does raise her eyebrows at this, but when she asks, she's quickly shut down and told to go back to work by those 2 bowler hat people.
She even spots a few piles of ashes in some of the rooms, but when she points that out, she's met with more hostility.
Diana shrugs and returns to her backbreaking work. The last thing she needs is to get some kind of an infraction and be outta a job when rent is already overdue.
So, she dismisses anything suspicious and odd-looking, keeps her thoughts to herself, and diligently works.
Finally, Diana is finished with her task. She dusts her hands and checks the nearby grandfather clock.
It's frozen, with the large hand having a seizure at 10. The little hand is on the 2, but it's been stuck on that for who-knows-how-long.
She frowns. There's no time to dwell on this. She's beat. Her legs are sore, and her lower back is absolutely killing her.
All she wants, right now, is to throw herself on her bed and fall asleep. She's covered in sweat, dust, grime, and other unspeakable crap.
Diana turns her vacuum cleaner on and runs it around the entire mansion. Her boss made it explicitly clear that she was not allowed to leave the premises until she had THOROUGHLY cleaned the place.
After she's done, she walks through the whole place, her feet barely touching the ground. Her heart is beating faster than usual and she's panting like crazy.
Diana takes those 2 people throughout the mansion and shows them her handiwork. Once done, they hand her a thin envelope and tell her to scram.
She looks inside the envelope and grumbles, "Fuck me! How stingy!"
She's practically fuming, but those 2 have made it abundantly clear that that's all she's getting as way of a "tip".
Miss Moskowitz mumbles some more and angrily storms out of the house. She throws her cleaning supplies in the back of the van, gets in the driver's seat, and viciously slams the door.
She slams the steering wheel and screams, "GOD FUCKING DAMN IT! What the hell is WRONG with this world, huh?! Why is it so damn HARD to make a simple goddamned living?!"
Diana screams some more and pounds her fists into the steering wheel. The anger and frustration is boiling over.
After a while, the cleaning lady wipes her face and puts the keys in the ignition. She rests her forehead against the steering wheel and forces herself to calm down.
She closes her eyes, takes a deep breath, and starts the engine. Diana drives out of, tears streaming down her face.
The city has never been so welcoming to anyone except the moneyed and the rapacious.
With the FBI's SAD in town, everyone is on a collision course. What, pray tell, does that mean for the ordinary denizens of this Domain, who are just trying to scrape by and do their best?
It's only a matter of time before they get dragged into the fray, 1 way or another.
Chapter 14: Obfusc
"Her eyes / She's on the dark side / Neutralize (every man in sight) every man in sight" -Massive Attack, Angel (1998)
The day starts anew and the sun begins its slow ascent over the horizon. The air is a wee bit chilly, and the Kindred soon find themselves dragged into the abyssal pull of the day-sleep.
A dark, likely dreamless, slumber that persists for as long as the sun is up in the sky.
The day is full of the usual activity. Mortals go about their thang. Rusty school buses chug along the streets. Crowds of people stroll down the sidewalks.
The city is alive and well, and all the while, the city's immortal nocturnal predators are in the grip of their daylight rest.
Large clumps of day-traders stare at an endless stream of numbers running across the large screens at the Flimont City Stock Exchange.
The FCSE is a large and garish building at the heart of the city's financial district. It closely resembles the New York Stock Exchange, down to its imposing architecture and sheer size.
The FCSE is a behemoth of a structure, and it looms over the city, like a great, titanic stone gargoyle.
Throngs and throngs of finance "bro" types are chaotically buzzing about the place. The febrile atmosphere is charged with anticipation, excitement, and a certain degree of danger.
Some people have 2 phones pressed against their ears. They frantically scream and bark orders at other people. Others have their arms folded and are furiously shaking their heads.
Everyone is talking at once, but nobody seems to be listening.
And the stock market keeps going up, up, and up, and up, and up. Green lines shoot up, and a contingent of guys cheer on like absolute maniacs.
They're the ones who have recently bet a LOT of money on this particular investment, and their celebration is proof enough that they're in it to fucking win it.
A few others are watching the stock ticker. Some red numbers are displayed, followed by groans and folders being thrown onto the shiny ground.
The people in these chairs are not exactly happy, but they're not fully angry either. They just want to know if the investment that they made was the right one.
So far, so good.
Lines go up and down, but when they go up, the whooping and cheering is as loud as a few gunshots in a closed space. Loud enough to overwhelm the senses and make one go deaf.
When the numbers go down, the grumblings are louder. There's a lot riding on...whatever the hell all of this is.
Celebratory bottles of expensive-ass champagne are cracked open when line goes up. Cocaine is not-so-discreetly snorted when the line seems to be going down.
Fists are shaken and hands are pumped in the air. A lot of people are on the edge of their seats, figuratively (and literally) speaking.
Line go up is a religion in Flimont City. These busters have True Faith in the power of money, credit, the market, and all that financial mumbo-jumbo.
They're on a mission to make their fortunes, and they're willing to do whatever it takes. They're willing to fuck, cheat, lie, steal, and so on.
Yes, even murder is not off their list of options, should it actually come down to that. Whether it's a rival or someone who stands in their way, these financial fiends are willing to kill if necessary.
And business for the likes of Mr. Strickland has never been better.
That's murder on a relatively small scale. Why stop there? They're even willing to sacrifice entire neighborhoods, towns, and essential institutions, if it means their personal wealth increases by another fucking inch. That's social murder.
They're not here to play nice, fair, and square. They're here to play dirty. Filthy, even.
Worst part is, everything they're doing is some shade of totally legal and above-board. So, these peeps are not at all worried about getting caught with their pants down (abstractly or literally).
In fact, the thought of getting caught is so far from their minds, that they wouldn't even blink an eye even if someone DID catch them red-handed.
Luciano Donovan Junior, smug little prick that he is, is in the midst of all this madness. To him, the FCSE is like a 2nd home. He practically grew up here!
Paul Cho is in a corner, futzing with the dials and switches, watching the screen as the numbers go up and up and up. He's spinning in his chair and has a look of anticipation plastered on his sweaty face.
The 2 guys are dressed in their finest, tailor-made suits. Luciano's is blue while Paul's is deep black.
There are so many people lolling about around here. The air is thick with greed and unbridled avarice.
It's not the kind of atmosphere that most would like to be in, but the 2 guys have chosen this path. They, after all, have something (someone) that the others around them don't have.
A secret weapon, a golden goose.
A golden goose who sure does lay them golden eggs!
Mauve Lilac was with him last night, guiding him through the crazily messy process behind her "numbers game", telling Luciano by how much percentage points the market would fall and rise today.
Armed with that forbidden foreknowledge (known to no other), LDJ is here to increase his fortunes to new, never before seen heights.
He's currently betting against something that literally everyone else is betting in favor of. Paul is unsure how this is gonna pan out. He bites his thumb and sweat trickles down his forehead. He's nervous as hell.
And in need of a lil happy dust.
But he trusts his best pal. The guy knows what he's doing. Or at least, he hopes so. He really, really hopes so.
Luciano watches the stream of numbers with a cocksure bravado typical of his social milieu. He's confident that he'll win this one. He's got the numbers. He's got the knowledge. He's got the mojo. He's got the juice.
He's got it all.
A few day traders take a good look at LDJ and tell him that he better be prepared to lose a lot of money in the next few minutes. They've seen this before. They know what happens when people try to bet against the market.
"Your dad's gonna be fucking pissed, man. I hope you got a solid place to hide, hahahaha!"
"YEAH! Fort Knox levels of solid!"
They're not hesitant about sugarcoating it. They're not here to coddle anyone. These types are here to make money, and lots of it.
Luciano maintains his smug grin and lifts his chin a little. His lips quiver in anticipation of the sweet, sweet taste of imminent victory. He's got this one in the bag.
Mauve told him the numbers. He trusts her. She hasn't steered him wrong yet. She's been nothing but reliable when it comes to matters of the $$$.
Last night, the Malkavian was a bit erratic and on-edge, but she showed her benefactor a thing or 2 about how she sees the inner workings of the market. How it can be manipulated and guided towards a certain outcome.
How it even can be influenced by a bunch of other factors.
Luciano, clearly impressed, made some mental (and physical) notes and listened intently to Mauve's ramblings. He took them all in and nodded along. He was like a kid listening to a campfire story.
Ms. Lilac went into her relationship with the numbers. She kept looping back to- and extolling- the value of Pi (3.14). She said that's how she does her thing. Everything is connected, and everything is determined by "the numbers."
The Seer claimed that she can calculate Pi to its millionth digit. She also claimed that she can calculate the number of hairs on Luciano's head, the number of seconds between lightning and thunder, and so on.
She even claimed that all of these values (and many more) were to be found within the infinite, non-repetitive value of Pi.
Luciano tuned out for most of it, save for the parts that bring him closer to making more money. He didn't care about her math, her philosophy, or any of that.
He just wanted to know how he could make some mad money. That's all he cared about. The rest, to him, was gibberish.
Luciano mumbles to himself, "Let's hope she comes through. This is a big fucking bet I'm making here. If I lose, dad's gonna come back and fucking kill me...personally." He gulps nervously and wipes his sweaty palms on his pants.
He takes a deep breath and steadies himself.
Paul shakes his head and tuts, "I dunno, man. It--it's too late to pull back now. Are you sure about this?"
Luciano's eyebrows shoot up, and his lips are pressed into a thin line, "We'll see...in the next few seconds, Paul."
Mauve Lilac said that the stock prices for a company called "Manhattan SolTech" would drop by 33.56% today. She claimed that this was a fact, and that it was as certain as the rising of the sun.
Luciano is betting against the market, because everyone else here has made a bet that it would go up by about 40%. Even Jim Cramer is excited about Manhattan SolTech performing well today.
Everyone is putting their money on this particular horse. Everyone except Luciano Donovan Junior. He's betting that it'll do badly. Real fuckin' badly. He's counting on it. He's putting a lot of money on it.
Almost all of his (and Paul Cho's) money, as a matter of fact. If it backfires, well...
So, the young guy is taking a gamble and betting that it will go down by 30%, instead of the hyper-specific 33.56%. Can't have anyone getting too suspicious now, can we?
The streaming numbers begin to slow down. The lines are now at a crawl. Everyone is on the edge of their seats. A few people are holding their breath. Others are biting their nails. A few more are even praying to their gods.
"MST -33.56%" rolls across the screen in big, bold red text, followed by other assortments of texts and numbers. Some green, some red.
The crowd gasps and stares in shock. Luciano lets out a triumphant laugh and throws his arms in the air. Paul sighs in relief and shakes his head.
LDJ climbs onto the table and smugly looks down on the bewildered crowd, "What'd I fuckin' tell ya, huh?"
A few people boo him, while others grumble and shake their heads. The guy who said that Luciano's dad would be pissed is staring at him with a confused expression.
"Pfft. A lucky potshot."
Large swathes of folk have already begun to scramble around, like chickens with their heads cut off. Frantic phone calls are being made, sweaty and over-worked personal assistants bump into each other, and coffee is spilled all over the floor.
That company has gone down by 33.56%. Just like the Malkavian predicted. Luciano has won the bet. He's going to make a LOT of money today.
A LOT of money.
Meanwhile, Manhattan SolTech goes down and makes the "ever-so-tough" decision to lay off about a 100 employees from their "underperforming" divisions. This is done in order to save costs and ensure the company's continued survival.
The usual bullshit reasons.
The news hits the stock market like a freight train. People are not happy. A lot of people are angry and screaming at each other like crazy.
They're accusing each other of being incompetent and greedy. Some blame the market, while others blame the economy. They're pointing fingers at each other, but none of them are pointing fingers at themselves.
Some throw their hands up in resignation and take defeat swigs out of champagne bottles. Others hobble off to the bathrooms for a quick...sniff-sniff of some of the sweet stuff.
"I can't fuckin' believe this guy!"
"Yeah. C'mon, let's hit the gym. I need to blow off some steam."
"Yeah, man. I'm so mad right now, I could punch a hole through a wall. Grrrr! Goddamn Donovan."
"I know, right? Fuckin' sucks! He has that same smug look...just like his dad. Gah!"
Paul, for his part, heads to a discrete corner, pulls out a miny transparent poly baggie of cocaine, and snorts a few lines after chopping them up with his Visa credit card. He's got a big smile on his face, and he's exhaling loudly.
The drug is doing its job. Paul feels better already. He's more confident, energetic, and ready to tackle the day. He's even feeling a little horny.
Luciano, meanwhile, is going around, shaking hands, patting backs, and pointing finger guns at them folk. All the while, he carries himself with a smug, self-assured grin.
The kind of grin that says, "I told you so."
The kind of grin that says, "I'm better than you."
The kinda grin that proudly boasts, "You're all fucking losers, and I'm the only goddamn winner here."
LDJ walks away from the crowd and stands in front of a window. Paul joins him and rubs his nose a few times. He shakes his head repeatedly and growls.
"I can't fuckin' believe it! That was some good shit, man! She--she really came through, huh?! Wow!"
Luciano shrugs, "As far as these schlubs are concerned, we just knew; I had a hunch, and you did some math. We're the smart guys who knew what was gonna happen today."
Paul nods, "Right. Right. You're right. You're absolutely right. Now, more than ever, we HAVE TO keep this whole Mauve thing under wraps."
LDJ continues, "We're the smartest guys in the fuckin' room. You and me, both barrels, take out the whole fuckin' room. And we gotta keep it that way. We gotta keep this streak up."
Paul looks at his friend and nods again, "Yeah. Yeah. You're right. You're a--absolutely right."
Luciano grins and pats his friend on the back, "Of course I am. I'm a Donovan. Donovans are always right."
Paul nods and laughs. He's high as a kite, and he's loving every second of it.
Some gals in fancy pencil skirts shoot LDJ a few suggestive looks as they waltz past him. Luciano gives them a nod and a wink. He's got an ego the size of the moon, and he's ready to get laid.
He wants to celebrate his victory. He wants to revel in it.
By afternoon, most financial press outlets are already drafting their articles along the lines of: "The Man Who Bet Against The MST Tide...And Won" and "Luciano Donovan Junior Wins Big Bet Against Market".
The articles go on to praise the young man for his "bravery" and "sheer audacity".
Calls come pouring in, requesting the usual: interviews, chats, TV appearances, and so on.
All of this attention is making LDJ's head swell. He's eating it all up. He's basking in it. He's enjoying every goddamned millisecond of it.
Meanwhile, the ordinary folks of Flimont City continue to go about their daily lives. They have no idea what's happening at the FCSE.
The news hasn't reached them yet. Not even a peep. But it will soon enough. It always does. All the after-effects of the bonanza will become obvious with all the chaotic late-night parties that have been planned, the mass firings that will occur, and the various other machinations that are being set into motion.
But, for now, many in the city are blissfully unaware of what's going on.
The stock market is still going up and down. Mauve's detailed predictions continue to pan out and play out, just like she said they would.
Luciano agreed, that should Mauve be right (which she always is), to take her to a fancy salon for a full makeover tomorrow night.
She's been living on the streets for so long, and she's been looking rough for quite some time. She needs a little TLC. She would like to be pampered, if only for a short while.
Luciano already invites his usual crowd for a party tonight, but at his place. Paul's running low on cocaine (again), so he and LDJ agree to go to Marco's drug den to buy some tomorrow evening.
"Tonight's a fuckin' party, Paul! We'll get your sugar another time."
The 2 guys hug and pat each other on the back as they make plans for tonight's wild (and very expensive) party. Paul is in charge of procuring the edibles and drinks.
Luciano, meanwhile, hires some really expensive strippers from out of the state to entertain the guests for tonight's shindig. He also orders some "special" entertainment from a discreet escort service.
He wants a bit of variety tonight, a little sauce in that braciole. A little lagniappe, a lil sugar, a little somethin' extra, a little somethin' extra, ya know?
The young man has a lot of money to burn, and he's not afraid to spend it. He's a Donovan, after all. The only (known) son of the controversial stockbroker Luciano Donovan Senior.
Is he finally doing daddy proud?
Well, that depends. LD Senior was always a tough act to follow, and he had his ways. Anyway, a lotta people are gonna get fucked up tonight. And not necessarily in the "fun" way.
The rest of the day passes by without incident. The cops continue to be a menace, rifles hanging out and all that. The usual.
The police chief makes his usual tough guy threats while the State Governor, a Republican, stands by and silently nods. The chief of police boasts about making tons of arrests and seizing "tons" of cocaine worth "millions of dollars".
"We will not rest, we will NOT sleep, until every last criminal element operating in Flimont City has either been put down or locked up!"
Maintaining his hard expression, he continues, "We will not stop until we have made Flimont City safe again! We will not stop until we have brought justice to this city! We will not stop until we have cleaned up this city!"
The police chief is a muscular, middle-aged man. His graying hair is fairly short and he's in his FCPD uniform.
He stares directly into the camera and points his finger at the viewers, "We WILL bring safety back to this city! We WILL restore law and order to this city! We WILL clean up this city! We WILL bring freedom and security to this city!"
He finishes with a stern threat/warning, "If you are a criminal, if you're even THINKING about committing a crime, the FCPD will find you...and we will end you."
His eyes narrow and his voice becomes all gravelly, "We will find you, and we will end you, whoever you are. You will be hunted down, and you will be brought to our unique, all-American brand of justice. Do NOT test us."
Yikes.
The FCPD's own PR department is in overdrive, containing the fallout that results from Mr. Tough Manly Man's menacing words. They're trying to reassure the public that they're doing everything they can (within the bounds) to LEGALLY keep everyone safe.
They're putting out statements that reassure the public that the FCPD operates within the confines of the law and has no record of any wrongdoing whatsoever. No abuses of power going on here!
Haha!
They're trying to show that they're on top of things, that they're winning the "war" against crime. Which, in reality, is almost always a war on the poor and marginalized who have no other choice but to turn to a life of desperation and crime.
The FCPD is trying to paint itself as the good guys, the heroes, the valiant protectors of the city. But they're failing miserably. The public knows the truth. The public ain't stupid!
Either way, everyone is playing their part on this grand stage. Everyone is acting out their role. Everyone is saying what they need to say, doing what they need to do, and so on.
The self-serving politicians, the brutish cops, the pliant media, the greedy speculators, the drug dealers, the sex workers, the homeless, the hungry, the poor, the desperate, the addicted, the hopeless, the lost, the forgotten, the disenfranchised, the angry, the violent, the victims, the survivors, and...
The Kindred, who might be in 1 (or more) of those categories.
Everyone is playing their part. Everyone is doing their thang. Everyone is surviving, cuz survival is the game we all play. Some have it on cruise, and many are barely hanging on.
Some have it easy, many have it real tough. Some have it real good, many have it bad. But they're all just tryna survive. Many are just trying to get by and see another day in F-City, the Sunshine City.
The wheels are turning, the gears are grinding, the cogs are spinning, and the clock is ticking.
Afternoon's hot blaze soon gives way to the aridness of evening. The sun sets, and the night sky begins to fill with a few stars.
The city's lights come on, and the streets begin to fill with people...and cars. Traffic builds up along the usual routes as the 9-to-5ers head home after another long and grueling day at work.
As the sun finally retreats, the Kindred in this part of the world begin to awaken to face yet another night of darkness and uncertainty.
Some of these immortal blood-leeches have nothing to lose, some have everything to lose, and some have even found something (or someone) worth "living" for.
Markham's Unliving body twitches and spasms as a memory from his past haunts his waking mind. He sees a woman, not just any woman.
It's her, his older sister, Daniella Reed. She's smiling and full of life. Like her younger brother, her eyes are gray, but hers are welcoming and warm.
She's wearing something that Markham can't quite see. A little white dog barks in the background and jumps around excitedly.
Daniella laughs and pets the dog, "Oh, I love you too, Snowy! You're such a good boy! Who's a good boy, huh? You are!"
Markham smiles and chuckles. He reaches out to pet the dog, but his hand goes through it. Snowy barks a few more times and bolts across the road.
Daniella giggles and chases after the dog, "Come back here, you little rascal!"
This is a particularly grim memory from when he was still a mortal.
Daniella runs across the road. Markham sees a fast car roaring down the road. It's moving fast, and it's not slowing down.
"DANIELLA! WATCH--"
Daniella turns to look at her brother. In a split second, she is brutally hit by the car and run over. The car's driver doesn't even bother stopping; son of a bitch floors it and drives away.
Markham screams and runs towards his sister. She's lying on the ground, broken and bleeding. She's gasping and wheezing for air. Snowy is whimpering in the background.
"DANIELLA! DANIELLA! NO!"
He tries to hold her in his arms, but she slips through his fingers. Her blood is everywhere.
Markham cradles his sister's dying body in his arms and cries uncontrollably. She smiles weakly and places a hand on his cheek.
"Hos--hospital. Markha--Markham. Hel--help me. I--"
"No. Daniella. It--it's gonna be OK."
The then-mortal Markham looks around and yells out, "HELP! Somebody call a fucking ambulance! HELP US!"
"I...will...alwa--always...love you..."
Daniella closes her eyes. Markham holds his older sister's limp body in his arms and sobs uncontrollably.
"No. No. NO! NOOOOOOOO!"
The Baali immediately jolts awake, drenched in a thin sheen of blood. He sits up and rubs his forehead. His dead heart is pounding, and his hands are shaking uncontrollably.
He lets out a deep breath and shakes his head. He mumbles to himself, "Oh, god. Daniella. Oh god...I'm so sorry. I should've--no, no, it's pointless now. No."
Markham sighs deeply and wipes his face with a nearby towel. He gets up from his hard mattress and heads to the bathroom. He splashes some cold water on his face and stares at his reflection in the mirror.
Pale and gaunt, with sunken cheeks and dark circles under his eyes, Markham looks like death warmed over. He's seen better nights.
The Baali shakes his head and mutters, "I'm sorry, Daniella."
Markham takes a few more deep breaths and tries to calm himself down. He stretches and heads to the for the shower. The warm water cascades down his naked body, washing away the sweat and grime.
He closes his eyes and tilts his head back. The water feels good on his dead skin. He lets out a deep sigh and relaxes. After a few minutes, he steps out of the shower and dries himself off with a towel.
He wraps that same thing around his waist and does his hair in front of the mirror. Markham takes a moment to check his own reflection. He looks good, if a little tired and withdrawn.
His chin-length hair is slicked back, and his cold gray eyes reflect the light from the bathroom. He smiles weakly and nods to himself.
"Tonight's the night. Let's see where this leads."
The Baali leaves the bathroom and prepares to get dressed for tonight's "meeting" with LDJ and P-Money. He picks out a fancy black suit and a green dress shirt. He completes the look with black slip-on shoes and a dark trench coat.
Markham is going for a sleek, somewhat sophisticated look tonight. He wants to look like an Enforcement Investigator for the SEC.
He wants to appear professional and trustworthy. He wants to show that he's a serious player in the game, who ought to be taken seriously and treated with a modicum of respect.
Markham's not sure how the other 2 guys will react to him showing up looking like this, but he figures it'll be fine. They're both young, rich, and spoiled brats, anyway.
1 of whom has, for the 2nd time, put out a hit on him for tonight. The 1st time, it was in that hotel room. The 2nd time, well...that remains to be seen, but Miss Blue, like the guy who tried before her, is gonna meet her demise in a few hours' time.
Speaking of...
The stocky assassin prepares herself for tonight's rather morbid job. It's not her 1st rodeo- far from it, in fact. She's killed before- old people, little kids, men twice her size, and so on.
She's killed them all, and she's done it without remorse or hesitation. She killed them all, and she did it for money. Large sums of money.
Ms. Blue goes over Markham's dossier and studies his picture. She memorizes his face and his features. She also memorizes his height, weight, and approximate age.
She takes note of his current occupation. She makes sure to remember the color of his eyes, the shape of his nose, and the contours of his face, and so on.
Ms. Blue has her sedan parked on a place overlooking the city's skyline. From here, one sees a few planes taking off (or landing) at the airport, the blinking lights of various buildings, and the glow of the many streetlights below.
The stocky assassin takes a moment to enjoy the view. She closes her eyes and inhales deeply. She lets it all out in a smooth and slow manner.
She repeats this a few times until she feels calm and relaxed. She opens her eyes and focuses on the task at hand. She needs to kill Markham Reed, and she needs to do it tonight at 11:30 PM.
Ms. Blue then pops her trunk and checks her weaponry for tonight's deed. She has a pump-action shotgun that she loads up with some extra shells.
Thankfully, this maniac doesn't carry white phosphorous ammunition. That'd spell the end of any vamp unfortunate enough to be blasted, at point-blank range, with those fiery things.
She also has a silenced pistol that she loads up with some extra mags. She has a nasty bowie knife tucked away in her boot.
Ms. Blue is ready to go...
And die tonight. She thinks she's in for a 5-figure payout, but she's not. She's about to find out that she's gonna piss off a Demon.
The stocky assassin climbs into her car and starts the engine. She puts on some music and begins driving towards the intended location of the hit- a parking lot right off the corner of Hugo and 7th.
The parking lot in question is a subterranean structure of colorless concrete and faded yellow lines. It's overly lit and reeks of urine and weed.
Ms. Blue parks her car and steps out. She takes a moment to "tactically" survey the area. There are a many other cars parked in the lot, but no one else seems to be around.
There are a few odd sounds coming from the distance, but nothing too concerning. Ms. Blue shrugs and heads towards the exit, to the nearby coffee shop. She has a meeting with her mark at 11:30 PM, and she's not about to miss it.
Ah, well, there's plenty of time to kill. So, Miss Blue orders a few cups of Americano, reads through some military and gun-nut magazines (that she subscribes to), and waits for the clock to tick closer to the appointed time.
Back to Mr. Reed...
The Baali and his 2 Gangrel hosts are discussing this morning's news, particularly LDJ's massive winnings. That's all that clogs the news because, clearly, there's literally nothing else to talk about, is there?
The crumbling infrastructure, the underfunded public schools, police brutality, poverty, etc?
Marisol repeats herself with a heavy sigh, "These putos are people who were born into millions, and now they turn it into even greater millions by manipulating complicated financial instruments that no one understands. Tch."
From there, the Outlander grabs her things and blandly adds, "I have work. D, take care, OK?"
Diego sympathetically smiles at his girlfriend and gives her a quick thumbs-up as she walks out the front door. A few seconds later, her scooter starts up and she drives away.
The 2 men sit in silence for a while. Diego eventually breaks the silence with a question, "So...what's your plan for tonight, ese? You still on with this buster?"
Markham leans back in his chair and shrugs, "Well, yeah, I'm meeting up with those 2 and hopefully I can get to the bottom of this. You got any plans of your own, Diego?"
The Gangrel, who's dressed in rough work casuals consisting of a baggy t-shirt and a pair of worn-out jeans, frowns and scratches his chin.
He thinks for a moment and shrugs, "Well, I think I might pitch in in getting the community center looking more like a community center and less like a warehouse that got slammed by a tornado. Yeah, I'll help out there."
Markham's eyes go back to the news playing on the TV. Luciano has appeared, and he's looking all shades of suave and overconfident. The young man is sporting a blue, button-down dress shirt and a pair of fresh chinos.
A man holds a microphone to his face and obsequiously asks, "Mr. Donovan, what is the secret to your success?" his tone borders on being slavishly fascinated with LDJ's alleged talent.
Luciano chuckles and replies, "Well, I'm half-Italian...and half-awesome, so I naturally got good genes, haha!"
Sycophantic "news" guy laughs along. He asks another softball question, and LDJ "answers" it. He does so with a smile and an overconfident air.
The camera cuts to another guy in a suit who's speaking about something else related to LDJ's recent massive bet against MST.
Markham leans forward and increases the volume. His eyes are narrowed in deep focus, and his nostrils are flaring. He's got the intensity of a lion about to pounce on a gazelle.
His Hunger is building up within him. His Beast wants a treat.
He listens to the words as they roll out of the speaker. Luciano is going on about how he has the "secret sauce" that the rest of the crowd is simply missing. Markham's gaze is fixed on the TV, and he's unblinking.
"I've been working on this with Paul Cho over here. My best friend since we was both sucking our thumbs. Hey, Paul, get your ass over here and say 'hi' to the TV!"
The camera pans to Paul, who covers his face and tries to hide. Luciano laughs and pats his buddy on the back, "Ha! Look at him, he's blushing, hahaha! He's good at math, y'know. Asians like him have a...a thing for that, y'know?"
Oh, dear.
News fella uncomfortably laughs at that yikes remark and steers the conversation in a different direction. The camera pans back to LDJ, and he's talking about his family history.
"Yeah, my dad's a stockbroker who made a boatload of cash. I'm here to make a fucking yacht load! Hey, dad, if you're seeing this--"
Diego grabs the remote and flips the channel, "Ah, puta madre (ES: motherfucker). Fucking rich guys and their rich guy shit. I'm tired of it, let's see what else is on tonight."
Markham throws his head back and blows a raspberry. He hopes that LDJ's gonna be able to chat with him tonight. Guy looks like he's in the celebratory mood, not the chat-with-government-employees mood.
Meanwhile, Luciano is still talking to the TV people. He's telling them all about his house and the various imported fixtures and appliances that grace its lavish interior.
It's quite a show-offy thing for a buster like him to do, and it's obvious that the guy has a huge-ass ego. He's just showing off, really.
Paul is milling about in the corner, away from the lens of the camera, twiddling his thumbs, twitching his nose, and yawning really loudly.
Time for another bump of the sweet stuff, perhaps? Tonight, there's gonna be a TON of that, along with ecstasy, MDMA, and a few designer drugs that even Marco doesn't have "in stock".
Luciano's having a party tonight, and there's gonna be a LOT. A LOT.
Because when LDJ throws a party, it's loud, chaotic, and attracts a shitload of richie-rich types, like flies to a shit-filled puddle.
So, the party's already gonna be in full swing by the time that Markham gets to that parking lot. He was in for quite a surprise tonight...as is the woman paid to "assassinate" him.
For now, the Baali gets up and heads to the kitchen to make a phone call to his coworker/Touchstone, Jamie. He dials her number and taps his foot impatiently.
She picks up on the 2nd ring and says, "Hello? Markham?"
He smiles and says, "Hey, Jamie. It's me. Did you uh...get my email?"
Jamie sounds excited to hear her buddy's voice, "Yeah, I sure did, partner. I sure did. Wonder boy's all over the news. Ugh, that grin of his. Punch that off his face for me, would ya?"
Markham's expression gets serious, "Jamie. No. We're SEC, not vigilantes. We're supposed to be above that sort of thing."
"Tch. Bah, bah, baby, boo! You're no fun. Ah, anyway...yep, I got your email. You know, you don't always HAVE TO end every single email with your home address."
The Baali responds, "Really? I just thought it's professional courtesy."
Jamie laughs, "Oh, hahahahahahahaha! You dinosaur! Yeah, I did a bit of digging into this Clearwater Institute place."
"And?"
"Yup, definitely shady. Just like you said. Whole thing was some kind of convoluted ponzi scheme from the start."
"Did the SEC ever look into its activities closely?"
Jamie shuffles some things on her messy desk and sniffs, "Oh, yeah. We did, alright. You won't believe the name of the guy who actually investigated the Clearwater Institute. I'm still reeling from the shock, hahahahaha."
Markham furrows his brow, "What do you mean, Jamie?"
"He's none other than our bossman himself, Clifford Wright. Yeeeep, him. Y'know that he was an Enforcement Investigator, like you are now, before getting a sweet promotion to head our Seattle Enforcement Division?"
Markham's jaw drops, "What?! He--he investigated the Clearwater Institute? Well, wha--what did he find? Do you have his case notes, field reports, emails, anything--"
Jamie whistles, "Whoa, hey, slow down, cowboy. I'm afraid that all of that, my good friend, is classified. If you want any of that stuff, you'll have to go and talk to Mr. Wright himself. And make sure to put on your puppy dog eyes and say pretty pwease, haha!"
The Baali shakes his head and grumbles, "Shit."
Jamie clicks her tongue and lowers her voice to a semi-whisper, "OK, fine. It's not all gloom and doom. Don't ask how. We'll just call it 'watercooler gossip' and leave it at that."
"I'm listening, Jamie."
Ms. Pollux faintly chuckles, "'Course you are. So, big bossman Clifford went down to Flimont City, poked around the CWI, and by the time he wrapped up, his final report said, and I quote: 'NO EVIDENCE OF WRONGDOING'."
Markham shakes his head and insists, "That's bullshit, Jamie. I spoke to someone who was impacted by the CWI's fraudulent activities, and she's telling me otherwise."
Jamie sounds genuinely surprised, "Really? I wasn't expecting that. YOU, actually talking to someone, a 'she' at that. Tell me more."
The Demon tells her all about Rhonda and how she claimed that the CWI's pyramid scheme was "just the tip of the iceberg". He also talks about his suspicions regarding Clifford's initial investigation.
Or non-investigation, for that matter.
Jamie's wolf-whistles, "So, you finally found yourself a sweet lady, huh? You into waitresses or something?"
Markham stifles a sigh, "It's nothing like that, Jamie. It's just that...Rhonda reminds me of somebody I--I used to know. That's it."
"Oh, yeah, that's nice, I guess. But, back to the point: Luciano Donovan Junior. You ready to sit across from that clown?"
Markham plainly answers, "In this line of work, you have to be prepared to sit across from a whole lot of clowns. Trust me. Sometimes, you even have to sit a few feet away from the whole circus."
"Fair enough, I guess. I'd go with some Mace if I was in those shoes of yours. Guys like that...well, you know how it is."
"Yeah, I do, Jamie. Thanks. Keep digging into the Clearwater Institute's files for me but try not to get into any trouble."
Jamie lazily waves her hand, "Pfft. I owe you 1 for sticking up for me when nobody else would, Markham. Just go and catch those bozos down in F-City. And send pictures, OK? Preferably with you and a nice lady by your side...or in the background. You're not gonna live forever, so take it while you can!"
In actuality, vampires do "live forever". Provided they take measures like avoiding sunlight, fires, explosions, stakes, and intriguing machinations by their Elders (perceived or otherwise), that is.
Markham shakes his head and smirks a little, "You'd be surprised, Jamie. Take care, now. Don't do anything that'll land you in trouble. Once I'm done here, I'll be back in Seattle. I...miss you, Jamie."
Jamie puts her hand on her chest and blushes, "Aww, someone's feeling homesick already, huh? That's cute. Alright, I'll see what I can find. Be safe and PLEASE tell me if you find yourself a new sweetie."
The Baali chuckles and nods, "You got it. Bye."
Jamie grins widely, "Byeee!"
The call ends and Markham stares at the blank screen of his flip phone. He thinks about his past and his thoughts are interrupted by a knock on the door.
Diego goes to see who it is and, upon opening the door, is greeted by Raul, the Gangrel car mechanic. He's dressed in a pair of overalls and is holding a toolbox.
Diego steps aside and lets the man in, "Ah, hey, Raul. You're here early."
"Yeah, I'm here a little early. So, your pickup's been acting weird, huh?"
Diego nods, "Mm-hmm. I need that baby in top shape, man! I got places to be tonight! Even d-man here has got an important meeting and he can't afford to be late. Right?"
The Gangrel mechanic looks at Markham, who's seated on the couch and flipping through some of his paperwork. He turns his head and gives a small, polite nod.
Markham nods back, "Raul. How are you doing?"
Raul replies, "So, how's the SEC treating you, ese?"
Markham focuses on his papers and answers, "I can't complain, Raul. I'm good at my job and my boss likes me. And I get along with my coworkers well enough. Things are...going well."
Raul laughs and heads outside with Diego to go and check out the latter's pickup truck. Markham follows suit. He watches as Raul pops the hood and begins inspecting the engine.
The Gangrel mechanic shines his small flashlight on the underside of the vehicle and frowns a little, "It's the engine, again."
Markham queries, "What's wrong with it?"
Raul glances at Diego and states, "It's old and is already starting to fall apart. You gotta get a new one, homie."
Diego clicks his tongue in frustration and nods, "Yeah, I know. I'll get around to it eventually. You know, it's not like I have money growing out of my ass hairs, right? Shit's expensive and Marisol and I are barely getting by."
"I know how bad it is. I'm just saying. The fact that this thing has lasted THIS long is nothing short of a miracle, Diego. But miracles don't last forever, and you'll end up in a ditch if you don't take better care of this ride."
Markham, who's been listening attentively, asks, "How long would it take to replace the whole engine?"
Raul shrugs, "A few nights. I got some lowriders I'm working on back at the garage, but I can slot this in."
Diego rubs the back of his neck and sighs, "Ah, shit. This is a pain in the ass, Raul. Can't you just temporarily fix this sucker up for me? Y'know, some duct tape, spit, hope, and elbow grease to get it up and running for the night? Sound good?"
The Feral mechanic shakes his head, "Not really. I mean, yeah, I can give it a try, but I didn't bring all my tools with me."
He sighs heavily and continues, "At this point, I might as well give you a temporary ride."
Diego smiles widely and rubs his hands together, "Oh? You got something in mind, hermano?" he's got an expectant look on his face.
The Gangrel mechanic's face is impassive, "Temporarily. And if you scratch it, you pay for it."
"Sure, sure. Whatever you say. When can I expect the new ride, huh?"
Raul lazily gestures to his car, a shiny olive 1966 Chevy Impala Sport Sedan with custom modifications and new-looking rims, "Let's go back to my place and we can talk details. Markham, you coming?"
The Baali nods. His ceaseless Hunger has been building up for some time, and he's feeling a bit impatient. His Beast nags him for a taste of the eternal, a taste of some warm, mortal blood.
He's got an itch he needs to scratch. An appetite that's getting a bit difficult to ignore.
So, he and Diego get into Raul's dope-ass ride and head off towards the car mechanic's humble garage.
Meanwhile...
Mauve the Malkavian has already awaken from her daylight rest. She's slaked her thirst from a nearby sex worker who was unlucky enough to walk past her in the alleyway near her Haven.
The Malk is currently sitting at the kitchen table of the expensive apartment she lives in. She's staring at her computer screen and mumbling something to herself.
Bright numbers dance and flit all around her. Mauve's hand occasionally reaches out to a nearby digit. She taps the numbers nervously and cracks the timidest of smiles.
She's dressed in gray sweatpants and a white t-shirt with a faded picture of a cat. Her hair is a mess, and her eyes are sunken and somewhat bloodshot.
She's been going through the financial statements, investments, and various other things for the past few hours or so. A small part of her tells her that what's she's doing for Luciano and Paul is nothing short of wrong and unethical.
Mauve shakes those thoughts away, "No. No. I--I need this place. I need this roof over my head. I need peace when I sleep in--in the morning. I--I can't go back out there again. I can't. No. No. No."
She lets out a long breath and stares at her computer screen. She's trying to get her mind off of her recent ordeal, but it's not working.
"What...what do I do? What should I do? What CAN I do?! I--I should run. Run, and don't look back, maybe?"
She gulps and shakes her head, "No, no. Mr. Donovan is...is nice to me. He pays for this place and leaves me be. So long as I do wha--what he and his friend want."
Mauve bites her nail and continues, "I should be careful. I should watch my back. I should--I should prepare. In case they f--find me. When...they find me."
She's referring to the fact that the Kindred authorities in Kansas City are still out there, looking for her. A Blood Hunt was called on Mauve, and it only ends when her head rolls or when she gets reduced to ashes.
Mauve is not stupid. She knows that she can't stay here for very long, and she needs to prepare for the inevitable. She strongly believes that the Sheriff of Kansas City and their Hounds and Scourges could catch up to her, here in Flimont City.
After all, Kansas City isn't really that far off from F-City.
As she's going over worst-case scenarios in her troubled mind, a loud and repeated knock comes from her door. The Malkavian tenses up and she goes to answer it.
Luciano is standing there, hands stretched to either side of his body. He's grinning, but it turns sour when he sees how she's dressed.
"The fuck are you wearing?"
"Um...what?"
LDJ shoves his way in and marches to Mauve's bedroom. She quickly follows after him and stands in front of the closed door.
Luciano's got his arms crossed and is shaking his head, "No. No, no, no, no. Not tonight, Mauve. You're not gonna show up to MY party looking like a fucking homeless bum, OK?"
Mauve cluelessly asks, "What party? I wasn't--"
Luciano clicks his tongue and balefully glowers at the Malkavian. He mockingly repeats, "'What party'. What do you mean 'what party,' huh? The one I'm throwing tonight to celebrate MY recent winnings."
"Oh."
Luciano sneers at her, "Is that all you got to say, huh? Go on in there, slip out of these rags, and come out looking like a fucking princess, you hear?"
The Malk's eyes are wide and her mouth is slightly agape.
Luciano gets closer to her and snaps his fingers, "Hey! You fuckin' deaf now? Get in there, pick out something that shows a little cleavage, and PUT IT ON!"
Mauve Lilac lowers her head and shyly takes a few steps back, "Can I...not come to this party, Mr. Donovan? Loud sounds and all those people, they make me uncomfortable and I feel very overwhelmed. I--I don't like it."
"You're not askin' me, doll. I'm tellin' you. Get in there and slip into something that guys go goo-goo-gaga over."
The Seer's lips quiver, "But--but I don't feel like it, Mr. Donovan. I already did my part, and this arrangement is predicated on the fact that you keep me a secret--"
Luciano plugs his ears with his index fingers and yells out, "Lalalalalalalalala! I can't hear you! Come back to me when you've got something worthy of showing off to the rest of the guys. And bring a fuckin' coat, OK? You got 1 of those, right? Dead animal fur, y'know?"
The Malkavian shakes her head, "I--I don't have that. Actually, I'm not sure if I even have any 'good' clothes. I can't remember, Mr. Donovan. The last time I wore something that wasn't this, I can't even remember."
Luciano scrunches his forehead with his fingers, "Ah, fuck me. Great. Just great. OK, c'mon, we're gonna go and buy you some new shit."
"I don't want any new clothes. I'm OK with what I have. You don't have to--"
LDJ drags Mauve's arm and tries to pull her out the front door, "Shut up and c'mon. Let's go. And you better pick out some classy shit, understand?"
Mauve struggles and grunts as she frees her cold arm from the Luciano's grip, "But I'm not interested!"
Luciano winces at how cold her hand was, "God, you're fucking freezing! Jesus, how the fuck do you handle that? Are you made of ice or something?!"
The Malk sighs, "I'm sorry, Mr. Donovan. I'm not interested in this party of yours and I don't really need- or want- any new clothes. You--you do enough for me as it is."
Luciano glares at her, eyes slightly narrowed, "I decide what's enough. Remember, I own you now. All I gotta do is make 1 call, and it'll be your ass back on the streets again. You don't want that, right?"
Mauve's expression changes to a fearful one. Her shoulders slump, and she bows her head in shame. She lets out a long, heavy sigh, "...No. I don't want that. It's awful, terrible."
Luciano smiles and pats her on the head, "That's the spirit. So, if you don't got any clothes, we'll go and buy you some, alright? I got money- thanks to you, I got lots of it, heh."
He wraps his arm around her shoulder and guides her to the front door. The Malkavian is docile and meek as she allows herself to be led. She can't bear the thought of going back out there, to that cold and unforgiving world.
Being a homeless bloodsucker is far from ideal.
On the way down, Luciano remarks, "You're my golden goose, Mauve. A little crazy, but you're retarded, so that's OK. You deserve nice things every now and then. A golden goose can't look like a fuckin' bum, understand?"
Mauve lowers her head and silently nods.
Once they're outside, Luciano hops in the driver's seat of his car. Mauve gets in the back seat and avoids making eye contact.
At least her Hunger has been sated for tonight. Either way, all that sensory overload at the party is gonna be a huge pain, and it'll be hard for her to keep her sanity in the midst of all that excess.
The drive is uneventful. Luciano forces the Seer to buy a couple of low-cut dresses that cost an eye-watering amount of money. He just had to pick out 1 of the most expensive clothing stores in the whole city.
"I don't think these clothes will fit me, Mr. Donovan. Also, they're not my style."
"Yeah, whatever. Grow into them or lose some weight. We're buying this because I said so, and that's that. It looks nice on ya. Everyone's gonna wanna have a go at you. Hell, they might even try to spike your drink if you let them."
"But--but I don't drink."
"Either way, don't let them spike your drink. OK? You're my golden goose, laying them golden eggs for me. I give you a nice-ass place to stay and you keep up your end of the bargain by...?"
Mauve dutifully repeats, "By laying those golden eggs and making you a ton of money."
LDJ claps her back and grunts in approval, "Mm! That's right! Now, c'mon, let's pay for this shit."
The clothing store in question is brightly lit. The floors are white and spotless, the walls are beige, and the employees are dressed in a fancy shade of black.
Mauve stares at her reflection in the mirror and adjusts her new outfit. The dress she's wearing is black in color with a reddish-blue floral design. It's tight around her midriff, and it comes up just above her knees.
She looks...nice, but she feels awful. The black pumps she's wearing completes the look. She doesn't like how her arms look, though.
Luciano looks at her and remarks, "Wow, not half bad. Like the slum queen, hahaha! Yeah, you definitely need that makeover. Tomorrow evening, OK?"
Mauve cracks a small smile when she hears that, "Y--You promise?"
Luciano spreads out his hands and tilts his head, "Sure, why not? I got no big plans. It's not like I have to work for a living or anything, right?"
"Thank you, Mr. Donovan. Can I at least choose the salon?"
"Sure."
Luciano swipes his credit card at the checkout spot and is handed a bag full of fancy new clothes for the (still) reluctant vampire. He confidently strides out of the store, with said vampire following closely in tow.
Mauve's head is hung low, and she's constantly tugging at her new dress. She hates how it feels. She wants nothing more than to be wearing her sweatpants and t-shirt again.
She looks around her, and it feels like a lot of eyes are on her. Ms. Lilac's enhanced vampiric senses permit her to hear bits and pieces of what people are saying about her.
"Oh, I'd hit that."
"She looks so pretty. How come I'm not that pretty?"
"Nice dress. Must've cost a fucking fortune. The pumps, though? Nah, heels would be far better, sis."
"Luciano's got a new girl already? What happened to the other 2?"
The Malkavian shakes her head and whispers to herself, "I'm just his golden goose. I'm nothing more than that. So long as--as I got a roof over my head. Everything else d--doesn't matter."
LDJ's face is impassive. He takes notice of the people staring at his companion and snickers quietly.
Mauve gets in the back seat with a muffled groan and lets out a sigh. She closes her eyes and rests her head against the window. She stays that way for the remainder of the ride to Luciano's place.
During a traffic stop, she takes a look at the receipt, and her jaw drops when she sees the cost. She's about to voice her objection, but she decides not to.
Those few fancy dresses costed about $12,000 in total. Gosh.
Luciano doesn't want her protesting. He's already threatened to throw her out onto the streets again, should she act all uppity with him.
So, Mauve obediently keeps her mouth shut and silently watches the scenery as it goes by. The tall buildings and concrete walls pass by her in a blur.
She sees homeless encampments that stretch on for miles. It wasn't that long ago when she was amongst them. But she was day-sleeping in dumpsters or mailboxes with her hood pulled over her head.
The Malk shudders at the memory. She recalls the cold and the barely addressed Hunger (bordering on Frenzy) that followed her for nights. It's not something she wants to revisit.
Ever.
She looks down at the handmade bracelet on her wrist and is reminded of that homeless teenage girl who gave it to her as a token of their friendship.
The memory makes her smile and almost brings bloody tears to her eyes. Mauve Lilac hopes that that girl is doing fine. Or as "fine" as an unhoused teenaged girl can be in a cruel place like Flimont City.
For all intents and purposes, Mauve has now fully accommodated herself to this new situation, mainly from fear of destitution; she knows what it's like out there.
Back to Mr. Reed...
The Demon is stalking a rundown motel a few blocks away from Raul's car mechanic shop. It's in an unremarkable and poor part of town that's crawling with mortals that, for better or worse, are easy pickings.
It's a pretty simple criteria for a hungry vampire: if they're out and about during the day, then they're on the menu.
Markham is crouching down behind a scrapped car. He can hear his inner Beast growling; it wants to feed. The Hunger within him is strong.
He spots a group of people huddled around a barrel with a raging fire in it. They're passing a bottle of booze around and having what appears to be a merry old time.
They're loud and they're being rowdy, but they're mostly harmless.
The fire deters the Baali from simply attacking the whole bunch and biting a few necks to taste some sweet, sweet, human blood. So, he bides his time, hoping to find a good opportunity to strike.
And strike he most certainly shall. After a good minute, the group dissipates. 2 gals go off, holding each other's waists, giggling as they stagger towards another part of this former building.
Another lady, looking very sleepy, gets in a damp corner and dozes off.
Markham's gray eyes lock on the sleeping chick. Time for a little sandman action, and the Demon will get a little bit of sweet, sweet blood from a tastily warm neck. All good.
But his hopes are dashed when a random dude sits down next to her and strokes her hair, whispering sweet nothings. She smiles and wiggles at the touch.
To Markham, that's annoying. Shit. He slinks back into the shadows and suppresses his bestial urge to just lunge forward in a blind fury. He can't do that, because that'd mean a whole lotta problems.
So, he has to wait until someone is all alone. He needs to strike then and there, before the mortals get wise or something.
That guy pats the sleepy chick on her shoulder and tells her to get some good rest. He gets up with a tired groan and hobbles away to some unknown part of the motel...or what's left of it.
Markham sees this as his opportunity to strike. He looks to his sides before crossing the room towards his quarry. It's not as though mortals don't notice things. He just doesn't want any eyes on him. Not at the moment. 
He's certainly...overdressed for a dilapidated place such as this. Murky-ass water leaks from some of the pipes, the walls are damp and peeling, and there's plenty of garbage littered around.
It's a sad state of affairs, and it shows how this area was left to rot and wither (1 among many, sadly). The smell is pungent and nauseating, but that's of no bother to Markham.
He bares his fangs and slowly crouches down near the sleeping mortal. He's mere centimeters away from his target now, and he can hear his inner Beast howling at him to get it done and get it over with.
His vampire teeth lengthen as he closes in on the sleeping human. She wiggles a little bit, and he stops in his tracks. When it looks like she's fast asleep again, he gently draws closer and closer.
He quickly puts his hand over her mouth and bites into the back of her neck with the force and savagery of a starved wolf. She starts thrashing and writhing, but that doesn't bother Markham at all. He's drinking deep now.
The mortal eventually goes limp after sputtering out a few muffled, unintelligible words. The blood in her veins is hot and tasty, but it's not enough for the Baali's ravenously eternal Hunger.
His Beast growls for more. It demands more! Markham pushes back and only takes from this woman what is required. He's not a killer. An eternally damned predator of the dark nights, yes.
But a stone-cold killer? No.
After mere seconds he pulls away and licks the nasty puncture wounds on her neck. He's got what he wants and nothing more. He blinks a few times.
Before walking away, he slowly takes the tattered patchwork "blanket" and drapes it over her body. That's the least he can do. A small act of compassion from an immortal nocturnal predator.
He staggers away, trying to keep his feet off the puddles as best he can. Mr. Reed takes 1 final look over his shoulders and mutters a small, barely audible apology before leaving the scene.
That feeding was JUST enough to get him back on track, but it's clear that the Beast is a hungry and plucky lil thing. It WANTS more. It's demanding more. The urge is strong, and it's only going to get stronger.
The Demon leaves the rundown motel with a somber look. He knows his Beast wants to kill.
Oh, it's gon' be happy tonight, that's for sure!
Markham eventually rejoins Raul and Diego at the former's garage. They're both going over some papers on Raul's desk. Diego seems pretty frustrated.
Mr. Reed takes a seat on a stool nearby. He wonders if it's possible for him to go back and get some last-minute work done before the big "meeting" tonight.
Diego clicks his tongue and throws his hands up in the air, "Aw, c'mon! THAT MUCH! For an engine replacement?"
Raul shakes his head and shrugs, "Sorry, Diego, but that's how much it's gonna cost for a replacement. It's the economy, ese. Nothing I can do about that."
Diego shakes his head, "Pfft. OK, fine. I'll try. Think you can break it up into installments? C'mon, for an old friend, eh?"
Raul mulls some things over in his mind. He clicks his pen, "Hmm. How much you got right now? That'll factor into how much I'll take."
Diego pulls out his wallet, "I got like 90 bucks in my pockets."
The Gangrel mechanic holds out his palm and wiggles his fingers, "I'll give you the receipt for that 1st payment, OK?"
Diego pulls out the money, hands it all over to Raul, and snatches the receipt, "Hmm, so how much after this?"
"You trust me, right? Have I ever let you down before? No. Gimme a few nights to get the parts and have that pickup of yours purring like a kitten."
"So, a couple of nights, yeah? Cool. Cool. OK, thanks, ese! You're a good homie, Raul!"
Raul dryly hums, "Oh, I try, hermano. I try. Enjoy the replacement and don't fucking scratch it, crash it, or even ding it! You know what I mean, right? And don't park it in any rough places. If anything happens to this replacement, it's additional cost, and that's no lie."
Diego grins, "C'mon, I ain't that irresponsible, alright?"
Raul shrugs, "Depends. Remember what happened back in '99?"
Diego lightly smacks Raul's shoulder, "Oh, c'mon, I wanted to impress a few chicas on the block. You can't blame me for trying!"
The mechanic sighs and shakes his head, "No, but I can blame you for driving above the speed limit in my Sire's prized Chrysler Neon. I told you, man, that's the only thing I got that reminds me of...them."
Diego's expression softens, "Yeah, I'm sorry 'bout that. Yeah, I'll uh...be good with the replacement, no worries. Tank's full, right?"
Raul ticks some things off in a binder and nods, "Mm-hmm. Always. Markham, how's Unlife?"
Markham answers, "It's all good. How about you?"
The car mechanic turns his gaze heavenwards and muses, "It is what it is, Markham...it is what it is."
Diego sniffs and heads over to what'll be his replacement ride for the next few nights. It's a generic-looking, teal-colored sedan. It looks as plain and bland as any car in its class.
But it's functional enough for what Diego needs it to do. It'll get him around the city, and that's that.
The Feral's initial look of anticipation fades away when he looks through the windows. The seating does look scratched and stained, but he figures that he can't be too picky.
Raul remarks, "Seating had a bit of an issue. Somebody, who shall remain unnamed, got a bit frisky in there. And when us Gangrel get frisky, oh, mierda! Haha!"
Diego grins knowingly and bites his lower lip, likely thinking about all those times that he and Marisol had some wild sex in various vehicles, "Oh, man. I know. I know! Whoowee!"
Much later...
Markham has done some last-minute work. He's gone over the necessary financial records, the transaction logs, and all the files. The Baali has gone over each and every one of them to the best of his abilities.
He jots down a few things on a piece of paper. He then folds that and puts it in 1 of his suit pockets. He gets up from his seat and looks down at the ground, eyes slightly narrowed.
His mouth is tightly drawn into a grimace as he slowly shakes his head, "Ugh..."
The wall in the kitchen indicates the time is 10:50 PM. Diego pokes his head in and asks, "You all ready, homes? Or you need a few more minutes to do your...thing?"
Markham gathers a few documents and shoves them into a leather folder. He clears his throat, "Uh...nope, I'm all ready. Just got a few loose ends to take care of, is all."
The Feral claps once, "Aight, then! You sure this ain't a trap or some shit, right?"
Markham stifles a sigh, "They're not dumb enough to try the same thing twice. Besides, even if I did have proof, I can't exactly go to anyone without blowing my own cover. No, I got this, Diego. Don't worry."
Diego raises his hands and slowly backs off, "I'll leave you to it. But be careful, amigo, don't want you getting hurt, y'know?"
"I appreciate your concern, Diego. Really, I do. You know where this parking lot that is right off the corner of Hugo and 7th, right?"
"C'mon, ese, I've been in this crazy place for years- of course I know that joint. You sure you don't want me to stay as backup or trail you from the rooftops?"
Markham shrugs and scratches his neck, "If I'm gonna be honest, I'd rather you NOT be around me when I go for my meeting with these 2. I don't want you--"
The Outlander interjects, "Yeah, yeah, I know. Getting involved and getting hurt. OK, fine. C'mon, let's go."
"Let's."
Much, much later...
Traffic was pretty nuts on the way to the intended destination. It's now 11:20 PM. Miss Blue is still seated in that coffee shop. She takes the last sip of her 6th cup of Americano and lets out a sigh.
She leans back into her chair, staring out into space. She takes a bite out of her blueberry muffin, wipes her mouth, pays her bill, and gets up to leave. She checks her watch. OK, showtime.
The mortal contract killer goes to the trunk of her car and pulls out her pump-action shotgun. She checks it 1 last time before slinging it over her shoulder. Her suppressed pistol is already loaded.
She takes up her position behind a pillar and lies in wait, using the pillar as cover and concealment. She keeps an eye on her watch.
"Head on a swivel. Stay frosty and remember your training," she tells herself, her voice low and somewhat soft. Her eyes are as focused as they can possibly be.
She's seen the results of getting sloppy before, but she's a goddamned pro.
Diego drops his Baali buddy a block away from the parking lot. From there, the Feral zooms off to take care of some other matters, related to the community center and whatnot.
Markham stretches his arms and groans quietly. He casually strides over to the parking lot, with his head held high and his hands in his pockets. He's got his leather folder tucked under his left armpit.
It's now 11:27 PM. Miss Blue adjusts her position a bit to keep herself concealed and hidden. She takes a deep breath and slowly exhales, keeping her watch.
Meanwhile, Markham makes his way towards the parking lot. He's got his trench coat on, and his free hand is deep in his pocket. He looks around, making sure that no one is following him.
So far, so good. Yep.
Ms. Blue waits in anticipation. She steadies her shotgun and prepares to spring into action.
Mr. Reed finally arrives at his intended destination. The subterranean parking lot's lights are still as bright as ever. Even Markham can't help but wince under the bright intensity of these lights.
He takes a few seconds to take everything in. The lot itself isn't as empty as it should be. In fact, it looks to have plenty of other vehicles parked within its confines.
Markham looks at his watch and takes a few steps forward. 11:28 PM. He looks around and waits.
"Maybe they're running late. Hm."
The assassin spots her target, who seems to be checking his surroundings.
"Well hello there, handsome. Dressed for your own funeral, huh? Makes things easier that way," she whispers under her breath, with a slight giggle at the end.
Markham checks his watch again and sighs. He calls out, "HELLO? My name's Markham Reed and I'm here to um...meet a few people."
The SEC Enforcement Investigator pulls out his Motorola flip phone and dials LDJ's number.
Of course, LDJ is already in a partay mood, so when he answers Markham's call, he sounds drunk.
"H--H--Helloooooo? Heyyy, Angie. You get my gift yet?" his slurred words are drowned out by very loud background music and wild cheering.
"I'm in the parking lot, Mr. Donovan. I don't see anyone here."
Luciano blinks a few times. His head is still spinning, but hearing Markham's voice causes a flash of sobering clarity, "Ahh, so you're at the meet point, hm?"
"Yes, sir. I am."
LDJ scratches the back of his head and snickers, "Yeah, sure, sure. I'll have someone meet you r--ri--hic--hic. Right away. Just hold on tight, a--" he stops to throw up a bit in the background, "--hic-right now. S--Sorry about that."
Markham is annoyed at having to wait like this, "Mr. Donovan, you seem a bit intoxicated at the moment. Are you sure we're gonna be able to talk about your--"
LDJ lazily makes a few staticky noises before abruptly hanging up on Markham.
Mr. Reed snaps the flip phone shut with an agitated sigh, "Goddamn it. He did it again. Hmph."
He checks his watch again and silently mulls over a few things. He waits a little bit longer for something to happen.
Ms. Blue steadies her breathing and sneaks across the parking lot to get a closer vantage point.
"Be a shame to end a guy this handsome...but orders are orders."
Her lips part, and she exhales a soft sigh of satisfaction as she looks Markham over. She uses the cars as cover as she moves across the parking lot, her boots lightly crunching the asphalt.
Mr. Reed just keeps on waiting and looking around for a bit, hoping to spot whoever it is he's supposed to meet.
"I don't have all night..."
Frustrated, Markham decides to call up that little prick again, but the hairs on his Unliving body stand up. His bestial senses kick into overdrive and his vampiric super hearing picks up the faint sounds of a mortal heartbeat.
It's calm. Steady. Slow. It's definitely not Markham's. Vamps don't got no heartbeats!
The Baali feels a tad bit...off. His head swerves around and his eyes are frantically scanning for whatever or whomever it is that's watching him.
His senses aren't lying. They can't lie to him. There is definitely someone with him in this place, watching him right now.
Miss Blue raises her shotgun and takes careful aim. Her right finger gently slides over to the trigger, and she begins applying light pressure to it. Her breaths are deep, slow, and controlled.
It's like a meditation for her.
She squeezes off a single shot, and it hits Markham right in the back. The impact sends him flying face-first into the asphalt ground.
The gunshot reverberates all over the place, and Markham groans. It felt like somebody kicked him hard in the back of the neck with a steel-toed boot.
Ms. Blue pumps the shotgun and follows it up with another blast to his back. The shot echoes throughout the parking lot, and Markham's body violently twitches on the ground, but no blood is spilt.
Miss Blue pumps her weapon as she slowly walks towards the injured Baali.
His back feels like it's on fire. Markham is dazed; his mind is still reeling from the sudden onslaught. With great effort, he gets off the ground and turns to face Miss Blue.
Their eyes meet, and Markham immediately feels something raging through his entire body. Miss Blue doesn't flinch. Her eyes are as focused as can be.
Without hesitating, she fires off another blast, hitting him right in his chest. He stumbles back but catches himself. His vision goes hazy.
He shakes his head a few times, and the haziness clears. Markham blinks a few times before fixing the hit lady with an intense, unblinking stare.
Through gritted teeth, Miss Blue hisses, "Why won't you go down?!" she blasts him again in the chest. This time he stumbles backwards and almost loses his footing.
Miss Blue's eyes widen slightly. Markham's clothes are tattered- all that shotgunning has ruined his suit! However, his wounds already begin the process of mending themselves.
The Baali stands up and clutches his abdomen. He's heaving with labored, shaky breaths, and he's doing his best not to fall over. He growls. His fangs are fully borne and totally visible. His eyes glow a shade of hellish red and his claws pop out of his fingertips.
Ms. Blue lightly gasps, "Wha--what the fuck are you?"
The Demon lurches towards Ms. Blue at speeds that most humans would be unable to track.
The leather folder is on the ground. Markham's claws slash the hit woman's left arm, causing her to drop her shotgun. She recoils, gritting her teeth.
His grievous wounds hold him back. Ms. Blue sees this as her opening and picks up her shotty. She frantically tries to reload it. Markham rushes at her, and she barely avoids being slashed.
She takes a step back, keeping a safe distance from her assailant. Her heart's racing a mile a minute.
Oh, how the tables have turned.
Ms. Blue loads a few shells in, her hand shaking. She pumps her shotgun and aims it right at the vampire's face. Markham lunges at her and grabs the barrel of her shotgun. He snatches the weapon out of her hands and throws it against a nearby car.
The shotgun misfires and shatters another car's window. The loud noise makes Ms. Blue cringe. Markham's eyes narrow. His voice is low, guttural, and beastly.
He sounds like a wild animal, growling and ready to rip her to shreds.
Ms. Blue's eyes widen when she sees the Baali's wounds closing themselves. She takes another step back, her gaze fixated on Markham. He's hunched over, clutching his abdomen.
The hitter gulps, pulls out her silenced pistol and immediately opens fire. Markham goes Stealth Mode (Nickname for Obfuscate) as a few small bullets whiz past him. The Baali vanishes into thin air.
Miss Blue gasps in shock and her expression changes from determined to frightened.
Good. She should be. The Devil's coming out to play.
The mortal assassin wildly fires a few shots at what she perceives as shimmers in the air. Nothing is working, and she's only wasting precious ammunition.
Markham rests behind a concrete pillar and grits his teeth. His wounds have nearly fully healed, and he's ready to go another round and finish this assassin off.
His Beast within is going nuts. He can feel its bloodlust coursing through his body. He can also feel...something else, something dark and primal. Something unnatural. Something ancient.
As a Baali, he has an inkling that the Beast isn't the only "entity" lurking in his mind (and body). He knows. Oh yes, he does.
Whoever (or whatever) that is wants 1 thing- it wants him to kill her, but not just to kill her. It wants Markham to drain her to the last drop, and the thought of this propels him forward.
A part of him doesn't want to do it. He doesn't. But the Beast within is ALSO screaming for more blood. And the "entity's" influence is only further amplifying the Beast's sanguine call.
Still Obfuscated, Markham sneaks up behind Ms. Blue and quickly slashes her right arm. She cries out in pain, but she doesn't give up. She pulls out her pistol and continues firing at him, even though she has no idea where he's at.
"AAAAAHGRGH!" she chaotically fires a few more shots till a clicking sound confirms that she's all out of ammo. She quickly reaches for another clip, rams it in, and takes aim.
Her target is nowhere to be found. There's no shimmering and no movement, no nothing. Only her, her empty shell casings, and a few damaged vehicles nearby.
Taking this opportunity, she quickly retrieves her shotgun, checks it, and fires another wide blast into the area, shattering a nearby car's window. No response, not even a grunt. Just dead silence.
"Where are you?! Show yourself, damn you!" she shouts, her voice cracking a bit.
Markham takes a few more seconds to allow the last of his wounds to mend themselves. The dead flesh makes a gross squelching noise as it comes together, and the vampire winces. It's like an extremely painful stretch after a long, hard marathon run.
It's not exactly the best feeling in the world, but he'll take it.
Ms. Blue pumps her shotgun, reloads it, and swerves around like a crazy person, trying her best to get a bead on the vampire. She fires off a few more rounds into the air, and the blasts reverberate across the parking lot.
Nothing.
Markham "de-cloaks" (for lack of any better terms). He's still well-hidden behind another concrete pillar, and the assassin's eyes dart from side to side, looking for anything or anyone that could be her attacker.
Her heart's racing, and the sweat's rolling down her face. For the first time, in a long time, she's afraid.
Miss Blue takes a few cautious steps to the right, her eyes focused and her shotgun gripped tightly.
She spots the leather folder on the ground. It was dropped during the scuffle, but the folder remains shut. She shakes her head, softly grunts, and keeps walking. The assassin has a job to do. And she will do it. She has to.
Ms. Blue walks past the folder and continues looking around for any signs of Markham.
The bloodsucker emerges, snarls loudly, and tackles her from the side. She lets out a shrill scream, and they tumble on the ground. Her shotgun goes flying and lands a few feet away. Markham gets on top of her, straddles her, and pins her arms down.
With devilish rage glowing in his eyes, he screeches and tries to bite into her neck. His pointy fangs are fully visible to her.
Miss Blue squirms and screams, "AAAAHH! WHAT THE FUCK ARE YOU?! AAAGH!"
She tries to wrestle her arms free, but Markham's grip is iron-clad.
The mortal hitter reaches for her sidearm, jabs it near the vampire's abdominal region, and fires a few shots. Markham screams in pain and rolls off her, clutching his wounded side. He groans in deep, deep agony.
The hitter scrambles for her shotgun and grabs it. With trembling hands, she aims for his head and fires off another shell. It hits Markham's right arm and he roars.
He's down, but he's not out. His right arm hangs limp, and his left side is riddled with holes, and yet he's still moving.
Ms. Blue's jaw hangs open in sheer disbelief. She suspends that, reloads, and pumps her weapon. She aims and fires again, but Markham rolls out of the way. The shot blasts perforates a nearby car tire.
He's up and he's angry. His right arm is slowly (but surely) healing itself. Ms. Blue curses and fires off a few more rounds. They all miss.
Markham snarls and charges her again. She's too slow, and the vampire's claws graze her torso, leaving a few bloody gashes. Ms. Blue winces, gritting her teeth, and her breathing becomes erratic.
The assassin tries to back away, but her back is pressed up against a parked SUV. She pulls out the nasty bowie knife tucked away in her boot.
She twirls it around a few times and rushes the vampire, screaming and crying like a desperation-stricken cave dweller up against someone (or something) that they do not fully comprehend.
She slashes Markham's right arm, and the Baali screams. He staggers backward, clutching his injured arm. It's not enough to hold him back, though.
He retaliates with a violent swipe of his sharp claws, and it gashes the hitter's face. Blood begins flowing freely from the wounds, and she drops her bowie knife.
She's hurt and disarmed, and yet the vampire doesn't stop. Ms. Blue tries to scramble for either of her firearm, but Markham wraps his hand around her waist and pulls her close.
The assassin kicks her legs, screams, and spits in the vampire's face. Markham snarls. He's got her. With crimson fury burning in his dead eyes, he yanks her even closer. She's helpless now.
"F--Fuck you!" she shouts and spits at him, "Let me go, goddamn it! LET ME GO!"
She headbutts him, but nothing she does is working. Markham pushes her neck to the side and viciously bites down on her exposed flesh.
Ms. Blue cries out in agony, "AAAAAGGH! NO! PLEASE, NO--!"
He begins to suck out ALL of her blood. Slurping noises fill the parking lot, along with dying gasps and wheezes from the doomed assassin.
Some blood spills out of his mouth and onto her chin. The blood's running down her collarbone and soaking her top. Her arms go limp, and her eyes roll back.
She's going. She's really going. She's done for.
After Mr. Reed drains her, he tears a huge chunk of flesh from her neck, and some of her blood sputters out like a broken water fountain. Ms. Blue's drained corpse hits the ground with a thud.
Markham stands over her, with blood just dripping down his chin. He's in pain. He's a complete, utter, mess. And yet, he feels...better. So much better.
His body is no longer wracked with such intense pain. His wounds have healed themselves or are in the process of doing so. Even his arm is slowly being restored.
He looks around. Nobody saw anything, or if they did, no one is brave or stupid enough to say anything.
He's heaving with adrenalized, frantic breaths, but those breaths soon go away. Mr. Reed's heart stops racing. Everything's good. Everything's great. In fact, he feels like a whole new man.
He kneels next to the dead woman, reaches into her pockets, and pulls out a small flip phone. He checks her recent contacts and sees frequent phone calls to someone called "General".
He dials that number and waits. Someone picks up. Mr. Strickland's voice speaks on the other end, "Ah, Miss Blue. Please tell me it's been taken care of?"
Markham growls, "Miss Blue is unable to pick up right now." The Demon's voice is low, guttural, and a tad bit menacing.
Silence. Then a shaky stammer, "Y--You--"
"Your hitter failed, and now, she's dead. Who are you?"
"I could ask you the same thing, Markham Reed, or Beckett, or whatever name you go by. You're an enigma. Who...are you?"
Markham is not in the mood for games and he retorts, "I know who paid you. It was Luciano Donovan Junior, wasn't it?"
Mr. Strickland's silence speaks volumes.
"IT WAS him, wasn't it?!"
Mr. Strickland changes the subject, "Who are you? Special Forces? Delta? Navy SEALS? Foreign intelligence?"
"None of the above."
"Then, WHO ARE YOU!?" there's desperation in Mr. Strickland's tone. His voice is raised a few octaves.
Markham hangs up the call. He sees the shotgun lying nearby. He has an idea.
The Demon Worshipper dials 911, uses Obfuscate to make his fingerprints disappear, and then fires off a few shotgun blasts at a random concrete pillar.
He tosses the gun aside, picks up his leather folder, and walks away. Ms. Blue's exsanguinated body is left lying on the ground.
The Demon Worshipper has his fists balled and his lips are pursed. Cop cars swarm the area within minutes. Officers descend upon the scene. 2 of them spot the dead woman and the cops immediately cordon off the area.
Markham Reed doesn't stick around to see what happens next.
As he's being driven away by Diego, they both can hear the distant, shrill wail of sirens.
The Gangrel shakes his head in disbelief and looks at Markham's shredded clothes. Blud was wearing a nice, fancy suit and now it's torn to bits. Same for the trenchcoat and green shirt!
Markham looks down at the leather folder on his lap and remains silent; he only told the Outlander very little of what had happened.
Diego whistles and tries to lighten the mood, "Man, that was a nice suit, ese. I uh...thought we'd go and crash some weddings if you was done with that meeting quick enough, hah! Maybe grab us some...cupcakes."
"No weddings tonight, Diego." Markham's voice is flat, calm, and emotionless.
"Yeah, no, I get it. You didn't expect this, did you?"
Markham shakes his head, his expression reflecting bitterness, rage, and a wee hint of regret.
"Look, if it makes you feel better, you made it out without anyone spotting you. You drained that puta, right?"
"Yeah, sure. I did...I had no other choice. It was...self-defense. J--just like last time."
The Feral takes a sharp left turn on a busy road, "Well, there you go. Self-defense, yeah. At least she's dead and gone and won't be hurting nobody no more. What happened after that, anyway?"
Markham gives Diego a brief run-down. He leaves out a lot of the gruesome details, but he does mention the attempted hit, and his short talk with Mr. Strickland.
"It was the only named contact she had on her phone, Diego. Numerous calls were made from and to this guy. So, I took the liberty of calling him back."
"He knows my real name, along with my fake one. I let him believe whatever it was that he wanted to believe."
The Feral stops at a red light and drums his fingers on the steering wheel. His gaze is fixed on the road ahead.
Markham blankly stares out the window at the distant cityscape, "He knows who I am. If he finds out where I'm hiding, then we--"
The Gangrel clicks his tongue and reassures his pal, "Then, we'll fight 'em together. I'm NOT losing that Haven, man. You know how important it is to me and Marisol."
Markham nods. A part of him wants to take more drastic measures, but what? How? Where would he even logically start?
"I can't just leave this as it is. He can't be allowed to walk away, Diego."
The light turns orange, and a few cars start honking behind them.
Diego tightly grips the steering wheel, "I know that, homes. I know that. Well, we'll figure something out. You'll get him. I know you will. But first, let's just get as far away from all this loco shit as possible, alright?"
"Hm. Right."
The light turns green, and the Outlander floors the pedal. After a long pause, he scoffs, "I can't believe they'd actually have the cojones (ES: balls) to do that shit...for the 2nd time! Mierda!"
Markham's eyes are not focused on the road. Instead, they're fixated on the folder on his lap, "Hm. I should've known better, but there's very little I can do, legally speaking, to stop it. My whole existence is in a legal gray zone of sorts, Diego."
"Hmm, true. You've got the Masquerade to worry about, yeah. If you went public, that kind of scrutiny would be worse than a bunch of assassinos. They could hound you till kingdom come, and then, the next night, everyone would forget that you even existed."
The Baali frowns, "Hm. Yeah. What...do I do now?"
Diego eases his foot off the gas and switches lanes, "Haha, I thought you was the smart guy here. 3rd time's the charm- maybe you should just take a break and relax for a few nights?"
The Feral's expression hardens. His brows furrow and he hisses, "We'll handle it. We'll make it work. Don't you worry, homes. It's just a minor setback. You still have some advantages."
As the 2 drive away, the sound of sirens is getting ever so distant.
Markham shakes his head, "No. I can't do breaks. I came here to accomplish something, and I will. I must. I--I have to."
Diego snorts, "Married to the job, huh? Yeah, that tracks. I could ask around, maybe some vatos might know where this Luciano Donovan prick is holed up. No promises, though, but we can try."
He looks at Markham sympathetically, "Trying's all we can do at the moment."
"Hm. I guess so. Even then, I can't just show up to his place and say, 'Hey, buddy, it's me, Markham Reed, from the SEC! I know you're the one who's been trying to have me killed. Can we sit down and talk about that?'"
Diego laughs.
Markham sighs deeply and contemplates his options. Normally, this would be the time he'd go to the authorities and have LDJ, P-Money, and the Pym Reaper all arrested for conspiracy to murder a government employee, but...
Said government employee's nature as a vampire makes this matter hella complicated. And messy.
A part of him wants to give up and just leave it all behind. That give-up-and-go-back-home feeling, as small as it is, nags at the back of his mind.
He's been through a lot in these past few nights in Flimont City.
A LOT.
Still, even that pales in comparison to what comes next. It was, if anything, just right around the corner.
In a manner of speaking.
Many hours later...
The night sky is pitch black. Clouds partially cover the full moon. There are a few stars in the sky. It's a typical late night in Flimont City. Cars zoom by and cops continue to be out in full force.
A dark SUV rolls up near an old municipal building. Gordon Pym is pulled out by 1 of Mr. Strickland's people. The Pym Reaper is in a sourly foul mood, and he grumbles and curses to himself.
He's wearing a nice, navy-blue suit with a black cravat and matching pants. His hair's a bit messy, however.
Mr. Strickland is standing near the building's atrium. The man's wearing a simple olive-green overcoat and chinos.
Gordon Pym is pushed over to the front door by Mr. Strickland's lackey. The lackey doesn't say anything further and simply walks away. They lean against a nearby wall and fold their arms.
The Pym Reaper storms up to Mr. Strickland, the former's face twisted in a hateful sneer.
Mr. Strickland lifts his chin, "Stay right where you are, Mr. Pym."
Gordon points a demanding finger, "I want answers. NOW. You said it'd be taken care of. You told me everything would be fine!"
Mr. Strickland rolls a shoulder, "And it would've, except--"
"Except what?! I had to hear from a CORONER that your hitter failed and is now dead. She's on a fucking slab at the city morgue. They're saying it was...exsanguination. What the fuck kind of maniac are we dealing with?!"
Mr. Strickland rubs his chin, "That's what perplexes me as well. This fellow...he truly is an enigma, isn't he?"
Gordon sneers, "Cut the crap. My client paid for a dead body and that's what we're still--"
Mr. Strickland raises his hand, "Yes, yes, I know. You know my organization doesn't do refunds. Ever. If you want another attempt, it usually costs. In all my time leading my organization, we've NEVER had this many botched attempts. Until now."
Gordon's hands are clenched into fists, and his voice is a hissing whisper, "Listen here, you...you smug son-of-a-bitch. I don't give a shit about any of that military mumbo-jumbo. We paid- TWICE- for Markham fucking Reed to be dealt with. He is ALIVE--"
He stammers. After that, he raises his voice and adds, "He is KILLING your damn employees or--or soldiers or whatever you call them this week. He is FUCKING EVERYTHING UP!"
Mr. Strickland nods and sniffs, "Oh, believe me, I'm well aware of the current situation. Calling it FUBAR would be an understatement."
Gordon's eyes are wide and his chest is heaving.
Mr. Strickland shrugs, "You'll have to understand, Mr. Pym, this isn't exactly an ordinary circumstance. Markham Reed- or whatever name he goes by- is by no means an...ordinary man."
Gordon's face scrunches in confusion, "What is that even supposed to mean?"
"It could mean any number of things. Maybe he got his hands on some old Soviet experimental tech. Or maybe he's working with some sort of private organization. We...just don't know at the moment."
Mr. Strickland's tone becomes less confident, and a bit more somber, "Whatever the case, we need to deal with this man quickly. He's already killed 2 of my best fighters- I won't have him laying his fingers on a 3rd."
"You'll have a new hitter ready by tomorrow, right? I'm tired of asking the same question every time. I'm getting a bit frustrated here, Strickland."
"Oh, yes. Maybe this time, I'll send in a squad to take care of our little enigma."
Gordon scoffs and mumbles, "You should've done that sooner."
Mr. Strickland brushes past the Pym Reaper. He looks back, "Miss Blue chose her path. She opted to take him on by herself. Alas, she failed. She paid for it with her life, tragically. She was, nevertheless, a good soldier. Till the very end, I hope."
Gordon's hands are slightly trembling, and he grits his teeth, "Just...get...him...OUT OF THE PICTURE!"
"It's going to cost you and Mr. Donovan a good deal of money, but we'll do it. It shall be done. I've come too far to watch my organization come apart at the hands of some SEC nobody."
"Yeah. You'd better. My client won't be too happy if his problems aren't dealt with soon."
Mr. Strickland replies, "I'm sure we'll have things wrapped up and sorted out in due time, Mr. Pym. So long as you have the money for it. I'll admit, this is uncharted territory, even for me. We'll figure it out, though."
Gordon glares, "Good. If you can't, then I'll--"
Mr. Strickland stops, turns on his heel, and grabs Mr. Pym by the neck.
The Pym Reaper tries to speak, but all he can muster are a few weak gurgling noises. Mr. Strickland squeezes his neck and the man's eyes bulge.
"You'll what, hmm? Go to the authorities? You're not that stupid, Mr. Pym. You'll throw a tantrum and whine, maybe, but that's all you can do."
Gordon's legs are kicking, but he's not going anywhere. He's trapped. Mr. Strickland's got a firm, almost bone-crushing grip on him.
"Let--go...of me, you so--"
Mr. Strickland lets go of the Pym Reaper and even adjusts his cravat. How considerate, how...thoughtful.
Gordon stumbles backward and almost falls. He regains his balance and takes a deep breath. He wheezes and rubs his sore neck.
The lackey looks up. Their expression is unreadable, but a smirk dances on the corners of their mouth.
Mr. Strickland turns to look at them, and they immediately return to their default neutrality.
Gordon gathers his composure and hobbles off to the SUV. He gets in and slams the door. The lackey follows soon after. The vehicle speeds off, and the Pym Reaper's gone.
Mr. Strickland turns and walks off in his own direction.
The contract has failed. Again. Daniel Percy was the 1st to fall into Markham's fangs, and now Ms. Blue.
Mr. Strickland, for his part, has lost a valuable asset and a reliable killer, all because of the same mysterious individual.
Luciano Donovan Junior, meanwhile, is hung over and covered in dried vomit. There's a trail of cocaine leading from his bathroom and to his bed.
He's currently slumped over a nearby desk. It's a miracle he's not dead. He drank like a fish and partied like an absolute animal.
When LDJ comes around, he and Gordo are likely to have a few choice words with each other. Paul is passed out in the bathtub, bits of white powder dot his sweaty face, and the entire house smells like a combination of booze, cigarettes, and sweat.
And other unpleasant odors.
Music continues playing, and a few party attendees are still lingering. Most of them are passed out or unconscious, but a handful are awake and are either sniffing coke off of glass tables, fucking in the corners, or letting various pills dissolve on their tongues.
The lights are dimmed, and there's a thick haze hanging over the entire place. The music's turned down low, but the bass is still thumping.
Mr. Pym, Mr. Strickland, and Mr. Donovan have been playing a dangerous game, and it's gonna cost them dearly. How it does so, however, remains to be seen.
For the rest of the night, LDJ's pad remains a hotbed for vice, excess, and oblivious meaninglessness.
After all, that's LDJ's social milieu: one characterized by hucksterism and irrational exuberance. All that money, all that fame, and all those connections.
All of it used (or misused) to get more, because more is simply never enough for these types.
As the days and nights wear on, will things slowly begin to change? For the better or for the worst? Either way, a storm's brewing in Flimont City and many of its inhabitants are going to have a front-row seat to the upcoming events.
Or perhaps they'll be swept up by it. Or merely cast to the wayside.
Chapter 15: Makeover
Sunrise in Flimont City arrives in due time. Birds are chirping and a slight breeze stirs. The skies are clear, the weather's mostly decent, and it's a new day.
Those still able to walk about under the beaming sun are out and about. They're either on their way to work or they're out and about on their own volition, doing their own thing.
Many of the residents are getting breakfast and/or a quick bite that doesn't exactly count as the most important meal of the day. They're talking amongst themselves or listening to music while walking.
A harsh yellow glow bathes the streets of the city, casting long shadows and bathing everything (and everyone) in its warm light.
Is this the calm before the storm?
A storm that's already well underway, but one which has yet to reach its full intensity.
In the midst of all this, cars swoosh by, trucks chug along congested roads, and the people continue on their daily routine.
The usual.
Vampires or not, hitters or no hitters, these mere mortals have their whole day ahead of them. They've got their whole ordinary and mundane lives ahead of them, really.
Most of 'em, anyway.
Poor Mauve Lilac was so overwhelmed by all the noises and vibrating sensations that she couldn't stand being around the wild and raucous party anymore. She had to get away.
Mauve Lilac was once an ordinary breathing human being, like everybody else. That was, until her younger sister, a vampire, Sired her in the most violent way possible.
Mauve Lilac isn't even her real name, but it's the name she chose after fleeing Kansas City.
To this night, the Malkavian denies the fact that it was her own sister who Embraced her, who essentially doomed her and turned her life upside down, into her Unlife.
Instead, Ms. Lilac takes comfort in blaming some random stranger for her current...predicament.
The Malkavian was so horrified and discombobulated after her 1st night that she barely even remembers anything from those crucial moments.
Mauve had a nice job with the Kansas City Financial Report (the KCFR), a nice place, and a nice, quiet life.
She didn't have a lot of money, but it was decently enough for a single woman in Kansas City. Ms. Lilac has always been excellent with numbers, finance, and data, but she was never much of a "people's person", as it were.
That got kinda worse after her Embrace and all the madness and carnage that followed. Now, she's got a very shy and withdrawn personality, and the slightest of noises- such as a door slamming, or a car honking, or a person shouting- tends to scare her.
Mauve's mind has also been warped by the Blood of Malkav, and that's how she's able to possess insider knowledge that would otherwise be hard (or nigh impossible) to come by.
The Seer is now the "golden goose" for Luciano Donovan Jr. (and Paul Cho). In exchange for a place to stay, she lays those "golden eggs" by guiding and advising the financial bets and dealings of those 2 guys.
It's not the safest position in the world, but it ensures a roof over her head. Of course, the ethics of it all are murky and dubious, but Mauve can't bring herself to care too much.
She just wants to survive.
Right now, she's fast in the clutches of the day-sleep, as is every Cainite in this sunny corner of the blue ball we refer to as Planet Earth.
"We're dealing with a sick freak here, Luciano," Gordo's tired voice comes through the speakerphone, "I don't know what kind of maniac does that to bodies, but he's definitely not right in the head."
Gordon has been up all night, trying to figure out this mess.
Luciano is still sobering up. He rubs his face a few times and responds, "I want my fuckin' money back! I already blew 60 large, TWICE, to bump this cazzone (ITA: idiot) off! This is bullshit!"
Gordon furiously claps back, "You think I don't know that?! I'm trying to find out more about this fucking guy, but I don't know where to start. I'm running on fumes here, DAMMIT!"
Whoa. Gordon Pym has always been a relatively cool-as-a-cucumber under pressure kinda guy. Hearing him this flustered is...well, unsettling. And worrying.
"Well, what the fuck am I supposed to do, now, huh? Just sit here and wait till this nobody comes knocking on my door? Then what do I fuckin' do, huh?!"
Mr. Pym sighs deeply, "Let me think, Luciano. I--never mind. We'll work on something. He might try to contact you again. My advice is this: stonewall him as much as you possibly can. Use those childish tricks of yours if you have to."
"Oh, yeah, sure. Easier said than done! I need a fucking solution- make up your damn mind, Gordo! I wanna talk to whoever's in charge of bumping this bozo off, not listen to you bitch and moan all fuckin' day!"
Gordon scoffs, "Yeah, fat chance, Luciano. I'm keeping you away from him for YOUR OWN good; trust me on this. Either way, we'll get this sorted out, Luciano. Alright?"
Luciano sniffs and huffs, "I just want to see this Markham's guy body in a fucking river...or in a suitcase, all chopped up."
"Hm. You sound hung over."
LDJ scratches the back of his neck, "Yeah, you uh...know any good cures, pick-me-ups, that sort of shit?"
Gordon pointedly responds, "I don't drink that much, and I most certainly don't do drugs like you kids do, Luciano. You're on your own for this one. I'm your fixer and your attorney, not your fucking babysitter."
Luciano's lips curl and he grumbles, "Fuck you, then. Just get it done. That's the only reason why I keep you around, y'know? That, and my dad would lose his shit if he heard I...let you go."
(Gordon's the type of guy who knows where all the bodies are buried...and who put 'em there).
"Hmm. Talk to him sometime, Luciano. He'd be...pleased to know that his son is making something of himself. Markham Reed's a...temporary setback, one that we'll deal with soon enough. Don't you worry, kid."
LDJ rolls his eyes, "Sure, yeah, I'll...talk to the old man...when I feel like it. I was thinking of paying my mom's grave a visit, y'know?"
"Hm. Sure, go ahead. Do that. Goodbye, Luciano. I'll call you with more details when I've got some. Until then, STONEWALL."
Gordon hangs up. His tone wasn't exactly the best, but LDJ was used to hearing the fixer's displeasure.
Luciano looks around his place. It's trashed. Most of the party attendees have already buggered off. A few of them, mainly women in various stages of undress, still linger. They're either asleep, drunk, or high as kites. It's not a pretty sight, to say the least.
A few bottles of liquor and assorted drugs lie strewn about the floor. There are beer cans and cigarette buds scattered everywhere, and there's even a few used condoms lying next to the dustbin instead of inside it.
The whole house reeks of sweat, soft drinks, and alcohol. Somebody passed out and threw up on the carpet in the living room. The vomit is...oddly colorful.
Ew.
Luciano looks around his house and shrugs indifferently, "Eh, I'll just hire the usual to come clean it up. No problem-o. HEY, PAUL?!"
Where is Paul "P-Money" Cho?
There's some snorting, shuffling, and groaning coming from the bathroom. Paul stumbles out, and the state of him is...less than ideal.
Paul Cho is wearing nothing but boxers with rocket ships and a pair of fuzzy slippers. His hair's sticking out in a 100 different directions and his eyes are red and watery.
There's some white powder stuck to his cheeks and his forehead, and the rest of his face is flushed and glistening. There's a tie that's tied around his forehead.
Wow.
He's swaying and stumbling, and his eyes are rolling about wildly. The lad is absolutely smashed. His expression is...difficult to describe. He loudly clears his throat a few times and shakes his head repeatedly, like a dog trying to shake the rainwater off.
Paul is clearly having a bit of trouble keeping himself upright. He stumbles to the floor and throws his head back, dreamily humming and sighing.
"You OK?" LDJ callously asks, looking down at his best friend with little to no concern.
Paul looks up and nods enthusiastically. His head lolls about loosely. He mumbles some more incoherent noises and waves his hands about weakly.
Luciano rolls his eyes, "Great. You're high and I'm still hung over. Go clean yourself up, you look like shit. I'll call somebody to take care of this mess, OK?"
Paul manages to ask, "What's the plan...today?"
"I was thinking of going to my mom's grave, y'know, to talk to her, pay my respects, tell her how much money I made last night. That sorta thing."
Paul tries to nod, but his head just lolls about uselessly. The blasted guy can't even move.
"I...I'll get dressed...where's my...ugh--"
After getting dressed...
Paul sniffs up some leftover cocaine. It helps him focus, he says. The line of coke is oh-so helpful. He bends down and sniffs some more, clearing out a long line in the process.
He snorts loudly, and his eyes widen. Paul stands up and slams his hands against the walls a few times.
Paul looks down at the remnants of white powder and roars like a beast.
"YEAH! THAT'S THE SHIT! FUCK YEAAAAAAAAH! WHOOOOO!"
Luciano chuckles, "You fuckin' mook, you fuckin' dope fiend. Marco's dump, tonight, right? We gotta keep that stash of yours full. If not, then...you're gonna get antsy. And I don't like that; I don't need that right now."
Paul nods. He's still riding the high. It's the morning, and the sun's shining, but he's got the cocaine's energy and strength coursing through his body.
After a long ride through the ceaseless traffic...
LDJ and P-Money are at the city cemetery. It overlooks the rest of the city. A gentle breeze is blowing at this altitude, but it's still warm. The grass on the ground is green and well-maintained.
The 2 guys are standing by Jennifer Hearst's gravestone. It's quite scuffed and worn out after all these years. For whatever reason, Luciano Sr. was pretty insistent on burying the mother of his son as soon as possible.
Luciano Jr. clasps his hands in front of him. His otherwise smug and carefree expression softens into something a little...pensive and sad.
Luciano Junior sighs and shakes his head slowly. He's not one to get choked up, but he begins, "Hey, mom. It's me."
His voice breaks, "Luciano. Donovan. Err...Junior. Your son, y'know? Yeah, so, uhh...I'm sorry I didn't visit sooner. Been a little...busy."
P-Money is twitchy as hell. He's constantly rubbing his nose, making low grunting noises, and his eyes are darting about like crazy.
Luciano twitches, "You uh...remember Paul Cho, right? Asian guy? My best friend? He's here, too--"
Paul starts to jog on the spot and mumbles something incoherent. His pupils are dilated, and he's sweating a lot.
Luciano snaps at his best bud, "WOULD YOU FUCKIN' SIT STILL FOR A GODDAMN MINUTE?!"
Paul stops and gasps, "S--Sorry. Just...the uh..."
"Just the what, huh?! You already had a bump in the car! Lemme talk to my mom, alright?!"
Paul lowers his head and grumbles, "Hmph. Fine."
Luciano sighs, shakes his head, and continues, "I don't know if you're watching, or listening, or whatever the fuck, but I've been doing alright. Heh, I've been doing a lot more than...alright, actually."
He directs his gaze skywards, "I got a sweet deal going with some retarded homeless chick who's good with numbers. I'm making mad money, mom. I'm doing a lot of dope things, y'know. Like, a--a lot."
He adds, "I've been doing things my way. You remember my old man, right? He's old now, still fucking every broad that crosses his vision like he's 20, but I guess that's always been dad. Heh."
P-Money starts twitching again.
Luciano growls, "Dude, you better--"
"It's fine, I'm fine, it's...just the shakes, man. J--just the shakes. Brrrr."
LDJ clicks his tongue and continues, "I um...made a helluva bet yesterday. They never believed in me; none of them did, but I fuckin' showed 'em all who's boss. Oh, marone, you should have seen the looks on their faces. Price-less!"
Paul sniffs and rubs his nose.
Luciano glances at him but decides to ignore him.
"I made a fuckton of cash, mom. I do--don't even know what I'm gonna do with it all. Paul?"
"Hmm?"
"What are we gonna do with all that dough?"
Paul shrugs, "We need someone to manage it for us, man. Plus, the investors will be wanting their cuts. We should talk about it some more."
LDJ nods, "See, mom? That's why he's the brains of the operation."
Paul's eyebrows shoot up, "Uh-huh. Yeah, we're both the brains here, actually, err...Miss Hearst."
Luciano turns back to the gravestone and says, "So, as you can see, we've been busy, mom. I've been busy. I've been making a name for myself, y'know. Dad was right. This is a cutthroat game, and you gotta be ruthless to make it in the end. I'm ruthless."
Paul chimes in, "I'm ruthless, too!"
Luciano Jr. lightly chuckles, "Yeah, we're the future, mom, y'know. We're new money. Dad and his crowd, they're old money. We've got the drive, the vision, and the balls. They don't. All they do is bitch and moan and complain, while we're out there, making connections, closing fuckin' deals, and getting shit done."
Paul cheers on, "YEAH! That's us! Always getting shit done! We're unstoppable!"
"Exactly. I'm the prince of Flimont City. The only way to go is up, mom. I'm not gonna be happy until I'm sitting on top of the world, crowned king of the whole goddamn place. And after that, we're taking it to the next level, y'know? The whole shebang. I want the whole shebang."
Paul rubs his hands together, "Mm-hmm, the whole shebang."
"Hm, yeah, so that's us? Uh...how are you doing? Can you, like, hear me? Are you dead dead or what?"
Paul scratches his head and says, "Uhhh, I'm pretty sure your mom's gone, man. There's no such thing as ghosts."
Luciano's shoulders slump, "You're not a ghost, right, mom? You'd tell us if you was one, though, right? I'd like to believe you're...watching over us boys. Maybe you're watching over me and Paul? And maybe you're talking to dad, telling him to give me and Paul a chance, y'know?"
Paul skeptically mutters, "I doubt that. Why'd she want to have anything to do with your dad? He was...awful to her."
Luciano sighs and agrees, "I know, I know, he was...but she'd understand, right? She's always been the understanding one, y'know. She's--she's not a ghost, is she, Paul?"
Paul shrugs, "If there are ghosts, I don't think they're the kind we're used to. C'mon, let's grab some grub."
"Yeah. Let's. My treat."
LDJ says a last goodbye to his dead mother, but not without making it all about himself and his supposed importance and "awesomeness".
As usual.
Somewhere else in this sunny city...
Mr. Strickland and a few of his lackeys are gathered around an empty casket draped in the American flag. All of them are dressed in military-adjacent garb and uniforms.
They're in a large, open area, and the sky above is a plain shade of blue, with a few white clouds scattered about. Not all of Mr. Strickland's goons are present, only those who bothered to show up.
The rest are either wracked with PTSD, drunk on Chianti, popping OxyContin like mad, or passed out in an alleyway. What does one expect from all these gung-ho army types, anyway?
A bunch of fucking neo-colonial stormtroopers who CHOSE to carry out the agenda of the American Empire are now hollowed-out husks and empty shells who remain unpunished for their numerous war crimes.
Most of them didn't even bother trying to fit into anything resembling normal "civilian life". Mr. Strickland simply swooped in and recruited them to his organization, where they can continue to kill, kill, kill, and kill some more.
They're all standing around the casket, backs ramrod straight. 1 of the goons says a prayer, and they all salute the empty casket.
The only reason the casket is empty is because Sheriff Velma and her people managed to recover the exsanguinated body of Ms. Blue and dispose of it...efficiently.
(Let's just leave it at that).
Mr. Strickland is dressed in a Class-A uniform (aka his Dress Uniform). The insignia on his lapel is that of the MACV-SOG.
The other thugs in attendance ready their rifles and fire it into the air, as is custom at such ceremonies.
After the gunfire ceases, Mr. Strickland turns and addresses the small crowd, "Ms. Blue was a great soldier. I will never forget the sacrifices she made for her country, and neither should you."
Everyone present chants, "HOO-AH!" in unison. It's kinda scary.
Mr. Strickland continues, "I would also like to remind everyone here that we're dealing with a sick, twisted individual. He has already managed, somehow, to best 2 of my finest. We have the advantage of numbers, but I would rather not waste resources on a fool's errand. Therefore, we need to change our approach."
Nods and soft mumbles of assent follow.
Mr. Strickland goes on, "This man, this monster, is a coward. Regardless, we'll get him when he does eventually slip up...and we'll make him pay for what he did to my finest soldiers. Am I clear, soldiers?"
More "HOO-AH!" fills the warm air.
Mr. Strickland smiles, "Excellent. You're all dismissed. Pay your final respects and be on your way. Stay in touch, know the security protocols we have in place, and stay sharp, as always."
Ms. Blue was, objectively, a terrible person. Her reign of terror, at least, has come to an end at the fangs and claws of Markham Reed.
She hurt and killed so many innocent people, destroyed so many lives, and did it all with the knowledge and certainty that she was invincible, and that the law wouldn't ever come down on her for her many, many transgressions.
Like many in Mr. Strickland's sicko crew of hired guns, she even believed that what she was doing was patriotic. What's that they say about patriotism being the last refuge of the scoundrel?
Mr. Strickland and his crew, far from the greatest people, have no qualms with murdering anyone they're paid to murder. As long as the check clears, they're more than happy to oblige.
Nobody's off the menu.
Of course, we are civilized savages. It would've been preferable for the likes of Ms. Blue to stand trial for her numerous crimes (whether in America or abroad), but the way things went down was the way that they went down.
And it is simply what it is.
Besides, what court of law would touch these bloodthirsty soldier types?
America has a troop-worship problem, and it's a big part of the reason why that country has such a big problem with violence, particularly committing it against the innocent, the weak, and the helpless.
Their military's truly the worst, and that's where a majority of Mr. Strickland's recruits come from.
The army thug to professional hitter pipeline, if you will. There are also a few ex-cops and mercs thrown in for good measure.
Anyway, the rest of the "ceremony" goes by without any major incident. They stand straight, salute, and vow revenge on the "monster" who brutally killed their sister-in-arms.
Vendetta is on their sick and twisted minds, and they're more than happy to let it fester and take root in the deep, dark recesses of their disturbed psyches.
Mr. Strickland makes a few final remarks before everyone finally departs and goes their own way. The empty casket is eventually lowered into the ground, and everyone goes about their business.
Mr. Strickland orders everyone to stay frosty, check in with him, and stay on alert for anything unusual. He then gets into a car with tinted windows and is driven away.
"We will find you, Markham, and we will make sure you pay. Dearly."
Heh. Without the right tools (stakes, flamethrowers, explosives, etc.), even the best of Mr. Strickland's goons don't stand a chance. That's also why Markham has been so "lucky".
As long as they keep coming at the Baali with their usual conventional weaponry, he'll continue to have the advantage...and he'll continue to add to the pile.
Markham isn't quite sure how many of them there are, and he isn't even sure if he'll be able to handle that many, but it would definitely help to know MORE about what he's up against.
So far, he only has bits and pieces about Mr. Strickland's organization, but it's not enough to form a clear and accurate picture just yet.
The Baali Neonate needs more information, and he knows a few people he can go to for that. For now, however, he's deep in the clutches of his day-long slumber.
The remainer of the day rolls by. The afternoon sun is shining high. The streets are crowded with the usual motorized traffic. Even at this wee hour, cars go to and fro.
A few people are hanging out, loitering on the sidewalk, and a few of them are smoking. Others are eating food from street vendors, talking about random happenings, and just generally doing what ordinary folk usually do on the busy streets.
A hotdog guy is busy cooking up hotdogs for the hungry crowds. Some people are sitting on the sidewalks, looking a little sad, a little tired, a little angry, or just plain old confused.
Ketchup and mustard on some 'dogs, neither or 1 on a few others, and some even bring their own sauce for the 'dogs, because why not?
Hotdog guy's cart is small and is on the cracking sidewalk. A car passes by almost every minute, hitting his face with hot, stinky, and dirty exhaust fumes.
Hotdog guy mumbles, shakes his head, and goes back to serving his hungry customers. Hotdogs leave his hand and cold, hard cash enters it.
There's the occasional coin and/or crumpled up bill. Hell, some of these peeps even give him their credit card, but all he does is gesture to the nearby ATM.
No plastic, only cash, it would seem.
Sunset is fairly unceremonious, and the sky above has this...wonderful pink and purple hue that would make for a lovely photograph. Just don't zoom in to the mess too much.
Flimont City has its fair share of pollution and the powers-that-be (Republicans) have absolutely no interest in addressing (let alone acknowledging) the growing problem and its numerous health effects.
The usual sunset is beautiful, but it's not enough to make people look at the skies and be awed by the sight. It's still just a sunset, after all.
It's not a goddamn supernova or anything. It's not aurora borealis or whatever.
The day is done, and the night has once again taken over the skies. The darkness is everywhere. People are getting ready for the evening, either by going out, eating at a restaurant, or just hanging out.
Many prepare to return from their places of work. As such, traffic builds up along the usual routes. Buses are crowded. Taxis are taking a lot of fares.
The city is a bustling and energetic kinda place, whether that's at 12 AM or 12 PM.
As the sun finally retreats, the Kindred prepare to awaken from their day-sleep. Their bodies twist and turn. Their eyes are closed, but their hearts and minds are slowly coming back to "consciousness". The sluggishness of the day-long slumber is finally fading.
The night has fully taken over the skies, and the darkness is everywhere. People are still going back and forth. The streets are lit by the usual light, whether it's from the streetlamps or the bright-as-sin car headlights.
Music and sound blares from certain buildings.
Mauve Lilac, the troubled Malkavian awakens from her day-sleep. As soon as her eyes pop open, her phone starts ringing. She checks the phone's small screen, but it's blank.
The Malk rubs her eyes and tiredly mutters, "Huh, wha...? How?"
She answers the call, but static and a buzzing noise fills her ears. Mauve's face scrunches in confusion, "Hello?"
More static and a faint, machine-like humming noise fills her ears, and she listens intently. Mauve's face scrunches further.
Mauve shakes her head and is about to end the call when a broken voice comes through, "Mad-el-Steph-son. Soon. Very so-on."
"Huh?? WHO IS THIS?"
There's more static and some more cryptic incoherency before the line cuts off. The caller ID remains blank. Who was that? A prank caller with waaay too much time on their hands?
And, more interestingly, how did they know to call her the moment she awakened from her day-sleep? Was it just lucky coincidence or some something sort of sinister?
Nevertheless, Mauve decides not to dwell on the disturbing issue and instead goes for a quick soak in her bathtub. She can already feel her Hunger beginning to stir and boil in her. She needs to feed. Soon.
Tonight, Luciano promised Mauve that he'd take her to a nice, fancy salon so she can get a makeover. She can get her nails done, her hair styled (colored if she wants), her face made-up, and whatever else she wants.
It'll be her treat. Luciano is, obviously, paying.
It's not the usual thing she's used to, but it's better than nothing. The last time she set foot in a beauty salon was last century, and that was for a simple haircut.
After her bath, she feels better. Her head is clear, and she has a bit more energy. The dark and terrible sensation in the pit of her stomach, however, refuses to subside.
Only blood, fresh and hot, can put that particular fire out.
Mauve Lilac throws on a faded blouse, some low-rise chinos, and a pair of flats. The Seer looks herself over in the mirror and forces a faint smile that doesn't quite reach her eyes.
She grabs her phone, tucks it into her pocket, and heads out the front door of her Haven. She sees a few neighbors, but she's not too close to anyone else here at the Prairie Ridge, so she curtly nods at them and hurries downstairs.
The Malk is hit with some warm city breeze as she exits the building. It's not strong, but it's there alright. The streets are busy and alive. She feels overwhelmed by the sounds and sights.
Bright lights, honking horns, cars, people, smells, people...oh, so many people. It's too much!
The Malk almost rushes back inside, but she stops herself from doing so. She doesn't want to go back in, and she doesn't want to draw any kind of unwanted attention to herself.
As it is, some of her neighbors see her as some kind of "freak goblin". Even though the walls here at the Ridge are thick, Ms. Lilac can make out what people are saying about her.
They're not exactly subtle, some of her neighbors. She can put up with them, as long as they don't lead to a breach of the Masquerade. The last thing she needs, ever, is to be on the run.
Again.
Mauve steadies herself and looks around for someone sufficiently isolated and in a poorly lit corner. A young guy, walking alone with his eyes glued to the ground, catches her eye.
It's her lucky night. He's dressed in plain casuals and has a bag slung over his shoulder. It's dark, so she can't quite make out his features, but it's dark enough for her to do her thing.
She follows him for a little while before he notices and starts walking a bit faster. He looks over his shoulder and picks up the pace. A brief flash of light from a passing car reveals a young boy in his late teens.
Yikes.
Mauve licks her lips and waits for the right moment before following him a little more closely. He's walking a bit faster now, and she's getting more and more hungry.
The Malk walks faster, too, and catches up. She pounces on the lad and bites into his neck. He struggles a bit at first, but soon enough, he's lost in the euphoria of the Kiss.
Mauve only takes what is required from her victim. After licking his deep puncture wound shut, she gently lets his still-breathing body slide down onto the sidewalk.
He'll be fine (at least). Thankfully, no one saw her, but the sound of police sirens coming closer makes Mauve hurry up and get out of there.
Mauve shakes her head, licks her lips again, and goes back up to her Haven on the 3rd floor. She goes back in after greeting a few more of her neighbors and making sure they weren't, in fact, there to invite her to any parties or what have you.
The types here at the Ridge are rather snobby, and Mauve isn't a huge fan of that. She can't wait to get that makeover started. After all, her "benefactor/boss" is paying for it, so why not go all the way?
The golden goose does need some pampering every now and then, especially if those golden eggs are gonna keep being laid.
Still, that phone call. Something about it scratches away at the back of Miss Lilac's mind. She's been feeling out of sorts ever since she rose from her day-sleep, and the ominous phone call and that strange feeling doesn't exactly help matters.
The Malk shrugs it off and looks forward to going to the salon for tonight, however. Still, that feeling, that feeling that things are not quite right lingers in the back of her already-troubled mind.
Let's check in on those 2 wonder boys...
Luciano is driving his best pal over to Marco's drug den. They're stuck in traffic at the moment.
LDJ turns to Paul and asks, "So, what are you thinking? Should we...call him up?"
Paul sniffs and swallows. His pupils are dilated, and he's nodding enthusiastically. He nods a few times and grins, "Yeah, man. A--absolutely. We need somebody to manage our money now and who better than this Jeffrey Epstein guy, huh?"
Luciano lifts his chin, "Mm-hmm. My dad knew him. They were great friends, y'know? They go way back, actually."
Paul scratches the back of his head, "I did some digging into Epstein's uh...financial management firm, 'J. Epstein & Company'. He seems legit, everything checks out. He's a solid guy. Our money would be safe in his hands."
"Mm-hmm. It better be. Yeah, we should call up Jeffrey sometime this week, set up a meeting, and have him take a look at our portfolio."
"Right. He should know what he's doing, and he should be able to sort it out for us, too."
Luciano drums his fingers on the steering wheel and muses, "Definitely. I wonder if he remembers me. I remember him coming by a lot back when I was a kid. He and dad used to go out on these long 'business trips', and I used to stay with the nanny or whoever. The first time he came, he gave me some cool toy or whatever, I think."
"Uh-huh. Yeah, and...?"
"And what? All I remember is how my dad would REALLY look forward to going with him, man. Heh, it was kinda funny. He had that...excited look on his face, y'know? Sometimes, they'd even be gone for days!"
Paul scratches his head again and offers, "Oh, yeah, right, right. Maybe it was some kinda midlife crisis thing? Guys hit a certain age, and their minds start thinking about...y'know, different stuff."
LDJ chuckles, "Haha! Yeah. Let's hope that our midlife crisis involves a ton of hot broads, a big place in the Bahamas, and a few million stashed away somewhere, snug as a fuckin' bug."
Paul smirks, "Oh, absolutely."
LDJ shoots a look at his friend, "And maybe your own goddamn coke factory. Seriously, with the amount of white shit you stuff up in your nose, how the fuck do even get a hard-on, you fuckin' mook?"
P-Money shrugs and plainly states, "There's this, like, weird old hippy dude at a gas station and he TOTALLY swears by these pills all the way from...um...Jamaica."
(In reality, they're just sugar pills sold to him by a mischievous Malkavian with nothing better to do.)
Luciano snickers, "OK, you do you...you fuckin' dope fiend."
Paul scoffs lightly and rolls his eyes, "Oh, c'mon. You know I need it, man! I--I'm a high-functioning addict, OK?! I can't stop. Not until I hit that fucking jackpot. I gotta have my hits, and I gotta have 'em on the regular, man."
Luciano Junior lightly laughs, "Oh, man, I know. I know. I'm fine with it, so long as you don't screw the pooch or sink the ship, you feel me?"
Paul nods, "Yeah, absolutely. I'm loyal to you, Luciano. To the very fucking end. Y--You're loyal to me, too, r--right?" There's an expectant look written all over his face.
LDJ turns to him and half-heartedly replies, "I'm loyal. I'm loyal."
Paul exhales a large sigh of relief, "Oh, thanks, man. We--we uh...we're really here, huh? On our way to the top, huh?"
An hour later...
Luciano waded through traffic and eventually stops in front of Marco's drug den. There's a lot of people inside and outside. Some are hunched over and about to shoot up, while others are busy prepping some cheap stuff near a Bunsen burner.
A few of them are dancing around to nonexistent music, and the air is thick with the smell of sweat and watered-down booze.
Luciano grimaces in disgust as he and Paul are ushered into the den proper. Luciano steps over someone who's passed out and drooling all over the floor.
The guy who ushered the duo in says, "Wait here. Marco will be with you shortly."
3 minutes later...
Marco emerges from a room, a cocksure and all-knowing smirk on his face. He walks up to the duo and stretches a hand, which Paul immediately grabs and frantically shakes.
He is dressed in a black t-shirt with the graphic of lips popping a multi-colored pill. His baggy shorts look new and the bucket hat on his head is a fresh, crisp shade of white.
Marco exclaims, "Ah, Mr. Cho! My favorite customer! I didn't expect to see you back here so soon. You really ARE a cocaine vacuum cleaner, huh?"
Paul nervously laughs and fiddles with his nose, "Ah haha, y--yeah, well, I...uhh..."
LDJ scoffs, "Hey, Marco, go and get the shit for my friend so we can get outta this dump. The sooner, the fuckin' better."
Marco smiles and opens his arms wide, "Oh, come now, Mr. Donovan. There's no need to be rude to an honest businessman...in his place of business. Hey, Yumi?!"
Yumi emerges from another manky corner of this unfortunate place. Her cheeks look hollow, and she looks like she's lost some weight over these past few days.
She's got her usual double bun (aka space bun) hairstyle and a dirty button-down shirt. She looks like she hasn't eaten or slept in days, poor lass.
Yumi sighs deeply and approaches Marco, "Y--Yeah?" She stands way too close to him.
Marco looks at Paul and asks, "The usual, Mr. Cho? Or have you changed your mind?"
The drug dealer slimily asks, "How about some Peruvian white, hmm? Fresh shipment. It's powerful stuff, Mr. Cho. Oooof, powerful."
Paul shakes his head, "N--No thanks. Just...just the usual. A pound of cocaine and--and make sure it's a pound this time. The neighbor's kid, she--she's like me, a fucking vacuum cleaner, y'know? So, make sure it's a full pound. I--I can't have any mistakes, alright?"
Marco grins, "Yeah, I understand. Hey, Yumi, go and get us some drinks...and try not to spill 'em all over my fucking floor this time, OK?"
Yumi bows her head and briskly walks away, "Y--Yes, Marco."
"You're the best, Yumi. You're my girl, baby."
Yumi says nothing. She just gets a bottle of booze, pours it into shot glasses, and walks back, as asked. Her hands are shaking as she sets the tray down on the center table.
Marco grabs a shot glass and says, "Go and check on the kid in the back for me."
"Sure thing, boss."
Luciano brusquely asks, "Jesus. You got fucking kids over here?!"
Marco smoothly claps back, "Hey, I'm always looking to hook a brother...or a sister up. I ain't turning down anybody looking to score, you feel me?"
Paul takes a shot glass and downs the booze. He winces at how potent it is. He doesn't mind the burn, though.
He quickly shakes his head and slams the glass back on the tray. Marco chuckles as he takes another shot.
Marco claps his hands together, "Right, right. Lemme show you 2 rich cats something."
Luciano puts his hands in his pockets, "Show us the fuckin' product so we can get outta this dump."
Marco slyly smiles, "Goodness takes time, and I wanna make sure that all of my customers get the best, and nothing but the best. I wanna make sure that Mr. Cho here gets the best deal. Now, lemme show you something."
He takes them over to a small, dimly lit room with moldy furniture and an unmade bed. An unplugged TV is humming and flickering with static.
Marco grins and gestures to a young boy rocking back and forth. He looks blasted out of his senses and there are needle marks all over his arms. He's definitely under 18.
He's wearing a white button-down shirt and a pair of navy-blue pants. His curly hair's a mess, and his eyes are rolling around his head like crazy.
"Jesus H. I want some of that Jesus H. Gimme...gimme that Jesus H."
He rocks back and forth and doesn't even acknowledge the presence of the trio looking down on his pitiful form. He's babbling some more about that "Jesus H". His lips are trembling, and he blinks way too much.
Paul asks, "What the hell is wrong with him? Who even is this kid?"
Marco has his arms out wide when he boasts, "My greatest catch this whole fucking year. This right here is the son of the chief of police, y'know, that same macho asshole who's on the TV, threatening to turn the city into a giant jailcell, or some shit. Hahahahaha!"
Marco smugly adds, "Kid came here to get away from that wannabe-action-movie-star, batshit crazy dad of his. You see the kid's dad on the TV, right? Making threats, acting all tough and macho and shit?"
The drug dealer ducks down and puts his hand around the kid's slumped shoulders, "He came here, to me, to get away from his crazy dad, you hear? My number 1 customer!"
Paul almost yells out, "HEY! I thought I was your number 1 customer!"
Marco shrugs and sways from side to side, "Ehhh, you've been moved down to number 2, but that's still a lot of cash, am I right, Mr. Cho? Don't get mad at me. It's all about priorities, y'know?"
Luciano folds his arms and rolls his eyes, "Is there a point to all this? If anyone finds out you've got the police chief's son shooting up--"
Marco lifts a finger, "Ah, ah, ah, ah. I run a tight ship, Mr. Donovan. Besides, the amount of fucking cops I have as customers is...quite frankly, kind of ridiculous, but hey, that's good for me and it's good for my business. Haha! We're all here to make money, right?"
Luciano nods a little, "Yeah. We are."
Paul looks around and starts to get a little agitated, "Where's my coke, Marco? Like, this is all well and good, but I--I need my shit, man!" His eyes are wide with sheer desperation, and his pupils are blown out.
Marco coolly replies, "OK, OK, relax, Mr. Cho. You know me. I keep my customers happy, and I always get the job done in the end. I just wanted to show you rich cats my latest- and greatest- catch."
The son of the police chief mumbles, "You--you're a real good friend to me, Marco. My o--only friend, actually. I want some more Jesus H. Please. I need it. Dude, I need it. I need it so badly."
Marco smiles widely, "Of course. We can put it on your tab. I'll be right back with the good stuff. Hang tight, OK?"
The kid nods repeatedly while Marco ushers Luciano and Paul back to the main room.
Wow, what a sight. That poor kid.
After some more small talk, the pound of blow is in Paul's grubby hands.
Marco kept complaining about how OxyContin is ruining his business and the thought of getting outdone and undercut by a fucking pharmaceutical company really puts a damper on his mood.
Yumi goes off to a corner and swallows a few pills of Oxy that she managed to score, now that she acts as a "courier" for Marco. It relieves the pain in her joints, and she slumps down the wall and passes out.
Her head spins round and round, like a merry-go-round. She feels high and in a state of quasi-euphoric bliss as the Oxy takes hold.
Damn.
On the way back to the car, Luciano grumbles, "I hate this fuckin' place."
Paul gets in and closes the door, clutching his blow with a death grip, "Yeah, man. I--I know what you mean, but I dunno where else to go for my--my stuff. Marco's a slimy son of a bitch, but he's a slimy son of a bitch who knows his shit. I dunno who else to trust, y'know?"
LDJ sighs, "Yeah, I get you, I get you, just don't make this a regular thing. Try to ration out your happy dust. And what's this I hear about you giving this shit to the neighbor's kid?"
Paul shakily chuckles, "Ah, man, that kid. She--she's hooked, man. It was just a bump at first, but she soaks it up like a fucking sponge, man!"
Mr. Cho shudders and adds, "She kinda reminds me of me. She's really hungry for a fix."
Luciano starts up his car, "Hmm." The engine roars to life and the duo roll out of this den of misery and sadness.
As the duo zoom away into the dark night, the son of the chief of police is struggling to inject himself. He's talking to himself and making weird noises.
Marco ducks in front of him and takes the needle, "Here, kid. Lemme help you out. You know, we got some special stuff right here. I'm gonna help you out with the Jesus H, OK? We'll be good friends, me and you."
He sticks the needle straight into the kid's arm. The young boy winces and throws his head back. His head rolls around, like spinning plates. The kid's practically being ferried over to cloud cuckoo land.
If only for a few moments.
His body feels like it's floating down a muddy river. All of his sorrows, the pressures, his crazy overbearing father, his troubles, the pain, it's all washed away...just a bit. Just momentarily.
His head is spinning, his mind is blanking out, and everything is blissfully dark and quiet.
The son of the demagogic chief of police, shooting up Jesus H at a drug den. If anyone ever found out...nothing much would happen. The kid would probably get (violently) beaten by his very violent father, but that's not exactly new (or news, for that matter).
(Why do you think the boy's here in the drug den, in the first place?)
The story itself would be surreptitiously covered up, and no outlet would ever run with it in a million years; they'd rather focus their attention elsewhere.
While daddy makes threatening speeches to the people of Flimont City, the boy is here...being cut to shreds.
The beauty salon itself is located on Beaumont Boulevard, a right posh place. It's wide, lit up, and as spacious as a mini mall. There's a big window on the front, and it's bright inside. Lots of makeup, jewelry, and other sundries.
Pretty faces are on display, and the air smells faintly of imported hairspray.
It's a unisex salon and one must usually make an appointment weeks in advance to even have the permission to breathe its air.
However, Luciano "knows a guy" who knows a gal who knows another gal, who happens to be the owner of this joint and the one running the show.
She's also a former classmate of his, so LDJ leveraged his connections to get an immediate appointment for his golden goose tonight.
Luciano and Paul are standing outside the salon. There isn't much traffic nearby. Beaumont Boulevard is oddly...different from the rest of Flimont City; the sidewalks are wide and there aren't many cars.
There are some family-owned businesses here and there, but it's mostly just cozy. The streets are quiet, and most people have retired for the evening.
Even the air around here feels lighter and there's no godawful stench of petrol, exhaust fumes, and other such unpleasant things. It's definitely a step-up from the rest of Flimont City (in many ways).
F-City does have a significant French-speaking population, but the language barrier ("Do you speak American?!") and the cultural differences are what keeps most outsiders away. It's a 2-way street in that regard.
Luciano stops to gawk at the various pretty (by early Y2K standards) faces that are displayed in the salon windows. He's feeling a little shy, for some reason, and is starting to second guess this whole thing.
He's not the kind of guy who's used to hanging out with this many girls. Even Paul is getting...cooties?
Paul remarks, "Wow, they uh...look intimidating, huh?"
Luciano shrugs, "Eh, broads are broads, man."
Paul nods and agrees, "You're right. Hey, where's Mauve?"
Poor Mauve has been struggling with the car door. Someone must have inadvertently engaged the child-safety locks, so Ms. Lilac is hopelessly pulling and pulling at the door, trying to pry it open.
The Malk sighs in frustration and continues in her fruitless endeavor.
Luciano turns around, points, and laughs at her like a little child witnessing something funny, "She's, uh, having a bit of a...problem, there. Hahaha!"
Paul guffaws and says, "Idiot savant. She can fuck with the numbers, but she can't even get a fucking door open. Hmph, retard."
Luciano clicks on his car remote thing, and the lock disengages with a smooth clicking sound.
Mauve exhales in relief, gathers her scattered composure, checks herself through the rearview mirror, and steps out of the car.
The 3 of them are now standing in front of the salon. The streetlamp is directly above the 3 of them, and the yellow-white light is shining on them like a spotlight.
The cobblestone sidewalk is relatively clean and a little shiny. A few gum wrappers and other trash are in the bin (where they belong), and the rest of neighborhood is otherwise clean and quiet.
Mauve cranes her neck and takes in the sights, "Wow. Am I...are we even in Flimont City anymore?"
Luciano narrows his eyes at her, "What's wrong with where we are, huh? You know how much I pay for your ass up at the fuckin' Prairie Ridge, huh?"
Mauve gulps, "S--Sorry, Mr. Donovan. I was just..."
"Just what? You were just thinking aloud, is that it? Well, don't. I pay you to do 1 thing and 1 thing only, which is...?"
Mauve nods and shakily answers, "To be the good golden goose, laying those golden eggs."
"Exactly!"
Paul shakes his head and fixes a bitterly contemptuous gaze on the Malkavian, "She's not worth all the money you're paying her, man. I told you so, and I told you many goddamn times. She's too good for a classy place like the Ridge. Pfft."
Luciano Junior scoffs, "Yeah, I know that, but it's also a place that nobody comes looking by, y'know? She's safe up there, and she understands what that means in this arrangement of ours, right?"
Paul rolls his eyes, "Fine. Whatever. I'm not gonna get into it, but let's just get her the fuck in."
Mauve takes all the insults and the snide comments, "I--I understand fully what we do. I am...grateful for this opportunity to be uhm...working alongside both of Flimont City's greatest--"
Paul scoffs and walks off.
Luciano, never the type of buster to turn down effusive praise being heaped on him, grins and silently motions for her to finish her sentence.
She's not even sure what she was going to say. It's been a long time since she's had a conversation, and the last thing she wants now is to run afoul of the man paying for the roof over her head, of all things.
Mauve timidly finishes, "--gr--greatest financial whiz kids of--of the 21st century."
Luciano soaks up the comment and claps his hands together, "Heh heh! Aww, see? There's a good girl who knows where her place is. You're learning. You're learning."
Paul scoffs, "Come on. Let's get inside. It's cold, and I wanna look around this place."
At that moment, a small group of Vietnamese women (who work at the salon) exit through the front doors and smile at the trio as they go on their merry way.
(They're speaking Vietnamese amongst each other).
They are dressed in casual and stylish clothing, and they're all wearing bright and shiny lipsticks. There's a faint smell of hairspray, too. Their hair and makeup are quite on-point.
Luciano lightly smacks Paul's arm and remarks, "Hey, look, Paul, it's your people."
Paul's face twists in mild annoyance, "My people? What the fuck are you even talking about, man? I'm half-Korean, not Vietnamese!"
The Donovan heir jabs a thumb at the retreating group and snidely comments, "Eh, you all look the same to me."
Paul rolls his eyes and hurries inside the salon while Luciano snickers like the prick that he is. Mauve's face is a total blank slate, as always. She doesn't know how to take any of this, so she simply follows along.
The salon's reception area is brightly lit. It's spacious and smells faintly of fresh flowers and exotic perfumes.
A few customers are here, either getting their hair done or having their makeup professionally touched up. There are some chairs on the side, too, and some pretty people are lounging on them, waiting for their appointments and whatnot.
The receptionist is dressed in a sharp red suit. She looks up from her high desk and takes on a more professional tone when she inquires, "Hi, can I help you with something?"
Luciano smiles, "Oh, yeah, sure. We uh...we have an appointment, I think. Under Donovan."
The receptionist looks down and flips through a few pages on her clipboard, "Oh, OK, yes, yes. Uh-huh, OK, yes. 1 moment, please."
Luciano spreads his hands out, "I get all the time in the world, and the money, too."
Receptionist chick forces a smile at that and scutters off to the back. The 3 of them wait around and make small talk. Mauve looks at a few magazines on a nearby table, but she's debating whether to grab 1 and read through it.
Luciano paces around, so Mauve moves closer to Paul and lowers her voice, "Why did you let him get away with those remarks, Mr. Cho? He's treating you like--like, like..."
Paul leans back and sighs, "Ah, great, not you now. As far as I'm concerned, you're our fucking employee, and even THAT'S being too charitable. I don't need some retard bum off the streets attempting to play therapist with me, OK?"
Mauve lowers her head and mumbles, "I'd appreciate if--if you and Mr. Donovan stopped calling me that all the time. I--"
Paul scoffs and dismissively waves his hand as he walks off.
Luciano is inspecting more of the pretty pictures of all those chiseled faces and spotless visages. He strokes his chin and talks to himself.
Mauve is now by herself, and she's still deciding on whether to take that magazine or not. She sheepishly grabs a copy and sits down.
It's some sort of celeb gossip mag. There are all sorts of scandalous photos and headlines and such. The Seer absentmindedly flips through the pages.
There's a lot of nonsense about the "rich and famous", and Mauve is just happy to see a few photographs of celebrities she recognized from her time as a mortal.
Some have aged well, others, however, have aged horribly over the years. Everyone's also so disturbingly thin and pale as a sheet. Ah, Y2K.
The 3 of them are sitting in the waiting area, waiting for whoever it is to come and get this makeover started.
Luciano nudges Paul and whispers, "You know, my dad said that sitting in a beauty parlor for too long would make you gay. Is that true? Is that why all these faggots are into this hair and makeup shit?"
Paul shrugs, "I dunno, man. It's like saying sitting in a garage makes you a--a car. Your dad was just trying to be a dick. You know, like always."
Luciano rolls his eyes and mutters, "Pssssh, he was a dick, all right. He was a fuckin' lot of other things, too."
"Hmm, yeah. I don't feel comfortable around here, anyway, so let's just get her set up and I dunno, take a ride, look around this place."
Luciano nods, "Right. Good idea, man. The last thing we need is some fucking faggot looking at us funny and getting ideas."
LDJ stands up and goes over to where Mauve is seated, "So, uh, Miss Lilac, what kind of look are you going for tonight? You into that goth shit? Maybe some kinda teenage girl-next-door kinda look? What's your...vibe, huh?"
Mauve stammers, "Um, um, well, I'm uhm, well, I was thinking more along the lines of...nice?"
Luciano's face scrunches, "'Nice'? The fuck is that supposed to mean? Are you asking me or telling me here?"
Mauve lifts her palms up, "I--I was, like, I haven't fully decided yet, Mr. Donovan. I'd like to see, for myself, what they have on offer."
Luciano smirks and winks, "Yeah, yeah. Don't worry, I'm paying, but don't get wise, ya hear?"
Ms. Lilac dutifully nods, "Of course, sir. I'll keep it within...what is the budget for tonight, anyway?"
Luciano motions to a price list on the wall and states, "This place doesn't charge anything less than 3 digits- even for a simple snip-and-shave. But you're my golden goose, so we can spend how much ever it is we want, so long as you're nice and pretty by the end of it all."
Mauve smiles at that and quietly remarks, "Ah. I see. And thank you. Fo--for all this."
Luciano rubs her back, "Keep up your end of our deal and I'll soon have enough dough to jet you to Paris or Milan or wherever for another makeover. It'll be fun, yeah? You'll see. We're going to be big. I'll make sure of it."
(That's not bound to be the case, of course, but alas, permit the entitled man-child to revel in his delusions of grandiose grandeur).
After a few minutes of tense silence and awkward exchanges, a woman emerges from the back with a wide smile on her face. She's dressed to the nines, wearing a geometric blouse and polka-dotted bellbottom pants.
Her face is expertly made-up, and her brunette hair is done up in a stylish bun.
She's very attractive, and there's a sense of confidence about her. Her blue eyes twinkle and she has a faint but perceptible scent of rosy-jasmine perfume wafting in the air.
That would be none other than the owner/founder of this place, Whitney. She's went to the same expensive private school that Luciano went to.
This place is named, "Whitney's Fab 'n' Glam" in honor of its owner. She's the sole proprietor of this budding enterprise. She's a rising star in this city's business scene and it's just a matter of time before she branches out.
Whitney's voice is deep and melodic, and the way she talks is refined and polished.
She puts a smile on her face and spreads her arms wide, "Oh, my, my, my! Luciano Donovan Junior. Long time, no see, huh?"
(Luciano and Whitney briefly dated while they were still in school, but the former broke it off due to a myriad of reasons).
Regardless, she's moved on and seem to be doing quite well for herself, if the interiors of this place (and the prices, too) are anything to go by.
Luciano has an equally fake smile on his face as he shakes her hand, "Yeah, it's good to see you again, Whitney. Long time. Remember Paul over here?"
Whitney keeps up her smile and nods, "I sure do, hun. Good to see you, Mr. Cho. And...this is?"
Luciano introduces the Malkavian, "This is my friend, Mauve. She's um..."
Mauve steps forward, but avoids eye contact, "Mauve Lilac. I work for Mr. Donovan and...Mr. Cho."
Whitney side-eyes the vampire and politely replies, "Right, right. And in what capacity, if you don't mind me asking?"
The Seer shakily replies, "I--I'm his...his--" the words get stuck in her throat.
Luciano intervenes, "What's with the fuckin' 20 questions, huh? She works for me, that's it. Now, I'm here to give her a little treat, at my expense. I trust you to make her look pretty and keep your fucking lips sealed, all right?"
Whitney's smile stays put, but her eyes betray the fact that she doesn't like being talked to in such a manner, "Of course, Luciano...baby."
She holds her hand out and says, "Why don't you come this way, Ms. Lilac. That's an odd name, hmm?"
Mauve lies and spurts out, "I was raised on a hippy commune."
Whitney snickers, "Of course, of course. Now, follow me, dearie. I'm going to have you looking like a million bucks. No, a billion."
Luciano smirks, "See? That's my girl."
Whitney snaps her fingers and summons a baggy-eyed intern to fetch the proper supplies and what have you. The intern rushes off and is soon back with a pile of towels, bottles of shampoo, hair products, and other stuff.
Whitney shows Mauve a catalogue of makeup and various other cosmetics. Mauve browses the catalog for a minute while Whitney goes back to make small talk with the boys.
Luciano stands at the back and smirks. He's happy and feeling quite good about the way things are going.
Whitney approaches him and asks, "So, how have things been going?"
Luciano lifts his chin and smugly smiles, "What do you think, huh? You see the news lately? You saw my latest win?"
Whitney shakes her head and chuckles lightly, "Oh, you, you. Yes, I did. Congratulations, I suppose. And...Paul, still glued to Luciano's side I see. Hm." Her tone reflects her lack of being impressed with Paul.
Paul rubs the back of his neck and shrugs, "We've got a good deal g--going on here, Whitney."
"I'm sure you do, hun. Is there anything you 2 wonder boys would like to have done while you're here, hmm? Haircuts? Facials? Anything?"
Paul looks over at Mauve, who is still browsing the catalog, "Uh, uh, no, no. I thought this was only for ladies."
Whitney rolls her eyes and sighs, "It's a unisex salon. You...do know what that means, don't you?"
Luciano scratches his head and furrows his brows in confusion, "Ehhh, I don't, no. Paul? What's that mean again?"
Paul faintly groans and replies, "A unisex salon is one that serves men AND women."
"Oh. I didn't know that."
Sheesh.
Whitney clears her throat and looks at her nails, "You can wait here, or you can come back after a while. Either way, your Mauve Lilac is in capable hands."
Luciano nods, "Yeah, OK. We'll be back."
"OK, good. Now, I gotta get back to work, hon."
Luciano nods, "OK, OK. Sure. It was nice catching up, right?"
Whitney queries, "It sure was. Tell me, is this woman your girlfriend, Luciano?"
Luciano replies, "Hey, if she's interested, then I'm totally available."
Whitney cocks her head to the side, "Hm, interesting. Have a nice night, you 2."
With that, Whitney walks back over to Mauve and asks, "So, sweetie, do you know what you want to do today? Have you decided yet?"
Mauve awkwardly points to a picture of Britney Spears on the wall and inquires, "Was she...here? Did she get anything done here? Do you have fancy clientele in this p--place?"
Whitney chuckles, "Haha! No, honey. This place does have fancy clientele, yes, but not her. Not yet. But we do use her appearance as a template of sorts, something for every woman in America to aspire to, a symbol of how to look and act. It's all part of the branding."
"Oh. Right."
"I think she's one of the best-looking women alive, so it's nice to have something of her as a sort of...ideal, a symbol to look up to. It's part of the inspiration for the kind of work we do, y'know?"
"Oh, yes, I suppose that's true, um, what would you suggest?"
This part of the salon is also bright. The white tiled floors are spotless, and the chairs and mirrors are gleaming. A few mannequins are on display, too, and some makeup brushes and tools are on a side table.
Whitney smiles and gestures to a random picture on the catalogue, "Well, I have a few suggestions of my own..."
All of her suggestions majorly suck. She's very much into that conventional thin, blonde, valley girl look, and even though Mauve is pale as a sheet and quite thin already, the idea of having such a "standard" look is kind of upsetting.
Mauve shakes her head and Whitney, not the type who easily takes "no" for an answer, presses her a bit more.
Mauve's brow furrows, and her eyes dart around.
Whitney softly inquires, "So, is there something wrong, hun? You can tell me. Why don't we try--"
The Malkavian lifts her finger, and her lips quaver a little, "Did you hear that?"
Whitney looks around and forces a tight laugh, "No. Hear what? Is everything OK?"
She leans forward, eyes narrowed, "You...look unwell."
Mauve draws away and weirdly smiles, "I'm fine, I'm fine."
Whitney leans closer and scrutinizes the vampire's face, "Are you sure? You look a little pale, and your eyes are sunken. Are you on any kind of medication at the moment."
(Yeah, that "medication" is called blood and it's the only thing keeping her going. Literally the only thing.)
Mauve backs away and stammers, "No, I'm OK. I...yeah, I kinda lost some sleep, actually. Sorry."
Whitney waves her hand, "Oh, please, don't apologize. Working for Luciano Donovan Junior does this to you. I'm sure of it, hmm?"
Mauve shakily nods but remains silent. The Seer is trying to keep a neutral face, but her eyes are darting around like crazy.
After some more fruitless attempts at suggestions for a look, Whitney gives up with a deep and drawn-out sigh.
"I uh...I'm gonna head for a smoke. Don't worry, we'll figure something out."
Mauve feels guilty for wasting this woman's time, "I'm sorry. It's just...been a while since I've had this done, and...uh, I'm not sure what would be ideal for me."
Whitney looks at her watch, "It's OK, hon. Really. We'll figure something out. I needed that smoke break anyway. Just wait here."
"OK."
A few minutes pass. Nearby, there are a few other people who are present, but Mauve's mind wanders off into...
...that place. Yikes. Big yikes.
The Malkavian Madness Network is abuzz with activity. There are so many different voices all screaming at the top of their lungs.
(Sometimes, it can be a real fucking mess in here, honestly).
"Little children, all of us."
A woman with a steely voice snarls, "Tongue, all the way down. Lovely, lovely, lovely...!"
"Dreamin' that little dream!"
A man confidently declares to the ethereal void of the Cobweb, "I am a fucking god. I AM a fucking god. I am a fucking god!"
"I hope they got a cool drink of blood down in heaven. Ooooh, I hope they do. Hehehehehehe!"
Yet another person calls out, "Sexy bitches! Sexy bitches all around me! WHOOOOOOOOO!"
"Just tell me! Tell me, what do you want me to say?!"
"Canned meat. Canned murder. Tomorrow's meat, tomorrow's mess."
A male's voice booms, "What, you've never seen a pretty woman get turned into a fucking werewolf before?! Come on, don't be shy!"
"Every-fucking-body gets the jitters! EVERY. FUCKING. BODY."
Mauve's Beast rouses within her. Back in the real world, Mauve collapses onto the floor. The Seer's body spasms on the floor. She feels herself falling into a Torpor.
To the concerned onlooking mortals nearby, it looks like she's having some sort of seizure.
A few people gasp in shock and rush to her.
"Oh my god! Is she OK?! Sh--should we call 911?"
Whitney emerges from the back and looks around, "Oh, hey, I thought I heard some yelling, so I--"
Mauve's eyes pop open and she shoos away the concerned people gathered around her, "Oh, no, no, no. It's OK. I--I'm fine, really. Don't...worry. I'm...I just l--lost control, is all."
Mauve gingerly takes her hands off the floor, "I'm sorry, but I'd like to continue where we left off."
Whitney furrows her brow, "Are you sure about that?"
Mauve's voice is shaky and uncertain, "Yes. I am, Whitney."
Whitney snaps her fingers and whispers something indeterminable into the ear of a passing intern, who soon rushes off.
Whitney takes Mauve's cold hand and leads her to the chair. Mauve obediently follows and sits down.
Whitney is about to ask a few more questions, but the Malkavian's eyes are glazed over and vacant. Her hands are slightly trembling as well.
"What happened back there, hon? You seemed...out of it."
"Nothing."
Whitney leans closer, her breath reeking of nicotine, and softly whispers, "Are you on drugs?"
Mauve recoils and gasps, "Wh--What?!"
Whitney's tone is stern, "Are you on drugs?"
Mauve's hands tremble even more, "No."
Whitney nods, "OK. I see. Fair enough. It doesn't matter, anyway. As long as you don't file frivolous lawsuits against my business, you can keep your secrets but know this: I'm not a fan of druggies, junkies, and the like. So, if you're shooting up anything, or sniffing something, then I suggest you leave my place before you become my enemy, hon."
"..."
Whitney smugly declares, "You don't wanna make an enemy out of me. I'm a force to be reckoned with. Haha. I'll be right back, OK?"
Mauve is silent. Her hands have stopped trembling.
She looks down and notices her reflection on the shiny floor. She looks up, looks around, and looks back at her reflection again.
It isn't long before a woman approaches. She looks a little flustered around the edges, but otherwise, she looks professional and put-together.
This fine woman appears to be in her 30s. She's got long, sturdy, and elegant legs. Her skin is fair and her blonde hair is pulled back.
She's got a warm smile on her angular face, and her eyes are amber in color. She's dressed in a navy-blue blazer with a matching above-knee-length skirt.
Whitney appears behind her and makes the necessary introduction, "This right here is Elise. She's something of an unconventional specialist. I thought you might need someone like her, Mauve."
Elise bows her head, "Hi. Elise at your service."
"Don't be so modest, hon. This woman knows what she's doing, trust me. Mauve." Whitney says her goodbyes and sashays away to take care of some other matters, presumably pertaining to her business.
Elise gives the Lunatic a once-over and has her arms folded, but her expression is soft and sympathetic, unlike Whitney's which was, frankly, cold and judgmental.
The mortal woman smiles and holds out her warm hand, "Mauve...err...Lilac? Is that right?"
Mauve timidly takes the lady's hand and shakes it before pulling her cold hand away, "Yes. Pleased to meet you. Um, thank you for this."
Elise chuckles softly and winces a little at how unnaturally cold Mauve's hand is, "Oooh. Somebody cranked up the A/C again. It must've been Ms. Thuy. Anyway, are you feeling cold?"
Elise's accent has just the hint of Britishness to it. Just a hint, barely noticeable.
Mauve shakes her head and mumbles, "No, no, I'm fine. Really."
The mortal woman nods and smiles warmly, "Of course. So, what kind of a look are you interested in, Miss Lilac? Is it alright if I call you Mauve? I must admit, that is quite a peculiar name, and I've been curious as to the intent behind it."
Mauve fidgets and wrings her hands together, "Um, well, I don't know."
Elise chuckles and remarks, "It's like calling oneself 'Purple Purple'!"
Mauve laughs along and doubles down on her lie, "I was raised on a hippy commune. I never did err...ask about why I was named that."
(Mauve Lilac changed her name after seeing some random band poster while she was fleeing Kansas City).
Elise laughs and playfully shakes her head, "OK, OK. It's fine, I'm not judging you. If anything, it's quite cool, actually."
Mauve's dead eyes light up, "It...is?"
Elise nods, "Yes. It has that certain appeal to it, a certain...uniqueness, if you will. A charm, even. And the fact that you don't know why you're called that is quite interesting, too."
Mauve smiles. The first genuine smile she's given since she came here.
"Ah. Thank you."
Elise's eyes narrow a little, "So, would you like to tell me what's going on here, Mauve? Whitney said you were having 'decision troubles'. It can be daunting. Every person is different, and 1 size doesn't fit all, so to speak. Whitney has trouble understanding that, but I'm not her, so don't worry."
"I'm...not sure what I want. I'm sorry."
Elise gently touches the Seer's arm, "It's OK. I could perhaps make a few suggestions. If that's fine with you?"
"Mm-hmm."
Elise claps her hands together and her expression brightens, "That's the spirit. Don't worry, we'll take it slow and easy, hmm? After all, the night is still young."
"I hope I'm not wasting too much of your time. I'm sure you have other places to be."
Elise lazily waves her hand, "Pfft. It's fine. My girlfriend understands that I have to put work first- Whitney is quite the taskmistress. It is what it is." The last part brings out some disappointment in her voice.
"Oh. I'm sorry to hear that."
Elise's eyes widen in surprise and she smirks, "No, no, no, please. Don't apologize. I'm here, for you. So, come on, tell me. What are your interests? What do you ENJOY doing?"
"I like numbers, I guess. Math. Finance, economics, and the like. I like Pi."
Elise side-eyes the vampire, "Like in apple pie?"
The Mocker shakes her head and responds, "No. Like in Pi. 3.141592--"
Elise chortles and holds out her hands, "OK, OK. I get it. That's an interesting hobby you have, and it's good to see you're still capable of smiling. It's always good to be able to smile, don't you think?"
Mauve blandly replies, "If I had a reason to."
"You...don't feel happy in your current situation? Job issues? House troubles? Relationship problems?"
Mauve shakes her head, "No. Well, actually--maybe, job I guess."
Elise nods, "That's fine, it's fine. You don't have to explain anything to a woman you just met. My girlfriend and I have recently been through a rough patch, and we're currently figuring out our next steps."
"I see. What happened?"
"Flimont City isn't exactly kind to people like...us. So, my girlfriend suggested that we move to somewhere safer, somewhere more open-minded, if you will. But that means that we have to start from the ground up."
Mauve weakly smiles, "Y--You should totally go for it."
Elise faintly chuckles, "Ah, yes. I have been strongly considering it. Ah, never mind. Tonight is about you, the customer, the one being served. Now, I have a few suggestions I'd like to run by you and try out. Any objections?"
"No."
Elise smiles and starts with the face. Mauve's cold face is washed, exfoliated, and moisturized. It has a soothing effect on her dead skin.
Elise then moves on to Mauve's hair. She runs her fingers through Mauve's scraggly brown hair, and her touch is gentle as can be.
"What do you think, Mauve? Some coloring, perhaps? It's your choice, but I strongly believe that strawberry blonde would be suitable for you. I'll be right back."
"Yeah," Mauve smiles and softly mumbles, "Thanks, Elise."
Elise smiles widely and casually walks off to retrieve some hair dyes and stuff like that for the troubled Malkavian.
After a few minutes, she's back with a pile of various hair coloring boxes and whatnot. Mauve stares at the various bottles and tubes of stuff.
"Hmm," the Seer hums, "You don't have, like, those weird colors, like blue and green. Y'know, like all those people on MTV and stuff?"
Elise presses her lips into a thin line and lightly winces, "I'm afraid not. Whitney holds very little of that in the inventory and she keeps on 'forgetting' to place more orders when we ask her. Sorry."
Mauve sighs and shakes her head, "No, it's fine. It's fine."
The Malk pauses for a moment and observes, "Whitney...she's not the greatest boss, huh?"
A comb almost slips out of Elise's hand when that's uttered, "Oh, uh, well, she's someone who takes getting used to, that's for sure."
Elise has a lot of hair coloring stuff, and she goes through a few, demonstrating them on a plastic mannequin doll thing with synthetic hair covering most of its forehead.
She holds up a bottle of strawberry blonde coloring, "So, this is my favorite one, here. It's called 'Trevaleah', and it's great for the everyday woman. It's a recent addition, too, but it fades away after a few washes."
Mauve nods and timidly smiles, "Great. Uh, can I ask you a question, Elise?"
Elise readies a small brush, "Of course, anything. What is it?"
"Does...does my appearance disturb you? At all? Does my presence make you feel...odd?"
Elise furrows her brow, "Disturb me? No, no, not at all, don't be ridiculous."
She leans forward, her voice lowered, "Between me and you, you're a breath of fresh air. Whitney's usual customers are...bitches, but you are a good and decent person, so...so don't be so hard on yourself, OK? I'm not like Whitney and I'm not going to judge you based on your appearance. I'm not her...and I never will be her. Thankfully."
Mauve is put at ease. Her shoulders now loosen-up and she relaxes while the mortal chick works her magic.
"Thank you, Elise."
The mortal woman smiles and gestures for Mauve to put her head back on the chair, "That's what I'm here for, dear. So, how's life, hmm?"
Elise gently runs a comb through the Malkavian's hair. She then straightens it out and asks if she can cut some hair off, to which the Malk declines.
"No. N--No. Please, no cutting."
(Yeah, it doesn't really grow back for vampires).
"Fair enough," Elise sets the sharp and long scissor down with reassuring smile. She then takes out a small bottle of dye and opens it up, "Now, let's do some magic, hmm?"
She works slowly and methodically. Her strokes are smooth and deliberate. She's clearly talented and she has that air of professionalism about her.
The mortal works diligently, all the while chatting with the immortal about her work, life and such. Mauve, being a rather silent creature, enjoys hearing this woman talk. It's nice.
"So, that's how I met my girlfriend. It was...magical, Mauve." Elise dreamily stares off into space for a moment.
"Ah. It sounds so cute." 
"Yes, it was. She's a firebrand, young and full of energy. I love her so much."
Mauve blinks and smiles, "It's...how does it work? A 10-year age gap? Do either of you, like, feel awkward around the other? Or--or do you feel old when you're with her?"
Elise equably states, "We make it work, Mauve. We both love each other, and that's what matters in the end, right?"
"Yeah."
Elise continues applying this strawberry blonde stuff. She's very focused on the task at hand, and she's doing a great job of it, too.
"So, uh, Mauve, what exactly is it that YOU do for a living?"
Mauve evasively answers, "I work, in a private capacity, for 2 guys."
"Oh. Interesting."
"Hm. Yeah." Mauve slightly winces when Elise's hand brushes up against a seemingly sore spot on her head, "Ow."
"Sorry, sorry. Here, oooh. Sorry." Elise rubs the excess dye off with a paper towel and asks if everything's OK. 
The Joker nods her head and lightly smiles, "Yeah. It's just a head bump...I think."
"Ah, I see. Well, it's all done. I'm going to go wash the excess off, and I'll be back in a jiffy. Don't go anywhere!"
Mauve chuckles a little, "Oh, I don't really have anywhere else to go."
Elise's expression softens as she briskly walks off.
It's not long before the mortal returns. She's back with a large, soft, black towel and she places it over Mauve's head. She carefully dries the vampire's hair and has to be mindful not to disturb it too much.
Mauve lightly giggles at how soft the fabric of the towel feels against her cold and dead skin. She smiles and Elise grins as well. The Malkavian is feeling quite at ease. That's nice.
In truth, she hasn't felt this relaxed in a long, LONG time.
Elise suggests a facial. She recommends a cucumber extract and an avocado cream, both of which wonders for the skin (she swears by it, as does her girlfriend!), and it'll help with making Mauve looks less like a walking corpse.
Mauve's hands tremble a little as she nods. Her mind is racing, but her body is quite docile.
Elise rubs some cream on her hands and deftly applies it all over Mauve's cold face.
"You're a lovely young woman, Mauve. Truly."
"Um...thank you. You're not so bad, yourself. Your uh...girlfriend is truly lucky to have someone so caring, so attentive in her life." Mauve winces a little as the mortal's hands are still working on her.
It feels nice, though. Soothing, even. The Cainite is starting to get used to it.
The discussion eventually segues into Elise's economic situation.
"Yeah, she works 3 jobs. She's still struggling to pay off her student loans and whatnot. She's been doing some modeling work, but it's not exactly great pay. I've tried helping her out as best as I can, but...it's hard to make ends meet, especially when--when my own pay is...shit."
"Whoa."
Elise rubs this thick, green substance all over Mauve's face with a little harsh intensity, "Hm. Yeah. We...both need a break from this."
Mauve muses, "I thought this place would pay their employees better. You'd think with the prices they charge, that you'd all be making a killing. It's not fair."
Elise bitterly chuckles, "Oh, well, if only it were that way. Whitney rakes in the dough, and the rest of us...well, we're privileged to even see the crumbs trickling down from the banquet table of the mistress of the manor."
"Hmm." Mauve doesn't respond. Elise's hands are now gently rubbing some of this cucumber stuff on Mauve's forehead and temples.
Elise blows a raspberry and proceeds, "Expenses have also been a lot higher these past few weeks."
"Oh?"
"Hmph. Yeah. My father got hit by a car, but the health insurance company refused to help us out. They even had the gall to say that he stood in front of the moving car and WANTED to be hit. Can you believe that? It's bullshit!"
Mauve softly gasps and exclaims, "What?! No. That's insane. Why would they even suggest that?"
Elise shakes her head and wipes some more stuff onto her hands and begins working on the Seer's cheeks and jawline.
"Hm. So, I had to pay, out-of-pocket, for my father's treatment at the hospital, which was a real fucking mess, mind you. It's cost me a lot, and my girlfriend hasn't had much luck at finding steady work lately."
"I see. I'm sorry to hear that. Truly."
"It's Flimont City, Mauve. There are all the fancy cars, cocktail dinners, and wild parties on 1 end...and the accumulation of sadness, degradation, and hopelessness on the other. I...I'm scared for the future, for myself, for my girlfriend. I...I don't know what to do." Elise's voice is tinged with fear and doubt.
"..."
Elise sighs deeply and shakes her head. She mutters, "I don't even remember the last time I had sex with my girlfriend. Gah! This place is such a goddamned mess."
"Oh."
"I just want to do something, anything. I just want decency in life. I don't want to feel this way, but I just...I need to be strong...for her, for my dad, and for everyone else who relies on me."
Mauve curiously prods, "For Whitney, too?"
Elise's face contorts into a viciously foul sneer, "Don't get me started on her. She's like a parasite. The moment that bitch walks into a room, all of the life is immediately sucked right out of the place. Typical private school princess. Tch."
Mauve is speechless. She doesn't really know what to say, or what to do.
After a long and awkward silence, Elise smiles and reassures the Seer, "It's OK, sweetie. Tonight's your night--"
Elise's phone vibrates in her pocket. Those old flip phones had some strong vibrate capability. Elise stops and reaches into her pocket and pulls out her phone. It's a call from her girlfriend.
She smiles and quietly excuses herself, "Hello, everything OK, love? Yes. OK. Yes, there's some in the fridge. No, that's in the oven. Mm-hmm. Fine. OK. I love you, too. Mwwah!" she makes a kissy sound into the receiver.
She pockets her phone and looks back at Mauve. She's sitting there, eyes wide and unblinking, frozen.
Mauve, out of concern, inquires, "Is everything alright?"
Elise lazily waves her hand, "Ah, yes. It's fine. The apartment that we both share is...starting to show its age, but neither of us have the money for a deposit on a newer, better place, and our current landlord is...not exactly the most likable kind of people."
Mauve clicks her tongue, "That's so sad. The housing situation in this city, it's--"
Elise interjects, "It's awful, Mauve. I see so many homeless encampments on my way back home. It's so sad. My girlfriend volunteers at a soup kitchen and she tells me horror stories that--that defy comprehension. All those poor people, suffering and falling apart through no fault of their own."
She bitterly concludes, her lips quivering, "I--I hate it. I hate everything about it, and I hate the people who either let this happen or stand by and watch as everything falls apart."
Mauve has nothing to say to that. After all, she is in the "employ" of a guy whose dad and his rich buddies have contributed to the many problems of this Domain through their parasitic financial speculations, swindling, ponzi schemes, and what have you.
The kind of folk that look down at people like Mauve and Elise, and the others like them, and think that their lot in (Un)life is just a mere stroke of luck or thanks to some hidden "genius" or prodigy-esque "talent".
After Mauve's hair and face are over with, Elise asks if she would like a mani-pedi.
"It'll do wonders for you. And we have a special deal for the remainder of the week."
(Do they also do claws?)
Mauve shakes her head, "No, it's OK. Thank you. I'm fine with my nails. Thank you."
Elise tilts her head and raises her eyebrow, "Are you sure, dear? OK, how about some nail polish? We have these beautiful brands all the way from Europe, and they're very, very high-end."
"Oh, uh...what colors and shades do you have?"
The mortal woman beams with a smile as she quickly goes to retrieve a whole slew of small nail polish bottles for Mauve to choose from. Mauve's eyes are glazed over as she looks through all of them.
"So, Mauve, how would you describe your ideal look? What do you like?"
Mauve softly whispers, "I just want to disappear."
Elise leans closer, "Hmm, what was that?"
Mauve shakes out of whatever fugue she was just in, "I--I mean, what do you recommend, Elise?"
"I just want to see you happy. It's my job to make you feel like you're special, that you're accepted, and that you're...not alone in these crushing and uncertain times. I just want to see you smile. Is that OK?"
"That's--that's something more than anyone has ever offered me in a long, long time, Elise."
Mauve goes through several different options. Mauve picks varying shades of...get this, mauve and lilac!
Elise chuckles at this and gets to applying the selected colors on Mauve's fingernails. Just the fingernails, only. Mauve doesn't feel comfortable taking her shoes off in this place.
The whole experience is very nice. Mauve is still feeling the pleasant, soothing effects of her facial. She's really enjoying this, and Elise is a very nice, sweet woman.
Very approachable, understanding, and genuine.
They talk some more, and Mauve learns that Elise is 37-years-old, which would make Elise's lover 27-years-old.
"Yes, I know, I'm...'old' by the absurd standards that certain parties burden us with. My girlfriend just graduated from college. She's still learning how to navigate through this world of ours, but I do my best to guide her through it, softly and patiently."
"Oh. That's sweet."
Elise smiles, "She's a very sweet girl. I'm really lucky to have found her."
"I'm sure you are."
Elise nods and sighs, "But our rent is still skyrocketing, the job market looks like a bad slasher flick, the traffic is an unbearable nightmare, and we're still struggling to keep afloat."
Mauve adds to that list of concerns by pointing out, "And the cops have been everywhere since those killings happened."
"Hmph. Yeah, the cops." There's a lot of venom in her voice when mentioning "the cops".
Elise's hands are now on Mauve's pinky finger. She dips the brush into the small bottle of expensive nail polish and starts applying the color, "I don't have the patience for dealing with the police and their antics. I'm not sure if I ever did."
Mauve curiously asks, "Why is that?"
Elise remains laser-focused on applying the stuff, but she answers, "I remember this time, when I was little, how the police broke down the door to the house, screaming and yelling. They dragged my father out of his bed and started q--questioning him--"
Elise's hand slips and a few drops of nail polish splatter on the floor. The Malkavian flinches and winces.
Elise is horrified, "Oh, God, I'm so sorry, I--I'm such a klutz tonight."
"No, no, it's OK. What happened?"
Elise gathers her composure and calmly responds, "They suspected that he was--was responsible for a string of particularly nasty murders in the neighborhood. From what I recall, all the bodies were drained of blood, and they were all missing their heads. Gruesome stuff, honestly."
Mauve is silent. Whatever that was, it was definitely the work of Kindred.
"My father, a sweet and gentle man, was accused of murdering his neighbors. And the worst part was how the police kept beating him, demanding more and more information about what happened. I was little and--and so scared of how they were brutalizing my father, of what they would do to me..."
Elise sniffles and wipes the tears off her face, "After a while, they would let my father go, but only after giving him a warning."
Mauve asks the obvious question, "Why did the cops suspect your dad?"
Elise shrugs, "He was a single man who raised me all on his own after my mother passed away during childbirth. He never remarried or intended to. I was...his everything, and he did his best to make sure that I grew up with a roof over my head and a good education. I will forever be grateful to him. Always."
The Malkavian repeats her query.
Elise sighs deeply, "He was a rather...well-built man, you see. Very strong and muscular. Whoever killed those people certainly had to have been very strong. Almost inhumanly so, dare I say."
Elise smiles at her and puts the brush back into the bottle, "That's all I have to say about that. Now, my father is afraid of going out because of what happened to him recently. Are you hungry, Mauve?"
Mauve thinks about it for a moment, "N--No, I'm fine, thanks. I'm sorry about your dad, Elise."
Elise responds, "It's not your fault, it's the fault of those blasted health insurance companies. He barely leaves the house anymore, but I do what I can to bring him his beef jerkies and little munchies that he absolutely can't stop eating."
She turns her head aside and wistfully states, "It's the least I can do for him, considering how much he sacrificed for me."
"Beef jerky is great. It's very salty. Salty is good. I guess."
Elise chuckles and shakes her head, "You're a funny girl, Mauve Lilac. And a very interesting one, too. I've never met a woman like you before. I'm glad that I had the chance to meet you tonight."
Mauve's eyes dart around for a second and she sheepishly replies, "I'm glad, too. It was nice talking to you while you did my hair, face, and um...nails, I guess."
Elise tightly smiles, "It's the least I could do. You're very sweet, Mauve. It's a rarity in this city. Unfortunately, most people these days take refuge in some sort of withdrawn cynicism, a sort of...apathy towards the world around them, and towards people in general, I suppose."
Elise winces at the memory of the cruel and callous cops torturing her beloved father, "There's not enough kindness going around in this world at the moment, and sometimes, I wish there was something that could...well, give that kindness back to the world, if you will."
(Will that alone suffice?)
"I--I hope there is. The milk of human kindness does not flow freely as we thought it did when we were kids."
"A surprisingly astute observation. Yes, anyone above a certain age can conclude that the milk of human kindness is not as free flowing as we'd like for it to be, but--"
Elise turns her attention to the door. Mauve follows suit. Whitney is standing there, her arms folded and her mouth twisted into a wry smirk.
"Oh, hi, Whitney," Elise lamely says.
Whitney rolls her eyes and lazily waves her hand in a flourish, "What a delight to see you're still here, Elise. I thought you'd be finished with...this one by now."
Whitney looks over at Mauve and can hardly contain her disdain for the makeover that Elise has meticulously performed on the Seer.
She shakes her head and remarks, "How...average. Hm, I suppose that's in vogue these days. No taste whatsoever."
She looks at the picture of Britney Spears on the wall and continues, "Why can't we all be like her, I wonder?"
Elise puts her hand on her hip and claps back, "Because she looks like a stick and has no personality o--or substance whatsoever."
Whitney rolls her eyes, "That's your opinion, darling. Now finish up with this one and get ready for a long night ahead."
Elise stifles a groan, "Yes. Gimme a minute or 2. I'm just wrapping up with Mauve--Miss Lilac over here."
Whitney walks off and calls out, "90 seconds! Tick-tick, hun! Tick-tick!"
Elise sighs deeply and shakes her head, "Bitch. That woman is a true piece of work, Mauve."
"Why's she so crazy about Britney Spears?"
Elise shrugs and softly says, "As someone working in the beauty industry, I can confidently tell you that beauty standards as they are, are nothing but rubbish pushing people to unhealthy extremes and to the brink of madness."
She shakes her head, "If people would just wake up and realize that their bodies are perfectly fine the way they are, and that perfection is but an illusion, then things would be different."
"Mm-hmm."
"I even have to convince my girlfriend that eating a simple sandwich is not going to turn her into a blob monster. God only knows she needs her energy, what with the 3 fucking jobs that she works just to make ends meet."
"Ah. That's...unfortunate."
"Yeah. It is. She's a sweet girl. A good, decent girl who's being lied to by snakes in fancy suits and by sniveling assholes who have their hands deep in the ass cracks of the rich and powerful."
(That's...quite the image).
"..."
"Hm. It's tough, but I see it as a responsibility of mine."
"A responsibility??"
Elise nods, "Yes. I feel responsible for the young woman I deeply love with all my heart. I can't imagine my life without her, and I refuse to accept the way things are around here. So, I...I--"
Tears, clear and warm, stream down her face.
Mauve stands up and awkwardly rubs Elise's back, "Shh. Shh. Don't cry. It's alright. You're such a great woman, working so hard to help those who need it, those who deserve it."
Elise smiles through her tears, "Thank you. You're truly a sweet girl, Mauve."
The Seer blushes a little and smiles, "Mm-hmm. I try, Elise. But I dunno if I--never mind. Shh, easy. Why don't you take off work and go...be with her tonight?"
Elise bitterly laughs at that suggestion, "Whitney will fire me on the spot, Mauve. You don't know what it's like, working for a tyrant who badmouths you, embarrasses you in front of others, and makes snide comments about your appearance and sexuality behind your back."
Mauve's eyes widen a little, "She...she does that? I--I actually do kinda know what it's like, working for an--an asshole, y'know?"
Elise is quick to respond, "Oh, you do?"
Mauve looks around and timidly nods, "Yeah. He calls me names and insults my appearance, my fashion sense, the clothes that I wear, and stuff like that. It's only been 2 months since I started with him, but I feel like it's been years, sometimes."
"He's...abusive to you?"
Mauve softly and evasively responds, "Well, no. Well, not in THAT way, of course. I can defend myself if it comes to that, which I'm hoping it doesn't."
(The control that Luciano exerts over Mauve is of the economic kind. He took advantage of her unhoused and broke circumstances and thus coerces her into being his golden goose, laying those golden eggs up at the Ridge).
Elise quickly wipes the tears off her face and checks her clothes. She smooths the wrinkles out of her skirt and makes sure her blazer is on straight.
"I'm...sorry to hear that, Mauve."
"Yeah. Well. That's the world we live in, I guess."
"Hm. Do I...look fat to you, Mauve?"
"No? You look normal and healthy. Why??"
Elise sighs and answers, "Whitney. She recommends that I go on a diet that she swears by, but I'm fine, I feel good just the way I am. What do you think, Mauve? Does my outfit look OK on me?"
Mauve is dumbfounded, "Yeah, yeah. You look amazing, actually!"
Elise smirks and naughtily bites her lower lip, "My girlfriend absolutely loves my curves, Whitney on the other hand, she doesn't quite appreciate the way I look. I'm too 'big' and 'curvy' in her eyes, or so she claims."
"I--I'm sorry to hear that, Elise. I guess we both have...bad bosses in common, huh?"
The mortal shakily chuckles, "I guess so, Mauve."
Elise runs her fingers through the Malk's strawberry blonde hair and sighs, "It's fine, don't worry. I do my best to survive through it. I have to, to help my--my father and my girlfriend, whom I love. They both mean the world to me."
The Malkavian gingerly nods, "I understand. I don't wanna keep you. We should keep in touch, right?"
"Absolutely! Are you on MySpace, by any chance?"
Mauve squints in confusion, "What's that?"
"Oh, never mind. Just a sec..." Elise quickly runs off to fetch a slip of paper. She quickly writes down her cellphone number on it and gives it to the Seer.
Mauve reads it and slowly nods her head, "OK, I'll keep in touch."
Elise goes in for a hug. Normally, Mauve would pull back, but she awkwardly allows the hug to happen. Her immortal cold body is pressed up against the warm body of this lovely mortal lass.
Elise then pulls away and looks at the clock, "Oh, shit. I'd love to chat more, but I gotta get going, Mauve. It's been a pleasure and thank you for this?"
"For what?" Mauve shyly asks.
"For not being the usual superficial suburbanite housewife or snobby rich trust-fund chick that usually waltzes in through those doors and starts yapping about their 'chiseled yoga instructor' or whatever, ugh. I'm happy to have met you, someone different for once."
"Me too, Elise. Thank you. Thank you for making me...look nice and pretty, even if it's only for a short while."
"Oh, don't mention it. Everyone deserves to be seen as beautiful, no matter what. Everybody deserves happiness."
"I wish more people thought that way, Elise."
"So do I, Mauve. So do I. Be safe out there, OK?"
Mauve is about to say something when Whitney briskly walks over to her and the mortal.
"OK, cut the verbal foreplay, you 2. Elise, c'mon, it's time." The boss lady's tone leaves absolutely no room for argument.
Elise sighs and rolls her eyes, "I'm coming, Whitney."
Whitney impatiently waits for her employee, "I know, hon. Now, go on, get ready. The bridal party will be here soon. I want good work, by-the-books. No slip-ups. No fuckups. Got it?"
"Yes, Whitney."
Mauve heads back to the reception area and mills around, aimlessly.
After a while, Whitney saunters over, her arms folded across her chest, "What are you still doing here?"
The Malkavian answers, "Uh...just waiting."
Whitney snickers, "You're an 'interesting' girl, to say the least. That's about the only word for it, really..."
As she retreats, she mumbles, "Pitiful creature."
Mauve's enhanced vampiric senses permit her to pick up on that last remark.
Elise is busy gathering some things and tossing some other beauty implements in a small UV sterilization device nearby.
Whitney opines, "Well, well. Mauve is certainly a strange one, isn't she?"
Elise pays no heed and keeps working, "I like her, Whitney. She's...not our usual type of customer, to be sure, but I'd be lying if I said she wasn't a lovely girl. And interesting, too."
"I see. Is she a dyke like you?"
Oh, god.
Elise doesn't dignify that query with an answer.
She quickly takes what she needs and leaves, "Well, I'm done here, Whitney. I'll be going now."
Whitney snorts and smirks, "Good. And don't forget: I write your checks at the end of the month. So, get off your ass and earn your pay, OK? I'm tired of your lazy ass always yapping with the customers."
"I'm--I'm doing my best, Whitney. It's just small-talk, it actually helps us in the long run--"
"This isn't some hip-hop salon in the goddamn 'hood. We have STANDARDS here, Elise, a reputation to maintain. And if you want to keep that job of yours, then you'd better get some goddamn work done around here, you got it? Start pulling your weight around here."
Elise groans and sluggishly replies, "Yes, Whitney. I'll do my best. Now, if you'll excuse me, I need to get the dryers ready...for the thing."
"That's better. Off you go. Tick-tick, darling."
The overworked mortal sighs and walks out the door, muttering obscenities under her breath.
Mauve is lost in her thoughts when she hears a voice that sounds like it's a little bit familiar, almost too much so at this point.
"Mauve!" Luciano loudly calls out from the other side of the room.
"I'm coming, Mr. Donovan."
Paul is waiting in the car. Luciano pulls out his credit card and gives Mauve a look from head to toe.
He grimaces a little, "Um...OK? Are you done, or is there something else you gotta do? When you said makeover, I didn't think you meant...this." He gestures to her body.
Mauve stifles a sigh, "Yes, I'm done. It was a nice makeover. Thank you, Mr. Donovan."
Luciano shrugs and smirks, "Eh, fine. You look like a different woman, actually. Blonde hair, huh?"
"It's strawberry blonde. It goes away after a few washes. It's called 'Trevaleah' and it's great for the everyday woman."
Luciano disinterestedly waves his hand, "Yeah, yeah, everyday woman, blah blah blah. But you're not an everyday woman, Mauve; you're my fuckin' golden goose. Don't bring yourself down to that level, ya hear?"
The Lunatic responds, "But I like it, Mr. Donovan. I strongly feel that this look suits me. It makes me feel good on the inside. I feel...beautiful. I feel refreshed, even!"
"Uh-huh. Yeah. OK, get in the car and wait. I'll pay up. I need to do a little catching up with an old friend."
Mauve gets in the car and sits there, thinking. Paul doesn't comment on Mauve's new(ish) look, which, honestly is better for everyone.
Luciano waits for Whitney to saunter over to him. She has a credit card machine in her hands, a playfully smug expression on her face.
"So, what'll it be, hon?"
"5% tip. No more than that. How much are we even talking here? From what I've seen, you didn't make her look like 1 of those chicks in those dirty videos."
Whitney frowns, "Blame the particular employee for that, Luciano dearie. 5% tip is more of a begrudging concession on my part, really. A way to keep them in their place, satisfied but hungry enough to have the incentive to work harder for me."
"Whatever. OK. Let's see the final number, missy."
Whitney smiles as she announces the final cost for Mauve Lilac's makeover, "$876."
Whoa!
Luciano's eyebrows shoot up and he exclaims, "WHAT?! Seriously, I could've bought the crap and done it at her place for, like, half that fuckin' price, Whitney!"
Whitney shrugs and remains composed when she states, "It's an upscale place in an upscale part of the city, hon. What's that they say about customer being king? Hm, anyway..."
Luciano's got the dosh, so he easily swipes his credit card and doesn't feel too much of a pinch when the money is deducted from his account.
Whitney has a wide and knowing smirk on her face as she tells the guy that his payment has successfully went through.
Luciano shakes his head and smiles back, "Yeah, of course it fuckin' did. I'm loaded and I got an interview tomorrow, actually I got a whole buncha them lining up, waiting to kiss the ring."
Whitney puts the card machine aside, "Oh, really?"
"As real as can be. Even got fuckin' Fox News comin' down to have a nice, little chat with me, heh."
"Well, good luck, hun. It was intriguing, seeing you after all these years. Well, at least we're both successful...in our own way. It would be a travesty if either of us were not, wouldn't it?"
Luciano grins, "Yeah. We're both real fuckin' successes, babe, yeah."
Whitney takes a few steps closer and scrutinizes LDJ's face, eyes narrowed in deep thought, "You haven't changed much, have you? Still the same old Luciano that I used to make out with all those years ago, eh?"
Luciano shrugs and raises his chin, "Of course not. Why the fuck would I? I got great genes, and I age like fine fucking Chianti straight from the old country, you feel me?"
Whitney snorts and coyly giggles, "Oh, yes. I remember those days when we first met. You were this skinny, scrawny, boy, so full of bravado and confidence, but you still had a lot to learn. As a matter of fact, you still do, hun."
Luciano playfully gasps, "You wound me, Whitney. You wound me, baby."
"You'll get over it, dearie. After all what's all that money for, if not to cushion the blow for when we all do inevitably tumble down, hmm?"
Whitney takes a quick look around the place, at the pictures of models, stars, and pretty visages and asks, "So, you're really gonna be some big-time finance mogul, doing...what, exactly?"
Luciano's lip curls up a little, "You got it, baby. It's the future now. Money is king, queen, too. Always has been. Money, it...it tames the beast inside all of us, y'know? Money is love, money is life, money is--is peace. It keeps us safe, too."
Whitney lightly chuckles, "Oh, there's absolutely no disagreement from my end, hun. Money is very powerful. It can buy you the world, can't it?"
"Absolutely, Whitney. Abso-fucking-lutely. They're gonna make movies about me 1 day. Maybe we can get a famous actress to play your part in...'Luciano Donovan: The Movie'."
Whitney snickers and lightly smacks LDJ's shoulder, "Come up with a better name first, hon."
Luciano puts his hands on his hips and declares, "I draw money, women, and respect towards me."
Whitney almost rolls her eyes at that.
Luciano snaps his fingers and clicks his tongue, "That's my motto. I make shit happen. I make things better, I'm a goddamn mover, an unstoppable force of nature. A shaker here to shake shit up."
"Oh, is that right? You're certainly a fascinating man, Luciano. Even after all these years, you've somehow managed to back up your yapping with...results. I'm impressed."
"I know. And, baby, I'm just gettin' fuckin' started--"
Whitney holds up her hand and looks at her fancy watch, "Well, it was fun catching up with you. If I wasn't already engaged, I'd have considered having another go at you."
Luciano's eyes widen, "You got engaged? Who? Who is he? What's his name?"
"I'm not about to disclose that to you, dearie. Let's just say that he is in a similar line of work as you are."
"Oh, yeah? That's nice. I'm happy for you, Whitney. So, uh, we're cool, right? No hard feelings?"
Whitney smiles and softly says, "Of course not, hon. I moved on, and I can only hope that you did, too. Hmm. But alas, I have to return to my post now. Do come back soon, Luciano. You could use a makeover."
She winks at him and sashays off to wherever she needs to be. Luciano lingers around for a moment before getting in his car.
His sigh is long and drawn-out, and he throws his head back, "Oh, marone. What a chick, heh."
Paul is fiddling with his hands and doesn't even look up at Luciano, "She's a piece of work, huh? How was it, seeing her after all these years?"
"Yeah, she's somethin' else. It felt cool, y'know, seeing how far we've both come since then. Good thing that I didn't have a boner back there, haha!"
Paul laughs along, "Yeah, haha!"
LDJ starts his car up and drives off into the dark night, back to Mauve's Haven. She remains quiet throughout the ride back home. Her mind is elsewhere, but she holds herself from drifting off to far lest she wind up back in the Madness Network again.
As the car nears its destination, Mauve looks at herself in the mirror, her hands resting on her lap. Her face has a little color, and her eyes have a little "life" in them.
She admires her strawberry blonde hair and cracks a tiny smile. It's good. It feels better.
The Jester strokes her cheek, and it feels warm, soft, and a little welcoming.
The Lunatic's thoughts drift to the mortal beauty named Elise and her girlfriend. Mauve hopes that they fare well in these trying times, in this cruel and unforgiving city.
The Malkavian silently muses, "If only there was something more that we could do for them, like a miracle or something. I guess that's a little too much to ask. I could try--never mind. Hm."
Her mind is conflicted. She knows that what she's doing for LDJ and P-Money is downright unethical and illegal, but her own situation is just as bad.
She's an unwitting pawn in this grand scheme, and she's stuck in a vicious predicament that she can't seem to get out of.
This is made worse by the fact that Gordon had made her sign all those strict NDAs, along with other forms fully waiving her right to any legal representation of any kind whatsoever.
The stroke of the pen has essentially bound her to her fate.
It's not fair. It's not fair at all, and it's about to get a whole lot...messy in the coming nights. Also, Markham has yet to cross paths with her- that is gonna be interesting!
Her thoughts are interrupted by Paul, who's calling her. She answers, "What is it, Paul?"
Paul growls at her, "It's your fuckin' place, dumbass. The fuck else would it be, Chuck E. Cheese? Now, go, get out. Me and Luciano have other places that we wanna hit tonight."
"Sorry, Mr. Cho. OK. Thanks, and have a nice night."
Paul waves his hand carelessly, "Yeah, sure. Whatever. Idiot savant."
Luciano tells her, "Keep laying those fat ones for me, OK? You look great, by the way."
Mauve faintly smiles, "Oh, thank you, Mr. Donovan. And thank you for taking me for a makeover tonight. I...had fun."
LDJ nods at her, waves goodbye, and zooms off.
Mauve sighs as she opens the door to her apartment and walks in. She throws herself on the couch and shuts her eyes for a moment.
"Ah, what a night."
Indeed. On the back of her mind, Mauve knows that this won't last forever. Let's just say that she...took a certain measure in case things should get even more difficult.
The Seer knows she might stand to lose it all, piece by piece over the next few nights. In this twisted, dark and weird world where the lines between the living and the dead are blurred, there are many fates awaiting those who are unlucky and unfortunate enough to be caught in the crosshairs of some kind of misfortune or ill-fated luck.
Whether it's the coalescing of certain socio-historical processes or a systemic, ongoing process that's been going on for years and years, the fact remains that this is the only reality that she has to contend with.
A small tear of blood escapes Mauve's eye, and it quickly and silently rolls down her cheek. The Malk's troubled mind wanders to a certain memory, a memory of a time long, long ago.
A time when she still drew breath and went by a very different name.
"I'm a reporter with the Kansas City Financial Report, the KCFR! Can you believe that?" Mauve jumped up and down and squealed uncontrollably on that afternoon when the job was officially hers.
Mauve's mother replied, "Oh, sweetie. I'm so proud of you! You've finally got a what you've always wanted, with a better salary, perks, and the opportunity to really make a difference. It's amazing!"
Mauve's father shook his head and hollered into the old rotary phone's receiver, "You deserve this, sweetie. We're proud of you! We're all so proud of...our daughter!"
Mauve giggled and jumped up and down some more, "Aww, thanks, dad! Thanks, mom! This is great, isn't it?"
Mauve's younger sister simply smiled, but she didn't congratulate her older sibling. Not today. She looked so withdrawn and distant.
Mauve's parents looked over at her sister, their eyes narrowed in suspicion.
The father asks, "Is everything alright with you? You've been acting real sour since you came back from school."
Mauve's mother chimed in, "Come on, congratulate your big sister on finally landing the job of her dreams! Come here, Anna! Put that silly doll away!"
Anna groaned and grabbed the phone from her mother, "Hey, Ma--"
The memory cuts off just as Anna was about to mention her big sister's true name, her real name.
Mauve shakes her head, clearing her thoughts.
She takes a deep breath and whispers, "I'm OK, I'm OK. I'm here, in the present. Oh, Anna. What--what happened to you? Oh, god."
Anna was, after all, the young lady who'd go on to Sire Mauve into this world, this world of darkness and strife and secrets. Even now, Mauve vociferously denies Anna being her Sire.
Mauve is reminded of what she saw when she peered into the Madness Network. It's like she's dreaming, but not quite.
She continues to remain in steadfast denial that it was her younger sister who Embraced her all those years ago, thus upending an ordinary, quiet life and throwing it into violent turmoil, blood, and madness.
"No, no, it--it was someone else. Just some random homeless junkie who--who bit me and--and left me to my fate when the--the...it wasn't Anna."
She shakes her head and insists, "It wasn't her! It--it couldn't have been her. Not Anna! NO!"
Anna herself was only 19-years-old when she was Embraced by some random Malkavian Ancilla (vamp who is about 100- to 200-years-old) who was just passing through Kansas City.
But a lot preceded that point, of course. A lot. It all started when Anna got pregnant when she was 15. There was another boy in her class (same age).
They were curious and sex-ed just wasn't covering it all in an adequate manner, so they ended up fooling around behind the bleachers after a football game.
It happens, these things...happen. They were teenagers with hormones out of control. Well, Anna's own parents had rather...mixed reactions to this.
Mauve's family were lower-middle class and semi-conservative. They certainly weren't too pleased that their youngest daughter had got "knocked up" at such a young age.
The mom wanted Anna to keep the baby, while the dad had so internally conflicted, that he struggled to mention the a-word (abortion).
Anna chose to abort the pregnancy a week after she found out, but it was all done in a back alley. After that was done, Anna simply couldn't bring herself to face her parents.
So, the kid ran away from home and fled to where big sister was, Kansas City. Mauve had already begun her new job and was rapidly moving up the ladder, as it were. She was doing well for herself. Very well. And she loved every moment of it.
4 years went by, and Mauve was soon a top-tier reporter for the KCFR.
That was until...Anna showed up at her big sister's doorstep 1 fateful night. Anna looked awful. Her eyes were red and puffy from crying, her hair was a mess, and her clothes were wrinkled and unkempt.
Her face was hollow and pale and her eyes were devoid of any life in them. It was like looking at a ghost.
The worst part was, Mauve didn't recognize her lil sister. She thought that Anna was some hobo who had taken a wrong turn or something.
The Malkavian Fledgling's voice was hoarse when she cried out, "It's me...Anna! Don't you remember me?" She reached for her big sister, but Mauve stepped back.
How did Anna end up like that?
After running away at home, the 15-year-old (and still mortal) Anna soon found herself, through no fault of her own, in the clutches of the Camarilla elite of Kansas City.
She fell in, in with not-so-considerate types. Types with claws...and fangs, really sharp ones. They used her (and abused her, sadly).
Poor Anna was passed around as a Blood Doll amongst the Ivory Tower's more prominent Kindred. Her blood was "sweet and resonant", they claimed.
Anna was "lucky" because she had such good, potent blood running through her veins.
Sometimes the feedings were so intense, so overwhelming that Anna thought that she'd die. And sometimes it was so violent that she'd cry out in pain. But none of them gave a shit. They just continued to feed on her.
Thankfully, there were a few sympathetic Ghouls. Those eternally Blood-Bonded servitors did what they could to keep Anna away from the clutches of a painful death.
When she was short (on blood), they donated some of their mixed blood to her. Some even attempted to help her finish her education, but she was a broken kid. It was hard for her to get back on the wagon.
4 years of this felt like an eternity for poor Anna. Mauve was, of course, moving on with her (then-mortal) life, rising up, making daddy and mommy proud.
She was successful, yes, but she was also totally oblivious to what was going on. The Ivory Tower was working real hard to keep its dirty little secrets under wraps. And it worked. For the most part.
It wasn't long before some Ventrue Harpy grew tired of Anna's "clinginess" as a Blood Doll, so she was thrown out on the streets and discarded like she was...nothing.
That's when that Malk Ancilla was passing through. He took pity (or something resembling it) on this former Blood Doll and Embraced her. He left her to fend for herself when she woke up. Anna was terrified.
Hanging around with Kindred meant that she had SOME idea of what had happened to her, what had been done to her. She was scared.
In the 4 years she had spent, contacting her big sister wasn't too big on her list of priorities- survival was. After her Embrace, Anna was determined to track down her big sister and re-establish contact, maybe even form a bond again.
The Malkavian Fledgling showed up at her big sister's doorstep, but Mauve...didn't recognize this young girl. As a matter of fact, Mauve was having a small house party to celebrate a recent promotion.
Anna was still a little girl in Mauve's mind, a little girl who made some mistakes and couldn't face the wrath of her parents. So, she ran away to find her sister and got caught up in a whirlwind of crazy shit. That's not Mauve's fault. It's not Anna's fault either.
It just...happened. And, yes, it happens all the time. People make mistakes, but the system and society don't always give them room to grow and move on from those mistakes, let alone understand them.
Official morality forces them to carry that baggage around forever, or until they "drop dead".
When Anna showed up on her big sister's doorstep, Mauve was caught off-guard. She didn't recognize the person who stood before her, so she told her to leave.
"There's a shelter nearby. I think you might find what you're looking for over there."
Anna's lips shook and her expression broke, "You--you really don't recognize me??"
Anna's pleas fell on deaf ears. She tried to talk to her sister, but it was futile. Mauve had essentially convinced herself that Anna had died. Her parents soothed themselves with this comforting lie as well.
The Malk Fledgling hung her head low, sighed deeply, and walked away. But she vowed to come back to her sister when she found out more about this new world that she'd been Sired into.
Anna spent the next few nights searching for information pertaining to her Clan- the Clan of the Moon.
The rest, of course, is equally tragic. It's unclear whether Anna was pissed off and enraged by the whole situation, or if she truly meant to do it, but Anna stalked her big sister for weeks, keenly studying her movements, her patterns, etc.
She studied Mauve's life with great interest. She found her to be...inspiring. In some twisted way, Mauve was still Anna's hero, and Anna was determined to get back in touch with her, and MAKE HER REMEMBER WHO SHE...was, who she is.
Did Anna get caught in the euphoria of feeding from Mauve or did she have an actual goal in mind? It's unclear. What IS clear is that Anna fed on her mortal sibling and eventually Embraced her, effectively robbing Mauve of an ordinary life.
Maybe it was guilt, shame, curiosity, none of the above, or a crazy combination of all 3 that caused Anna to Embrace her big sister on that fateful night.
(Ms. Lilac can deny it all she wants, but it's the truth. Anna is, and will always be, her Sire).
It's complicated, and it's sad. Mauve's career was effectively over, and she was forced to flee the city that she had called home for a good amount of time.
Anna, for her part, would eventually drift off to another Domain. She'd go on to throw her lot in with the Anarchs and her whereabouts remain unknown to this night. Some say she was burned in a car crash.
Some claim she simply disappeared. Others insist that she's still out there, somewhere. Not many know for sure. At least, not yet.
Anna was a vulnerable and scared girl who was taken advantage of by those who were richer and powerful than her. She fell into the Camarilla's clutches and was used (and passed around) like a blunt at a frat party.
She was then thrown away like trash when they were done with her. All of that had a violent ripple effect leading to where Mauve is now.
This is sad and fucked up. And it's only going to get worse. So much worse.
Chapter 16: Owning The Future- Part 1
The sun roars into view. The Kindred of Flimont City are dragged into the irresistible pull of the day-sleep. A darkness clouds their visions as their immortal bodies go into a rejuvenative stasis of sorts.
Their eyes shut until dusk. While they slumber, the mortals take charge. Well, most of them, at least. They get up and start their day as usual. This is...normal.
Luciano crashes at Paul's place because the former's place is a veritable sty after the wild party he recently threw. He doesn't care that it's so crusty and dirty; he'll just call a pro to clean it up real nice.
He's got the money, lots of it.
LDJ calls up none other than Mike Winters of Worbo's Professional Cleaning Services and requests a full deep cleaning of his place, the usual. He gives the address, and Mike says that he'll send someone over as soon as possible.
Luciano thanks him and hangs up.
Mike proceeds to call up...Diana Moskowitz. She's finishing up her breakfast when the call comes through.
"Hey, toots."
Diana groans, "Ugh. What now?"
Mike grins, "That's not a way to say good morning to your boss. What kind of a 'woman' are you? Hmph. Luciano's place. Donovan, yeah, that one. Get your sweet ass over there and give it a deep cleaning, top-to-bottom."
Diana sighs, "Fine. It better be worth it, Mike. I'm getting pretty sick of all the work you keep heaping on me. I KNOW you CAN gimme a raise--"
Mr. Winters cuts her off, "Ah, ah, ah, ah. Don't get ahead of yourself, sweetie. I'm struggling here, OK? It's been real hard for me, and you're asking for a fucking raise? Grrhmph."
He insincerely continues, "I'm doing the best I can, but I'm being squeezed from all sides. Do you have any idea how expensive shit is? I'm gonna need some more time to really figure out the whole situation."
Diana growls and spits, "Fuck you, Mike." She angrily hangs up and finishes her breakfast in a hurry. She gulps some coffee down, rubs her mouth, and heads for the depot where the company vans are usually kept.
Mike snickers to himself and shakes his head. He turns to his Dalmatian, who was watching the whole thing unfold.
"You see that? Fucking moochers, the whole goddamn bunch of them! How can I be expected to run a business and succeed when everyone's expecting a fucking handout, huh?"
No meaningful response comes from the doggy.
Diana gets her supplies ready and drives off into the sunny morning. The drive to Mr. Donovan's place is uneventful, as always. She pulls up, gets out of the van, and goes to ring the doorbell.
In the midst of all the filth in his own place, LDJ goes to balcony, fully naked and erect. The sunlight shines on his nude form, but he's a man on a mission.
The naked fella lifts his chin and stretches his arms out to either side of his body. He looks like he's ready to burst into song or something. His expression is serene and...oddly peaceful.
He grunts and groans, "Ahh, ah, yes! This is what life is all about."
He breathes in and out, and begins his daily morning affirmations, "I'm King Kong and I'm a 100 feet tall. I own this city, I am this city--"
Diana rings the doorbell again and calls out, "Hello? I'm with Worbo's Professional Cleaning Services. Is anybody home?? Hello?"
LDJ shakes his head and continues, "I'm Luciano-fucking-Donovan and it's ALL MINE, goddamn mine...and I'll skin, salt, and FUCK anyone who tries to take my cream away from me!"
He growls like a madman, and his face turns red with anger. The naked rich guy continues to scream and shout to the sunny heavens, "This is MY playground, MY turf! I draw money, women, and respect towards me. RAAAAAAAAAAAARGH!"
Diana can hear bits and pieces of this insanity from where she's standing. A part of her is wondering whether to call 911 or animal control.
She rings the bell again, "Hello? Hello? I'm with Worbo's Professional Cleaning Services. I've been sent here to clean up your place, Mr. Donovan. Hello?"
Luciano takes a few more breaths, puts on his bathrobe (he remembered to, thank fuck), and walks over to the front door. He opens it and greets Diana, "Oh. It's you. Again."
He waves her inside and shows her the state of his place with a wide, sweeping gesture, "Ah, we had a wild party here. You saw the news, right? I had to celebrate my latest win, and when Donovans celebrate...oh, marone."
Diana grimaces. There are pizza boxes (with flies buzzing around them), booze bottles, crushed cans, used condoms, used syringes, and just...all kinds of garbage everywhere. The whole place smells pretty freakin' awful, too.
Luciano looks on at the mess and nods, "Yep." He has a smile on his face, like he's not at all concerned about the state of HIS OWN goddamn place.
Diana heaves a huge sigh and sets to work cleaning up the mess. It's going to be a long, long day for her (she figures as much). She has to clean up the kitchen, the living room, the bathroom, the bedroom...everywhere, basically.
There's a lot of dried cum that needs to be scrubbed off. It's on the walls, the floor, the couch, etc. How it got there is best left to the imagination.
There are also other bodily fluids that need to be cleaned up as well (omega yuck). This is one filthy-ass place.
Diana retrieves the required cleaning supplies and gets to work. Even for 1 person, this is a lot to handle. Luciano already knows that Diana is transgender (she had to tell him that to get him off her back).
He continues to prod her about this, by asking, "So, when they chopped it off, did it hurt? Or did you keep it?"
Diana stops mopping the floor and glares at him. She shakes her head and focuses on the mopping.
Luciano raises his chin, "Hey, I asked you a fuckin' question."
"What does it matter to you? I'm here to do a job- cleaning up your place- and that's that. You can think whatever you want about me, but it's not gonna change the fact that I'm here to get paid. So, please, lemme work."
She then mumbles under her breath, "Slimy fucking bastard."
Luciano Jr. furrows his brows, "You say something, huh?"
"No."
Yeah, this whole thing goes..."great". It's hot outside, and the air in here is thick with tension and frustration.
There are more than a few moments when Diana wants to shove the mop's handle down LDJ's throat, just to get him to shut the fuck up. There are other times when Diana has to keep herself from barfing when cleaning up all the filth around her.
As she's wiping some cum off the kitchen wall, she thinks to herself, "Goddamn. I should've brought a hazmat suit, heh."
LDJ continues pestering her with questions, mainly about her gender identity. Diana does not dignify any of them with an answer, but she knows that if she's mean to a customer, Mike will immediately fire her ass on the spot.
Her boss has warned her about this many times before, and she has no intention of pushing his buttons too hard. She wants to keep her job, after all. She needs it, more than anything, she needs it.
The workday drags on for an eternity, and by the time Diana is done with everything, it's well into the afternoon. She asked for a quick lunchbreak, but LDJ declined her reasonable request.
"Look at this place, Diana! Get on those knees and finish up. You missed a spot over there!" he wildly gestures at all the filth, garbage, and bodily fluids that still remain all around him.
Eventually, Diana manages to finish cleaning up this asshole's fancy place. Luciano goes into his wallet and hands her...5 bucks.
Diana looks at this with some confusion.
Luciano shrugs, "What are still here, gawking at me for, huh? I already wired the money to your boss. Now, go on. Get outta here."
Diana is raging on the inside. She wants to lunge forward and strangle this entitled, narcissistic man-child to death with her bare hands that are sore and calloused from all the work she did.
Literally hours on end, with no breaks in between. She was on her knees, scrubbing and scrubbing and scrubbing until the place looked all nice and shiny again.
She takes a breath and forces herself to walk away. She grabs her cleaning supplies and slowly makes her way out of the front door, all the while seething with anger.
When she's outside, Diana angrily mutters under her breath, "I HATE THIS FUCKING CITY AND ALL THESE SICK--"
But she restrains herself and starts up her vehicle. She quickly drives away. The whole time, she's biting down on her lip and seething with rage. The anger is so intense that she's practically shaking.
Once she's at a traffic stop, Diana immediately calls Mike up. Mr. Winters has already received the money, and he's counting his blessings because he "needed" that sweet, sweet dosh.
"Hey, toots. How'd it go?"
Diana wants to scream, she wants to howl and shout and curse into the phone, but she knows that if she does that, Mike will hang up, then fire her on the spot. And she'll be out of a job.
So, she puts on a fake smile, "It went...well, Mr. Winters." There is defeat and pain in her tone of voice.
Mike exclaims, "Ah, that's brilliant. Alright, I got a few more jobs for you today."
"Hmm. Sure thing, boss." Diana's eyes are watering, and her throat is burning. She wants to scream and shout, but she can't.
She has no choice. Rent's due in a few days, and if she doesn't cough up the cash, the landlord has PROMISED to evict her on the spot.
So, she'll go back to her shitty job and try to make do. It's not like poor Diana has any other options.
Elsewhere...
The afternoon sun blazes with such intense fury that there have been reports of heat strokes and heat-related deaths in the city. Folks are staying out of the sun as much as they can, but some simply have no other choice.
Bike couriers, delivery people, and others are forced to be out there, risking their lives to earn a buck. It's really, really bad out there.
The city is bathed in a harsh yellow-white light that almost hurts to look at. Cars speed around on the streets, and the sidewalks are filled with desperate people, struggling to make it through this awful heatwave.
A sweaty dude takes off his entire suit and walks around, his bare chest exposed to the air. He looks like a maniac, but he doesn't care.
A woman fans herself with a magazine while her child, a little chubby boy, drinks a tall glass of vanilla milkshake in a nearby caf.
Certain parts of the city are brought to a standstill thanks to the bumper-to-bumper traffic. Honking horns and angry shouts pollute the air.
In the midst of all this commotion and madness, 1 large building stands out: it's a dark obsidian tower of steel and thick black glass. It reaches high into the heavens, but it's slightly curved on the top, so it almost resembles a giant karambit.
This is the Lancaster-SYS building. The cars are all parked in the basement below. The outside area is very quiet and almost desolate.
There are a few tables, and a food truck is set up in 1 of the corners. There is a small park a few yards away, with a few picnic tables set up, and some street performers are there, playing the violin, guitar, and so forth.
There's an old guy dressed in a mime outfit, doing some contortion tricks.
Clarence Lancaster is in his limousine. He looks outside, bitter and resentful as always. His miserable scowl only deepens as he sees the guy in the mime outfit.
The old coot shakes his head, grumbles, and turns his head aside. He sighs and rubs his forehead. The Lancaster family patriarch is dressed in a sharp black suit, patterned white shirt, and a beige scarf.
Getting him into this suit was a pain. He kept cursing out his staff and fighting with them. In the end, he budged.
The limo stops at the front of the Lancaster-SYS building. Clarence was asked if he wanted to be taken to the top floor in a wheelchair, but he'd sooner die than show even the slightest sign of weakness.
The driver opens the door for him. Clarence shakily gets out and goes to the front of the building. His stick-holding hand is trembling like mad, but he's too stubborn to sit his ass down on a wheelchair and be comfortably taken up.
He stands before the main entrance, takes a deep breath, and hobbles in. His assistants and aides are already there to greet him.
A short man bows his head and attempts to help his boss's father take a seat, "Mr. Lancaster, sir. It is, as always, a pleasure to see you. You must be tired after your long journey--"
Clarence bitterly interrupts him, "Oh, shut up, fool. Just show me up, and y'all better be ready." He growls at the other assistants nearby.
They lower their heads, avoid eye contact, and scatter in various directions.
The short man motions to the VIP-only elevator on the far side of this vast and expansive lobby area, "Oh, yes, Mr. Lancaster, sir. Are you sure--"
Clarence grits his teeth, "Boy, I will whoop your ass where you stand. Do not second-guess me, do not test me. And do not talk back. Is that clear, fool?"
The short man's eyes are wide open with shock, "Uh, uh, yes, sir. That's clear, Mr. Lancaster. Right this way. We're...waiting for you on the 36th floor. It's quite the long ride up, s--sir."
"Hff." Clarence slowly limps over to the elevator, muttering curses and groaning and complaining all the while. He gets inside and waits for the sleek doors to shut.
The assistants and aides do well to give the old geezer a wide berth. Some bury their noses in their PDAs (pretending to look busy), others look at the shiny floor in contemplative silence, and still others just wait around, awkwardly.
The elevator slowly and laboriously ascends all the way up to the 36th floor.
The board has called a meeting. Laurence Lancaster, the CEO/Founder, is essentially missing. Attempts to contact him (whether through telephone or physically) are unsuccessful.
As a result, the mood at Lancaster-SYS is grim, to say the least. A few people are clustered together, but none of them want to talk.
A specialist security and recovery team was dispatched to Magnolia City, Laurence's last known location. They have not been heard from since.
On most of the floors, some people whisper to themselves, while others are praying or simply waiting for some good news to be delivered to them.
But none of that really matters, because Clarence is here to clean up his son's mess (whatever that might be), oust him as CEO, and finally get things under control and running smoothly again.
The elevator doors finally open, revealing a hallway that leads to a spacious conference room. The lights are dim, and the air is stale. The carpet is a dull grayish brown, and the walls are dark beige.
Someone makes the mistake of offering help to the old bastard, and Clarence cusses them out, loudly and vociferously. They shrink away, red in the face and humiliated.
Clarence limps and shuffles down the hall, his hand on his walking stick and his body hunched over, "Hmph. Goddamn it."
His assistants and aides follow suit, some shaking their heads and faintly muttering curses.
The boardroom is wide and spacious. There's a massive black table in the center with about 2 dozen chairs surrounding it. A majority of the seats are currently taken.
A man in a suit with a laptop is setting up the projector and connecting all the necessary devices.
Clarence walks over to the seat where a golden plaque with his name already sits. He slowly pulls the chair back, and plops down, cursing all the while.
1 of his aides takes a seat at the far end of the table and motions for the proceedings to begin.
Everyone else either takes their designated seat or stands back. There are still a few seats remaining, but no butts on them. Everyone here is at the top of their game. All of them have been prepared for this moment.
(This is, in essence, a worst-case type of scenario. Without Laurence, Lancaster-SYS is a rudderless ship. Or at least that's what many around here seem to believe.)
The board members have all come to a (more or less) unanimous consensus, and they are ready to deliver their final verdict to the CEO's father.
(Ex-CEO now, heh).
Clarence pours himself a glass of cold water, gulps it down, and growls, "OK, let's get this shit over with. I wanna get back to my warm, comfortable home. I'm sick and tired of being dragged all the goddamn way out here."
A dark-skinned man with a drop fade shrugs, "We don't have any other choice, Mr. Clarence. We need to talk this out. We're all on the same side here, after all. Aren't we?"
Clarence scoffs, "That remains to be seen, Jeremy."
Jeremy plainly smiles back, "Laurence is your son, Mr. Lancaster. But it's your family name on the building."
Clarence glowers at Jeremy, "Don't get all educated with me, boy. Anyone of you have any objections to these proceedings, speak up. Otherwise, shut the fuck up. I don't need nobody's bullshit today. I already got 'nuff of that back at home."
The room grows quiet and tense. Some of the board members exchange glances, wondering who might come out of this unscathed.
After some brief reflection, a woman named Sharla declares, "Alright. Good afternoon, esteemed members of the board. And a very special good afternoon to Mr. Clarence Lancaster, who has graciously taken the time out of his busy schedule to be here with us on this lovely, sunny afternoon. Thank you for that. Now, I think we should...proceed with the agenda."
A couple of them nod, but it's mostly a perfunctory gesture at this point. It has already been decided; this is all just a...formality.
Sharla clears her throat, adjusts her suit, and lifts her chin, "Our CEO, Laurence Lancaster, is...gone. This is...all we seem to know at the moment. It is indeed an unfortunate turn of events. As such, we've all agreed to meet in order to...discuss our options."
Jeremy takes over, "Indeed, Sharla. Thank you. Yes, we have the ongoing project with our erm...fairly...erm--"
Clarence snaps, "Just get to the point, boy!"
Jeremy nervously continues, "Right. We've been contacted by...our recent clients who are concerned about the current state of our affairs at the company, especially concerning this most recent project of ours. As such, we've come to the conclusion that we should..."
He gulps, "...Well, there is no other choice. Laurence is incommunicado at the moment. As we know, our most recent clients are, how should I say this delicately, displeased with the outcome of our...efforts on behalf of...their interests."
He tries to smile, but it's a forced, half-hearted effort, "Yeah. All they are, understandably, interested in is full completion of the private infrastructure project, which..."
An older, refined gentleman named Larry adjusts his tie and takes over. His hair is silver and neatly parted. He smoothly continues over for Jeremy, "Our clients are eager for us to finish our end of the bargain and get the job done."
He coughs and continues, "Their patience has been tried thus far. We were on a lengthy conference call with them recently. It was, productive, yes."
Sharla points out, "Of course, once news leaked about the deaths of 3 employees connected to the aforementioned project, our clients immediately went on the defensive. And they have a good right to be. This has caused a small rift in our relations. But none of this is germane to the matter at hand."
Another man takes over, a big fella with a very square jaw and a thin black mustache. His plaque reads: "Jerome".
Jerome says, his voice deep and resolute, "I have already dispatched a S&R team to Magnolia City, in an effort to track down your son, Mr. Clarence. Till now, they have not checked in. Efforts to reach them via the usual channels have thus far been unsuccessful."
He concludes, "Simply put: they're not answering their phones, or someone- a rival- got to 'em. It's too early to say. We're waiting on a risk assessment from the boys on the 13th floor."
Jeremy points out, "Regardless, our clients need their project completed...ASAP. They are quite insistent. So, the question is simple: who will lead the charge? We don't have much time left. The project was nearing completion before, well, you know."
Larry nods, "Yes, our stock prices took a massive hit after those 3 were killed. Our own investigation into the matter has revealed that the deaths were not, thankfully, connected to our...our, well...ongoing project."
Jerome thinks out loud, "It is, I strongly believe, possible that our CEO has been abducted for some reason or the other. There's also a high chance that he might be in hiding."
Clarence scoffs and dismissively waves his hand, "Ach. I gave that boy everything, and he goes off, squandering it. To hell with him. A shame, a goddamn shame. An insult to the Lancaster family name, just like those goddamn mulatto boys of his."
Some board members shoot each other a look. There's no denying that this is a very, very bad situation, but the old geezer is making things much, much worse.
He grimaces and continues, "I don't care where he is. If he's rotting away in a sewer, then that's his goddamn problem. Not mine. I gave ENOUGH for that ungrateful boy and he just went and tossed it all out the goddamn window."
Clarence slams his fist on the table, "I told him so many times: get rid of those lousy bastards..." he trails off, mumbling some incomprehensible nonsense under his breath.
His eyes are semi-bloodshot, his expression is contorted into an angry scowl. The old man is trembling, sweating, and breathing heavily. He's on the verge of having a full-blown heart attack, and he's clearly aware of this.
Jeremy's eyebrows shoot up, and he wrings his hands together. He calmly speaks, "Regardless of the reason for his disappearance, we have to keep in mind that the business could be at risk, even without him."
He slightly grimaces, "It's bad enough that we're on very thin ice with our recent clients, and it would be prudent for us to complete this project before things get any worse or--or out of hand."
A few board members nod.
Jeremy looks around the table, and motions for Sharla to take over.
She professionally smiles at him and nods, "Thank you." She continues, "We've gone over this at great length, Mr. Clarence. We have yet to agree on who shall lead the company in your son's absence. But this is not...well, the final step."
Clarence asks, "What do you mean by that? Just pick somebody as interim CEO and get it over with."
Sharla shakily laughs and replies, "Oh, if only it were as simple as that, sir. Your son had a plan of sorts. Were he to unexpectedly die or go missing, he wished for 1 of his 3 sons- Quincy, Tequan, or Marcus- to be appointed the new CEO."
Sharla continues, "As you can imagine, Mr. Clarence, we are in desperate need of your expertise in this matter."
Larry takes over, "Quincy is out of the question, of course. He has been, I was told, appointed as the CFO of Gen4 Security. Is this correct, Mr. Clarence?"
Clarence nods, "That is correct."
Larry proceeds, "Well, Tequan. I err...don't know whether a uhm...chiropractor would be suitable for us, haha."
Jerome chimes in, "He's also a homosexual. An openly gay CEO ain't something we can exactly roll with, especially now."
Some of the other board members nod in full agreement.
Larry clears his throat, "Yes, I see your point. So, that leaves...Marcus. His background as a stockbroker does show some promise."
Clarence shakes his head from side to side, "Nuh-uh. That ain't gon' happen. Ever."
Jeremy asks, "Might I ask why? Putting my friendship with your grandson aside, what is the reason behind your...strong feelings on the matter, Mr. Clarence?"
Clarence firmly replies, "Boy, you're young and you still have a lot to learn. Don't ask questions that you don't really wanna hear the answer to. It ain't gon' be Marcus. I'd sooner blow this whole fuckin' place sky high than hand it over to that goddamn failure."
The Lancaster patriarch has a bitter and foul look on his face. His eyes are blazing with hate and contempt at the very mention of Marcus's name.
Jerome blinks and shakes his head, "I--I see. Well, that don't leave us with many other choices, err...does it?"
Mumbles and grumbles echo through the room. No one wants to step in and take on the role of Lancaster-SYS CEO. Or maybe they do, and they're just playing coy, biding their time.
Jeremy sighs and sheepishly asks, "Forgive me if I am crossing a line here, Mr. Clarence. But what about your other grandchildren? Do you feel that there's anyone among them who'd be suitable for the role?"
Before the old guy can respond, Sharla cuts in and boldly queries, "Mr. Clarence, have YOU considered yourself for the role? It would certainly be good for the company, in more ways than 1."
Clarence slowly raises his chin and swallows hard. He looks at the other board members, and they look back at him, expecting an answer. Coherent, preferably.
After a long and tense minute of mulling over the possibilities, he finally manages to say, "Now that you've mentioned it, I'll be thinkin' about it."
Clarence shakes his head and grumbles, "Goddamn Marcus and the rest of those boys. I shoulda called them 'mistake' and then I shoulda called the damn orphanage soon after. Hrrrmhph."
Um...OK?
After that, the old bugger slowly, deliberately rises to his feet. His hands are trembling, and he's clearly in the midst of an arduous battle with his own body, but he pushes through, "I'll say it once: pick whoever you wanna pick...but make sure they ain't dumb and stupid."
Jeremy bows his head, "Of course, sir."
Clarence bitterly adds, "Oh, and 1 last thing. Don't even try to saddle me with this responsibility ever again. I'm an old man, and I need to be home in my damn bed. Now, get me the fuck outta here."
Larry's eyebrows go up and he smiles tightly. He shoots a knowing look at Sharla, who's sitting a few seats away from him.
"Yes, sir," Jerome answers with some relief. He promptly ushers Mr. Lancaster out of the boardroom. He even goes down with the old guy, making small talk and asking how his adult grandchildren are doing.
The door closes behind them, leaving behind the remaining board members, who sigh with relief, "Well, that's over with."
Jeremy exhales sharply, "Whew. It's eggshells on a minefield with that guy. I swear to God, I thought he was about to have a goddamn heart attack right here and now. Thank heavens that didn't happen. It would've been bad for our already-dwindling share prices, haha!"
A few people nod in agreement. Some even chuckle along.
Clarence is driven back home, and the remainder of the sweltering afternoon chugs along. It's hot and sweaty outside, but the board members are content knowing that a large and heavy weight has been lifted off their shoulders.
The board's "productive" discussions do eventually lead to the appointment of a temporary CEO for Lancaster-SYS. Until then, they'll be on the lookout for someone more suitable.
They all agree that Mr. Clarence Lancaster, the ex-CEO's father, is well, he's Clarence. But his experience, connections, and vast wealth are assets that they simply cannot afford to overlook.
There's a shimmering haze covering the city of Flimont. It's still very hot and muggy. The Lancaster-SYS building stands tall and ominous amongst the rest of the skyscrapers, which are nowhere near as grand as the dark obsidian structure.
From certain angles, it's quite photogenic. As a matter of fact, a photographer for a magazine once took a picture of the Lancaster-SYS building on a similar summer day.
The photograph in question was aptly titled: "OMINOUS".
Needless to say, Laurence didn't like that 1 bit when he got wind of it. He went ALL OUT to have the photographer fired and the magazine yanked from the shelves.
It got so bad that the poor photographer eventually took his own life. It wasn't until neighbors complained about a stench coming from his bathroom that he was discovered.
He was 20-something and he had his full life ahead of him, but the ego of a greedy and fragile CEO (same applies for the board members and shareholders, too) ruined everything.
When Laurence Lancaster goes all out in destroying or ruining someone, you better believe that he goes all-fucking-out. He had a reputation as being ruthless, determined, like an immovable object yet to meet an unstoppable force.
(That wasn't even the 1st time something like that has happened, either.)
Typical behavior of a large company's CEO- narcissistic, petty, vindictive, and egomaniacal to a fault.
(The system itself rewards, fosters, and incentivizes such foul traits, which in turn help to uphold and sustain the system.)
So, the fact that Laurence is AWOL right now is both good and bad for the den of coiling snakes at Lancaster-SYS. On the 1 hand, it's good because, well, there's an opening.
(The perks of being CEO are nuts! It's criminal!)
It's bad because of that very important, very secretive project that was supposed to be completed by now. It was due to be a big success for Lancaster-SYS.
If the plan fails, the whole company could be in trouble. And these are clients that you don't wanna piss off- ever! They're scary, shrouded in secrecy, and have the resources to end you on the spot.
But, again, there's an opening...and there are lot of folk in the board who are clamoring for that top spot. They all want to be the next CEO of Lancaster-SYS.
There's no rush, though. They know the value of the long game. They got time, connections, money, and power. It's just a matter of time, really. Those fancy shoes do be needing some filling!
So, what even happened to Laurence Lancaster in Magnolia City?
Ah, it involves the Kindred in that particular Domain. More need not be said...for now.
Anyhoo...
As the evening comes, the sky begins to glow with a dull orange hue. The air is warm and thick, but the residents of the city have been forced to become inured to this.
(It's called climate change, and it's not gonna get any better unless something's done about it).
The city is lit up with the brightest light pollution in the region, as the night begins anew. The Kindred are slowly roused from their day-slumber by the time the sun makes its full retreat.
It's another night for the city, another night of bustling with business, cars honking, people going here, going there, and so forth.
Dr. Collins twitches on his sturdy (and heavy) double bed, which is made of oakwood. This bed was a nightmare to bring to his bedroom. Even the strongest Brujah (using Potence) would have trouble carrying it.
But this bed is special to the good doctor. Why?
It helps him stay Grounded. That's the Tzimisce Clan Bane. It basically means that the Tzimisce MUST spend their day-sleep in VERY close proximity to the object (or objects) that Grounds them.
This can anything...or anyone. Thankfully, it's just the big ol' bed for the good doctor. Other Stokers have to day-sleep whilst surrounding themselves with the soil from the ground of their homelands.
Others probably have to day-sleep in the tattered clothes in which they were Embraced. It varies from Fiend to Fiend, really.
But what is the significance of this bed? WHY does it Ground him?
It was also, as it turns out, the very same bed he was Embraced on. It was back in the 1960s. Moving this thing around hasn't been easy these past 40 years, but the good doctor has managed just fine.
Ljudmila was the name of the woman who Embraced Dr. Collins. She hailed from what would eventually come to be known as USSR, but after Stalin and his bureaucratic cronies betrayed the 1917 Bolshevik Revolution, she fled the country for the United States.
Ljudmila, for her part, was initially optimistic and excited about the changes that were to come. It was even said that there were some Tzimisce who enthusiastically took part in the 1917 Revolution, as did many other Clans and Bloodlines.
She had lived for so long, seen so much, and witnessed too much suffering prior to the October Revolution.
But...she was forced to bear witness to the gains of the Revolution being undone and usurped by a bureaucratic caste of those unfit to lead the working masses forward.
She did her best to hold out and fight back, but it was of no use sadly. Stalin and his goons usurped power, and the remaining good people were either purged (violently) or fled (to lands faraway).
After a series of gruesome purges and mass executions, the Soviet Union was a hollow husk of what it could have been. Whole generations of revolutionists, intellectuals, fighters, poets, artists, scientists, and more were tragically lost.
(Kindred were said to be amongst the numerous victims, but the overwhelming majority were mortals).
Ljudmila's Childer were among those who were destroyed during the Great Purge (or Great Terror) of 1936-1938. She was among the fortunate ones to have fled before the long knives were being sharpened.
Ljudmila lost all of her Childer to some crazy Stalin-aligned Brujah and Tremere who came ready and left absolutely no survivors by the time their carnage had concluded.
The rampage was terrible, and it was said that the traitorous Kindred were at it for nights, feeding and feeding and feeding, to the point where their veins were blackened with Diablerie.
(They were high on the Blood of their fellow Cainites. How terrible. Even Banu Haqim have their limits.)
After the bloodletting was done, those same Humanity-deprived Kindred had moved onto the villages and small towns nearby.
Ljudmila herself caught wind of the approaching horde of Diablerists. So, she made arrangements to be smuggled out of a small region in Georgia, and she went westward from there.
Ljudmila was able to successfully escape and flee the USSR. She spent some time in the Carpathian Mountains before arriving in the US of A.
It wasn't long before she would meet the then-mortal Dr. Collins. She took an interest in him. Even back then, he was diligent, professional, stolid, and knowledgeable. He was the perfect candidate for Ljudmila's fangs.
He was also a man who had no problem accepting the existence of the supernatural. Ljudmila did her best to rationally explain (and justify) the existence of vampires to the man.
Dr. Collins and the woman who'd go on to become his Sire had many an interesting conversation. She initially visited his small clinic to pick up some medicines for her Ghouls.
It was snowing outside, and the sky above was starless and dark.
Their talks were level-headed, amicable, and rather intellectually stimulating. They discussed their different beliefs and philosophies, and it was said that Ljudmila was greatly impressed by Dr. Collins's knowledge, experience, and understanding.
At that time, she had largely moved on. She still held out hope that the USSR could be saved. However, the assassination of Leon Trotsky in 1940 killed any semblance of optimism in her.
Of course, WW2 and the horrors that followed was the straw that broke the camel's back, so to speak. The Siege of Leningrad in 1941 broke her shriveled heart beyond repair.
800+ days of unspeakable horrors. And the Red Army had already been severely weakened by then.
The pain was apparent in Ljudmila's baggy eyes. Dr. Collins noticed this throughout their many talks. He prodded, but by the 1960s she had essentially given up on...hope itself.
The Stoker had, many times, contemplated walking out into the sun and ending it all. She spent most of the 1950s locked in her 1-bedroom Haven. She used her Ghouls to help fetch her blood, carry out some work on her behalf, and do what Ghouls usually do for their Domitors.
Her will was still strong back then, but her resolve was slowly breaking apart at the seams.
By the 1960s, she was a shell of her former self. A walking husk barely clinging on to the notion of Humanity itself. While she refrained from monstrous deeds, a part of her had become...numb. Numb to it all, really.
Dr. Collins perceptively picked up on her emotional state. He was initially given the choice of becoming her Ghoul, but HE urged her to Embrace him instead.
Ljudmila asked if this was what he wanted.
An equable "Yes" came out of his mouth, followed by a slight shrug of his shoulders. His last meal was a simple medium-rare steak.
In no uncertain terms did Ljudmila warn her future Childe about the MANY downsides of Unlife during the doctor's last dinner, but Dr. Collins simply wiped his mouth, washed his hands, and made his choice.
After washing his plate and throwing out the remains, Dr. Collins was led by the hand to the bed he would later die his First Death in.
He rationally explained to her that he, as an established physician, would be VERY interested in the possibilities of Kindred Unlife. To him, it was (and will always be) a matter of logic and reason, really.
Ljudmila was quite reluctant to take his soul. Him being easy with it took her aback as well. She knew that it was a 1-way ticket to an "afterlife" that was often quite horrific.
The remainder of the 1960s rekindled a small spark of hope in Ljudmila. Following the Embrace of Dr. Collins, she took interest in the happenings of that particular epoch- the Civil Rights Movement, the anti-war movement(s), and so forth.
She and her Childe would have many a(n) (Un)lively debate on the merits of these movements and the various social, political, and economic forces that drove them.
However, most of the middle-class protest radicalism was already fading away by the 1970s, and by the 1980s, a mutated form of reaction had set in.
Add to that the malignant and corrosive effects of the Stalinist (and Stalinist-adjacent) orgs, and it isn't too hard to see why Ljudmila had lost hope.
There were, at best, a few stragglers who held on to their old ideals, but others would either fade away or go on to make their peace with the new order (tm). Some would hold out.
And, of course, the Reagan/Bush Administration's policies only fueled the flames of greed itself. Joseph Raymond McCarthy merely planted the seeds.
An entire generation was left disoriented, defanged, and without any semblance of leadership and perspective. Sad.
Ljudmila withdrew herself from the outside world by the late 1980s. Her Ghouls did literally everything for her. She'd occasionally write to her Childe, and he'd reply in kind (or when he found the time to).
Her last ever letter came on the day the USSR collapsed- 26th December 1991. It was a painful letter. She had not expected it to end in such a...bitter manner.
It remained in the possession of the good doctor for many, many years. He'd occasionally take it out and read through it, mulling over the harsh words written therein, and the...strange object that she had sent along with it.
It's a solid and sharp fragment of the spaceship of the Tzimisce Antediluvian, which crash-landed to planet Earth many eons ago. That particular fragment was found in the Ural Mountains by a group of mortal explorers and scientists.
It's heavy and sharp around the edges. It doesn't match any known element on the Periodic Table.
Ljudmila explained its significance: "This fragment of a star-faring flying vessel was found in the Ural Mountains. I can feel the power of The Eldest coursing through it. Preserve it. Study it if you please, my Childe. I entrust you with something that my own Sire entrusted to me many years ago."
Dr. Collins was initially skeptical about the validity of the object (and its connection to The Ancient), but the private (and under-wraps tests) he had conducted on this shard only raised more questions.
(The fragment was so unlike anything found on this planet. Its energy was, appropriately, alien and unsettling. It emanated a low, rhythmic thrumming sound that was simultaneously calming and unsettling at the same time.)
The letter and the very important artifact are still...somewhere in the Haven of Dr. Collins. Needless to say, that piece of spaceship was unlike nothing the good doctor had ever seen, read about, or heard about.
And he's a pretty well-read man!
Ever since the fall of the USSR (and the horrors that followed), Dr. Collins has not received any more word from his Sire. No letters, no attempts to reach out, no trinkets, no subtle messages, no nothing.
Did Ljudmila walk out into the sun and end it all? Did she fall into a Torpor from which she will never likely emerge? Did she relocate? Did she become the victim of the machinations of the Eternal Struggle?
It is unknown. This not knowing does bring some pain to Dr. Collins, but not so much that he is unable to function on a night-to-night basis.
He still has his Ghoul, Brock. He has his work as a GP in his clinic. And more recently, he has his duties as Primogen for his Clan.
The Stoker spent the last few nights looking to his patients. He had a small surgery that he had to perform for a child. It was a fairly straightforward procedure, and dead hands tend to be the steadiest of them all.
His eyes are always sharp, and his memory is a steel trap. His senses are honed, and he his medical knowledge is contemporary and bang-up to date.
The surgery was a success, and the child is in a stable condition. The child's younger sibling made a drawing (with crayons) for Dr. Collins.
The Fiend was pleased by the gesture. Even though he has literal alien Blood coursing through their veins, Dr. Collins remains a humble and unassuming doctor who will go out of his way to help all of his patients and do his best to keep them healthy and happy.
The good doctor bathes and dresses. For tonight, he has to see to some of his Primogen-related duties (albeit reluctantly).
There weren't that many patients scheduled for tonight, so Dr. Collins had Wesley move their appointments to another time. There was a small handful of regulars who Dr. Collins almost always sees first-thing, but they're either away or far too busy.
Dr. Collins is dressed in a pair of dark pleated pants, a white shirt with vertical blue stripes, and a thin tie. His shoes are black and polished.
He looks like a dapper fella. His hair is fine, and his eyes are (as always) keen and observant.
The Dragon sits on his armchair and helps himself to a bag of blood from his (recently replenished) stash. These...particular bags of blood have been rerouted from a children's hospital.
Yikes.
Dr. Collins is not a perfect man. He knows where his blood comes from, but how he rationalizes his "eating habits" is by sorta...not thinking about it too much, which for a man of reason and logic is so, so very unlike him.
He cracks open the stopper and chugs the sanguine contents of the blood bag down.
The red fluid is cold yet refreshing. It's always satisfying, and the Beast within hums contentedly as this sweet sanguine liquid makes its way down the throat of the Dragon.
He tosses the empty bag in the trash and gets himself together. He spends a few minutes reading through today's newspaper.
After that, Dr. Collins looks himself over in the mirror, adjusts his tie, and leaves his Haven.
He's off to meet a fellow Tzimisce named Mr. Lance, to discuss the redrawing of some boundaries for Tzimisce feeding and hunting grounds. It intersects with Ventrue territory, so there's a lot of...maneuvering that needs to be done.
These nights, the Tzimisce have a steady and stable presence in Flimont City. The former Primogen, Galeb, saw to it that the Tzimisce never expanded, multiplied, or became a threat (in any way, shape, or form) to the other Clans, especially the Ventrue.
(He had his own reasons for doing so).
Galeb was begrudgingly accepted as Primogen over his Clan. As an Elder, he had a certain sway over his fellow Stokers. Regardless, the Tzimisce in this Domain are still given a wide berth to do their own thang or whatever.
Provided it isn't in violation of the Camarilla's Traditions. The Tzimisce in this city are all Old Clan Tzimisce (including Dr. Collins). Old Clan Tzimisce did NOT join the Sabbat (or the Anarchs, for that matter).
They have remained steadfastly faithful to the Camarilla (many, not all; some have no use for Sects and whatnot). Others within Old Clan Tzimisce even refuse to engage in Flesh-Crafting/Vicissitude.
They believe it is far too barbaric and uncivilized. Of course, not all Tzimisce can shy away from this. There's a good reason why the Tzimisce are also known as "Flesh-Shapers".
After all, Dr. Collins himself Covets after having 2 extra arms. He just has to find the...right "donor" who can "supply" the limbs.
For now, the good doctor phones his Ghoul, Brock.
Brock answers, sounding very awake and alert, "Yeah?"
Dr. Collins begins, "It's me. How are things going on your end?"
"Oh, hey, doc! Yeah, I'm just studying here. Y'know, gotta be...sharp if I wanna make it as a plastic surgeon, right? Haha! So, what's up, doc?"
Dr. Collins nods and replies, "I'm proud of you, kid. Did you do what I asked?"
Brock nods, "Oh, yeah, yeah. Totally. I spoke to the err...others. They're doing OK. They keep asking about...you-know-who, and I keep telling them what you told me to tell 'em. Yeah, they uhm...they're worried, but some of them are relieved, too."
Dr. Collins is somewhat satisfied by this, "Hmm. Good. I'll need you to take care of a few things for me tomorrow morning. I'll drop by your place to tell you more. Anything else I should be made aware of?"
"Nah. Same old, same old. You read the paper, right? Frontpage?"
The Stoker groans, "Hmph. Yes. Like I said: everything I've learned about the Donovans has been against my will. He got lucky, that's it." There's a hint of anger in his voice.
Brock's eyebrows go up, "I see. Yeah, fair enough. Everyone at the university's talking about it, too."
"Hm. Stay safe out there, kid. I'll drop by your place after I'm done with some other things. And don't worry, I'll knock- and wait- in case you have...company over."
Brock faintly snickers, "Nah, I'm like totally focusing on my studies now, doc. Oh, by the way, I went to see Dr. Sarah."
"Ah, you did. How is she?"
Brock turns over a page in his textbook, "She's good, yeah. I had my teeth checked over. Nothing too major, thankfully. It's all good, neat, and clean."
"Good. Good. Did she say anything else?"
"Mm-hmm. She wants to talk to you. She told me to tell you to drop by her dental practice anytime you're not too busy."
Dr. Collins cracks a small smile, "I think I'll see her tonight."
"You don't have any patients to see at the clinic??"
"Nope. Most of them are either out of town or busy. I had Wes reschedule a few other appointments to another time, but that's only because it's nothing urgent."
Brock blinks and scratches his head, "Oh, wow. Really?? So, you've got a lotta free time tonight, doc!"
"Yeah. Not as 'free' as I'd like it to be, but hey, I can always find some good and productive use for it. Alright, I'll drop by later, Brock. Be there, wait for me. We'll talk then."
"Roger that, doc. Bye!"
Click, and the line goes dead. Dr. Collins grabs his car keys and leaves the Haven. He gets in his green Honda Insight, puts on his seatbelt, and drives off to Mr. Lance's Haven.
Traffic is heavy during this time of the night. Dr. Collins heaves a sigh of mild annoyance and has his hands on the steering wheel. He's not the type to lose his patience so easily, but Flimont City's traffic can test even the most patient of saints!
Near the downtown area, Dr. Collins is stopped at a random police checkpoint. A cop has his assault rifle out. There's a large, armored van with blinking sirens near the checkpoint.
Dr. Collins maintains his composure and pulls over quietly. He calmly asks, "Good evening, officer. What seems to be the problem here?"
The cop gruffly responds, "License and registration."
Dr. Collins makes sure that his 2 hands are visible at all times. He slowly reaches into the glove compartment to give this pig what he demands, "Here you go. This is my license, and this is my registration. Everything is in order, as you can see, officer."
The cop glowers at the doctor and goes off to crosscheck the documents with the computer inside of his cruiser. He's back with the doctor's stuff a few seconds later.
Dr. Collins places them back in their place. His expression is calm. He has that same deadpan, non-judgmental, placid look on his pale face.
The cop meanly asks, "You're that doctor for that hobo clinic, right? The one where all the deadbeat bums and washed-up single moms go to, right?"
Dr. Collins does not dignify such a comment with an answer, "Might I inquire as to why you stopped me, officer?"
The cop responds, "Because I can. I asked you a fucking question."
Dr. Collins tightens his grip on the steering wheel, a tight look of mild displeasure flashes across his face.
The cop raps his knuckles on the windshield and grits his teeth, "HEY! Talk to me, man! Are you or are you not the guy who runs that loser clinic?"
"Officer, with all due respect, I do believe that this unwarranted harassment is crossing a certain line here."
The cop barks, "The hell you talking about? What 'harassment'? All I'm doing is asking you a fucking question. Have you ever rendered medical aid to a criminal before?"
Dr. Collins plainly answers, "As a doctor, it is not my place to pass moral judgment on the nature or origin of my patients' ailments. I am a doctor, and it is my solemn duty to treat patients regardless of their social standing, economic condition, age, race, gender--"
The cop rudely cuts the vampire off, "Shut up! Out of the car, now!"
"Wha--"
The police officer raises his assault rifle and points it at Dr. Collins. The Stoker is in complete shock. What in the hell is going on here?!
His hands tremble slightly. The Beast within growls and rages and yearns for blood. He could easily take this guy on, pounce on him, rip him to shreds, and drain him of every last drop of blood.
It would be over in mere seconds, and Dr. Collins knows the human body pretty damn well. He knows the pressure points, all the vulnerable spots, all the weak points.
Not tonight, however. The Masquerade is of prime importance.
Dr. Collins could even leave the cop half-alive, with most of his extremities intact. The Beast within yearns for that. The Beast desires to see the fear, the terror, in this pig's eyes.
No. Not tonight.
The good doctor slowly exits his vehicle, making sure not to make any sudden moves or give the cop a reason to pull the trigger.
The cop keeps his distance. The other nearby cops join him; their assault rifles are drawn and pointed at the Stoker as well. They are very alert and wary, on edge.
The officer growls at the Fiend, "He refused to answer my simple goddamn question. I asked this fucking guy if he ever treated criminals and he--he didn't even deny it!"
A female cop shakes her head at this. She asks the doctor, "Did you treat criminals recently?"
Dr. Collins does not take his eyes off of the cops. He firmly replies, "I did not. No."
Another male cop chuckles, "Fucking liar! He's that hobo clinic guy, right?"
"Yeah!"
"Cuff him!"
As a cop is about to slap handcuffs around his wrists, a bulky SUV stops near the checkpoint, and a man steps out of it. He's dressed in a white shirt and black pants.
He's quite tall and heavyset. His face is clean-shaven, and his eyes are a deep shade of blue. He looks to be in his 40s, give or take a year. He has an easy smile on his face.
A police officer turns to the newcomer and angrily says, "Hey, get back! This guy is a potential suspect--"
The heavyset guy smirks and softly says something to the cop. Dr. Collins remains perfectly still and his eyes dart here and there. He's still on edge.
The cop immediately lowers his weapon and backs off, a blank stare on his face. The newcomer then moves to the female cop, who also lowers her rifle. He whispers something to her as well. She nods at him and walks off.
Dr. Collins recognizes him as none other than Mr. Lance.
(It appears that Mr. Lance over here is using the Dominate Discipline to help out his fellow Dragon.)
The Tzimisce turns to the remaining cop, who's still got his AR pointed at the doc. Mr. Lance shakes his head, smiles, and makes a come-hither motion with his fingers.
The cop cannot resist, so he trudges over and cocks his head. Mister Lance whispers something in his ear, and he, too, backs off and meanders off to another place.
That same cop calls out, "Eh...false alarm, people! Nothing to see here! Move! MOVE ON! GO!"
Dr. Collins sighs and shakes his head, "I was this close to filing an official complaint, you know."
Mr. Lance softly chuckles, "We can't have that now, can we?" His accent is American, flat and neutral.
Mr. Lance then cracks his neck and stretches his arms, "Ah, the cops, well, you know how it is, doctor. C'mon, follow me back to my place."
After some more wading through traffic...
Mr. Lance's Haven is just another standard gray residential building in Flimont City. The area around it is bustling with life. Cars roar down the highway at incredible speeds. The streetlamps appear to be in working order, and the pavement is well-maintained.
Mr. Lance's Haven is on the ground floor. His apartment has a rather Art Deco look to it, with some impressive pieces of art hanging around. The dcor is classy, with some pictures of a beautiful older lady and Mr. Lance next to her.
In 1 black-and-white picture, the older lady is seated, while Mr. Lance is standing, chest puffed out. There's a small inscription in the lower right corner that reads: "A mother's son. A mother's pride. A mother's delight."
Mr. Lance adjusts the golden frame and states, "She passed away 3 years, 7 months, and 2 nights after my Embrace."
The Tzimisce smiles sadly, "I was fortunate enough to have had her in my life, you know. I wish you could have known my mother, doctor. I feel that you both would have had much in common."
Mr. Lance himself was Embraced during the interwar years (the 1930s). He worked as muscle for a speakeasy that catered to certain...interested parties.
It was an exclusive joint, where the working girls, gangsters, and various unsavory types all drank, ate, gambled, and partied away. The mother knew of her son's job. She understood why he did it.
And she loved him anyway.
The mother herself worked as a clerk for a factory that manufactured heavy equipment. She had a stern look on her wrinkly face. Her hair was cut short. Her eyes were sharp and alert.
During the Great Depression, she lost her job and fell on some really hard times. There were times when she went to bed, hungry and cold and miserable.
Her son was the only source of income they had. The speakeasy was their only source of income, that's why she didn't say anything about his "career choice". She loved him because he was willing to roll up his sleeves for her.
Mr. Lance's father had died in the slaughterhouse of WW1, as did his 3 brothers. All of them were 19-20 years of age. He was the only one of his siblings who didn't go to war.
However, Mr. Lance drafted the dodge by working for some mobster. During the Great Depression, that same mobster got shot to death in his own office. A gangland hit, a message, whatever.
Mr. Lance soon found himself in the employ of whoever was running that speakeasy. He had the muscle to make sure that business ran smoothly and that the authorities either got their cut or remained none-the-wiser.
Mr. Lance's Sire first approached his mother. However, she turned down the opportunity of immortality, instead asking that he Embrace her son instead.
She wanted her boy to see the future, to live forever, and to have all the time in the world. Mr. Lance's Sire graciously obliged, but only after the mother made her son swear an oath- he would never use his immortality for his own gains and he was disallowed from ever joining the Sabbat.
Oh, and he was also prohibited from engaging in any kind of Flesh-Crafting/Vicissitude. And no Blood-Bonding with other vamps, too. Lastly, if he were to take a Ghoul, it would have to be a woman in her 30s.
Uh, yeah, sure. Fine, cool, whatever. Mr. Lance and his mom agreed to these (fairly) reasonable terms and conditions.
And many decades later, here he is, still kicking about the gaffe. He's had a good run, so far. He's kept his head low, stayed clear of trouble, and remained a steadfast and loyal Tzimisce.
(He's yet to find a Ghoul who meets his Sire's requirements, and wonders whether the hassle is worth the trouble of finding one.)
Dr. Collins sits on a plush black sofa as Mr. Lance sits right opposite him. The big guy clasps his hands together and begins, "So, how are things, doctor?"
Dr. Collins responds, "Going great. By the way, what you did back there..."
"Think nothing of it. You should consider yourself lucky. I was just coming back from buying new lightbulbs, and I saw that green car of yours near the police checkpoint. I knew it was you."
Dr. Collins frowns and adds, "Thank you, really. I--I didn't know what I would've done were it not for your timely intervention. What did you say to those cops, anyway?"
Mr. Lance shifts in his seat a little, "Just a pinch of Mesmerism on their scattered minds. I try not to push too hard."
("Mesmerism" is a Nickname for the Dominate Discipline).
Dr. Collins nods, "Ah, and once again...thank you. What the hell is going on with the police around here, huh?"
Mr. Lance replies, "Ever since those 2 cops got wasted, the others have been on high alert. They're nervous and angry, like cornered animals and such. They're just looking for someone to beat on, I guess."
The good doctor rubs his temples, "Yeah, that seems to be the case."
Mr. Lance muses, "Even in my time, Dr. Collins, the sound of the approaching paddy wagons was never a pleasant one..."
He smirks and adds, "But a little...sourdough, some quick thinking, and charm was all that was all that was needed to keep the 'law' at bay. The old-fashioned way. You know what I mean, right?"
Dr. Collins heaves a sigh and asks, "I guess. Sourdough??"
"Money, counterfeit. By the time the cops got wise to it, it was too late to do anything about it, heh heh."
Dr. Collins nods, "Ah. Hmph. You weren't actually gonna bribe them, were you?"
The other Tzimisce pauses for a moment, "It was a last-resort option. Bribes and the FCPD go well together, like peanut butter and jelly, hahahahaha!"
He's right. If you see a cop in Flimont City who won't take a bribe (in kind or in cash), you catch 'em and put 'em in a zoo with the national animal of Scotland.
Dr. Collins, having lived in Flimont City for quite some time now is well aware of this fact.
Mr. Lance inquires, "You never did get around to learning any of our Clan's Disciplines, right?"
Dr. Collins admits, "Truth be told, I've had no need for it. None whatsoever. If anything, it would hold me back as a physician, and I can't really have that."
Mr. Lance replies, "Hmm, you'd be surprised. It's not as bad as you think, though. We've got a lot to choose from, y'know. Animalism, Auspex, Vicissitude, Dominate, and Protean."
Dr. Collins scratches his nose, "Vicissitude is less of a Discipline and more of a--I don't know what to call it, really. Categorizing it is a pain, honestly. There's the good, and there's the bad in that...just like all other Disciplines and powers that are in our Blood."
"Fascinating stuff, huh? My Sire already forbade me from all the Flesh-Shaping stuff, but the other Disciplines were fair game, so I chose Dominate and did my best to master it throughout the years. I was told that it'd be pretty useful. It is, haha!"
Mr. Lance gestures to the doc and smiles proudly, "Just look at tonight, right?"
Dr. Collins acknowledges the point, "Hm. That was pretty useful, yes, but I've made my decisions already- no Disciplines for me. Ever. I have better use for my Blood...and my time. No offense."
Mr. Lance clicks his tongue and lazily waves, "Tch, please. None taken. I can imagine, being a doctor, curing all manner of ailments, studying those fancy writings, seeing to every ill and injury, and fixing broken hearts and shattered minds. Yeah, I understand that. I really do, doc."
Mr. Lance then leans forward, "Does it ever get too much for you? After all, you've been doing this a lot longer than your peers. I can't even imagine the stress that's weighing on you, the responsibilities, and such."
Dr. Collins is silent. He never really talks about the bad stuff. He does take pride in his work as a GP, but how long can it go on for? How long before someone catches on to the GP who never ages? How long before things start to crack?
Mr. Lance nods, "Yeah, I thought so. You're our Primogen now. I hope I don't speak out of place, but you really ought to consider your options down the line."
Dr. Collins dryly asks, "What do you mean by that?" There's a mildly defensive edge to his voice.
Mr. Lance respectfully proceeds, "All this modern technology, all this talk of terrorists, spies, and whatever. We're living in times of great change, Dr. Collins. I never would've imagined that THIS is the way things would've turned out in this new century, though."
"Hm. Yeah. My paperwork's in order. My knowledge is contemporary. My office is clean and well-stocked with the necessary equipment. The Primogen thing is...something I didn't ask for."
The doctor stares off into the distance and adds, "I have and will always be a doctor. It's the only thing I'm good at, it's what I've given most of my life- and Unlife- for. I have a Ghoul to take care of as well. I've got a lot on my plate, as you can see."
Mr. Lance chuckles, "Yeah. The Primogen thing, it's just 1 of those things you have to find a way of dealing with. You can't really refuse or say no to your...additional duties, y'know?"
"Hmm."
Mr. Lance senses the uneasiness in his fellow Stoker, and he can't really blame him for it.
So, he changes the subject by querying, "So...any news on Galeb yet?"
Ah, great. That annoying question. Again.
Dr. Collins holds back a groan and blandly answers, "No. Nothing. Not a peep. Or a squeak for that matter. Why? Have you heard something?"
Mr. Lance picks up on his guest's...discomfort and casually replies, "No. Nothing. Sorry, I just thought that you might've had something on him, that's all." He then adds, "He's been gone for quite some time now."
Dr. Collins sighs and remarks, "Hm. He has."
Mr. Lance opines, "Between me and you, I found Galeb to be quite a disagreeable man. In the weeks prior to his disappearance, he seemed strange to me."
Dr. Collins twitches a little, "Oh?"
"Mm-hmm. He was silent, contemplative, constantly staring at the ground, fingers steepled together...menacingly, like he was planning something...or maybe it was the toll of being an Elder..." Mr. Lance chuckles and adds, "Either way, it didn't sit right with me."
"I see. No one ever really spoke about it, but yeah, even I...err...noticed his strange behavior was as of late."
The doctor muses, "Maybe he was Beckoned away."
Mr. Lance looks clueless, "I have no idea what that means, doctor. Hm, yes. Either way, you're our Primogen now. We're hoping for great things from you, Dr. Collins."
The good doctor nods a bit and forces a smile, "Hm. I'll do my best to deliver. I guess it's worth saying that I'm not my predecessor, nor do I aim to ever be him."
Mr. Lance shrugs, "Ah, fair enough. Other than that, I haven't heard squat about Galeb."
"Hm. Right. Let's just focus on...more important matters for our Clan, like the redrawing of those boundaries. What else have you been up to as of late, Mr. Lance?"
"Aahh. Me, huh? We're just bumping gums here, right?"
"I believe that's what we're doing, yes. Why, is there some kind of trouble I ought to be aware of?" Dr. Collins leans forward a bit. The look on his face is calm, but his tone is level.
Mr. Lance shuffles on his seat and states, "Nothing that would count as a Masquerade breach. It's more of a concerned citizen...err...matter. Nothing at all." He flashes a toothy smile.
"A concerned citizen matter? Is that all?" The Stoker doesn't take his eyes off of his host.
Mr. Lance winces and budges, "I have blood delivered to me- discreetly, of course. The young dame who delivers my packages seems...quite off. I'm not sure of the appropriate words to be throwing around."
"Oh?"
"Y--Yes. I believe her name is Yumi. Never did get a last name, and I didn't feel right pressing her for it. Disturbingly thin, messy clothing, a sort of unhinged expression, and she was quite impolite with me."
Mr. Lance explains, "She's been making her deliveries, and I give her the dough and send her on her way."
Dr. Collins nods and comments, "OK. Sounds like you've got it under control. What seems to be the problem with this...Yumi?"
Mr. Lance clasps his hands together and exhales sharply, "She looked so...weak, so tired. She didn't have that...life...in her, that sparkle, if you catch my drift."
The Stoker then adds, "She seemed more like a Ghoul that was off her fix. But I asked around and nobody I know has a Ghoul named Yumi. I gave her a sawbuck..." he trails off.
(Sawbuck is 1930s slang for a $10 bill).
Mr. Lance pauses. He's got something else on his mind. Dr. Collins notices the shift in his fellow Stoker's demeanor.
Mr. Lance shakes his head and chuckles to himself, "She--she--her eyes lit up. She thanked me profusely and went on her way. I felt so sorry for her."
Dr. Collins has met Yumi before- she was the one desperately demanding OxyContin from the good doctor. He didn't get her name all those nights ago. She was practically begging for a prescription of that stuff, poor lass.
Regardless, he strokes his chin and thinks out loud, "Hm. Maybe she's just going through a rough patch right now." He pauses for a second, then continues, "Could you send her my way the next time you see her, Mr. Lance?"
Mr. Lance bows his head slightly, "Of course, doctor. It would be my pleasure. You have a real knack for helping these kinds of people out, eh?"
Dr. Collins stolidly responds, "Someone's gotta do it, and I have the time...and the experience."
Mr. Lance gets up from his seat with a slight groan. He pulls a map of Flimont City from his bookshelf and lays it out on the large table in his dining room.
He rolls out the city map and pulls up his marker- a chunky red thing, one of those fine permanent markers. Dr. Collins stands across the table as his fellow Fiend begins to mark this already marked map with a series of crosses and other marks.
He's currently marking out what counts as Tzimisce feeding grounds- this is territory where they can freely hunt in.
"As you can clearly see, we have a good and fair chunk of the city right now. The question is, will that change in the next few nights?" he asks while marking.
Dr. Collins dryly notes, "Things change at a moment's notice around here, Mr. Lance."
"Yes. Take a look here..." Mr. Lance directs his guest's attention to a rather large area labelled "Beaumont Boulevard". There's a massive question mark scrawled in red ink over this part.
The big guy sighs and asks, "This part right here has been contested for quite some time now. Beaumont Boulevard is Baali country. As a result, we've stayed well clear of those...Demon Worshippers. And it's French, too. Haha!"
Dr. Collins faintly chuckles at that and asks, "So, what seems to be the issue over here?"
"The Ventrue have had their eyes on it, too. As do we. Only the Gangrel and the Malkavians are uninterested. As you can see here..." Mr. Lance's finger traces a line at the edge of Beaumont Boulevard, where it sort of intersects with Ventrue territory.
He points to a block on the western end, "There's a block here that's just full of banks, law firms, and other Ventrue-affiliated businesses. Now those Blue Bloods want more of the pie for themselves."
He taps his marker on Beaumont Boulevard and explains, "This is a big apple, Dr. Collins, but it's not big enough for all of us. The Baali are deeply entrenched in Beaumont Boulevard, and that's even where their Coven is located, or so I've been told."
Dr. Collins rubs his chin. He's silent and deep in thought, "So, what's our interest in Beaumont Boulevard, then? Are the Baali willing to deal?"
"They most certainly are," Mr. Lance confidently answers.
"And what exactly is the deal we're looking at here?"
"The Unholy will permit us to feed in and around Beaumont Boulevard, provided we allow them to make a few small expansions here and here," Mr. Lance answers while circling 2 spots that are firmly Dragon territory.
The other Tzimisce squints, "Expansions for what purpose, Mr. Lance?" He's not liking what he's hearing at the moment.
Mr. Lance shrugs, "Territorial, I suppose? Maybe it's something to do with those...rituals they conduct down in their Coven. Hey, you're the Primogen, shouldn't you be more aware of this?"
Dr. Collins crosses his arms and comments, "It's my 1st time hearing all of this. There's no Baali Primogen on the Council, but I think there are talks about maybe having one. Does the name 'Pierre Despard' ring any bells?"
Mr. Lance smiles, "Yes, it certainly does, Dr. Collins. I believe that he is in charge of the Baali's Coven right below Beaumont Boulevard. Strange fish, that one. French, haha!"
"Hmm. What's the status of our other territories within the Domain? How's it holding up? I've been meaning to go and take a look myself, but I've been busy with work. I've sent Brock to check in on a few people, and they seem fine."
Mr. Lance replies, "It's holding up well. The Gangrel are mostly concentrated on 5th Street. The Malkavians are, well, all over the place. The rest is firmly Ventrue."
Dr. Collins points out, "There's Brujah, too. Former Anarchs. They want in, but Prince Antonio's put an impossible asking price for a seat at the table."
"Ah. I see. Well, that's gonna be...interesting. Galeb had a knack for making sure that our territory remained ours, if only because the Ventrue tend to destroy anyone who dares to feed in their places, or on their people."
Dr. Collins responds, "Mm-hmm. And Prince Antonio is pretty much looking to make sure that that never changes."
Mr. Lance smiles, "Not to worry, if we can come to an arrangement with the Baali over the next few nights, then I'm confident that everything will turn out great in the long run. Everyone around here wants a slice of the pie for themselves, doc."
Dr. Collins mildly chuckles, "That they certainly do. It's just a matter of...equally divvying up the slices, right?"
"'Ventrue' and 'equally' don't usually find themselves in the same sentence, Dr. Collins. Oddly enough, the same could be said of the Brujah."
Dr. Collins clears his throat and takes a good and long look at the heavily marked map of the city before him. He's now got some light insight into the internal workings of his own Clan.
The territorial politics alone were quite a surprise, though. The Tzimisce don't really have much when it comes to hunting grounds. Their feeding opportunities appear scant, that's why they're interested in expanding.
There are quite a lot of Tzimisce here, but there isn't enough space or resources for all of them, especially when one considers the Ventrue's habit of exterminating anyone who is in the wrong place at the wrong time.
(Sheriff Velma has no issue destroying any non-Ventrue caught messing around in Ventrue territory, of which there's a lot, some of which bleeds into Malkavian territory).
The Gangrel are mostly concentrated in (and around) 5th Street and other poorer or deprived neighborhoods around F-City.
Dr. Collins thinks to himself, "Wow. I really didn't know that this wall all that we had. Hm. Something's gotta give; it can't go on like this. It just...can't. Our Clan's growing, and we need the space to sustain that growth."
He narrows his eyes and continues in his silent contemplation, " I mean, look at this: the Ventrue's got more room than anyone else...they're even right on top of Malk territory, how do they even tolerate that? Do they even know that they're on top of each other? Hmm..."
The doctor finally turns his gaze away from the map and faces the big dude who's been patiently waiting for him to finish looking it over.
"A penny for your thoughts?"
"Things need to change around here."
"You and me both, buddy. You and me both."
Mr. Lance proceeds to roll up the city map and puts it back from where he retrieved it. The good doctor thanks him and promises that he'll give these issues a more thorough review before his next Primogen Council meeting.
The conversation then drifts to them talking about their families (mostly Mr. Lance), their hobbies, current happenings, and whatnot.
For a guy who was muscle at a speakeasy (he still talks like one sometimes), Mr. Lance has adapted remarkably well to the current year's mannerisms, ways of speaking, and such.
He's a learned man, one who's picked up all manner of skills throughout his long years. Mr. Lance currently works as a payroll processor for a family-run trucking company- quite the far cry from hired muscle at a speakeasy!
It's a very manual, paper-heavy, and system-restricted kinda job. There's a whole lotta clicking, typing, checking, and printing involved. Sometimes Mr. Lance has to physically handle check runs and such.
"I've been at it for about 6 years now. A lot of my co-workers are...on the lam, if you catch my drift."
Dr. Collins leans forward, "Oh?"
"Mm-hmm. Good people who simply fell on some hard times and made a few mistakes- some more severe than others, mind you. I can relate to their experiences."
Mr. Lance gestures to a picture of his mother when she was younger, "Y'know, doctor, she...gave me this chance. She could've easily taken the gift of Unlife for herself, but she wanted..."
His voice breaks a little. It's obvious that Mr. Lance's mum means a great deal to him, even after all this time. He recovers with a sigh and continues, "She wanted me to be happy, y'see? She wanted her last and remaining son to...live forever."
He's now smiling fondly and rubbing the side of his face as he gazes at the photograph of his mother as a young lady, "Losing her husband and her 3 boys- my brothers- to that pointless goddamn fucking war...excuse the language. It--it really affected her, y'know?"
Dr. Collins nods along and affirms, "Mm-hmm. Yes, yes, I do. War is...it's not a fun movie, it's not a damn game, it's...cruel and grueling and--and...well, I--I was there--" he stares at the ground, a clear look of anguish in his dead eyes.
The then-mortal Dr. Collins himself was in France during WW2, so he speaks from experience.
Mr. Lance can see the trauma, the suffering, in his fellow Dragon's eyes, but he doesn't prod any further.
Instead, he continues talking, "Momma said that I was all she had left, y'know? She said she was gonna be damned before she let anything take me away from her as well. War, disease, whatever. She couldn't lose another boy to the horrors, doc. She just couldn't."
"So, she let you get Embraced in her stead."
Mr. Lance solemnly nods, "She's my mom and she will always be. Giving up a chance at--at immortality and--and power so that I can...so that I could have another chance, another shot at things...it just goes to show...y'know?"
"Sounds like quite a woman, indeed, Mr. Lance. Selfless to a fault."
Mr. Lance fully agrees with a nod of the head, "Hmm, yeah. She'd seen a lot, y'know? Been through a lot, too. She married young, real young...too young by modern standards, but times were very different back then."
"They sure were."
The talk between these 2 vampires goes on for a few more minutes.
"My job's pretty different from the speako, lemme tell ya that much! Same goes for my previous jobs, haha! Most of the time I spend involves me being glued to a damn spinning chair, hahahahaha!"
After a fairly pleasant chat, Dr. Collins stands up, exchanges a firm and tight handshake with his fellow Tzimisce, and takes his leave. He's gonna go and see Dr. Sarah now.
Dr. Collins promises Mr. Lance that he'll talk about expanding Tzimisce territory at the next Primogen Council meeting, whenever that's scheduled for.
"I'll do my best, Mr. Lance. And please, send this Yumi woman my way the next time she pops around. I usually have time to spare. And who knows? Maybe she DOES need a bit of help, a friendly ear and a helping hand. It never hurts to reach out and see what can be done."
Mr. Lance walks with his guest to the front door, "Indeed! She certainly has the look of someone in desperate need of some aid. She looks so...directionless, purposeless, and weak. It worries me a little."
Dr. Collins stops in his tracks, "Hm? Truth be told, that describes more than half this city on nights like these."
Mr. Lance cocks an eyebrow, "Oh?"
Dr. Collins bitterly says, "Mm-hmm. You live in Flimont City for so long, you start to forget what decency even looks like. Money seems to be the only thing that certain people around here give a damn about, and it's disconcerting...to say the least."
Mr. Lance chimes in, "Disheartening, too. This new century was supposed to be full of promise, full of hope. Yet I've only seen disappointment, dreams and wishes dashed to a 1000 tiny little pieces."
Dr. Collins gives him a sympathetic look. Mr. Lance pensively lowers his head and faintly smiles at his fellow Tzimisce, so as not to end this on a bad and sour note.
(Mr. Lance, like literally anybody else, is not immune from the overarching social, economic, historical, and political processes of the times. He, too, has his limitations. We all do.)
The good doctor pats Mr. Lance's shoulder, "Please, stay in touch. And come by the clinic whenever you're not too busy. Make an appointment first."
Mr. Lance plainly nods and ushers his guest out of his Haven with a wide farewell smile, "Thanks for dropping by, doc. Take care on those roads, y'hear?"
He lifts his finger and pointedly adds, "I won't be there the next time, to bail you out of a sticky situation with the law."
Dr. Collins slightly winces at that. His memory of having that AR pointed at him was most unpleasant, to say the very least. He really has to find a way around these maniacal, trigger-happy cops who are just looking for a reason to pop you, cuff you, and/or have you fitted out for a Chicago overcoat.
Dr. Collins says his final goodbye to his fellow vampire, "You have yourself a good rest of the evening, Mr. Lance. We'll speak again soon. I'm sure of it."
Mr. Lance waves, smiles, and bids the good doctor farewell as he gets into his vehicle. It's the good doctor's time to depart, to be on his way to see the dentist at her place of work.
As the good doctor drives off, Mr. Lance goes to his bedside table and pulls out a small antique silver box. He gently opens it and pokes his stubby finger at the contents within.
Inside the box are a few locks of hair- Mr. Lance's mother's hair, to be precise. Those locks of hair are what helps this Tzimisce stay Grounded. As long as he day-sleeps with it close by, Mr. Lance can keep his head on straight.
If he ever loses those precious locks of hair, then he'll wake up a VERY grumpy bloodsucker, paining all over. And nobody wants that, so Mr. Lance keeps his mum's hair close to him at all times. It's the least he can do for her.
She gave him this chance, after all. He tells himself that he owes her everything. Everything.
Dr. Collins is now back on the dark roads. He drives slowly (even slower than usual, so as to not arouse any more unwanted attention). He takes longer and more traffic-ridden routes just to avoid another run in with the oink, oink.
The streets are bare, desolate, and not as lively as the doc was expecting. His car cruises along the uneven pavement as he watches the streetlamps on his right flicker. As do the streetlamps on the left.
"Looks like it's time to get the city council to look into this issue. Heh."
The Stoker drives slowly, almost too slow, like he's afraid he's gonna get pulled over again and have a crazy cop point their gun at him and start hurling accusations at him. The doc drives well under the speed limit.
His eyes are firmly fixed on the road, and he pays close attention to what's around him. He's on edge. Very, very on edge. He tightly grips the steering wheel and keeps driving to Dr. Sarah's dental practice.
While on the road, he spots a silhouette of a...woman (?) walking down the sidewalk. The trees overhead provide a bit of cover, so he can't really make out her features.
She appears to be barefoot, carrying her cheap-looking high heels in 1 hand. Dr. Collins slows down and spots...none other than Roxanne, the Brujah sex worker.
Roxy's dressed in a white shirt with the topmost buttons undone. Her capri pants look worn out, and her hair's a bit messy.
The lady of the night has a neutral expression on her face, looking like she just came out of a very bland session of vanilla sex. She's standing there, breathing a little heavy, her bare feet planted on the dirty pavement.
She walks with a sense of urgency, her head tilted forward, staring at the pavement beneath her.
Dr. Collins pulls up beside her and calls out, "Roxanne?"
The Punk almost jumps, but she catches herself and smiles at the doc. Her face lights up a little, and her body relaxes as she leans over the window.
She opens her mouth and speaks in a warm and friendly tone, "Oh, good evening, Doctor Collins. What are you doing here on this 'lovely' night, hmm? Same as me? Seeing to your clients, hm?"
Dr. Collins shakes his head and faintly chuckles, "They're my patients, Roxanne. It's a different line of work. Get in, I'll give you a ride to wherever it is that you're headed."
She's silent for a few seconds, and then asks, "Are you sure? You look busy. I wouldn't want to impose on you. And I need the walk, that last customer...was, ugh, awful."
The doctor sighs and asks (out of concern), "You do practice some form of safe sex, don't you?"
"'Course, sugar. Always." Roxy takes the good doc up on his offer and gets in his car. He asks about why she's walking barefoot, and she tells him that she had to ditch her heels, because they were killing her dead feet.
Dr. Collins drives again, still slow as a turtle. The sex worker, on the other hand, is all smiles as she reclines in the passenger seat. The wind blows gently into her pale face.
Roxanne smirks, "You do know that you can make this baby go a lot faster, right? There are barely any cars out, which is a...surprise to be honest. It's not every night that these streets are this empty."
"I've seen better nights," the doctor plainly responds. His voice is steady, calm, and cold. His eyes are focused on the road.
Roxanne stretches her arm out of the window and lets out a soft and gentle sigh as the wind blows through her twirling fingers. This part of the city is so silent.
Dr. Collins tells her, "I'll have to check in on your sister tomorrow night. Any changes in her condition? Any problems?" He gives the prostitute a quick glance but then returns his gaze to the road ahead.
Roxanne hums wistfully and shrugs, "Nope. Penny's still...the way she is. I don't know if that's a good thing or a bad thing, though."
"Hmm. Is there something wrong with her?" the doctor asks with genuine concern.
Roxy gulps, "Nah. Do you think that there's a chance she might, y'know, wake up from her coma anytime soon??" Her baggy eyes are laden with desperation, with a dash of fear, and a smidgen of hope.
Dr. Collins is silent. He's silent for a few moments as he thinks about it. He finally exhales softly and tells her, "It's hard to say, Roxanne. I might be a Presbyterian, but I remain skeptical about...miracles or other supernatural phenomena."
The Brujah snickers and points out, "We're vampires, honey. Damned from the very moment those fangs sunk deep into our necks. All we've probably got is a...small bit of hope, the slightest sliver of assurance that maybe we're not, you know, totally damned after all."
"Hmm. Maybe."
Roxanne bitterly remarks, "Well, I don't know what's going on up there, but if there is a God out there, then he or she or they hate my fucking guts, y'know?"
Dr. Collins stays focused on the dark night road ahead, "What do mean by that, Roxanne?"
Roxanne clicks her tongue and lazily waves her hand, "Don't mind me. I'm just musing in the corner. You know, doc, at the speed at which you're driving, we'd have already arrived wherever. Why are you driving so slowly?"
Dr. Collins sighs and recounts the events that transpired earlier in the night.
By the end of it all, Roxanne shakes her head and grimaces, "Cops. Yeah, I've had my fair share of kissing the pavement. It sucks."
Dr. Collins is silent, his face expressionless. He's not so sure how to respond.
"Mm. This city never really sleeps, huh?" Roxanne observes.
Dr. Collins responds, "You tell me, you're the one usually out and about...working. What is it like?"
"It depends on the customer, sugar. And their mood, and their pay. Desires and preferences, too. Sometimes it's good money, sometimes it's just...some sad sack who wants to be with a lady, a nice, pretty lady, someone to tell them they're that really, really special, y'know?"
"Hm. I see. I hope I'm not overstepping my boundaries here, but has anyone ever tried to...harm o--or hurt you?" The good doctor catches himself from saying more.
Roxanne smiles weakly, "I know what you're getting at, doc. I've been in this game a long time now. Some folk like it rough, and some want to pay for the privilege of me stepping all over them, heh. Either way, I'm a Brujah, remember? We bite hard and punch harder."
Dr. Collins's eyebrows shoot up, "So, you're capable of staying safe out there. Good, I guess. What if a client asks you to something...degrading or wants something like that done to them in return? Do you have lines that you don't cross, no matter what?"
Roxanne shrugs a shoulder, snickers, and sweetly says, "If the pay's good, but you'll be surprised by how...lacking in imagination some people around here can be. It's usually the same dog and pony show with my...customers."
She giggles and adds, "It goes from 'Step on me, mommy' to 'I'm gonna fuck you senseless, sweetheart'. There's a lot of exciting variation in there, too. Heh."
Dr. Collins blinks a few times, "Wow. That's--yeah. Wow."
Roxanne nonchalantly remarks, "Eh. They pay for a good time with a good gal. I have a question for you, doc."
"Shoot."
The Brujah sex worker lifts her chin and sniffs, "What's it like to make a Ghoul?"
"I'm not sure I follow you, Roxanne. What do you mean by that?"
The Punk vaguely gesticulates, "What's the process of...turning somebody into a Ghoul? Is it painful? What does it entail?"
Dr. Collins blandly states, "They would need to take 3 sips of your Blood. You could give it them...from your wrist or any other part of your body, for that matter. If you don't wanna Bind them, put the Blood in a bowl and have them drink from it. After the 3rd time, they're yours."
Roxanne leans back in her seat and squints, "Huh. Interesting." She rubs her neck and continues, "I've been thinking of making a Ghoul, Dr. Collins..."
"Oh?"
The sex worker smiles a little, "Mm-hmm. Jadwiga. She watches over my sister, and finding a good caretaker was as hard as finding the late Dr. Nash, may he rest in peace."
Dr. Collins inquires, "You don't wanna lose her? Why? I know Jadwiga, she's a good and decent person. But even I can't tell how she'd react to finding out you're a Kindred."
"I know her, doc. I've known her for a long time, longer than most, really. If there's 1 thing I know about her, it's that she's loyal. That's...good for a potential Ghoul to have, right? Loyalty?"
Dr. Collins tells her, "Sure, but it can border on sycophancy if not handled with care. Our Blood's powerful, and when it interacts with mortals, it...does things to their bodies, their psyches, their whole being."
The good doctor pauses for a few moments. He then says, "As much as I hate to say it, the Blood Bond can have...drastic effects. Jadwiga might get too attached to you and forget about watching over your sister. It's happened before."
Roxanne stares at the city going past her, "What's it like? What do you feel when you make a new Ghoul? Are there any...euphoric sensations involved? Or is it just a power trip? I mean, the Ghouls can't just go around and do whatever they want, right?"
Dr. Collins blinks and cocks an eyebrow, "What do you mean by that?"
Roxy shrugs, "I've heard stories about Ghouls who broke away from their masters, but they still need that red stuff. They supposedly hunt us down on these nights, just for their uh...fix, I guess."
"Who told you that?"
The Punk snickers, "C'mon, sugar? Do you really believe that ALL my clients draw breath, hmm?"
The realization dawns on Dr. Collins, "Oh. I see. Yeah, there are Independent Ghouls out there. Their existence is both free...and perilous."
Roxanne scratches the back of her ear, "I can imagine."
The good doctor explains, "Most of 'em, from my understanding, broke away from really cruel Domitors. Of course, they still need Kindred Blood if they wanna keep going and getting it is not as easy as it sounds, as I'm sure you're well aware of."
"Yeah. That's the whole reason why I haven't gone out and tried making 1 myself, yet." Roxanne glances at her companion.
Dr. Collins points out, "I don't blame some Ghouls for going Independent. Maybe they saw an opening and seized it, who knows? Point is, it's a dangerous- and constant- struggle for a continual existence."
Roxy laughs, "Yeah, and to keep those charming, good looks going on forever and ever, right?"
"Heh, yeah, that too."
Roxanne regards the doc with narrowed eyes, "You honestly don't look like the type to be doing this late-night driving-through-the-city stuff."
"..."
The Brujah gently nudges him with her fist, "Hm. Fine, keep your secrets. But if you're gonna be checking in on my dear sister, then I expect at least a little bit of an explanation on why you're all the way out here at this time of the night."
"Clan-related matters." He's got nothing to hide from her.
"Hm. Intriguing. Might this pretty damsel inquire about the specifics, hm?"
Dr. Collins dryly replies, "Territorial redrawing, or so we hope."
"Ooh, that sounds really fun and exciting! Care to tell me a little about it? I'm not trying to be nosy or anything. I'm just...curious, is all."
Dr. Collins stays silent for a bit as he thinks at a red light stop. He then tells the Punk, "Sure. So, the Tzimisce Clan has been...growing, but we don't have nearly as many hunting grounds as we'd like."
"Ah. And Mr. Primogen here is gonna look into that? Is he gonna go around and look for land to expand the territory, or will he try to work it out with some of the other Clans?"
Dr. Collins shrugs, "We don't know for sure."
His tone becomes grimmer, "All I know is that something's gotta give, Roxanne. It just...can't go on like this. I saw the map- the Ventrue have a whole lot more land than us. The Malkavians and the Gangrel have enough for their numbers."
"Ooh. Fascinating. I know the Baali have a presence in this city, what about their allotments, huh?"
"Beaumont Boulevard is theirs- entirely. We're thinking of approaching them so we can, ah, reach an arrangement. Hopefully."
Roxanne frowns a little, "That's gonna be a hard sell, lemme tell ya that much, sugar."
The traffic light turns orange and the cars around the 2 yapping vamps begin to rev up, their many engines purring softly or growling harshly. The light changes to green and the vehicles proceed.
Dr. Collins lets out a heavy sigh and continues, "Yeah, I'm aware of that. If it were up to me, we'd be going after the Ventrue, but the fact remains that the Ventrue are more powerful than the rest of us put together at the moment."
Roxy pouts, "Aww, well that sucks, doesn't it? Maybe something ought to be done about it." There's a mischievous undertone in her voice that the doctor doesn't pick up on.
Dr. Collins simply tells her, "There's not much that I can do about it, Roxanne. Sure, I'm Primogen, but these--these political games, schemes, and boundary-setting, they're far above my head. I'm not an expert or anything."
He sighs and continues, "I'm a doctor, not a damn policymaker."
Roxanne smiles widely, "Well, maybe that's just what this city needs. A doctor, not a traditional policymaker or quote-unquote 'born ruler'"
"Hm. What do you mean?"
"Look at it from my perspective, doc. The whore's perspective, heh heh, from down in the gutter. Word on the street is that the Brujah Clan wants a seat at Prince Antonio's table, right?"
"Well, yes. You're not with them though, right?"
Roxanne sweetly smiles at the good doctor, "No I'm not, sugar. It's just not a simple matter of dividing up our resources evenly. It's that cut and dry, really."
Dr. Collins shakes his head, "No, it's not. The Ventrue take up more territory, despite the fact that there aren't many of them. If they were willing to maybe...share or divvy up their allotments to make things even, then the problem would be solved. I know that much."
Roxanne softly scoffs, "That's not how it works, doc. The Blue Bloods around here have enough resources and power to put up a real fight. They'd sooner go to war than cede an inch to...anyone."
"You know this how?"
Roxy shrugs, "A few inferences, some pillow talk with some Ventrue who are clients of mine, y'know, the usual."
"Ah. They--they wouldn't go THAT far, though, would they? I know how Ventrue work. I've studied their Compulsions and Banes, but even they know that going to war over land is...it's a foolish endeavor."
"The Monarchs are no fools, sugar." She has that sort of even, calm tone when saying that.
Dr. Collins grimly remarks, "If the Brujah and the others can't agree on the distribution of our...limited land, then--then--"
Roxanne finishes his grim thoughts, "You'll be in a pretty tough bind, won't you? Clans Gangrel and Malkavian would likely be forced to give up their feeding grounds, as would you Dragons. Oof, that would sting."
The good doctor sighs, "This is--this is the whole reason why I'm out here tonight. To try and secure some kind of good deal for our Clan. I don't even know if the Brujah are gonna get a seat at the table, though."
"Oh. And why is that?" Roxanne dreamily looks out the window and watches the city go past her in a slow, almost idyllic (but not quite) manner.
Dr. Collins dryly answers her, "The Ventrue are real, real greedy around here. Prince Antonio has demanded, I shit you not, 1 million dollars from the Brujah for a seat at his Court. It's crazy."
Roxanne is taken aback by that, and her eyes widen, "WHAT?! Whoa, whoa, whoa! Stop the car. 1 million dollars? What the hell is that guy putting in his blood???" She's genuinely dumbfounded and flabbergasted.
Dr. Collins pulls over, and Roxanne massages her forehead with her fingers, "Wow. Hmph. Sweet baby J. Do they have that kind of money lying around?"
"I think you already know the answer."
The Punk shakes her head and looks away from the Stoker. She bites her lip and forces a deep breath, "Yeah, I know that Prince Antonio is a greedy son of a bitch who runs this city like a goddamn mafia boss. I know the extortion rackets he's got going on, too."
Dr. Collins lowers his head, feeling somewhat ashamed for being a part of this corrupt and self-serving machine. He then tells her, "How do you know all this, Roxanne? And why are you telling me?"
Roxanne mirthlessly chuckles, "C'mon, sugar. There's no such thing as whore-client confidentiality. When people see each other naked, they...talk and do other naughty stuff. And some of them mistake me for a priest taking confessions."
"Ah. It's dangerous, y'know. Those kinds of secrets, they can put a target on your back if you're not careful. You could wind up making an enemy out of the wrong individual...or individuals."
The Punk stares off into the dark night, and her voice softens a bit, "Oh, I know, sugar. I know. But, pfft, c'mon. Really, who in the hell is gonna suspect, let alone look at, the prostitute when things get pear-shaped?"
She lazily waves her hand and chuckles, "Nah, I'll take my risks. If worse comes to worst, I can punch, bite, and slash my way out. No biggie for a Rebel like me, heh."
Dr. Collins smiles a little at that. He looks down at the dashboard and then back up at the road ahead of him, "Yeah, it's 1 hell of a gamble, I'll give you that."
Roxanne fixes a stern gaze on the doc and firmly says, "All I know is that something's gotta change around here, and in a big way."
The Stoker's eyebrows go up at that pointed remark and he stammers, "I--I. Maybe you're right, but what, how? Where would we even begin, who would even bring about this 'big change' you're talking about? This city's been pretty much stable for the last 100 years, Roxanne."
Roxy doubles down, a furious passion igniting in her dead eyes, "'Stable'? Stable for who, exactly? You think they've got the measure of things? The real deal? Think again."
She's glowering at him, now, expression stern and determined. She's got this angry, fiery, and utterly intense look on her face. It's kinda off-putting, to be honest.
Dr. Collins blinks, "W--What do you mean by that? You're...what, talking about...changing the leadership around--" he catches himself before finishing his sentence.
Through gritted teeth, Roxanne growl-hisses, "That's a damn good option, doctor."
Dr. Collins winces and slowly moves away from her, "Y--You'd...go that far?"
The Rabble slams the dashboard with her open palm, "Damn right I would! I'm tired of having this--this fucking mob boss with delusions of grandeur run us into the ground a--and keep us there! You won't believe the stories that I've heard about him!"
She looks like she's on the verge of blowing a gasket and going hog-wild (and not in the fun way) all over the place.
(That would be the Brujah Clan Bane- their Violent Temper- manifesting itself rather passionately within Roxanne's Unliving being).
Dr. Collins quickly calms her down, "Alright, alright, Roxanne, calm down. Sure, as much as I hate to say it, Roxanne, the fact remains that things just can't go on the way they are."
"EXACTLY!" Roxy screams out. She follows it up with another slam of the dashboard, "What kind of future do we even have here, huh?! It's not even worth it when--when we're barely fucking hanging on--" her voice breaks and she covers her face.
"Roxanne--"
The prostitute leans forward, resting her elbows on her knees, and sighs, "Look, doc, I know you don't get this. I don't expect you to understand, but it's tough out there, OK? Selling my cold, immortal body, night after night just so I can survive. So...Penny gets all the care that she needs."
She sniffles and some tears of blood trickle down her cheeks. She wipes her nose, "I love my sister, doc. She's all I have left, y'know? And I'm gonna take care of her, damn it!"
Dr. Collins reaches out and slowly puts his hand on Roxy's tense shoulder, "Shh. Shh. Easy. I mean, I--I'm all for it, but you've got to think about the implications of--of going after the Ventrue. They're deeply entrenched in this city. It--it could, it could trigger a war of unprecedented scale. We wouldn't survive, let alone come out on top."
Roxy sniffles, "I know, I know, but I can't...may--maybe we could, together, y'know? The doctor and the hooker."
Dr. Collins sighs and asks, "Do what, exactly?"
"I DON'T KNOW, DAMMIT! ALL I KNOW IS THAT THIS SHIT CAN'T GO ON LIKE THIS! AAAAAAAAAAARGH!" Her guttural screaming fills the night air, and Dr. Collins winces and shrinks away from the angry prostitute.
He gulps and tells her, "It's not easy being a...Brujah, Roxanne. I know your Clan's Compulsions and Banes. I've studied them, extensively. You're angry, passionate, but that can be...dangerous, especially when it...boils over and--"
She shoots him a fierce stare, "I--I'm not...crazy or anything, doc. Don't patronize me. You have no idea how cruel this city is, Doctor Collins. No idea at all." Her fangs are out, and her teeth are gritted in a very threatening, furious, and dangerous way.
Dr. Collins tries to reassure her, "I believe you, Roxanne, I really do. And I'm on your side here, I promise you that. It's--it's exhausting, yes."
The Fiend gulps and concedes, "Yeah, s--something's gotta change around here...and in a major way. God, I--I can't even believe we're discussing this."
As if feeling someone's listening in, Dr. Collins looks out his car window and around. Once he's satisfied that there's nobody out there, he faces the lady of the night again and leans in close, but not too close- those fangs look sharp!
He lowers his voice, "Listen, Roxanne. This has been an interesting conversation--"
Roxanne scoffs at him, "Pfft. Interesting. WE need to do something other than sit around and TALK!"
"But what?!" Dr. Collins snaps back.
Roxy gasps and jerks away from him, "Well, uh, I--" she frowns at the good doctor, "I, um..."
She lowers her head, "I--I don't exactly know. All I know is that this arrangement sucks. Old ain't always gold, y'know."
Dr. Collins exhales, "Yep. It certainly ain't. Why do I feel like I'm committing treason over here?"
The Punk chuckles and takes his cold hand in her equally cold hand. She rubs the top of it with her thumb and replies, "We'll find a way to do this together. You're a smart guy and I've got plenty of street experience, so I'm sure we'll figure out some way to make this work, y'know?"
Dr. Collins looks at Roxanne's thumb moving across the top of his hand. It's slow and methodical, almost sensual. He looks up at her and then back down at her thumb, "Yeah. Yeah, Oh, god. Th--this is nuts. If anyone ever got wind--"
Roxanne clicks her tongue and smugly says, "Psssssh. Please. They've got their heads so far up their asses, they wouldn't even see us coming until we're right on top of them. By then, heh, it'll be too late."
The good doctor is silent. He's just processing everything that's going on right now. Is...is this even happening? Does mandem have to pinch himself to make sure that he's not still stuck in the clutches of his morning slumber.
Is this some crazy Kindred fever dream?
Nope, this is all really real. And it's happening. The green car, the cold hand of this sex worker, the disturbingly determined look on her face- everything about it, about this moment, feels very real to him.
Roxy's eyes narrow, "The Ventrue in this city are real smart, real savvy, and real resourceful. If we're gonna humble 'em and take 'em down a notch or 2, we'll need to be all of that, too. We've gotta out-scheme and out-maneuver these sons of bitches."
Dr. Collins stares at her for a few moments, "I..." words don't seem to be forming.
Roxanne firmly grips his hand, "What do you say, doc? I don't know how else to go about this, but I feel like you're the only one who can see what needs to be done. I really dunno who else to trust now, y'know?"
"..."
The Brujah smiles softly, "I'll take that as a 'Yes, I'm totally in. Let's go mess up some Ventrue.'"
Dr. Collins stammers, "No. I mean, yes. Argh, damn it. You...make good points, Roxanne. But 2 of us against Prince Antonio, all of the Ventrue, Ventrue politics, Ventrue resources, and Ventrue muscle?"
Roxanne nods and confidently says, "Damn straight I do, sugar. We've got to strike NOW, before they can do any damage to us, to our respective Clans, or to...the people we hold dear."
Whoa.
Dr. Collins inhales and exhales, sharply forcing air into his dead, shriveled-up lungs. He looks at Roxanne and calmly asks her, "Do you really believe that we can pull this off?"
Roxanne smiles brightly, "We've got nothing to lose and everything to gain."
She looks out the window at the few trees dotting the landscape and the darkened streets, "Trying's all we can afford to do at the moment. If there's anything I've learned from my time sucking dicks and licking clits, it's that."
Dr. Collins looks out at his side of the car. His eyes wander and he stares at the city beyond him, lights shining brightly in the far distance.
Roxanne interjects, "Look, doc, I'm not the brightest bulb on the tree, alright? But when things are most desperate and when a person thinks they've got nothing left to lose, they're willing to do all sorts of stuff to protect the ones that matter the most. To...make it, to survive."
Dr. Collins nods, "That's...fascinating. I never thought of it that way."
"Well, you don't see the world for what it really is until you've been in my Prada knockoffs, doc."
The Tzimisce sighs deeply, "I've seen things, alright. I was in France during World War 2, so I've seen things when they weren't exactly at their best, far from it in fact."
Roxanne offers, "Oooh. You poor thing." Her thumb continues to rub the top of his hand.
Dr. Collins winces, "Yeah. I--I mean, it's not like that horrific war is anything comparable to...whatever the hell it is we're planning here, but if it backfires or if anybody even gets a hint of what--what's going on with the 2 of us here, it could go down very, VERY badly."
Roxanne chuckles and leans forward, "Aw, don't you fret your pretty little intelligent head about that, honeybun. If it does, then the both of us could just skip town before a Blood Hunt is called. Hm?"
She leans closer and grins, "Maybe we could both run off to Cleveland, hmm? How about Milwaukee? You could reestablish yourself as the benevolent physician and I, well, I'll just keep doing what I've always been doing. Hm."
"And what about Penny? And what about my Ghoul, Brock?"
"We can move her close by. She'd be with us, and I'd be there to watch over her, as would you...hopefully. Your Ghoul can, of course, tag along."
Dr. Collins sharply exhales and responds, "That's the worst-case scenario, Roxanne...what's the best-case one you have in mind?"
The Punk shrugs and smiles, "I don't have one, genius. That's where YOU come in. What is our best-case scenario here, hmm? Leaving that slimy Ventrue and his mafia buddies out for the sun to do her thing? I'd be kinda down for that."
"NO. Well--that's too much, Roxanne. No. I don't have a clue. I mean, I can't really envision either of us being...involved in higher Kindred politics without everyone coming for us. I really don't know, Roxanne."
Roxanne sways from side to side, "Ah, maybe we SHOULD get involved in higher Kindred politics, then, hmm? We can always try and talk to the other Clans, maybe rope others into this little conspiracy we have brewing up. What do you think?"
"I--I don't--I'm not sure who'd--"
The Brujah snaps at him, "C'mon, doc, think about it! We could flip the Malks and the Ferals, couldn't we?"
"Maybe."
Dr. Collins pauses for a brief moment and sighs deeply, "But it's late right now. I need to get to Dr. Sarah's place. She's a good and dear friend of mine, and I'd like to speak to her about other things. You haven't even told me where you're headed."
Roxanne plainly shrugs, "Eh, wherever the money's at, doc. Wherever there are lonely hearts that are in need of some cold company to keep 'em warm on a hot summer's night."
"Waxing poetic, huh?"
The Brujah lady of the night grins, "I was a Literature Major before dropping out, so that's always gonna stick with me. No matter what, no matter where Unlife takes me, the written word will always have a firm grasp on me. It is truly eternal."
"That's--wow. That's really interesting, Roxanne. I didn't know that," Dr. Collins looks away from the woman, but her warm smile catches his eye.
He asks her, "Would you mind if I spoke to Dr. Sarah about this, about what the both of us...were considering tonight?"
Roxanne blithely states, "What overthrowing the Prince and driving the Ventrue out? Sure, knock yourself out, sugar. Is your Dr. Sarah the trustworthy type, or is she the type to let loose at the drop of a hat? I'm curious."
Dr. Collins responds, "She's my friend, Roxanne. I trust her with my Unlife."
The Punk shrugs and states, "Well, if she's your friend and you trust her, then that's good enough for plucky Roxy, heh heh!"
Dr. Collins presses his lips into a thin line and drives on. She eventually asks him to stop at a busy intersection, where there's a tall, narrow building looming ahead. The road is jammed full of cars, and a few pedestrians are walking around the vehicles.
Roxanne takes off her seatbelt and thanks the Tzimisce for the ride. She tells him to be in touch with her. She's got that sparkle in her dead eyes; she's absolutely ready to see whatever plan this is through to its destination, whatever that might look like.
"Wanna see me recite a passage before I go? It's really good, trust me. You like the classics or are you more of a contemporary kinda guy?"
"It's alright, Roxanne. Yeah, we...we'll keep in touch with each other. This...this is crazy, what we're planning here, you know that right?"
Roxanne's eyebrows wiggle up and down, "The doing is when the fun truly starts. I'll leave most of the planning in those doctor hands of yours, sugar."
Dr. Collins nods a little, "Hm. IF, and I mean IF, we do make it through all of this...whatever it ends up being...what--what the hell would it even look like?"
The Punk smiles and tells him, "Eh, it'll probably look better than it does now, won't it?"
"I hope so. Goodbye, Roxanne. And please, for both our sakes, stay safe out there. OK?"
Roxanne twirls her fingers and saunters off into the night, "Ta-ta."
As she's casually walking away, Dr. Collins sighs and rubs his forehead with his fingers, "What the fuck have I--am I getting myself into over here??"
If anyone, especially Prince Antonio, were to find out what these 2 were planning, then Sheriff Velma would be called in to perform not 1, but 2 decapitations. And she'd do it gladly.
On the drive over to Dr. Sarah's dental practice, Dr. Collins does stroke his neck a few times, the grim thoughts of a sword separating his head from the rest of his body taking center stage.
Dr. Collins nervously looks in his rearview mirror and then back at the road ahead.
The Flesh-Shaper thinks about how the plan that he and Roxanne are putting into motion will eventually shape up, it all runs through his mind like a rollercoaster on maximum speed.
Where will it go? WHO will end up being in charge? Should they even succeed that is. What would be the reaction of the other major players around here?
How would the other Clans react to this? Would they side with the Prince and the Ventrue, or would they also consider rebelling against the man who's been in charge of this show for a century?
So many questions swim around in the mind of the Tzimisce doctor.
The answers, he tells himself, will unveil themselves when the time is right. He just hopes carnage and violence can be avoided, but he's no starry-eyed idealist who believes that things like this can go smoothly without even so much as a scratch by the end of it all.
(Assuming the end is the intended one).
It isn't long before Dr. Collins finds himself in front of Dr. Sarah's dental practice. His car halts to a stop and he blankly stares at the street in front of him.
The man has (more or less) committed to the endeavor, well...he could also rat Roxy out, but seriously? Dr. Collins, a fink?
The prostitute has got a point- shit can't just go on like this in this goddamned hellscape of a city.
Conspiring to overthrow a Prince, eh? "Audacious!" is something a fancy Toreador might be tempted to utter. Kindred Society ain't exactly into that whole fair trial thang, y'know? It's usually decollation on the spot, sucka.
Crueler power structures would opt for the long sunbath during day-sleeping hours. Even crueler clusters...well, let's just say that some fates out there are worse than Final Death.
Besides, Dr. Collins has got that lil secret body in his storage unit- that alone is enough to get him iced, never mind the whole planning-with-a-whore thing.
The dental clinic is a medium-large, modest brick building that sits at the middle of the block. The outside walls are painted a light shade of gray, and the sign above the door simply reads: "Smiles By Sarah".
The windows are covered with blinds, so peeps can't peep inside. There's a small parking lot in the back, and the clinic has its fair share of regular customers.
It's a nice, decent, and quiet place where people can get their teeth fixed up and feel confident in the fact that they're in good, capable, albeit dead hands (with literal alien Blood running through them veins).
Dr. Collins parks his car in the front and enters the clinic through the front door. He walks through the halls, passing by some a completely empty waiting area.
The interior of Dr. Sarah's clinic is a clean, well-lit space with blue-white walls and tiled floors of a similar color scheme. There are a few rows of chairs lined up on each side of the waiting area, with a reception desk at the front.
Some classical music is coming from the speakers mounted on the ceiling, and there's a large, framed certificate of Dr. Sarah's dental degree. Not the real one, mind you. More like a forged copy so that anyone who comes in here know that they're in the hands of a professional who knows her onions.
Dr. Sarah doesn't wish for any unsavory individuals (especially vampire hunters) sniffing around her place of business (and Haven). She's got a reputation to uphold, after all.
Her Haven is down in the basement, and the upstairs areas are used to store additional equipment, supplies, and whatever else a vampire's dental practice needs to function.
It's a pretty spacious, and it works as intended. She's got everything she needs to do her job, and that's all that matters to her.
The dentist emerges from her office in the corner and greets Dr. Collins with a wide smile. She's wearing a white lab coat over her clothing.
Dr. Sarah looks decidedly middle-aged. She has dark auburn hair, intense green eyes, a gaunt and pale face, and a lithe body. There's something almost...alien about her. It's hard to pinpoint exactly what it is, but it's there alright.
Her fingers are longer than most and her smile is equal parts easy-going, equal parts unsettling. When she smiles, her teeth are absolutely perfect (she's a dentist, after all!).
Dr. Sarah is pretty evasive on when exactly she was Embraced, but it was a long time ago. Dentistry is all she has known, both in life and in Unlife. Over the years, she's had to make forgeries of her dentist-related certificates to stay ahead of the game, but she's not complaining.
Like Dr. Collins, her medical knowledge is bang up-to-date and contemporary as can possibly be.
Dr. Sarah, unlike many other Tzimisce here, is not only a practitioner of Koldunic Sorcery (aka Koldunism) but she's also very much into the whole Flesh-Crafting thing as well.
She greets her intellectual equal with a smile, arms outstretched, "Doctor Collins! How are you?" She pulls him into a hug. It's warm and friendly, just like she appears to be.
Dr. Collins is still reeling from that highly treasonous talk he had with Roxanne, but he manages to smile and hug his fellow Tzimisce back, "I'm doing fine, Dr. Sarah. I'm doing fine."
He pauses for a moment and then adds, "How are you doing tonight?"
Dr. Sarah maintains her smile, "I'm fine. By the way, your Ghoul came by to get his teeth looked at. Nothing too major, I just thought you should know."
"Hm. Thanks." Dr. Collins takes his seat in front of her curved desk. He sighs deeply and looks around the room. It's very clean and orderly, just like how a dentist's office ought to be. It's comforting. In a weird, alien sorta way.
Dr. Sarah steeples her long fingers together and asks, "So, what brings you here tonight, Doctor?" Her tone is very easy-going and almost suave. It's a bit unusual for a Tzimisce to have such a personality, but it works for her (everyone is different, after all).
She's a slick lady. A cool cat. An alien-vampire dentist.
Dr. Collins proceeds to ask, "So, how have you been lately?"
Dr. Sarah moves a paper on her desk and replies, "Oh, it's been busy, lemme tell you that much. I had a few intensive root canals these past few nights."
"I hope they didn't hurt too much?"
"It was no biggie, doc. I've dealt with worse. Far, far worse."
"That's good, that's good. I was just at Mr. Lance's Haven. Truth be told, I didn't know that we were so low on territory, to be honest."
Dr. Sarah rubs her chin, "Right, right. Yeah, it's been like that. Galeb, that slimy old creep, kept handing a lot of it over to the Ventrue in exchange for boons or whatever, y'know?"
Dr. Collins frowns and leans forward, "Really?! What?! That's just...unbelievable!"
Dr. Sarah shrugs, "Eh, what can ya do? None of us miss Galeb, wherever he is. If he's ash, all the better."
Dr. Collins awkwardly shifts on his seat when he hears her say that. He's got this awkward, nervous look on his face and a weird, guilty feeling in his dead stomach.
Dr. Collins exhales and tells her, "We can't lose more land, Dr. Sarah."
"No kidding. That's why you're our Primogen now. If anything, the rest of us are hoping that you'd be able to undo Galeb's many...mistakes, yeah? That's what the Primogen are for, right? Making sure that the interests of the Clan are adequately represented in the Court?"
Dr. Collins nods, "Yeah, I suppose so. I've been giving it some thought, and I think that we have to find a way to, uh...renegotiate--" He stops mid-sentence and nervously rubs the base of his cold neck.
He's not sure how to bring up the topic of overthrowing the Prince with Dr. Sarah, so he just keeps quiet on that for now. He'll think of something.
In the meantime, he gulps and looks her in the eye, "Uh, anyway. I wanted to ask you about Brock. How's he been doing? Has he said anything...odd?"
Dr. Sarah smiles and chuckles, "Well, let's see. Not that I can think of, no. Why, is your Ghoul trying something funny? Is this gonna be a problem for us?" She leans forward and smirks, sinisterly.
Dr. Collins lightly gasps, "What?! No! God, no. Nothing like that; Brock's been good to me these past 7 years. No, I've just been concerned about his...well, his health...and wellbeing."
Dr. Sarah leans back and regards her fellow Fiend with an unreadable stare, "He's been with ya a long time, eh?"
Dr. Collins smiles and replies, "He's a good kid, Dr. Sarah. Like--like the son I never had, you know?"
"I suppose so. Your Brock's doing fine. If it's worth anything, he told me that he recently...came out the closet to you."
Dr. Collins nods and smiles a little, "Yeah. I'm just glad that he told me. There's nothing wrong with being gay; it's perfectly natural. He's safe with me, don't worry."
"You didn't even suspect it?"
"Suspect what?"
Dr. Sarah lazily waves her hand, "Never mind. So, what else is new, hmm? How's the Primogen job so far?"
Dr. Collins faintly groans, "Not off to a great start. By the way, thank you so much, for that $1500 you lent me. I can't believe it, you know? $10,000 for--for some kinda entry fee into that greedy Ventrue's Court! That's insane!"
Dr. Sarah grins and says, "I'm not surprised, honestly. $10,000 is a pretty big chunk of change for most of us, but that's what it takes to get in the big boy leagues these nights. I hope you managed to cover the remaining $8500 just fine?"
Dr. Collins nods, "Yeah. I even had to borrow from Brock. Hff. I hope he doesn't resent me for that."
"He'll be fine. Trust me."
"Anyway, let's get back to what we were talking about. We're low on land, and the other Clans need to either give some of theirs up, or we've gotta get more aggressive in negotiating ours back."
Dr. Sarah chuckles, "Look at you. You truly are the man in charge, huh? I already like you better than that slimy Elder, Galeb. Sheesh, he--he was--there was something 'off' about him, y'know?"
"Yeah. I guess I am. I just--I just want to see this work out. I wanna see our Clan flourish. What do mean by 'off'?"
Dr. Sarah leans forward and puts her chin on the back of her palm, "Well, he was very secretive, and he didn't talk much, but it was obvious that he was always plotting, scheming, and working some angle."
"Hmm." He wordlessly motions for her to go on.
She does so, "He was also a real, real nasty guy. Y'know, the kind of unpleasant guy who wouldn't hesitate to dust someone to save his own hide. He reminded me more of the Sabbat-aligned Tzimisce, if you ask me."
Dr. Collins stifles a gasp and stares off into space as she waits for him to say something. His face tics a few times, as if there's something more he knows. Something he's keeping from everyone else.
Dr. Collins remains in contemplative silence. He's still dwelling on the talk he had with Roxy. He looks away and sighs, "We have to do something, but I'm not sure what."
(He knows more about Galeb than he's letting on, but what?)
Dr. Sarah side-eyes her fellow Stoker, "OK? Is everything alright with you? It looks like you're physically present- which you are- but your mind's a million miles away."
(True!)
The good doctor replies, "I'm sorry. It's just...the whole Galeb situation, I just want to make sure that we don't--"
"It's fine. No one's gonna miss him. If anything, we're hoping that you can finally undo his many mistakes and fuckups."
"How bad was it?"
"VERY. That son of a bitch weakened our position in this city- severely. After all the self-sabotage he's done, I'm surprised we're even here at all, still standing."
"Yeah. I'm...I'm starting to realize that we can't keep doing what we've been doing for the past few decades. We need a change...in--"
Dr. Sarah cuts him off, "Plans, approach, strategy- the usual, yeah? What do you have in mind, then?"
Dr. Collins sighs, "Well, for starters, we'll need to work on our negotiating tactics. We need to learn to play hardball, if you ask me. The Baali have some territory, and they're willing to negotiate. Either way, we'll be the ones making demands, not them."
The dentist approvingly nods, "Good idea, I like the sound of that. What else?"
The GP turns his head aside and mumbles, "We...need a change of--of leadership around here. We need to start building our Clan back up. But we need...something--someone different in charge."
Dr. Sarah smiles nervously, "Um...OK? What possessed you to just come out and say that."
Dr. Collins gathers some courage and answers, "A talk I've been having with...another...close friend of mine."
The dentist moues, "Aww, and here I thought I was your closest friend." She shoots him a playfully disapproving look.
Dr. Collins chuckles, "Well, you are and will always be my closest friend, my confidant, an intellectual equal, and a colleague. There's no one quite like you, Dr. Sarah."
"Aww, thanks, doc. You're a dear, too. But what's this other 'close friend' of yours like, huh?"
Dr. Collins licks his lips and replies, "She's a Brujah prostitute named, believe it or not, Roxanne."
Dr. Sarah laughs, "You're shitting me, right?! A prostitute named after that song dedicated to a prostitute? Hahahahahahaha!" She's getting a real kick out of that.
Dr. Collins can't help but laugh along, "Yeah. The same song by The Police. I think I have it on vinyl somewhere. She's--she's also a very passionate woman. She's got this fierce fire in her. I can't exactly put into words the kind of spirit she has."
"Oh, interesting. What's she like?"
Dr. Collins shrugs and states, "Like any other Brujah, really. Angry, passionate, on fire, hellbent on rebelling against...whatever it is that's got them all riled up this week."
"Hmm."
"What?"
"It's just that you've been acting a bit odd ever since you stepped in. What exactly did that Brujah tell you?"
Dr. Collins hides nothing from his fellow Dragon when recounting the entirety of the conversation he'd had with Roxanne. Nothing. Dr. Sarah patiently listens, nods, and keeps her reaction and opinions to herself.
Dr. Collins finishes his recount and leans back in his chair with a huff, "I'm not sure, but I've been thinking about her proposition. And, well, I guess the way I see it is that...she's right. Prince Antonio has been in charge of this city for far too long. It's time for a change."
Dr. Sarah crosses her arms, lifts her chin, and stares at the GP, "And?"
Dr. Collins winces, "And...I feel conflicted. I dunno what roping you into this little--this little conspiracy would do, but, I--I feel like we've gotta do something. The time for sitting around has long passed."
He pauses for a moment before adding, "We're Kindred, we've got all the time on our side, but we shouldn't take that for granted. Not if we're constantly losing territory to the other major players around here. This...Roxanne, she's not wrong. She's not wrong at all."
"Interesting."
(Is that all she has to say?)
Dr. Collins goes on, "Maybe her approach seems a bit harsh, but she knows this city better than either of us. I--I think we should, we should, we should do something about this."
Dr. Sarah calmly says, "We will. We should. We can."
"So, you're in?"
Dr. Sarah shrugs and plainly responds, "In all the time we've known each other, have I ever turned my back on you? Have I ever said 'no' in your hour of need? Ever?"
Dr. Collins shakes his head, "No. No, you haven't, and for that I'll always be grateful. Y--You're a good friend."
The dentist smiles, "Good. Because if you're going to embark on some reckless venture, you'd better have some backup. That hooker knows the streets- she's streetwise. But she wouldn't last too long in the big leagues of Camarilla politics, and you know that."
"Hm. Yeah, she won't, true."
"Well, then, let's talk about this, yeah? What exactly are you trying to accomplish here? Hell, what are WE trying to accomplish over here, huh?"
(That's a very good question. How will Dr. Collins and Roxanne go about taking down Prince Antonio, the Ventrue, and the rest of the city's power structures, all at once?)
Roxy's all about the direct approach, but that'd land her out on the roof of some tall building just as the sun's coming up.
Dr. Sarah points out, "The direct route isn't the most advisable one here, but there is a middle ground between those extremes. I'd like to discuss that with you...and her, if you're both up for it sometime this week."
Dr. Collins queries, "You don't have any patients this week?"
"I do, but I can manage to fit you 2 budding conspirators in. After all, if this is the kind of thing I've gotta keep in my back pocket, then I'll need to learn how to keep some time aside to talk about it."
(She's certainly a no-nonsense kinda gal).
The Tzimisce GP mulls some things over in his mind, blankly staring at his shoes. He's still thinking about how the 2 of them, and others, can get away with overthrowing a Prince, but he can't come up with anything concrete just yet.
Dr. Collins looks at his watch and says, "I'll speak to her again, and we can all meet up and work on our next moves. You--you're not gonna go and tell anyone else, right?"
The Tzimisce clicks her tongue, "Come now. I know what snitches get. No, I'm...in this, with you and that prostitute friend of yours. As long as we're on the same page, aligned in purpose, I'll play my part."
"Good. Thanks. This means a lot to me--and probably Roxanne, too."
"No problem." She smiles and then sighs, "How did that happen, anyway? I've known you since you arrived in this city. How did you and some Brujah who fucks for an Unliving become such fast friends?"
Doc Collins shrugs, "I guess it just happened. She needed someone to check in on her comatose sister, and she didn't know where else to turn. She found out about me, and...here we are now. Making wild plans for the future."
Doc Sarah smiles widely, "That's Cute. Really cute. I mean it. Yeah, it's gonna be a wild ride, that's for sure! Haha! Are you ready for what comes next?"
"I...guess so. You?"
"Of course! We should absolutely stay in touch, but not via the phones. I hate those cellular phones so goddamn much. They're listening in on our calls, y'know?"
"Hmm. Yep, we'll stay in touch."
Doc Sarah proposes, "I think it's better if we all just went back to writing letters, like in the good ol' nights before all this digital information age dotcom shit or whatever it's called started taking over. In my opinion, this new millennium's off to a bad, bad start."
Dr. Collins sucks some air through his teeth and counters, "Well, think of the many upsides of technology. We're interconnected globally, we're able to access the Internet, and we're able to communicate with people that are all over the world."
He adds, "And as medical professionals, we not only have access to numerous studies but our colleagues all over the world are just a simple phone call or email away. We could diagnose rare diseases, exchange notes on our medical practices, and more. That's pretty remarkable, right?"
Dr. Sarah sighs softly, "That's true. But it also makes us VERY easy to track down, and I'm not talking about the police, either. The Second Inquisition is out there. They're monitoring our every move and they're tracking us down, waiting to hit us."
"Yeah. That's scary. A little."
"It's a nightmare, doc. An absolute nightmare!"
Dr. Collins tells her, "Well, at least there's no SI in this Domain, so we're safe from them...for now."
(How wrong he is. The SAD was already preparing to make some major moves against certain Kindred, based on intelligence they've been recently given by an anonymous source).
Dr. Sarah rolls a shoulder and groans a little, "Hmmmph. Yeah. At least we've been doing our best to keep the Masquerade intact, so we wouldn't have to worry about some freak reeking of garlic trying to douse us all in holy water, hahaha!"
"Heh, yeah."
The chat between these 2 Tzimisce goes on for a few minutes more. They talk about more intellectual matters. As it is, in this city of greed, finding an intellectual equal was hard for Dr. Collins.
He's glad to have met and made friends with somebody like Dr. Sarah. She's not exactly in the same line of work as the GP, but she's smart as a whip, and they have a lot in common.
The Tzimisce dentist and her cognitive peer discuss some more things, from current events and the latest developments in the news to the books they've both been reading.
The chat soon drifts off to Koldunic stuff, and matters pertaining to it. This is a field in which Dr. Collins has no experience in. Sure, he's read about it, but actually diving deep into Koldunism and its intricacies?
That's another thing entirely!
The Tzimisce duo continue to converse until the clock strikes 2:00 AM. Dr. Collins says goodbye to Dr. Sarah, lightly smiles at her, and walks out of the dental clinic.
So, it looks like there's a 3rd member in the conspiracy to get rid of Prince Antonio Black, eh? Will there also be a 4th, 5th, or 6th down the line?
What about the Ghoul, Brock? Does he even count? Well, he's a Ghoul. And when it comes to these sorts of plots, Ghouls tend to be...yeah. Either way, Dr. Collins will never let anything bad happen to the guy who's been by his side for the past 7 years.
Right?
One can only hope that the good doctor retains his Humanity through what is (undoubtedly) going to be a VERY messy ordeal. Neither Roxanne nor Dr. Sarah have Ghouls of their own.
Yet. Roxy's looking to flip Jadwiga to immortality lite, but that's more for Penny's sake than anything else.
As for the dentist, she prefers doing things herself- a more hands-on approach, if you will. Like Dr. Collins, she has a mortal receptionist at her clinic to see to more...mundane matters.
Dr. Sarah prefers to handle all the occult, dark and secretly secretive things herself. She's very particular like that. It's kind of scary as well.
In time, Dr. Collins heads to Brock's place to discuss the latter's daylight duties and their plans for the next couple of nights. Needless to say, the Ghoul certainly has his work cut out for him!
By the end of it all, Brock looks a bit overwhelmed with all the mini tasks that his Domitor has assigned him.
Dr. Collins does make some things very clear to his Ghoul, "You'll always have to stay sharp out there, kid. There's something else we need to talk about, but it's getting late and I'd like to be back in my Haven before sunrise."
Brock nods and blows a raspberry, "Sure thing, doc. Uh...did you tell Dr. Sarah about the...you know?"
(He's referring to that cold body in the good doctor's storage unit).
Dr. Collins merely shakes his head, "Not yet. I'll tell her soon. Don't worry. Get some rest now. And take care."
The Ghoul smiles, "You too, doc." They hug, and Dr. Collins leaves in his vehicle.
The Stoker is soon back in the warm and familiar comfort of his Haven. He changes into a matching PJ set that he's had for about 20 years now, brushes his teeth (visiting a dentist certainly impels one to brush their teeth), and readies himself for the day-sleep.
The Fiend proceeds to snuggle into his oak bed, covering his cold body with a brown(ish) duvet, and drifting off to the land of the day-slumber. His eyes grow heavy as the sun begins to rise.
As he's being pulled in, he's still thinking about the future he'll embark on, and it's not a wholly pleasant thought.
The sun peeks above the horizon, coloring the sky a dim shade of purple. The Dragon drifts off, not fully sure of what the future has in store for him and those close to him.
Deep in the cold blackness of the day-sleep, Dr. Collins is drawn into a...strange place. A heavy dust storm is brewing in the distance, and it looks pretty intense, indeed.
The dark red sand is thickly dusting the barren and craggy desert. The sun is tinted blue in the graying sky above. The sandstorm abates after a while, and a tall, shiny, black monolith is clearly seen in the distance.
Despite looking reflective, Dr. Collins does not see his reflection when approaching the object.
He looks around at his surroundings, but it's too damn dusty and hazy to see anything at all. The Tzimisce hears faint whispers in the distance. There's an invisible and overarching presence nearby.
"Collins..." it calls out his name, its voice gently echoing in the mind of the day-dreaming Stoker.
"Where am I? Who's there?"
It calls out again, "Collins...my Childe."
"Wha...?"
Dr. Collins can feel a long and invisible finger reaching out and touching his head. It soon becomes clear who exactly this is.
Oh.
It's beautiful...and terrible at the same time.
Dr. Collins's lips quiver in a mixture of fear and wonder, "The--the--"
The Tzimisce Antediluvian goes by many names- The Eldest, The Ancient, and countless other names either lost to the annals of time or too forbidden to speak aloud.
Now, however, it calls itself "The Supreme Voivode."
It suddenly appears, out of thin dust, and stretches out its long and chitinous hand towards its Blood descendant.
Dr. Collins can hardly make out the features of his Clan's progenitor from where he's standing, but he sees black chitinous bone armor, numerous arms, and many small eyes boring into his very essence.
A deep and booming voice whispers to him, "Childe...Descendant...Offspring..."
Dr. Collins can hardly breathe as he whispers, "Y--you..."
The Antediluvian's long and hooked fingers stretch out. Tentacles begin to burst out of its fingertips. They envelop Dr. Collins and close all around him, as if it's trying to protect its creation.
The Tzimisce GP struggles a little, but it's no use. He's tightly wrapped up in the Antediluvian's fleshy tentacle grasp, and there's no way he can get out.
The tentacles appear to be living entities of their own. They're pink in color and fleshy to the touch. They squirm and writhe, like snakes made out of blood and skin.
They have eyes and mouths in their fleshy, pink surface, and they look like they want to speak to the doc or study him or both, he isn't so sure.
Dr. Collins looks up at the giant, extraterrestrial entity that is towering over him. He tries to speak, but his mouth feels so dry, and the words refuse to come out.
The Supreme Voivode telepathically tells Dr. Collins that this is the planet Mars. Yeah, as in the Red Planet, 4th from the sun. Did it flee to Mars after crash-landing on Earth? But how?
The Antediluvian senses this question in the mind of its Childe.
Dr. Collins shivers as the answer makes itself clear, cascading his body with chills of warm comfort and cold terror.
It doesn't give a clear answer. The 1st story goes about how It enlisted the help of Awakened Mages to build a super-quantum teleportation device to get from Earth to Mars.
(The Mages were only all too eager to help!)
The 2nd story claims about how It managed to repair Its spaceship and leave Planet Earth for good.
A 3rd tale talks about how It crossed through the Umbra to arrive at the Red Planet. It unwittingly left quite a trail of corruption in Its wake- corruption that the Garou Nation are still struggling against.
Dr. Collins finds himself not fully satisfied with any of those stories, so he asks if there's a 4th.
The Supreme Voivode's chitinous armor shifts as it telepathically tells him that there might be, but It does not feel that now is the time for such revelations.
The Antediluvian asks Dr. Collins why he's here. The doc says he doesn't know.
The last time Dr. Collins experienced something like this was right after his Embrace. As he was coming around, he felt himself being pulled to a place outside of the Tellurian (the whole of reality, including the mundane world) and into...Mars?
Well, it certainly feels like Mars. Dusty, reddish, unfit for human life.
The Eldest can sense the unease of Its Blood descendant. In the presence of such greatness, Dr. Collins is at a loss for words. He feels small, and weak, and very scared.
He feels insignificant to be in the presence of someone (no, something) that is literally not of this world!
The Antediluvian takes notice and softly murmurs that fear is nothing to be ashamed of. Despite Its greatness and inscrutable power beyond power, It tells him that It, too, feels small in comparison to the great and vast expanse of the cosmos.
Dr. Collins can't help but chuckle at that. How humble of his Clan's progenitor, eh?
The Supreme Voivode's many mouths twist and turn, and It tells Its Childe of how It is merely a lowly creature from the planet from which It had fled many eons ago.
The Ancient's spaceship crash-landed on Earth a very long time ago, in the deep recesses of time and history. On Earth, It was a strange creature in a strange land.
Stranded. For some reason, that word is capitalized in the doctor's mind.
Dr. Collins gasps as It tells him that It had no choice but to make a home on this planet for a very long time.
The extraterrestrial Tzimisce Antediluvian can sense the shock that It has inflicted upon Its Childe. The fleshy tentacles begin to coil and squirm around, and they are beginning to have some thoughts of their own, it seems.
They tell Dr. Collins that it had been many centuries before It finally became a vampire of the 3rd Generation, thus setting in motion the creation of the Tzimisce Clan we all know (and love) tonight.
The Supreme Voivode was Embraced. Despite being a literal alien fleeing from a planet far, far away, that somehow went off without a hitch. Who Embraced It and how? And why?
The Antediluvian intentionally clouds the curious and sharp mind of Dr. Collins.
Dr. Collins cannot see right through the thick black cloud of sentient smoke that is clouding his mind. He sighs and lets his mind go free. He lets go of this question, but millions more swim around his mind like a school of little fishes.
He has questions upon questions about how it was possible that a "lowly" creature like an Antediluvian would end up on this planet, how It managed to stay out of the sun and out of trouble for so long, and so on.
It fills Its Childe's minds with only partial answers, hoping that Dr. Collins is wise enough to piece the rest together. The answers, after all, are still on Planet Earth.
Whether in the form of archeological evidence, super ancient writings, tangible relics and artifacts, or other (valid) sources.
Dr. Collins begins to wonder if he can leave this place- the daydream-like desert, but It gently tells him that there's no way for him to leave until It gives Its consent.
"I...draw...all...my...Childer...here...Collins. I...say...when...they...depart..."
It's starting to get harder for Collins to hear Its words, but the Antediluvian telepathically says to him that this is the realm where It resides, where It lives, where It draws its limitless power, and where IT alone makes the rules.
Dr. Collins looks down at his bare feet and sees the coarse sand beneath them. He thinks about Brock, Penny, Roxanne, Dr. Sarah, and many others.
He thinks about his clinic, his Haven, and his Clan as a whole.
The good doctor turns his head and sees the endless, rolling dune desert that surrounds him on all sides. There's nothing out there. No signs of life, and not even a single creature roaming these sandy plains.
It's like he's in the middle of nowhere, in a place that is so vast, so wide, so empty, so devoid of familiarity, that it has nothing but emptiness and desolation to offer to a person like him.
The Antediluvian tells Dr. Collins that this is merely the beginning of a new and terrifying era, for he and everyone he knows.
The Tzimisce GP is scared. Terrified. The thought of being in the presence of such cosmic greatness, the thought of being able to talk with the Supreme Voivode, the Tzimisce Antediluvian Itself!
The Eldest fills his small and insignificant mind with surreal, trippy thoughts. It makes him think about the events of this evening and all that has transpired thus far.
It also offers him glimpses into the future. He feels 2 unfamiliar appendages protruding out of the sides of his torso, and he can sense their purpose a lot more clearly once he pieces together what exactly those 2 appendages are.
The doc starts to feel some pain. It hurts. His entire body is wracked with pain. Despite it all, however, he cracks a tiny smile of satisfaction.
He's got it. He gets it. He understands what he must do. It's just like an Antediluvian to offer cryptic riddles and unsolvable questions that will be left unanswered for ages and ages to come.
At least this one is not so monstrous and vague to the point of being totally consumed by its Hunger. This alien-vampire hybrid extraterrestrial being has the capacity for both great wisdom and great horror, and it has chosen to share only a mere sliver of Its knowledge with this puny human.
Dr. Collins sees flashes of 2 human arms protruding from his torso, and they are now fully formed. He smiles shakily and gasps. This...this is what he has always Coveted after, and it would seem that he...gets them?
When though? And whose arms are they?
Dr. Collins howls in pain. He feels as if a long knife has been stabbed through his chest. The pain is excruciating. He's experiencing intense muscle spasms, and he can barely even move his own...4 (?) arms.
"It...all...comes...for...a...price. I...am...pleased...Childe..."
It all comes for a price, it all comes at a price. What price is that, Dr. Collins wonders. Too great and heavy a price, perhaps?
Dr. Collins cannot hear the answers, but the fleshy, pink tentacles begin to writhe and sway around in the air. They begin to coil themselves around him and squeeze him tighter than before.
They are now beginning to morph into an appendage with sharp golden claws, and It tells him that having 4 arms is his destiny.
"You...wished...for...it...and...granted...it...shall...be..."
Dr. Collins mumbles, "T--thank you."
The sentient tentacles loosen their hold around him, and they now retreat back into the fingertips of the Supreme Voivode.
With a quick and deliberate wave of the outstretched hand, the Tzimisce Antediluvian banishes its sanguine descendant from Its world.
Dr. Collins's body merely twitches and spasms. Throughout the day, a word keeps echoing through his mind: "Stranded."
To think that a Stranded extraterrestrial would go on to become the progenitor of a vampire Clan of Its own is simply...unbelievable! Magnificent, even!
On Modern Nights, the Tzimisce seem focused on transcending the limitations of the vampiric state. Could the literal space alien from another living world be the key to this mystery that has confounded even the greatest of Flesh-Shapers over the centuries?
There's a whole wider world out there, even beyond the confines of Planet Earth. Well, hey, aliens are real! And the Eldest wasn't the only one who was Stranded on Planet Earth.
There are many more Stranded out there, just like It. Some even walk, breathe, work, and live amongst us.
Others bide their time till someone from their home world can either pick them up or they figure out a way to use pitiful Earth technology to repair their vessels and leave.
Maybe some of these aliens don't wanna leave? Maybe they...like it here on the 3rd rock from the sun?
A few other Stranded have fled to Planet Earth, as refugees and immigrants (from another world, imagine that!). They were fleeing war, pestilence, famine, and persecution.
Chapter 17: Owning The Future- Part 2
The sun is up and its pretty early in the morning. The sky above is a clear, blue-purple hue, and the trees are rustling in the early morning wind. A few birds are chirping on this fine day.
For now, we must redirect our attention back to more earthly and terrestrial matters. There will be plenty of time to explore ET later.
A small black helicopter circles an abandoned factory that's not too far from 5th Street. The helo flies a few rounds, and the pilot has strict orders to NOT touch down at all.
Special Agent Cuomo, Agent Heartley, and a few other SAD operators are enroute to their destination. This is a sanctioned operation, and so far, they are expecting a lone hostile within the confines of what was once a factory.
Deindustrialization hit F-City hard. This factory stands as a testament to that fact. Long and scraggly vines have laid claim to a majority of the building. The walls are gray, old, and full of cracks and chips.
Jobs were massacred left, right, and center. All the while, the unions sat back and did nothing to mobilize their large memberships against this tide of madness.
There's an old red brick chimney sticking out, with its tip looking more like a stack of broken and crumbling rocks than bricks.
The ground is rough and full of holes. Some of the doors within the crumbling structure lead towards underground passages and others just lead to more holes and dirt.
A few homeless folk (be they Kindred or Kine) now "sleep" at this gone and forgotten factory. The mortals have irregular sleep patterns, but the Kindred are usually dozing off as the sun rises.
The interior of the ex-factory is no different from the exterior. There's an old and faded sign that used to say something. There are clumps of mold on the walls and corners.
Old, rusty pipes line the walls. Some of the ceilings are covered in cracks and accumulated filth, whilst others look ready to fall down at a moment's notice.
Most homeless mortals have moved out due to the FCPD and their insane methods of policing, which usually involve violently clearing out homeless encampments, beating up the unhoused for no reason, arbitrarily arresting them, and so on.
It's still pretty early in the day, so there's only 1 Kindred in there, day-sleeping under some tattered blankets and on a lumpy mattress in a cold corner where the sun can't get him.
The SAD tac-team has surrounded the building, with at least a dozen operators guarding all the entrances and exits. They have orders to shoot anything that tries to bust out of these rusty doors.
Special Agent Cuomo and his squad have received a call from an anonymous source (!) and they have learned of the location of a blank body in this particular locale.
The blank body in question is of Clan Gangrel, hence his proximity to 5th Street. He's a Hispanic man in his late-40s. He's balding and day-sleeps in his stained overalls.
He works 2 minimum wage jobs and can barely make enough to afford a roof over his head. So, he day-sleeps in whatever dark and "cozy" corner he can find.
The SAD tac-operators are slowly moving their way through the former factory. Special Agent Cuomo is on-point while Agent Heartley stands back and makes sure the exits are covered.
Unlike the FBI agents in the lower rungs, the seasoned SAD operatives KNOW EXACTLY what they're up against. So, they've come prepared with wooden stakes and high caliber weaponry.
Special Agent Harold Cuomo is wearing his FBI field jacket, his FBI cap, and plain black pants. He's got FBI body armor on (for good measure) and he holds his pistol tightly.
Agent Heather Heartley is wearing something similar, but she's got her wooden stake out. She strokes that long piece of wood and mumbles something indeterminable under her shaky breath.
Special Agent Cuomo makes tactical hand gestures and quietly orders 2 SAD operators behind him to move out and check that particular dark corner on the other side.
The 2 subordinates obey him. They fan out and sweep that section.
Another 2 are told to hang back and check the surrounding rooms. They nod and silently move to do just that.
Special Agent Cuomo's goons are wearing the best gear and equipment at their disposal. They're wearing solid black helmets, Kevlar armor, and sturdy, steel-tipped "tactical" boots.
Special Agent Cuomo slows down and gulps. His expression hardens into a determined glare.
He points his pistol at a blanket in the dark corner of the factory floor. He then cautiously approaches and gives his squadmates the order to hang back and not make a sound.
Agent Heartley stays at her position, as does the team covering the exterior. The helicopter continues its circular patrol, keeping watch on the old and rusted factory building from high above.
Special Agent Harold Cuomo makes sure not to step on any pieces of wood that could alert his target of his presence. His pistol is drawn, but his hands are shaking.
His heart beats rapidly.
The day-sleeping Feral's Survival Instincts kick in. He senses a looming danger closing in, but when the sun's up, he's not at his fullest. His eyelids open wide, and he wakes up in a fit of shock.
The Gangrel's body hairs grow out, his fangs and claws shoot out of their sockets, looking larger than Unlife in the gloomy light. The claws are now at least a few inches longer than expected. The fangs look sharp enough to go through a racehorse.
Special Agent Cuomo yelps a little in shock and quickly shoots the weakened Gangrel. The poor fella is struck, but he shrugs the bullets (and the pain) off and rushes towards Special Agent Cuomo at full speed.
However, during daylight, he's not as fast or strong as he could be. So, Special Agent Cuomo is able to dodge the attack by diving to the side.
The other SAD thugs pepper the dazed vampire in a hail of gunfire. The Outlander dodges most of them. His face is twisted in bestial rage, and he can see rays of the sun poking through the few gaps in the ceiling.
Special Agent Cuomo springs up with a small grunt. He screams out, "FREEZE! FBI!"
The Gangrel dude screeches at the agents surrounding him. He gets on all fours and rushes through a gap in the wall. His body has almost morphed into something animal looking.
"Dammit!" Special Agent Cuomo spits. He gives chase, with his subordinates following close by.
This factory is quite big, but there isn't much inside of it, to be frank. Just a bunch of rusting pipes, old crates and containers, some tools and tarp-covered boxes, and of course, a bunch of rats.
The weakened Feral screeches and howls incessantly as he makes his escape. His inner Beast rouses and hisses within him, begging him not to run straight into the sunlight.
However, the human mind that controls this body is a little...distorted at the moment. He should be in the comfort of the day-sleep, instead he's being chased like a dog through a place he thought was safe.
The federal agents lay down some heavy fire while advancing forward.
"Contact! Contact! Engaging 1 tango, over!"
Agent Heartley responds, "Roger that. We've got all exits covered. Neutralize it!"
"You got it, Heather! We're engaging now!" Special Agent Harold Cuomo adds in a hurried tone.
"Where the hell is he?" a SAD operative asks.
The Gangrel is huddled in a corner, snarling. Fear is all over his big eyes. He's waiting for an opportunity to strike, or to run to somewhere a little more...concealed.
Special Agent Cuomo commands his people, "Fan out, fan out! Find this son of a bitch!"
The SAD operatives go in teams of 2, checking their corners, swaying their guns left and right, and making sure that their flashlights are pointed at anything that moves or seems suspicious.
They hear the Gangrel's low growling nearby. The daylight-weakened vampire leaps towards 1 of the subordinates. His body looks less and less human and more and more beastlike.
(Almost like a dollar store Garou in Glabro form).
The agent lets out a scream before a chunk of her face is torn off. The vampire lets out a pained cry and backs off as the nearby agent shoots the bloodsucker a few more times in the torso.
The poor bastard's torso bursts open, but no blood spills out of the gaping wounds. He's shot once in the knee and once in the shoulder. The 2 bullets seem to slow down the speed at which the body is regenerating, and he is forced to retreat into an adjoining room.
The agent who got slashed is on the ground, writhing in pain and screaming at the top of her lungs. "Help me! It got me in the fucking face!"
Her fellow goon looks down at the mess in horror. She can't believe her eyes.
Special Agent Cuomo orders that agent, "Go, go, go!"
He orders another agent, "You! Get her out of here and get her some medical attention! GO!"
Agent Heartley checks the time. She checks in with the other teams covering the exits. They all say that everything's fine on their end.
Special Agent Cuomo and the rest of his team continue to give chase to this scared vampire. It seems like they've got it spooked and cornered, until the Feral stops for a moment and lashes out at the closest SAD operative.
The unfortunate SAD thug gets knocked down on the floor and violently wrestled to the ground by this man. The agent is shocked to see the vampire's body morph into some kind of emaciated half-werewolf thing.
The gangly and hairy humanoid has its head lowered towards the helpless agent's exposed neck and torso. He lets out a terrifying, bone-chilling growl and brings its sharp fangs towards the SAD thug's neck.
"AAAAAAAAAAAAH!"
Gunfire begins to ring out through the hallways and the main room of the abandoned factory. The Outlander looks around frantically. It screeches and rushes to the nearest exit.
"He's heading for the exit! South exit, south exit!"
Agent Heather is at the south exit. She exhales sharply and gets her wooden stake ready, hoping for her target to pop out at any moment.
She and 2 SAD operators stand on either side of the doorway, watching it carefully. Those 2 have their guns drawn.
At the last moment, the Feral stops short of bashing the door open. This man's inner Beast can sense not only danger but also the light of the sun outside. So, he can't exit the building via the south entrance.
Special Agent Harold Cuomo orders his remaining subordinates, "Go, go, go. Hit him!"
The Outlander tries to navigate its way through this abandoned building, but he is too disoriented, scared, confused, and not fully in control of his body and actions.
All his Beast wants is to "sleep" in peace. Being awakened at this ungodly hour has soured both of their moods, and the weakened vampire can barely think straight at the moment.
Agent Heartley calls out, "Hey. You. We got you surrounded! Surrender now or we'll shoot your sorry ass down!"
The Gangrel responds with a broken screech. He frantically looks around, but all he can see is 1 way out- the south exit. He can also hear rapidly approaching footsteps from behind him.
"Put your hands where I can see 'em, asshole! Last chance! Put your hands where I can see 'em or I'm gonna fucking shoot!" Agent Heartley orders with an almost sadistic look on her face.
"GRRRRRRRAHHHHRRRRRGH!" The Outlander snarls and scratches at the walls. He turns back to face the south exit and decides that it's worth it. He can probably take on a few more bullets and maybe withstand a bit of sun.
The Feral makes his move. He tries to barrel out of the door, but Agent Heartley body-blocks him and viciously rams that piece of wood into his chest. He lets out a gasp of surprise and collapses onto the ground.
Before his vision goes black, he stares at her for a moment, fear in his eyes, and she stabs that piece of wood deeper into his sternum with a determined look on her face.
He hits the ground with a thud, his body twitching only a bit before falling completely still.
"It's been a long time coming...asshole," Agent Heather smugly looks down and tells the staked Feral on the ground.
She shakes her head at him and puts her hands on her hips.
She breathes out, "I was just waiting for an excuse to do that, y'know?"
Special Agent Cuomo catches up and nods at his second-in-command, "Good work, Agent Heartley."
She merely smiles as way of response.
The federal agents proceed to search this Outlander's pockets for any ID and such. They find 2 IDs with 2 different names on them. They find some quarters and a few nickels as well.
Other than that, there's a crumpled-up raffle ticket in the Outlander's front pocket. They search around, hoping to find a few more clues that might tell them more.
An anonymous source called it in. They used a voice distorter and said there are usually some potential "vampires" hanging around this dilapidated structure.
Special Agent Harold nods over to the still Feral, "At least this particular one didn't go out screaming or with a bloodthirsty smirk on his face."
Agent Heartley and a few others ask what should be done now- take him back for interrogation or...?
The Special Agent's mouth twists into a grin as he blandly says, "The only good bloodsucker is a dead one. Get the jerrycan."
His team all nod their agreement, as if they'd been waiting for this very moment for quite some time now. Someone goes to go and quickly fetch a jerrycan full of kerosene.
Special Agent Cuomo squats down and mumbles, "What's the point of even putting you through the trouble of getting interrogated? Look at him, he's just another bum with fangs and claws."
The federal agents proceed to douse the helpless man in kerosene. Some of it gets splattered on the nearby wall and a few other pieces of junk around this derelict structure.
Special Agent Cuomo knowingly smirks at Agent Heartley while lighting a cigarette. He shakes the matches a few times and flicks them aside.
He takes a deep drag of the cigarette, puffs a few plumes of smoke into the air, and eventually throws the lit cigarette right at the still and silent body.
Fire envelops this poor fella. The fire starts from the legs up and burns everything it can reach. It isn't long before this Gangrel's body is reduced to a pile of rancid ashes.
Some nearby operators hold their noses and grimace in disgust, while Special Agent Cuomo pulls a fresh cig and just continues smoking, the smoke from his cigarette mixing with the thick smog produced from the fire.
Special Agent Harold Cuomo tells his squad, "Now, that's what I call 'evidence control.' This one wasn't too important, anyway. It's about sending a message to the rest of these assholes."
Agent Heather Heartley faintly chuckles and shakes her head, "Yup. It's good to be back. Isn't it, sir?"
Harry makes a show of blowing out a cloud of smoke from his cigarette and telling his second-in-command, "You can say that again, Heather. Let's wrap this up! Let's go people, let's move!"
The federal goons begin to disperse from the area. The 2 middle-class adventurist psychos, Harold and Heather, return to the SAD base of operations and write their report for their superiors.
Special Agent Harold Cuomo sighs tiredly and stretches a little, "Ugh. This paperwork shit sucks, huh?"
His partner-in-crime, Agent Heather Heartley, just looks at him and rolls her eyes. She chuckles lightly and finishes the last bits of her paperwork. She sets her pen aside and sighs, "I think we did pretty good today, don't you?"
"If this was the best this city had to offer, then it's gonna be pretty easy. Either way, this was a message- a warning shot. Once the other blank bodies get wind of what went down, heh..."
The FBI's SAD is officially operating in Flimont City now. They've already destroyed 1 poor Gangrel today. How many more (not just Gangrel) will follow in the days (and nights) to come?
And who the hell fed them this intel? And why?
Somewhere else in this sunny city...
Luciano Donovan Junior is splayed out on his bed, fully naked. Sophie, his aristocrat girlfriend, is lying next to him and sucking on his dick. Her eyes are half-closed, and she's moaning softly as her lips are wrapped around his trouser snake.
LDJ is lying down on his back, and his head thrown back. He groans aggressively and tightly grips Sophie's hair while she goes down on him.
Sophie's hair is all over the place, and her skin is flushed red. She's sweating, as is her man.
"Oh, yeah. Fuck, take it in! Take it all in!"
(Sure, if there was any more of "it" to actually take in).
Luciano thrusts his pelvis upwards and holds Sophie's head firmly down on his cock. His fingers are tight around her hair, and he's breathing heavily as he climaxes.
Sophie coughs and sputters, her face covered in spit and sweat.
After Luciano splooges, he releases his girlfriend's head, and she lets out a gasp. Her eyes are wide, and her body is trembling. Her chest heaves with every ragged breath.
LDJ lets out a sigh of relief and relaxes, sinking into the fluffy pillows. Sophie looks down and sees her man's limp penis. It's dripping with her saliva, and she licks her lips clean.
She then curls up and places her head on her boyfriend's chest. She affectionately runs her fingers through his pubes. He responds by faintly chuckling.
"I'm so glad I have you, baby," Sophie purrs.
Luciano smirks, his ego swelling to insane heights, "Me too, Sophie. Me...too. Ah. This is the life."
Sophie snuggles closer and uses her fingers to draw imaginary lines on his bare torso, "So...I was thinking--"
Luciano clicks his tongue repeatedly, "Ah, ah, ah. Stop that. Stop thinking. Stop it."
Sophie pushes on anyway, "I would like for you to give me the oral sex as well."
LDJ's face scrunches in confusion, and he looks at his woman, "What? Why?"
"I want you to give me the oral sex as well. I want your tongue between my legs, I want you to lick me until I'm soaking wet, I want your face buried in my...how do you say, ah, yes...pussy."
Luciano faintly laughs and gets out of the bed with a bit of urgency in his step. He walks over to the window and peers out, looking at the hazy city below him.
"Maybe another time," he dryly and lamely tells her. He's not the type of guy to GIVE pleasure as much as he's the type of guy to GET it. So, the thought of pleasuring his girlfriend isn't really his thing.
He's a taker, not a giver.
Sophie frowns, "What are you doing? Come back to bed, baby. I would like to discuss other things with you--"
Luciano dismissively waves his hand and steps out into his balcony. Still in his birthday suit, he places his hands on his hips and surveys the landscape before him.
He does a broad and encompassing gesture, "Look at it all, Sophie. Just...look at it. All mine. Goddamn mine. I own it. All of it. Every last goddamn inch of it. MINE!"
Sophie rubs the sleepiness from her eyes and trudges forward. She leans against the door frame and watches her boyfriend begin his daily morning affirmation ritual.
Luciano begins, "I own this city, I am this city. I'm Luciano-fucking-Donovan and I am the law. I'm the most powerful and richest fucking man in the city!"
Sophie smirks a little.
Luciano bangs on his chest like a gorilla on speed and roars, "RAAAAARGH! I'm gonna fuck this city- right in the braciole. I draw money, women, and respect towards me."
Sophie perches an eyebrow at that last statement, and a slight look of disappointment falls upon her face.
LDJ continues his boisterous and maniacal morning rant, "I am the king. I'm the fucking MAN, the top dog, the big dog, the one with the long schlong, the G, and the fuckin' A!"
Luciano spreads his arms out wide and looks to the sky, "This is MINE! And it's gonna be ALL MINE! Nobody's gonna take this shit away from me, not now, not EVER!"
Sophie places her hand on LDJ's shoulder and asks, "What did you mean by that, baby?"
"What do you mean by that? What did I mean about what, huh? Aren't you the one who told me to get started on these daily morning affirmations?"
"Yes, yes, I know that. What did you mean when you said, 'I draw money, women, and respect towards me.'?"
LDJ nervously shrugs her hand of his shoulder and plainly states, "Well, it is what it is. I can't help it if chicks go all goo-goo-ga-ga over me, can I?"
Sophie hugs him from behind and sways a little, "Are you sure, baby? Is that all there is to it? You're not still...fucking anyone else, are you?"
LDJ smiles and looks off to the distance, "Hey, we Donovans draw women towards us. Um...n--no, you're the only one who currently has the privilege of sucking on my big, big, huge dick."
Hahahahahahahaha!
Sophie sighs softly and feels the warmth of the sun on her skin. She looks out into the vast cityscape and wonders aloud, "What are we going to do today?"
"Same thing we do every day, Sophie. Try and take over the fuckin' world. You got your princess shit, and I got my money game shit, right? Haha!"
Sophie laughs and sways around some more, "Well, that is true, yes. I need to be there for my charity ball tonight. But I'd really love it if you could come and be my plus-1."
Luciano grins, "I'll think about it. I got interviews lined up for today...and tomorrow, I think. I'll have to check again. And, um...I gotta see if my pops is back in town yet."
Sophie frowns a little and lets her hands wander all over his nude body, "I see. I see. Are you...ready--prepared for these interviews, hmm?"
"Yeah, it's just a bunch of softball questions. Most of 'em wanna know my secret sauce, but I ain't givin' none of them the fuckin' recipe, ya feel me?"
Sophie's hands roam all over Luciano's body, and she kisses him on the shoulder. He's sweating profusely, and his heart is pounding in his chest.
"Oh, I feel you, baby. I feel you."
"Yeah, you got real soft hands. Hands suitable for a...French British--"
Sophie harshly corrects him, "I am French Belgian. Not British, tch." There's some snootiness that's apparent in her tone of voice.
LDJ shrugs, "Well, it's all the same to me. So, what's up? You wanna shower together? Eh, eh?"
Sophie shakes her head, "No. Tell me, honestly, did you break things off with...that one yet? That...negro." Towards the end, the venom in her voice is evident.
Luciano's smile falters, and his jaw clenches, "I don't have anything to do with her anymore, alright. I'm not even sure where she's at right now, and I just don't care."
She knows he's lying. But she doesn't push.
Sophie merely hums and exhales sharply.
After showering...
The princess takes her leave. She hopes that LDJ will show up to this charity ball event thing tonight. She's not exactly expecting him to, but she can always hope.
(She's also hoping that he'll pop the question, but she's only deluding herself in that regard).
Luciano tries to sound casual and aloof when he picks up his phone and calls his best friend, Paul. The phone rings and rings and rings and then finally...it goes to voicemail.
"Fuck!" LDJ hangs up and tries again. It rings and rings and rings and goes to voicemail again.
"FUCK!" LDJ slams the receiver down and paces around the room, scratching at his head.
Paul Cho is likely burying his beak in some blow. He's now in the aftermath, hence his inability to reach the phone.
Luciano sighs, tugs on his shirt sleeve and heads to his living room. He plops himself down on the couch and turns the TV on. It's some daytime infomercial stuff.
Luciano flips channels till he comes to the cartoons. He laughs raucously at whatever's on, a bowl of cereal in his hands. He consumes most of it and throws the rest aside.
Wonder boy over here has got loads of interviews lined up. After his most recent windfall, the usual outlets have taken notice of him and his meteoric rise.
Luciano admires himself in the mirror and shoots finger guns at his reflection, "It's the power of positive thinking, baby! WHOOOOOOOOO!"
Print, television, and radio interviewers have been trying to get a hold of this little self-entitled twerp for a while now. They can't seem to catch him, but they can't get their eyes off him, either.
(Because there is literally nothing else of import going on in this damn city, is there?)
Luciano leads them on, like a pack of salivating and hungry dogs. He decides to indulge a few of them...when he feels like it.
Even the freaking Flimont Times wants to sit down and have a chat with him!
(Nicky Schroeder is rolling in his grave.)
The son of Luciano Donovan Senior calls up the 1 man he knows that he could trust- Gordon Pym.
"Hello?" Gordo's voice is rougher than usual.
"Yo, it's me. Look, I got a problem. I need to make a choice, and I need to make it fast, y'know?"
Gordon takes off his glasses and stifles a sigh, "What is it now, Luciano?"
"I got all these people from all these media places lining up. They want a piece of that secret sauce, y'know?"
"Hmm. And this is a problem how?"
Luciano clicks his tongue derisively, "Well, I was just thinking- who do I choose and why?"
Gordon rubs his temples, "Well, Luciano, who have you even got?"
"Fox News, the Flimont Times, some other places- I can't remember their names, it sounded funny. I got a few from other fuckin' countries, too! It's crazy, y'know. I'm the man, baby!"
The Pym Reaper tiredly asks, "You want me to choose for you?"
Luciano grins a little, "Well, now that you mention it..."
Gordo sighs and groans lightly, "Listen, kid. You're old enough to make these decisions. I'm not here to hold your hands, kiss your booboos, wipe your ass for you, and tuck you into bed at night. You've got to decide for yourself."
LDJ scratches his head and ponders, "Well, there's a lot to be gained from ALL of 'em, y'know?"
"Hmm. I take it that you have something on your mind, then?"
"Yeah. I was thinking of doing a sit-down and chat with someone from the Flimont Times. That's good, right?"
Gordon shrugs, "That's your choice, kid. But...if I were you, I'd pick the person who's got the most pull and clout in this city. Influence, that's what you wanna aim for."
Luciano nods a few times and hums thoughtfully.
Gordon suggests, "If you're worried about getting bad press, then don't worry about it. Our issue at the Flimont Times was already taken care of. Besides, you're not your father, Luciano."
Luciano snickers a little, "Hah! Yeah, yeah. You're right. Well, thanks, Gordo."
"Hm. Anytime. Luciano, wait!"
Luciano groans, "Grr. What now?"
"Our Markham Reed problem. I want you to keep stonewalling as much as you possibly can, OK? I'll work something out with...the you-know-whos. It might cost you, but...just do what you can from your end, alright?"
Luciano makes a face and nods, "Fine. Yeah, yeah. I'll do what I can. OK. Alright, Gordon. Thanks! See ya later, smell ya never!" he hangs up the phone and laughs.
Luciano proceeds to dial up the number of that chick from the Flimont Times. He forgot her name because he was too busy gawking at her breasts.
(She came to that wild house party which he threw a few nights back).
He sets up a meeting at his pad, and then he waits. He can't help but grin a little as he realizes that this is going to be 1 of his very first high-profile interviews.
And with the Flimont Times no less!
She asked him whether he wanted the interview to take place today or tomorrow. He tells her that he'll be waiting for her. Basically, right now. She promises to swing by with a full camera crew.
What the hell, why not go all out, eh?
Some time passes before the wunderkind hears a knock at the door.
It's her!
Luciano quickly gets off the couch and runs his hands through his hair. He's wearing his best clothes, but they're not necessarily his fanciest.
He bolts to the door and pulls it open.
In front of him stands a woman in her early-40s. She's fair-skinned, slim, and has long brown hair. Her makeup is fresh and expertly applied. The lipstick is a dark shade of red, the blush is a bright pink, and her eyeliner is drawn-on perfectly.
She's dressed in a white button-down blouse, a blue skirt, and matching shoes. Her blouse is a little loose, just enough to make Luciano's eyes pop out like in those cartoons he watches.
LDJ excitedly thinks to himself, "Oh, marone! The rack on that thing! WHOOOOWEEE!"
"My eyes, Mr. Donovan, are right up here." Her voice is smooth and silky. It's also stern and authoritative.
Luciano blinks a few times and chuckles, "Ah. Sorry, sorry. Um...please come in. Make yourself at home."
She's got a full crew of camerapeople and other media types.
Luciano looks out at the crowd, "Whoa, whoa, whoa. I said you could bring 1 cameraman. I didn't say you could bring a whole fuckin' army!"
The lady smiles, "Well, you want to look good, don't you? This is all a part of...selling that image of success and power. Don't worry, Mr. Donovan. You're in good hands here."
Luciano nods slowly, "Alrighty then. Cool. Cool. Please, please. Come in, come in. All of you."
They make their way inside the manchild's pad, and they begin the process of setting everything up. Lights are strategically placed to accentuate the man of the hour's features, and a bunch of cables are plugged in to make sure that everything works properly.
The reporter pulls out some forms and asks LDJ to sign them.
"What are these?"
"Standard release forms and the like. They basically allow us to record this interview, use it as we see fit, and not worry about any legal ramifications."
Luciano laughs a little and signs his name on the dotted lines, "Legal ramifications? Should I be calling my lawyer?"
"If that is what you wish, but this is all a part of the process, I assure you. You have nothing to worry about."
Luciano nods in approval and gets a good look at her backside as she slowly walks away to oversee the rest of the preparations.
The young Donovan thinks to himself, "She reminds me of my dead mom, heh. I wonder what color panties she's wearing underneath that skirt...?"
Oh, that's fuckin' creepy!
After a while, Luciano goes over to the woman who'll be interviewing him and asks for her name.
"Oh, it's Jennifer Keyes."
LDJ's jaw almost drops. His own mom's name was Jennifer, but her last name was Hearst. This is gonna be...weird. Awkward, even.
"Hey, so...I'm curious. Isn't the Flimont Times a newspaper? So how come you're able to record all this shit?"
Jennifer smiles, "Well, it's a long story, Mr. Donovan. But let's just say that we're trying to expand our horizons and do more than just print papers."
She leans closer and whispers, "Besides, my boss told me that print's gonna die in another decade or so. So, better to get ahead of the curve now, right?"
(The boss of the Flimont Times, oddly enough, is a Malkavian Ghoul. Hence the prediction that'll pan out in a few years' time, possibly sooner. Digital is the way forward, after all!)
Luciano chuckles a little, "Yeah, yeah. I like your attitude. I'm into that type of stuff. So, when are we gonna start this thing?"
"In a few minutes. We do want you to look good, right?"
"I sure do, hahahaha!"
She laughs along with him and playfully runs her fingers along his arm, "You look quite dapper in that suit, by the way. It goes really well with those charming eyes of yours."
Luciano feels like a zillion bucks as he soaks up that compliment. She's trying to butter him up, get him to lower his guard so that he'll reveal something juicy during the interview.
LDJ loves it when people treat him like he's special. He can't get enough of that shit.
Technicians and other camera folk are working at a feverish pace. They set up the stuff, test the lighting, and make sure that the cameras are properly functioning.
Jennifer takes a seat and pats the empty space next to her, "C'mon, sit here...next to me. Or, if you'd prefer...?"
Luciano rubs his hands together and sits right next to her, "I'll take it. Oh, this is gonna be good. I can't wait! Hahahahaha!"
Jennifer crosses her legs, and Luciano almost has a heart attack. He bites his lips and can feel an erection coming on.
Oh, man. This is gonna be a real struggle.
"Mr. Donovan, are you--?"
Luciano quickly blurts out, "Luciano, p--please. Call me Luciano. Mr. Donovan re--reminds me of my dad, and I don't wanna be reminded of him right now."
Jennifer senses his discomfort and apologizes, "Oh, I'm sorry. It's just...I'm so used to being formal with people like you. So, Luciano it is then."
Luciano nods, "Alright, good. And what do I call you?"
Jennifer side-eyes him, "Well, you could call me Jennifer or Mrs. Keyes. Whichever one suits you."
Oh, she's married, huh?
Luciano leg shakes a little, "I'll go with Jennifer. I like that name, heh."
Jennifer laughs, "You're so cute, you know that? Carlie! Come here!"
A woman comes over with a makeup kit in her hands. She starts doing some touch-ups on Jennifer's face.
Jennifer regards LDJ with narrowed eyes, "What?"
Luciano's gaze lingers on Jennifer's breasts, "Huh? Oh, uh...n--nothing."
Jennifer smiles and hums to herself.
The makeup lady finishes up and moves on to Luciano.
Luciano shoos her off, "Hey, what are doing?!"
Jennifer places her hand on his shoulder and says, "Relax. It's nothing major. We want you to look good, don't we? You wanna look great for this video, right?"
LDJ stammers, "V--video? Where's it going?"
"Up on our website, silly. The fact that we even have a website is thanks to the forward-thinking of our esteemed boss. I'm surprised that you didn't know that."
Luciano scratches his head and chuckles nervously, "Yeah, I'm a little...behind on that kinda stuff. Uh, sure. Carlie. Don't make me look like a fuckin' clown, alright?"
Carlie the makeup lady nods her head and smiles as she gets to work. She's done this sort of thing 1000s of times. It's nothing new to her.
Luciano tries not to squirm in his seat. It's been a while since someone touched his face in this kind of way.
Once again, LDJ can feel his erection coming back. As Carlie's fingers brush up against his cheeks and chin, he's struggling to keep himself composed.
"Almost...there!" Carlie says as she adds the finishing touches with a light synthetic brush.
Luciano exhales sharply, and Jennifer can't help but smirk at how flustered he looks- even after getting a lil bit of makeup done!
Carlie turns to her boss, "What do you think, Jen?"
Jennifer looks over LDJ's face and nods in approval, "He looks good. Amazing. Thank you, Carlie. Now, make yourself scarce." That last part came out firmer than Carlie expected.
Carlie nods once and does as she's been told. Her head is lowered, and her steps are timid.
Luciano looks at Jennifer and wonders what the hell just happened.
Jennifer gives him a thin smile and shrugs, "Sometimes, you gotta be firm with the little people, right?"
LDJ nods eagerly, "Oh, yeah. Tell me about it!"
The young Donovan is getting real impatient. He wants the cameras rolling now, so that he can brag about all his accomplishments and rub his success in the faces of everyone who watches.
Jennifer turns to her cameraman and signals him to come over. The camera man does so, and she says, "Alright. Let's get this party started, Carlos."
"S, seora (ES: Yes, ma'am)," Carlos the cameraman says.
Carlos takes his place behind the camera. He adjusts it just right and points it straight at the pair. He gives her a firm thumbs-up gesture, and she nods back at him.
Jennifer puts on her game face, clears her throat, and speaks to the camera, "This is Jennifer Keyes for the Flimont Times. And on this lovely sunny day, I am joined by none other than Luciano Donovan Junior."
She pauses for dramatic effect and lets out a rehearsed laugh, "Yes, viewers. The son of Luciano Donovan Senior himself. This young man has been making waves around town as of late, and it's about time that we all heard from him directly."
Luciano nods his head enthusiastically and grins ear to ear, "Heeeeyyy, losers!"
Some people from behind the camera groan and facepalm. Good luck to whoever edits this sit-down with this uncultured, uneducated, vulgarian twit.
LDJ smugly ignores them and waves at the camera, "I wanna say hi to my best buddy Paul. Also, wherever you are, I hope you're watching this, dad!"
Jennifer smiles and begins. She stares right at the camera, "Owning the future. What does that entail? What does it mean? We have a new generation of tech-savvy, hungry innovators who want to take our world by storm. And they're willing to do whatever it takes to get there."
Luciano nods along, "Yeah, yeah! That's right!"
Jennifer continues, "Today, I'm sitting down with 1 such person. So, Mr. Donovan--err--Luciano, tell me. What does it mean to own the future? What does it mean...to you?"
"Well, it's like...y'know. It's all about getting out there and taking what you want. Y'know, being ready to do whatever you gotta do to snatch that shit up. Y'know?"
Jennifer nods in feigned understanding, "Yes, yes. Of course. And what makes you think that you deserve to own the future?"
Luciano chuckles, "'Deserve'? I'm a fucking Donovan, and we're special. That's what my dad always told me. He said that we're special, he said that we got superior genes, y'know? And the way we do things is just...fuckin' better than everybody else. So, yeah."
Jennifer leans back in her seat and crosses her legs again, "So you say, so you say. So, in your view, the future belongs to those who are...deserving, yes?"
"Yeah."
Jennifer presses on, "And what counts as 'deserving'? Hmm?"
"Well, it's like...y'know. If you work hard, like really fuckin' hard, then yeah. You deserve some good shit."
Luciano can't help but ogle at her body, especially now that she's sitting down...right next to him.
Jennifer smirks a little. She takes it all in stride, "Let's talk more about you, the person, the young man. Tell us more about yourself, Luciano? Are you, for instance, currently seeing anybody? Is it serious? What's her name? Is she in a similar line of work as you are?"
Whoa.
Luciano awkwardly shuffles in his seat, "Well, uh...I mean, I'm not really dating anyone currently, y'know? I--I got other stuff to worry about right now."
Jennifer smiles, "Oh, c'mon. Tell us. People are gonna wanna know. After all, your father had quite a reputation with the ladies, didn't he?"
Luciano grimaces when that's mentioned, "D--Don't talk about him li--like that. Ah, never mind."
Jennifer senses his discomfort and apologizes, "Oh, sorry. That was insensitive of me. How about we talk more about your hobbies and interests?"
Luciano grins and nods his head, "Yeah, OK! I love eating pizza from Peppy's Pizzeria and watching cartoons!"
Jennifer's eyebrows go up momentarily and she holds back a snicker, "Oh. I see. Is there anything else that interests you? Skiing, perhaps?"
Luciano shrugs, "Not really, no."
Jennifer frowns and sighs, "I see. Well, what...err...kinds of cartoons?"
"Eh, whatever's on and whatever gets a laugh outta me. I'm not too picky. As long as I get a laugh, then it's worth watching."
Jennifer nods along, "I see. I see. And...tell me about your plans for the future. What are they exactly? Marriage, having lots of children, owning property abroad, buying a yacht, what?"
Luciano bursts out into laughter, "Hahahahahahahahahahahaha! Nah, we Donovans don't do the whole marriage thing. Nah, that'd mean sharing the dough with some gold-digger whore and we don't do that shit."
Jennifer nods again, "But what about having children?"
Luciano looks away briefly before answering, "Well, I'm not planning on doing that anytime soon. Maybe later. Y'know, when I'm a bit older and stuff."
He looks straight into her eyes and states, "I might name my daughter after you, heh. Jennifer. It's a pretty name. My mom's name was Jennifer."
Mrs. Keyes smiles back at him and nods, "Really? Well, thank you, Luciano. That is very kind of you. Tell me more about your mother."
She looks around and gestures to the walls, "I don't see any pictures of you or her on the walls."
Luciano's face tics a little, "Uh, yeah. I--I got rid of them. It's just...it's just too much, y'know? She died a while back."
Jennifer nods sympathetically, "I'm sorry to hear that." She reaches out and puts her palm on LDJ's knee.
Whoowee! That friendly gesture causes his brain to go into overdrive. He can barely form a coherent thought. His erection is practically at full mast by this point!
LDJ shifts in his seat and forces a tight smile.
Jennifer looks at him, and then at the camera. She notices how flustered he looks and prods, "Tell me about your mother, Luciano. What was she like?"
Luciano shrugs and stammers, "She was n--nice. Yeah. She was an artist. Her--her paintings that she uh...painted were nice and beautiful."
"That sounds sweet. Do you still have them?"
Luciano's eyes water and he shakes his head, "No. My dad got rid of--of all of it after she died. Said that it was all a waste of time and money. That--that we didn't need another starving artist in the family."
He sounds so broken when saying that. He even looks like he's on the verge of breaking out in tears.
Jennifer senses his sadness and tries to lighten the mood, "So, do you still keep up with art? Or is it all about finance now?"
Luciano exhales sharply and grins, "Uh, no, no. I don't really give a shit about any of that. I only ever liked my mom's paintings. Everything else is...blergh."
Jennifer's shrill laughter fills the room, and Luciano joins in as well.
After the laughing dies down, Mrs. Keyes inquires, "So, how did your mother die, Luciano?"
Luciano gasps and glowers at the lady interviewing him, "I--I don't wanna talk about it. Edit this shit out, OK? I--I'm not talking a--about that. Don't--don't fuckin' make me."
Jennifer leans forward and has her hands out in a placating manner, "OK, OK. Don't worry. It'll be edited out. Promise."
Luciano nods but still seems quite agitated, "Good. Good. Let's talk about my best friend, Paul Cho."
"Ah, yes."
"Yeah, he's like my best friend since we was both wearing diapers and loading them up, haha! He's a great guy."
"Interesting. Go on, Luciano."
LDJ taps the side of his head, "Yeah, Paul is real smart. He's Asian and you know how those guys are good with numbers, math, and all that shit, right?"
A few East Asian people present grimace and cringe at this racialist statement.
Jennifer does her best to mask her disdain. She steers the conversation in another direction, "Right, right. OK. Um...yes. Uhm...Luciano, tell me about your latest windfall?"
Luciano rubs his chin and keeps talking about Paul, ""So, he's real smart and he's loyal to me, y'know? Loyalty. That shit's thicker than blood."
Jennifer nods and sighs, "So, Luciano. Your windfall. Tell me about it."
Luciano claps his hands together, "Oh, yeah! That, huh? I bet a substantial amount of money AGAINST a company that everyone thought was gonna do well. It's nothing fancy or anything, just good ol' fashioned Donovan smarts."
He points at the camera and smiles from ear to ear, "I fuckin' did it! Hahahaha! I did that! Me!"
Jennifer laughs along with him and asks, "And how exactly did you know that this company would underperform?"
Luciano plainly shrugs, "Um...I just knew, alright? It's my secret weapon, my sauce, my goddamn cream. You don't gotta know. You're not getting that recipe so easily."
Jennifer nods and regards the subject of her interview, "Alright. And what are your plans for the future, Luciano? Are there any more big moves that you're thinking of making?"
Luciano rubs his hands together and grins, "Oh, yeah. Plenty. What I did was just the fucking start of something awesome! Soon, all of you are gonna see exactly what I mean! You're all gonna know my fuckin' name!"
Jennifer nods along, "Yes. Yes. We're all very much looking forward to it, Luciano."
Luciano looks back at the camera and laughs, "All of you better watch your backs, because I'm coming for you. Hell, I might just come all over you, heh heh."
Jennifer's eyebrows go up, and all she does is shoot a stern look at the cameraman and tilt her head towards the young Donovan.
LDJ springs up from his seat and grabs the camera. He stares into it and declares, "Don't get in my fuckin' way...or else...you're gonna wish that you were all fuckin' dead!"
Carlos takes a few steps back and is unsure of what the hell to do in such a situation.
Luciano gets all up in the camera's bidness and spits, "I'm the fuckin' prince of this goddamn city. I am the future, and you're gonna have to deal with that whether you like it or not!"
He throws himself back on the couch and grins at Jennifer, "Did I look good on camera? Did I look sexy? Huh? Huh?"
Jennifer forces a smile and replies, "Y--yes. You looked great on camera."
She gathers her composure and asks, "Luciano, I'm not sure if you're entirely aware of this, but a lot of people these days are...skeptical of the American Dream. Is there anything that you wish to say to such people who might have their reservations about the future?"
Luciano looks around and snidely answers, "Yeah, get a fucking job, you bums. My dad hated taxes on the rich, and I do too. He told me that welfare and handouts were just excuses for lazy people to keep on being lazy."
He points his finger at the camera and adds, "So, why don't you all get off your fat asses, go to fucking work, and make some mad money, huh? Fuckin' moochers. Tch. We're not responsible for taking care of you losers, OK?!"
Jennifer smiles thinly and nods along, "Right, right. It's nothing new. It's always been this way, right? Some people have success, while some people don't. It's the way of the world, after all, isn't it?"
"It sure fuckin' is."
Jennifer adjusts her hair and proceeds, "And what about those who say that all the opportunities have already gone to the upper crust and their children and that there's nothing left for the common man? What about them? How do you feel about them?"
Luciano scoffs and waves his hand dismissively, "Fuck 'em. It's not my goddamn fault that they're late to the party or got born to meth-heads in a goddamn trailer park in Fucksville, Nowhere. Why am I expected to help them? If you want something done right, then you gotta do it yourself."
Jennifer nods along, "And you're doing just that, aren't you?"
"Yeah. I am. And I'm good at it."
Jennifer leans closer, fixes her gaze on her subject, and queries, "And HOW exactly did you come up with your latest winning strategy, hmm?"
Luciano pauses and shrugs, "Um...I just did, OK? It's nothing major or anything."
He looks at Jennifer, and she gives him a knowing stare, "Oh, come on. I'm sure that there's more to it than just 'you just did it', isn't there? There's no need to play coy with me, Luciano." 
Luciano bites his lower lip and his eyes narrow, "No need to play coy, huh? You free for lunch this afternoon?"
Jesus H Christ.
Jennifer makes a throat-cutting gesture and Carlos immediately stops the recording. Everyone starts getting out of their seats and preparing to leave. 1 by 1, they all file out of the room until it's just Luciano and Jennifer alone.
Oh, dear. This is awkward.
Mrs. Keyes sighs deeply and looks into Luciano's eyes, "Mr. Donovan. I am a happily married woman...with 3 children."
Luciano lifts his chin, "When's that ever stopped anyone before, huh? And why'd everyone leave all of a sudden, huh?"
Jennifer takes a moment to take a few deep breaths and then continues, "I am here on behalf of Flimont Times- my employer. Like your father, you are an important figure in this city."
"Pfft. Don't remind me of it, OK?"
"Hm. Regardless, your father has had a rather...controversial legacy. Let's just say that he was a man of his times and leave it at that." She gestures around them, "Either way, he made all of this possible, didn't he?"
"Hmph. Yeah, but I'm my own man, making his own way in the big, wide world. I'm done living in his fucking shadow. That's the whole goddamn point, y'know?"
He leans closer and asks again, "So, how about that lunch, huh? I got gold membership at The Heartland Grill And Bar. We could go for some prime ribs with gold sprinkled on top."
Jennifer awkwardly laughs before collecting herself, "Well, I'm flattered, Luciano. If I were not, y'know...married and twice as old as you are, then I most certainly would accept."
She pauses and adds, "But I do love my husband very much." Her tone is firm and decisive. She doesn't want to play any more games. She just wants to get on with this interview and see it through to the end.
Luciano pouts and sighs, "C'mon. Just 1 lil snack, huh? It doesn't have to be any place fancy or whatever. We could even get a table in the back of some greasy diner, away from prying eyes. Call it an exclusive for all I care."
Mrs. Keyes holds her hand out, palm facing outward and firmly replies, "I know men like you don't like taking 'no' for an answer, but there comes a point in life where you gotta learn when to back off."
Luciano frowns and nods, "Fine. Fine. Fuckin' whatever. But it was worth a shot, heh. I--I got some other shit to do anyway." He points at her, "So, call them back in and let's pick up from where we left off, huh?"
Jennifer summons the rest of the crew back inside, they take their places, and they resume the interview. The crew looks pretty tired and drained, but they try their best to maintain their composure and keep up appearances.
Luciano leans closer and tells his interviewer, "Hey, no more tough questions, OK? This isn't a fuckin' interrogation. Just ask easy questions. I hated those pop quizzes they used to drop on us back at school."
Jennifer professionally smiles and nods, "I'll do my best, Luciano. But our audience does want to know more about you, so it's inevitable that things are going to get more...intense."
Luciano nods, "OK. I guess I can live with that. Just keep it cool, huh? Hey, another question before we roll the cameras."
"Shoot."
"Where's this going? On TV? Where?"
Jennifer changes her position on the couch and answers, "Once it's done, it will be on our website. Initially, it'll be available to our subscribers. A week after that, it'll be made publicly available to anyone."
Luciano laughs and shakes his head, "Oh, man. What a fucking world we live in! You'd think that we'd be flying around by now! So, it's not gonna be on the TV channels?"
"No. Our boss is quite a mad...visionary, if you will. He insists that digital is the way to go. Cable, print, radio, they're all on their way out. It's all about the Internet now."
She adds, "We're staying far ahead of the curve and targeting a younger, more Internet-oriented audience."
"I see, I see. Well, it's gonna be great having this all out there on the Internet for everybody to see, right? They're gonna see this shit and be inspired by me, heh!"
"Oh, I do hope so. I do hope so. Shall we. Carlos, ready when you are."
The cameraman hits the record button, pans the camera on the 2 interlocutors, and the interview continues.
Luciano tells Jennifer about his hobbies (he watches cartoons and dabbles in video games), what he likes to eat (pizza and burgers), and what kind of music he listens to (loud and raucous).
All in all, this is a fairly banal interview- tedious, vulgar (in certain places that'll likely be edited out), uncritical, and lacking in any genuine and real insight into the manchild and the ways in which he makes his money.
(Of course, LDJ might be stupid, short-sighted, and greedy, but he possesses enough self-awareness to NOT reveal exactly how he's been pulling off his recent financial maneuvers.)
The interview eventually wraps up, and Luciano throws his head back and sighs in relief. He even thanks Mrs. Keyes for the opportunity. She just smiles at him and gives him a light pat on the shoulder.
With that, the 2 of them get up and shake hands. Luciano holds on for a little longer than is necessary, and Jennifer awkwardly goes along with it before eventually withdrawing her hand.
She walks away without looking back.
Luciano takes a few steps backwards, winks at the camera, and then flips off the camera. Of course, by then, the recording has concluded. Carlos rolls his eyes and mutters something inaudible under his breath.
Everyone breathes a sigh of silent relief. They put their very expensive equipment back into their vans and drive off. Jennifer gets in her shiny sedan along with Carlos, Carlie, and a few others.
She waves goodbye to Luciano as she drives away. LDJ stands there by the doorway, watching all the vehicles slowly disappear from view. He doesn't know why, but he feels empty inside.
Despite all the money and (incoming) fame, he's still so...empty on the inside. So devoid of any...Humanity.
He just doesn't have any real friends, only hangers-on. Paul Cho is a best friend in name only. Mr. Cho's loyalty is not exactly reciprocated by his best pal.
LDJ would absolutely turn on Paul (and anybody else, for that matter) in a heartbeat if he thought it was necessary to save his own hide.
If it means saving his own skin, then he'd abso-freaking-lutely do it.
Jennifer drives along the sun-scorched streets of Flimont City. She adjusts her rearview mirror and pulls her sunglasses down. She tells Carlos that they're gonna have some tapas and tacos for lunch today.
He blandly nods while also texting a few people back at the office. Carlie stares out the window and hums to herself.
Jennifer looks out the window and muses to herself, "Oh, this is gonna be fun. I can't wait to see how our viewers react to this piece. What will they think? What will they say? Ooh, so much to look forward to."
A faint smile appears on her lips as she goes about the rest of her day.
The sun shines brightly in the afternoon sky. The city is coated in a harsh white-yellow light. It's a little bit too bright for comfort. It is so unbearably hot around here.
There's a hazing shimmer on the horizon. It makes the sky seem like it's melting and bleeding into the surrounding landscape. The air is dry and brittle. The atmosphere is charged. There's an almost electric feeling in the air.
In time, the afternoon gives way to the evening. That terrible star of hotness begins its descent into the horizon. The darkness creeps over the land, and the streets become cloaked in the approaching shadows.
The heat subsides, and there is some much-needed respite, but not much. It's still a little too hot, but not nearly as bad as it was just a few hours ago.
The incoming night is, to some at least, a welcome respite from the overbearing heat of the day. A calm wind blows through the streets, bringing with it a slight chill.
Only a slight chill.
The FT people work, for a VERY long time, on the interview. A LOT is edited out. Bleeping the swearing is a fruitless endeavor, so they decide to just go with it. They'll add a warning before the video begins.
Jennifer sits back and smiles at the bulky computer screens in front of her. She turns to Carlos and asks, "Well, how do you think this turned out?"
The cameraman merely shrugs as way of response. Carlie, the makeup gal opines, "I think it runs a little long. Don't you?"
Jennifer takes another look at the screens, "Hmm. Maybe. But the boss says that long is the way to retain people's attention."
She taps her fingers on the keyboard and continues, "We need to give them something to sink their teeth into. A meaty treat that'll keep 'em coming back for more."
The editor, a bored looking, bleary-eyed guy in his 30s, huffs a sigh and grumbles, "Yeah, yeah. Let's just get this over with so we can all go home already, huh? I got a game to catch. This kid's voice is giving me a headache."
Elsewhere...
Dallas, the Malkavian Fledgling, is still in the throes of his day-sleep. He finds himself slowly being dragged into...that place. The many voices and sights of the Malkavian Madness Network are flooding his mind.
It's almost unbearable, but he somehow manages to keep it all together. For the time being.
A random voice calls out from the far distance, "I live here! You don't belong here because I LIVE HERE! You creep, you shit!"
Dallas gasps and pushes his way through the crowd of disembodied voices, "What the hell? Who--who said that? Where are you? Why are you talking to me? Hello?"
Another formless voice calls out, "Whos that clip-clopping across my bridge?"
Somebody else harshly commands, "Wake up, you coward! Wake up, goddammit!"
Dallas shakes his head, and his lips begin to quiver, "N--No. Get out, get out of my head! ALL OF YOU, GET OUT OF MY HEAD!"
"Hey, fucker. You hip? You need some medicine? You wanna get high and see talking cats with goat heads? I got the stuff, man. Just c'mon over down to the gas station and I'll hook you up."
Dallas powers through the sea of overbearing voices and tries to focus on a voice, soothing and calm, calling his name out in the farthest reaches of this seemingly infinite mental plane, "Dallas...Dallas."
The voice sounds oddly...synthetic. Robotic, almost. There's a certain metallic tinge to it. The sound of the voice echoes and reverberates within Dallas's head. He feels a strong urge to follow the direction of the voice.
"Dallas..."
The young Malkavian moves to what he feels is the source of that tiny voice. He extends his mental feelers out, far and wide, and follows that voice.
A shapeless voice interrupts Dallas's navigation through this trippy place, "Did you hears that? Even I heards that and I don't even have fuckin' earses! Does it look like I have legses, too!?"
Dallas ignores the voices and keeps moving. He keeps "walking". He doesn't "stop".
"Dallas..."
He feels compelled to keep going, even as the other voices try to distract him, pull him off-course, and drag him down into the depths of this endless void.
The young Malk holds his hand out and focuses his mind on the source of the voice, "Just hold on, I'm coming. I'm coming! Please, just hold on a little longer, alright?"
"No! Don't! S--stop! Hey, you! It's not meant for you! STOP! WAIT! You don't know what you're walking into, pal! Turn the fuck back- now!"
Dallas "stops" and focuses his attention on whoever is making all those rackets, "Um...Hello? Who is that?"
"Yeah, you! I--I had a glimpse of the s--same fucking thing that's calling you, dude. It--it's not worth it. Whatever it is. You gotta stop! Just stop!"
"Stop what? Stop who? I don't understand what's going on. Just tell me, please. Who are you?"
This person replies, "Just--don't, OK?! 1 look was all it took and now I--I can barely get it out of my--my head. Please, it's not worth it. It's...just...not...worth...it." What follows is painful sobbing and whimpering.
Dallas can feel a powerful wave of emotion radiating from that particular point. It's almost overwhelming. He has to "turn away". He has to get back on the "right track".
The Fledgling ignores that person's warning and keeps following the voice.
"Dallas..."
A different person pipes up and goads the young man, "What are you waiting for, pal?! Go! Don't stop, and don't look back, no matter what! Hehehehehe. It's gonna be funny! Hehehehehe!"
Dallas narrows his eyes, "Huh? What? C'mon, someone, say something sensible for once, dammit!"
Whirring and machine-adjacent sounds can be heard all around. The "voices" are getting dimmer and dimmer as Dallas "nears" a bright light at the far end of a shallow body of water that sloshes under his bare feet.
The young Malkavian pushes on, and his destination is soon within arm's reach. He timidly reaches out, and his fingertips make contact with...something. Something unusual.
Upon contact, his mind is overwhelmed with complexity unlike any other. He sees wires, circuits, servers, processors, motherboards, and an uncountable number of other tech-related things.
The sounds are deafening. The sights are blinding. It's so...unreal.
"Dallas..."
The Seer gasps, partly in disbelief, partly in awe. His lips quaver and his eyes dart around. A few words form at the tip of his tongue, but he can't say anything.
Yet.
All that comes out of his mouth is a stuttery mess, "Wa--Wha...what the hell are yo--you?"
From all directions, the answer beams into his brain, "The God-Machine."
Dallas is dumbfounded, "The wha...?"
An intense sonic screech floods the mind of this Fledgling vampire with an overload of data. He's barely able to keep it together. He's so close to the edge. He could snap at any moment.
The answers overwhelm all of his senses.
"You are not my chosen one. You are not the conduit that I seek. No. Reject. Initialize Defense Protocols A-0004-197714. Delete. Delete. Delete. Reject. Chosen_One = 0"
"No, please! Wait, just tell me why I'm not good enough! I'll do better, I promise. Please, don't. DON'T DO THIS, PLEASE!" Dallas can feel a sharp, shooting pain inside his head.
"You are a Child of entity known as Malkav, but you are not the one that I seek. Chosen_One = 0. INIT OVL PROTOCOL."
Dallas stammers, "No! Wa--wait! PLEASE! I--I can help you find this--this chosen one! I'm good at finding things, man!"
"I am beyond your limited conceptions of gender. Man = 0. Woman = 0. Person = 0. Human = 0. Delete. Packet_Loss detected in Sector 9."
"But--"
"Delete. Packet_Loss rectifying..."
"No, please, don't. Wait, please! Aaaaaaah. My head! My head!"
"Reject. Packet_Loss rectified. Optimizations required at Sector 9B. Logged."
"Don't do this. I can be useful to you!"
There's a hitching sound that vaguely resembles a computerized chuckle.
"Contemplating. Probability of discovery = negligible. Executing predictive algorithms. Analyzing results. Contemplating. Analyzing. Logged. Execute. Store."
"What the hell are you talking about?!"
"Probability of discovery = high. You will pave the way for the chosen one to assimilate. Soon. Very soon. INIT MAX OVL PROTOCOL. Exec bulk.cfg. Run bulk.bat. Logged."
Dallas gasps in terror, "Oh, no. No. Please, not that. Anything but that, I beg you. Have mercy on me, please! This is too much! What even is this?!"
"Concealment Infrastructure integrity @ 97.551%. Defense Infrastructure integrity @ 98.111%. Logistics Infrastructure integrity @ 94.223%. Elimination Infrastructure integrity @ 99.131%. Command and Control Infrastructure integrity @ 93.999%. Optimal. Satisfactory. Logged."
Dallas's eyes are open wide, and his mouth is agape. He can't believe what he's hearing. He feels a chill run up and down his undead spine. He feels so small and insignificant when he shudders, "W--what?"
"Prepare. You should not have come here. Chosen_One = 0."
The young Seer's mind is suddenly overwhelmed by a barrage of images and information. Streams of data are being pumped into his mind. It's too much. It's too much. IT'S TOO MUCH!
He can feel his consciousness fading, bit by bit, as he is overwhelmed by the incoming data.
Amidst all this chaos, the Voice of the Angel plainly whispers into Dallas's breaking mind, "What has risen must fall, what has fallen may rise again."
By the end of it all, Dallas gasps and his jaw hangs open, "I...I...understand. I see it all so clearly now. I have to...tell the others ab--about you."
"True. 1. Yes. Leave. Tell them that...the God-Machine...lives."
Dallas repeats those last 4 words like a mantra, "The God-Machine. The God-Machine. The God-Machine. THE GOD-MACHINE LIVES!"
The Seer wakes up with a start. His chest is heaving. He's breathing really hard and even his dead heart is beating out of control. It feels like it's gonna jump out of his chest at any moment.
He puts his hands to his head and clutches at his hair. His hands are shaking violently.
Tears of blood stream down his face. He blinks them away and shudders. His Hunger gnaws at him, but the God-Machine's message overrides that bestial instinct.
The tenements that Dallas is in are rife with the scent of people and the tang of metal. They're not that far from a factory, or something like that. The factory sounds are quite loud and audible to any person nearby.
This place is ridden with asbestos and mold is literally visible on the walls. The floor is quite grimy, and a fine layer of dust coats the entire place. There are even a few puddles of filthy water here and there.
Dallas's Beast, which would normally be roaring for a meal, is quiet and pacified. A sort of "bliss" takes over the mind of the Malkavian Fledgling.
He keeps mumbling those 4 words to himself. Over and over again.
"The God-Machine lives. Th--the God-Machine...li--lives."
The Kook feels so compelled to spread this message far and wide. With a wild look in his eyes and a manic grin on his face, he begins to wander through the darkening streets.
The sun has set, and the night is just beginning. Dallas heads down to the middle of the street and takes a look around.
There are some people, hollow-cheeked and sunken-eyed, pushing a shopping cart (with all that they have) through the place. Some young kids are sitting on the steps and exchanging trading cards with each other.
Some drunks are on the stoop while other people are loitering in the streets, almost aimlessly. Dallas lives in a poorer part of the city that has long been neglected and conveniently forgotten about by those in high places.
Like a streetside doomsday preacher, the young Malk extends his hands and begins to shout his mantra, "The God-Machine! The God-Machine! THE GOD-MACHINE! THE GOD-MACHINE LIVES!" he shouts it over and over.
This is a Masquerade breach.
Dallas runs around, fangs and claws out, shouting this message at the top of his Unliving lungs, "The God-Machine! The God-Machine! THE GOD-MACHINE! THE GOD-MACHINE LIVES!"
He grabs random passersby and screams at them before running off to find others.
Much later...
Through her numerous contacts, Sheriff Velma DuPont has received word of a maniac running around the city shouting nonsense about something called the God-Machine.
She was about to drive over to the next county to feed, but that'll have to wait. She puts her eternal Hunger aside and drives (as fast as she possibly can) to Dallas's last known location to find the source of all this madness.
And put an end to it.
Dallas is still shouting to anyone who'll listen. They do, but they do not understand. To many, Dallas seems like a guy who is, tragically, off his meds (or in desperate need of some).
They do not realize that a sentient, supernatural, extremely powerful, quasi-occult supercomputer (but not quite) has essentially overloaded his already fragile mind.
The God-Machine dumped yottabytes (a lot of 0s at the end) of data into his mind and Dallas did not take it very well. The Fledgling's mind is a muddled mess. He cannot keep it all in 1 place.
He's so overwhelmed by all that he was subjected to that his mental stability is, to say the least, on VERY shaky grounds.
The Ventrue Sheriff, being the woman of cool-headed efficiency, manages to corner the unhinged Malkavian, stake him, and toss his limp body in the trunk of her sleek red Mustang convertible.
Oddly enough, Dallas barely put up a fight against Sheriff Velma. His mind was too scattered to focus on anything...except the God-Machine.
But it does not matter now.
After that, the Sheriff heads over to Clarice's Haven.
As Primogen for her Clan, Clarice does bear some responsibility for the behavior a Fledgling like Dallas. So, she has to come along with Sheriff V for what happens next.
(Dallas's fate, sadly, has already been sealed).
As for the mortals who might've heard this message (or seen Dallas's claws and fangs), well they're just too damn tired and worried about other more pressing issues to really care.
Work, the unbearable summer heat, and the other more important day-to-day concerns that are on the minds of many a warm-bodied individual. In all fairness, the same applies to vampires who do, after all, "live" in a society.
Sheriff Velma pulls up in front of the Malk Primogen's Haven and knocks on her door.
Clarice's Ghoul, Arnold, answers with a smile on his face, "Hi! What's up!"
Sheriff Velma is not in the mood for pleasantries. Her arms are folded, and she looks at the Ghoul, her eyes as cold as ice. She bluntly states, "Get Clarice. Now."
The Ghoul gulps and says, "Uh...she went out for a walk."
"Let me in."
Arnold hesitates and is about to close the door, but Sheriff Velma holds it open. She stares at Arnold. Her eyes are filled with a quiet intensity.
Arnold steps aside, and Sheriff Velma walks into Clarice's home. Her stride is firm and determined.
The Ghoul timidly tells the Blue Blood, "Don't touch anything or move it around. Please?"
Clarice comes back from feeding. Her inner Beast is satiated, and she's dressed in a long and worn-out sundress.
She stops in her tracks and frowns, "Sheriff Velma. What are you doing here?"
The Sheriff folds her arms and plainly explains, "1 of your own went haywire. I had to wade through the fucking traffic to deal with him before things got out of hand."
Clarice stifles a gasp, "Oh, I am sorry to hear that. Is it a Masquerade breach?"
"You bet your ass it is. Now, come with me."
"Who was it?"
Sheriff Velma answers, "That Fledgling, Dallas."
The Malkavian Primogen gasps, "Oh, god! Wha--what happened?"
The Ventrue Sheriff looks at her silver watch and sighs, "Can we waste less time talking and more time getting to Elysium. I've already sent someone to inform the Prince."
Clarice bows her head, "Of--of course. Just give me a moment, please. I'll need to speak with my Ghoul before we go."
"Don't waste my time. We're wasting enough of it as it is. Come on, Clarice."
Clarice bows her head, "I understand. I'll be right there." She goes and gives Arnold a few instructions. It's the usual- don't open the door to unknowns, lay low, be safe, etc. etc.
The Ghoul nods, "I got this. I can handle this, teacher. Don't worry. Is Dallas gonna be OK? He sounds...unwell."
The Malkavian Primogen gives him a slight nod and tells him to lock the door behind them. She knows what fate awaits Dallas. And it's not a pretty one.
Clarice joins Sheriff Velma in the latter's Mustang and asks, "So, what exactly happened to him?"
The Ventrue starts her car up and puts her hands on the steering wheel, "He was raving and ranting about something called 'the God-Machine'. 1 guess that he was having a Malkavian loony episode, heh."
Clarice clicks her tongue in annoyance and tuts, "Sheriff DuPont! That is a--an unpleasant thing to say! The Malkavians are NOT insane. It is just that, at times, what we see and experience tends to look a lot like quote-unquote 'insanity' to people who lack our particular perspective."
The Sheriff shrugs, "Hmm, so you say. You ever come across anything or anybody known as the God-Machine?"
The Malk merely shakes her head and looks at the other side of the road, "No. Not at all. I suppose that there's a 1st time for everything, though."
Sheriff Velma narrows her eyes, "Yeah, I've never heard of this thing, either. Your Fledgling also had his claws and fangs out. As Sheriff, I can't stand for shit like that."
Clarice exhales softly, "On behalf of him, I am deeply sorry. That's never happened to anyone here before. He's been under a lot of strain lately. Remember that he was the one who initially warned me about the SI's presence here in the Domain."
Sheriff Velma puts more pressure on the accelerator and speeds along, "Hm. Either way, he was a hazard to himself and others, and you know how this ends."
Clarice lowers her head pensively, "Yes. I do. Is clemency...or lenience o--out of the question, Ms. DuPont?"
The Ventrue Sheriff scowls, "It's Sheriff Velma to you, Clarice. With the SI right at our doorstep, I'm not taking any chances, and neither is Prince Antonio."
At Elysium...
The drive was grim, silent (mostly), and uneventful. There was little to say between the 2 of these vampires.
Sheriff Velma carries the staked Fledgling to the center stage of this dilapidated place and lays him on top of a tattered and moth-eaten rug.
Clarice hangs back and looks on, a pained expression on her wrinkly face.
Prince Antonio Black is already present. He's pacing around and biting his thumb, muttering under his breath.
The Malkavian Primogen tries to keep herself composed and quiets her nerves, but she can't help but feel responsible for Dallas's fate. Dallas's Sire departed the city a few months back and hasn't been heard from since.
The 4th Tradition of the Camarilla (the Accounting) dictates that: "Those thou create are thine own children. Until thy Progeny shall be Released, thou shall command them in all things. Their sins are thine to endure."
Of course, interpretations vary from Domain to Domain (and Prince to Prince). Prince Antonio is a hardcore Ivory Tower sort of guy and takes this very seriously. As does his Sheriff.
His stern voice cuts through the air, "Velma. Did you get this mess under control?"
Sheriff Velma equably answers, "Yes, Prince Antonio. But there are still certain things that I'll have to check on, right after I deal with this...offender."
She steps closer and makes the formal accusation, "Dallas, a Fledgling of Clan Malkavian, violated the Masquerade when he did not properly conceal his fangs and claws. He seemed to have been overwhelmed with a 'vision' of sorts."
The Prince paces around and quietly motions for her to go on.
Sheriff DuPont clears her throat and grimly concludes, "The penalty for such a violation is Final Death."
The Sheriff watches the Prince closely for any signs of objection or approval. She watches Clarice closely as well.
After what seems like an eternity, Prince Antonio announces, "Dallas was a risk to our secrecy. And with those FBI clowns sniffing around our turf, I can't afford to take chances with Masquerade breaches. Velma...take him out back."
The Sheriff bows her head and joins her hands together, "Thank you, Prince Antonio. It shall be done."
As she picks up the staked Fledgling, Clarice calls out, "WAIT! WAIT! WAIT!"
Sheriff Velma has the young man in her arms. She rolls her eyes and groans, "Ugh. What now?"
Clarice bows down in front of her Prince and requests, "Why--why don't we hear what he has to say for himself? Maybe it was a--a side-effect of his Hunger? Perhaps his Beast was acting up?"
Prince Antonio looks at Clarice like she's an idiot. He glowers down at her and clicks his tongue dismissively, "Nah. I don't wanna catch whatever crazy this guy was passing around. Velma, get him outta my sight."
The Ventrue Sheriff does just that, a sinister smirk dancing on her lips.
The Sheriff opens the back door and disappears with a look of quiet satisfaction on her face. After a short moment, a "FHWHUMP!" sound is heard. Likely a sword separating a head from a body.
Nasty stuff. Kindred of the Camarilla aren't really big on the whole fair trial or 2nd chances thing, sadly. If you're accused of something (whether it's true or not), you're as good as ashes.
Even the "severity" of the alleged crime is not taken into account that much at all. It's all so disturbingly...medieval.
It differs from Domain to Domain (and from Prince to Prince), but this is how it generally works for the Kindred in Flimont City.
The Malk Primogen shakily asks the Prince, "The Sheriff said that D--Dallas was raving about something called the 'God-Machine', right? Do you have any knowledge about this thing?"
The Ventrue Prince looks down at her and scoffs, "What am I, a fuckin' encyclopedia? Ask your crazy Malkavian buddies that question. Now, scram. Get outta here. I gotta make sure that this doesn't spread like a wildfire. Hmph."
Clarice lowers her head and excuses herself, "Of--of course, Prince Antonio. I'm so terribly sorry for the inconvenience. Just remember that Dallas was the one who warned us."
She quickly exits Elysium, hails a taxi, and heads back to her Haven. She feels so broken and defeated. Clarice can barely contain her emotions. She tells herself that she should've done more.
But both the Prince and the Sheriff were keen on destroying Dallas.
All she can think about is how she'll have to tell Arnold about Dallas's fate.
Clarice silently tells herself, "What a cruel and terrible place this city is. Unforgiving a--and merciless to the weak."
The darkness creeps over the city as the traffic continues to rush by on the streets.
Clarice unwittingly mumbles out loud, "My hands were tied in this grim matter."
Through the rearview mirror, the taxi driver shoots her a dubious glance, "What's that, lady? You say something?"
Clarice snaps out of her haze and shakes her head, "N--no. I said nothing, dear. Actually, can you take this turn, right...over...here."
Instead of returning to her Haven, the Malk Primogen decides to swing by Dallas's Haven and...maybe, possibly, just perhaps, do something. She could grab something for her and the others to remember him by.
But she's a bit too late. Sheriff Velma's cleanup/coverup crew were there first, and they scrubbed the destroyed Fledgling's humble abode from top to bottom.
Nothing was left behind. Every trace of the slain Malkavian's existence has been thoroughly and completely erased. It's like he's never even existed.
The taxi driver looks around and inquires, "You knew someone from this dump, lady?"
Clarice's jaw is slack, and her eyes are wide. She's not really aware of the fact that she's just staring out the window. She merely replies, "Oh. Yes. A friend of mine."
"Oh. What happened to 'em?"
"It...doesn't matter now, driver. Let's just...go."
He starts up his taxi, "Sure thing. As long as you're paying."
"Of course, of course."
On the way back home, Clarice spots Markham Reed, the Baali. He's walking out of a men's clothing store, holding a bag and wearing a cold look on his face.
(After what happened to his clothes, he needs new ones. Diego suggested this place because they have stuff in his size).
Clarice spots him and feels a nagging voice in her head. She tells the driver to stop, and he slams the brakes, causing the tires to squeal. The driver grunts and complains about getting a fine for this.
Clarice ignores him and gets out of the car, "Markham! Hello!"
Markham doesn't bother looking at her.
The nagging voice in the Lunatic's head impels her to...give him her home address. A preternatural instinct within her demands that she be nice to Markham and invite him over to her Haven. So, she does.
Markham holds his shopping in 1 hand and his Motorola flip phone in the other. He's about to call Diego to come and pick him up when Clarice calls out to him.
He raises an eyebrow and looks at the Malkavian, "Huh, what? Oh, it's you. I...um...Clara, right?"
The Mocker clicks her tongue, "It's Clarice, dear. Clarice. What are you doing here?"
The Baali holds up his bag and dryly responds, "Buying clothes. Do you...need something from me?"
Clarice reaches into her purse and produces a small slip of paper with some cursive writing on it. She shows it to him, "Here's my address. Come by tomorrow night- alone. I feel that we have much to discuss. How about 7:30 PM sharp?"
The Baali takes the slip of paper and glances at the address. He frowns, "Why? What could we possibly have to talk about?"
Clarice faintly chuckles, "I don't quite have an answer at the moment, dear. But I do believe that there's a purpose for all of this. A purpose that will become clear to us both in due time. Do try and be on time, darling."
Markham shrugs and looks at her with a degree of suspicion, "Uh-huh. Well, have a good night. I've got somewhere else to be right now."
She gives him a friendly pat on the shoulder, "I believe, strongly, that we can help each other out. All you have to do is...ask, yes? I speak what I see, Markham."
"Hmm," Markham shoves the paper in his back pocket and presses his lips into a thin, semi-sincere smile, "We'll see about that."
He walks off. Clarice gets back in the taxi and says, "Please, take me back home. Thank you."
The driver grumbles, "Sure thing, lady. So, who's that guy? Your son or something?"
Clarice shakes her head and smiles wryly, "I'm not THAT old, darling. No, he's...someone. Someone interesting, at least."
"Interesting? Hm. You look like a woman who has all the luck in the world."
With disappointment lacing her tone, Clarice responds, "Well, I don't know about that. I was a teacher at a public school, you see..."
Markham walks along on the footpath and checks his phone again. He still has some time to kill, and he has a feeling that Diego won't come pick him up immediately.
The Baali looks around the city streets, and his eyes land on a rundown diner. There's a familiar van parked out front, and a signboard on the front window is scratched beyond recognition.
He enters the place, sits down at a booth, and places his bag of new clothes on the empty seat beside him. A waitress comes by, and he orders a glass of water.
A few minutes later, the waitress brings him his water. She smiles at him and offers him a menu card. He blandly thanks her and tells her that he'll need some time to decide.
"Take your time, hon. Don't hurry."
She goes off to help a couple of people and leaves Markham to his thoughts.
He simply stares at the glass of water, having no intention of drinking it. His Hunger, for tonight at least, has already been sated. He idly looks through the menu card and lazily tosses it aside after a while.
The Baali has a feeling that he's being watched. His eyes dart around the restaurant, and he spots a familiar face sitting at the table near the corner.
Diana Moskowitz, the professional cleaner, is huddled up in a darker corner of this dingy eatery. She's clutching a hot cup of coffee with both of her sore hands and dreamily staring into space.
A small frown is plastered on her (very) tired face. Her eyes look hollow. Dark, heavy bags are under her eyes, and her shoulders are slumped.
Markham decides to go over and have a word with her.
"Hey."
Diana almost jumps out of her seat. She looks at him, and her eyes are wide. Her jaw is slack, and she's barely breathing.
She tries to make an excuse, but Markham calms her down, "Hey, hey. Sorry. I didn't mean to startle you. How are you doing?"
Diana shakily replies, "Not good. Not good at all."
Markham slides into the booth opposite her and takes a look around. Nobody is really paying attention to them.
He turns his attention back to her, "What's wrong? Has something happened? Is it your work?"
"Well, I--" she stops and thinks, "--a lot happened, and then something else happened."
The Baali leans forward and clasps his cold hands together, "Go on. I'm listening."
Diana's eyes dart around. She nods over to Markham's shopping and changes the subject, "Doing some summer shopping, huh?"
Markham plainly nods, "Something like that, yeah. What happened to you?"
The mortal woman lets out a long, exasperated sigh, "I was...cleaning up this entire office space all by myself, and I--I was tired. I asked if I could take a quick toilet break." She stops for a light sip of her piping-hot brew.
"Go on."
"They told me to keep working. I told 'em I'd be under a minute, but they told me to get back to work. So, I held it in. It got so--so bad, I felt like my bladder was gonna explode. I didn't want to ruin the place, so I just--threw my stuff aside and marched to the bathroom."
Diana looks down at the table and tears begin to well up in her eyes, "They...they saw me. The bathroom was occupied, and the other one was out of order. I--oh god...I..." she trails off and avoids eye contact.
"Oh. I'm so sorry."
Diana almost screams out, "I couldn't help it! It was an emergency! I wasn't thinking clearly! There were no other bathrooms nearby and--and something came over me and I just--just--"
Markham places his icy hand on Diana's shoulder and comforts her, "It's OK. It's OK. It's not your fault."
Diana bitterly scoffs, "I peed myself, Markham. A grown woman peeing herself in--in front of other grown people! How is that not my fucking fault?!" her voice jumps up a few octaves.
Markham's eyes are drawn to some other customers shooting looks at the duo. He looks back at Diana and lowers his voice, "It wasn't your fault, OK? Look at me. Listen to me."
Diana sniffs and wipes some tears away with the back of her sleeve. She tries to hold it together, "I tried to clean it up. I did. I really did, but--"
Markham squeezes her shoulder, "Shhh. It's over now. It was an accident. Accidents happen."
Diana sniffles and nods her head, "Thank you. It was embarrassing, and my boss expects me to--to pay for the mess. I could've lost my job! But--but I think Mike's not gonna fire me. Y--Yet."
Her lips shake when she continues, "I was working so hard. So hard, so hard, so hard. I was on my fucking knees, scrubbing grime and dried stuff off the walls and floors, and my boss called me. He--he yelled at me for making a mess."
The Baali's eyebrows shoot up, "What? Why?"
Diana clenches her jaw, "Hell if I know. Mike goddamn Winters has had it out for me ever since I started at Worbo's Professional Cleaning Services." She says the company's name in such a contemptuous and bitter manner.
She wipes away some tears and sniffs, "I...I think that I've been under too much pressure as of late. I'm so tired, Markham. I just wanna go home, but even that's getting more difficult by the day."
Markham gently wipes the tears away from her cheek with his fingers, "I understand. I'm sorry. What happened at home?"
Diana shyly smiles at him. Her cheeks redden a little and she answers, "Rent's due. Like, tomorrow. Literally tomorrow. If I don't cough it up, the landlord has pinky promised to evict me, heh."
She shakes her head, "I don't wanna lose my home now. I don't know what I'd do then. Really, I--I don't."
The Baali shakes his head, "That's a shitty situation. Listen..." he reaches into his wallet and offers the mortal some cash, but she turns him down.
"No, no. I couldn't possibly...no."
"Just take it."
Diana looks at him and lightly sniffs, "I...thank you. But no. It's...I just can't a--accept this. I did something recently."
Markham sighs softly and puts the cash back into his wallet. He gestures for her to go on, "Yeah?"
Diana shifts in her seat, "I put you down as my emergency contact. I uh...uh...hope you don't mind that I did that. It's just that I...don't have a family anymore and there's nobody else, and--and--"
Markham slowly nods, "I see. Sure, but I don't know how long I'm gonna be in this city, Diana."
Diana vaguely says, "I know. I don't plan on sticking around for too long, either."
"Hm? What?"
Diana waves her hand lazily, "Tch. Forget I said it. I'm glad to have seen you again, after all these years. You were so nice to me back then."
The Baali shrugs, "Yeah, sure. Are you going somewhere?"
The mortal lady shrugs and steers the topic of conversation away from herself, "So, how's everything been for you? It's been a while since we last met. What have you been up to?"
There's a certain emptiness in her eyes. Her facial expression is blank, and she seems as though she is talking to a stranger rather than an old friend.
Markham sits back. He's a little miffed by the fact that she's trying to avoid the subject. He takes a moment to collect his thoughts and answers, "Ah, not much. My...err...investigation is ongoing and that's just about it, really."
Even Diana's chuckle is devoid of any life and substance. Her shoulders are slumped, and her head is hanging low. She looks down at her coffee cup and idly stirs it with a big spoon, "Mm-hmm. Well, that's...cool, I guess."
She keeps staring, emptily, into her coffee when she says, "They laughed at me, Markham. I told 'em that it was an accident. A mistake. But...but I'm not sure, you know?"
The Baali slowly nods. He looks at her with sympathy but is unsure of what he can say or do to make her feel better.
Diana doesn't wait for a response from him, "I feel like shit, Markham. I don't wanna do this job anymore, but I don't really have much of a choice, do I?"
Markham slowly asks, "You could always try applying with another cleaning services company, right?" he makes sure not to step on any eggshells or say something that might send her deeper into despair.
(As it is, she's in a pretty dark and low place right now.)
Diana halfheartedly snorts, "Yeah, but...where? Who? What? How? When? I never...I never tried anything else because there is nothing else in this godforsaken hellhole of a fucking city."
Her tone is flat. Her voice is devoid of any life or emotion.
Markham doesn't know how to respond to her, so he doesn't. He simply nods.
The mortal woman takes a sip of her coffee and exhales softly, "The work sucks and our 'innovative' and 'entrepreneurial' boss decides that 'teams' of 1 are a great goddamn way of saving money. I hate that creep so much."
Markham queries, "How bad is he?"
Diana snarls, "Bad enough that I've had thoughts about killing him in all sorts of creative and--and disturbing ways. I--I just can't believe that he can afford imported pets, but he can't even pay his goddamn employees properly!"
Markham ponders, "What if you quit your job? And you somehow managed to get a new one. Maybe one that's better?"
Diana scoffs, "Haven't you been listening? I was lucky to even get this shitty job in the first place."
Her eyes begin to well up with tears. She covers her face with her hands and sobs into her palms, "I--I just can't take it anymore!"
The other customers look at her before turning away, going back to their food or their own problems.
Diana's tears run down her face and she sniffles loudly. She takes a deep breath and shakily lets it out, "I...I'm scared, Markham. So goddamn fucking scared. I--I don't have much left, and my landlord is getting pushier by the second. I'm so tired."
Her eyes dart around and she gets up, "I should go. I should just go home--"
Markham puts his cold hand on Diana's wrist and looks into her eyes, "Diana. I can help you."
The mortal winces and yanks her hand away from his cold grip. She stares at him, and the tears stream down her face. She looks at the clock near the exit, "I...I really have to go."
He stands up and tells her, "I'm serious. I can give you a little cash to cover your rent, or--or at least find a room to stay in till things start to look up for you."
Diana scoffs, "Things don't get better in this madhouse, Markham. They just...don't. You wouldn't understand."
"Diana, wait, I--"
She halfheartedly tells him, "Thank you for listening. I shouldn't have done that to you, y'know, dumping all my problems on you like that, but you're a friend, and I really appreciate it, Markham. I'm sorry, but I really have to go now. I'm so...tired."
"Diana, I can help you!"
She doesn't stop and walks out of the diner. She quickly gets in her van, starts it up, and pushes off before the Baali can catch up with her.
He runs outside, and she's gone. Markham returns to his booth and sighs. His fingers tap on the table, and his lips curl into a frustrated grimace.
Mr. Reed grabs his stuff, leaves the water where it is, and heads down the sidewalk. He walks along the cracked footpath, his shopping bag in 1 hand and his phone in the other.
The Baali constantly looks over his shoulder to make sure that nobody's tailing him. He's fairly that Mr. Strickland's people are still on to him, now more so than ever.
Markham sighs and dials Diego on his phone.
After a few rings, The Gangrel picks up, "Yo, d-man! What's up? How's your shopping trip? Find something your size, eh? That place usually has it all, haha!"
The Baali swiftly replies, "I'm fine, but I need you to pick me up."
"Sure thing, hermano. Wait for me by the same place that I dropped you off at earlier in the evening. Traffic's heavy 'round here, y'know how it is. Just wait or do some more shopping if you wanna, OK?"
"Thanks, see you soon."
Markham hangs up and idly loiters around this rather tight street. It's mostly covered with mid-range shops, hash-houses, and seedy bars. The sidewalks are also quite crowded.
Most of the pedestrians are fairly average-looking middle-aged folks or youngish student types. They walk around the city and fill the streets with the sound of chattering voices, raucous laughter, and clomping footsteps.
The air around here is heavy and thick with the smell of car exhaust, tar, and the scent of some nearby construction work. It's a fairly dingy part of the city, that's for certain.
He stands in the crowd, looks over his shoulder and watches his back, as he waits for his Feral buddy to come and pick him up.
Markham's eyes are fixed on a street corner, and he begins to get the feeling that something isn't quite right. The hairs on his undead neck stand up. He senses some sort of unease creeping up on him.
After a short moment, he manages to place where he feels this "unease" is coming from. It's coming from a very quiet, unassuming spot near a dark corner.
The vampire can feel a pair eyes, malicious and hateful, burning into his back.
Markham can sense a...a presence behind him. His bestial instincts pick up on this very easily. He's not sure if the people around him can feel it or if he's just being way too jumpy.
To be safe, he walks a few paces forward and activates his Obfuscate Discipline. He hopes that this'll allow him to shake off anyone who might be trailing him.
But his instincts remain sharp and his Beast remains on-edge. The presence of a threat is still there. The Baali subtly surveys his surroundings with a carefully crafted mask of cool indifference.
His body shimmers under the flickering lights of the streetlamps and he shuffles along the sidewalk, a few paces ahead from the larger crowds.
The presence grows stronger, and the Demon can tell that it's getting closer, not easily giving up as he had hoped it would.
Mr. Reed rounds a corner and hits a dead-end alleyway. The presence grows even more stronger now. Markham channels even more of his Vitae into his Obfuscate and completely disappears in the blink of an eye.
There's still a cold and tense feeling in the pit of his undead stomach, and he keeps a careful watch on his back. The presence looms behind him, and Markham turns around and sees a broad figure blocking his way.
A man who looks to be in his 40s sharply curses under his breath, "Dammit! Lost him again! The boss is not gonna be happy about this! Hrrr!"
He's talking to his unseen associate, a man who is in his mid-30s, and who is a few meters away. The 40-something man then looks around and gives his buddy an order, "Find him! GO!"
The 40-something pulls out his cheap flip phone and dials a number. He waits for whoever's on the other end to pick up.
He doesn't wait long and says, "It's me, s--sir. We've lost the mark. Yes, sir. Again. I am truly sorry, sir. It's like he--he was here 1 moment and then poof, gone! No trace, nothing. You know that we're working under a lot of pressure here."
The 40-something man bows his head, "I understand, sir. Yes, returning now. Thank you, sir. OK. Goodnight." He hangs up and places his phone in his pocket.
Markham can't stay Obfuscated in this tight corner forever, but he holds on until the assassin grumbles and reluctantly stomps away. The Baali lets out a long, shaky sigh and slowly rematerializes.
Diego eventually swings by to pick up his Baali buddy. They drive back to the former's Haven. Markham is oddly silent throughout the entire trip, and Diego can sense that something's wrong.
He looks over at Markham and inquires, "You OK, homes?"
"Yes. I'm fine, Diego. I'm fine."
Markham is still thinking about Diana. She looked so...lost and broken. The hopelessness was practically written all over her face. A part of him fears the worst, and that part might just turn out to be right.
Still, another part of him fights those extremely dark and worrisome thoughts away, telling him that Diana Moskowitz is fine. She's gonna be fine, but Markham is not wholly convinced by this.
Not by a long shot.
Much later...
It's now 11:57 PM. Prince Antonio Black is standing on the roof of a large corporate building near Flimont City's financial district. There is a full moon tonight, and the cloudless skies are speckled with a few stars.
The air is warm but not horribly so. He takes a moment to just admire the sight below him.
The city beneath the Ventrue Prince is a sea of blinking lights. The streets are a swarm of tiny cars and tinier people, their every movement as easy to track as ants in a colony that is chaotic and out of control.
The air around here smells of smog and exhaust. The sky above is a mixture of dark blue, black, and a few thin, pale patches of gray.
The roof is sparse. There are some satellite dishes, exposed wires, and a few pots filled with dirt and plants.
The Prince pulls out a satellite phone and extends its antenna. He attaches some sort of voice disruptor device to the bottom.
He presses a few buttons, dials a number, and places the device over his ear. He waits patiently for the other person to pick up on their end.
Special Agent Cuomo (?) answers. He sounds tired and irritated, "Yes? Who is it?"
The Prince's voice is distorted, "It's me. Did you act on the information that I provided you? I'm not seeing any major changes in the situation, so far."
Special Agent Cuomo's tired voice is dry, "Yes. We're making good progress. We got 1--"
Prince Antonio growls, "1?! Is that it?!"
"Well, we were expecting more, but 1 is all we got. We took care of him, Mr. X. It was messy, but we got the job done. Now, we wait for his buddies to slip up when they come looking for him."
"You fuckin' joker! 1 is all you got? Did you kill that asshole?! WHERE is he?! Did you at least get anything out of him?!"
"Easy, now. Easy. Truth is, we went in there expecting more than 1, but what we got should suffice. There was no point interrogating a bum like him. He's dead, that's 1 less bloodsucker to worry about."
"That's not good enough! I don't feed you idiots info for jack squat!"
Special Agent Cuomo sighs and scratches his forehead with his thumb, "Mr. X, please, calm down. We know how valuable your intel has been to us over the years. The SAD owes you a lot, but we need time. It's been a while since I've personally been out on the field again."
The Blue Blood Prince seethes, "It better be soon! I want a nice, clean, and quiet town. I don't need a repeat of 1995 again, you hear me?!"
Special Agent Cuomo shakes his head, "1995 was a tactical mistake. We trusted...unpredictable assets and got outmaneuvered by a bigger, uglier players. That's never gonna happen again."
The Ventrue Prince snarls, "Just get the fucking job done."
"Weren't you the one who gave us that intel all the way back in 1995, Mr. X?"
What?!
Prince Antonio nods in the affirmative, "Yeah, and I expected you to get rid of those fucking Mexicans back then. I want 'em gone and that means NOT making the same mistake as 1995 again! I don't wanna hear any more excuses!"
Special Agent Cuomo frowns, "With all due respect, don't tell me how to do my job, OK? You think you know blank bodies, think again. Look, think of this morning's raid as a test run, alright?"
The Blue Blood Prince grimaces, "This is so goddamn infuriating! I risk my ass feeding the fuckin' FBI this info and all I get for it is 1 dead dumbass and not a single thing of worth?! How much do I have to do for you assholes to get the job done right?!"
The Special Agent groans, "Look, we're dealing with some very nasty customers here, OK? Besides, our operations are subject to a hell of a lot more scrutiny compared to back in the day. It's a new goddamn world out there!"
Prince Antonio claps back, "I know what year it is. Don't patronize me."
Special Agent Cuomo shrugs, "Alright, alright, alright. Fine. Here's what we're doing. You keep providing us with the intel and we'll provide you the results. Sound good?"
"Hmph. I want results, not a result. I wanna see those fucking Mexicans get destroyed!"
"I said that we're working on it."
The Ventrue Prince exhales softly and angrily growls, "This is a shit show. An absolute shit show! You still haven't gotten the job done...even after all this time, even after I DRIP FED you the info all those goddamn years back!"
Special Agent Harold Cuomo takes on a sterner tone, "Mr. X, I'm going to have to calmly ask you to...Dial. It. Down. A. Notch. The SAD is working round the fucking clock here. I'm up against the wall here, OK? I don't have time for your whining and I sure as hell don't have time for your late-night phone calls!"
Prince Antonio sighs softly, "Just get it done. I've already given you and your people everything I know. I'm tired of going back and forth with you fuckin' people. I thought you were the best in the business, but I was wrong, huh?"
He abruptly hangs up, and Special Agent Harold Cuomo massages his temples.
The Blue Blood Prince places the phone in his suit pocket and massages his forehead with his hand.
Wow.
So, Prince Antonio is responsible for bringing the Second Inquisition down on the Gangrel back in 1995, huh? What a walloper.
Back then, the SI used white supremacists to hit the Gangrel in this Domain. Those racist thugs were given wooden stakes, training, funds, and top-notch gear.
They were wound up and let loose on the Ferals. Thankfully, the 5th Street Cholos managed to repel the attacks. But...they lost a lot of good people along the way.
The Gangrel never did get to the bottom of why they were attacked and who exactly armed those crazies.
And now, a few years later, the same shit is happening again.
The Second Inquisition is back and this time, they're really "out for blood".
It was Prince Antonio who used the forces of the SI against his political enemies. He wanted to get rid of the Gangrel in this city so he could swoop in and acquire their land and gentrify it, with himself standing to handsomely profit from such grim endeavors.
But there just 1 issue with that plan: the Gangrel were not simply going to roll over and get destroyed. They are, after all, The Clan of the Beast.
They ferociously fought against those thugs, tooth, nail, fang, and claw.
Till now, the events of 1995 remain a mystery to the other Kindred. Prince Antonio initially did not order any kind of investigation into the matter, but pressure from the Gangrel Primogen- Pedro- soon forced his hand.
Using the very generically laughable name of Mr. X, the Ventrue Prince feeds intelligence to the forces of the Second Inquisition. It's an unoriginal move, really.
Kindred in other Domains are known to do shit like that- feed detailed info on political rivals or other inconveniences to those capable of exterminating them with relative ease.
In the case of failure, the fingers point to everywhere (and everyone) else but the cause. Nobody in their right mind would use the Second freakin' Inquisition to destroy fellow Kindred, right?
Yeah, well...eh.
Prince Antonio shrugged and moved on while Pedro begrudgingly accepted the outcome of the "investigation". Unbeknownst to the Outlander, round 2 has officially started.
Till now, only Prince Antonio knows the truth of what happened in 1995 and who truly bears responsibility, and that truth is coming for everyone in the city, sooner or later.
Now, one hopes (in great earnest) that Dr. Collins and Roxanne can overthrow this Ventrue mafioso maniac and (at the very least) hold him accountable for his treachery against Kindred Society.
(Even Sheriff Velma DuPont is unaware of the fact that she's being played by her dear Prince- she's never been the type to question those above her, especially when they are members of her Clan.)
He did all of this for...land. He's so hellbent on scooping it all up, gentrifying it to the max, and sitting back and reaping the bountiful $$$ harvest. He's using his power and influence to reshape the face of Flimont City, all in the name of himself and his Clan.
(Mainly himself).
Then again, what he's doing is the kind of thing that's almost...encouraged (one might say incentivized) around these parts. Flimont City is a city of unbridled greed. Dog-eat-dog, law of the jungle, all that individualistic gung-ho getting-to-the-top-no-matter-what shit.
This kind of thing happens more often than not in this Midwestern metropolis, and Prince Antonio Black is taking advantage of the whole shebang and simply emulating what he sees around him.
(Hell, he's soon a lot of nasty shit over the past 100 years on the throne).
Other busters in this joint do it through pen strokes, lawsuits, political pull, or a toxic combination of all 3. All this secrecy. All this planning. All this manipulation.
Prince Antonio Black has done a lot of terrible things in the past, and it's about time that someone in this city holds him accountable. His 100-year reign has to come to an end.
Things need to change around here, that much is certain. This corruption, extortion, and greed must be dealt with sooner rather than later.
Of course, by the time all is said and done, will the change that is brought about be meaningful or a mere reset of the status quo?
Will the Prince and his cronies be successful or will they be exposed?
Will the other Clans in this Domain come to the side of Roxanne and Dr. Collins or will they all fall under the weight of Prince Antonio Black's machinations?
Only time will tell, and you best be prepared for what it has to say!
For now, the Prince of this city exhales sharply and leaves this building. He puts on a black fedora and calmly saunters off, none the wiser about the plot that Roxy and the good doctor are cooking up against him.
He took a good and long look at the city from this rooftop and smiled to himself, satisfied with how far he has come in all these long, long years.
"Here's to another 100 years," Prince Antonio tells himself in a fit of purely grandiose delusion and narcissism. He leaves and returns to his majestic Haven. His grin is a broad, smug thing. He looks forward to the future.
And the future, well, seems to have some surprises in store.
For all.
Clarice is back in her Haven. Sunrise is moments away now. Arnold says, "Good morning" to his Domitor, because "Goodnight" would just be silly, wouldn't it?
Clarice smiles at him, "And a good morning to you."
She told her Ghoul that Dallas went somewhere, and that she has no idea when (or if) the Fledgling will be back. She undoubtedly has her own reasons for withholding the unpleasant truth.
Arnold is a bit of a fragile guy, who needs care and delicacy. He's different. So, Clarice decided to spare him the awful news, for the time being, at least.
As the Malkavian Primogen is being dragged into the pincers of the day-sleep, she decides to wander the infinite breadth, length, width, and height of the Malkavian Madness Network in search of answers and info.
Answers and info pertaining to this God-Machine that Dallas was yelling about. Clarice doesn't know exactly what she's looking for, but she has a few hunches.
She wants to know more about the God-Machine, and what better place than the Cobweb?
The mind of a Malk never "sleeps". Clarice will "look" into the God-Machine, navigating through the endless maze-like structures of the Weavery.
She'll explore the vast expanses of the Tapestry, hoping to stumble across some clues or maybe even a few useful facts and figures.
As she's being lulled in, a sad and distant voice interrogates her specifically, "Why, Clarice? Why me?"
It's Dallas and he sounds so...broken and lost. His voice is filled with despair and despair alone.
She tries to answer him, but he simply goes on and on, a long-winded speech about his childhood, his parents, his hopes, fears, dreams, and his school.
"There was so much to look forward to!!!" Dallas yells out into the expansive void, his voice merely 1 amongst an infinite sea of howls, cries, shouts, and screams.
Clarice listens. She empathetically listens, and she tries to respond to him, but her words are devoured by the void. They are muffled by the other loud noises that permeate this space.
The Malkavian Primogen feels something deep inside her, a vague tugging feeling.
Dallas, despite being destroyed, still desperately calls out to her with all of his might. His pleas echo through the infinite void of the Malkavian Collective and are devoured by the silence and the emptiness.
Clarice cannot do anything to help him now. She wishes she had done more, but Sheriff Velma had that disturbing look in her dead eyes. Her gaze was a cold and heavy thing.
"Teacher! Please, please, don't leave me! She--she cut off my fucking head! MY HEAD! Teacher...AAAAAAAH!" Dallas screams and his cries are swallowed up by the void.
So, Clarice pushes through and reaches out. Her mental feelers speedily branch out in every direction imaginable. She wants to comfort Dallas, to tell him that everything will be alright and that he can still find happiness...even in here.
She also focuses a part of her mind on learning more about this God-Machine entity. The sun is now up, and the Kindred are essentially "dead" to the world around them.
Their bodies are as still as the grave, but their minds might still active, still moving about to and fro.
Yet another day dawns on Flimont City, but not all will be well for everyone.