Chapter 34: American Lasombra
"If you want to know what god thinks of money, just look at the people he gives it to." -Dorothy Parker
The star of fire, heat, and brilliant light roars into view. The Lasombra Fledgling is now back in the familiarity of his city, his old "stomping grounds". He's home, and he feels a strange sense of...relief? Excitement? Disgust?
A strange slurry of the above? It's difficult to pinpoint what it is, exactly. But as he is taken in by the day-sleep, he does not ponder about the exact nature of the feeling. He doesn't really care about it, either.
All he knows is that there's shit to be done. And he's not gonna waste any more time in getting it done. As a matter of fact, he's already prepared for this. And he's going to follow through.
The other Kindred in this Domain also fall to the inevitable pull of the day-long slumber. Many of them are not privileged enough to have the same luxuries and amenities of the returned Lasombra Fledgling.
Their cold bodies are as still as statues found in museums. Chests neither rise nor fall. Eyes are shut tight. The skin is frigid to the touch and tinged with a slight sickly hue that comes with being someone who is (technically) clinically dead.
That's likely why they call it "Unlife".
As long as the sun reigns supreme, the Unliving stay day-sleeping.
Let's check in with Gordon "The Pym Reaper" Pym...
The mortal attorney/fixer fella hasn't had much sleep last night. Putting up with the incessant bullshit whims and fancies of rich people day in and day out does that to a motherfucker.
In fact, he hasn't really had much sleep for a while now. The only relief he can get is when he pops a pill...or 3. For now, Mr. Pym shambles out of bed, groans when he sees the time, and starts getting ready for his work for the day ahead.
His decidedly middle-aged, somewhat wrinkly, and naked body sinks into the warm bathwater. He lets out a content sigh and allows himself to soak in the blissful warmth for a bit.
But only for a bit. Busters like him are always expected to be on their A-game. His is a kind of "job" in need of a whole lotta energy and even more dedication.
And a colossal megaton of discretion. Blud has seen (and done) a lot. From being the protégé of the skeevy, skeezy Roy Cohn to striking out on his own following the man's death of AIDS-related complications, he's built quite the rep as a fixer.
Gordon concedes that Flimont City has been kind to him- the perfect cesspool to get decently rich from. And he has. Oh, he fucking has. Even the most prominent figures here have found themselves indebted to him.
Hell, this week, he's scheduled to go on a fancy cruise with the daughter-in-law of the State Governor.
Of course, Gordo tremendously appreciates the sentiment. Even though he usually holds his nose when voting Republican, he switches between the oligarchic duopoly as often as he switches his underwear. This year, he plans on voting Democrat.
The water has grown cold, and his fingertips are all wrinkled up. Mr. Pym gets out of the tub, dries himself, and gets himself all ready for the bright day ahead.
It's a simple dark gray suit with a silky green cravat to top it off. He's a classy bastard, f'sure! While adjusting his cravat, he looks outside his window and sees a dark sedan starting up and zooming down the street.
He narrows his eyes, "Huh. Odd."
But as he's walking out of his bedroom, he feels a chill running down his spine. He stops for a good moment and looks over his shoulder. But there is nothing there. The room is empty.
Gordon mutters under his breath, "What the fuck? I--I'm getting jumpy. God."
He takes his breakfast at a more upscale coffeeshop. For today, they've got a special on bagels (hmm, yummy!). The Pym Reaper orders 2 blueberry bagels and 1 plain bagel. And a large cup of coffee with extra cream and even more sugar.
It's not gonna be enough to satisfy him, but it'll do for now.
As he's quietly eating his meal in the corner of this bright, well-lit, and sleek establishment, he sees a small child (about 5 years of age) jumping up and down and making a fuss at 1 of the nearby tables.
The slightly toothless and overactive kid is obviously being taken care of by her father who tries to calm her down while taking a call on his bulky cellular phone.
Gordon watches the flustered man as he picks up the wailing child, holds her close, and walks outside. She eventually settles down and falls asleep on his broad shoulders.
The man wipes a layer of sweat with the sleeve of his suit and heads back inside to finish his own meal. The kid is still asleep on his shoulder. The sight of the working father fills Gordon with some sort of...guilt.
Oh, yeah, he's been feeling that feeling quite a lot lately. Not too hard to see why!
The man in the suit rocks his sleeping child up and down. He balances his cellular phone between his neck and shoulder and continues to whisper-talk business with someone or the other. He looks so tired.
Gordon takes a large bite out of his plain bagel and keenly observes the situation. He cannot hear what the man is saying, but he can get a general gist of it from the tone of voice and whatnot.
Business is business, and the world turns on money. People gotta eat, after all. Survival's the game we all play, yada, yada, yada.
The little child's drooling mouth is open, and her chest rises and falls gently with each soft breath she takes. A slight twinge of sadness hits Mr. Pym.
The man's business suit is slightly stained with a bit of her drool. His yellow shirt has lost most of its luster and is now a faded, drab shade. His tie is also a little frayed and raggedy. His shoes are old and cracked.
Gordon huffs a sigh and looks away. He looks up at the top floor and sees a group of wide-eyed interns in slightly oversized suits talking to each other about something. They're giggling and chatting and taking pictures on their flip phones.
1 of them raises a paper cup and cheers with a "Hurray!"
Gordo mumbles to himself, "Tch. The novelty will wear off sooner than you expect, kid. Hmph."
Ever since last night, Gordon has had what one might be inclined to call a crisis of conscience. Yeah, unbelievable. He even considers helping out Sammie by paying some child support for little Ralf, who is after all, his biological son.
But this man has an image to uphold and a reputation to keep. Still, that nagging feeling nags away at the back of his mind. What if...what if he does a good deed? How will his clients react? Will they be offended?
Knowing them, they probably would be. They pay for a coldhearted, ruthless kind of discretion. If they hear that the man with the moniker of the Pym Reaper is paying child support to some random chick he knocked up a few years ago, well...it'll be real bad for bidness, to say the least.
Mr. Pym decides to finish up and get going. He wipes the crumbs off his clothes, dabs his mouth with the tissue paper, and tosses it atop the unfinished blueberry bagel. It's not that good anyway. And he's not really hungry.
Gordon walks out of the establishment and onto the street. He adjusts his cravat (his signature fashion accessory!) and takes a look at his watch. It's a simple analog thing with a brown strap and gold trimming.
It's pretty early, so he's got plenty of time to do whatever. That crisis of conscience still lingers. He decides to take a quick detour to a certain place.
Why is he feeling like this all of a sudden?
That's partly because he's quite shaken up about the sweetheart deal that Luciano Junior managed to score with the Feds. Of course, Gordon is not privy to the nitty-gritty of the whole deal, but he's smart enough to fill in the blanks.
Gordon does wonder whether Luciano threw him under the bus as well. Now, he's got reason to worry. What exactly did Luciano tell the Feds about his attorney's involvement in their schemes?
Chances are, he might get indicted for something or the other.
As such, Gordo will have to double down on his efforts to grease the necessary palms and pull a few strings to perhaps lessen the damage.
Or...he can get ahead of the proverbial curve and cut himself a deal with the relevant parties. That proposition has been front-and-center of his mind for a while now.
He gives it a lot of thought. While in bumper-to-bumper traffic, Gordon mulls over the pros and cons of this hypothetical deal which may or may not actually come to fruition.
Gordon groans softly, "I'll have to turn myself in. Give 'em everything I have. Shit, am I...am I...actually considering this? What would Roy Cohn do in my shoes, hmm?"
That slimy sack of shit would probably take the first chance he got to roll on every motherfucker he could think of. Hell, he'd probably throw his own bubbe under the bus if he thought it would help him somehow.
The agonizing traffic (under the harsh summer heat) doesn't let up. Gordon growls and murmurs, "Get a fucking move on already..."
The streets are clogged up with vehicles of all kinds. Some are in private cars with tinted windows. Some are in aging public transportation. Others are on foot. A few scooters are dotted here and there.
The traffic gives Gordon the time to ponder over his current predicament, "If I...shit...if I turn myself in, I can argue for a reduced sentence or something. Or a lighter penalty. Hell, I can even get a deal like Luciano!"
He shakes his head and goes on, "Goddammit. I don't know how the fuck he did it, but he did it."
While they last spoke, Luciano Junior went and blurted out the existence of vampires to his fixer. Gordo was, quite understandably, taken aback by this revelation. But the evidence presented to him was more than sufficient to convince him otherwise.
"Hmph. So, that Mauve is some kind of a vampire, huh? Tch. Where does Luciano even find these fucking people?"
Some hours later...
Gordon finds himself in front of a rather stately building. High columns, elegant pillars, and wide arches decorate the edifice. There's some Latin text of some sort inscribed into the walls, and the overall architecture screams stately old-world elegance.
The US Attorney's office is situated within the elaborate walls of this building. Mr. Pym walks in through the big, wide doors and makes his way to the counter where an official-looking man wearing glasses is seated behind the desk.
The man looks up from his work, adjusts his glasses, and says in a flat monotone voice, "Good afternoon, sir. How may I help you?"
Gordon curtly asks, "Is Attorney Jackson in? I need to speak with him immediately. It's...it's...urgent."
The man squints at his computer and shakes his head, "Unfortunately, he is currently busy and not taking any visitors for a couple of hours."
Mr. Pym grunts, "What do you mean he's not taking any visitors today?"
The man's back straightens, "It means what it means, sir. If you would kindly leave your contact information, I can arrange a meeting with the Attorney at the soonest."
Gordon rolls his eyes and snaps, "I don't have time for this. Is Attorney Jackson in or not. This is--this is a bit urgent." The desperation in his voice is more than palpable.
The bespectacled man takes a deep breath and says, "Please, sir. I'm going to tell you again: he is busy and will not be able to take any visitors. You can leave your relevant contact info with me, and I'll have someone get back to you about it. How does that sound?"
Gordon groans and dismissively waves his hand, "Forget it, this is a waste of time."
The man's gray eyes dart around and he sternly warns, "Don't make me call security, sir. Have a good day."
And with that, Gordon gets the hell outta this place. His hands shake as he fishes for the keys to his car. He's sweating bullets. His breaths are shallow and quick.
Even his heartbeat is a tad erratic and irregular. Gordon gets into the car, shuts the door behind him, and leans back into his seat. He cranks the aircon to the max and exhales a breath that he didn't realize he was holding.
He takes a moment to catch his breath and cool down before dozing off in his car. When he comes around, he sees a concerned security guard tapping a baton on the window. Gordon wakes up, rolls down the window, and rubs his eyes.
The security guard asks, "Uhm...are you alright in there, buddy?"
Gordon's baggy, bloodshot eyes look at the guard with a dull stare. He blinks twice, yawns, and mumbles, "Yeah...yeah. What...what time is it?"
"Sun came down an hour ago. Are you sure you're doing OK? Do you need me to call somebody??"
"No! No. Don't do that. I--do you know if Attorney Jackson is in now?"
"I think so, sir. I can check if you'd like."
Gordon lazily pulls out a dollar from his pocket and presses it into the guard's hand. He asks, "Could you do that for me?"
The security guard looks at the dollar in his hand and stuffs it into his pocket. He firmly nods, "Consider it done."
After approximately 15 minutes, the guard comes back. He twirls his baton as he walks back to the car. He smiles at Gordon, nods, and says, "He'' be here in another hour or 2, sir."
Gordon's cheeks puff out as he sighs, "Thank you. Is it OK if I--I leave my car parked right over here?"
The guard shrugs, "It's a free country."
"Hmm. It sure is."
While the guard whistles a tune and strides about the premises, Gordon looks up at the darkening evening sky. A few stars can be seen, but the view is blocked by all the smog and light pollution.
Gordon's stomach grumbles. He winces and gets out of his vehicle to do a bit of leg-stretching. For a man of his age, he struggles to get up to his feet. He's still woozy from waking up from such a deep nap.
He takes a short walk around the stately building and feels like a tiny ant in the presence of such grandiose architecture. The walls are smooth and cool to the touch, and there is a nice scent of something or the other in the air.
Gordon spots a small eatery of some kind. It's right opposite the government building, so it seems like a good enough place to eat. There are quite a lot of people eating here.
They mostly look to be the white-collar types, judging by their tucked-in shirts (of varying muted colors), loose ties, and slim-fitting pants. A few of them have jackets slung over their shoulders and some have of the ladies have their long hair undone.
As he gets closer to the eatery, Gordon can hear the cacophonous buzz of many conversations being conducted simultaneously. He ignores all of that and trudges straight for the counter.
He orders a cup of coffee and nothing else. From there, Gordo finds a dark corner of this place where he can be alone. The caffeine helps him perk up a bit, but he still feels...
Laden with guilt.
Mr. Pym doesn't really know why he's feeling this way. All he knows is that it has to do with the child support thing and Luciano Junior's deal. And the overall unpleasant nature of his "work".
The eatery in question is cozy. The low lighting gives off a sort of intimate, quasi-sensual vibe. The chairs and tables are packed closely together, and the tiled floor is well-mopped.
There's a faint smell of fried food and exotic spices in the air. Gordon's nose wrinkles when he catches a whiff of it. His eyes dart about, and he sees several patrons quietly enjoying their meal and conversing amongst themselves.
The paneled walls have pictures of famous rockstars hanging up on them. They're mostly sepia-toned and very grainy. Some are locally famous while others are famous worldwide.
Gordon takes another sip of his coffee and sighs, "Maybe...maybe I should have kept playing the guitar- good money in that. If I followed through with Casper and joined his band, I wouldn't find myself cleaning up after the rich and powerful..."
But Mr. Pym shakes his head and casts the what-could-have-beens aside and back into the dark recesses of his swirling mind. To him, it's useless to ponder about those kinds of things now.
He snaps his fingers and asks if the staff can get the speakers to play some ol' timey rock-and-roll classics. They gladly oblige, and the eatery is soon filled with the sounds of rockabilly and twangy guitars.
Gordon slowly taps his foot along to the beat. It's a familiar tune that he heard quite a lot back in his youth, which was quite a while ago!
"I'm getting old...but not old enough. Hmph." He grumbles some more and finishes his coffee. He spends an hour just sitting in his little dark corner, fingers steepled together, eyes glazed over, and thoughts racing.
Mr. Pym is snapped out of his trance when he sees a whole group of older-looking ladies walk into the eatery, giggling and laughing. They take a seat right next to his table, which makes him sit up straight in surprise.
He curtly waves at them and immediately departs. Not because he gets cooties or shit like that. No, he'd probably love to stay and chat, but he has something important to do.
Something that his conscience (or what remains of it) propels him to do.
Gordon leaves a couple of quarters as a tip and heads back to the parking lot where his car is parked. There's a slight chill in the breeze tonight. A welcome relief from the hot summer day.
Gordon checks his watch again. Once he gathers his stuff, he approaches the wider-than-life stairs with a certain kind of trepidation. The closer he gets, the more jittery and antsy he gets.
He tries to put on a confident face and strides up the steps with all the dignity and gravitas befitting a man of his status and profession. A few people recognize him and call his name out. Gordon responds with a curt wave and weak smile.
Mr. Pym reaches the top of the stairs and stops at the edge of the imposing marble archway. The big double doors are wide open, and the lobby is fairly empty. There are only a few guards about.
Just as Gordon is about to take a step in, he feels a heavy hand land on his shoulder. He turns around and finds himself looking at a man in a dark suit. A earpiece sticks out of the side of his head, and he's wearing dark sunglasses.
The man's voice carries with it an undeniable sense of intimidation, "Mr. Pym. There is somebody who wants to see you."
Gordon glowers at the man, "Whoever it is, tell them to wait. I'm busy here."
"Sir, he insists." The man professionally gestures to a black limo waiting nearby and adds, "It's in your best interests to come with me. Now."
Gordon growls under his breath but follows along anyway. He stops in his tracks and feels like he recognizes this limousine from somewhere. Something about it is quite...familiar.
Gordon's eyes narrow, "Wait."
The man with the earpiece puts his hand on Gordon's back and gives it the lightest of nudges, "Keep moving, Mr. Pym. You know the drill. Don't keep the boss waiting- he doesn't have much time."
Gordo looks around the premises, and there is nothing particularly out of the ordinary.
Then it hits him. He stops again and squints at the limo, "No...it can't be. I thought--"
He suddenly remembers where he's seen this vehicle before. Gordo gasps as the door to the limousine swings open and a rather tall man emerges.
Gordon's jaw hits the ground, and his eyes widen in shock.
The man speaks in a deep, slightly gruff, and imposing voice, "Gordon Pym. Long time, no see, huh?"
The Pym Reaper's face scrunches in disbelief as he mutters, "B--but...how? How???"
Gordon Pym gawks at the tall figure standing before him. He is in his 70s, has thinning silver hair, and a long face. His skin is deathly pale. His cheeks are hollow, and his dead eyes have a menacing glint to them.
Gordon gulps and stammers, "Luciano...you...you're--"
Luciano Donovan Senior smiles and proudly spreads his arms out, "I am very much alive, Gordon."
Gordon can't believe it. He stumbles upon his words, "But--but you were in Israel and--and you went missing and..."
The Lasombra Fledgling puffs his chest out and declares, "Indeed, indeed. I was. Get in and we'll talk all about it. You're going to want to hear this one. Trust me."
And so, the attorney climbs into the car after the vampire, and the door is shut behind him. Gordon loosens his cravat and gawks at the sight before him.
The interior of this limousine is quite different from what he had expected.
Luciano Senior chuckles, "I had some...modifications made. So, what exactly are you doing in a place like this, hmm?"
Gordon shakily exhales, "I--I'd ask you the same thing, Luciano. What happened to you?"
Luciano Senior raps his knuckles on the divider glass of the limousine and commands, "What the fuck are you waiting for?! Drive!"
The limo's engines rev up, and they get moving. The car pulls out of the parking lot and gets on the road.
The Lasombra Fledgling goes on, "Oh, nothing too serious. Just...just a happy and interesting little detour, that's all. I'll tell you all about it."
Gordon side-eyes the old man, "How'd you know where to find me, Luciano?"
Luciano Senior doesn't directly answer that, "I've always had my ways. So, how have things been in my absence? Has my idiot son been behaving himself?"
"He's--he's been doing quite the opposite, heh."
"Hmph. Typical. Boy always had a few screws loose, you know? Too much mother love does that to a man."
Gordon raises his chin, "I guess so. You said that you wanted to talk. About what?"
Luciano Senior chuckles faintly, "Ah, Gordon. Ever the man with a mission, huh? When I was in Israel, I thought about you quite a bit. I thought about the business, the clients, our business dealings, and...what would happen if something were to happen to me."
Gordon professionally answers, "Your son would be poised to take it all over. And your...other children would likely contest it in court and it would be nothing short of a m--"
The Lasombra dismissively waves his hand, "Tch. I know all of that, Gordon. No, I was thinking of...my legacy."
"Your legacy?"
The Donovan patriarch takes a deep and elaborate breath (not that he needs to, but it takes time to adjust), "You could even say that I've had an...epiphany of sorts."
"Oh?"
Luciano Senior nods, "Mm-hmm. Going to Israel was probably the best fucking decision I've ever made. That and not marrying any of the holes I screwed my seed into."
Gordon uneasily looks outside at the city going by and asks, "And where exactly are we headed?"
Luciano Senior smirks and lazily gestures, "Wherever we want. Time, you see, is something I have."
Gordon chuckles, "You're in your 70s, Luciano...I wouldn't be so sure about that." He then clears his throat and goes on, "So, what is this epiphany that you speak of?"
The Lasombra Fledgling steeples the tips of his long, bony fingers together and explains, "Well, while in Israel, I did quite a lot of...fun and interesting things."
When prompted, he goes on, "I shot some guns, signed a few missiles, saw some nice places to invest in, and even came across the local wildlife."
Gordon side-eyes the bloodsucker, "Local wildlife? Didn't take you much for an animal person, Luciano--"
"No, dumbass. Not THAT kind of wildlife. I'm talking about the so-called Palestinians. Fuckin' low-IQ rock-lobbing scumbags. Goddamn terrorists, even the kids. You don't understand the shit that Israel has to put up with unless you've been in the thick of it all."
Gordon's brow furrows, "Huh." He is acutely aware that his client has a...deeply yikes view of non-white people, women, queer folk, leftists, the poor, the unhoused, the disabled, immigrants, etc. All the inevitable end result of the accumulated social rot of decades past.
He clears his throat and steers the subject in another direction, "You look...well, Luciano. I was expecting a bit of a tan on you, but it looks like you've avoided the sun pretty well, heh."
Luciano Senior grins, "Ah, you know me. Avoiding the sun, huh? Yeah, you could say that I--I've been getting accustomed to that."
He looks at a random group of people and sneers, "Oh, marone. Don't even get me started on the girls in Israel...they know how to show a man like me a good time."
EW!
Gordon's eyebrows briefly go up, "That's...that's good to hear." He takes a deep breath and continues, "So, do you wanna talk more about your epiphany? To be honest, when I heard you went missing, I assumed the worst."
Luciano Senior leans in close and whispers, "Let's just say that things are not going to be the same around here. You could even say that I've...gotten a new lease on life, haha!"
Gordon asks, "Like a surgery or something?"
Luciano Senior chortles, "Oh, much better." He spots a few unhoused people pushing their stuff around in a shopping cart. His wrinkly face contorts into a foul grimace. He points at them and grumbles, "Ugh. Just look at those scum. A goddamn waste."
Gordon follows the vampire's line of sight and sees the homeless people. He shakes his head and says, "Yeah. Don't get me started. What else happened in Israel?"
"A lot. A fucking lot. Y'know, Gordon, unlike this country...the average Israeli and I do see eye-to-eye on many things. I was surprised, honestly. They're not a bunch of politically correct sissies afraid of doing what needs to be done to protect their way of life."
Gordon nods along. His eyes are fixated on a spot of nothing.
The Shadow then proceeds to rant, "Oh, yeah. I'm not kidding, you could just about walk up to any ordinary Israeli and it's like you're talking to an actual logical person for once. So refreshing! And it comes with the added bonus of being willing to put down those fucking terrorist scumbags."
Gordon dryly puts in, "Yeah. Israel's...neighbors are all...crazy. I can't blame Israelis for...being like that."
Luciano Senior snaps his fingers, "Exactly! I never did understand America's unique relationship with Israel. But after having gone there and seeing it for myself, I see why people love it."
"I bet."
Luciano Senior nods his head and adds, "Oh, and they got the best beaches ever. I even stopped by a Kibbutz, did some manual labor for shits and giggles, and even got to ride along in a fuckin' military jeep- armored, of course. Those rock-throwing animals were just...gawking at me like I was there to eat their pets or something. Haha!"
Gordon flatly laughs, "Wow. So, you've really gone all out, huh? Was it like a 'finding yourself' kinda thing?"
The Shadow thoughtfully nods, "In a way, it was, yeah. So, what the hell are you doing around these parts? I thought that you hated government buildings as much as I do?"
Gordo shrugs, "I...still do. I was just...looking into something." His face suddenly drops, and he looks away, "Something personal."
"Oh?"
Gordon sucks some air in through his teeth and explains, "I--I--I've been busy, Luciano. And your goddamn son has probably shaved 10 whole years from my life expectancy."
LDJ's father leans back, "Hm. That fucking idiot. What kind of a mess did he get himself into now, huh? Is that little runt expecting me to bail his sorry ass out of whatever crap he's gotten himself into?"
Gordon clears his throat and shakes his head, "Nope. It's way worse than that, actually."
"Shit. Well, go on, Gordon..."
Gordon starts from the top, "A few months back, your son got into business with a...woman--"
Luciano Senior lets out a mean, "Bah!" sound.
Gordo nods and proceeds, "Hm, yeah. My thoughts exactly. She was a homeless woman. I'll skip over the boring parts. This...woman had some kind of an...ability. To be honest, I dunno where or how your kid even finds these fucking kinds of characters."
"Did they get hitched? Is she pregnant?"
The Pym Reaper laughs softly, "Oh, haha! No. Thankfully. And no. Anyway, your kid put this woman up in 1 of the most expensive apartment complexes in town- the Prairie Ridge."
Luciano Senior sighs, "Marone. That fucking idiot. Why would that little shit do something so stupid?! That place is overpriced, even for fucking me!"
Gordon snickers, "Heh, yeah. Anyways, he put her up there as his so-called 'golden goose'. Mauve...err...Lilac was her name, by the way."
Luciano Senior blurts out, "That is the most retarded name I've ever heard! What was this thing, some kind of a transsexual? Is that who my boy is getting all involved with? Disgusting!"
Gordon stifles a sigh, "I...don't think she was...1 of those types. But that's beside the point. He used her to get rich. And I'm talking crazy rich. Your son took full advantage of her homeless situation."
"How does some homeless bum make my boy rich? I thought I gave that little goddamn brat everything he needed to succeed in life."
Gordo explains, "Mauve had a uh...ability. I don't understand a goddamn thing about it and thinking about it gives me a goddamn headache. Let's just say that it...it...seemed to work. Your son's financials weren't just in the green, they were exploding!"
Now, the Lasombra Fledgling is a bit intrigued, "Ah. Is that so? And where is this golden goose now?"
Gordon has an uneasy look written all over his tired face. He doesn't want to tell the elder Donovan, but he feels that he needs to, "She...might be...dead. I'm assuming that's the case, anyway. There was a fire that pretty much reduced her place to ash."
Gordo tugs on his cravat a few times, "A lot of shit happened. Your son's apparent success had attracted the attention of the SEC. They sent someone from their Enforcement Staff to look into him."
He groans, "Ugh, don't even get me started on that, Luciano."
Luciano Senior adjusts his tie and mutters, "Fair enough. Tell me more about this golden goose, then."
Gordon nods and continues, "Yeah. Heh. Thanks. So, Mauve did her thing. Your son and Paul Cho got pretty rich off of whatever the fuck it was that she did. It seemed too good to be true."
"Mm-hmm. Ah, how is Paul doing?"
Gordon gravely answers, "Missing. His house was tossed and no one's heard from him for the past few days."
The Lasombra Fledgling's mouth shifts from side to side, "Huh. He'll turn up eventually. So, my boy was just sitting back and reaping all of the benefits, huh?"
Gordon nods, "Yes. He was. In a way." He then frowns and adds, "It was all going smoothly up until a few days ago. The feds, somehow, got wind of what your kid was up to. Some specialized uh...taskforce brought in for questioning."
Luciano Senior shakes his head, "That little goddamn runt. Did he squeal like a little girl and wet himself?"
"I guess he did."
Gordon nervously adds, "He...he...he...even cut a deal with them. I don't know the EXACT contents of said deal, but it's pretty much a get-out-of-jail-for-free card on steroids."
"What the hell did he do now?" Luciano Senior impatiently inquires.
Gordon grimly notes, "He agreed to throw everyone under the bus. Mauve, particularly. Next thing you know, her apartment unit is toast. Paul's conveniently missing and..."
He pauses and looks away from the Donovan patriarch, "When I last spoke to your son, I got the impression that he was planning on doing the same thing to me. And you know me- I never doubt my instincts when it comes to things like this."
Luciano Senior's jaw tightens, "Wow. No loyalty, that boy, huh? Just like his fucking bitch mother. She really screwed him up, Gordon. Set him up for failure." Every word uttered oozes with such bitterness and spite.
Gordon shrugs and shakes his head, "I tried. I really did. I did everything in my power- and went above and beyond- to try and get him to be more...responsible and disciplined."
The Pym Reaper goes on, "You have no idea what kind of hell I've been through in the past few weeks because of your kid, Luciano. I dunno if I'm allowed to tell you the next part, though."
Luciano Senior lifts his chin, "This limo is bulletproof, swept for bugs daily, and soundproof. Whatever you tell me in here doesn't leave this car, Gordon. You have my word."
Gordon takes a deep breath and clasps his hands together, "This Mauve...woman. She--she was a--a vampire. That's what the head of that FBI taskforce tol--told me, anyways. I mean, your son blurted it out, but she...she was a vampire."
Luciano Senior blinks and leans back in his seat. He slowly strokes the rough bits of gray stubble on his chin and asks, "Is that so? So, you're saying that my boy was playing around with vampires?"
"It would appear so."
The Lasombra Fledgling laughs and his eyes immediately turn into a shade of pure black. Even the whites of his eyes turn into a shade of deep black. It is quite a startling sight.
Gordon's gasp is more like a wheeze. He gulps and tightly digs his fingers into the seats.
Luciano Senior's fangs elongate. His claws pop out. He grins, "Is that so?"
Gordo can hardly believe what he is witnessing. Out of desperation, he tries the door, but it's locked. He panics and screams, "Let me out!! Let me the fuck out!!"
He bangs on the glass divider and shouts, "Hey! Stop the car! STOP THE--"
Luciano Senior chuckles and violently pushes the fear-ridden mortal back onto the seat with a disturbing amount of preternatural strength. He grabs Gordo by the shoulders and growls.
Gordon's expression turns blank. His face becomes deathly pale. He can't take his eyes off of the voids that are the Lasombra's eyes.
Luciano Senior's mouth stretches into an unnaturally wide smile, and his fangs glisten in the faint light. However, Gordon sees the fangs retreating back into his gums and his eyes regaining their former color.
Luciano Senior calmly says, "Relax, Gordon. Relax."
A million billion questions run through the mortal fixer's frazzled head. He gulps and looks out the window. He then looks back at the Lasombra. He tries to wiggle around but can't move.
Luciano Senior pats the man's knee, "It all happened in Israel. And I am still trying to get accustomed to this new body, so I ask you to forgive me for that little...demonstration."
Gordon glowers at the vampire, "What the fuck are you??"
Luciano Senior pompously declares, "I am now a Fledgling of the Lasombra Clan. They call us Shadows and a whole bunch of other names."
Gordon's heart races, and his mouth is bone-dry, "How'd you--how'd you know where to find me?!"
"Ever since I returned to the city I love so much, I made sure to have somebody trail you...and a few other associates of mine. Close associates, mind you."
"Why?"
Luciano Senior bluntly answers, "Because I can. So, my boy has been fooling around with a fellow Kindred, hmm? This just got even more interesting."
"What the fuck is a Kindred?"
Luciano Senior's chuckle is dark and menacing. He doesn't answer that. Instead, he goes on, "Tell me more about this golden goose and the deal. Is she of my Clan as well?"
Gordon angrily answers, "How the hell am I supposed to know something like that? All the Feds told me was that Mauve Lilac was a dangerous vampire who had to be stopped."
Luciano Senior leans forward, "You know what I am, and yet, you are still...talking to me."
Gordon looks at the limo's door and shakily responds, "Because you--you're not exactly giving me much of a goddamn choice here, Luciano. 1 vampire is 1 too--too many."
"We'll see about that. Do you know what Clan this Mauve lady belonged to?"
Gordon's brows knit together, "Clan?! What in the fuck have you been smoking? How the hell would I know something like that?! The feds hunting these things only gave me the bare minimum. It was more like a 'need to know' basis kinda thing."
Luciano Senior scoffs, "Tch. And here I thought that the Pym Reaper would be bringing nothing short of his A-game. I am kind of disappointed in you, Gordon..."
Gordo grits his teeth and slowly reaches for his phone. Luciano Senior chuckles and recommends, "Oh, go on. Make a call when I'm around. See if you even get a connection."
The Pym Reaper hastily pulls a flip phone from his pocket and dials up the first number he can think of. It is another client of his. He presses the phone up to his ear and waits.
His hands tremble and his stomach churns. He nervously watches the vampire, "Come on. Come on."
Nothing.
Static is all he gets.
Luciano Senior sighs and remarks, "You are wasting our time, Gordon."
Gordo smacks his phone with the heel of his palm and angrily commands it to get a signal. When he finally realizes that it isn't working, he angrily throws his phone against the seat and snarls, "YOU DID SOMETHING! You had some sort of--"
Luciano Senior laughs, "No, I didn't have anything fitted into my limo. I am the signal interference, Gordon."
"..."
The Lasombra Fledgling smiles smugly, "It's a...Lasombra thing. We don't exactly get along well with modern electronic devices and what have you. Computers, phones, TVs, they all start acting funny and begin to fizzle around us. Heh. That's the best way I can describe it."
Gordon's voice drips with rage, "What the fuck have you become?!"
Luciano Senior proudly answers, "I have become something better, my good friend. Most...legends about vampires are kind of true. Blood consumption, immortality, staying the fuck away from the sun, wooden stakes, blah blah blah."
He adds, "Oh, but it's--it's so much more, too! Remember what I said about there being so many likeminded people on the streets of Israel, unlike this country where everything's going to shit?"
Gordon fearfully nods.
The Lasombra Fledgling sniffs, "That's how I met my Sire. The man who'd go on to...Embrace me. He is about 190-years-old."
He then chuckles and reveals, "I met him while visiting a synagogue in Jerusalem. Not that I'm a particularly religious man, heh, but the building was pretty nice."
Gordon's brow creases. His jaw tightens, "And you were just...a--your...Sire's almost 2 centuries old? How the fuck is that possible? How does it EVEN WORK?!"
Luciano Senior holds out his hand, palm facing the other man, and explains, "Well, I guess the simplest way of explaining it is like this: We're immortal. The age at which we get Embraced is forever the age we shall be."
"Embraced?! Like some goddamn vampire romance novel bullshit?!"
"Heh. More or less, yeah. Kindred Society is really into this flowery language. It's definitely a bit gay, but I steer clear of the more...extreme parts."
Gordo sneers, "And here I thought you hated all that stuff."
"I still do, Gordon. Oh, just because I've been Embraced, doesn't mean I've gone soft. If anything, I'm harder than I ever was."
(That statement can be interpreted in a number of ways.)
"Yeah, right. C'mon, Luciano, you're in your GODDAMN 70s! You'd be lucky to make it to your 90s!"
Luciano Senior counters, "You haven't been listening, have you? I'm forever in my 70s! If anything, I think the whole Embrace turned back my biological clock by a few years. I feel spry, I feel amazing, and I feel like I'm 18 all over again! I even feel like I can fuck like an 18-year-old!"
Gordon cringes and looks away.
LDJ's father chortles and notes, "I was already having trouble getting it up. But the Blood in my veins is capable of doing some fantastic things."
Gordon takes a deep and long breath and says, "This is some fucking insanity, Luciano."
"Is it?"
"Yeah. I--I don't know what--what's real anymore...and what's not."
Luciano Senior arrogantly declares, "I make my own fucking reality now, Gordon. And if you work with me, you'll get a piece of that, too."
Gordon's expression turns grim. He shakes his head and flatly replies, "I'll have to pass."
"Oh? Really? You wanna tell me what the fuck you were doing outside the US Attorney's office, Mr. Pym?"
Gordo uncomfortably wiggles in his seat and admits, "I was looking into a...few things."
"Oh, is that so? Tell me. Now." The Lasombra's tone is commanding and forceful.
Gordo clears his throat, "After the deal your son made, I was...I was thinking of turning myself in. Call it a pang of conscience for all I care. I--I can't keep going on like this. Taking care of the whims and fancies of rich kids like your goddamn son has been...it's taking a toll on me."
He continues, "And after your son's sweetheart deal, I was asking myself if--if my own days were numbered, too."
The Pym Reaper looks at his shoes, "I know where exactly all the bodies are buried, Luciano. I know who put 'em there, too. In theory, my testimonies would put a whole lotta people behind bars...for life."
"And what were YOU hoping to get out of such a deal, hmm?" Luciano Senior contemptuously prods.
Gordon sighs deeply, "At best, a reduced sentence for my involvement in all the illegal shit I've done over the past few years. At worst, jail for a few months and a tracking device around my goddamn ankle soon after. Either way, I wouldn't have to worry about...things anymore."
Luciano Senior asks, "Like what things??"
Gordo snaps, "Like the SEC, the FBI, or even the goddamn IRS coming after my sorry ass! Dammit, Luciano, YOU know the risks that come with being in this game!"
He bitterly adds, "But...but...it isn't just a game, is it?"
Luciano Senior concedes, "No, it is not. Hypothetically speaking, you turned yourself in? And then what? Hope for a hotel prison with a fucking golf course and yoga and puppies? Gordon, they'll fuckin' crucify you and make an example out of you. You think you'd even make it to trial?!"
Gordon doesn't have an answer.
The Shadow bitterly sighs and lowers his voice, "I'm going to make you an offer that you can't refuse. I know how much...scandalous shit you're sitting on..."
Gordo glares daggers at the Donovan patriarch, "Ugh, don't remind me. Carrying these secrets around and keeping them in check has been a pain in the goddamn ass. Especially for the past few weeks."
Without skipping a beat, Luciano Senior requests, "I'm going to want you to help me use these secrets to my--our advantage."
Gordon looks at his client with a mix of confusion, disgust, and disbelief, "Go to hell, Luciano. I--I'm a professional and professionals have standards. What would others--"
"Fuck what others say. Why? Because what I'm offering you will be permanent. You'll have to drop all your other clients and work solely for me."
The Lasombra Fledgling confidently adds, "My offer comes with a 100% guarantee, Gordon."
Gordo claps back, "Nothing in life is ever a 100% certain, Luciano."
"Oh, but Unlife is. Especially for those of us who have the power...and the smarts to wield it. Do you want a small taste of that kind of power, Gordon? Do you want to be the kind of guy who never has to worry about shit like the IRS ever again?"
The mortal fixer narrows his eyes and scoffs, "You're a vampire. Or high as a kite. Or--or both. I--I don't even know which one to believe...goddammit. Why--why would I want to be like you?!"
Luciano Senior answers, "Because it'd mean the end of all your problems, for starters. And no, you won't be EXACTLY like me. You'll be...in service to me. Eternal servitude, if you will."
Gordo's nostrils flare. He doesn't like the sound of this, "That sounds like a fancy way of saying slavery. What--what's in it for me, huh? Besides the end of all my problems, as you allege?"
"You'll live forever, you won't age, you'll have a small bit of my powers at your disposal, and you'll be a part of the new order that I'm going to build."
Gordon mockingly chuckles, "Jesus Christ. Do delusions of grandeur come with being a vampire or did you huff some potent shit back in Israel? Did you get a good look at your reflection in the bathroom mirror, Luciano? You look no different than a junkie."
Luciano Senior strokes his cheek and clicks his tongue, "Maybe I do, maybe I don't. Mirrors and us Lasombra are on a bit of a disagreement. Same with cameras and shit. It's a...Lasombra thing, again. It's pretty frightening, actually."
Gordo sarcastically responds, "Yeah, I'm sure that it is."
The Donovan patriarch mocks the mortal, "And to think that you- the PYM REAPER- would even entertain the idea of turning himself in! HAH! Since when did you get all soft, huh?"
Gordon gulps and confesses, "I...have a son, Luciano. I--it was 5 years ago. Me and some random nobody waitress got to talking, then 1 thing led to another, we hooked up, and..." he trails off as a few tears form at the corners of his eyes.
Luciano Senior doesn't say a word and merely watches the man.
Little Ralf's biological father continues, "Initially, I...denied it. But he--Ralf has my mother's eyes. His mom is just some nobody loser who waits tables, takes orders, and does menial shit like that."
Luciano Senior narrows his eyes, "Why is this the first time I'm hearing about this, Gordon? You- at your fucking age- pumping out a child. How is THAT something you can't share with me, your oldest friend?"
Gordon angrily claps back, "Because you're not my--my goddamn therapist. I don't owe you or--or anybody else a fucking thing!"
"Actually, you do owe me quite a lot. After that faggot Roy Cohn croaked, I took a chance on you, didn't I? His protégé, 1 of his many pet projects, the next big thing...allegedly. And how do you repay me, huh?"
"Fuck you, Luciano. I worked long and hard to get to where I am today, and I'll be damned if some old fossil tries to take credit for it! You were only a part of the money, a few of the connections, and some of the introductions, and the rest was all up to me!"
Luciano Senior chuckles, "And yet...I took a chance on you. I hired you, left you the reins, and gave you a wide berth. And now, you have the audacity to act all high and mighty, huh, like some kind of hysterical woman? Gordon, this is not the time to be weak. This is the time for you to be RUTHLESS!"
Gordon is taken aback by the harsh intensity of the vampire's words. His eyes widen and his breath is ragged. He feels an icy cold dread seeping through his bones and filling him with a deep sense of terror.
He stammers, "I--I'm plenty ruthless, Luciano. You know full well what I'm capable of."
Luciano Senior nods, "Indeed, I do. And the fact that you've gotten to where you are shows that you have the kind of...determination that I need by my side. A determined, unflinching, and uncompromising man. Someone who knows their shit."
The Shadow asserts, "I know who to keep around and who not to. I've seen your work, and it is nothing short of excellent. You, my good friend, have swept away and successfully dealt with problems I didn't even know I had. But now, I need you more than ever."
Gordo doesn't say a word.
The Lasombra Fledgling takes this as his cue to blabber on, "You know the many secrets of your other oh-so-illustrious clientele. Together- and when the time is right- we'll use that to our advantage."
Gordo scoffs, "When the time's right? Luciano, I'm hoping to die by then, OK? Besides, what you're suggesting is blackmail. Hell, it's...worse than that. It's the kind of shit I don't do. Ever."
Luciano Senior rolls his eyes, "So what? It's a new world out there, dumbass. And I'm not gonna act on the info you share with me. I'm gonna sit on it. And after a few years, we'll deploy it to our advantage. We'll be able to control the narrative and turn it into something favorable, dare I say, beautiful."
Gordon crosses his arms and mutters, "And why do you think this is going to work? What, are you planning on making me a vampire like that 190-year-old freak who made you?"
"You? Maybe not anytime soon. No, I plan on doing something else entirely..." the Lasombra proceeds to slit his wrist with his claw. A bit of his Vitae, which is thick and red, leaks from the deep cut.
Gordon recoils and cringes, "Jesus Christ. You've gotten nastier than usual."
Luciano Senior offers his bleeding wrist to the grimacing fixer, "I've been told that you have to drink 3 times for it to be successful."
Gordo lightly pushes the other man's cold wrist away, "Successful?! What the fuck are you on about?"
"It's how Ghouls are...created. 3 successive sips of the Domitor's Vitae and they get a bit of our power and immortality. If you wanna be a bit like me, this is the way to go, my good friend."
Gordon winces, "And worry about the sun--"
Luciano Senior cuts him off, "As a matter of fact, Ghouls- the lucky bastards that they are- don't have to worry about any of that. Hell, I've been told that they can even breed. I saw a few Ghoul children myself. They had this weird look in their eyes, but they were playing out in the sun."
"What do I get in return?"
"Life eternal, for starters. Keep up your drinking and you'll be forever...however-the-fuck-old you currently are. Miss a shot and that bitch will catch up with you pretty fucking fast. You'll also get a bit stronger, sharper, and better-looking...maybe. Oh, and you might have access to some of the Clan's Disciplines, but don't get too ahead of yourself just yet."
Gordon's eyes flit over to the Vitae oozing out of the other man's wrist. His mouth waters, but he doesn't have the courage to reach out and grab it.
He turns his head aside, "All this goddamn vampire talk has got me thinking of--of something that happened to me a few days back."
Luciano glares daggers at the mortal, "Hmph. What?"
"I--I dunno. It's all so goddamn fuzzy. But--but the mother of my...child accosted me and started demanding that I pay child support. I was a bit tired on that day, I think. The next thing I know, I'm waking up in the ER with a shooting pain in my neck."
The mortal's expression twists and contorts into a mix of guilt and anger, "I think...I think...ach, never mind. The more I think about it, the more my head hurts. Maybe Sammie tried to--"
He stops himself with a grunt, "Grrrfg. There I go again, rambling off. So, your offer...do I have to take it now or can I get a few days to thi--?"
"Drink."
Gordon takes a deep and shaky breath and reaches for the Lasombra's wrist. He wraps his lips around the bleeding gash and sucks a few drops of the thick and viscous Vitae into his mouth.
Luciano pulls his wrist away. The cut begins to magically mend itself, much to Gordon's amazement.
"That's 1 sip. You'll have to have 2 more. And soon."
Gordon makes a face, like a kid eating food which they're not particularly fond of. He swallows the Vitae and grimaces, "Eurgh. It tastes...huh...it tastes a bit sweet, actually."
Luciano Senior mentions, "We Donovans have good genes. Always have, always will."
"Hmm, riiiiiight. And after the 3rd...sip, I what, become your Ghoul? How exactly does this shit work? Assuming that it even works."
Luciano Senior smirks, "Yes. And it will. And once you're a Ghoul, you'll get a better idea of things. You'll start to see things clearly and logically- you'll start seeing things my way. Ghouls can get a bit clingy, but you're a smart man, Gordon. I'm sure that you'll figure it out when the time's right."
Gordo grunts, "Hrmmph. This better not be some kind of an elaborate prank, Luciano. You know how much I hate shooting the shit and wasting time. Now, what was this about me working exclusively for you?"
The Shadow's tone is authoritative and commanding, "Yes. You're gonna have to part ways with your other clientele, Mr. Pym. I know how much they mean to you, but you gotta pick a side and stick to it. And the side you're on is mine and mine alone."
The Pym Reaper isn't too thrilled about that, "Isn't there still a way for me to work all sides, Luciano?"
"Not with my rules, no. They'll understand...hell, we'll outlast them all, anyway. And we'll take their stuff and put it to much better use, don't you worry about that. Besides, there's no reason for us to be so excited. I'm Kindred, I now have all the time in the world."
Gordon comments, "You also seem to have all the money in the world..."
Luciano Senior lowers his gaze and his face tics, "Yes. Yes, I do. Ah, actually...I...I'm missing quite a bit of it."
Gordo asks, "Hmm. So...where do we go from here, Luciano? You're expecting me to get your assets back, aren't you?"
The Donovan patriarch sighs and shakes his head, "Unfortunately, that is only something I am capable of doing. We Lasombra, it is claimed, like to test people prior to Embracing them. The best and brightest will rise to the top, while the rest...well, you get the messy picture, haha!"
The old creep elaborates, "My nearly 2-century-old Sire gave me a choice. That's why I came back to Flimont City. I--I had to come back here and make my mark. And now, I'm giving you a choice."
The soon-to-be Ghoul mutters, "Hmm."
The limo hits a particularly nasty bump. Luciano Senior utters a few choice words and holds onto the armrests. Gordon is shaken about, but he's able to keep his balance.
The Lasombra Fledgling growls and hisses, "Grrr. That was--goddamn, never mind."
He gathers himself and proceeds, "We are on the cusp of something great here. Do you think that I'm going to let the little people- the inferior ones- stop me or--or get in my way?"
Gordon's chuckle is brief and mirthless, "I know you too well, Luciano..."
Luciano Senior waggles a finger at the bored-looking fixer, "Remember: you're either for me or against me...and you sure as hell don't wanna be in my way."
"Mm-hmm. Fair enough, I suppose. There's still the matter of your son. I hate sounding like a broken record, but he's been a pain in my ass for the past few weeks. D--Don't even get me started on the things I had to do to keep him happy."
Gordon's tone is terse and agitated. He rubs his temples and lets out a long sigh.
Luciano Senior steeples his fingers together in the shape of a tent, "I can imagine. And I'm sorry for all the trouble he's caused you. Don't worry, after I'm done giving him off, you'll never have to see him again."
Gordo's eyebrows shoot up, "What?! Giving him off? Wh--what the fuck are--"
The Shadow's face is unreadable, "My Clan demanded of me a high price. I only had an either/or choice..."
"Care to tell me what that choice was?" the fixer prods. He knows that he's probably not going to like the answer.
A brief flash of displeasure crosses Luciano Senior's face. He clears his throat and answers, "Either I give up my firstborn son...or I relinquish all of my wealth- all of it, including my assets, watches, everything."
Gordo gulps. His lips quiver in disbelief, "Wh--wh--what?! Your own son? Why--why would you agree to that?!"
Luciano Senior indifferently shrugs, "It's already been decided- I've already made up my mind and you sure as hell aren't changing it. My Clan has already given me their full blessing, and they expect me to deliver. I'm not gonna disappoint them."
He explains, "After all, I am still a Fledgling in their eyes. I have to prove myself, prove that I have the balls of steel to do what needs to be done."
Gordon looks away and mutters, "Jesus Christ." He's at a loss for words.
The Shadow questions, "This deal that my idiot son made with the Feds--"
Gordon anticipates the query and sighs, "Yes. I--I know where he's being held at. They're scheduled to move him out in--"
He stops and nervously glances at his watch, "--in a few hours. I can get in and get...oh, shit...I can get the route that they're gonna take. Don't even try to raid the building, Luciano; they're on the watch for...for...your kind."
Luciano Senior's tone is sharp and curt, "Very well, then. You better get to it. I want that failure of a man before the sun rises- we have plenty of time. I'll wait in a dark corner while you go and get the route. Once you're done, we'll meet back in the limo. Y'know, I'm starting to like this one, heh."
A wee while later...
Gordon gives the Lasombra a small nod and exits the limo. Before he steps out, the vampire grabs a hold of his wrist and gravely warns, "And don't you even fucking think about betraying me, Gordon. I'll know if you do."
The fixer scoffs and wrestles his hand free, "I'm not that stupid, Luciano. Stop treating me like a goddamn idiot. And stop talking to me like I--I'm your butler."
Luciano Senior teases, "Oh, marone. You've got some attitude in you, huh? Just remember what's in it for you, hmm? Life eternal, wealth, power, and a few holes."
Gordon's expression is unreadable. He doesn't say a word and steps out of the limo. He checks his clothes and makes his way to the front of the SAD HQ.
As he's walking on, he tries to keep a straight face. He's still shivering from his encounter with a member of the Night Clan. The soon-to-be Ghoul looks over his shoulder and sees the limo ominously parked a few blocks away. He can't help but feel like he's being watched.
Like the eyes of LDJ's father are burrowing into the back of his head. He's not sure whether it's just his imagination or not. He feels like he's slowly going crazy.
He walks to the front and asks to see his client. The guard nods and waves him inside. The security check in the marble lobby is a breeze.
Luciano Donovan Junior is in the middle of arguing with Special Agent Harold Cuomo. The former wants a bigger TV so he can watch his cartoons while the latter is insisting that he stays put.
The Special Agent isn't in the mood to argue with LDJ, "Mr. Donovan--you're scheduled to leave in another few minutes. I don't really see the point of getting you a new TV. Once the motorcade's here, you're out and on a plane headed to New Orleans to be with your girlfriend and start a new life."
Luciano Junior crosses his arms and scoffs, "Tchah! Fine! But I'm not gonna forget this, alright? That fuckin' tiny TV gave me a headache! How do you see anything on it, huh?!"
Special Agent Cuomo shrugs, "It's good enough for me. It's not like I'm trying to watch fuckin' Bugs Bunny on it, Mr. Donovan."
Luciano Junior wags his finger and tuts, "Hey! Don't badmouth the bunny. He's funny, I like him."
Special Agent Cuomo murmurs, "It's hard to believe that you're Luciano Donovan Senior's kid. The only known male heir to the Donovan fortune. You're nothing like him, you know that, right?"
LDJ chuckles faintly, "That's the fuckin' point. I don't wanna be like my old man. I'm my own man, making his own goddamn way in the world."
The Special Agent comments, "You sure are, Mr. Donovan. And now that you've essentially got what amounts to a clean slate, what are you planning on doing?"
"I dunno. I'll figure it out as I go along. I'm smart, sharp, sexy, and rich. I can do whatever the fuck I want. And I'm not afraid of my old man...or anybody else."
"I never did ask: what are family get-togethers like? Do you get awkward around any of your half-sisters?"
LDJ tsks, "I don't even fuckin' know who any of them are. Ugh, just thinkin' about my old man getting--ah, you know what? Never mind. Fuck him, fuck my so-called sisters. I'm done with all of it. So, when's my fancy-ass motorcade coming?"
Special Agent Cuomo answers, "Soon. We're just finalizing some last-minute details. Once that's done, you'll be out of here and on your way to New Orleans. Beautiful place to...raise a family, if you don't mind me saying so."
Luciano Junior rolls his eyes, "Yeah, yeah. I know, I know. Angie's...pretty excited about all of it. She stuck with me so far, that--that counts for something, right?"
"I suppose that it does." The Special Agent cracks a tiny smile before walking away.
A few seconds later, Gordon approaches LDJ, "Luciano...hmph. Never mind. What's...what's up?"
LDJ looks at the fixer and scoffs, "Nothing much. I'm just waiting for my motorcade to get here. Then my ass is on a jet and I'm fuckin' OUTTA HERE, BABY! WHOO!" he obnoxiously whoops and hollers.
Gordon winces, "Jesus Christ, Luciano. Keep it down. I wanted to see that...Harold guy. I need to speak with him about--about some things."
LDJ narrows his eyes and stares at the Pym Reaper, "You look like you've seen a ghost, Gordon. You doing OK, old man?"
Gordo shakes his head and tries to remain composed. The knowledge of what shall soon unfold weighs heavily down on him. He feels a knot in his stomach and a lump in his throat.
He grunts, "I'm--I'm fine, Luciano. Just tell me where Harold is. I--for what it's worth--you know what? Never mind." He lowers his head and slowly walks away.
Luciano Junior calls out, "Hey! Hey, Gordon! What the fuck's wrong with you, huh?"
Gordo lazily responds, "I'm just...tired, kid." The fixer eventually finds the Special Agent and they get to chatting.
Special Agent Cuomo is in his office. He throws his feet up on the table and relaxes in his chair. He's in the middle of reading a book when Gordon enters the room.
This particular tome was seized from a Tremere library somewhere in Tacoma. It's quite the page-turner. He's technically not supposed to be reading it, but things conveniently "go missing" from the evidence rooms all the time.
Gordon greets the agent, "Harold--"
"It's Special Agent Harold Cuomo to you. Close friends call me Harry, but I strongly doubt that you'll ever earn that privilege." The Special Agent closes his book and sets it aside.
The fixer groans, "Hmph." He sits opposite the Federal Agent and nods over to the Masonic ring on desk.
"You're part of the Freemasons, huh? I always wondered what it was like to be part of a secret society of dorks who have no other answer to their receding hairlines and midlife crises."
The corner of Special Agent Cuomo's mouth turns up a little, "You're not far off the mark, heh. But I'm not gonna let you get under my skin...Mister Pym. I have quite a bit of...intel on you."
"I'm sure you do. But I'm not here so you can try and blackmail me. I'm here to check up on my client. How is he?"
Special Agent Cuomo shrugs, "About as well as a 20-something who got the greatest sweetheart deal in recent history can be. To be honest, I was surprised at how quickly our terms were agreed to. I was expecting a lot more resistance, but someone up in DC must be in a real giving mood, huh?"
Gordo folds 1 leg over the other, "Hmm. So, when are you guys moving him out? I--I'm curious. I'd like to know his...route, if you don't mind."
Special Agent Cuomo's brows knit together and he leans forward, "Why?"
Gordon sighs, "Because I've been practically babysitting Luciano Junior for the past few goddamn weeks. Old habits, I guess- I'd sleep a lot easier if I knew where he was headed. And how he's getting there."
Special Agent Cuomo smiles, "I'm sure you would. A guy like you, operating in a legal gray area that even WE can't touch...well, I'm sure that you're not used to having to deal with people like us?"
Gordon scratches his eyebrow, "Vampire hunters embedded within the Federal Bureau of Investigation wasn't exactly on my bingo card for this year. But you people seem to be doing a pretty good job of it. The fire at the Ridge, I take it that was your handiwork?"
Special Agent Cuomo darkly snickers, "I can neither confirm nor deny any involvement with that, Mr. Pym."
The fixer glowers at the smug Special Agent, "Hmph. Of course you talk in silly spy clichés. You guys are all the same, aren't you? Playing by your own rules and taking out anyone who gets in your way."
Special Agent Cuomo retorts, "Says the guy who cleans up after the rich and famous. 1 phone call and I could open up an investigation into your ass, Mr. Pym. A deep and thorough one. But I won't. For now. I have my sights set on other, more important targets."
Gordon mutters, "So, about that route..."
Special Agent Cuomo callously slides a piece of paper across the table, "Here. It's all here. I hope you enjoy your newfound peace of mind, Mr. Pym. Have you tried yoga, by any chance?"
Gordon pockets the slip of paper and gets up, "I prefer Tylenol. Thanks for your time, Harold. And good luck with the whole...vampire-hunting thing."
Special Agent Cuomo groans, "Sure. And don't expect me to wish you luck in your endeavors."
"I got to where I am without anybody- including my own mother- wishing me luck."
The Special Agent chuckles softly and sees the fixer out. He takes a sip from his coffee mug and returns to his book.
A few minutes later...
Gordon settles into the Lasombra Fledgling's limo and lets out a shuddering sigh of sheer relief. Luciano Senior holds out his hand and has a light smirk on his face.
"Give it to me."
Gordon hands the Shadow the slip of paper, "It's all in here. I...spoke to--"
Luciano Senior cuts him off, "I don't wanna hear it. I'll pass this on." He raps his knuckles on the divider glass. The limo starts up and drives away.
Gordon asks, "So, where are we going now?"
The Lasombra Fledgling replies, "I missed this city, y'know? So, any reason why my flesh and blood would pick a nigger-infested shithole like New Orleans?"
Jesus H. Supreme Yikes.
Gordon uncomfortably shifts in his seat, "Uhhhh...maybe he likes Cajun food? I--I don't know."
"Is he seeing anyone?"
Gordon gulps and shakes his head, "N--not that I know of, no. Why?"
He knows that this is a lie, but he refrains from telling the truth because Angie is black...and well, Gordon is well aware of how much Luciano Senior over here hates black people.
Luciano Senior grumbles, "No reason. I just thought that he'd have better taste in women than me, that's all. You're sure that there's no one he's doing, right?"
"C'mon, he's a grown adult. And that part of--of his life isn't any of my business...or--or yours, for that matter."
Luciano Senior dismissively waves his hand, "Tch. I paid for everything in that little runt's worthless excuse of a life barely lived. If I wanna know who he fucks, then I sure as hell am entitled to know who he fucks. You got that, Gordon?"
Gordon nods and looks out the window. He gets the impression that being in the eternal servitude of this odious, vile, and repulsive creature is going to be a sort of Unliving hell. Purgatory, even.
The limo slowly cruises down the streets of F-City. The city lights illuminate the dark night.
After some tense silence, Gordon clears his throat, "What are you--what are you planning on doing with your son, Luciano?"
The old man callously answers, "Sacrifices will need to be made, Gordon. It was either that little excuse of an existence or all the wealth and power I've built up over the years. I made my choice."
"You--you're gonna kill him, aren't you?"
"Haha! No. I'm going to have him sent back to my fellow Lasombra in Israel- they can do to him whatever they damn well please. Once he's been handed over, I wash my hands of him and get my stuff back."
Gordon's jaw drops. He can't believe what he's hearing.
He never expected Luciano Senior to be so cold-blooded (he was before, but THIS is on a whole new level). And the look on his face is even worse: it's like he doesn't care at all.
The Shadow continues, "I've already contacted them and made the necessary arrangements."
Gordon changes the subject, "The SEC was investigating your son."
"Hmph. Of course. Those fuckin' people have absolutely nothing better to do than waste taxpayer money, huh. It's like I never even sat on the advisory board for the SEC, tch."
Gordon flatly comments, "It's a shame that they never took your advice to heart."
"Heh, yeah, it sure is. But I'm gonna outlive the SEC, Gordon. And you're coming along with me for the ride. I'm gonna go places. We're gonna see things that no one else has ever seen before. Hell, we are going to DO things that nobody else has ever done before."
Gordon stifles a sigh, "I'm looking forward to it. I don't have much of a choice, do I?"
"2 more sips to unlock your true potential..."
"Ah. Hm. Do you wanna tell me more about this whole Ghoul thing? You--you're not gonna be able to read my mind, are you?"
Luciano Senior snickers, "Heh, no. Why? Are you hiding something from me? Spill it now or wait till I inevitably find out. And when I do, oh marone, it's gonna bite you in the ass."
Gordon feels a shiver worming its way down his spine. He shakes his head from side to side, "N--no, I'm not hiding anything from you, Luciano. Why would I? Before...all of this, I've been nothing but loyal to you."
"You sure as hell have. And you're gonna continue being loyal to me, right? You know how much I value loyalty, right?"
The Pym Reaper wordlessly nods his head while a few beads of sweat roll down his forehead.
Luciano Senior cracks a tiny and menacing smile, "Good. I'm glad that we're on the same page. You're a father. If you were given a choice, which would you choose: all of your wealth or your firstborn son?"
Is he actually expecting an answer?!
Gordon eyebrows shoot up and he lets out a very shaky and fearful exhale, "I--I can't say. I barely even kn--know Ralf--" he stammers and stumbles over his words.
The Lasombra Fledgling chuckles and lets the heavy tension linger in the air for a few minutes before finally responding, "Hm. I thought so. You're not like me, Gordon. You're weak. But we can fix that, oh I sure can."
Gordon gulps and nervously rubs his hands together, "How?"
"The Night Clan will show you- I'll show you. You'll find out as the nights roll on. Tell me more about these nosy SEC jokers who've been 'investigating' that little clown."
Gordon murmurs, "Oh, great. Here goes nothing..."
The Pym Reaper gives the old bastard the rundown by filling in the blanks, so to speak. He refrains from mentioning A LOT, however. The whole Mr. Strickland and his assassins thing, the kerfuffle with Markham Reed, and other things that he deems as unnecessary and/or redundant.
However, the future Ghoul does decide to bring it up a little later, maybe when the proverbial dust has settled? Perhaps.
Luciano Senior takes it all in, a hardened expression on his pallid face, "Markham Reed, huh? Enforcement Investigator for the SEC? I'll take care of it. I still know some people in Seattle. And I'm sure that they'll be more than happy to help me out."
Gordon shakes his head, "That whole Reed thing was an obsession of ours--mine. I even went to the town of his birth to try and dig up some dirt on him, but I only came back with more questions than answers. And a splitting headache."
Luciano Senior inquires, "What's his story?"
Gordon scoffs bitterly, "I don't know. I just...don't know."
This- all of this- is getting a bit too much for Gordon Pym to handle in a single freakin' night! He groans and asks to be dropped home.
On the way to the Pym Reaper's dwelling place, Luciano Senior asserts, "Your Ralf is going to need a man to raise him up, raise him right. Some no-good slut of a waitress is hardly suitable to be a parent..."
Gordon rolls his eyes, "Ah, great. Hmph. What prompted this line of thought, Luciano?"
There's some traffic ahead. The limo slows down to a crawl.
Luciano Senior goes on, "You don't want Ralf to end up like my boy, do you? A failure, a disgrace to the Donovan family name, a weak and spineless coward who'd rather hide behind everyone and everything. You don't want that, do you?"
With some heaviness in his voice, Gordo admits, "I don't know what I want for that kid. Hell, I don't even know the first fucking thing about him. All I know is that he's...he's mine."
"Well, if you want my advice, you should keep him away from his mother. Women, nothing but goddamn trouble. I don't need them anymore."
Gordon looks confused, "Huh?"
The Lasombra Fledgling places his chin on his fist and sighs, "You don't need me to explain the birds and the bees to you? I'm sure that you've had your fair share of pastrami sandwiches to figure it out for yourself. I still want to have children, Gordon...and I can--I will."
Gordo treads carefully, "Luciano...you're in your 70s. Even if you still could--goddammit. Can vampires have kids, how exactly does something like that even work?"
Luciano Senior lifts his chin, "Oh, you'll find out soon enough, Gordon. I don't need my seed anymore. I have my Blood, my Vitae. Do you know what my dear old Nonna always used to say to me?"
Gordon gestures for him to go on, "No, I don't. What did she say?"
Luciano Senior answers, "She told me to go out there and have many, many, many kids."
The Pym Reaper points out, "You've already fulfilled her wish, then. You've got more children, mainly daughters--"
The Shadow contemptuously declares, "Fuck them. ALL of them. Nothing but mistakes. And I am going to rectify those mistakes as time goes on. And you're gonna help me, Gordon. You're gonna help me clean up my messes."
(Luciano Senior also has many grandchildren. Sadly, the future does not bode well for ANY of them.)
Gordon swallows a constricting lump in his throat, "I...I'll do my best. What you're proposing won't be easy, but...s--sure.""
Luciano Senior scoffs, "You'd better. I don't need no woman, I don't need my seed. All I need is...Blood. I'm also expecting you to help me find some potential Childer."
"Childer?"
"I am the Childe of my 190-year-old Sire. He has many Childer. Get with the terminology, Pym. I'll now be able to have kids without all the additional troubles."
This nasty old gremlin intends to Sire scores of Childer into his Clan and into his business operations. It's almost like he wants to populate the Earth with his own brand of Lasombra.
Ah, rich old guys and their nastiness. Foul fucking bastards, the lot of them. They don't exactly want children (or Childer, for that matter). They want identical clones, carbon copies of themselves.
It's quite typical of the social layer that Luciano Senior belongs to. And it is deeply disturbing. Who do you think secretly funds all those eugenicist pushers, groups, "studies", and movements?
Gordon feels a migraine coming on. An unintended side-effect of the trace amounts of his soon-to-be Domitor's Vitae sloshing around in his system.
(Well, blud made his choice. So, he better get used to it).
Gordon just hopes that omitting certain things pertaining to LDJ won't come back to bite his ass down the line. He is, after all, a creature of self-preservation.
His crisis of conscience was somewhat hypocritical. He was only planning on turning himself in because he felt personally affected by what might happen to him.
At a later date (or never), he'll go into more detail about how he tried (numerous times) and failed to have the SEC Enforcement Investigator bumped off.
After a good while, the limousine of the Lasombra Fledgling grinds to a halt in front of the residence of Gordon Pym.
Before the Pym Reaper can make his exit, Luciano Senior grips the wrist of his soon-to-be Ghoul and sternly warns him, "Don't you even fucking THINK of trying anything funny--"
Gordon glares at his soon-to-be Domitor and brusquely retorts, "Or you'll what, huh? This is beneath you--"
Luciano Senior grimly threatens, "Or else I'll personally pay little Ralf a visit- I'm a VERY resourceful man who still has his ways- and it won't be to bring him a Christmas present. Hell, I might even pop by whenever I feel...Hungry. And when I'm in that state, I can't exactly be held responsible for my actions..."
HOLY SHIT!
He laughs lowly. His voice is like sandpaper. It's awful. Truly awful.
Gordon's expression shifts from subtle disgust to full-on shock. He quickly snatches his arm away from the old man and leaves. The last thing he needs is more shit to deal with. Especially this. Especially now. 
Gordon Pym stumbles out of the limo, the weight of his decisions weighing heavily on his slightly slumped shoulders. He hobbles his way back to his place and pops a multitude of pills so that he can sleep it all away.
The future Ghoul doesn't know what else to do. He's been through a lot in a very short amount of time.
He washes his hands- both in the literal and abstract sense- of any further thing to do with Luciano Donovan Junior; that buster's fate is pretty much sealed.
After drying his hands with a towel, Gordo checks the time. It's almost past midnight, but not too late for a glass or 2 of single malt scotch. He's not necessarily one for casual boozing but tonight has been...a night.
As the fixer is lightly sipping on his booze (a thank you gift from another client of his), he surmises that alcohol is going to play a major part in his new life going forward. He has a feeling that he'll need it. A lot of it.
To drown out the nagging thoughts, the many voices, and the...other things. Yeah, he definitely feels some kind of...something that he hasn't felt before.
It is the Vitae of his master asserting itself within not only Mr. Pym's body but also his psyche. It is starting to take root in his mind, in his very essence, his being as a whole.
He is slowly beginning to change. And not for the better, mind you. Not. For. The. Better.
Luciano Senior has already relayed the relevant info to his fellow Lasombra in this city. A few of them came from Israel (absolute maniacs) and the rest of them are the Sabbat defectors looking for a place in Prince Antonio's Court (or what's left of it).
They coordinate a plan and ready themselves.
Special Agent Cuomo claps his hands and loudly announces, "ALRIGHT, PEOPLE! Showtime! Let's get this baby on the road! I want wheels up in 30! Let's move, people! Let's move!"
Luciano Junior is strapped with a Kevlar vest (for added protection and show, if nothing else). He fidgets with it as Agent Heartley struggles to secure a strap. His heart races, thumps against his rib cage. Sweat rolls down his forehead.
"Hey, get off me!" LDJ swats Agent Heartley's hand away, "I can do it myself!" He tugs and adjusts the straps of the bulletproof vest.
Agent Heartley groans and shakes her head, "Hff. Fine. After this, you're no longer our problem."
Special Agent Cuomo approaches the little twerp, "All fine here? There's a plane- fueled and ready- waiting for you." He gestures for LDJ to follow him.
As the 2 of them walk, Special Agent Cuomo goes on, "Pilot has instructions to fly you straight to the Big Easy. I've instructed a few field agents to pick up your girlfriend so she can join you there. It's the least we could do."
LJD sighs, "And my stuff?"
"All packed and ready, just like you told us. The rest will be shipped to you."
"I guess that's it, then..." Luciano Junior says, dejectedly.
Special Agent Cuomo claps the other man's back, "Think of this as a...a new start. Truth be told, we're giving more than we're getting from this whole deal with you."
Luciano Jr. glowers at the Special Agent, "Fuck you. I gave you Mauve, Paul, and Gordon too. That's all I know. Hell, I'd give my dad up, but I dunno where that old creep is."
"Don't worry about your father. Just worry about yourself."
A large convoy of bulletproof SUVs with tinted windows pulls up into the parking lot. There are armed people inside of each and every one of them.
A fair-skinned man in a tight suit and a short haircut has his hands clasped together. His broad chest is puffed out, and his stance is wide and confident. He approaches Special Agent Cuomo and Luciano Junior.
The man extends his warm hand to LDJ, "Name's Mike. It's a pleasure to meet you, Mr. Donovan."
Luciano Junior skeptically eyes this newcomer. He cautiously accepts his handshake. This guy's grip is terribly firm, "Uh...Luciano. Junior. But you already knew that. What do you do around here?"
With an annoying smirk, Mike answers, "I'll be your temporary head of security. Due to the traffic in this city, the motorcade is going to take a while."
Special Agent Cuomo clarifies, "We're taking extra precautions just in case anyone from your...old life tries to bump you off on the way to the airfield. Can't be too cautious, heh. And you DID get yourself a pretty sweet deal."
LDJ adjusts his collar and rudely asks, "Why do you keep bringing up my fuckin' deal like it's a bad thing? You people are the ones who forced me into this. You guys made me sell...everyone out."
Special Agent Cuomo's chuckle is dry and mirthless, "I'm not gonna argue with you. I'd like to say that it was a pleasure knowing you, but truth be told, I'd sooner stick a cactus up my ass and sing the whole score from a shitty musical in a nightclub than ever see your face again."
Agent Mike snickers.
LDJ grumbles under his breath, "Pfft. Yeah, fuck you too."
From there, Agent Mike holds the door open for the self-entitled son of the Lasombra Fledgling. Luciano Jr. climbs into the backseat of a bulletproof SUV.
Agent Mike climbs in soon after and wiggles around till he's all settled in. He taps his earpiece and says, "Sierra-November, all clear. Rooster is in the henhouse. I repeat: Rooster is in the henhouse. Ready to roll."
Luciano Junior asks, "Rooster? The fuck kinda codename is that?"
Agent Mike laughs heartily, "It was Agent Heartley's idea, s--sir. I just follow orders around here. Don't look at me like I have a say in the matter. We'll be going now. Try and relax, sir. You're safe with us."
Luciano Jr. throws his head against the plush headrest and heaves a mighty sigh. This is it. The end of the road for him. He just doesn't know it yet.
The motorcade pulls out. Special Agent Cuomo indifferently watches on.
Agent Heartley folds her arms and breathes a sigh of relief, "Phew! Glad he's outta our hair, huh? Y'know, Harry, I've never met anyone so obnoxious and unpleasant before. God help us if that kid ever amasses as much power as his dad."
Special Agent Cuomo's expression is cold and distant, "I'd take Skinny-fucking-Tim any day over...this. Do you feel that we lost more than we gained by letting him off like that? I mean, we've got his associates, but still..."
Agent Heartley scoffs, "Oh, yeah. Sure. He turned state's evidence for a single blank body. Other than that...what has he given us?"
Special Agent Cuomo bites his lower lip and puts his hands on his hips, "I wanna start by opening up investigations into Paul Cho, Gordon Pym, and the other investors in Luciano Donovan Junior's circles."
He adds, "Give it to the lower rungs, but the moment that they see something fishy, we swoop in and take over. You find anything useful on that blank body's laptop? What about her things?"
Agent Heartley shrugs, "We're still sifting through it. By the way, any news from your Mister X?"
"Nope. Not a squeak. Why?"
"Just curious, Harold. I'm itching to get back out on the field again. I know that our recent losses aren't doing us any favors but...we're getting nowhere with the op. I mean, the SAD is a great place to work but we can't stand around here and do nothing while all of these fucking blank bodies--"
Special Agent Cuomo holds up his hand and cuts her off, "I know, I know. How 'bout this: the next piece of intel that we receive is yours for the taking. I'll send you on that one, how about that?"
Agent Heartley smiles brightly and nods her head, "I like the sound of that, sir."
The sight of the convoy grows smaller in the distance. Special Agent Cuomo is very relieved to be rid of this particular headache. As the duo head back inside, Special Agent Cuomo tells his second-in-command about this book that he's been reading.
"Oh, shit. You really need to see it to believe it, Heather."
The streets are mostly dark. The night still reigns supreme and is far from over. The city is still alive, albeit at a slightly slower pace.
The motorcade slows down due to some unexpected traffic up ahead.
Agent Mike taps his earpiece and rasps, "What's the holdup? Oh. Huh. OK. Ten-Four, Sierra-November. Out."
Luciano Junior impatiently asks, "Why aren't we there yet, huh? Y'know, I thought that they was gonna put me in a fuckin' helicopter."
Agent Mike adjusts the sleeves of his own tight suit and chuckles lightly, "Well, you know how the higher-ups can get, sir. I just follow orders and do as I'm told around here."
"Oh, yeah? And what exactly did they tell you, huh?"
Agent Mike shrugs, "That you are an important witness of some kind who has or--or had some very dangerous friends. We're supposed to protect you, sir. You have a woman by the name of Angelique waiting for you in New Orleans."
Luciano Jr. sarcastically quips, "Yeah, that about sums it up neatly, heh. And what's your story, huh? Mike. Mikey or whatever the fuck."
Agent Mike clears his throat, "Did a tour in Afghanistan, sir. Did a lotta good there. Came back and my cousin hooked me up with a sweet gig with some top-secret FBI taskforce. No regrets, no complaints, no looking back, sir."
(Ah, just your average, run-of-the-mill war criminal).
Luciano Jr. blandly gesticulates, "Cool, cool. So, you...kill anyone?"
Agent Mike licks his lips and nods, "Yes, I--I have, sir. They...had it coming, if you get my meaning, sir."
Luciano Jr. smirks, "Sounds like you were doing God's work back there. Are you--are you expecting anyone to jump us?"
Agent Mike looks at his watch, "We can never be too cautious, sir. Don't worry, these babies that you're riding in are bulletproof." He knocks on the bulletproof windows and grins.
The son of the Lasombra Fledgling sighs, "I know that. You're SURE that we--we're safe, right?"
Agent Mike reassures him, "As safe as can be, sir."
After some light maneuvering, the motorcade gets to moving at a steady pace again.
Somewhere under a bridge...
The lights are all out- killed would be a better description. Shards of glass litter the floor of this dark place. An old and nearly decrepit bridge looms above the gathered Shadows. A few cars pass by, but nothing else. It's dark and cold.
There's not much to see. There's not much that CAN be seen. The cracked and crumbling pavement is the only thing that can be discerned through the pitch blackness of the night.
But it's not just an ordinary pitch darkness, there's something extra here. Some thick, indiscernible fog that hangs heavily over the bridge and everything around it.
This unnatural mist seems to be emanating from a lone figure sulking under this bridge. He leans against a support beam of this decaying bridge and folds his arms. His expression is blank.
He sports a ducktail beard and unhealthily pale skin. A pair of sunglasses shields his eyes from the world around him. There is a slight grin on his face. It's subtle and almost unnoticeable.
His trenchcoat flaps in the light wind. The hem of his coat brushes up against his shins. There's no sound except for the occasional gust of wind and the sound of cars passing by.
A woman sports similar clothing. She's ducking behind a support beam, just far enough away from the man that she can still get a good look at him.
She glares at him, "Showoff. Since when were you capable of utilizing your Oblivion Discipline to cover large swathes of land like this?"
The man chuckles lightly and answers, "Since 1997. This is the result of all of my hard work, Dona."
Dona scoffs, "And all that Diablerie you've been committing. Your own Sire's Sire. You're insane, Eli."
Eli smirks and extends his hands to either side of his body, "Well...I'm still here, aren't I?"
He jerks his chin over to a group of 4 people huddled closely together and asks his fellow Lasombra, "What's their story?"
Dona explains, "They're with the Israeli...err...branch of our Clan. Some hotshot named Luciano Donovan Senior wanted us to work with them."
Eli observes, "They haven't said much...they're not Sabbat, right?"
Dona claps back, "Fuck should I know, huh? Do I look like I have access to the Auspex Discipline, huh?"
Eli snickers, "Oh, I love it when you get all riled up." From there, he pulls out his wakizashi sword and begins to show off by elaborately twirling it around. He has a very distinct and elaborate fencing technique.
Dona sighs, "Showoff..." she cracks her knuckles and puts on a thick pair of worn-down gloves.
Eli taunts, "You're just mad because you're not as good as me."
She retorts, "Says the Banu Haqim wannabe."
Trenchcoats, sunglasses at night, and swords. These yuppies-turned-edgy-mall-ninjas have really done it for themselves. They're a bit old to be wearing these kinds of outfits, but they are pretty damn badass and are NOT to be taken lightly or underestimated.
On the other hand, their fellow Lasombra are dressed fairly casually. Their hollow and ashen faces are all grimaces and sneers. Their fangs are borne and their claws are out. These 4 Israelis look ready for a fight.
A bloody one.
Dona's enhanced vampiric hearing picks up on a slight rumble in the distance. She perks her head up and narrows her eyes. Something is coming. Something is definitely coming.
Eli hears it, too. He lets out a brief chuckle as even more black mist starts to emanate from his Unliving body. His dark aura is strong, powerful.
The 2 Shadows exchange a brief glance before readying themselves. The other 4 take up their respective positions and wait.
Agent Mike looks ahead and squints. The cars in front of him slow down a bit. He puts his hand to his earpiece and inquires, "What's the hold up? We're in the clear--"
Just then, the frontmost car of the convoy is literally flipped over by something fast and unseen. The occupants are dead before they can even react to the sudden crushing impact.
Agent Mike's eyes go wide and he gasps. He pulls out his pistol and covers Luciano Junior with his own body.
"GET DOWN!" he yells.
The rest of the cars are flipped and mangled in a similar manner. Dona, making use of her Potence Discipline, effortlessly flips armored SUV after armored SUV like someone were flipping pancakes or pizzas.
Eli uses his Oblivion Discipline to shroud all of the woefully unprepared security personnel. He makes sure that they cannot see a single thing. It's all darkness. Utter darkness.
A few survivors scramble out of their vehicles and pull out their weapons. The other 4 Turncoats get busy. Slashes and stabs galore. There are screams and sounds of gurgling, coughing, and choking.
A few errant gunshots ring out, but it's no use. The darkness is so thick that even their bullets are swallowed up by the all-consuming void.
Adding insult to greater injury, when an FBI agent attempts to call for backup, her digital device fizzes, conks out, and stops working. She bangs it and curses under her breath.
She is then cut down by a well-placed slash from another Lasombra's claws. She screams as she is slashed across the face...repeatedly. Screeches emerge from 1 of the Israeli Lasombra's mouth as he viciously assaults the downed FBI agent.
Luciano Junior is cowering in the backseat of this the SUV. Dona falls back and soaks up some gunfire. Eli rushes to her aid and slices a few Feds up with his sword.
He grins and cackles as he kills. His fellow Lasombra are doing a fine job of dispatching everyone else. Dona takes a moment to refill her dwindling Vitae (who'd have thunk that overturning big-ass SUVs would be so...draining).
She sinks her pointy fangs into a bewildered and struggling FBI agent's neck. He tries to fight back but his strength is quickly sapped from him, as is his lifeforce.
Dona discards the drained corpse, wipes the dripping blood off of her lips, and moves on.
The rest of the Lasombra continue to get rid of the few staggering agents who put up something resembling a fight. They didn't expect to be hit by vamps.
Dona overturns the vehicle in front of where Agent Mike, LDJ, and the driver are currently hiding. Luciano Junior shrieks in terror. Agent Mike flinches and holds his gun tighter.
The driver puts the SUV in reverse and prepares to peel out while Agent Mike frantically orders, "Route 1 compromised! Moving to secondary--"
The SUV jerks and abruptly halts. Dona- all by her strong lonesome- is holding onto the hood of this vehicle, preventing it from getting away. She tightly grits her teeth like a maniac and holds on.
She channels extra Blood into her Potence Discipline and begins to lift the car a few inches off of the ground. The tires keep spinning and squealing. She's getting angrier and angrier. The veins in her neck bulge.
Agent Mike rolls down a window and shoots at her. His shots miss but Dona gets the hint. He immediately rolls the window back up and tells Luciano Junior to brace himself.
After some more grunting, Dona completely overturns the car, leaving the occupants all stunned, dazed, and utterly confused.
Eli grabs a random agent and bites him in the neck. He sucks him dry and plunges his sword deep into the man's chest. A few others open fire on him, but it's no use as they are jumped and slashed by the other Lasombra.
The last few survivors are all too weak to put up much of a fight. Their deaths are mercifully quick. A few even beg for their lives, but there will be no mercy for them.
Eli chuckles and saunters over to the turned-over SUV. He's twirling his sword and stroking his ducktail beard. There's a smug, self-assured look on his face.
Dona begins to punch the bulletproof glass. Mike sees her and gulps deeply. He makes sure to shield Luciano Junior with his body.
He says to the son of the Lasombra Fledgling, "Stay behind me! STAY BEHIND ME!"
The driver in the front is pinned and he's panicking. The passenger side door has been all but crushed by Dona's incredible display of Potence.
Eli paces around and fakes a yawn, "Any day now, Dona."
Dona grunts and keeps on punching the bulletproof glass, but it is yet to shatter. The driver, seeing no other way out of this mess, tries to radio for help. He bangs on the digital radio and curses under his breath.
No signal. None whatsoever.
Agent Mike reassures LDJ, "Don't--don't worry. This--it's bulletproof--"
Luciano Jr. desperately cries out, "IS IT FUCKIN' PUNCH-PROOF! WHAT IS SHE DOING!"
Agent Mike takes a few deep breaths, trying to remain composed under pressure, "I--I don't know, sir." He looks at the dead FBI agents splayed all over the road and grimaces.
The driver in the front keeps on trying to call for some backup. Even his little Nokia phone seems to be malfunctioning.
Agent Mike is not taking this very well. His eyes are darting around and he's sweating bullets. He frenetically calls out to the driver, "HEY! HEY! Have--have you managed to get through?"
The driver shakes his head and sighs deeply, "No, sir. There's no signal! I--I keep trying--"
Dona rams her balled-up fists into the bulletproof glass repeatedly. She's getting real sick and tired of this. Her face is contorted into a snarl, and her bloody fangs are fully visible, glistening in the faint light.
Agent Mike tells the driver, "Keep--keep trying. We'll be fine. Do--don't worry, Mister Donovan. We'll keep you safe. Backup is..." he trails off and stares at the insanely strong Lasombra lady who's punching the bulletproof glass like it owes her a ton of dough.
The other Lasombra shuffle about the place and admire their gruesome handiwork. Eli taunts his fellow Shadow, "Getting weaker, huh? What would you your Sire say if she saw you--"
Dona lets out a guttural scream and continues punching away, but she's barely able to put a single crack in the glass.
Agent Mike is starting to freak out a bit. Luciano Junior shrieks and clutches his own head, "I DON'T WANNA FUCKIN' DIE IN HERE!"
Agent Mike breathes in and out, "What--what is she hoping to achieve by--by hitting the window like that?"
Eli laughs loudly, "I don't know! Let's ask her!"
Agent Mike's face contorts into a look of pure confusion as he glares daggers at the maniacal Lasombra.
The driver keeps on banging on the radio. He tries his phone again. It's still dead. The Nokia phone won't budge, like, at all.
Agent Mike taps his earpiece and frantically shouts, "Sierra-November! ANYBODY! COME IN?! Is anyone out there? Pick up, dammit!"
Another Lasombra speaks into the earpiece, his voice a tad muffled, "BOO! We're coming for you, little scared puppy. You're next!"
The sound of a deep, grated laugh sends chills down Agent Mike's spine. Luciano Junior tries to hold his shit together.
He cries out, "DON'T LET THEM GET ME! GET OUT THERE AND SHOOT THEM, MIKE!"
The ground beneath rumbles as Dona keeps on punching away. The cracks are beginning to form, but not fast enough. Eli smirks and paces around the turned-over SUV.
He flatly muses, "Ripping the roof off is also an option...y'know..."
While mashing away, Dona snarls at him, "That takes more--ugh--effort--ughrhg! WHY. WON'T. YOU. BREAK?! RRRRRARGH!" she draws her clenched fist all the way back and slams it into the bulletproof glass.
A small and subtle crack finally forms. The driver sees this and gasps. He looks at Agent Mike with widened eyes. He keeps on trying to get some semblance of a signal so the higher-ups can be informed and send reinforcements.
But alas, it's no use.
Agent Mike bites his lip and takes a few deep breaths. Luciano Junior keeps asking him to go out there and shoot these fuckers.
Agent Mike grips LDJ, shakes him a few times, and tells him to shut up. He keeps his gun aimed at the cracked window.
Eli chuckles, "I can smell...3 bodies in there. 2 for the taking. The other one is the Kine that we are to deliver to the Fledgling- unharmed."
Dona grunts and keeps punching away. With her Potence nearing its limits, she pulls her fist all the way back and punches as hard as she possibly can. A few more tiny cracks form.
The 4 Israeli Lasombra start to get impatient. They ask what's going on and demand to make an exit. Eli orders them to lend a hand, but their Potence Levels are nowhere near as high as Dona's.
Dona keeps on punching away. She's almost there. She can feel it. Some bloody sweat trickles down her forehead. Her still heart begins to act up, and she even forces a few breaths into (and out of) her body.
She screams out in agony and keeps mashing the cracked glass. The others watch on, arms folded indifferently. Eli is the only one who paces around and tauntingly twirls his blood-slicked wakizashi sword about.
The driver keeps on trying his radio, phone, and anything else that might be of use. Agent Mike frantically looks around, but there's really no way out of this mess.
Dona takes a brief breather before rearing her fist back and slamming it into the cracked glass as hard as she can.
Eli faintly chuckles, "You need Blood...I can feel it."
Dona has certainly consumed quite a bit of Vitae. She can sense her Beast rousing within her, threatening to drive her into a maddening Frenzy. She holds onto it with all her strength and focuses on the task at hand.
Agent Mike and Luciano Junior remain silent in the backseat. Words fail to translate what they're feeling and processing right now. This is a terrifying and harrowing moment for both of them.
The driver in the front is shaking and practically crying. He bangs the digital radio and frantically tells his boss to pick up. His voice is quivering like he's got a bad case of the shaky shakes.
After landing yet another fruitless punch, Dona stumbles backward and groans. Her face contorts into an expression of pure rage. Her eyes are locked onto the cracked glass, and her fangs are fully visible.
Eli glares at her like she's a failure and shakes his head disapprovingly, "Tsk, tsk, tsk. And here I thought that the woman who once punched a big fucking hole through a concrete wall would do better."
Dona growls, "Fuck you, Eli! I've had enough of your shit! You--you wanna give it a go, be my guest!"
Eli channels some of his Oblivion mist and directs it towards the small cracks that Dona's knuckles have been able to produce. With some deft guidance, he's able to get some of that shadowy black mist into the cracks of the bulletproof glass.
It's slow going, but he's getting somewhere. He tells the other Lasombra, "I'm gonna need you guys to cover the exits. There's 3 Kine in there- 2 are your happy meals, the other belongs to the Fledgling and we're under STRICT instructions to bring his ass in ALIVE."
Dona hobbles over to a few corpses and drains them of what blood remains. She feels her Potence Discipline replenishing and her Hunger quieting.
Eli snickers, "So eager to fill your belly. Hmph."
Dona bites into another limp wrist and gets a few more mouthfuls. Her Beast has subsided. She marches back over to the SUV, draws her fist back, and punches the window again.
Eli winces and aids her by filling the car with his shadowy mist. It's thick, heavy, and very difficult to see through. The occupants can't see a single thing.
Luciano Jr. foolishly unbuckles his seatbelt. In the overturned car, his head hits the roof with a thud. Agent Mike notices this and gasps.
He yells at him, "Stay--stay still! DAMMIT!"
Agent Mike blinks and tries to swat the encroaching shadows away with his free hand. He curses under his breath and tells Luciano Junior to keep still.
Thanks to the Oblivion, the cracks somehow widen. The window itself begins to grow weaker and weaker. Dona's punches get harder and harder.
Luciano Junior loudly asks, "WHAT'S GOING ON?! WHAT IS THAT THING DOING!?"
The glass grows brittle to the point where Dona's fists start to smash through.
Agent Mike is starting to freak out. His breathing becomes erratic and his grip on his pistol tightens. He steadies his aim and prepares to open fire the second the glass shatters.
He orders LDJ, "Sir! I'm gonna need you to look away! And when you both get the chance, I want you to RUN as fast you can, got it?"
The driver weakly nods and pulls out a peashooter from the glove compartment. He checks the mags and swallows the lump in his throat.
Agent Mike tells him, "You need to find a way to get us some backup, alright?"
Dona viciously snarls and keeps on hitting the glass. She's almost through. She's so close to breaking the window. It's growing more and more fragile by the second.
Eli's Oblivion mist turns into a full-on fog that obscures the occupants' vision. The shadows swirl around the car in a menacing fashion, and the cracks continue to grow wider.
The driver complains, "I can't see shit!" he begins coughing, like someone tossed a tear gas grenade in here or something.
Agent Mike looks at Luciano Junior and tells him, "When I tell you to go, you run like hell, OK?"
LDJ wordlessly nods, the terror on his face quite visible. Agent Mike takes a deep breath and keeps his finger on the trigger. He waits for the opportune moment to open fire on these vampires.
Ah, he's already dead.
With a final pulling back of her fist, Dona finally breaks through the glass. Agent Mike fires a few shots in the direction of the Lasombra. As the shards of glass fly literally everywhere, Luciano Junior and the driver bolt out of the car.
Eli yanks Agent Mike out and absolutely dismembers the mortal with his sword. He grins as the man's dismembered body parts scatter all over the road.
The driver is pounced on by the Israelis and torn to shreds, his screams falling upon deaf ears. Luciano Junior dashes away and runs for his life.
Dona quickly leaps on top of the overturned vehicle, shrieks, and pounces on the fleeing mortal. He falls over and struggles against her preternatural grip. He kicks, screams, and cries. He begs for mercy and says that he'll do whatever she wants him to do.
Dona subdues him. Before she's about to give him a K/O, Eli holds her back and reminds her of the fact that she might just end up punching a hole straight through this mortal's face.
She stops herself and looks up at Eli. He looks down on LDJ, brings his foot up, and stomps on his head with only a portion of his vampiric might. It doesn't kill him, but he's definitely concussed and seeing stars now.
Dona snickers, "So much for not making a hole in his head, huh? Now, there's a nasty boot print on his face."
Eli rolls his eyes and tells her to grab the guy. Dona tosses him over her shoulder and carries him off, following the other Lasombra towards an unassuming white van that's parked a few yards away.
Eli drives and tells her, "The Fledgling never said we had to bring him in mint condition, heh."
The Israelis remain mostly silent and talk amongst each other, all hush-hush like. Dona and Eli sit in the front while LDJ has been bound and gagged with ropes for added measure.
Eli drives down at a fairly leisurely pace. He doesn't want to risk attracting any unnecessary attention. How very considerate of him.
Dona stares at her surroundings, "So...this dump gonna be our new stomping grounds from now on, huh?"
Eli sighs and takes a sharp turn when the traffic light turns green, "Why? Did the Sabbat give us anything better other than backwater shitholes and Native American reservations?"
Dona scowls and wistfully stares out the window, "At least Vegas was pretty."
Eli chuckles, "Mm-hmm. But casinos weren't exactly ideal hunting grounds for...those of our Clan. Remember that time the slot machines started acting funny when you were nearby?"
Dona sighs and stares back at Luciano Junior, who's still out cold. The Israelis stare back at her, their dead eyes locked onto her.
1 of them speaks to her in Aramaic. She can't understand a thing. So, she merely nods and musters up a half-smile.
Eli keeps his hands on the steering wheel and his foot on the accelerator. He makes sure to stay well within the bounds of the prescribed speed limit so as not to rouse any suspicion.
He flatly asks, "You're not Hungry, are you?"
Dona shakes her head, "Nah. You?"
"Could use a bag. Impressions of this Domain so far?"
"It's a dump."
Eli heartily chuckles and drives on till he gets to the mansion of Luciano Donovan Senior. Time for a father-son reunion.
And a sendoff...
The Lasombra Fledgling is pacing around his wide and spacious living room. With each step he takes, his shoe clacks against the marble floor. He is currently biting on the tip of his thumb and musing over certain things.
It isn't long before a large white van pulls up to the front of this opulent mansion. A few seconds later, Dona, Eli, and the other Israeli Lasombra come in carrying Luciano Junior over their shoulders.
Luciano Senior grimaces in disgust and waves them off, "Not in here! There's a shed nearby. Bring that idiot over there. And not a step further! I just had these floors polished and I'm NOT having you track dirt in here, got it?"
The other Shadows all roll their eyes but obey. After all, it's Luciano Senior's Haven and his rules apply here. No exceptions, broadly speaking.
The Lasombra Fledgling is waiting for them in the shed. He tells his subordinates to get going and leave him alone with his son. A stern talking-to lies ahead.
However, he does order that the ropes stay firmly bound around the young man's wrists and ankles. Just in case.
Luciano Sr. sits his son down on a wooden chair and slaps him awake. The shed is not very well-lit. The ground is hard and there are no windows to speak of. In the corner stands an old, rusty, and dilapidated fridge.
The walls are a tad moldy. Luciano Sr. looks around and says to himself, "Yeah, I'll have it done over...later."
He slaps his son across the face and orders him to wake up. LDJ is slowly regaining consciousness. His head spins like a top and he's still seeing stars.
Luciano Sr. grips him by the shirt collar and growls in his ear, "You piece of shit, wake up!"
Luciano Jr. blinks rapidly and shakes his head. He mutters something incoherent, but his father quickly slaps him awake and berates him for his foolishness.
The other Lasombra are told to wait outside. Dona and Eli fold their arms and lean against the wall while the Israelis mill about and look bored.
After a while, Luciano Jr. fully awakens. He looks around the shed, an odd feeling of familiarity washing over him. He knows this place. He's been here before.
Many times, when he was a lot younger. It was usually to bring the catch of the week for a bit of making out. He blinks and shakes his head. A searing pain shoots through his temples.
Luciano Sr. snarls at his offspring and shoves his thumb into his cheek, "Do you realize how much you've cost me?! DO YOU?!"
Luciano Jr. squirms and tries to push him off. He incredulously asks, "DAD! Where--where the fuck have you been, huh? Gordon said--"
The Donovan patriarch backhands his son, "Shut up. Enough about Gordon Pym. By the way, he told me...everything. You thought that my absence was a license for you to run loose, huh? Hmph, well you're in for a surprise, kid."
Luciano Jr. still sways and staggers about. He's barely able to hold himself steady on the chair.
He asks his father, "Dad...dad...what's going on here? I--the FBI--"
The Lasombra Fledgling grits his teeth and sternly interrupts, "Oh, I know. I know. But this isn't a rescue, it's...a sendoff. Consider this my last and final parting gift to you, you worthless runt."
Luciano Junior's lower lip quivers and he's still trying to process what's going on. His mind is still foggy, and it's only now that he realizes that he's tied up to a chair.
He struggles and weakly groans as he tries to break free. He's unable to, of course.
His father takes a deep breath and tells him, "I never should've let you out of my sight...not even for a second. But I trusted you. I ignored that little nagging voice in my head. Y'know, that little nag that told me that you- like your goddamn useless sisters- would all amount to nothing but failures and disgraces?"
Luciano Jr. continues to squirm and struggle against his restraints. His father looks down on him with contempt and disdain.
LDJ pleads, "Dad, dad! Y--you're alive! Th--that's cool! I was so worried--"
The vampire swiftly backhands his boy and scoffs, "Fuck your concerns, you lying sack of shit. You were elated, dare I say relieved, that I was out of the picture. Weren't you?"
Luciano Junior's cheek stings. He can't believe this is happening. He's starting to think that he's just dreaming or something.
"ANSWER ME!"
LDJ blinks and shakes his head a few times. He's still desperately trying to break free from these ropes. He looks up at his father with pleading eyes, "I--I--I dunno what you want me to say, pops!"
The Lasombra Fledgling stifles a groan, "Hmph. Surprising. A big mouth like you suddenly goes all silent like a mouse. Tell me something...son, how does it feel to be a goddamn failure, hmm?"
"Wha...? Wh--I...I was making mad money when you was gone!"
"Oh, I'm sure you were. I saw some interview you recently did with the Flimont Times. Calling it mediocre would be an insult to mediocre itself."
"Dad! What the fuck is up with you?! I mean, I'm glad you're alive, but--"
Luciano Senior delivers another backhand slap. This one's so hard that it knocks the chair over. Luciano Junior lands face-first onto the dirty floor.
The Shadow glowers at his offspring, "You goddamned waste of time, space, potential, and money! I gave you EVERY-FUCKING-THING that you needed to succeed in this world, everything that you needed to make it your bitch...and what do you do? You fuck it up! You fuck it up like the worthless piece of shit that you are!"
Luciano Junior starts to cry a little. Hearing his own papa berate him like this is a bit too much for him to take. He feels ashamed and embarrassed. And confused as all Gehenna.
Luciano Senior puts his foot down on his kid's neck and growls, "Crying, huh? Like the little worthless pissant that you are and have ALWAYS been! I should've had your mother killed the second you slithered out of her vagina...waiting was a mistake on my part!"
He grumbles and groans, "And yet, I still made sure that you were clothed and fed. Despite all that bitch mother of yours tried to do, I still made sure that you were properly educated, too. I made sure that you got to the best schools and tutors that money could buy."
He points to himself and empathically says, "MY MONEY! Not hers! She was just another starving artist, and our family doesn't need another starving artist."
Luciano Junior wheezes, "Wha--what do you mean you should--should have had her--her--mom killed sooner--?"
The Lasombra Fledgling lets out a deep and disturbing chuckle. With outstretched arms, he confesses, boasts, and brags about how he had Jennifer Hearst killed when she planned on taking custody of Luciano Junior.
"I wasn't gonna let that bitch take you- my legacy- away from me. Gordon knew all about it, by the way. He never told you, did he. Good. Going forward, that man is going to learn how to keep his mouth sealed tighter than a vault."
Luciano Jr. blinks a few times. The news of his mother's murder comes as a shock to him.
Luciano Senior sets the chair up and glowers into the fear-ridden eyes of his mortal son, "You're not worth the Donovan family name. Even your sisters have more balls than you. You're a disgrace--"
The tears keep flowing down Luciano Junior's face, "You...you...killed mom?"
"'Course I did. She thought that she could take you away from me. Name 1 thing, 1 fucking thing that woman ever did for you, bought for you, or put on your plate other than those goddamn fucking paintings of hers!"
"You...you monster! SCREW YOU! HOW DARE--"
This time, Luciano Senior's backhand slap draws some blood. He glares at his boy and shakes his head disapprovingly, "You're in no position to be calling anyone names, boy. All you had to do was to make use of the tools that I had placed into your little palms. But what did you do instead?"
Luciano Junior tries to retort, "I--I did...everything like you taught me...what...what more could you WANT FROM ME!?"
The Lasombra Fledgling lifts his chin and paces around the shed, "Hmph. That's where you're wrong, kid. You didn't do it the way I taught you. You took shortcuts, you messed up bigtime, and now you're gonna pay for it. As am I."
"Dad, what are you--"
"When I was in Israel, things...happened to me. I'm not gonna waste a second on explaining every single detail. Suffice it to say that the Israelis that I went with? They did something to me...and they want something in return."
The Shadow continues pacing around, "It's nothing personal, kid. It was either you or all of my wealth. And I worked pretty goddamn hard to get to where I am."
Luciano Junior's vision is blurry. He feels like he's going to throw up. His mind is reeling.
Immortal papa bear, on the other hand, is as smug and arrogant as ever, "If only you could see the look on your face...priceless! Oh well, enough about all of that."
Luciano Jr. lamely asks, "What are you gonna do to me now, h--huh?"
"Honestly? I don't know. And I don't really care. If you were actually worthy of the Donovan legacy, I'd have considered Embracing you, but heh, that's not going to happen. Shame."
"..."
The Lasombra Fledgling blows a raspberry, "As for your...siblings, I'll have to rectify those particular mistakes as time goes on. They're all varying degrees of screw-up, so I can't really compare them to you. In terms of sheer potential, you're nothing compared to them."
"I--I was on my way to--"
The Donovan patriarch holds up his hand, "Yeah, yeah, I know. New Orleans. I don't even wanna know what possessed you to go there in the first place. Don't you have everything right here in good ol' F-City, huh? Fucking New Orleans. Tch, the thought of it makes me sick!"
Luciano Senior shakes his head and grumbles, "At least, that's what Gordon told me. Forget about him for a moment. Do you remember what I had to drill in your head from the time you were old enough to form words?"
LDJ looks down at his shoes and solemnly nods. He knows what his father is talking about.
"Well? ANSWER ME, you worthless pissant!"
Luciano Junior gulps deeply, "We...we're Donovans. And--and that means we're special. It means...it means...it means...we're better than everybody else."
The Shadow sniffs and nods curtly, "Exactly. And you...are no longer a Donovan. Going forward, my legacy shall be entrusted to others. Worthier, stronger, and smarter individuals."
Luciano Junior looks up at his father with tears still staining his cheeks. He is at a complete and total loss for words. Even his whimpers are rendered mute. He can feel himself dying on the inside. The weight of these words hits him like a ton of heavy bricks.
Luciano Senior gruffly asks, "And what's this I hear about you getting all tangled up with the SEC, huh? You fucking failure of a man! Gordon told me everything. You and your Asian buddy have been busy in my absence, hmm?"
Luciano Junior weakly nods, "I was making mad money. You wouldn't believe--"
"Oh, shut your piehole already! It's over, it's done. Your fate is sealed! Your desperate attempts at justifying yourself are pointless!"
He grips the sides of his son's head and screams into his face, "POINTLESS! DO YOU HEAR ME?! POINTLESS!"
Luciano Junior sneers, "Then just kill me and get it over with...you're a fuckin' monster! Mom was right--right about you! She said that you were like a poison cloud- everything or everyone you came near ends up dying! I'm not gonna be like you, old man! I'm not! I won't!"
Luciano Senior is momentarily stunned by that. He regains his composure, "She said that about me, huh? Hm. All the more reason why I had to have her bumped off. I wasn't gonna let that woman smother the fire of greatness in my boy. Too much mother love softens a man, y'know?"
Luciano Senior takes a deep breath, "You're a disgrace, a failure, and 1 mistake...among many. But I've been given a new lease on life; I've got the power to...address those indiscretions of my youth. That's what I'm doing now. Addressing them."
"..."
"And, when I've washed my hands off you...I'll be addressing your siblings, too. They won't be getting any place in...in...my new family. None of them are worthy of the Donovan name."
Luciano Junior scowls, "You're insane! INSANE!"
Luciano Senior chuckles, "Maybe I am. After all, genius is often mistaken for insanity by the...little people." The venom in his voice when mentioning the "little people" is palpable. It drips like thick molasses from his lips.
The Lasombra Fledgling takes a deep breath, "But hey, it's all a part and parcel of being special, of having great genes, and being born to greatness itself. Over the decades, I have wasted my seed on so many women. Ah, well..." he trails off for a moment.
Luciano Sr. stares at the wall behind his son and continues, "Your siblings, though, they're all from different mothers. But you already knew that. I'll have to have those old hags killed, too. Huh. Gordon's gonna be busy in these coming...nights."
Luciano Jr. stammers, "Go--Gordon knew about mom?"
"'Course he did. The fact that he didn't get any funny ideas and spill the beans to you is only proof that I chose the right man for the job. I have my own plans for that man..."
The mortal offspring of the vampire breaks down into tears, his sobbing filling up the whole shed. His father stares down at him and shakes his head in sheer disgust.
Eli is outside. He holds his wakizashi sword up against the moonlight and inspects it with a narrowed eye, "Never heard a grown-ass man cry so much. Jeez."
Dona wipes her sunglasses on her trenchcoat, puts it back on, and replies, "What's the holdup anyways? And who exactly are those 4 freaks?" she points to the 4 Israeli Lasombra who remain motionless as statues.
Eli shrugs, "I dunno. All I know is that those cool cats are our Blood. Orders were to work with 'em. We did well enough tonight, don't ya think?"
Dona dryly concedes, "Mm-hmm. But I'm feeling kinda nostalgic for our old Coterie."
Eli dismissively waves his hand, "Fuck the Sabbat. We're Camarilla now. No use dwelling on the past. Besides, the writing's on the wall, anyways. Remind me, who was it that put us up to this whole task of negotiating a place into the Ivory Tower?"
Dona sighs, "Some Elder named Simon. Heh, I guess he saw all his buddies getting staked and delivered to the Camarilla, so he decided to switch sides."
Eli sniffs, "Yeah...Simon. What a creep, huh? That voice, I swear to God..."
"Hmph--" Dona's train of thought is interrupted by yet another screeching cry from Luciano Junior.
Eli grimaces, "Jesus. What'd that kid ever do to deserve that, huh?"
Dona scratches her scarred nose, "He fucked up big time. And us Lasombra don't accept shit like that. Survival of the fittest. We can be strict like that."
"Hmmm."
Dona grumbles, "Besides, the old guy has some more stuff that we gotta do for him."
"What, like, more hit jobs?"
"We'll find out once he's done growling and yapping at that kid of his. Damn."
Eli puts away his wakizashi and folds his arms, "Well, whatever happens...happens. But I'm a Camarilla player now, baby."
Dona remains skeptical, "Uh-huh. And by the year...2010, you'll be saying that you're an Anarch. Heh."
Eli snorts, "Very funny."
Immortal papa bear repeatedly berates his biological son. It goes on for a few more minutes than necessary. The 6 Lasombra waiting outside start to get a bit bored. Eli and Dona keep their distance away from those 4 Israelis who seem to be staring at them.
When he's had enough, Luciano Senior turns around and orders his fellow Shadows to come inside. Dona and Eli are the last to enter.
Luciano Junior is now on the ground, a bit of blood trailing from his mouth. His wrists and ankles are still tied firmly together, but he's not struggling. He's given up.
The Lasombra Fledgling tells them, "Alright, we're done here. Take this sack of mistakes outta my sight."
From amongst the Israelis, a short man with tan leathery skin steps forward. He takes a knee and inspects Luciano Junior's face. He nods and says something in Hebrew to the others. They pick up Luciano Junior and prepare to head out.
The Donovan patriarch firmly reminds the Israelis, "Make sure that my Sire gets him. I don't wanna know what you do to him. I don't care. As far as I'm concerned, I never had a son with a starving artist named Jennifer Hearst."
The Israelis grunt in unison. The tan-skinned one barks another order and they all leave the shed, carrying LDJ's limp body in their arms.
1 of them turns around and tells him, "Once we have landed, your...assets shall be returned to you. As agreed, yes?"
Luciano Sr. nods and waves his hand dismissively, "Yeah, yeah. Just go already, please. Get that sack of shit outta my goddamn sight."
The Israeli nods curtly and exits the shed. LDJ's thigh is jabbed with a needle and he falls unconscious. Dona and Eli both look away from the sight, while the Israelis are all unfazed by it.
And that is...essentially how the story of Luciano Donovan Junior comes to an end. Knowing how depraved the Israelis are (not because they're Lasombra, mind you) he probably would've preferred to die back in his father's shed.
They're practically going to torture him to death. Or subject him to fates far worse than mere death.
Luciano Senior grimaces at how grimy his hands have gotten. He walks out of the shed, looks up into the night sky, and breathes in the somewhat cool air.
Dona clears her throat, "Ahem..."
Eli nudges her and shoots her a stern glare.
The Lasombra Fledgling growls, "I needed to get my head cleared. This was...painful, tough, and...and...a little bit of a relief. I'd like to think that it was all worth it, but...hm. Never mind. So, you 2 better get me up to speed about the Kindred situation in this city."
The trio do just that. Eli and Dona each take turns bringing the old gremlin up to speed about who's been ruling over this Domain for the past 100 years. Now that the Lasombra want in, they'd like to be aware of what they can expect when it comes to the other powers vying for control over this Domain.
The plot against Prince Antonio is brought up during the course of the conversation. Luciano Senior is mildly intrigued by this, but his fellow Turncoats wish to throw their full support behind the Ventrue Prince.
Eli tells him, "It's only wise for us to side with the people who are willing to play ball with us. From the way I see it, that plan against the Prince hasn't a snowball's chance in hell. They'll be dealt with soon enough."
Dona chimes in, "Yeah, it's just a patchwork of plans, anyway. They won't get anywhere, trust me."
The Lasombra Fledgling scratches his chin and says, "Hmph. I still want to know more about this plan...it's always good to keep our options open. Call me a pragmatist, if nothing else."
The talk goes on, with a lot of back and forth between these 3 Lasombra. There's some arguing, too, but it's not anything that gets too out of hand.
Luciano Senior is yet to present himself to Prince Antonio Black. He figures that he'll do that some other time. Tonight, from his point of view, has been taxing enough.
The other 2 quickly take their leave and head back into town. Even the Israelis are long gone by now. LDJ's fate is finally sealed.
Luciano Senior forces a deep breath and looks around the vastness of his Haven, "At least 1 disappointment is taken care of. Hmmm. This is my place. MY city. Once I get my stuff back...oh marone, I'll be--I'll be unstoppable. And busy, busy, busy..."
He licks his lips and grins to himself. He chuckles lowly, "They don't stand a chance. None of them do. I was born for this, I was made for this. Where my seed failed, my Childer- my Blood- shall succeed. And they better, oh they better."
Oh, dear. This does not bode well for the future, like, at all.
At the Sacred Heart Hospital...
Markham Reed is in a rather dull and small office of the doctor, who is patiently explaining what further steps can be taken in regard to Rhonda's condition.
She woke up quite recently, but she remains completely non-responsive, in a vegetative state. The doctor tells the Baali that there isn't much more that can be done.
The doctor's voice is a bit monotonous as she says, "Your friend is going to need full, round-the-clock care, Mr. Reed. There's a specialized care home in the next county over. It's called 'StarCare'. We can have her transferred over at the soonest."
She reaches into her drawer and hands the SEC Enforcement Investigator a brochure for StarCare. It's definitely on the pricier side of things, but it's got good ratings and high standards.
The doctor tells him, "We're not really set up to handle cases like this here at Sacred Heart. I'm sorry. The err...last round of budget cuts has done a number on our more specialized departments." The despair in her voice is subtle, but it's there.
The Baali nods understandingly and closes the brochure, "It's alright, I get it. Do you...can you guarantee that Rhonda will be taken care of?"
The doc flatly tells the vamp, "StarCare has been in the business since the 1970s. It's as good as it gets. They're not cheap, though. And they do expect full payment in advance."
Markham sighs and leans back against his chair, "I understand. I'll...uh...yeah, I can make the full payment, no problem."
The doctor lady repeats herself, "She's going to need specialized care for the rest of her life, Mr. Reed. We did everything that we could to save her life--"
Markham holds up a hand, "I know, I know. And thank you. Can...when I speak to her, can she understand what I'm saying?"
He cannot get that image of a wide-eyed Rhonda staring emptily at the ceiling out of his mind. The doctor lady sadly shakes her head, "We don't know for sure. The brain damage and paralysis have impaired nearly all of her higher functions, but there's still hope. Maybe some of your words can reach her on some level."
Markham sighs deeply, "And she's gonna need that wheelchair forever, right? How much?"
The doc feels a tad uncomfortable, "I'll have somebody else go over the prices with you. I really have to...get going. And once again, I am truly sorry about all of this."
Markham stands up and extends his cold hand, "Thank you for everything."
The doctor shivers a bit when they shake hands, "O--Oh, sure thing." She smiles weakly, "Um...I'll call you if anything comes up, OK?"
"Hm." From there, the Baali departs the tiny and gloomy office of the mortal doctor and makes his way to where poor Rhonda is. Diego is here, mainly for moral support, if nothing else.
He's keeping watch over her. When Markham returns, the Gangrel springs up from his seat and asks, "So, how'd it go? What'd the doc say?"
Markham dryly hands the brochure for StarCare over to his friend and explains, "A private care facility of some kind- this hospital's not equipped to handle her condition." He turns to Rhonda, who's now lying on her side and snoring lightly.
The Feral points out, "She started dozing off a few minutes back. When she awake, she had this spaced-out look on her face, homes. And she was barely able to speak. All she did was whimper and groan, man."
Markham nods and takes a seat beside his Touchstone's bed. He stares intently at Rhonda's face for a few seconds and sighs deeply. His cold hand gently strokes her hair as she sleeps.
Diego looks on and says, "This shit sucks, huh? Nice chica like her has her entire life cut short and robbed because some rich, coke-blasted pendejo drove around like maniac and--and ran her over with his fancy-ass car." He shakes his head in disgust and scoffs bitterly.
Markham blinks, "It's over now, Diego. Paul...won't be able to hurt anybody anymore."
Diego queries, "What about that other buster, hmm? His best pal? I know after what happened you weren't in any frame of mind to deal with it and all, but you still got an investigation to carry out, hermano."
The Baali rubs the base of his neck, "Hmph. Yeah. You're right, Diego. After what happened with Rhonda, I just couldn't bring myself to do it."
Diego crosses his arms, "So, you gonna get back to your thing? Any news from that Malkavian chica yet?"
Markham clicks his tongue, "Nope. Nothing. I keep trying her number and I keep getting that 'This phone is not in service' message."
Diego nods slowly and sits back down, "What's your next move, homes? You gonna go after Luciano Junior?"
Heh. What Markham didn't know was that the primary subject of his investigation was now going to be taken back to Israel to be slowly tortured to death.
It is highly likely that he'll never, EVER know of this. Ever.
Markham rubs his face with his hands, "I dunno, Diego. I just--I feel so stuck, so frustrated right now. It's like, what I did to Paul wasn't enough. I--I don't feel right talking about what I did to him. And no, it doesn't give me any goddamn closure. Nothing does..." he trails off and sighs heavily.
The Gangrel comes over, pats his buddy's back, and tells him, "We'll get through this, Markham. A vato like you didn't come this far just to have it all crumbling down."
The Baali stands up, checks his watch, and says, "We should get going. I need to...make a call to someone. As much as I hate to admit it, I don't know where else- or who else- to turn to at this point."
Diego shrugs, "If you say so, homes. And you wanna check out this fancy-looking care home, too?"
"Another time, Diego..."
Rhonda McMichaels is going to need full-time care for the rest of her life, after all. Paralyzed, wheelchair-bound, lacking in finer motor functions, and unable to speak properly...she's not going to have an easy time of things.
She didn't deserve this. Nobody does. And Paul Cho being fed to a cosmic appetite does very little to make this any less depressing.
Markham was simply too disoriented by all of it to bother with Mauve Lilac's whole thing. That, in turn, was an ample opportunity for the God-Machine to assimilate the Malkavian into itself.
Madeline Stephenson's absence is already being felt, but nobody's been able to locate her so far. And all that remains of her Haven are ashes.
As Markham and Diego are driving down the dark roads of F-City, the former reaches into his pocket and fishes out a friendship bracelet that the Malk had handed to him some time ago.
He turns it around in his fingers and mumbles, "Goddammit, Mauve. Where the hell are you???"
Diego quickly glances at his pal before refocusing his attention on the road ahead, "Don't worry, hombre. She'll come around. But if she doesn't, you still got everything that you need to bust Luciano Junior, right?"
Markham weakly nods, "Sort of, yeah. I could build a strong enough case, but my superiors at the SEC have a...higher threshold when it comes to going after guys of...his standing."
Diego shrugs, "Oh, well. So, who you gonna call for backup, hmm?"
"My close friend and somebody whom I see as a...a...Touchstone. Her name's Jamie Pollux. I'm still not so sure about involving her in all of this, but my choices are kinda limited at the moment."
"And if your friend's too busy with her own stuff?"
Markham pulls out his cellphone and begins dialing a number, "Then she's too busy with her own stuff. It never hurts to ask, y'know?"
Diego smiles a little, "It never does, it never does."
Markham leaves his work bestie a message after the beeping bop sound and tells her to call him back as soon as she gets this. The heaviness in his voice is unmistakable. He then hangs up.
Diego looks over at his friend again and asks, "Hey, so...after you wrap up with this case, promise to keep in-touch, right?"
"Sure. And...I hate imposing on you, but you a--and Marisol wouldn't mind checking up on Rhonda once she's all settled in at the care home, right?"
Diego shrugs, "No problem, homes. Of all the people I've come across in both life and Unlife, you've got to be the one that I like the most. You've got integrity, you're a real one, amigo."
Markham smirks, "Oh, come on..." he chuckles softly. But his smile fades away just as soon as it came. He's going to be facing a long path ahead of him. There's still much to be done, and not much time to do it.
And the Baali is not even sure of HOW he is to go about this. It's 1 gigantic question mark. His cellphone vibrates in his pocket. He pulls it out and checks his messages.
Jamie sent a text message that reads: "Too busy right now. Soooooo good to hear ur voice again after soooo long and we can talk soon. Luv, JP."
While in some heavy traffic, many things weigh down on the SEC Enforcement Investigator. Mainly how bad Rhonda's condition really is- that is at the forefront of his mind; even his investigation has fallen by the wayside, at least for the moment.
To say that Mr. Reed is completely at a loss would be an understatement. And wait till he finds out that LDJ is...no longer present in this city. Will he ever learn about that twerp's fate?
Markham trills his lips as some of the breeze from outside flows into the vehicle through the rolled-down windows. The cool-ish night air helps calm him down.
At the FBI-SAD HQ...
Special Agent Cuomo has just gotten his ass chewed out by the Division Director himself. The former lamely claims that blank bodies weren't expected to attack, let alone know, the route of the convoy that was transporting LDJ to the airstrip.
Now frustrated, he paces around his office while massaging his forehead with his fingers. He plops himself on his chair and sighs loudly.
"This is a colossal clusterfuck..."
All that was found were mangled bodies and overturned vehicles. The SAD was quick to "relieve" the local PD of this investigation. Nobody else should know about these events. After all, the less people who know about it, the better.
Agent Heartley nervously knocks on the door of her superior, "Harold? You in there?"
Special Agent Cuomo groans and lazily waves a hand, as if reluctantly ushering his subordinate in, "Come in...just...come in."
Agent Heartley walks in and quickly closes the door behind her, "H--hey, boss. What did...he say?"
Special Agent Cuomo's lower lip shifts from side to side, "He gave me the works. That man has his way with words, heh. I'll give you the shorthand version: unless we turn this around and in a major way, this op is going to be the last for both of us."
Agent Heartley gulps nervously, "Oh...that's not good, that's not good at all...I--I mean, what about my promotion and--and my--"
He rolls his eyes and interrupts, "Oh, god, not this again. Look, you'll get your promotion to Special Agent when the time's right, OK? For now, I need you to dig in and find something- anything- to salvage this mess."
Agent Heartley fidgets a little and replies, "Um...what about your source, your CI? Any word from the elusive Mr. X?"
Special Agent Cuomo shrugs, "Nope. Not a squeak- I don't like it when people go silent on me. That's not how it works."
Agent Heartley bites her lower lip and suggests, "Maybe...maybe we ought to find ourselves a new source of intel, sir?"
"Maybe. Anything useful from that bitch's laptop?"
"Techs are still scrubbing through it. That bloodsucker had to be p--put down. Her abilities- in the wrong hands- could've been disastrous. I'm just glad that nobody else knew about her capabilities, boss."
"Heh, yeah. At least we were able to salvage something useful, so it's not a complete loss. But the higher-ups are gonna demand answers. After all, it was my call to let the lower rungs handle the transportation of the...witness. Dunno what else to call that kid, hmph."
Agent Heartley sniffs and looks around her superior's office, "With our recent losses, there's no way we can cover this up with anything less than a miracle, sir."
Special Agent Cuomo leans forward in his chair and nods slowly, "Then we'll need to think outside the box, Heather. Oh, and...there might be a hearing on this, but it's highly unlikely that it'll lead anywhere."
Agent Heartley's face scrunches, "What?! Why?!"
Special Agent Cuomo's tone is dry, "The kid turned state's evidence and secured himself a sweetheart deal. Somebody upstairs wants blood. In the next few weeks, they're gonna drag me, and everybody else who was involved, over the fuckin' coals. But I can deal with that. What I can't deal with is this operation turning out to be a bust."
Agent Heartley lowers her voice, "Am I gonna get dragged over the coals, too? Harry, I have 2 kids who depend on me!"
Special Agent Cuomo tells his subordinate, "If you want to save your ass, then help me clean up this mess. This is how things work, Heather. You've been begging for that promotion ever since we got back in the field, well, this is how the game is played."
Agent Heartley nods vigorously, "OK. What do you want me to do, boss?"
Special Agent Cuomo fiddles with his Masonic ring, "For starters, we'll BOTH have to get our stories straight. These cross-examining sons of bitches really take a huge magnifying glass over every little thing."
Agent Heartley sighs in frustration, "Alright. So, what else?"
Special Agent Cuomo responds, "Well, we'll need a way to offset the blame...if worse comes to worst, that is. Find me, find us a patsy who can take all the blame. But make it sound plausible enough. And don't gimme that look. This is exactly how things are done at the Bureau. The ends always justify the means, y'know?"
Agent Heartley stifles a groan, "Oh, great. What the hell am I agreeing to over here." She forces herself to go along with her boss's plan because she is afraid of what could happen if she doesn't.
Back at Luciano Donovan Senior's Haven...
Sunrise is a few hours away. The sky is still dark. There is still some time left before dawn. It's quiet, too. Very quiet. The Lasombra Fledgling walks around his fancy Haven and admires the vastness of his mansion.
He proudly stares at a portrait of himself he had commissioned a while back, "This is mine. It's all goddamn mine now."
Sheriff Velma DuPont's red Mustang convertible is parked outside the massive mansion. She had come here on short notice. A few minutes pass and she is now standing face to face with the Lasombra Fledging.
Her up-do is impeccable, as always. The Ventrue is wearing a white long-sleeved dress shirt underneath an olive-green vest. The vest is paired with a matching pencil skirt and some brown flats.
Luciano Senior, ever the lecherous creep (and product of social decay), wolf-whistles and grins at the Sheriff, "Oh, marone. Who knew that corpses could be so beautiful, so alluring? Ooooh, mamma mia, you're giving me tingles in places, doll."
Sheriff Velma grimaces and is creeped out by that remark, "OK...uh...I'm gonna have to tell you to keep it well within your pants, sir. This isn't a booty call; this is me checking in on you on behalf of the rightful ruler of this Domain."
Luciano Senior rolls his eyes and says, "Hmph. Spoilsport. And, yeah, I've already been brought up to speed on the mess that you're all embroiled in. Crush 'em fast...or don't."
The Ventrue Sheriff takes a look around the Shadow's Haven, "The Prince wishes to know more about the circumstances surrounding your Embrace, Mr. Donovan. And I do have to remind you that this is a Camarilla Domain through and through."
Luciano Senior sits on a beige sofa and folds 1 leg over the other, "You want to know if I was a bad boy, hmm?"
Sheriff Velma sighs and takes a seat opposite him. A glass table separates them. She replies, "I'll be blunt: you're new here. And you're not exactly the type of man whose presence is easy to hide. Your trip to Israel was making the rounds. I even saw a picture of you signing a missile."
Luciano Senior smirks, "Yeah. My trip to Israel opened my eyes...what was your name again?"
She sternly replies, "It's Velma DuPont. To the likes of you, it's Sheriff Velma DuPont. Got it? Good, because I'm no pushover and I sure as hell am not here to be treated like one."
Luciano Senior shrugs, "I can tell. I dunno what Sect my Sire pledged his allegiance to. Could've been an Anarch for all I know."
Sheriff Velma responds, "And what about you? Where are YOUR allegiances in the Eternal Struggle?"
The Lasombra Fledgling chuckles faintly, "Wherever the wind blows favorably, I suppose. Why the interrogation, huh? What, you think I'm gonna be a problem? Woman, I am a fixture of this goddamn city. Hell, you could even say that I AM FLIMONT CITY!"
The Blue Blood is unfazed by this display of bravado, "And your son's been quite--"
Luciano Senior raises his hand, palm facing her, and interjects, "That little puke has been out of my goddamn hair for good. He will no longer be a problem."
Sheriff Velma's eyebrows shoot up, "Oh. I...see. Care to elaborate on that?"
The Lasombra Fledgling smirks and leans forward, "Nope. How a man deals with his offspring is of no concern to...outsiders. Just tell Prince Antonio that I'll play along, observe the Masquerade, all that good shit."
Sheriff Velma nods slowly and stands up, "Hmm. Well, I suppose that's that. And...when you aren't too tied up with your business affairs, you are to come and present yourself to the Prince in accordance with the Fifth Tradition. Got it?"
Luciano Senior snickers, "You better get home. Sun's coming up soon. Would be a shame if such a pretty face gets destroyed...and turns all scorched and black, like 1 of them--"
Sheriff Velma steps into the Fledgling's personal bubble and grits her teeth, "I am not some kind of a sideshow attraction for you to ogle at, Mr. Donovan. I am your Sheriff and I am OWED some goddamn respect around here! You got that?!"
Luciano Senior's eyes turn black for a few seconds before returning to normal. Sheriff Velma winces but quickly turns on her heel and saunters out of the Lasombra's Haven.
The Shadow gets a good look at her posterior and rubs his palms together, "Ooooh, baby. Feisty, huh? Not my kind of woman, but still...grrrr." His growl is lecherous and gross.
As the Sheriff is driving down the roads of the City of Flimont, she mumbles to herself, "Hmph. A Lasombra as prominent as the Donovan patriarch spells trouble for us. On the flipside, he might be what we need to turn the tide in our favor."
She slams her foot deeper into the gas pedal and says, "Now, if only Prince Antonio could get his head out of his ass and make a goddamn move against the conspirators already! I hate all of this sitting around and waiting for them to make their next move."
The Ventrue gets a slight look at the sun dangerously peeking over the horizon. Her Haven is mere seconds away- she picks up the speed and makes it there with a few minutes to spare.
Sheriff Velma sighs in relief, "Phew." She goes to get undressed, lets her up-do down, and hops into bed, ready to be taken in by the gentle embrace of the day-slumber.
She falls asleep and dreams of herself having a life as a mortal, back when she was alive, back when her heart thumped. Back when she drew breath. Music production was always a passion of hers, but the job of Sheriff was a calling that she couldn't ignore.
Her life before being Embraced is mostly a blur to her now. DuPont women were always a tad too laidback for Sheriff Velma's liking.
Still, that desire to be a music producer does swim around her dreams as her still body rejuvenates itself. Interestingly enough, she has been looking into that on the side.
Owing to Prince Antonio's indecisiveness, Sheriff Velma has taken the opportunity to look more into that. She already has the relevant industry connections and getting contacts wouldn't be difficult for a woman whose entire family was (and still is) in the music industry.
Furthermore, the many indie musicians that she feeds from do show some semblance of talent. Maybe, just maybe, there is something to work with here.
The Ventrue Sheriff would make an excellent music producer, too. There is 1 who has caught her eyes in recent nights. This fella's a bit off the beaten path, as it were, but he seems to have a knack for sing-songing.
She has listened to a few demo albums from some desperate types and is generally quite unamused by what enters her ears. But that fella, for whatever reason, has gotten her attention.
His real name's Andy, but he goes by the name "Shed Furst". He's a chubby 30-something white guy with a scruffy beard and a head of hair that has clearly seen better days.
His singing is...unique to say the least, but his lyrics and overall flow are the things that give him a bit of an edge. He raps over any sick beat and seemingly elevates even the dryest of sounds to new heights.
While not her usual "type," Sheriff Velma figures that he might be worth a shot. With her connections and his talent, they could produce some good music together. And, yes, she has a few tunes in mind already.
It's mostly anodyne stuff, but Ms. DuPont has never been one to challenge the power, upset the setup, or rock the boat. And Shed Furst's own brand of rap music has already garnered him a decent fan base.
Perhaps there is something there after all. She could use him to her advantage. She is, after all, a vampire. A nocturnal predator of the dark nights. And Sheriff V has no problem with seeking out others' weaknesses and exploiting them to the max.
The Ventrue Sheriff is also thinking about this in order to help keep her mind off the conspirators and their plan. So far, neither side has responded ever since Prince Antonio's fellow Ventrue beat poor Brock down to a pulp.
But how long will this uneasiness and tension last? There is a feeling that Sheriff Velma has, a feeling that this city will soon be consumed by chaos and violence. It's a feeling that she cannot so easily shake off.
It's a feeling that many Kindred are bound to share in the near future. The immediate future, even.
Chapter 35: Inhumanity Required
And the sun's all up in the sky. The Kindred snooze away, their cold, icy bodies going through a process of rejuvenation. The world outside is bathed in the sun's golden light.
The mortals ready themselves- physically and mentally- for the day ahead. Work, school, university, the florists, the beauty salon, wherever and whatever else.
The sun-scorched streets are abuzz with activity. The sidewalks are not so empty, either. Cars, as usual, clog up the roads. Honking horns and choice words fill the early morning air.
The unremarkable SAD HQ is also abuzz with activity, but of a very different kind. After last night's mess-up, Special Agent Cuomo is really trying to figure out a way to salvage this op. His subordinate, Agent Heartley, is doing the same.
The big man blows a tired raspberry and spins on his chair, "Ughhhh...so, any ideas yet?"
The early morning sun peeks through the blinds of the office windows. Agent Heartley gets off the phone with someone, her expression grim and her tone somber. She looks over at her boss and says, "Uh...nope. But we're in for a rough time."
Special Agent Cuomo groans and rubs his forehead, "Oh, great. Tell me something that I don't know--"
As he's wallowing in his own misery, a knock on the door interrupts him. The door opens and a man in a suit walks in. He places some sort of manilla folder on the desk and explains, "Your CI, sir. Mr. X. He had someone send this. For your eyes only."
Agent Heartley's eyes widen and she exclaims, "What?! Did--did you apprehend the person who sent this?"
The suit guy shakes his head, "No, we did not. He said he worked for Mr. X, not that we had any reason to doubt him. The package was thoroughly checked and scanned, so it's safe to say that there's nothing nasty inside."
Special Agent Cuomo tears the folder open and finds a few photographs inside. He takes it out and examines it closely, "What the hell is this?"
Suit man takes his leave and closes the door with a slight thud. Agent Heartley peers over her superior's shoulder and sees the photos, "Who...is that...guy?"
Special Agent Cuomo mumbles, "Looks like we have an address, basic info, everything. Oh, wait...here, read this."
Agent Heartley sees a small, handwritten note and reads it aloud, "'He's a vamp sympathizer. I'm sure that you'll handle the rest. More info this evening- this is gonna be a major one. Love, Mister X.'"
Special Agent Cuomo inspects the intel again, "So, we got some guy named...Farooq. He's got a tech store in this city. Blank body sympathizer, huh? Can't say that I'm surprised. Heather? You want point on this?"
Agent Heartley declines, "I'm more interested in what our CI has for us in the evening, Harold. Why don't you take point on this one? Besides, I have a meeting with the tech guys in a few minutes. They're supposed to give me an update on the laptop."
Special Agent Cuomo downs the last of his coffee (with a tiny bit of booze mixed in), wipes his mouth, and stands up, "Alright. I'll check this guy out and see what he knows."
Agent Heartley grins fiendishly, "Is that all you're gonna do?"
Special Agent Cuomo puts on his FBI cap, "Oh, you know me, Heather...I like to get creative when out on the field. Contrary to what a bunch of bleeding hearts say, enhanced interrogation techniques work wonders." There is an eerily disturbing glint in his eyes.
Agent Heartley nods along, "Just...just don't go overboard, OK?"
Special Agent Cuomo snickers, "When it comes to keeping Americans safe, there's no such thing as going overboard. You'd do well to keep that in mind, Heather."
He then leaves the office and heads for the elevator. The manilla folder and its contents remain splayed across the desk. Agent Heartley takes another look at the photos and the note.
She bites her lower lip and sighs, "Hmm...let's hope that Harry's CI has something juicy for ME to tackle."
Special Agent Cuomo gathers a few SAD operatives and hops into an SUV- they're all briefed on the way to Farooq's tech store.
"Alright, folks! Listen up! We just received some fresh intel on a possible blank body sympathizer. We're gonna go in there, bust the doors down, and...have a nice little chat with him."
The SUV speeds down the road and stops right outside the store. Special Agent Cuomo and his team storm inside the store. A few thugs go around and block off the exits.
Farooq, the store owner, is caught completely off guard. He yelps and drops the box he was carrying. His eyes widen to an alarming degree as he is approached by 2 large men.
Special Agent Cuomo pulls out his pistol, points it at him, and says, "You! On the floor, now!"
Farooq shakily complies and lies belly-down onto the floor. Special Agent Cuomo squats next to him and lowers his voice, "You're gonna tell us everything you know, buddy."
Farooq fearfully stammers, "My--my--my papers are in order! I am a legal--"
Special Agent Cuomo whacks the poor guy with the underside of his pistol, "We ain't interested in that, pal. We wanna know about the blank bodies."
Farooq is visibly confused, "The--the what?"
The head of the SAD operation growls and violently hoists the quivering man up to his feet, "Don't play dumb with me, asshole! The blank bodies! You know, those freaks that look like they just crawled out of a goddamn grave?!"
Farooq shakes his head and tries to wiggle free of the 2 men who are tightly gripping him, "I--I--I don't know what you're talking about! Please, I beg of you, let me go! I am an--an honest citizen, I swear to--"
Special Agent Cuomo smacks him in the face, "Shut up! You're gonna tell me everything you know, or I'll blow your brains out! And I'll find your fuckin' family and any friends you have and do the same thing to them! You hear me?!"
Farooq is now crying. Special Agent Cuomo delivers another savage punch. The last thing Farooq sees before blacking out is the blurry image of a fist heading towards his face. He slumps over and passes out.
A little later...
The store has been completely closed down and sealed off by the SAD goons. Farooq is bound to a chair somewhere in the grimy backroom of the store. Special Agent Cuomo is standing in front of him, arms crossed.
Farooq blinks a few times and groans as he can feel a sharp pain in his jaw area. His vision is still blurry, but he can make out the vague shape of someone standing in front of him.
Special Agent Cuomo looks down on the poor man contemptuously, "You're not a bloodsucker- we already checked. So...Farooq or whatever the fuck your name is. After your little nap, are you in a...talking mood?"
"I swear! I do not know what you are talking about! PLEASE! This is madness, insanity! Walla, I--"
Special Agent Cuomo hits him again, "Quit your jibbering, sand monkey! Don't give me that shit! You're gonna tell me everything you know about the blank bodies, or I'll make you wish you were never born!"
Farooq mutters, "You--you have no right to--to talk to people like that. I am an honest, tax-paying--"
Special Agent Cuomo grits his teeth and jabs the barrel of his pistol against the man's forehead, "I said SHUT UP! You're gonna talk! YOU'RE GONNA TELL ME WHAT I WANNA HEAR or you're gonna die! Do you understand that, huh? DO YOU?!"
Farooq's lower lip quivers while a few droplets of blood trickle down his nose. Special Agent Cuomo cocks the hammer of his pistol and growls, "Talk. I want names, numbers, addresses, descriptions."
Farooq insists, "I do not know what--what these blank err...bodies are. If--if I did, then I would absolutely be calling the authorities. I am not that kind of person who hides things from the government. I like--love this country, sir."
Special Agent Cuomo presses the barrel harder against Farooq's forehead, "Bullshit! All you fuckin' Jihadis are the same! You all want to destroy America! You wanna see it burn, don't you?! Is that why you got into bed with vampires, huh?!"
Farooq stammers and looks at the fuming man and gasps, "V--vampires? Walla, no! I--I know absolutely nothing of such things! I swear to you, sir, on my life, on my family's life, on my ancestors' graves also! I--I am but a humble shopkeeper, sir!"
Special Agent Cuomo grits his teeth and thunders, "Goddamn terrorist! YOU KNOW something! And I'll do everything that's within my power to pry it outta your stubborn ass!"
Farooq starts bawling and pleads, "Please! I beg of you, sir! I know nothing of--of--of these sorts of things! I keep my head down, mind my own business, and peacefully attend to my affairs! Please, sir! I am begging you!"
Special Agent Cuomo lowers his pistol and scoffs, "Tch."
He rudely asks a few of his fellow goons, "Did you find anything yet?!"
An agent steps forward and hands her boss a list of items, "Yeah. A whole lotta shit. He's got some weird-ass stuff here, sir."
Special Agent Cuomo perches an eyebrow and mumbles to himself the contents of the clipboard's list. He sees a bunch of electronics, computer parts, other techy stuff. Nothing out of the ordinary.
However, his grimace slowly turns into a wicked grin as he sees a particular item on the list: burner phones. A lot of burner phones.
"Bingo."
Farooq's breathing is heavy and his shoulders rise and fall rapidly. Special Agent Cuomo hands the clipboard back to the agent and snickers, "You know, I've been doing this shit for quite a while now...I know all the ways in which vampires hide their activities."
He squats in front of Farooq and continues, "And, if you think that I'm gonna let you get away with this, then you are sorely mistaken, buddy. You've been getting bulk orders for a ton of burner phones. I want a name. Now."
Farooq whimpers and gulps, "I--I have no ide--idea what you are talking about."
Special Agent Cuomo chuckles mirthlessly, "Don't play games with me, Jihadi. I want names. You've been getting an unusually large amount of burner phones. That's not normal. It's suspicious. And, if you're smart, you'll give me what I want."
Farooq's eyes dart from side to side, "This--in case--in case you have noticed, this is a tech store. I--I keep burner phones in stock. I do not ask why my customers want them. I just sell them. That is all."
Special Agent Cuomo clicks his tongue derisively, "You see, I don't believe you. And after what you people did, I have absolutely no reason to trust you."
Farooq protests, "But sir! I had NOTHING to do with what you--you are referring to. Walla, I was sick on that tragic and--and horrible day. But I--I saw it on the news, sir. And I--I cried. I mourned the many losses, I swear! I--I am not like any of those--those monsters, sir."
Special Agent Cuomo holsters his pistol and sighs, "That's what they always say..." he trails off and begins to slowly walk around the grimy backroom. A sickly white, fluorescent light provides a good deal of illumination.
The FBI agent looks over at the terrified man and asks, "So...electronics, bootleg CDs, used laptops, burner phones, and other such shit. Tell me, how does one get into this kind of business?"
Farooq swallows the lump in his throat, "D--don't you people know everything? I--I mean, aren't you supposed to know it all?"
"Don't play coy with me. Remember: I'm not the one tied to a fuckin' chair."
Farooq winces as he can feel his bonds digging into his wrists and ankles, "Ow. Ouch. I--I do not know what you--you want to know. I conduct my business with integrity, honesty, and above all, honor. I am not a liar, sir."
Special Agent Cuomo rolls his eyes, "Yeah, yeah." He peers into a box of DVDs and sees that they are mostly bootleg copies of movies. He picks up a copy of the latest blockbuster movie and chuckles, "Hmm...bootlegging, huh?"
Farooq lowers his head a little, "Times are...tough, s--sir. Besides, everyone else on this street was doing it."
Special Agent Cuomo shakes his head and continues to ominously pace around, "Huh. Everybody else was doing it, huh? Yeah, that's what they all say. I've heard that line so many times, it makes me sick."
He stops and takes a good look around, "Sometimes, you don't have a cattle prod or a pair of pliers lying around, so...you gotta get creative."
His eyes immediately flit over to an open toolbox. He saunters over to it and sees that there are several tools inside. A screwdriver, a wrench, a hammer, etc. A few large nails, too.
Farooq's eyes widen and he screams, "NO! NO! PLEASE!" he tries to squirm out of his bonds, but it's no use. The ropes are tied too tightly.
Special Agent Cuomo picks up a hammer and grins sadistically, "You know, I really hate your kind. What you did was...inexcusable. Besides, I have my orders. By any and all available means necessary. I like a blank check, heh."
Farooq pleads, "Please! No!"
With wide eyes he looks at the other thugs in the room and desperately begs, "Help! Please! He's going to hurt me! Help!"
1 of the agents steps forward and holds him down, "Sorry, buddy. We're not here to help you. We're here to get some answers outta you."
Farooq starts crying again and babbles incoherently, "Please! PLEASE! NO!"
Special Agent Cuomo retrieves some nails and nods over to a few agents. They firmly nod back and drag the chair that Farooq is bound to over to a nearby table.
This table is a wooden table with a few rusty metal legs. The top of the table is littered with various magazines, electronic components, wires, parts, and the like.
Farooq continues to scream and beg for mercy. An agent viciously wipes the table clean with a swipe of the hand. Special Agent Cuomo then slams the first nail onto the table and gives Farooq a nasty grin.
"Tell me what I wanna know. Last chance..."
Farooq stammers and weakly gasps. Words fail him. Special Agent Cuomo then drives the nail into the poor fella's web space (the gap between the fingers). Farooq screams bloody murder.
The nail sticks out of his hand and blood pools around it. Special Agent Cuomo nods to another agent who then grabs a second nail and hammers it into the other hand.
"AAAAAAAAARGH!" Farooq's scream is bloodcurdling and guttural. His face is a contorted mask of pain. He feels like he's going to pass out.
"Tell me...what I wanna know. Burner phones. Bulk orders. Who?"
Farooq looks at his bloodied hands and sees the 2 nails sticking out of each of them. He then looks up at the man who is asking him these questions.
Special Agent Cuomo callously averts his gaze and jerks his chin to the other hammer-holding agent, "You know what to do."
The agent then proceeds to hammer another nail Farooq's hand webbing. Both hands are done almost simultaneously. Farooq cries out in pain once more.
Special Agent Cuomo repeats, "Tell me what I wanna know. Burner phones. A whole lotta them. Who's been making the bulk orders?"
Farooq's vision is blurry and he can barely make out the shape of the creatures surrounding him. He sways from side to side, but he's held in place by a few other SAD operators who are standing behind him.
"Who? WHO?!"
Farooq is on the verge of passing out.
Special Agent Cuomo pinches the back of his neck and jolts him awake, "Hey! Stay with me, buddy! Don't go passing out on me! You're used to the sight of blood, aren't you?"
Farooq weakly mumbles, "I--I know...nothing. Please, e--end this insanity, I beg of--of you...habibi--"
Special Agent Cuomo has a look of disgust etched across his face, "Tch. I'm gonna ask you 1 last time--"
He gestures to the other hammer-wielder to get another nail ready, "--who ordered those burner phones. I need a name, a description, and...an address, preferably in that order."
Farooq groans and tries to keep his eyes open.
Special Agent Cuomo impatiently growls, "You got 6 seconds before I start driving nails into the rest of your goddamn hands. 5..."
"I know nothing! I swear, if--if I did, I would've already re--reported it to the authorities!!!"
"3...not impressed..."
"You cannot do this to me! I have--"
Special Agent Cuomo sighs, "0. You know what to do..."
2 more nails- 1 for each hand- are hammered into Farooq's webbing. He screams again and starts to sob.
"YAAAAAHRGH! I--I know nothing! Please, at once--stop this madness!"
The blood flows to the edge of the table and drips onto the floor. Special Agent Cuomo shakes his head and says, "You're not cooperating. And I don't like an uncooperative son of a bitch."
Farooq is in such agonizing pain that he struggles to stay conscious. Special Agent Cuomo then nods to the other agents. They grab a hold of the poor guy's arms and stretch them out. A ripping sound is heard as his hands are pulled away from the standing nails.
"AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAGH!"
Special Agent Cuomo leans in closer to Farooq and lowers his voice to a menacing growl, "Burner phones. Bulk orders. Who's the customer...or customers, hmm?"
Farooq is breathing heavily and his shoulders rise and fall rapidly. He weakly mumbles, "I--I do not know what you are talking about. YOU ARE A--A MO--"
Special Agent Cuomo smacks the back of Farooq's head and tuts, "Oh, the only monster here is you. You know something. And I'm gonna find out what it is."
He then nods to the other agents who reposition Farooq's bleeding hands over the table. The poor guy is still crying and sobbing.
Special Agent Cuomo takes a deep breath and says, "Last chance...or else you won't be able to do a whole lotta things with these mangled hands of yours."
Farooq sniffles and chokes out, "I know nothing! I swear! On all that is humane and--and righteous, I SWEAR!"
Special Agent Cuomo rapidly clicks his tongue, "Tsk, tsk, tsk. Not convincing, not even remotely convincing. And I'm a very impatient man. You got 3 seconds."
Farooq closes his eyes and silently prays for some semblance of strength and mercy.
"1..."
"Please...have mercy on me."
"2..."
"I beg of you!"
"3..." Special Agent Cuomo gives the other hammer-holder the go-ahead. Nail after nail is mercilessly driven into the poor guy's hands. They don't just focus on his webbing like last time; they go for the tips of fingers, the palm, and the knuckles.
The blood flows freely and pools onto the table. Farooq screams in pain and nearly passes out again. He tightly grits his teeth and tries to stay conscious.
Special Agent Cuomo leans in closer and whispers, "Give me a name. Give me a description. Gimme an address, something that I can use. The ball's in your court, buddy. You've got the power to stop this, I don't."
Farooq sniffles and mumbles, "I--I know--please, I--stop this at--at once."
The head honcho nods to the other agents who pull Farooq's arms back. Another tearing sound is heard. Fleshy bits of skin are ripped off.
"AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAGH!"
"You're not making this any easier for me, huh?" Special Agent Cuomo pulls out his pistol and holds it up against the poor man's temple.
Farooq blinks a few times and tries to catch his breath.
Special Agent Cuomo pulls the hammer back and cocks the gun, "I'm gonna ask you 1 last time: who ordered those damn burner phones? I know that you're connected to the blanks. I know that they've been using you- they do that to people, a lot. Now...who is it?"
Farooq slowly shakes his head and shakily mutters, "I...I...cannot--give--"
Special Agent Cuomo scoffs and looks at his subordinates, "You heard that? He knows, this son of a bitch KNOWS! But he can't give up whoever his vampire pals are, huh?"
Some mutters and groans emanate from the other agents. Special Agent Cuomo then looks at Farooq and growls, "I'm gonna give you 1 last chance. Your hands are done for, so you kiss goodbye to a whole lotta fun stuff. What other body part do you think we should work on next? Hmm?"
Farooq blinks tightly and sniffs loudly, "I...please--"
Special Agent Cuomo screams into the guy's ear, "ANSWER ME!"
Farooq flinches and gasps, "I--I cannot tell you what I do not know!!"
From there, it devolves into more nails being hammered into what remains of Farooq's hands. The poor guy screams in pain and tries to squirm free, but it's of no use.
Hammers send nails in and blood comes spurting out. It's a gruesome sight to behold. Bones break and flesh is torn apart.
Special Agent Cuomo carries out the whole thing with a cold, dead expression. He doesn't feel anything for the shopkeeper.
Farooq is now whimpering and crying uncontrollably. His hands are completely mangled and bloody. The nails stick out of his hands and blood drips onto his shoes. He struggles to keep his eyes open.
Special Agent Cuomo dryly inspects the hammer and sets it aside. He touches a few of the protruding nails and asks, "So...are you ready to talk now, hmm? That's some blood loss you're experiencing right there. You might pass out if you're not careful."
Farooq weakly mumbles, "I--I know...I don--don't know...stop...at once...please, s--sir. I am...I am innocent...man...please."
Special Agent Cuomo scoffs bitterly, "Innocent, huh? None of you people are innocent. Now, the next thing outta that big mouth of yours better be something useful, or else..." he lets the threat hang in the dense air.
Farooq sniffles and weakly says, "I--I know--"
Special Agent Cuomo groans and hammers a nail into Farooq's knee. The poor guy cries out in pain and winces.
"Talk! Tell me what I wanna hear! NAMES! NAMES, DAMMIT!"
Farooq yells out, "Velma! Velma! Velma! H--her name is Velma!"
Special Agent Cuomo stares deeply into the poor man's eyes and growls, "Velma? Is that it? Velma? That's not good enough for me! Gimme a last name! NOW, ASSHOLE! NOW!"
Farooq hesitates and stammers, "I--I--I do not know her last name. She--she never told me."
Special Agent Cuomo ruthlessly orders the other hammer-carrier to do the same thing that was just done, but to the other knee.
"AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAGRGRGHH!"
"Talk! Give me more details! LAST NAME! Velma! VELMA WHO, HUH?!"
Farooq screams out, spittle flying everywhere, "DuPont! DUPONT!! She--she always came to my shop and--and bought those burner phones in--in bulk! C--cash only!"
Special Agent Cuomo cracks a smile of sheer satisfaction and nods to his fellow agents, "Good. Good. That's what I like to hear. Velma DuPont, hm? Alright, we'll have to look into whoever this bitch is once we get back."
He ducks till he's level with Farooq's face and asks, "Anything else? Is there anything else that you're withholding from us?"
Farooq can barely answer because of the amount of pain that he's experiencing. He weakly shakes his head and says, "No. No. I--I know nothing else."
Special Agent Cuomo cups the torture victim's cheek and asks, "Are you sure?"
Farooq weakly gulps, "I--I am, y--yes."
"Very well. I believe you." Special Agent Cuomo rises up, pulls out his pistol, aims it at Farooq's head, and fires. Blood and brain matter splatter all over the place.
The bullet makes a small hole in Farooq's forehead, and it causes his head to snap back violently.
None of the other agents so much as object, let alone flinch. They're all too inured to this kind of nasty, nasty shit.
Special Agent Cuomo holsters his pistol and walks over to the door. He sternly orders, "Grab whatever's useful, get rid of the body, and torch the rest. We need to keep sending a message to our vampire friends. A message that we're here...and we don't fuck around."
The other agents nod and carry out their superior's orders without question. They grab some techy stuff, burner phones, laptops, and so on. A few of them even pocket whatever cash (or other stuff) that they can find.
Bastards. The lot of them.
A couple of agents drag Farooq's lifeless body out of the backroom and dump it in the middle of the store. Once the kerosene has been doused all over the place, a match is lit and tossed.
Flames lick the walls and spread throughout the store. The agents quickly leave the premises and hop into their vans. As the vans are screeching away, the fire engulfs the entire store.
It's soon a blazing inferno. Farooq's lifeless body is left inside to burn.
Whyever did Prince Antonio relay the location of a mortal like Farooq over to the SAD scum? Well, it's because he's keen on doing a bit of a...cabinet reshuffling.
To the Prince, Sheriff Velma DuPont is becoming a bit of a liability owing to her overzealous nature and uncompromising attitude. She's been getting too big for her britches and he's not too happy about it.
So, he decided to use his whole Mister X schtick to pass over some info on 1 of Sheriff Velma's many close contacts who provide her with a variety of useful things and/or services.
There are other more loyal Ventrue within Prince Antonio's inner circle who would be more than happy to take the current Sheriff's place. Despite her unwavering loyalty to him, she's become too much of a loose cannon over these past few nights.
She's so eager to put the conspirators against the Prince down that she's becoming blinded by her own bloodlust. SHE wants to be the one who brings the traitors to justice while Prince Antonio seems to have other ideas in mind.
He wants to let them sweat for a bit while he takes a few steps back and waits for the dust to settle. She wants to declare a Blood Hunt and end the plotters on the spot.
Prince Antonio has no qualms about sacrificing pawns if it means that he gets to stay on tippy top of the food chain. In the undead pecking order, Sheriff Velma is just a notch beneath him.
She's still a pawn, albeit a very useful one. However, he's going to use this opportunity to replace her with someone who's more...
Ass-kissy and less aggressive. Someone who's more willing to compromise. Someone who will be more compliant with the ruler's wishes, whims, and fanciful fancies as it were.
And Farooq, rest his soul, was just the first step in Prince Antonio's plan to be rid of the nuisance known as Sheriff Velma DuPont and have her replaced with someone who's more pliable and less likely to run off the rails.
As for the other conspirators, well...they're gonna have to wait for a bit longer. Prince Antonio still refuses to make any major moves against any of them.
Despite knowing where they live, work, and tend to feed, he's holding out on issuing a Blood Hunt against them. He's not ready to make such a bold move yet.
Hell, he's not quite ready to make any moves against them. He's content with letting them sweat for a bit. He's content with waiting for the dust to settle before he decides what to do with them.
But most of all, he's absolutely desperate to find every last copy of those incriminating recordings. If he can't find them, then he'll have to take deeply drastic measures.
He's not afraid of making a few sacrifices if it means that he gets to keep his throne for a lil while longer. A 100 years isn't enough...he's not ready to give it up just yet.
Not when he's got so much more to gain and so little to lose. There's also that matter of acquiring that sweet, sweet land so he and his parasitic developer buddies can gentrify the hell outta it, "redevelop" it, and make a whole lotta dough in the grim process.
He's got too much riding on this to let it all go to waste.
For now, all Kindred remain fast in the throes of the day-sleep as the sun shines brightly overhead. A harsh and mean glow coats the entire cityscape.
So, yeah...Prince Antonio "Tony" Black is playing a dangerous game. But it's not just a game. Not when good, honest, and innocent people like Farooq end up getting hurt, tortured, caught in the crossfire, and ultimately killed off in the process.
In the aftermath of the motorcade ambush, it isn't too hard to see why the forces of the Second Inquisition are behaving in such a barbaric manner.
They're desperate to waste some Kindred. They're desperate for results, answers, and a way to justify their overarching, violent, and intrusive powers over the masses.
If they have to resort to torture, so be it. These fascistic assholes do it to people like Farooq all the goddamn time, both within the USA and in hellholes like Abu Ghraib, Guantanamo Bay, and so on.
These bastards are trained to do this kind of nasty shit. They're conditioned to be merciless, cruel, and unfeeling. And a lot of them not only love it...they revel in it.
Behold! The servitors of the almighty dollar empire! The lackeys of Wall Street! The order followers! The cogs of the military-spy-police industrial complex! The instruments (blunt, sharp, or otherwise) of the ruling class! The special bodies of armed men (and women)!
(And to think that people actually thank such cretin for their "service". To think that such louts and vermin are entitled to discounts, free shit, and the like. To think that they're lauded as heroes and given parades and medals and all that nonsense. It's sickening, utterly maddening!)
The FBI-SAD goons are ruthless. They don't care who they hurt or what they destroy. But they are just parts of a larger process at play over here.
Sunset is approaching and the night is about to begin. News spreads far and wide about an electronics and tech store that got burned down. Nobody suspects arson by government thugs, of course.
The news of Farooq's tragic and untimely demise reaches Sheriff Velma's ears. She's shocked and outraged by this. After taking a drink from her emergency stash, she gets dressed and decides to head out to the scene of the crime.
Before doing so, she gets showered, and dresses up in a simple shirt, some wide-legged pants, and a light-brown trenchcoat. After applying a bit of makeup, she spends a good few minutes doing her hair up.
Once Sheriff Velma has achieved her signature up-do look, she grabs her purse, slips on her shoes, and heads out the front door of her Haven.
She drives to the burnt-out store and parks a short distance away. A few cop cars with blinking lights are parked nearby. A couple of cops are standing around, talking amongst themselves.
Sheriff Velma stays in her sleek ride and observes from afar. She watches as some cops carry out some burnt-out tech stuff. A couple of them are poking around the wreckage and trying to piece together what happened.
Sheriff Velma squints and notices a few familiar faces. A few of them are contacts that she has from within the FCPD. The Ventrue decides to speak to them later and get the finer details of what went down.
From there, she starts her vehicle up and drives off into the darkening night. She's heading towards the temporary Haven of Prince Antonio to inform him of this latest development.
Elsewhere...
Luciano Donovan Senior rises from his day-long slumber. The Lasombra Fledgling blinks and feels a certain stiffness in his limbs. He stretches himself out with a slight groan and yawns loudly.
He struggles to climb out of bed and trudges over to the bathroom. He brushes his teeth and splashes some water on his face. Once the shower water has done going down his cold, naked body, he dries himself off and gets dressed.
Luciano puts on a beige dress shirt and a black suit with matching pants. He slips on his shoes, ties them up real tight, and heads out the door.
With a raised chin, he strides to the sitting room and sets himself down on the couch. He sighs and leans back, staring up at the ceiling.
His mind wanders back to the previous night. He ignores the cries and pleas of his son and tries to focus on not only getting his assets back but also making sure that his other "mistakes" are taken care of.
"Oh marone. I gotta deal with them, too, huh? Hmph."
The Lasombra Fledgling has fully made his peace with the terms and conditions set forth by his betters back in Israel- his son or his wealth. And he chose his boy over the bacon.
But now, he's got another problem to deal with: the other ones bearing the Donovan name, those supposedly "great and superior" Donovan genes. He's got to clean up those "messes," too.
As Luciano Senior is mulling a few things over his head, a spindly man in a sharp 3-piece suit approaches him and bows his head as a gesture of respect.
Luciano Senior looks up at the man and gruffly asks, "My meal here yet? Search her from head to toe before letting her in."
The spindly man nods and replies, "Yes, sir. As you wish."
A few minutes later...
A nervous-looking 18-year-old girl with braided hair and a plain dress is brought in. She's wearing a silver necklace and some cheap-looking turquoise earrings.
She nervously grips her bicep and fearfully stands a good few feet away from a vampire whose Hunger is starting to get the better of him.
Luciano Senior beckons the young woman over and says, "Come here. Don't be shy. You're too pretty for that."
The mortal takes a look around the Lasombra Fledgling's fancy abode and gulps. She walks over to him and stands before him, still gripping her bicep tightly.
Luciano Senior casually leans back and has 1 leg folded over the other. He pats the empty space on the couch and smirks, "Sit. Come on. I hate it when people stand around and do nothing. Sit. Please."
The young lass nods and sits down next to the Lasombra Fledgling. But she scoots away and keeps her eyes on the floor.
Luciano Senior chuckles and asks, "What's your name, pretty, hmm?"
Her lower lip quavers, "B--B--Betty."
Luciano Senior has a predatory smile on his face, and he regards her with a keen gaze, "Betty, huh? Bullshit. C'mon, girl...don't play these kinds of games with me. I know that's not your real name. So, cough it up or this deal's off."
The poor girl sniffles and shakily says, "I--I--my name is--Betsy."
"Hmm. That's much better. There are many things that I value in this world, but honesty and loyalty are pretty high up on that list. You should try it sometime...Betsy. It'll do wonders for you."
She's still seated across from Luciano Senior and forced to look at him when he places his cold hand underneath her chin and turns it toward him.
He leans in a lot closer and sniffs her neck, "You smell nice. Very nice. Vanilla?"
Betsy shakily nods, "Mm-hmm. G--got it from the mall with some extra pocket money."
The Shadow looks at her and advises, "You should save that up instead of buying shit. And once you've saved up enough...invest it. When I was your age, I didn't buy myself nice little things, I worked like a dog. Then, I invested that cash into...certain things. And look at me now."
To reinforce his point, he does a wide, sweeping gesture with his arms. Betsy looks around and nods slowly.
The mortal girl gulps and asks, "Are--are you gonna kill me or--or hurt me, mister?"
Luciano Senior puts his hand on his chest and proclaims, "Oh, far be it from me! Haha! No, no. I won't. Why would I? You're far too pretty for that. I just want to ask you a few questions, that's all."
"You gonna bite me, right?"
"Of course. How does a sweet, innocent, and ripe little thing like you even get caught up in this business, hmm? You don't seem to look like the type."
Betsy shrugs, "I dunno. Some of the other kids on the scene talk a--about you people. They say that i--it's a condition or something. Some kinda fetish thing, maybe, I dunno. Point is, there's good money for letting folk have a taste. And it beats donating to the blood banks."
Luciano Sr. perches an eyebrow, "Is that so? And are these other...kids prone to spilling the beans?"
Betsy shakes her head, "No, sir. They're good people. And a lotta us could use the cash, too. N--not just for stuff, but for--for groceries, school supplies--"
Luciano Senior holds out his hand, "Ah, ah, ah, ah, ah. I don't wanna hear about that. That is solely a you problem. Now...where would you like me to bite you?"
Betsy looks at him and gulps deeply. She timidly points to the side of her neck and says, "H--here, i--if you don't mind, s--sir."
Luciano Senior nods, "Very well." His fangs elongate and he leans closer to the mortal girl's neck. He wraps his arm around her shoulders and sinks his fangs into her flesh.
Her flesh, to him, feels so soft and tender. Her blood, however, is nothing short of exquisite. It's so warm, sweet, and thick. It's even got a slight tang to it.
The Lasombra Fledgling swears that he's tasting pancakes as he sucks on her neck and takes in her blood. Betsy's eyes roll to the back of her head, and she lets out a weak whimper.
After a few more seconds or so, Luciano Senior pulls away from her and licks his lips. She's swaying around and barely able to keep herself upright.
The Lasombra Fledgling holds her and strokes her cheek with the back of his hand. He proceeds to lick her wound shut, just like he was taught to do.
Betsy groans and mumbles, "Wh--why'd you stop? I--I could've gone for a--a little longer."
The Shadow stares at her indifferently, "Because I'm still new to--to all of this. That's why."
Betsy feels a bit woozy, but she's able to pull herself together and sit up straight. She asks, "So...err...let's talk payment..."
Luciano Sr. sighs and loudly summons that same spindly fellow from earlier. He firmly orders, "Pay the girl, give her a juice box, and send her on her way."
The spindly man nods and escorts Betsy away. The Lasombra Fledgling calls out to her, "Oh, and Betsy?"
Both the man and the girl stop in their tracks and look back at him.
He says, "If you ever find yourself in need of...some extra cash or some investing tips, come by and we'll talk. You're at that age, y'know? That ripe age where you should be pumping out a few smart, good-looking babies and making something of yourself. But hey, it's a crazy world out there, huh? Not like the good ol' days."
EW!
Betsy musters a weak smile and nods, "Yeah. Yeah, I--I guess it is."
Luciano Sr. grins, "Good. Now, get outta here."
Betsy almost falls over a few times but the man in the 3-piece suit steadies her and carefully guides her every step. Once she's out of the Lasombra Fledgling's sight, he slumps back and lets out a long sigh of relief.
His inner Beast growls in contentment. His mind is clear, and he feels energized. He's got a spring in his step and a smug grin on his pale face.
Luciano Donovan Senior decides to present himself to Prince Antonio Black tonight. But he's only doing so more out of pragmatic necessity than anything else.
(A part of him is a wee bit curious about this whole plot against the Prince, though.)
After having someone adjust his tie, he orders the car to be brought around and heads out the door. He gets into the backseat of his limo and tells the driver to take him to the Prince's temporary Haven.
(Someone was kind enough to share the address with him.)
Along the way, Luciano Senior can't help but think about what he's going to say to the Ventrue Prince. He's keen on seeing the guy who's been secretly running this show for a century.
He's also interested in meeting the man who's been playing a pivotal role in the city's history ever since then.
After all, Luciano Sr. does fancy himself to be an important man in Flimont City's history. Namely, turning it into a blightscape for everyone except the ultra-rich. And he wants to see how this other guy fared over the years.
Prior to his Embrace, Luciano Senior ran ponzi schemes, conned a lot of people, and did all sorts of nasty financial-related shit. Market manipulation, insider trading, tax evasion, you name it and this pendejo has definitely done it.
He's even stolen from charities and embezzled from some of the companies that he was a part of. In short, he's a real piece of work. He's not a very nice person, and that's putting it extremely mildly.
Gordon, ever since he came to work for Luciano Senior, has bent the law (and utilized every other trick in the book) to help his main client get away with a whole lotta unpleasantly vile stuff. And now that he's on his way to becoming a Ghoul, he's gotta be even more willing to break the law (and shatter the last vestiges of ethics and common sense) for his soon-to-be Domitor.
But such people are not aberrations in an otherwise functional system, they are not interlopers in the garden of free enterprise Eden, they are the inevitable end results of a system that is rotting on its goddamn feet.
They are molded and shaped by the numerous ongoing historical, social, economic, and political processes constantly at play. They are the products of a system that, for all intents and purposes...works as intended.
Capitalism is not broken or in need of reforming. It's perfectly fine! And Luciano Donovan Senior- with all of his accumulated rot and filth- is proof of that.
Up in the sky above, the stars are few and far between. The air is a bit stale on this night. A few streetlamps simply stop working. There are some sounds of sirens in the distance. The roads are anything but empty and deserted.
Large crowds can be seen near the usual spots- bars, cafes, restaurants, and bowling alleys.
Prince Antonio "Tony" Black is still holed up in his temp Haven, more out of caution than anything else. The Blue Blood paces around the place and bites his lower lip.
After counting down from some random number, he attaches his voice distorter device to the bottom of his satellite phone and calls up none other than Special Agent Harold "Harry" Cuomo.
It rings for a little while before the head honcho picks up. The Ventrue Prince doesn't hesitate to start talking, "Did you receive my message in the morning? I trust that it's been dealt with successfully?"
Special Agent Cuomo sniffs and straightens his back, "It has, yes. We got ourselves a name and took care of him. You know, if you wanted to give us something more, we'd be much obliged. Any information you have about these creatures would be quite helpful. Especially now."
Prince Antonio lifts his chin, "That's good to hear. As a matter of fact, I do. Anytime...right about...now...you should be receiving a manilla folder with the details on what you need to know about your next target."
As if on cue, Agent Heartley pokes her head in and asks, "Got a special delivery, boss. Yeah? OK." When motioned inside, she walks into the room with a manilla folder under her arm. She gives it to Special Agent Cuomo and waits.
The head honcho opens it up and looks at the contents with wide eyes. He speaks into the phone, "Who the fuck is this?"
"His name is Doctor James Collins. Look him up in those fancy systems of yours. He's 1 of them. I went in for a checkup to his clinic once and the son of a bitch tried to bite me. That's how I knew."
Special Agent Cuomo's eyebrows raise, "You seem pretty sure about that. If--if that's the case, then how are you still alive after such an encounter?"
The Ventrue Prince has a wry smile on his face, "I'm a resourceful businessman. I have my ways of staying ahead of the curve. Besides, 1 doctor in a clinic meant for bums, hobos, junkies, and losers is no match for a guy like me. Now, I hope that you and your people will do what needs to be done."
Special Agent Cuomo nods and can't take his eyes off of the contents of the manilla folder, "Yes. Yes, we will. Thank you very much, Mr. X. It was a pleasure doing business with you. This...this is pretty good stuff."
Prince Antonio cautions, "Be careful with this one. Don't underestimate him. Dr. Collins is his name. He runs a clinic for bums. He's got a receptionist who is just like him- a vampire. You know what to do, right?"
Special Agent Cuomo licks his lips and stares at the woman standing opposite of him, "We do. We'll make sure that they're both put down...and killed. Thanks again for this, sir. Really, I mean it. This is...amazing, haha!"
"Hmph. We'll be in touch. I'll have more for you. Don't worry, you'll get it. All of it." Prince Antonio hangs up and forces out a sharp exhale.
Son of a bitch just coldly relayed the address of the Tzimisce GP's clinic to a bunch of crazed maniacs. Fuckin' great. But, hey, that's just business to a guy like Tony, right? Ain't nothing personal, it's strictly business.
Prince Antonio mutters, "Try to be a wise guy with me, Collins. See how wise you are when there's a stake sticking out of your chest. Heh. Show the others what happens when they fuck with me."
And so, he sets his satellite phone down, throws himself on the couch and idly stares at the TV screen for a few minutes until he hears a limo pulling up to the front of his temporary dwelling place.
He gets up, dusts himself off, and heads out to see who it is.
Back at the SAD HQ, Agent Heartley has already found some interesting details on the Tzimisce in question.
She whistles, "We got ourselves a real blank body here, sir. Take a look at this...here's a picture of him treating a bunch of no-good hippies. Take a look at the date. Notice how he looked back then, now notice how he hasn't aged a bit since then. He's not human, boss. He's 1 of them."
Special Agent Cuomo grunts and says, "Yep. He sure is."
He keenly regards Agent Heartley and cracks a tiny smile, "You want point on this op, don't you? I can smell it on you."
She nods, "Yeah, I do, sir. And I'm not gonna shy away from my ambitions anymore. I deserve this! I've worked my ass off to get this far, and I'm not gonna back down anytime soon!"
Special Agent Cuomo assents to her determined demand, "Very well, then. You'll be leading this op, Heather. Make me proud, won't you? Get that son of a bitch and kill him...same goes for his receptionist, too."
Agent Heartley sternly nods her head and goes to make all the necessary preparations.
At the good doctor's clinic, a few hours later...
On this night, there aren't many patients. Wesley the mortal receptionist sees the last patient for the night, bids him a goodnight, and heads back into Dr. Collins's office.
He hands over a few papers to the Stoker and dutifully reports, "That's the last one for today, doc. I'll uh...hang around, y'know, just in case we get any more surprise guests."
Dr. Collins adjusts his glasses and nods plainly, "Thanks, Wes. Y'know, if you wanted, you could take the rest of the night off. I'm sure that your family would appreciate having you around, too."
Wesley shakes his head, "Nah, doc. I'm fine, really. I um...I...need this experience, y'know? Once I become a doctor just like you, I'm gonna have to get used to unusual hours, long shifts, and dealing with a lot of...broken people." He lowers his head pensively when mentioning that last part.
The Tzimisce GP offers a kind smile and says, "Well, OK. And yeah, you're definitely right about that. Dealing with a lot of broken and desperate people is going to be a big part of being a doctor. My advice to you would be this: keep your options open- you don't have to follow in my footsteps if you don't want to. There are a lot of other fields out there."
Wesley nods and smiles back, "Will do, doc." With a pep in his step, the mortal kid walks out of the vampire's office and decides to do some light rearranging. He also decides to clean his desk up a bit.
After all, it's not like he has anything better to do at the current moment.
Dr. Collins, for his part, goes back to reading some intense medical literature while taking some notes of his own. The whole plot to depose the Prince is not something that is at the front of his mind right now. It's in the back, but it's still there.
The Stoker isn't as worried about it as he should be. Roxy popped by and told him that her fellow Brujah were helping the Gangrel out in their skirmishes with the forces of the Second Inquisition.
Apart from that, the Brujah sex worker also asked when the good doctor could come by and check in on her sister. Penny seemed to be faring well since the doctor last paid her a visit. But Roxanne said that she was just making sure.
And, of course, Dr. Collins persuaded Roxanne to agree to a small checkup. Walking corpses are wonderfully complex and Dr. Collins here sure loves to study them.
As the Fiend is deep in some notetaking, he hears a banging noise followed by some crashing, clanging, and tumbling sounds. Some groaning and struggling noises follow suit.
He sighs, gets up from his comfortable chair, and goes to investigate what's going on out there. Before heading out, he grabs a scalpel and keeps it behind his back. Just in case.
When he finally leaves the room, he sees Wesley on the ground, with a long piece of wood sticking out of his chest. There's also a small pool of blood forming underneath him.
The 19-year-old's eyes stare up at the ceiling, wide, glassy, and unblinking. His mouth is agape and his whole body is stiff and motionless.
Dr. Collins gasps, "Oh my god! W--Wesley!"
A whole group of heavily armed SAD operators are present in the reception area. Agent Heather Heartley stands in front of all of them, her face unreadable.
Dr. Collins glowers at all of them in disbelief and anger, "You--you--what's the meaning of this?"
Agent Heartley raises her chin, "Dr. James 'Jim' Collins? We have an appointment...and we're just on time, it would seem huh? Your kind tend to stick out, don't they? Heh."
The Stoker looks down on Wesley's lifeless body and hisses, "You killed this boy! What gives you the right?!"
Agent Heartley unholsters her pistol but keeps her finger off the trigger, "He was like you, wasn't he? A blank body, a vampire, a bloodsucker, or whatever the fuck you call yourselves. Don't play dumb with me, creep."
Dr. Collins scoffs, "That's preposterous! HE WAS AN INNOCENT BOY! HE HAD NOTHING TO DO WITH THIS! YOU HAD NO RIGHT TO DO THAT TO HIM!"
His words are so loud and forceful that a few of the goons can't help but wince as a few of them cautiously close in on him.
Agent Heartley calmly retorts, "Oh yeah? I don't care. He put up a struggle when we came in here. You people always hide behind others just so you can get away with your crimes. Well, not anymore, sucker."
Dr. Collins growls and notices a few stake-holding thugs nearing him, "Fuck you! You call me the monster, but it's YOU people who are monsters! You're all sick and demented! You have no idea what you're doing, you fucking psychos!"
With that, he runs back into his office and slams the door shut. He quickly blocks the door with a chair and hopes that'll hold for a few...seconds, at best.
He frantically looks around for anything else (apart from a scalpel) that he can use to defend himself with. The image of the murdered receptionist is forever burned into his mind's eye.
As a result, he can barely think straight. His Beast compels him to kill these intruders and take revenge for poor Wesley.
The Tzimisce GP grabs another scalpel and hides himself behind his desk. He also kills the lights.
Agent Heartley snaps her fingers and orders the SAD goons to go and get the battering ram. 1 of them goes off to fetch it.
The Stoker's eyes take a good few moments to adjust to the darkness. His lower lip quivers and his dead heart pounds like crazy. His Beast is roaring loudly in his ears.
On the other side of the door, Agent Heartley places her hand on the shoulder of the operative holding the battering ram. She raises her voice, "HEY! We know who you are! We know all about you."
Dr. Collins does not dignify her with a response. He just crouches there, still and silent, while listening to the footsteps of the goons outside.
Agent Heartley goes on, "You saw some heavy shit in France during the Second World War, huh? Well, hey, thanks for your service, I guess. Truth is, we have dirt on you going back decades. All those naughty commie circles that you used to move around in, all those anti-war rallies, and all of those protests? Yeah, we've got pictures."
She puts in with a smirk playing on her lips, "The FBI knows everything, heh-heh. We've also got some records from when you were in medical school. Pictures are a bit grainy, but it's you, alright. It's definitely you."
Dr. Collins snarls but holds himself back from yelling out a barrage of obscenities. Instead, he grips his scalpels tightly and remains where he is.
The battering ram is being prepared to break down the door.
Agent Heartley says, "So, you can make this easy or you can make this hard." And with that, she firmly nods and the battering ram is unleashed on the doctor's office door.
It only takes a few direct hits to bash the door open. Once it comes down, a few goons hold their position while a few others pour in. Their flashlights are attached to their firearms, and they each hold a small wooden stake in their hands.
They're ready for anything. And if the stories are to be believed, they've been training for this kind of situation for a long, long time.
The GP's growl is low and menacing, "You killed a boy who--who had his whole life ahead of him..."
The living alien Blood courses through his veins and urges him to attack and kill these foul invaders. His Beast roars its demands into his brain and makes him see red.
And nothing but red.
Despite being disoriented, the ever-sharp mind of Dr. Collins was able to count at least 2 dozen heavily armed SAD goons out there.
It's an impossible fight, and he knows it. But something inside of him just...compels him to fight anyway. He doesn't know what it is, but it's certainly not his Beast.
The alien Vitae within him whispers in his veins. It sloshes around in unusual ways, and it gives him an eerie sense of comfort. It soothes him, and it promises to help him take these bastards down.
With sheer preternatural strength, Dr. Collins overturns his heavy desk and lunges at the goons. They let out cries of alarm and shock, but they keep their wits about them.
The closet operator yelps as she sees the Fiend fly right at her, "OH SHIT!"
She barely manages to fire a few rounds at him before he reaches her and slashes her throat with his scalpels. She screams as the blade tears her jugular and the other one carves up her face.
(As a doctor, the Tzimisce knows where exactly to strike for maximum effect.)
Agent Heartley has a hard time keeping track of the doctor in the dark. Her fellow goons are not having any better luck, either. She holds her pistol but takes a few steps back while still keeping her eyes in front of her.
The good doctor moves like a blur as he grabs another goon and breaks his neck with ease. A sick crunching sound can be heard as the unlucky goon's head turns 180 degrees. His body goes limp in the doctor's grasp and falls to the ground.
A few gunshots ring out, but the slashing and stabbing Fiend is already gone by the time they hit where he was standing.
The Stoker leaps on another goon and slashes his throat before the man can even get off a single shot. Someone rushes the vamp with their stake, but the doctor swiftly dodges it and jabs his scalpel right into their eye socket.
The GP hisses and screams in a rage-filled frenzy as he kills without mercy. The unfortunate soul tries to run away, but he's too slow. The doctor catches up to him and stabs him repeatedly while he screeches his head off.
The doctor's Vitae boils with sheer hate for these people and their criminal deeds. He hears the mortal's heartbeat getting slower and slower until it finally stops beating.
An operative desperately calls out, "What the fuck is this thing?!"
His cries are cut short when a pair of pointy fangs impales him in the back of the neck. He spasms and twitches uncontrollably as the life slowly (but surely) leaves him.
Once Dr. Collins has drained the bastard, he wipes his mouth and lets out a bestial roar. The scent of blood and death is thick in the air. His own clothes are stained with splotches of blood.
Someone else yells out, "It's fucking killing us! Get it! GO!"
Agent Heartley's eyes widen a little. Here she is, hoping that this op would be a simple whack, bag, confirm, tag, and wrap deal. Instead, she and her underlings are fighting for their lives against a being with strange alien blood in his veins.
Another goon fires blindly into the darkness and manages to hit the good doctor. He curses and howls in pain before slashing another unlucky bastard's throat. Blood spurts out as the agent in question chokes and wheezes until he collapses.
Agent Heartley growls, "FUCK!" she fires her pistol into the darkness. The shots go wide and miss.
Dr. Collins doesn't let up. He leaps onto a guy twice his size and rams both of his blood-soaked scalpels into his face. The man's eyes are wide, and his face is frozen in a perpetual expression of shock.
The other thugs squeeze off a few more shots before scrambling away. Now in the reception area, what's left of the SAD crew does their best to put as much distance between themselves and the raging Fiend.
Someone shakily remarks, "This fucker just killed more than half of us in--in a matter of minutes!"
Agent Heartley gets on the radio and orders the agents outside to seal off all exits. She orders the survivors inside to pull their shit together, hold their positions, and stay together. They're to kill this "thing" at any cost.
Meanwhile, the good doctor stands there in the dark, his chest heaving and his nostrils flaring. His scalpels are still clutched in his hands. His body is covered with fresh and dried blood.
A few bullet wounds are already beginning to close themselves up. The doctor walks forward with a slight wince and a slight limp in his step.
He goes through the broken-down office door and steps into the reception area. He glowers baleful daggers at the living SAD thugs in front of him.
The Tzimisce GP snarls, "You...all of you...you made me do this. I--I'm not a violent man. I don't believe in--in violence, but you crossed a line when you murdered an innocent boy! What--what is wrong with you people?! HOW CAN YOU LIVE WITH YOURSELVES AFTER DOING THAT TO A BOY?"
Some of the agents have a look of doubt plastered onto their sweaty faces. But Agent Heartley isn't having any of it. Her gun is already pointed at the monster. She wordlessly fires off a few rounds.
The bullet pierces the good doctor's shoulder. He howls in pain and staggers back. She takes aim for his head and shoots, but he dodges the shot and stumbles back into the shadows.
She curses under her breath, "Son of a bitch! GO! GET HIM!"
Dr. Collins's hair is messy and his glasses are lopsided. He takes it off and carelessly tosses it aside. His eyes are glowing, his fangs are fully unsheathed, and his Beast is roaring louder than ever before.
It wants MORE! MORE BLOOD! That's all it ever Hungers after...blood. Nothing else is capable of satisfying the eternal thirst of the Beast within.
A few goons pour in. Dr. Collins gathers his scattered composure, steadies himself, and leaps on the closest one to him. He slashes his throat with 1 of his scalpels, then he stabs the neck of another poor bastard with a sickening squelching sound.
The others open fire on him and manage to hit him again and again. The good doctor falls back, groans and yells, and lets out a long and piercing scream that sounds like it could have come from the mouth of something not of this world.
Agent Heartley growls, "WHAT THE HELL IS THIS THING?!"
A few goons run towards the wounded Fiend and try to stick a stake into his chest. But he's a lot stronger than they give him credit for, and he manages to fight them off while his wounds mend themselves.
He growls and hisses at them as he takes a few more hits, but he still doesn't give up. His anger, for now, keeps him going. It keeps him slashing, stabbing, and slaying these murderous cretins.
The surviving goons keep firing at the wounded GP until they have to reload. Dr. Collins uses this window of opportunity to make a run for them.
With a guttural roar, he pounces on a woman and sinks his fangs into her throat. While being shot at, he slurps up all of her lifeforce and uses her limp, exsanguinated body as a shield to soak up the rest of the bullets.
Dr. Collins readies his claws and runs at them with a feral scream. They shoot at him again, but he still doesn't stop. Utilizing a mixture of claws and scalpels, the good doctor is able to make quick work of them.
He viciously rips a few of their throats out, cuts a few jugulars, and impales a few hearts with his scalpels. Now coated in blood from head to toe, the Fiend falls down to his knees. His tattered clothing is riddled with bullet holes and scratch marks.
The remaining agents back away and keep their guns trained on him. Some of them are starting to have doubts about this whole thing.
An operative fearfully suggests, "M--maybe we should call for backup, A--Agent Heartley?"
Agent Heartley shakes her head and stays where she is, "No. They don't call us the best of the best for nothing. I don't plan on going out like this, not at the hands of some no-good doctor."
She glares at the operative who dared to make such a suggestion and orders, "Hold your positions. We can't let this thing escape."
The agents gulp and do as they are ordered. Agent Heartley has her pistol trained on the weakened vampire, but she doesn't fire it just yet. She slowly approaches him while still maintaining her distance.
Dr. Collins is an absolute (bloody) mess. He gets up with a grunt and glares right back at Agent Heartley. He hisses, "Which one of you animals killed Wesley, huh?!"
Agent Heartley smirks fiendishly, "It was me, asshole. I killed that thing and I'm gonna kill you, too!"
Without warning, she rushes towards the doctor and shoots him squarely in the chest. He staggers back and groans in agony. She relentlessly presses her gun into his chest and fires round after round into him.
He howls in pain but still doesn't fall down. He's not going down without a damn fight!
Dr. Collins grits his teeth and angrily shoves the mortal lady away from him. He tries to stab her in the abdomen, but she manages to dodge it. She grabs his cold wrist and twists it so hard that he lets out a pained gasp.
While his wrist is being held, Dr. Collins stops and lets his eyes roam all around Agent Heather's...arms. The goosebumps in arms that look like they've been recently shaved, the veins that seem to bulge out just a little bit, and the muscles that look just a little too toned.
The Tzimisce's Clan Compulsion, his Covetousness, goes into overdrive. Unable to take his eyes off of her appendages, he mumbles a few words, "Those are...your arms...so...beautiful...so perfect...I want them...hand them over."
Agent Heartley's face contorts into a grimace of confusion, "What the fuck? What did you say?"
Suddenly, the good doctor grabs her by the shoulder and throws her to the ground with ease. The other agents close in and pelt him with gunfire. He dodges a few shots, leaps over Agent Heartley's prone form, and lands on top of the nearest goon.
Agent Heartley gasps, "FUCK!"
Dr. Collins resumes his slaying. Without his beloved scalpels, he relies on his claws, fangs, and preternatural strength to kill these bastards. Blood spurts and gushes as the good doctor tears into these SAD goons like a wild animal.
The agents are not as easy to deal with this time around. A few of the assholes blocking the exits are ordered by Agent Heartley to come inside and provide some backup.
These new reinforcements fire at the Fiend. They manage to hit him in the leg, shoulder, and stomach.
Undeterred, the good doctor bashes someone square in the face, snatches their pistol, slides across the floor, and empties the clip into the chests of a few unlucky bastards. They fall dead almost immediately.
He then slashes another goon's throat and drains him before he can even get off a single shot. He tosses the corpse aside and lets out another piercing scream as he charges at another grouping of scum.
Agent Heartley is in sheer disbelief of how the turns have tabled. She growls and yells, "KEEP SHOOTING, YOU MORONS! GET THE STAKES AND KILL THAT THING! KILL! IT!"
Dr. Collins plunges his claw into someone's eye and takes their assault rifle. Without bothering to check how much ammo is remaining, he screams and unleashes a half-clip's worth of bullets on his opponents.
Most of them manage to duck out of the way, but a few of them are not so lucky as they are riddled with hot lead and wind up splayed out on the ground, bleeding out from their various wounds.
The rest of the SAD crew opens fire on the doctor again. He frantically throws himself behind some cover and twitches erratically.
Agent Heartley shouts, "GIVE IT UP!!"
Dr. Collins shouts back, "NEVER!"
The good doctor frantically pats his pockets and finds his cellphone. It's slightly damaged around the edges, but it's still functional enough for him to make a few emergency calls to the only 2 people he can trust the most: Mr. Lance and Dr. Sarah Tomassi.
While the Inquisitors cautiously close in, Dr. Collins quickly calls them up and asks them to come to his clinic as soon as they can. His voice is shaking as he tells them to hurry because there's no time to explain why.
Mr. Lance promises to be right there, but he mentions how dense the traffic is.
The dentist says she's leaving now and will be there shortly. She promises to drive as fast as she can.
The GP ends the call and lets out a shaky sigh of relief. He peers over and is grazed by a whizzing bullet that barely misses him.
Agent Heartley orders the goons, "GET READY!"
She keeps her gun trained on the Fiend. Her finger is poised above the trigger and ready to squeeze at any moment's notice. She's trained for this. She's spent hours in the shooting range doing nothing but landing headshot after headshot.
Agent Heartley thinks about her 2 children and tells herself that all the atrocious things she's doing are actually for the good of her kids...and the nation as a whole.
(Oh, the lies these people tell themselves! The audacity of it all!)
Her finger starts to tighten. It's almost time. Her aim is perfectly trained on the forehead of the "monster". She pulls in a deep breath, holds it in, and steadies herself.
Dr. Collins slowly rises from his cover, growling and grunting all the while.
Agent Heartley gently squeezes the trigger. The bullet escapes from the chamber, flies through the air, and hurtles towards the good doctor. With eyes as wide as saucers, he can only watch as the round speeds towards him.
He moves his head a few inches to the side, the bullet scratching his cheek instead. He winces a little.
His eyes briefly flash before returning to their normal hue.
Agent Heartley spits, "DAMMIT!"
The other agents open fire whilst a few of them attempt to ram a piece of wood into the Fiend's chest. But the good doctor is just too damn fast for them. He dodges most of the bullets and leaps out of the way of a wooden stake.
He mercilessly claws 1 of them in the throat and tears out their jugular with some intense force. While they're choking and gasping, Dr. Collins grabs another goon and crushes their windpipe before biting down on their neck.
The Inquisitors keep their wits about them and put a few more holes into the Fiend. The doctor staggers back a few times, but he still doesn't go down.
"What kind of--of--of an animal are we fighting here?!"
Dr. Collins snarls at whomever said that, "I'm not a--a monster! I'm a doctor! I save lives! Unlike you maniacs!"
Agent Heartley snaps, "Shut up!"
She fires at him again, but he's able to dodge it and leap towards another unfortunate SAD goon who goes down with a piercing scream. Agent Heartley takes aim again, but the Fiend is already rushing towards her and killing anyone in his way.
More gunfire fills the air. As does blood, bits of fleshy gore, and the sound of screams.
The GP manages to get within range of Agent Heartley. A few of her underlings fire their weapons at him, but he dodges it and slashes them with his claws.
Once the last thug goes down, choking on his blood and wheezing for breath, Dr. Collins is finally able to focus on the main prize. His eyes gleam in the sickly-lit room as he glares at Agent Heartley.
Agent Heartley is starting to realize how bad she fucked up. She can see a predatory glint in the doctor's dead eyes. She nervously gulps while a few beads of sweat trickle down her forehead.
Dr. Collins snarls, "I'm gonna make you pay for what you did...but...but...your arms. I--I want them! Both of them! Give them to me! NOW!"
She stammers, "W--what?! What kind of a s--sick freak are you?!"
"You're one to talk..." Dr. Collins sluggishly trudges towards her.
An agent on the ground groans softly and tries to reach for his pistol. The GP hears him, turns around, and kicks it away with his foot. He then crushes the goon's skull with his foot.
A soft squelch can be heard as the poor bastard's brains ooze out onto the floor. Dr. Collins then returns his full attention to Agent Heartley. And those arms of hers.
Oh, he wants them more than he has EVER wanted anything in life and Unlife. They're so...perfect. He can't put into words just how beautiful they are. And they'd probably look great when they're attached to him.
The doctor licks his lips as he closes in on the wide-eyed Agent. He growls, "I need them! GIVE IT TO ME!"
Agent Heartley has run out of ammo. Her eyes subtly drift over to a shotgun on the ground. It's close by. She could probably grab it, but she also doesn't know if she'd be able to get a shot off before this...this...THING gets to her.
Hell, she don't even know if there are any shells in that thang!
Dr. Collins walks over his messy handiwork. Blud managed to wipe out a shit-ton of operatives tonight, but he knows it's not over
With his clawed hands dripping blood, he menacingly walks towards the petrified Agent Heartley. His eyes are glowing unnaturally. His fangs are exposed, and his face is stained with splotches of blood.
Whatever wounds he might have incurred are already healing themselves or have already healed. His eyes never leave Agent Heartley's arms. He wants them so badly! He NEEDS THEM!
His Covetousness compels him to SECURE THOSE DAMN APPENDAGES BY ANY MEANS NECESSARY. His mind is swirling with thoughts and feelings that would probably be alien to the average person.
Agent Heartley takes a step back as she stares at the heaving doctor. She slowly ducks and inches her hand towards the shotgun.
Dr. Collins stops in his tracks. Agent Heartley takes this as her opportunity. She seizes the moment and snatches the gun off the ground. Before she can point it at the Dragon, he jumps out of the way.
A blast of pellets is fired at him, but he's able to evade it. The Agent looks like she's about to have a heart attack right there and then. She fires 2 more blasts erratically before running out.
Her hands tremble as she tries to load the shotgun with new shells. But she fumbles around and drops them. She's a complete wreck on the verge of falling apart.
The dead and mangled corpses of so many of her allies certainly does little to help matters.
She hurriedly scoops up the shells, loads them, and prepares to fire. Dr. Collins tanks a few of the shots as he furiously charges towards her. She cocks the shotgun, readies herself to fire again, but he tackles her and sends her crashing into a nearby wall.
He pins the Agent to the ground and yanks the gun out of her hands. She screams at the top of her lungs for help. But no one comes to help her.
Dr. Collins snarls and looks down on her with nothing but pure disgust in his eyes. He thinks about all of the people that she's hurt...all of the lives that she's ruined.
He balls his fist and bashes her in the face. She whimpers in pain and tries to fight him off, but he keeps pounding away until her face is a bloody mess.
While repeatedly punching her, he screams, "YOU KILLED HIM! HE WAS A GOOD KID! HE HAD HIS WHOLE LIFE AHEAD OF HIM! HE HAD SO MUCH TO OFFER THE WORLD AND YOU TOOK IT ALL AWAY! YOU TOOK IT ALL AWAY! YOU TOOK IT ALL AWAY--"
Mr. Lance quickly rushes over to his fellow Tzimisce and places a firm hand on his shoulder, "Doc! Doc, calm down!"
Dr. Collins restrains himself but keeps the bloodied and battered mortal woman pinned beneath him, "She killed him...she killed Wesley...I--I need to--"
Mr. Lance looks around and exclaims, "MY GOD! It's a bloodbath in here! What happened?!" he covers his mouth with his hand and stares at the carnage in utter disbelief, "I--I never thought you could be so...so..."
The doctor looks down at himself, then he glances over at his handiwork.
It isn't long before Dr. Sarah comes barging in. She grimaces at the horror show that is now the clinic of her fellow Tzimisce. She carefully steps over a few dead bodies and spots the good doctor sitting on top of Agent Heartley, who appears to be unconscious.
Mr. Lance says to the dentist, "He--I--I just arrived too. Your eyes are--are not deceiving you. He did this. All of this..." he trails off and gulps nervously.
Dr. Sarah is silent. She can only stand there and stare at the aftermath. Blood is splattered all over the walls. The floors are a complete mess. There are bits of gore scattered all across the posters and the seats. And there are so many dead bodies around.
So many.
And all of them look like they were savagely torn apart by a Garou in their Crinos form.
The good doctor gets up and lets out a long, weary sigh. He makes sure that Agent Heartley is out cold. He wordlessly goes to retrieve some chloroform and something to restrain her with.
Dr. Sarah watches him as he silently works. He empties some chloroform onto a cloth, shoves it into the unconscious Agent's nose, and waits until her breathing slows down. From there, he binds her hands and feet together with rope and tosses her over his shoulder like she's some sort of sack.
The dentist side-eyes him, "James...talk to me. Is...everything OK? Why are you taking her? Why are you doing this?"
Dr. Collins is still silent as he trudges over the bodies of the other Inquisitors. At the front door, he stops and looks back at his fellow Tzimisce who still want to know what he's planning.
He pauses and says nothing, but he gives them an icy glare.
Dr. Sarah firmly asks, "Where are you going? James...talk to me. I'm your friend here."
Dr. Collins looks at Wesley's body. A few tears of blood roll down his cheeks. He looks back at the dentist and replies, "I--I--they killed Wes, Sarah. He had nothing to do with this. But these maniacs just barged in here, thought he was 1 of us, and--and--"
With a shaky hand, he gestures to the dead receptionist and mutters, "It--It happened so fast. They got him before he could even do anything. But..."
Mr. Lance interjects, "You wiped them all out. My god!" the fearful disbelief in his tone is evident.
He points to the woman slung over the good doctor's shoulder and adds, "What do you plan on doing with her, if--if you don't mind me asking?"
It takes a few moments for the broken doctor to articulate his words, "I...I'm gonna take her someplace secluded. Far away from anyone else. And then...I'm gonna cut her fucking arms off and--and attach them to my own body."
Dr. Sarah's eyebrows shoot up, "Huh, wow. OK. So, your whole arms thing wasn't just a joke. You finally found the right one, huh?"
Mr. Lance grimaces slightly, "Did I--did I hear you correctly? How exactly are you going to carry out something like that."
The dentist lady snickers and gesticulates, "We're Tzimisce! That shit is our specialty."
She turns back to the GP and sternly tells him, "I'm offering you my help and you're taking it, James." She fixes him with a serious look.
Mr. Lance continues to silently inspect the scene. He ducks down and strokes his cheek while turning over a few bodies and rummaging through their stuff. He takes note of their guns, badges, and other belongings.
He also takes note of their state of dress: most of them are wearing what appear to be tactical vests and combat boots. His expression hardens when he sees the pointy wooden stakes scattered amidst the pooling blood.
He knows full well what those are for. And he also knows the implications of what these people really are. Or were.
Dr. Sarah rubs her intellectual equal's back gently, "What are you gonna do about...the clinic, James? Hmm? This place, for all intents and purposes, was your Unlife."
Dr. Collins grunts faintly, "Hff. I know. But right now, this damn FBI agent h--has something that I've been looking for...for--for a long time- a very, very long time."
The dentist offers, "My practice is your best bet, Jim. I have all the tools- and more importantly, the know-how- to carry out such a procedure without any hiccups."
Dr. Collins gulps, "Are you sure? You're not...busy tonight?"
"After you called up, I told my last patient to scram. We're friends, James. And friends help each other out." Her smile is oddly reassuring.
The GP lets out a small, quiet sigh of relief.
Mr. Lance speaks up, "As much as I'd hate to interrupt the quiet moment between the 2 of you, what are you...err...planning on doing with--with--"
He erratically gesticulates all over the place, "--all of this? Huh? What about that young man? What about his body?"
He takes a step back and shakes his head, "I can't believe all of this happened. My god, our enemies are utterly ruthless!"
Dr. Collins weakly nods, "Hm. Yep." He's still holding onto Agent Heartley's unconscious body, and he's holding on pretty tightly. He adjusts her and readjusts her a few times and grunts annoyedly.
She's getting heavy. And awkward to hold. But he knows he has to bear with it if he's gonna pull this off.
Mr. Lance further inquires, "And what about your clinic, doc? I'd bet that you'd have to shut it down for a few...weeks?" he tilts his head and narrows his eyes at the GP.
Dr. Collins nods again, "Yeah. Or..."
A thought flashes into the frazzled mind of the Stoker. He mulls it over in his brain a few times, his head lowered and eyes slightly narrowed in deep, deep contemplation.
Dr. Sarah smiles a little, "I know that look all too well."
Finally, Dr. Collins resolutely announces, "OK, here's what I want you to do. Mr. Lance, I'm gonna need you to do a few favors for me. You're probably not gonna like what I have to say, but I implore you to trust me on this one. Alright?"
Mr. Lance clasps his hands in front of his body and lifts his chin, "What do you need?"
Dr. Collins begins, "I have the body of our former Primogen- Galeb- behind a false wall in a storage unit that I've been renting for a while now."
The dentist lady snickers. Mr. Lance gasps softly, "My word! You're not actually thinking of--of what I'm assuming you're--"
There is a lot of heaviness in the good doctor's tone, "I probably am. Under no circumstances are you to remove the stake in Galeb's body. Mr. Lance, unless you wanna end up becoming a snack for an Elder, you WILL NOT take it out. Is that understood?"
Mr. Lance gulps and nods.
Dr. Collins proceeds, "Good. Bring his body here. Then...torch the place from top to bottom. Burn it all down."
WHOA!
Dr. Sarah lowers her head and says nothing. Mr. Lance exhales softly and is taken aback by these rather grim instructions, but he doesn't voice his concerns. He's always prided himself on being a man who's quick to adapt. And that's exactly what he does.
Dr. Collins tosses a key to the big man and reminds him, "Under no circumstances is that stake to be removed from his body. And don't forget to bring it back here."
Mr. Lance nods and quietly goes off to do just that. He hops into his SUV, and the tires can be heard screeching as he drives off into the distance.
Meanwhile, Dr. Collins turns to Dr. Sarah who still has that same little inscrutable look on her pale, pale face.
She stares back at him, "What? Something in my teeth? You're not gonna burn your Wesley's body down with the place, though? Or are you?"
Dr. Collins avoids making eye contact, "I'm...I don't know, Sarah. I just...don't know. If I take him, that's a trail that could lead them right to us."
Dr. Sarah nods, "Hm. Fair point." She glances down at the unconscious woman who's still slung over the GP's shoulder.
Dr. Collins grimly says, "I should...leave him here."
Dr. Sarah strokes her chin, "I have a few...burial plots all registered to various pseudonyms. Heh, don't ask. If you want, I could--"
A few tears of blood roll down the doc's cheeks yet again. The pain (and anguish) on his face is obvious. It's so...heartbreaking. And Dr. Sarah knows that there's nothing much she can do to alleviate it.
However, she figures that an uninvolved and innocent mortal like Wesley does, at the very least, deserve a proper and dignified burial. So, she pulls out the stake which is sticking out of his chest, then she covers him with a sheet and carefully places him in the back seat of her car.
The GP mutters, "I--I--I...thank you."
The dentist presses her lips into a thin line and silently offers to take Agent Heartley's body and toss it into the trunk of her vehicle. Dr. Collins lets out a soft sigh and nods in agreement.
Dr. Collins watches his dentist friend throw the unconscious Inquisitor into the trunk of her car and start it up. Before departing, he takes a final wistful look at his clinic, his place of work, his entire Unlife for the past few years.
A small, bitter smile creeps up on his face as he remembers all the patients who came in with some ailment or the other but strode out with a smile on their faces.
There were times when his clinic was packed to the brim. People trusted him, they relied on him. They came to him because they knew that he'd help them.
They knew that Dr. James Collins would never judge them or look down on them because of their socio-economic status, the color of their skin, sexual orientation, or some other thing that others can be so hung up on.
Dr. Sarah gently honks, "We can be sentimental on the ride, Jim! C'mon, let's go! It...it's over, it's done. Now, let's do this next thing. Together."
Dr. Collins quietly climbs into the passenger seat of Dr. Sarah's vehicle. She grins and tells him to put his seatbelt on. After he complies, the car starts up and peels out of the parking lot.
It doesn't take long for the GP to get comfortable. He sinks into his seat and lets out a heavy, weary sigh while watching the landscape outside his window- flashing lights, packed sidewalks, and tall buildings- fly by at rapid speeds.
Dr. Sarah is humming something unrecognizable.
At a traffic stop, she tells her fellow Stoker, "Don't worry. Let Mr. Lance deal with the rest. He's trustworthy, isn't he?"
"Yeah, he is."
Mr. Lance soon gets back to the clinic. His SUV almost blends in with the many SUVs parked out front. He carefully hauls Galeb's body out of the trunk and makes his way towards the entrance of the clinic.
He sets the Elder's staked body on the floor, amidst all the dead, decaying, and mangled bodies. He takes 1 last look around, shakes his head, and begins setting the place ablaze.
While the fires have their way with the clinic and all that is therein, Mr. Lance's Rötschreck screams at him and begs him to get the hell away from these searing, roaring flames.
But he fights against the urge to flee. He remains tight-jawed and resolute as he watches the entire building burn to the ground.
(It seems that the good doctor got rid of a few birds with a...single stone. Galeb is inside being destroyed by the flames. Treacherous asshole that he was, he likely deserved it. As for the agents...well, they got what was coming to them.)
Thick, black smoke billows out of the windows and fills the night sky. The entire place burns and burns and burns. It's a real shame. Once Mr. Lance's nostrils are stung, he turns his back on the carnage and hastily departs.
Dr. Sarah and Dr. Collins are still stuck in traffic. The former honks her horn repeatedly and eventually throws her hands high up in the air out of frustration.
She yells, "Fuck!"
The GP chuckles quietly, "It's Flimont City, Sarah. Traffic is just the tip of how bad this place can get."
Dr. Sarah mutters, "I know. And I fucking hate it. Truth be told, I only bought a car because I had to, not because I wanted to. Adapting to this new century hasn't been easy for me, James."
A long, long pause ensues. Dr. Collins mentally crosses his fingers and hopes that the damn cops won't stop by and check them out.
The dentist lady looks over at her fellow Tzimisce, "I'm surprised that you're so calm right now. For what it's worth, I am truly sorry for your loss. I'm not as close to my mortal receptionist as you were, but I understand the pain."
Dr. Collins says nothing. He just leans back in his seat and blankly stares off into space.
Dr. Sarah reaches out and gives his shoulder a slight squeeze of reassurance, "And I know that you're gonna need some time to mourn, but you also have to remember that you're not alone in this. And don't be worried about work right now."
Dr. Collins sniffs, "People were relying on me, Sarah. They...they...some of them even looked up to me. Hell, some of them were--were barely able to afford the co-pay on their damn insurance plans. And yet, they still came to me."
Dr. Sarah presses her lips into a thin line.
He goes on, "They came because...because word travelled about how I cared about them. I helped them, Sarah. I did my best to help them."
"You're gonna rebuild it, Jim."
"I dunno about that, Sarah...I dunno..." he trails off as the light turns green and Dr. Sarah's vehicle finally starts moving again.
Dr. Sarah says, "What you're gonna do is go to my place, get cleaned up, have some rest, and then we...get to working on that arm transplant, eh?"
"Forget the rest. Forget getting cleaned up. When--when I saw her arms, something in my head just clicked. I knew she was the one. I had to have it. Her arms...they're gonna be my arms. I just kn--knew--know it."
Dr. Sarah chuckles and shakes her head, "And to think that you were gonna carry out such a procedure all on your lonesome. C'mon, James, don't you trust me?"
Dr. Collins looks at her and weakly smiles, "You're 1 of the few people I can call a friend in this damn city, Sarah."
Dr. Sarah keeps her eyes on the road and states, "Mm-hmm. Because when you've lived in this city for so long, you start to forget what decency even looks like. Isn't that what you always say? That's why you need a friend, somebody you can trust. And just talk to...about stuff."
Dr. Collins sighs, "Hm. Yeah. I guess you're right. I guess I do. And for what it's worth, I've never shut you out of anything. You mean a lot to me."
"I know, Jim...I know."
The remainder of the drive is somber, a tad tense, and quite foreboding. The air outside is somewhat muggy and thick, but it's still bearable. Traffic subsides in a few areas, but one shouldn't get one's hopes up in that regard.
After finally arriving at the dentist's place, Dr. Collins steps out and stretches his legs while Dr. Sarah opens the trunk of her car. She takes Agent Heather's unconscious body and prepares everything needed for this...procedure.
Dr. Collins is left to take Wesley's body and place it in a large icebox that his fellow Tzimisce seems to have for whatever reason. After doing that, he steps back and closes the lid.
Dr. Sarah puts her cold hand on his shoulder, "You...wanna say a few words? Don't worry, I'll get that burial plot for him."
Dr. Collins closes his eyes, takes a deep breath, and says, "You...Wesley, you had your whole life ahead of you. It--it was never my intention to get you dragged into this, but you got pulled into this because of me. Because of who I am, and what I do."
He pauses for a moment and goes on, "You looked up to me, saw me as--as a role model. I did my best to be somebody worthy of--of such admiration. I wanted to be that person that you could look up to, that you could come to with any problems, and I'd help you find a solution."
Yet again, the sanguine tears flow down the good doctor's cheeks, "And then...those assholes came along and--and they took you away. They--they just assumed that you were like...me and they...they murdered you in cold blood. Just like that."
He lowers his head and sobs a little, "I'm sorry, Wesley. I'm so sorry. You--you didn't deserve to go out like this. N--nobody does. I'm--I'm gonna miss you, kid. I'm gonna miss you so much. I just wish that I--I could've done more."
Dr. Sarah rubs his back slowly, "You did all you could do, James. What about his family?"
Dr. Collins wipes the blood off his face, leaving smudges of red on his cheeks, "He came from a disadvantaged family. His dad is always in and out from rehab and his mom is disabled and relies on a half-broken mobility scooter to get around. His--his home is a nightmare; there's no other way of putting it."
"Hm. Sounds like you've just described a large portion of this city's population, then. Yeah, just because I'm a dentist doesn't mean that I haven't seen my fair share of horror shows of the economic variety. Let's just hope they don't do anything rash. We--we can't afford any heat right now."
"Hmm."
She looks him in the eye and asks, "What are you gonna tell them, anyway?"
"I--I don't know. How do you even break the news, Sarah? But I wanna bury him at the soonest. I'll even cover the costs--"
The dentist holds up her finger, "Ah, ah, ah. Don't. Stop. I'll pay for it, James. I'll pay for it, OK? Now, let's go and get started on...Crafting some Flesh into you, hmm?"
The 2 of them make their way into a more confined space. Agent Heather Heartley's body is firmly strapped onto a gurney. Dr. Collins is told to strip down so he can start getting ready for the arm transplant.
Dr. Sarah snickers, "Oh, c'mon. Don't be so shy. Besides, your clothes are in absolute tatters! You look like you just got done wrestling in a bear pit or something."
Dr. Collins sighs and unbuttons his shirt. He discards the blood-soaked article of clothing onto a nearby counter and continues undressing until he's in his undies.
Dr. Sarah tosses a plastic hospital gown at him and whistles, "Put that on and get your ass settled in, James."
Dr. Collins puts the gown on and joins Dr. Sarah. Both of these Flesh-Shapers stare down on the mortal SAD operative. She starts to come around, her vision slowly clearing up.
She realizes that she's been bound to a table. She tries to free herself, but it's no use. She struggles some more, but it's all in vain.
The dentist lady approaches her with a needle in hand. Her smile is sinister and her eyes are dark and empty.
She sticks the needle into the agent's neck and says, "A little primer for what's about to go down...Agent Heather Heartley."
Agent Heartley calls out, "HELP! SOME--"
Dr. Sarah clicks her tongue rapidly, "Oh, my. Loud, huh? Heh. No one's coming to save you, sweetie. As far the whole wide world's concerned, you're just another crispy corpse in my friend's old clinic. James?"
Dr. Collins looks down on the mortal with sheer, unmitigated hate. His eyes are cold and emotionless as he stares at her face.
He growls, "You took everything away from me tonight. Yet...you have something that I--I want, that I need, that I have to have. And I'm getting it. But don't consider us square after this."
Agent Heartley gulps, "I--I--I--have 2--"
Dr. Sarah dismissively waves a hand, "Yeah, yeah, we know. 2 kids. I saw the picture you carry around in your back pocket. And that somehow justifies, what, murdering an innocent boy in cold blood and then trying to destroy his--"
Agent Heartley stammers, "H--hey, I was following orders! I--the intel said that kid was 1 of them! I didn't kill him because I wanted to. It was nothing personal!"
Dr. Collins' face is still devoid of any emotion as he asks, "Who fed you this damn intel?"
Agent Heartley gasps, "A...a...I--"
Dr. Collins gets closer to her and growls menacingly, "I'm NOT in the mood for games and stutters tonight! WHO FED YOU THIS INTEL?!"
"H--his name is Mister X and--and he speaks to me and my boss with a distorted voice when he calls us! Tha--that's all I know! I swear! I don't know anything else!"
Dr. Collins snarls and steps away from the bound mortal. Agent Heartley is left to sob quietly on the gurney. Her heart is racing a mile a minute.
Dr. Sarah coldly regards the mortal's entire form, not just her arms. She licks her lips and narrows an eye, "James...mind if I steal you away for a quick word?"
Once Heather has been pacified, Dr. Sarah and Dr. Collins go off into another room and close the door.
Dr. Collins asks, "What is it, Sarah?"
The dentist has a glint in her eyes as she speaks, "You mind if I take the...other parts?"
The GP is a bit taken aback by her request, "Her...other...parts?"
Dr. Sarah clicks her tongue and shrugs indifferently, "A little project that I'm working on. She's got the right proportions and muscle tonality, if nothing else, heh. So?"
Dr. Collins rubs the back of his neck, "Yeah, sure. Go ahead."
As she prepares to walk away, Dr. Collins grabs Dr. Sarah's arm and looks her straight in the eye, "I want her to suffer. N--normally, I wouldn't stoop down- you know me. But no anesthesia, no numbing the pain, I want that bitch to feel every single agonizing moment of what's about to go down. I want her to pay for what she's done!"
Dr. Sarah plainly nods, "You got it. 2 freshly sliced arms coming up!"
It isn't long before the dentist comes back with a handheld circular saw. The blade looks gnarly, shiny, and very sharp. It looks like it can slice through pretty much anything.
Agent Heartley's eyes widen and she attempts- yet again- to wiggle free of her restraints, but it's all in vain. Yet again.
The alien-vampire dentist lady wickedly grins, "No! No! NO! You're not getting out of this one, sweetie! Not after all the sick shit that you've pulled off."
Agent Heartley starts to cry and she pleads, "Please...! My--my kids--"
Dr. Sarah shrugs, "They'll grow up without mommy. Tough luck. Maybe mommy over here should've picked a line of work that didn't involve the taking of innocent lives on behalf of some fruitless crusade to eradicate our kind! Maybe then, she'd get to see them all grown up."
The Stoker goes on, "Oh, and I'm not just gonna stop at your arms. Oh, no. The rest of you is just too good, too scrumptious to pass up on. I'm gonna harvest you for parts and put them to better use! A few organs, some bones, and I'll even toss in some of those lovely long, toned legs of yours..."
Agent Heartley's mouth shakes as the clear tears continue to flow, "Pl--please...I have a family...I--I don't wanna die...!"
"Should have picked something a lot less risky, then. You did this to yourself, honey."
Dr. Collins steps into the room, "Let's get this show on the road, Sarah."
Dr. Sarah holds up her hand, "In a minute. Heather, right? Did you know that when I was a little girl- don't ask when, haha- I was...dirt poor? My family could barely afford food, let alone a mattress. That was so long ago, though."
Heather gasps and struggles to get her erratic breathing under control.
Dr. Sarah keeps talking, "So, when we had the opportunity to have...meat. Say, chicken, for instance, right? We made good use of the WHOLE chicken, the whole fucking thing."
She leans into the mortal's ear and harshly whispers, "Every part, every bit and piece of it was used up. We didn't waste any of it. And what I see in front of me, wiggling and begging, is a pretty damn good piece of meat that's gonna be put to very good use."
Dr. Sarah flicks Heather's nose and smiles, "This is gonna hurt, a lot. Normally, you wouldn't feel a thing, but Jim over here insisted that you suffer. So, enjoy the pain while you still can, hm?"
Agent Heartley starts screaming loudly, but no one is around to hear her cries.
Dr. Sarah turns on the saw, and it starts spinning. The whirring sound of the blade is enough to make Agent Heartley's stomach churn, and her heart skip several beats.
To drown out the painful screams, Dr. Sarah recalls some opera houses that she used to sneak into when she was a child. She would find a dark, damp hiding spot and keenly listen to the music being played and sung by very talented singers.
She sways from side to side and hums the tunes (off-key), as she takes Agent Heartley's ENTIRE arm off. It's a rather messy process, but she's done it a few times before, so she's able to do it quickly and efficiently.
Blood splatters everywhere. Luckily, Dr. Sarah wears a plastic apron that protects her from any unwanted messes. She also wears a plastic face shield and a disposable mask.
Agent Heartley continues to scream and beg for mercy, but her words are useless against the creatures of the night. She made her choices, she made her bed...now let her lie in it. Let the consequences of her misdeeds catch up to her.
Dr. Sarah takes the freshly severed arm and drops it into a box filled with ice. Dr. Collins looks on in anticipation. His still heart starts to race as he realizes that this is real.
It's actually happening! He is getting what he Covets after all of this time, all of this waiting!
Dr. Collins steps out of the room and forces deep breaths in an attempt to calm his nerves. Not that he needs to breathe anymore, but still. It's an old habit.
After the next arm is...separated from the mortal's body, Dr. Collins goes back into the room. This time, he is instructed to hop onto a table so that Dr. Sarah can start making preparations for the arm transplants.
As the dentist begins to clean and prep, she asks him, "You sure you're ready for this, James? Once I put these arms in, a LOT is gonna change."
The GP nods, "Yeah. I'm sure. I've waited my whole life for this and...to finally see it happen right before my eyes...it's surreal."
Dr. Sarah chuckles, "I bet it is. Hey, hand...over your appendages. Haha!" she laughs at her own joke, her own attempt to lighten what is undoubtedly a very dark situation.
She sets both of the severed limbs aside and goes to work on preparing Dr. Collins's midriff region. He wants the arms attached beneath his own arms.
The dentist carefully makes a few cuts and uses some really tough-looking forceps to hold the wounds open. Given how quickly a vampire's wounds tend to close, Dr. Sarah has to work quickly while also maintaining precision.
During the transplant, she calls on some strange Koldunic rituals and utters some deeply eldritch alien chants that cannot be comprehended by mortal minds. Her eyes turn a deeper shade of green as she uses her powers to keep the good doctor's body from healing itself.
Agent Heather Heartley already died from the shock alone. Her armless body lies motionless on the gurney. Her expression is one of pure horror, of absolute terror.
While Dr. Sarah works, she casually asks, "Who would wanna get you, hmm? I didn't wanna talk about it in the car, but we have to have that conversation, James."
Despite the pain that he's in, Dr. Collins groans and answers, "Prince Antonio. His goddamn fingerprints are all over this. He used the SI to try and get rid of me. Bastard!"
"And now, he's gonna learn not to do that again. Don't worry, James. Once I'm done fitting these new babies into you, you're gonna get your revenge. We'll hit him hard. Harder than he's ever been hit before!"
Dr. Collins gulps, "It's...not about revenge. Despite all of this, I--we're not violent people, Sarah. We shouldn't be violent people."
Dr. Sarah kinda agrees, "But we can't be pushovers, either. Yeah, yeah, I know. Presbyterian. Either way, some people are gonna find out why we're feared so much. Especially us Tzimisce. Dragons, Stokers, Fiends, and whatever else they wanna call us, we're the reason why the dark is feared."
Dr. Collins puts in, "And the fact that our Blood is alien, too. Heh. I--thank you, Sarah. For everything." The sincere look in his eyes is enough to make Dr. Sarah blush a little.
She smiles and says, "Don't mention it, Jim. Now...this one's gonna hurt...a lot."
Much, much later...
After the dentist chick makes a few more precise incisions, Dr. Collins's Unliving body finally accepts the new arms. A lot of pain still lingers around, but he can definitely feel his new fingers wiggle and move on their own.
The red nail polish on the new limbs stands out. He's left with several nasty-looking scars, though.
Dr. Sarah states, "Don't worry, they'll heal on their own in a few nights...if not, come by and I'll have another look at them."
Dr. Collins takes a few moments to flex his new hands. He looks at his fellow Flesh-Shaper, "Thanks again for everything, Sarah. I mean it. T--thank you--urghrhg--" a sharp sensation of pain shoots through his body, and his jaw locks up.
Numbness soon follows, and he loses control of all of his arms. He slumps onto the table and can barely speak. His head feels airy and there is a weighty heaviness in his chest. His heartbeat is faint. And his eyes are slowly fluttering.
Dr. Sarah winces, "I had to use a bit of her bones to graft those arms in. Gimme a sec..."
The dentist does something out of the GP's view. She frowns and places a cold hand on his shoulder before giving it a tight pinch. A cracking sound is heard, and the good doctor lets out a sharp grunt. The pain that was lingering around is mostly gone now.
Whatever pain that was there is now gone, but a slight feeling of numbness still prevails around the good doctor's new appendages. It's not entirely unpleasant, but it's certainly not wholly pleasant, either.
Dr. Sarah coldly looks down at Heather's corpse, "I'll harvest the rest of this bitch for parts. Eyes, bone marrow, ribcage, the whole fucking chicken. Heh."
She turns to Dr. Collins and winks, "It's for a secret project of mine." She playfully brings her gloved finger to her lips and makes a shushing sound.
For his part, Dr. Collins, waves his own hand while the fingers of his new hands twitch and spasm a little. The sensation is odd, to say the least. He takes a second to inspect the red nail polish on his new fingertips.
Dr. Sarah glances in his direction and snickers softly, "You gonna keep it, James? Maybe get in touch with your feminine side, hmm?"
"Uh...I...it's still gonna take me some time to adjust to them." He holds up his new hands and stares at them for a while. The expression on his face is almost akin to childlike awe. He flexes and moves his fingers again, marveling at how natural the new appendages feel.
After Dr. Sarah puts what remains of Heather Heartley into another large ice box, she sits back on the stool besides her fellow Tzimisce with a heavy and drawn-out sigh.
Dr. Collins looks at her, "I dunno about you, but...I feel like shit."
Dr. Sarah sighs again and retrieves some of the blood that she managed to wring out of the SAD goon. She pours some into a plastic cup and holds it out to the good doctor.
He stares at her for a few seconds and mutters, "Thanks." The GP grips the cup with both of his main hands while his new hands just sort of flail around in the air.
He takes a few tentative sips and grimaces, "Hrgh."
Dr. Sarah shrugs, "Don't look at me like that, James. Of course, the blood's gonna taste stale. I work on bodies. If you want blood, find a Tremere."
Dr. Collins gulps the rest down and thanks his fellow Stoker, "Thank--thank you. I mean it, Sarah. This...it all feels so surreal right now. I don't know what I'd do without you."
Dr. Sarah rubs his back gently, "It's all good, Jim--err--James. Now, indulge me for a moment, would ya?"
"Sure."
"How's that Asian friend of yours? The one with the funny hair."
Dr. Collins replies, "Yumi, you mean? Yeah, her treatment's going fine. Why? I've been helping her, making sure that she takes what she needs to take...and so on."
She gestures to his new body mods and points out, "Well, a 4-armed guy like you is now a walking breach of the Masquerade. Right up there with the Salubri and Nosferatu, heh."
"Hm. Yeah. I'll...I should probably figure out a way to deal with that. Maybe I could get Brock to help Yumi for a while, until the whole thing blows over. I dunno, I'll think about it."
"Isn't she already staying with your Childe? And you told me that he's not exactly on speaking terms with you, is that right?"
"Yeah, yeah. It's--I understand why he's being like that. But you're right, I have to think about...my options. Going forward, there's a lot of adjustments that'll have to be made."
Dr. Sarah chuckles, "Haha! Ya don't say! I don't mean to interfere, but that Childe of yours is gonna have to learn to accept what's happened to him. I--I mean, we saved his life for Pete's sake! Don't get me wrong, Brock's a swell guy who's going places, but..."
She glances at his new limbs and says, "...you're his Sire now. Was he serious when he told you that he'd have preferred to die that night or was it just him brooding? Hm?"
Dr. Collins pauses and thinks about the question, "He--he was serious."
"Hm. Now, about the obvious...how are you gonna move around at night, hmm? Hey, I'd love to drive you around. But...I'm a dentist and I intend to keep doing it for a very, very, VERY long time."
The GP weakly shrugs, "I'll think of something. I'll find a way, Sarah. Truth be told, Yumi and Brock are my priorities right now. I--I lost everything- and everyone- else that mattered to me tonight. Those 2 are--are all I've got left and I feel responsible for them."
Dr. Collins rubs his face and exhales heavily, "And I have to go through the proper channels to make sure that her treatments are covered. Getting free of opioid addiction is no easy ask. And if anything--anything happens to--"
Dr. Sarah is quick to reassure him, "Shh, shh. It's gonna be fine. Maybe you should go through with what you told me in the car- turn Yumi into your Ghoul. Now that Brock's...graduated, you'll need a replacement capable of handling your daylight affairs."
She adds, "And other...things, too. Heh. And the best way to ensure their safety is by turning them."
The dentist lady has a point, but Dr. Collins doesn't say so. He simply nods and mulls over her words.
Dr. Sarah keeps going, "You should also get yourself a new ride, too. With tinted windows, preferably. Haha!"
"Heh, yeah. Sarah...before any of that, I want Wesley to get a proper and decent burial. He didn't deserve any of this. He was a--an uninvolved mortal...and I went out of my way to ensure that he remained in the dark about my...my...true nature. He was innocent in all of this."
The dentist thoughtfully nods, "He shouldn't have died for a battle that he had nothing to do with. Yep. Don't worry, James. I'll make all the arrangements."
With some bitterness in his voice, the GP remarks, "Y'know, I feel kinda...sick or--or wrong, maybe. The thought of having the arms of Wesley's killer attached to my body is...it's almost disgusting. Is that normal? Am I supposed to feel that way?"
Dr. Sarah answers, "It's complicated. Something clicked in your head when you saw that bitch's arms- you wanted them and now you have them. It's perfectly normal to feel disgusted and repulsed by the idea, but at the same time, there's a sense of satisfaction."
The good doctor takes a moment to wiggle himself to a more comfortable position and says, "I guess...you're right. But there's still that lingering feeling that won't go away soon. I feel wrong...and deeply relieved at the same time."
"Yep. That's pretty much how it goes. It'll pass. Trust me. It might take time to pass, but eh...we're Kindred. Time is, at most, a polite suggestion to us."
A long pause follows. The 2 Tzimisce spend a few moments talking about this and that, some developments in the fields of medical science, what the future may hold, and so on.
Dr. Sarah implores for her fellow Stoker to stay over. She'll make the necessary day-sleeping arrangements and whatnot.
Dr. Collins agrees because it's never good manners to turn down the hospitality of a Tzimisce, let alone one whom he considers a close friend (and intellectual equal).
Somewhere else...
Luciano Donovan Senior has just come back from a very...interesting conversation with Prince Antonio. Apparently, they once met at some kind of a benefit dinner many, many moons ago.
The Lasombra Fledgling recalls their brief encounter and the conversation that ensued. The nitty-gritty eludes him at the moment, but he gets the overall gist of it.
He remembers that the Ventrue's attitude towards him was...off, to say the least.
The sleek limo drives along streets that pendulum between deserted and packed. Luciano Senior smugly looks at the city going past him in a slow blur of lights, lit neon signs, and many other sights.
After the meeting with the Prince, Luciano Senior's impression of the man goes up, but only marginally. A part of him is still deeply intrigued by the whole plot being cooked up against him.
So, he has his fellow Lasombra- Dona and Eli- look into that angle a bit more.
As the limousine chugs along, Luciano Senior starts to see the writing on the wall, so to speak. While he vacantly stares out the bulletproof window, a few things swoosh through his mind.
A police car is briefly illuminated by the streetlights. An ambulance- sirens and all- zooms by and almost runs a few pedestrians over.
"Hmph. That Antonio...he's all talk and no balls. I still dunno about whoever's trying to depose his sorry ass, but I sure as hell am keen on finding out who they are."
He pauses and muses, "I gotta seek these conspirators out...and maybe, just maybe, cut some kind of a deal for myself. Hm. Yeah. Now, to go check in on Pym...my future Ghoul..." the Shadow trails off and adjusts his watch before letting his head loll back against the headrest.
Things...are happening in this Domain.
Chapter 36: Embracing All- Part 1
The sun makes its grand entrance as the darkness of the prior night gives way to a bright, radiant, and hot summer morning. Birds happily sing and chirp from atop tall, skinny trees.
A shimmering haze hangs over the city. The heat is almost unbearable. A few citizens complain about the rising temperatures and how they feel that the weather forecasters are getting all the forecasts wrong lately.
(Most forecasts were far too demure in their estimates).
As the morning drags along, the Kindred are deep in their sleepy times. Their bodies are as still as the grave itself. They rest and prepare to stalk the night when the time is right.
Tributes pour in for Dr. Collins. After the clinic fire, many have come to the assumption that the good doctor and his hardworking receptionist perished in the flames.
Numerous charred remains are discovered after the fire was put out. The bodies are yet to be identified. It's quickly declared as some kind of a faulty electrical fire that got out of control and nothing more.
Many of the people are visibly saddened by the news. They have no idea that Dr. Collins is very much alive and kicking. Well, not kicking right now. And technically, he'd tell you that vampires aren't "alive" in the more literal sense of the word.
(No heartbeat, no pulse, no breathing, and so on and so forth).
But the fact that there's been a tragedy in Flimont City has already gotten a lot of attention. Scores of people are gathered around the clinic- particularly those people who knew the Tzimisce as their doctor, their physician.
They come to pay their respects, they come to cry, and they come to offer their sympathies. A small vigil is laid out in front of what was once the clinic's entrance. Fresh flowers, handwritten notes, and drawings are piled up and displayed.
A few media people are milling about. The local stations and networks are mostly interested in running with this story.
An ordinary-looking guy who calls himself "Big Joey" stands in front of a camera, barely able to hold back tears as he points to the now-charred remains of the building.
Big Joey sniffles and blubbers, "And--and it's--it's such a shame. He was a good guy, y'know? Treated my back pain, gave me some solid advice on how to handle my gout, and...he--he was a swell guy. Yeah. I'm gonna miss him. And Wes, too. Kid was just err...19, yeah. Shame."
Reporters and camerapeople approach a few others and ask if they would also like to say a few words and tell the news what this clinic and the doctor therein meant to them.
Some are teary-eyed, some are bewildered, and some are just plain angry.
"He helped a lotta people get well, stay healthy, and...and it's a damn shame that he went out like that."
"Hey, hey, look at me! I want you to investigate this! How does a clinic come burning down, huh? HEY! COME BACK HERE!"
"My kid...wasn't doing too well. A few other doctors were pretty confounded on what was ailing her. A friend of the family suggested that I bring my lil girl over to Doctor James Collins. Well, lemme tell ya...nothing short of lifesaving! My kid's starting high school next week. And it's all thanks to him."
"Poor Wesley..."
"I...still don't have much faith in the American healthcare system, but it was people like Dr. Collins who kinda...give me some hope, ya know?"
"Dr. Collins was a great man, a true healer. He could be a bit...curt with you at times. And his bedside manner could have used a bit of...tweaking, but he was a great man, nonetheless. I was a regular of his."
The news people definitely have a LOT to work with. Notes are furiously jotted down and anyone even going near the impromptu vigil is stormed by a whole slew of questioning reporters.
Mics and recording devices are shoved way too close to faces. Large cameras compete for a perfect angle and shot. Reporters shout and bark questions while others stand back, clicking and snapping away.
Back at the SAD HQ...
Special Agent Cuomo jabs his thumb on the remote control's power button and exhales sharply, "I'm done. I'm done, I'm done, I'm done! These fucking people. They--they actually liked him? He was a goddamn vampire for crying out loud!"
He paces around the room and mutters, "And where the hell is Heather? She still hasn't reported in. They were...dozens of charred remains found in that building, and no one's STILL found a damn trace of Heather Heartley."
He stops and places his hands on his hips. The head of the operation wonders out loud, "Where the hell are you, Heather? C'mon, don't abandon me now."
Heh.
In time, she will be declared MIA. For now, Special Agent Cuomo is hoping that she's not amongst the charred remains.
He resumes his pacing as numerous thoughts swirl through his head. The building burned down, but he didn't give any orders to torch the place. So...where did the fire come from?
Strange.
For now, the perplexed Special Agent fields some phone calls from the higher-ups and goes into damage-control mode. Certain contacts within the FCPD (and other adjacent departments) are told to send any relevant files, reports, and information DIRECTLY to the SAD.
Special Agent Cuomo even takes some time to speak with the Division Director while having his lunch (Philly cheesesteak sandwich).
With food still in his mouth, he complains, "They actually liked this fucking blank body! Not my first time seeing the civvies mourn over a likable bloodsucker, but THIS is something else! Son of a bitch really had his claws in these schmucks, huh?"
The Division Director isn't in too much of a mood for the subordinate's complaints and whining. Orders are given to not only locate Agent Heather Heartley but to also continue the so-called "good work".
After eating, Special Agent Cuomo washes down his chunky meal with some fizzy grape cola. He lets out a slight belch and throws his head back.
While the afternoon sun streams through the windows, he sits back, relaxes, and lets the food digest. He turns on the news and wrinkles his nose when he hears even more tributes for the "late" Dr. Collins.
With a grunt, he changes the channel and tunes in to some football.
"Ah. Much better. Now, let's see...oh, come on! You fumbled the damn ball, man! Shit!"
As he gets more engrossed in the game, the Special Agent slowly forgets about his current predicament(s).
Like Agent Heather Heartley, his time will soon run out.
The evening could not come sooner, but it brings with it no respite from the ceaseless summer heat. The mugginess persists as the sun dips beneath the horizon. The streetlights and neon signs flicker on. The streets are busy once again.
Many Kindred awaken and start their nightly routine. A lot of them head out for work, to a prime feeding spot, or to simply...waltz around.
(Not that there's much in this damn city to admire, though).
Dr. Collins awakens with a light groan. He looks down at his new arms and blinks a few times. The surreal disbelief is still very much there, but now he's been hit by a sense of deep realization.
Dr. Sarah comes to him after a few minutes. She's wearing some kind of tattered nightgown that has been stitched numerous times over. It's quite frayed and ragged, but it covers the dentist's lithe body down to her ankles.
The GP struggles out of the makeshift bed and mumbles, "Hrgh. Hey, Sarah. Sleep...well?"
The dentist smiles, "Like a corpse. See the news yet, Jim? You're on it."
Dr. Collins weakly says, "Oh. W--what are they saying."
Dr. Sarah nods him over, "C'mon and see for yourself."
The good doctor gets a little misty-eyed when he hears the tributes of many of his patients. He knew each and every one of them by name. He still remembers what was ailing them, the solutions devised to treat their various conditions, and so on and so forth.
His sharp mind rarely forgets a thing. And only now- while sitting in front of a small TV- does Dr. Collins realize just how much he mattered to ALL of these people.
The Tzimisce wonders if ordering Mr. Lance to torch the place was a wise move. Still, it's too late for wistful reminiscing. There wasn't much of a choice, after all.
Dr. Collins is still determined to ensure that poor Wesley receives a proper sendoff. Even now, he shudders when he remembers Wesley's body lying on the floor, a wooden stake sticking out of his chest.
It was a very traumatic experience. The good doctor feels as though he's lost someone very dear to him. In a way (but not quite), Wesley was a Touchstone.
Dr. Sarah keenly watches the news. With a narrowed eye, she remarks, "You were a lot more than just a good doctor, James."
Dr. Collins's gaze is cold and hard, "He was an innocent boy...he...Wesley..."
Dr. Sarah exhales softly and rubs the back of her fellow Stoker, "I know, I know. Don't worry, I'll take care of all the necessary arrangements. He's got family, doesn't he?"
"Yeah...but I--I dunno if I can even face them--"
The dentist snickers faintly, "James, you won't be able to face anybody without them either gawking at ya or running AWAY from you. But hey, that's just me."
Dr. Collins shakes his head, "I'm sorry, Sarah."
"Pfft. Don't be. You're still a human being. Right now, you're going through...grief, I guess. But you'll get over it. You have to."
Dr. Collins looks at his new arms, "I'll need--ah, shit. Everything...this changes everything, doesn't it?"
Dr. Sarah plainly nods, "Mm-hmm. Hope you like cutting holes in all your clothes, haha! Also, trenchcoats. Invest in a few. The longer, the better."
"Yeah. Good point. I still have to inform a...select few people that...I'm not exactly a pile of ashes. Brock, Roxanne, Clarice, Pedro...and a few others, too."
Dr. Sarah places her chin on her palm and stares at the small TV, "And you better get serious about making a move against that Ventrue slimeball. So, you're sure it was him who orchestrated this?"
The GP scratches his cheek, "Yeah. Well...yeah. I'm pretty sure, yeah. We heard as much from...whatever-her-name-was. Speaking of, you're gonna, what, harvest the rest of her for parts?"
Dr. Sarah coldly nods, "Yeah, I am. I might move all my appointments to tomorrow night. That way, I have some nice, quality time with some prime cadaver, heh. I might even tell my receptionist to go the salon- my treat, haha!"
"You uh...need any help?"
"Nope."
"Fair enough. And once again, I cannot thank you enough, Sarah. I owe you a hell lot more than 1 for--for all of this."
"Don't mention it, James. Now, if you'll excuse me, I'm going to get dressed. I don't have anything in your size, so you're just gonna have to sneak back to your Haven." Dr. Sarah stands up, pats his back, and saunters off to the bathroom.
"Yeah. I'll figure something out."
As he sits in the living room and watches the news, the GP is in a bit of a daze. His Hunger gnaws at him; having these extra arms now means that he'll need a little more blood than usual.
And his stash was already running kinda low owing to the fact that he's been sharing it with his Childe.
After about half-an-hour, Mr. Lance arrives to check in on his fellow Tzimisce. Needless to say, his jaw hits the floor when he notices the good doctor's new arms.
The big man is taken aback and almost stumbles over a chair, "My word! By god!"
Dr. Collins spreads all 4 of his arms out and smiles feebly, "Yeah. Surprise, surprise. It's OK. I'm still me. Listen, I'm gonna need some help moving around and. If you're too busy, I could always--"
Mr. Lance has an uneasy look on his face when he holds out his hand, palm facing outward, "I--I made a promise to steer clear of such things. Vicissitude, Flesh-Crafting, or whatever name we--we have for it. And I intend to uphold that promise."
After a brief pause, Mr. Lance sharply sighs, "But I'll help you, so long as you don't get me wrapped up in any of...that stuff."
Dr. Collins equably promises, "Yeah. Yeah, I can understand that. Don't worry, I'll never make you do something that you're not comfortable with. All you have to do is clearly tell me when you are or aren't comfortable with something."
Mr. Lance firmly nods, "I can work with that, yes. And um...how are you faring?"
Dr. Collins shrugs, "A bit peckish, but I'm doing great overall. And I'm still getting used to--"
He wiggles his new fingers a little, "--well, these. It feels strange, but it also feels deeply satisfying at the same time. It's like this terrible weight has been lifted off my shoulders."
Mr. Lance lets out an uneasy chuckle and adjusts his shirt's collar, "I see. Well, what's our plan now?"
Dr. Collins slowly exhales, "I wanna go back home, call a few close friends and allies up and tell them that I'm still in this world. They'll want to know that I'm still...here."
Mr. Lance queries, "Apart from that, is there anybody else who you'd like to contact?"
Dr. Collins is silent for a moment and replies, "Yeah...a Banu Haqim Justicar. It's time, Mr. Lance. It's time that we got rid of that crazed Ventrue. He's going to pay for what he's done."
The big man is a bit taken aback by the GP's tone, "Uh...uh...sure thing. Of--of course. If that's what is best for all of us, then I shan't interfere. This plan that all of you have been cooking up...it's beneficial to our Clan, too? Right? I mean, I'm just a guy, but I'd like to help in any way possible."
Dr. Collins merely nods, "Don't worry, Mr. Lance. Everything's gonna turn out well in the end. Now that that burden has been lifted off my shoulders, I see things a whole lot clearly. We'll...we'll make this work, don't you worry."
There is an oddly serene confidence in the GP's voice. The look on his face is one of peace, of utter tranquility. Some hints of anguish and pain linger, but there's something else, something...alien in his eyes and overall mannerisms.
Mr. Lance nervously clears his throat and goes to see Dr. Sarah and speak with her for a few moments.
After he's done clarifying and going over some things with the dentist, he slowly escorts the 4-armed doctor to his SUV and helps him get situated in the passenger seat.
Dr. Collins awkwardly gets the seatbelt clicked in and takes a few moments to make sure that he's all buckled in. Mr. Lance starts the car and they're on their merry way.
Dr. Collins is advised to slump down the seat a bit and keep his new hands away from sight. Mr. Lance takes routes that he knows will be less infested with traffic or worse...cops.
The good doctor only wishes to inform CERTAIN people about surviving. Close friends and allies alike will need to be reassured that Doctor James "Jim" Collins is still in the game.
The Great Game.
Once back in the familiar comfort of his own Haven, the Tzimisce GP trudges over to his stash of bagged blood and rapidly gulps down the contents therein.
He then takes a nice shower and makes sure that his face and body are completely clean. He feels a little frail tonight. And that's because he didn't day-sleep on or near the object that Grounds him.
Regardless, he wipes himself down with a towel and chooses his clothing for tonight. After some initial indecisiveness, he settles on a butter-yellow buttoned shirt, corduroy pants, and brown leather shoes. He's also wearing a simple belt.
The doctor has to get a pair of scissors and make a hole in his beloved shirt- that's the only way he can accommodate his...2 new arms. The other pieces of upper-body-adjacent clothing in his wardrobe will likely need some similar alterations going forward.
Dr. Collins's wardrobe consists of what one could probably come to expect from a 60-something alien-vampire man who spends much of his time tending to other people's health and wellbeing. He is quite plain in his style, too.
The Tzimisce GP takes a moment to stare at the red nail polish that is still on the fingers of his new hands. He's not sure if he should remove it or not, so he just shrugs and leaves it as is- he's got other, more important matters occupying the bulk of his mind right now.
He gets his telephone and begins to call up a few friends and close acquaintances. He's cautious and measured with his words, only telling them the bare minimum and strongly admonishing them to keep what they hear under their hat.
For now, at least.
When the doc tries to call his closest co-conspirator, Roxanne, there is no reply. And that's because the Brujah lady of the night is...with a client. A very...clingy client, to say the least. The kind of guy who she can't just push off her lap. The kind of guy who can't take the fuckin' hint.
Miles away...
This seedy motel has seen better mornings, afternoons, evenings, and nights. It's wide, 2 stories tall, deserted, grimy, and crumbling apart. The cracks on the walls are hard to ignore.
Discarded joints are strewn all over the floor. There's no swimming pool to speak of, well not anymore. Dried grass surrounds the area, and a few plastic bags fly around along with the occasional tumbleweed.
This motel is frequented by people who couldn't afford nicer places or don't really care much about the rather dubious reputation of what remains of this establishment.
At a room on the far side, some moaning, grunting, and squeaking can be heard. 2 people are going at it like rabbits.
Roxanne is naked and her cold body is on top of Marcus, who has his erect cock inside her. As he thrusts into her, she digs her icy fingers into his bare shoulders.
The Brujah sex worker bites her lower lip and moans out as she feels the throbbing penis inside her. She squirms a little as she continues to match Marcus's rhythm.
The couple continues to shag and groan, their bodies are pressed up against each other, their naked flesh is sliding together, their eyes are closed, and their minds are in the now, the sexy moment.
Roxanne's hands slide down and she lifts Marcus's ass and pushes herself on him. He groans and thrusts into her. Roxanne's back arches and she looks down at the mortal man.
She feels his cock throbbing and pulsating, she feels it twitching, and it feels so good. The Punk strokes his face and continues to ride him. Her legs tremble a little.
At the motel's entrance, a middle-aged man in a trenchcoat, fedora, and stylish eyeglasses surveys his surroundings. With malicious intent punctuating each and every step, he makes his way to where Marcus and Roxy are having sex.
While briskly walking, he pulls out a silenced pistol and readies it by pulling the hammer back and checking the chamber.
The trenchcoat-clad assassin makes his way up the grimy stairs and quietly approaches the room. He swivels his head to ensure that there are no potential witnesses nearby.
He quietly takes the gun and raises it at the door. He briefly gulps, breathes out, and swiftly kicks the door down.
Marcus and Roxanne are caught unawares. Roxanne yelps when she sees the muzzle pointed at her and screams. The hitman takes aim for Marcus and fires 3 rounds into his chest.
Marcus's body jerks, his eyes open, and he spasms a few times. His blood splatters all over the cheap wallpaper and the bedsheets. Roxanne's eyes widen in shock.
The hitter grins and steps inside. Without hesitation, he puts 3 rounds into the Brujah's stomach. She tumbles over and goes down with a soft groan.
As she falls, her assailant shoots Marcus 1 more time in the chest. He then swiftly surveys the room and checks the naked man's strewn clothes, but there's nothing of note.
With a frown, the assassin pulls out a handkerchief and wipes the gun clean. Roxy struggles to get back up on her feet. While still in the nude, she staggers over to Marcus and clutches his unmoving body.
"No...no, no, no, no, no, noooo!"
The hitter, codenamed Mr. Yellow, looks on in disbelief. He lets out a slight gasp and readies his pistol. He's about to take another shot when...
Roxanne lets out a strangled and raspy scream, "Nooo! RAAAAAAARGH!" her fangs pop out of her mouth and her claws elongate. She turns and snarls at Mr. Yellow.
The assassin's eyes widen, he stumbles back, and he's not quite fast enough. With a trembling hand, he tries to pop off a few shots, but they just...miss.
The prostitute's eyes flare and she lashes out. Mr. Yellow can't defend himself from what's about to go down.
Roxanne pounces on the bastard and violently slashes at him. The trenchcoat is sliced to ribbons, as is the shirt underneath. Blood spurts all over her cold and naked body.
The bullet wounds seemingly mend themselves, much to the hitman's surprise and confusion.
Before Mr. Yellow can stagger away, Roxanne bites his throat. A muffled scream is heard. Roxanne can feel her Violent Temper surging to never-before-experienced levels.
She bites down on the neck and her fangs sink in. Warm, sticky blood fills her mouth. Mr. Yellow grits his teeth and struggles to fight this naked bloodsucker off him, but it's no use.
The gun clatters on the floor. It's quickly forgotten about. Roxy screeches and continues to bite down on the mortal's throat. Blood leaks out of her mouth.
After a while, the body stops resisting. Once Mr. Yellow breathes his last, Roxanne pulls away and viciously swipes a chunk of his face off with a swift claw slash.
Roxy pants and shudders as she tries to calm herself down. She's covered in blood, her hair is a mess, and her eyes are glowing with the raging fury of the Beast within.
She's still in a bit of a haze when she turns and looks at Marcus. His wheezes are barely perceptible. He feebly raises a trembling hand to the air and his fingers twitch.
Roxanne hurries over to him and cradles his head in her hands. She's openly crying tears of blood.
Marcus looks up at her with glassy eyes, his vision fading, "Roxanne..."
The Brujah sex worker sobs, "I--I'm sorry, Marcus."
"You--you don't have to...to...put on the--the red--red light. D--days are...over. Grrrfhgh...don't have to sell...body...tonight--grrfh...I can--can take care of--of you--"
Roxy gently shushes him, "Shh, shh. It's--it's--" she stumbles on her words and is far too frazzled to think about what to do next.
Marcus looks up at the ceiling, "Roxanne, I'm glad...I'm glad that I got to...know you, girl. I...love--" he stops midway and his head lolls to the side as his eyes roll back into his head.
Roxy wails and cradles his dead body. With sanguine tears still streaming down her face, she looks at her forearm and decides (against all that is seemingly proper) to slash her forearm.
With a nasty gash, she drips her Blood onto the deceased man's open mouth and watches as the Vitae drips down his throat.
Nothing initially happens.
She permits a few more sanguine drops to spill down his throat.
The Blood starts to...rumble within his body. A foul odor seeps out of his chest wounds and the gash on Roxy's forearm slowly closes.
With a long gasp, Marcus stirs. His eyes widen to an alarming degree, and he lets out a piercing screech. He immediately chomps down on his Sire's forearm and hungrily drinks some of her Blood.
After a few moments, the newly made Brujah's post-Embrace Frenzy simmers down. His entire body feels like a raging inferno. His insides feel like they are being consumed by molten lava.
And his skin is burning. Burning like the hottest of the suns.
Roxanne holds her Childe close and gently sobs, hoping that she made the right call.
As the night slowly passes, Marcus Lancaster will slowly come to learn some hard truths about his new condition. This is an unauthorized Embrace, but...whatever.
Roxanne quickly washes herself and gets dressed. Marcus struggles to lift himself off the bed. He groans and mumbles, "What...happened to...me? Why do I feel like...like..."
The Brujah sex worker looks at him with some pity and murmurs, "Shh. Don't worry, Marcus. I--I had no other choice."
The Fledgling raises his voice at his Sire, "WHAT DID YOU DO TO ME, ROXANNE!? Why do I feel like shit on--on the inside! I feel like I'm on fire, like I'm BURNING UP! You did this to me, didn't you? What the fuck is going on!?"
She replies in a meek tone, "Shh, shh."
Marcus finally stumbles out of the bed. He feels like a stranger in his own damn body, and it pisses him off to no end. He growls at his Sire, "Answer me! What the fuck did you do!?"
Roxanne swallows the lump in her throat and winces, "I saved you. You're welcome."
Marcus looks at the dead assassin and grimaces, "Who--who was this fool? A client of yours?!"
Roxy shakes her head, "Nope. Not anybody I recognize. He shot at you first. So, it's safe to say that he was after you...and I just sorta happened to be...here, with you."
Marcus shakes his head, "I don't believe it. Who'd wanna hurt me? Ugh, I--Roxanne...WHY DO I FEEL SO ANGRY, SO WRONG ON THE INSIDE!?"
She exhales softly and quietly says, "You're a Kindred, Marcus. A--a vampire of Clan Brujah. I made you 1 of...us. I saved your life, dammit! Don't you see that?"
He stares at her and his face contorts. His new fangs extend and his eyes start to glow with the inner rage, "I dunno what none of that shit means!!!"
Marcus immediately keels over and clutches his face. His baby fangs are still struggling to extend to their full length.
Roxanne calmly walks over to him, "You're a Kindred now, Marcus. A Brujah, just like me."
The Childe shoves his Sire away viciously and snarls at her. He heaves and shakes his head, "I...I don't know what the fuck you're saying--"
Roxy merely gathers up all of her client's clothes and tosses it at him at once, "Shut up and get dressed. We--we can't stay here. I PROMISE to explain everything to you, OK? But right now, I NEED YOU to trust me. Please, Marcus, it--it's for your own good."
Marcus sneers at the sex worker, "Don't you dare tell me what's good for me! I'm sick and tired of that shit! Why do you think I come see you in--in the first place, huh?! TO GET AWAY from all those fools who think they know better than me! AND now you're saying that you know better!?"
He snidely puts in, "Bitch, you don't know shit."
Roxy lets out a frustrated groan and pleads with him, "It's not like that! Now quit your goddamn bellyaching and put some fucking clothes on. I'm telling you, Marcus. This isn't gonna end well unless you trust me and come with me!"
Marcus huffs a sigh and storms off to get dressed. He angrily drags the clothes along and slams the bathroom door shut. Once he emerges, he hobbles over to the where the dead hitman's pistol lays and stares at it for a few seconds.
Roxanne sighs, "Good. Now, we gotta get the hell out of here. And forget paying me for the rest of the night. I know you hate instructions- that's a recurring theme with us Punks- but I'm gonna take you to some people. They're good people, trustworthy enough that they can teach you all that you need to know about being a Kindred. Got it?"
Marcus is still pissed off, "You--you don't know me, Roxanne. I thought that we had a thang going on, but you was just like the rest of them in the end, weren't you?"
Roxanne angrily shoves her Childe up against the wall and growls into his face, "Listen, Marcus! If you wanna stay dead, I'm more than happy to accommodate! I've already done you a favor, and that's more than what I should have done for--for ANY goddamn client of mine."
She intensely adds, "And if a rich, out-of-touch stockbroker like YOU thinks that he knows ME, then maybe he's got another thing coming. Now, let's GO before I decide that you're not worth all the goddamn hassle!"
Her lower lip quivers and she leans for a surprise kiss. Marcus is genuinely caught off-guard by that, but he eventually gives in and kisses her back with as much passion and fury as she does. Tongues swirl and struggle for dominance and little moans of pleasure are exchanged.
When they separate, Roxanne wipes some of the blood from her mouth and cheek. Marcus turns his head away from her and feels a strange sensation washing over him.
As far as he's concerned, Roxy has the final say, and she's going to lead him through this whole vampire schtick. He still struggles to walk, but Roxanne instructs him to let the Blood do its work.
The Fledgling is reluctant and skeptical, but he lets his Sire lead the way. The wary look on his face tells the entire story.
As Roxanne walks to the exit, she feels a slight sting in her chest. The bullet wounds are mostly closed, but a small pain still lingers.
The pair walks down the steps and gets into the Fledgling's car. Marcus still doesn't know where they're headed. Since he's feeling all sorts of woozy, Roxanne drives his car.
While driving down a particularly long stretch of road, Roxanne begins, "I wasn't always forthcoming with you when we were uh...together, Marcus..."
Marcus's gaze is downcast and vacant, "No shit."
Roxy sighs and shakes her head, "This isn't an easier for me, y'know? I--I get a million things going on. I could've easily left you there to--to die. And--and I'm not too proud to admit that. You should be a little grateful, Marcus."
"Hmph. And what exactly was you not honest about, huh?"
The lady of the dark night plainly answers, "I'm a vampire. Or a Kindred. Or Cainite or the million other names that people have for...our kind. We're largely divided into Clans. We'll deal with Sects later. There's a whole lotta politics, but I'll spare you the details."
Marcus groans and clutches his chest, "Ugrrrh. Pains. So. Fucking. Much. Grrrr. And you, what, made me a vampire?"
"Something like that, yes. Again, I'll spare you the finer details. You're welcome, by the way."
The rest of the drive is just as awkward and tense. So, who put out the hit on Marcus Lancaster?
Well, it was his grandfather, Clarence Lancaster. That nasty old coot had gotten tired of his grandson's backtalking, fiery remarks, and his general attitude. The old man decided that he was going to pay 1 of Mr. Strickland's goons to do the dirty deed of ending a life.
A very capable and efficient professional was watching Marcus for a few days (and nights). Now that very same capable professional is an exsanguinated mess in a sleezy-ass motel room.
A few roaches and rodents already nibble away at and crawl over Mr. Yellow's corpse.
Marcus will likely never know that it was his own grandpapa that called in the hit. And one doesn't wanna imagine what a pissed-off Brujah like him could do IF he did find out.
Once they reach the downtown proper, Roxanne begins to explain things more in-depth. Marcus idly stares out the window, his cheek against his knuckles and his eyes looking out into the night.
"So...all of that shit is--is real? Vampires, Dracula, and all of that blood and sun stuff, too?"
"Mm-hmm. Pay attention. Sheesh. Now, I'm gonna leave you with some new friends of mine. They're of the same Clan as we are, so you can sorta trust 'em. Sorta, heh. There's this big British guy named Clive; I'm gonna ask him to give you the lowdown on Kindred Society, alright?"
Marcus licks his lips, "Who--who tried to hurt me?"
Roxanne shrugs as she takes a sharp left turn, "I don't know. I really don't. But whoever that guy was, it's pretty damn clear that YOU were his target. Not me."
(Even from beyond the grave, Mr. Strickland's foul and pernicious influence can still be felt by many. However was his exsanguinated corpse ultimately disposed of by Sheriff Velma?)
A few of his hitters are out there, hither and yon, inflicting terror, pain, sorrow, and anguish.
After a brief stint in the traffic, the 2 Punks arrive at some old and overgrown building in a more neglected part of this Domain. It's fairly secluded and the surroundings are just as...depressing.
Marcus's eyebrows shoot up as he exits the vehicle.
Roxanne snorts, "Not your usual type of spot, huh?"
"Summin' like that, yeah. I'm a Lancaster. We...we don't drive long-haulers or work in no mines. We own the damn places...and the trucks, too."
Sheesh.
Roxanne quietly scoffs, "Yeah, well, not everyone is lucky enough to have the life that you...once had. Especially in this damn city."
Marcus's face scrunches in confusion as he shoots her a baleful look, "'Once had'? Bitch, I will continue to do what I've always been doing."
The sex worker retorts, "Hah! Good luck with that, bub. Try walking out in the sun, assuming you can even get your sluggish ass out of bed during the day."
The Brujah Fledgling murmurs, "Man, fuck this shit."
Roxanne snickers and shakes her head. She says nothing more lest she aggravate her Childe and drive him away. And that's the last thing she needs right now.
Marcus's face contorts. His eyes flicker and his fangs lengthen a little. His claws pop out and he lets out a pained yelp. Roxanne turns around and looks at her Childe, wriggling on the ground and holding his hand tightly.
He stumbles back and hisses, "What...is...going on! Why is my body betraying me!?"
Marcus slowly gets back up and tugs on his blazer. He sniffs loudly and lets out a hiss.
Roxanne gently places her hand on his shoulder, "Easy, tiger. Easy. Now, c'mon. And try to keep the witty remarks to a minimum. It's really not as...bad as it seems. Trust me."
He looks her in the eye, "And how the fuck am I supposed to trust you, huh? I've been sleeping with a vampire this whole goddamn time! You know how--how icky that makes me feel! Bitch, I would've preferred if you was a tranny or some shit! At least then I'd--I'd--"
Roxanne groans and rolls her eyes, "Oh, shut the fuck up, will you? Cry me a river."
Marcus stops in his tracks and points to himself, "I had plans, Roxanne! I had plans to be rich! Crazy rich! And YOU ruined those plans for me! I ain't ever gon' forgive you for--for putting this damn vampire thing all over me!"
The sex worker's lips tremble, she turns around and angrily shoves her Childe onto the ground. She shouts, "HOW DARE YOU! I SAVED YOUR FUCKING LIFE TONIGHT! FUCK ALL OF--OF YOUR SILLY LITTLE PLANS!"
Marcus looks up at his Sire and snarls, "Why--why the hell should I believe you now when--when all you ever did was lie to me every time we was together?"
Roxy grits her teeth and almost spells it out for him, "Because I don't owe you shit. I did what I did because it was the right thing to do. Y'know, the right thing. Something a rich guy like you ought to think about more often. I've given you everything, and yet all you can talk about is yourself and your delusional little plans!"
Marcus picks his ungrateful ass off the ground and furiously dusts himself off, "And all that shit you said to me about your sister...is--is that even real or just another lie in a long list of--"
Roxanne is not having any more of it. She marches up to him and pulls him by closer by his collar. Her fangs are fully extended, and her eyes are blazing with menacing fury.
She growls into his face, "Don't you dare go there. Why do you think I do what I do night after night, huh? I do it for Penny, OK?! You think that you're the only insufferably clingy rich person that I've had the misfortune of encountering in this line of work? Hell no. There's more where you came from. So, let's get 1 thing straight, Marcus..."
Marcus stares at her. His jaw is tightly clenched, and he has an empty look written all over him. Roxanne lets him go and steps away, turning her back towards him.
He frowns at his Sire, "Get what straight?"
Roxy looks over her shoulder, "After this, we're done. I...don't wanna have sex with you anymore. Truth be told, I gave it my all whenever I was with you. Keep your damn money. And for the record, you're absolutely lousy in bed."
She lifts her chin and marches towards the decrepit building, her footsteps echoing through the cold and empty night.
Marcus doesn't know what to say. His emotions are all over the place. He blinks and slowly follows after his Sire, seeing no other avenue or path.
With slumped shoulders, Marcus Lancaster the stockbroker enters a new world. A world of darkness. A new and terrifying world of secrets. A world that was intentionally kept hidden from him through varied means.
Clive is in this falling building. He wrings his hands together and shakes his head, "Cor blimey. I could hear you 2 bickering from all the bloody way over here. Who the 'ell is he, Rox?"
Roxanne and Marcus exchange a glance. The stockbroker scoffs, "Who the hell are you? And what kinda crazy-ass 'roids you on?"
Clive chuckles and wags a finger in the Fledgling's general direction, "Oh, I like this one already. Rox, love, do you care to bring me up to speed on what the 'ell is going on over 'ere?"
She shrugs, "We were in the middle of doing it when we got rudely interrupted. I bit the rude interruption and I Embraced...him." She lazily gestures to her Childe.
Clive's eyebrows shoot up in surprise, "You don't say. Blimey. And what's your story, then, eh? You look like a right posh wanker."
Marcus grunts, "The fuck's that supposed to mean? And--and who are YOU?!"
Clive extends his meaty hand and grins, "Name's Clive. The Blood of Troile flows through both of our veins."
Marcus hesitantly reaches out and shakes hands with the muscular British man, "Um. Right. Well, I'm Marcus. Lancaster. We're a big thing 'round these parts."
Clive withdraws his hand and straightforwardly says, "Don't care. You're a Brujah now. 'Rabble' is what some people tend to call us. And we're not too fond of all that fancy-schmancy posh shite. I can't speak for all Punks, but I'm not personally fond of any of it."
Marcus murmurs, "I can barely understand a damn thing this fool is saying..."
Clive snickers, "Oi...I heard that, you fucking muppet. And I don't care if you can't understand me accent. I'm not changing it for yours or anybody else's convenience. I was born this way, yeah? Got that?"
The stockbroker huffs and sits down on a nearby rickety chair, "Yeah." He rubs his face with his hands and takes in his surroundings (or the distinct lack thereof).
Roxanne sits on a nearby table and Clive leans against a grimy wall.
Clive folds his arms and stares at the Fledgling, "So, what do we do with this one, eh, Rox? My honest impression? He doesn't seem like our...type, if you get what I mean."
The sex worker shrugs, "I dunno. Maybe you--you're right. But I just couldn't leave his ass there to--to--to die."
Marcus scoffs, "Oh, and the golden rule of this crazy Clan is always do the right thing, huh? Pfft. That ain't how the world works."
Clive remarks, "We got ourselves a right posh lad here, innit? Oi! Come on! Check out the latest addition to the Learned Clan!"
From out of the shadows, nooks, corners, and the crannies, a handful of other Punks emerge. They all keenly stare at the most-recent addition to their sanguine ranks.
Many growls and hisses can be heard.
Marcus stands up, his eyes are wide, and his face contorts in visible shock, "What the--what the hell are--where did--?"
Clive lifts his chin, "The same Blood that's in your veins is in theirs, too. But don't read too much into that, OK? Go on, then, Mr. Posh. Say hello to your fellow...Rebels." The grin on his face widens.
The other Punks are of a diverse assortment of genders, ages, and epidermal pigmentations. Some curiously approach the Fledgling and keenly stare at him with wide, hungry eyes.
The others stand back and whisper amongst themselves.
Marcus's now-enhanced senses allow him to pick up on some of these hush-hush comments.
"Can't believe we have a new one..."
"He's a mulatto. Just like me! So cool!"
"The hooker made him? No way! It reminds me of my own Embrace!"
"I fuckin' hate stockbrokers. And chicken soup."
Marcus puts his hands on his ears and tightly grits his teeth, "Nnnn! Shut the fuck up! Shut the fuck up!! AAAAAH!" his attempts at shutting out the voices prove futile.
Clive lets out a chuckle, "Oi, Rox! Did you even tell him anything about his new existence?"
Roxanne shakes her head slowly, "I did. Don't look at me if he didn't pay any attention because he was too damn busy thinking about other silly shit."
She lets out a tired sigh, "Either way, I need somebody to show him the ropes. And who better than..."
The lady of the night does a broad, encompassing gesture towards the gathering, "...you?"
Marcus's mouth gapes open, his eyes are wide, and he's speechless. Many dead eyes bore into his very essence. He stands up and begins to make his way out the door.
Roxanne steps in his way, "No, Marcus. If you walk out that door, I cannot guarantee your survival. Look...just please sit back down. Let us explain things. Clive will be your tutor, OK?"
Marcus is still dumbfounded. Clive remains where he is, chin raised and grin still firmly intact.
"Look at the man, Rox. He's a tad ashy around the cheeks! Haha!"
Roxanne rolls her eyes a little, "Just...look at me. Marcus--"
The Childe averts his gaze, refusing to look into the eyes of the woman who Embraced him.
Roxy's dead heart aches a little and her shoulders slump, "I...I'm sorry for what I said, Marcus. But there are just SOOOOOO many other things on my mind, on my plate, right now. I can't deal with you and everything else at the same time. But this is not something that any of us could simply walk away from."
Roxanne gently turns Marcus's head so that he now faces her.
She looks into his eyes, "And if you were to...leave, now...it'd be...awful, catastrophic. You wouldn't last very long. At least give these people a chance. Hear them out. And if, for whatever reason, you don't like what they have to say, then you're more than free to go your own way. I won't stop you, and they sure as hell won't hold you back."
Marcus is quiet for a few moments, "...You're still going to get rid of me, aren't you? And can we even...do the whole sex thing now--now that we is vampires and shit?"
Roxanne briefly snickers, "How do you think I've been doing what I've been doing, hm?"
The stockbroker is visibly conflicted. His emotions are a stormy and tempestuous thing- true for many a Brujah! He eventually assents to his Sire's request and sits himself back down.
Clive claps his meaty hands together and nods firmly, "Ah, common sense has prevailed, eh? A good start. Oi, Rox? You staying, love?"
Roxanne shakes her head, "I have...things to take care of tonight, Clive. Please, take care of--of--of my Childe." Those last few words escape her mouth with a slightly bitter taste.
Marcus lowers his head and clasps his hands together, "Uh. OK, so...what now? Am I supposed to just sit my ass here and listen to a bunch of weirdos tell me stories and stuff?"
Clive nods in the affirmative, "Pretty much, yeah. You got a problem with so-called 'weirdos' telling you stories, hmm?"
Marcus fearfully shakes his head from side to side when Clive enters his personal bubble and looks down at him. The Brujah Fledgling is clearly out of his usual element, and Clive simply doesn't give a rat's chunky arse.
marcus does wonder if he'll ever be able to go back to his...old life, his old ways, his immense wealth (or what remains of it after assets get frozen or gets cut off by grandpa). But Unlife has other plans for him, very different plans from being some boring-ass broker of stocks.
call up 1-armed banu haqim justicar. much work to do. collins inform only certain ppl about surviving.
ld senior saw the writing on the wall. antonio was all talk and no balls. thats why i figured you were a better bet. and ive been betting for a long time. seek out conspirators to cut some sorta deal with them.
prince antonio too cocky brash even for luciano senior! thats why i wanna offer my support and that of my clan's to you...people and this crazy little plan that you've got going on here