Title: Vampire: The Masquerade- The Den Of Snakes
By: Paddy
Writing Start Date: May 2nd, 2025
Writing End Date: in progress
Fandoms: World Of Darkness (WOD), Vampire: The Masquerade (VTM), Hunter: The Reckoning (HTR), Wraith: The Oblivion (WTO)
Genre(s): Horror, Urban Fantasy, Drama, Thriller, Intrigue, Action-Adventure, Gothic Punk, Gothic Horror, Supernatural, Tragedy, Magical Realism, Modern Gothic, Political Horror, Social Horror
Summary: Al-Kushraf, UAE. Banu Haqim Neonates John and Svetlana find themselves in a strange city, drawn into a conspiracy spanning decades, an intricate and delicate plan in the making for years. Will they boldly stand in its way or will they be crushed and cast aside by its sheer brutality? The sands aren't the only thing shifting around here.
Content/Trigger Warnings: Intense Violence, Blood & Gore, Torture, Strong Language, Slurs, Bigotry/Hate, Racism, Queerphobia, Sexual Content/Scenes, Full & Partial Nudity, Rape/Non-Con, Alcohol/Substance Consumption, Smoking, Human & Animal Death, and so on.
Mirrors/Alternative Places To Read:
https://archiveofourown.org/works/73513926
https://www.quotev.com/story/17208539/Vampire-The-Masquerade-The-Den-Of-Snakes
Additional Notes:
Inspirations (Not ALL of them, just the main ones):
VTM: Night Road | Out For Blood | Parliament Of Knives | Sins Of The Sires | Coteries Of New York | Shadows Of New York | We Eat Blood And All Our Friends Are Dead | Reckoning Of New York
HTR: The Beast of Glenkildove
...And many more.
Chapter 1: Sand Dune
Al-Kushraf, UAE, 201X.
The air is warm and arid, the crescent moon is high in the sky. It is a night like any other, really. Stars litter the blackened heavens, and a single sand dune rolls endlessly across the horizon.
A woman in her late-20s stands and watches the shifting sands, her long blonde hair tousled by the wind. The expression on her face is one of intense focus.
Her sharp green eyes narrow as she stares into the distance, and then a smile spreads across her lips.
A man in his 30s, a foot shorter than her, suddenly appears beside her. His dark brown eyes watch her intently, and he smiles softly when she turns to him.
He has a pale-ish face with bits of stubble here and there, but his demeanor is overall friendly and composed.
He speaks, his voice, soft but confident, "Svetlana. How are you finding this city so far?"
Svetlana, John's Childe, replies, "Da (RU: Yes). Is good so far. What about you, John?"
Svetlana's Sire softly chuckles, "You know, Svetlana, this..."
He does a wide and sweeping gesture, encompassing the entirety of the desert they stand in, "This...all of this, it won't last. It won't be long, a few decades maybe, before all of this is nothing but a sand dune- a wasteland."
Svetlana solemnly nods, "Da. It certainly feels like that, does it not? But, what are we to do in this city, John? What is our purpose?"
John stares off into the distance, "You can feel the injustice here, can't you? It's like Dubai in every way, it even looks identical to Dubai, heh."
Svetlana looks away, staring at the stars, and her expression turns somber, "Yes. I can feel it."
She continues to stare out into the night sky, lost in thought, before finally turning back towards her Sire, "What are we going to do now, John?"
John inhales and exhales sharply, "What we Banu Haqim are meant to do. We will seek the unjust. And when we find them, we will Judge them accordingly. I hope that you will continue to follow me, my Childe."
Svetlana nods once, "Of course, always. To you...I owe everything."
John squeezes her shoulder, "You're no longer a Fledgling, Svetlana. You're a Neonate now."
He then pauses for a moment, a look of worry on his face, "There are plenty of Kindred here, but we don't know many of them as well as we should. We should keep our eyes and ears open, Svetlana."
Svetlana gives a slight, almost imperceptible nod.
John's voice is soft and gentle, "I think that's enough for tonight. It's time we head to...Elysium."
"Da. John?"
"Yes?"
Svetlana gulps, "Will we be forced to flee again?"
John hesitates before giving his answer, "I...don't know, Svetlana. All I know is that we can no longer return to Dubai after what happened."
A lone tear of blood escapes from the corner of Svetlana's eye, "Hmm, I know. The Gangrel...all gone."
John pensively lowers his head, "A shame. At least a few of them, Prince Angela's Childe included, managed to slip out. Still...that doesn't make it any easier. I know how much you admired the Prince."
Svetlana sniffles, her eyes growing wet and bloody. She wipes her nose with her palm, "Da. She was...great woman. Kind, gentle, and...beautiful."
John gives her a small smile, "Yes, Prince Angela was truly a good woman."
The duo begins walking towards a nearby structure, their footprints in the sand gradually fading away. The 2 of them walk across the sand dune, the city of Al-Kushraf just barely visible in the distance.
Chapter 2: The Grand Alhambra
Some time later...
A spectacularly tall hotel made of glass and steel towers over the bustling city streets. A huge elegant sign hangs from its front, reading, "The Grand Alhambra".
The floors are polished marble, the walls covered in gaudy tapestry, and large chandeliers hang from the ceiling.
Well-dressed (but over-exploited) hotel staff scurry about the lobby, busily checking guests in and out, out and in.
John and Svetlana stand in the lobby, and the former speaks, "They sure know how to pick a meeting place."
He looks around at all the dazzling lights, the crystal chandeliers, the luxurious furniture. He snickers, "Well, they sure do know how to choose these places, so...we should probably head up to the top."
Svetlana looks weary and lowers her voice, "They are not worried about Masquerade breach?"
John allays his Childe's worries, "I get where you're coming from, but it's all the way--"
He gulps and looks at how high this building is, "--up there. No one will notice."
Svetlana frowns, not fully convinced, "Hmph, still, is risky, no?"
John softly chuckles, "Indeed. I'll admit...it's a weird setup they have here, but we're not in any place or position to argue."
John and Svetlana proceed towards the elevators and head for the 140th floor.
That's pretty fucking high up!
There's no single elevator from the lobby to the 140th floor- rather, the lobby contains an elevator that goes up a few floors, another elevator that goes up a few more floors, and so on and so forth.
Once at their destination, the 2 Assamites step off the elevator, and they're greeted by the sight of an ornately-decorated hallway.
Svetlana sighs, "So much show-off. Pochemu (RU: Why)? Is too much, no?"
John chuckles and rolls a shoulder, "Oh, yep, it's a bit much."
John and Svetlana enter a fancy looking lounge area.
A goon in a sharp suit and sunglasses stops the duo with his palm, and John speaks up, "Hey. We're expected."
The goon stares at John and Svetlana. Then he lowers his hand and turns around, and he beckons the 2 Assamites to follow him.
He gruffly tells them, "You know the drill. All weapons must be surrendered, or you will be asked to leave. Follow me."
Svetlana complies and pulls 2 daggers from her coat and hands them over- 1 dagger is made of obsidian whilst the other is made of ceramic.
John reluctantly pulls a katana blade from his own long coat and hands it over.
The man at the reception counter asks, "Are those all your weapons?"
John replies, "Yes."
Svetlana replies, "Da. Da."
The man behind the counter takes the weapons and hangs them on hooks, then he turns back to the duo, "Go right ahead."
The hooks are full of various weapons, some gnarlier than others- maces, modified pistols with gold-plated handles, nunchucks, a few axes, etc.
The goon opens a door with a keycard, and the 2 Assamites pass through, entering the lounge proper.
Once inside, the duo find themselves in a massive circular room.
Low orange lighting bathes the room, and several tables are dotted around. Fancy chairs covered with silky white fabric are scattered about the room.
There's a bar at the far end of the room, and several bottles of exotic liquors are stacked up on a shelf.
(Who's drinking it is anyone's guess).
The floors are shiny and Svetlana can see her pale reflection when she looks down.
The lounge is filled with Kindred and their Ghouls.
Most are dressed in fancy suits, although a few are clad in hooded cloaks. Others wear casual clothing.
All are engaged in spirited conversation, and the air is heavy with tension.
A dark man beckons for John and Svetlana to join him at his table.
The duo do so, and the man smiles, "As-salamu alaykum (AR: Peace be upon you)."
John presses his lips into a thin smile, "Hmm, greetings, Vizier Mohammed."
Vizier Mohammed, the Banu Haqim Primogen, looks to be in his 40s. He sports a neatly-trimmed beard. He's wearing a dark blue thawb and a red-and-white ghutrah.
Vizier Mohammed motions towards 2 seats, "Please, please, take a seat."
Svetlana smiles and curtly bows her head, "Is good to see you again. How are you keeping?"
Vizier Mohammed chuckles, "I fare well, Neonate."
He fixes his gaze on her and leans forward, "So, tell me, Svetlana, have you given thought to what we spoke about last time?"
Svetlana nods her head slowly and simply says, "Da."
Vizier Mohammed strokes his chin, "Ah, very well." His tone then becomes more serious, "And what are your thoughts on it?"
Svetlana's voice is quiet but firm, "I--"
John senses her discomfort and speaks up, "Vizier Mohammed, Svetlana hasn't had the easiest of times in the past few weeks. Give her time."
Vizier Mohammed smiles warmly, "Yes, yes, of course."
He clasps his hands together and asks, "How are you finding this city so far?"
John chuckles and matter-of-factly states, "We haven't been in Al-Kushraf all that long, Vizier, but it's like Dubai in every way."
Svetlana silently nods.
Vizier Mohammed grins, "Indeed, indeed. But even THIS city is nothing like the great Alamut!"
He heartily chortles and is about to say more, but he's interrupted by the sound of the doors swinging open.
A tall, stern-looking, broad-shouldered man enters the lounge, and his piercing blue eyes rove around the room, briefly falling upon John and Svetlana, before settling on the Assamite Primogen.
Vizier Mohammed springs up and takes both of this tall man's hands in his, "As-salamu alaykum (AR: Peace be upon you), Primogen Absalom."
The tall man, Absalom, curtly nods, "Wa alaykumu s-salam (AR: And upon you be peace), Vizier."
The Malkavian Primogen's voice is deep and authoritative. His blue eyes are cold and unreadable. He has long, jet-black hair that flows down to his back and a goatee.
He's wearing an elegant dark purple thawb and brown sandals.
Once again, he fixes his piercing gaze on the 2 Banu Haqim Neonates and gives them a simple nod.
Svetlana twitches in her seat, feeling the intensity of the Malkavian Elder's gaze. John winces slightly, but manages to keep himself composed.
Absalom and Vizier Mohammed exchange pleasantries and the Malkavian Primogen sits down with his entourage.
Vizier Mohammed returns his attention to John and Svetlana, who seem a bit unnerved, "Absalom can be very...intimidating, hmm?"
John slowly nods, "We know."
Svetlana concurs with a nod of her own.
Vizier Mohammed clears his throat, "Now, where was I?"
John raises an eyebrow and wearily sighs, "Alamut..."
Vizier Mohammed grins, "Oh yes!"
Once this guy starts about Alamut, it is impossible to get him to stop. He once spent 5 hours talking Svetlana's head off about it.
After a few seconds of listening to Mohammed's droning on and on about Alamut, Svetlana and John can't take anymore, and they excuse themselves.
The duo sit somewhere in the back, and John lets out a huge sigh, "Oh, shit...I thought he'd never stop."
Svetlana smiles slightly and laughs, "Haha, da. I was wondering same thing. He really likes this Alamut, huh?"
John chuckles, "Yes. A bit too much, if you ask me. It's his...obsession, for lack of a better term."
"Hmph."
This contemplative silence is interrupted by a helicopter landing on the nearby helipad, and a man steps out.
He's wearing this really bulky fox-collared mink coat, and his black hair is neatly pomaded and styled into an angular, business-like look.
He's also wearing a pair of stylish orange aviator shades, which he slides onto the bridge of his nose as he enters the lounge.
The brown-eyed Ventrue Primogen, Mark, stretches out his hands to either side and speaks with a flat and generic American accent, "Hey, hey, hey!"
He grins, holds his chin up high, and confidently strides towards the bar, where he starts chatting with the bartender on duty.
With his annoying grin, he points at a few bottles of booze and says, "Chardonnay, huh? Expensive stuff, man! Seth must REALLY be rolling in the dough if he's shelling out for Chardonnay..."
Then the Blue Blood snorts with laughter, "Hah, 'Shelling out for Chardonnay'...get it?"
When no one seems to "get it", he awkwardly looks around the room and sighs, "Ah, tough crowd." Then he slumps in his barstool and rests his chin on his hands.
John mutters to himself, "Ventrue...Arrogant." His nose twitches, and he inhales deeply. He then lets out a soft sigh. Svetlana is too preoccupied to notice this.
The next to arrive through those doors is a slender, gaunt-looking man with thinning hair pulled into a small bun. He looks to be in his early-30s.
His plain orange shirt is tucked into his slim-fitting jeans. His face is slightly pockmarked, and there is a sharpness to his jaw that betrays the Hunger in him.
Sebastian, the Toreador Primogen, fiddles with the thin black sticks on his head, adjusting them this way and that.
Finally satisfied with the angle of the sticks, he approaches John and Svetlana with an eager, slightly-too-wide smile, "Svetlana, John!"
John merely shakes the Toreador's cold hand, "Sebastian."
Svetlana bows her head and smiles, "Is good to see you, Sebastian. How are you?"
Sebastian eyes the Assamite from head to toe, as if examining something, and responds with a warm smile, "Ah, yes. It's nice to see you, too!"
Then he adds in an aside, "Very nice." The smile turns to a grin, and he walks away.
Svetlana looks to her Sire, slightly confused by what she just witnessed, "Wha--"
John turns around and watches the Aesthete saunter over to someone else, "Hmmm...keep an eye on that one, Svetlana."
"Why?"
John doesn't respond. He just looks at his Childe with a neutral expression.
Svetlana looks back to her Sire and gives him a firm nod. "Da." Her eyes are resolute, her mouth in a straight line.
After all this time, she still clings to her Sire and everything that he has done his best to teach her.
A few moments later, the doors (once again) swing open.
A man in a mosaic-patterned porcelain mask and dull brown suit strolls in and inconspicuously seats himself somewhere near the back.
Sebastian notices the Nosferatu Primogen and hollers out, "Tommy! C'mon, the mask? Again? We all know how...handsome you look beneath that thing." He smirks at his own wit and turns away, giggling to himself.
John shakes his head and sighs. Svetlana rolls her eyes.
Tommy lets out a grated sigh, "Fuckin' walloper." His Scottish accent is thick but gravelly. His voice sounds as if his vocal chords are damaged, yet somehow his speech remains intelligible enough.
The Nossie's gray eyes scan the entire room, and they eventually fall upon John and Svetlana, the latter of whom shyly looks away.
John raises his eyebrow, and his eyes dart towards his Childe, "Svetlana, something wrong?"
Svetlana winces a bit, "I have not seen him without mask since we arrived in city, John."
John tells her, "It's nothing to be overly concerned about. The Nosferatu wear their Clan's Bane, their Repulsiveness, on the outside. It doesn't necessarily reflect who they are on the inside."
"Hmm, I heard that many are sympathetic. Is that true?" she turns her head and looks towards him, awaiting an answer.
"Hmm. It's complicated, Svetlana. Heh, we...really should get to know some of the others here."
"Da. We should. Still, I cannot believe it has only been few weeks since--since--"
Svetlana's voice cracks slightly as she utters these next few words, "--since Prince Angela...and the Gangrel..."
"Svetlana," John says sharply, his tone low, "Let's...not go down this path again. Nobody saw it coming. By the time Absalom had his vision, it was too late for any of us to intervene."
He's silent for a moment, and then he speaks again, his voice quiet, "We had to run. There's no point in dwelling on it now."
He's interrupted when another Kindred pushes the doors open.
This one is...interesting. He holds a cane with the head of a snake at the top. His attire consists of a striped button-down shirt, black slacks, and brown shoes.
His hair is brown and somewhat spiky, his amber eyes darting all over the place as he steps inside. His skin is paler than usual and there is a tattoo of a snake that's slightly covered by his shirt collar.
That would be none other than Seth- the local High Priest of the Ministry.
The Setite twirls his cane and greets everyone gathered. His American accent is smooth and he drags on his s's, kind of like a snake would hiss, "Greetings."
Tommy turns his head in the High Priest's direction, "Seth, hmph."
The Nosferatu Primogen gets up from his seat and slowly walks over toward the High Priest.
Seth strokes the emeralds lodged into the eyes of his snake cane and replies in a cool and even tone, "Tommy...the pleasure's all yours, I'm sure."
Tommy just stands there for a while, glaring at Seth from behind that mask, "Aye. Still dancing on a knife's edge, eh?"
Seth holds out both arms and shrugs, "What can I say? I do like taking a few risks every now and then." He winks, a sly grin on his face.
Tommy scoffs, "By all means, Typhonist. Just make sure those wee 'risks' of yours don't end up with us being turned tae ash like all those unlucky bastards in Dubai!"
He leans forward and points an accusing finger at Seth, "This isn't just a wee dance on the edge o' a knife! This is our existence you're focking gamblin' with!"
Seth maintains his calm, "Tommy, come now. There's no reason to throw around such...invectives. Elysium is supposed to be a place of peace, is it not? So why not keep that peace? There are, after all, much...bigger and more important things to worry about."
Seth looks towards Vizier Mohammed, and he gives the Banu Haqim Primogen a silent, knowing look.
Vizier Mohammed waves him over.
As he walks towards Vizier Mohammed, Seth gives a few passing glances towards the others gathered here tonight, and he can't help but smile at their confused expressions.
The whole setup in this city is...unusual and the Kindred gathered here tonight know this well.
There is no Prince or Sheriff. Yet, there is a Primogen Council and an Elysium.
Seth is the closest this city has to an authority figure, but the other Kindred still hold some power.
A lot of power, in fact.
Mr. Seth is also a sort of an éminence grise (FR: gray eminence) in the affairs of Al-Kushraf. He's been around for a while and knows all the major players and the lay of the land.
Seth greets the Banu Haqim Vizier with a light bow of the head, "Vizier Mohammed. I saw your...protégé lurking in the lobby. Why won't she join us?"
The Vizier answers, "Ms. Kawasaki is paranoid. She still believes that her former associates are looking for her."
Seth nods slowly, "Yes. I see. Well she'll just have to be brought around in her own time."
"Yes, yes, indeed."
Seth proceeds to say hello to the Malkavian Primogen, "Absalom. All settled in?"
Absalom has his fingers steepled together, and his gaze is directed toward the floor, "Yes."
"Oh?"
Absalom looks up, his icy blue eyes burrowing through the Setite, "We stand ready to assist you in any way we can."
Seth cracks a small smile, "That's good to hear, Absalom. How is your friend faring? What was his name again??"
Absalom replies, "Mr. Bean. He is feeding in the basement of this grand hotel. He shall be arriving soon."
Seth clasps his hands and nods, "Excellent. Excellent. Just make sure he knows to lick any wounds shut. Or dispose of the corpse after, heh."
"Of course."
Seth moves over to greet Mark, "Well, Mark, it seems like you always know how to make an entrance. Wasn't it a Bugatti last time?"
Mark lazily waves his hand in dismissal, "What? I like to make a flashy entrance! It's more fun that way! What's Unlife without a little pizzazz, eh, Seth? I'm sure you're quite the expert yourself."
Seth smirks, "I have my moments."
He pats the Ventrue Primogen on the back and walks to the middle of the room. He raises a glass and taps upon it with a nearby steak knife, "Ladies and gentlemen. Kindred of the Court, if I may have your attention please."
The lounge immediately falls silent. All eyes fall upon Seth.
The Setite begins, "As you are all no doubt aware, it has been a difficult few weeks. First, there was the raid on Dubai; it seems that the Second Inquisition has made significant advances in their campaign against us."
Murmurs and whispers arise all over the room. A few voices are raised in agreement.
Seth continues, "And that's just 1 of many tragedies we've all been forced to bear witness to. But it isn't all bad, oh no."
Like some kind of preacher, he continues, "Al-Kushraf stands on the verge of becoming the city that I believe it was always meant to be..."
He pauses for dramatic effect before saying, "The city of our dreams!"
A few voices cry out in triumph and some clap their hands together.
Seth claps along with them, "Indeed. Indeed. I can see how eager, how...hungry you all are for what comes next."
He pauses once again, and a few hands rise into the air, eager to speak.
Seth immediately addresses the speaker, "Yes, Mr. Lance?"
Mr. Lance clears his throat and speaks, "What about the Caitiff problem in our city, Seth? Their numbers grow with every passing night!"
The Setite High Priest warmly smiles at his fellow Setite, "Well, true...we can't just ignore it, Mr. Lance, but...we also can't do much about them either, can we?"
Mr. Lance seems somewhat satisfied with that answer, so he sits down and whispers something to the woman seated next to him.
She writes something on a tablet and turns to Lance.
Seth twirls his cane and paces around, "Now, where was I?"
Absalom says, "I believe you were telling us how this city is destined to become something great."
Seth snaps his fingers, "Ah, yes, indeed. Thank you, Primogen Absalom."
The Malkavian Elder curtly nods.
Seth clears his throat, "Yes! This city has the potential to be something more, something--"
His mini sermon is interrupted the doors flinging open.
In walks a well-dressed and clean-shaven man in his mid-20s. He wears a dark blue suit, a white shirt, and a red bowtie.
His brown hair is gently tousled. There is a sheen to his fair skin, as if he just got back from the spa or something.
With a cheeky smile on his face, he strides in and takes the closest seat he can find.
Seth stifles a sigh, "Paul...you're late."
Paul, the Toreador Harpy, calmly replies, "I prefer the term 'fashionably late'." He smirks.
Seth snickers and regards the Toreador Harpy for a few moments.
Paul flips his hair and winks, "Oh, come now, Seth. You know how us...Toreadors are."
"Hmm."
Seth brushes some imaginary lint off his sleeves and looks around the room, "Well, since we are all here, I believe it is time for me to address another issue that you've brought up with me."
Murmurs and whispers rise around the room again.
Paul scoffs, "Come now, Seth. You can't possibly expect the Banu Haqim to have fled to Abu Dhabi. The Tremere Prince would NEVER have allowed them in."
The High Priest of the Ministry shrugs, "Hmm, maybe. But, certain...individuals, who shall remain unnamed, have come to me with concerns about our new arrivals."
With that, he turns his almost serpentine eyes towards John and Svetlana.
John folds his arms and leans back, "What kind of concerns?"
Somebody from the back springs up and points an accusing finger, "That the Blade of Haqim are nothing but extremists and terrorists!"
John turns his head to get a better look at who's hurling such nonsense towards the Banu Haqim faction he belongs to. He is greeted with the sight of an old and bespectacled man.
John scoffs, "We're not terrorists. And we most certainly are not extremists."
The old guy retorts, "I know enough about the Blade's methods and their...views on a certain conflict in this part of the world."
John maintains his cool, "This is not the time or the place..."
The old Setite scoffs, "Spare me your nonsense, Bladeite!"
John chuckles, "Bladeite? Heh, that's...new."
Svetlana tugs at her Sire's sleeves, "What is going on?"
John looks at her, "It's OK, don't worry."
The old Serpent sneers, "So, what's it going to be, huh? Are you going to rouse the rabble in this city to your pointless and vengeful cause? Or--"
Seth holds up his hands, in an effort to calm everyone down, "Gentlemen. Please."
He clears his throat and continues, "I believe it is time we address this matter. My friends, it is a sad truth of our kind that there are those among us who seem to revel in conflict and strife."
Seth looks at the 2 Assamites and cracks a subtle smile, "But, I believe that the members of the Blade of Haqim are capable of behaving themselves while they are in Al-Kushraf, yes?"
John does a slight nod, as does his Childe.
The old guy curses and storms out.
The other Kindred murmur and mumble amongst themselves.
The Setite High Priest exhales sharply, "I'll speak with him later. Don't worry. Is there anything else that's on your minds? Please, feel free to speak whatever's on your mind, this is Elysium after all."
A woman's voice rises, "Yeah! WHY are we even hosting the Blade of Haqim? They're not good enough for the Tremere Prince of Abu Dhabi, but WE'RE good enough for them? It's ridiculous!"
John's eyes narrow and his lips curl.
He answers her question in a soft but icy tone, "We have a common goal."
The Setite scoffs at that, "Rubbish! All the Blade is concerned about is the Isr--"
Seth stops her, "Uh, uh, uh. We've already established that mortal politics isn't a topic of conversation in Elysium."
He turns towards John, "I apologize for her interrupting, Mr. John, but...could you elaborate on what this common goal of ours is?"
John plainly replies, "Justice."
Scoffs and derisive murmurs erupt around the room. Hands are dismissively waved.
John looks around, gauging everyone's reactions. So far, it doesn't seem too positive.
The majority of Kindred in Al-Kushraf are Setites and the recent arrivals have not been welcome with open arms, only begrudgingly tolerated because they had nowhere else to go after being dusted out of Dubai.
Mark speaks up, "Well, I don't care too much about it either way, so..."
Absalom remains silent, his watchful eyes scanning and scrutinizing every single one of the other Kindred in the room.
Sebastian is too busy preening himself to care about what others think.
Seth is preoccupied with stroking the emeralds on his snake cane.
Tommy seems lost in thought and just...listening.
Svetlana gazes around the room, her expression inscrutable.
Vizier Mohammed clasps his hands together and says absolutely nothing at all. Interesting.
Paul walks to the middle of the room and snaps his fingers a few times to get everyone's attention, "People, people! PEOPLE!"
His last utterance brings the entire room to a pin-drop silence.
The Toreador Harpy turns to John, "How many of you are there, how do you choose your members, and what is your philosophy?"
Svetlana looks unsure, "John, are you sure?"
John slowly nods, "Seeing how indifferent you all are to what the Blade of Haqim stands for, I'd only be wasting my 'breath'."
He adds, "Besides, you already know these things. Why waste my time and yours?"
Vizier Mohammed finally found his tongue, "This is why it is unwise to bring up such delicate and nuanced subjects here in Elysium. This city is already divided enough. Let us not add fuel to the fire."
John claps back, "Was there nuance in the Nazis' extermination of the Jews?"
The Banu Haqim Primogen lowers his head and doesn't respond.
Paul asks for further elaboration, "So, as I understand, the Blade of Haqim is committed to...justice. You seem to draw parallels between what the Nazis did to the Jews and what the State of Israel is currently doing to the Palestinian people, correct?"
He furrows his brow and seems to be mulling over what he's heard, "And, if you don't mind my asking, what is it that you do to any...offenders, for lack of any better terms."
The 2 Assamites lock eyes with each other.
Svetlana softly mutters something to her Sire.
John flatly says, "We Judge them."
Seth asks, "You mean you kill them?"
Svetlana chimes in, "It is the Blade that Judges them."
Seth further inquires, "And who are 'they' exactly, hmm? What is the current state of your organization?"
Svetlana says, "We are many."
"Many?"
Svetlana nods, "Da. Many."
John takes a deep breath and then lets it out slowly, "I have the impression that we were both invited here tonight just so we could be scrutinized, pointlessly, I might add."
A few more Setites walk out of the lounge in anger and disgust.
Seth presses, "You still haven't answered my question, who are the ones you quote-unquote 'Judge'?"
John softly chuckles, "It's clear that you've already made up your minds about the Blade of Haqim. Why waste time on what we do or don't do?"
Seth chuckles, "Come now, John. Surely you must know why. Call it...curiosity, if you please."
Svetlana sheepishly raises her hand, "If I may?"
Seth smirks, "Please, Svetlana. This isn't school. Speak your mind, speak it freely."
Svetlana asks, "What is the meaning of this? Why did you invite us here tonight? It has only been few weeks since our arrival. We have not caused any trouble to our gracious hosts, yet..."
Paul, in an almost theatrical fashion, leans forward with an earnest expression on his face, "I am curious as well. If you do not mind my asking, Mr. Seth."
Seth's grin widens, "I invited you here tonight because I wanted to make sure that you people won't make any trouble. You see, after the raid on Dubai, everyone is on edge and worried. We have enough problems to deal with without adding to them."
John glares at Seth and calmly says, "You're referring to the Second Inquisition?"
The Setite High Priest responds, "Yes, the SI. Actually, I'd like to speak with you and your Childe after this...discussion."
John and Svetlana exchange glances. The latter of which is filled with uneasiness.
Paul takes that opportunity to add his 2 cents, "But I must say, Seth, it's clear to me that your concerns are based on a certain level of paranoia."
Seth raises an eyebrow, "Paranoia? The whole of Clan Gangrel was destroyed, save for a handful. The rest of the surviving Clans fled either to Abu Dhabi or found refuge here with us."
Absalom sharply replies, "Many things...many questions about the attack continue to torment my mind."
Seth twitches, "Such as?"
Absalom vaguely answers, "It is of no concern to you, Viper. These visions are mine and mine alone to contend with and resolve."
Seth scratches his chin and continues to stroke the emeralds on his snake cane, "You seem...certain of that?"
Absalom doesn't reply.
Svetlana has a stern expression on her face, "You are asking about what is to happen next, but there should be some investigation, no? Those who destroyed Prince Angela must be punished!"
Another Setite walks out of the room upon hearing this.
Wow.
Paul changes the subject, "There is another issue that we need to address."
Seth sighs and knowingly replies, "Indeed. Yes. Let's talk about it, shall we?"
The Toreador Harpy gestures around, "The Caitiff known only as N0S4A2. So far, no Clan has stepped forward to claim them as one of their own. We don't even know their gender!"
He adds, "They always conceal their identity with a dark biker's helmet and drive around in that godawful IROC-Z of theirs."
Paul's face is visibly frustrated and annoyed, "How is it even possible for a Caitiff to remain undiscovered and hidden for this long? It doesn't make any sense!"
He stammers, "I--I mean, all we know is that they are a Caitiff and that's thanks to Tommy and his information networks."
The Malkavian Primogen simply sits there, silently watching everyone, listening to everything that goes on around him, storing away every piece of information for later use.
Tommy clears his throat, the sound of which grates against the ears of everyone gathered in this room. "Aye, I 'ave been quite useful to yous all. Finding out that this wee race driver was a Freestyler nearly got one of me mates charred."
(Freestyler is 1 of the many monikers for the Caitiff).
Mark thinks out loud, "And are this N0S4A2's underground racing activities a threat to the Masquerade?"
Sebastian pipes up, "Yeah, I'm kinda wondering the same thing, too. Is fuckin' Speed Racer gonna get us destroyed or something?"
Seth thoughtfully nods, "A valid concern. If N0S4A2 does turn out to be a threat to our Unlives, then we might have to call a Blood Hunt."
John scoffs, "I know Caitiff, they won't take it lying down."
Seth huffs, "They will have no other choice, John. The Ministry welcomed them to this city long before you and your buddies showed up."
Svetlana points out, "But without Prince or Sheriff, how can you call Blood Hunt?"
Seth softly laughs, "Here in Al-Kushraf, our interpretations of the Camarilla's Traditions are very...flexible." There's a sinister undertone lacing his words.
Another Viper from behind protests, "A mistake! Nothing but a mistake! Now the Clanless threaten to overrun us!"
Paul interjects, "Maybe, maybe not. If Caitiff are all we have to contend with, then the city is safe."
He grins and shakily chuckles, "Right, Seth? Heh, they wouldn't stand a chance against the freaking Ministry, anyway! You guys are STILL the majority around here, haha!"
Seth slowly nods, "Indeed. The Caitiff know their place and will continue to be in their place."
He turns to face some of his fellow Ministers, who sit there tense but silent, "Yes?" Seth asks.
They nod back in the affirmative.
Seth looks around the dimly-lit room and smiles, "Well, if there are any other concerns, now would be a better time than later to discuss them? And please, no politics."
John mutters to himself, "It seems that some voices here matter more than others."
Seth narrows his eyes, "Something the matter, John?"
"No, no, nothing. Just reminding myself of something I have to take care of."
Seth, taking on a faux-gracious tone, asks, "Anything we could help with?"
"No. I'll manage."
Seth reminds the Assamite, "I still wanna talk to you and your Childe after we're done here."
"Hm, sure."
Seth reassures the 2 tense Assamites, "The others fled to Abu Dhabi, but you just might've made the best damn choice by coming here to Al-Kushraf city. Who knows, maybe this might be the beginning of something great."
Seth strokes his chin, "It's your decision whether or not you will continue to stay here in Al-Kushraf, but I wouldn't mind having a few of you around, what do you say, Vizier?"
The Vizier indifferently replies, "It is all in the hands of Providence, Mr. Seth. But, I personally do not agree with many of the Blade's teachings, especially--"
Seth raises his hand to silence the Vizier, "Ah, ah, ah! What did I say, hmm? No politics. I'd like to think that Elysium is a place of...higher and more sophisticated thought."
Seth queries, "Right. So, John, do you think you'll continue to stay with us?"
Seth's gaze falls upon the Assamite. Svetlana glances at her Sire.
John scratches his chin, "We don't really have anywhere else to go, so yeah, I guess Al-Kushraf is the place where we belong."
"Interesting," Seth nods his head and regards John's nervous Childe for a few moments.
He points to her with his cane, "And what about you, Ms. Svetlana? How are you finding our city?"
Svetlana speaks her mind, "Is like Dubai in every way."
Seth's eyebrows raise in surprise, "Dubai, eh? Well, that's quite an assessment, heh."
He smirks, "If I didn't know any better, I'd say you had an affinity for fashion, haha."
Sebastian's ears suddenly perk up and he nearly springs up from his seat at the mention of the word "fashion".
He gawks at Svetlana and mumbles something, but no one is quite sure what he says.
Seth's lips curl upward and he turns his gaze towards Absalom, "Do you think you'll stick around as well?"
"Yes. Your hospitality is unmatched, Typhonist."
The Malkavian Primogen adds, "After the chaos in Dubai, we Malkavians are in search of some...respite."
Seth reassuringly says, "You will find plenty here, and much more."
Seth makes a show of twirling his cane and asks, "Is there anything else, or shall we move on to the next...part?"
Sebastian raises his hand and slightly groans, "You don't have someone I can bite into? Hell, I'll even settle for the bagged and watered-down stuff at this point. Ugh."
Absalom stares at Sebastian, and the Toreador shifts uncomfortably under his gaze.
Absalom pointedly asks, "You did not hunt before attending Elysium?"
Sebastian blinks a few times, "What? I mean--"
The Malkavian Elder shakes his head, "It is unwise to deprive the Beast of what it needs, Aesthete."
The Toreador Primogen mutters, "I thought I'd be able to control it--"
Absalom cuts him off, "And yet I can feel your Beast rousing within you. Go. Sate it now rather than later."
Tommy watches this exchange and snickers to himself.
Seth gestures to a gaggle of mortals in the far corner of the lounge, "Go and feed, Seb."
Sebastian sheepishly smiles, "Yes, yes, all right. Thank you. T--Thanks!"
He gets up and scuttles off, licking his lips and readying his fangs.
Seth addresses the others, "Well, I guess that's all for tonight. I called this meeting to address your concerns with the Blade of Haqim and the Caitiff question. But, the only concern that matters now is that we must be vigilant with the threat of the SI, lest they ruin our city, too."
Absalom nods in agreement.
Tommy nods along.
Mark gives a thumbs-up.
Paul folds his legs and sits down with a bored look on his face.
Mohammed brushes some bits of lint off his clothes and folds his arms.
Seth interprets this as agreement and hits his cane against the ground, "Very well. This concludes our meeting. May Typhon bless us all, hmm?"
The other Setites chant in unison, "All praise be to Typhon!"
Seth lowers his head, "Blessed be Typhon."
With that, the meeting officially ends.
Seth takes his seat next to Paul and starts talking about this and that.
Svetlana and John look at each other, almost unsure of who to socialize with now that the whole ordeal is over.
There are a few other Assamites around, but no one feels the need to strike up a conversation with them.
Tommy comes over to the Svetlana and her Sire, "Aye, welcome to our wee city. Don't fuck things up."
He clasps each one of their hands and stares at the 2 Banu Haqim, his sickly eyes shining.
Then, he turns around and walks out the doors without bothering to speak with anyone else.
One gets the impression that the Nossies and the Setites don't get along that well.
John points to Absalom and softly laughs, "Y'know, Svetlana, he kinda reminds me of...someone."
Svetlana whispers, "Who?"
John can barely hold back his soft chuckle, "My mother had this picture of Jesus on the wall."
His Childe softly nods.
John continues, "She was...really religious. Anyway, I can't help but think that the Malkavian Elder kinda reminds me of that picture on my mother's patchy wall."
Absalom slowly turns his head to the direction of the duo, almost like he had heard the words that just left John's mouth. He locks eyes with Svetlana and her Sire.
"Jesus Christ," John mutters under his breath.
Svetlana turns her head away and bites her tongue.
She lowers her voice, "He could not have heard us from all the way there, no?"
A small smile creeps on to Absalom's face. He redirects his piercing gaze elsewhere.
If vampires could breathe a sigh of relief, they'd do it just about now. That Elder Malkavian has a way of making people shake in their boots just by looking at them!
The Ventrue Primogen is milling about the bar area, talking about his helicopter that he rented just for tonight's gathering.
Once Seth has done talking with Paul, he comes over to Svetlana and John.
He grabs the nearby seat and sits down, "Hello there. May I talk with you 2 for a bit?"
Svetlana looks at her Sire, who responds with a subtle nod.
John says, "Of course. Here to chew us out or denigrate our cause further?"
Seth smiles, "No. I didn't invite you here for that. I invited you here to ask you a favor."
John raises an eyebrow, "You already have a lot of people working under your direction. What would you possibly need from us?"
Seth says, "This, I strongly believe, is the kind of work that you Assamites are cut out for."
"Oh?" John incredulously asks.
Seth continues, "It is something that concerns our Unlives."
Svetlana narrows her eyes, "Really?"
Seth explains, "Are you aware of recent news regarding Palm Springs Mall?"
Svetlana asks, "Nyet (RU: No). What news?"
Seth tells the 2, "They plan on installing heartbeat sensors at all of the mall's entrances. I needn't tell you how...disastrous this would be for our kind, hmm?"
He eyes them with those snake eyes of his, gauging what their reaction would be.
John gives Svetlana a silent look, "This is what we came here for, wasn't it?"
She shrugs, "Da."
Seth cocks his head, "So, you'll put an end to this plan?"
John asks the obvious, "Where do we even start? You can't send the 2 of us in without any more info."
Seth nods, "Of course, of course. The mall is...horribly lax when it comes to securing their computers and whatnot. As I understand, a lot of sensitive information is stored on simple spreadsheets, heh."
Svetlana asks, "Really?"
"Oh yes, very much so."
Seth gives a few details regarding how the mall operates and how the security system works (or doesn't work, rather).
He concludes by saying, "I needn't repeat how disastrous this is for our kind. Put an end to this project. Wipe their data and destroy any backups you come across, if any exist."
John looks at Svetlana for a moment, "Svetlana, thoughts?"
She replies, "Is good cause. I visit that mall few times to buy things, they have many good discounts. Heartbeat sensors would be most unwelcome. It already enough trouble to pass through metal detectors."
The Setite High Priest softly chuckles, "Yes. Indeed. Well, then you must know the details and the layout of the mall better than I do, right?"
Svetlana nervously nods, "Da, I suppose."
John adds, "If you have any floor plans, print 'em out for us?"
Seth stifles a chuckle, "What? No phone, John?"
John gets a bit irritated, "We had to run for our Unlives when Dubai was attacked. We didn't have the time to think about grabbing anything on the way out..."
Svetlana pensively lowers her head, "Hmm, da. It was traumatizing."
Seth shrugs, "Well, you still have your weapons with you, right? I saw them on the way in."
The Setite High Priest inquires, "So, who uses the katana?"
John lazily raises his hand, "I do."
Seth turns to Svetlana and looks into her green eyes, "And that would make you the owner of those 2 fine daggers. Tell me, why ceramic and obsidian? Is it a Blade of Haqim thing?"
Svetlana shakes her head, "Nyet. It is for bypassing metal detectors."
Seth chuckles, "Ah, sneaky. I like that."
John shakes his head, "Hmm, I'm sure you do. Is there anything else, Seth?"
Seth shakes his head, "No. I just need someone I can trust to deal with this...quietly and without raising any eyebrows. That's all."
The 2 Assamites give a few quick glances at each other before turning to face the High Priest once again.
Svetlana says, "You trust us when you do not even know us very well?"
Seth slyly smiles, "You seem trustworthy enough. In the few weeks that you've been here, you haven't stirred the pot with your antics. That's always a plus, heh."
John slowly nods, "Yeah, we've been good guests. The question remains: are you Sand-Snakes good hosts?"
Seth smoothly responds, "I think you will find us to be the best at hospitality, possibly even better than the Tzimisce. I have high expectations, John, and I have hopes that you will meet them."
Seth leans closer, "You have my utmost confidence, and you can rely on my help whenever you need it. All you have to do is...ask, and you shall receive."
John nods, "Yeah, sure." He's not fully buying the smooth-talking, but he goes along with it.
For now.
Svetlana curtly bows her head, "As Banu Haqim, we are committed to justice. We are also committed to living in peace with our neighbors, be they Kindred or mortal. Or Ghoul."
Seth grins, "Well, that's good to hear, Svetlana. And I hope you'll come to enjoy your time in Al-Kushraf city."
"Spasibo (RU: Thank you)."
The Setite High Priest stretches out his arms and takes a few moments to look around the room.
Just then, a tall and lanky Ugandan man walks over to Seth. He has thick lips, expressive eyebrows, and very short hair. He's wearing a casual jacket and a pair of cargo pants.
He bends down and whispers something into Seth's ear.
Seth pats his Ghoul, Edwin, on the shoulder and dismisses him, "I'm coming. Gimme a few minutes. Just...wait over there."
Edwin nods and obeys.
Seth turns to the 2 Assamites, "If you have any questions, or anything to share, then, feel free to talk with my Ghoul, Edwin. He's aware of everything that goes on around here."
The 2 Assamites nod and look at Edwin.
With that, Seth gets up and takes his leave.
Edwin has his hands clasped together. His baggy eyes dart around the room. As a Ghoul, he can most certainly feel the weight of the assorted Kindred looking at him.
Svetlana, in the meantime, asks her Sire, "So, what you think?"
"About what?"
"About...mall and heartbeat sensors?"
"It's not something I'd wish to see come to fruition, Svetlana. But, we have to tread cautiously."
"Hmm, da. Why did Seth ask us to deal with this?"
"He probably just doesn't want to get involved with this himself. I mean, he's the High Priest or whatever. He's probably got bigger issues to deal with than this."
Svetlana muses, "Or maybe it is test?"
John softly chuckles, "Yeah, maybe, but for what? Of our abilities? Maybe it was--"
This back and forth is interrupted by Vizier Mohammed.
John's face scrunches in annoyance, "Vizier Mohammed. What now?"
The Vizier bows his head slightly, "I bid you both my farewell. John. Svetlana. I shall see you both again on another night." He insincerely smiles, turns around, and leaves without another word.
Paul comes over and nudges John, "Y'know, John, between me and you...your Vizier is as spineless as they come."
John pointedly says, "He is not my Vizier."
"Hmm, yeah, sorry. Point is, Mohammed is the worst kind of coward. He'd fold for the right price," Paul snickers.
John scoffs, "Hmph, I don't disagree."
Svetlana chimes in, "Da. All he seems interested in talking about is this Alamut."
Paul heartily laughs, "Et tu (LAT: You too), huh? Haha. Yeah, he caught me and spent- I kid you not- 6 freaking hours talking my head off about Alamut!"
Paul shakes his head, "I had to pretend to be interested for the sake of diplomacy and all, but I was almost ready to just stake him, haha!"
The Aesthete Harpy further adds, "For a Banu Haqim, he's...pretty spineless."
He looks at Svetlana and John with his kind gray eyes and says, "Oh! Sorry, no offense, of course."
Svetlana shrugs, "Is OK."
John nods, "We noticed that when we first spoke to him."
Paul asks, "Maybe you uh...Blade people are different?"
John slowly nods, "We sure hope so."
Svetlana adds, "Da."
The Toreador Harpy proceeds to inquire, "So, John, where are you from? Your accent is American but I can't seem to pin down where exactly you're from."
"I'm from Magnolia City."
"Magnolia City, eh? Never been there myself. Is it nice?" Paul asks.
John gives a few brief descriptions about the city of his origin, "There's a lot of history in the city. But I had to...leave after a few unfortunate events. Decided to try my luck elsewhere."
Paul raises an eyebrow, "What happened? If you don't mind my asking, of course."
"Just some stuff I'd rather not talk about." It's a very vague answer, and there's a look of regret all over John's face.
Paul nods and respectfully doesn't press the issue any further.
John changes the subject, "How about you, Paul? Where are you from?"
Paul smiles and stretches out his hands, "I'm just a simple boy from the Midwest, haha! Indiana, to be precise, heh heh!"
The Harpy turns his attention to Svetlana, "And how 'bout you, huh?"
Svetlana replies, "I was born in Ukraine SSR."
Paul speaks a few words of Ukrainian to Svetlana.
She seems impressed that he can speak her language, "Ah, you know Ukrainian?"
"Well, only a few words here and there, haha! It's the UAE, people from all the world flock here!" Paul chuckles.
He queries, "Do you think you'll stay here in Al-Kushraf?"
Svetlana looks at her Sire and nods, unsure, "If we are wanted. So far, I get impression that we are not welcome."
Paul shakes his head, "Nonsense! There's plenty of room in this city for the Blade of Haqim."
The Harpy lowers his voice and leans closer, "If anything, the Ministry has a monopoly on nearly everything in this city, it'd be nice to have a few...new and pretty faces around, haha!"
John softly chuckles, "Hmm, I think I get what you mean."
Svetlana adds, "Da."
Paul continues, "Anyway, it was nice talking to you 2. We really should keep in touch, yes?"
Svetlana presses her lips into a thin line, "Still no phone. All in Dubai with many of my other things."
John silently nods along.
Paul clicks his tongue, "Ah, shame! It's too risky to go back and get it, right?"
John answers, "Very. We have no idea what's going on over there."
Paul shrugs, "Well, if you ever need anything, even something as simple as a new phone, then let me know. I have a lot of connections with some people who deal with that stuff."
John plainly says, "We'll be sure to keep that in mind. Thank you."
Svetlana smiles, "Dyakuyu (UA: Thank you)."
There's a genuine and heartfelt sincerity in Paul's eyes, something that Svetlana and John pick up on. He leaves them with a parting wave.
"He seems like a decent guy," John notes.
Svetlana agrees, "Da. Decent...guy."
The opposite of decent plods towards the Assamite duo. Sebastian has some blood smeared on his chin and collar. It seems that he got a bit messy while feeding.
Svetlana grimaces and points out, "You have blood on your mouth."
Sebastian gasps and hastily wipes it off with his thumb, "Ah, shit, sorry. Y'know how...messy these things can get."
John remains silent.
The Toreador Primogen only manages to make a bigger mess all over his face, "Damnit! Sorry about that. I'm not usually this messy when I feed, honest!"
Svetlana raises an eyebrow and asks, "Then why do you always look messy?"
Sebastian dismissively waves his hand, "That's not what I'm here to talk to you about."
Svetlana furrows her brow, "Oh, what do you want to speak about?"
Sebastian adjusts his collar and starts, "Are you free this Thursday?"
Svetlana keeps her guard up and looks askance at the Toreador Primogen, "Why do you ask?"
Sebastian clears his throat, "I have an opportunity for you."
"What kind of 'opportunity'?" Svetlana asks, maintaining her guard.
The Vanitas elaborates, "You see, you're a beautiful woman. Petite, Slavic, blonde, and...green eyes. You could be a model if you wanted to."
"A model?" Svetlana's eyes widen in surprise.
Sebastian nods, "Yeah, a model. If you really put some oomph into it, you really could have the world at your feet. You've...got it all, you know?"
Svetlana furrows her brow again, "Are you certain?"
Sebastian awkwardly chuckles and explains, "That's why I wanna invite you for a um...photoshoot this Thursday."
Svetlana raises her eyebrow, "You want me to become a model? Why?"
Sebastian nervously chuckles, "Well, it's more of an audition, if you will. We got big names in the fashion industry looking for the next best thing, and well..."
He gestures to her from head to toe, "I think you just might be...it. This could be your chance to become famous!" His tone is laced with excitement and anticipation.
Svetlana glances at John, unsure of what to make of all this.
Her Sire shrugs, "Svetlana, I am your Sire. Not your father."
Sebastian smirks and continues, "So, how 'bout it, huh? Svetlana...the next big hit appearing on the covers of Vogue magazine, walking down the catwalks of Paris! This is your chance to live the dream!"
Svetlana softly giggles at that, "Hah. Da. The dream."
She looks at her Sire again, "I...I suppose it will not hurt to take few pictures and mix with other people. Da. I will be there."
Sebastian's hands come together in a clap, "Splendid! Just splendid! All right, then! I'll see you Thursday at 8:00 PM at the Mohaimen Studio! You don't have to bring anything, just your stunning looks and natural Slavic charm!"
Before turning around to leave he says, "Also, a damsel in distress vibe wouldn't hurt. Get those adorable, helpless puppy dog eyes and bat 'em around all you want."
John snickers. Svetlana is anything but a damsel in distress.
Once Seb is out of earshot, John smirks, "Hey, good for you."
Svetlana nervously gulps, "Are you sure, John? I know it is just few pictures, but what you said to me about keeping eye on him, what did you mean by that?"
John shrugs and vaguely replies, "Eh, just keep an eye out for Toreadors in general. They have a Compulsion for Obsession, a tendency to get so fixated on 1 thing and 1 thing alone that it nearly consumes them."
Svetlana slowly nods, "Da, I see. And, you are not...bothered by this?"
"Not as much, no. We all have our shortcomings, Svetlana."
"Hmm, true," Svetlana licks her lips and looks around at all the Kindred gathered.
John knows the thought that currently occupies her head, "I know that look, Svetlana. Don't worry, when the time is right, you will get to Diablerize someone soon."
Svetlana cracks a small grin, "I--I hope so."
"Oh, you will," John promises.
Svetlana smiles, "But who? Or how? O--Or where?"
John warmly smiles, "I promise you 1 thing: it will be an unforgettable experience."
Svetlana is reassured by her Sire's words and the warm smile that graces his lips.
The 2 Assamites turn around and continue surveying the room.
Mark takes his leave, and the sound of the helicopter he arrived in gradually fades away.
Absalom exchanges a few words with Edwin and approaches the 2 Assamites. Both of them straighten up and put on a serious face.
Absalom gazes at the 2 of them with those blue eyes of his and says, "John. Childe of John. At least there are some familiar faces in this city."
John just nods.
Svetlana looks nervous, but tries her best to remain calm, "Da. Is good t--to see you Absalom."
The Malkavian Elder regards them with a neutral expression and says, "There is much to be done here in Al-Kushraf."
John replies, "Indeed. There's also a lot we have to learn about this city, so..."
Absalom points at the Setite High Priest's Ghoul, "You are in league with Seth?"
"Yes. He asked us for help with a favor, and we agreed to assist him."
A subtle smile forms on the corner's of the Elder Lunatic's lips, "Ah, very good. What does he have you do?"
Svetlana shakily responds, "We cannot say."
Absalom chuckles, "That's wise, Childe of John. Do not reveal all just because someone asked. You teach her well, John. But, I suppose there is still much she has yet to learn."
He stares at the 2 of them, his eyes looking like they're boring straight into their souls, "So, what else has Seth said to you?"
John plainly answers, "Nothing that's of importance to you. N--No disrespect."
Absalom shakes his head, "Ah, Sire of Svetlana. I wonder, what kind of fate awaits you? Hmm...well, then. We shall see."
The doors swing open and in walks a man in his early-20s.
He's wearing a casual dark-blue shirt, pleated pants, and messy shoes. He has a very thin physique and his hair is bleached and disheveled.
He has a kinda crazy look about him.
He gasps and stops in his tracks when he sees Svetlana. He points to her and blurts out, "Oh, shit! She's real! The Assamite! She's REAL! REALLY REAL!"
John frowns, "What's the meaning of this? Who's he? Have we met before?"
Absalom holds his hands out, "I apologize. This...is Mr. Bean. He is a Malkavian under my...protection and mentorship."
Svetlana and John exchange a confused glance with each other.
Mr. Bean excitedly exclaims, "Oh, this is amazing! Oh, this is fucking amaaaaaazing! Man, I--I--"
Absalom holds up a finger, "Mr. Bean. Manners. We discussed this, did we not? We do not point at people."
Mr. Bean slowly lowers his finger and sheepishly chuckles, "Heh, right. Right. Sorry."
Svetlana's eyebrows rise, "Do I know you from somewhere?"
Mr. Bean pipes up again, "Oh, no, but I know you! Assamite! I--I saw you in my--"
Absalom clears his throat and shoots a quick but stern glance at the young Malkavian.
Mr. Bean nervously chuckles, "Hehe, right. Right."
Absalom says to him, "Mr. Bean, you were supposed to be here sooner. What happened?"
Mr. Bean answers, "Uh...I was feeding down in the basement and this chick, like, wanted MORE...but I just couldn't um...y'know."
The Malkavian Elder asks, "Did you lick her wounds shut, at least?"
Mr. Bean nods like a very eager and obedient child, "Mm-hmm. Yep. I sure did. N--Not like last time."
Absalom sighs, "Very good. Now, why don't you go over there and wait. I will conclude my business here and then we can leave."
Mr. Bean sheepishly nods, "Yessir. OK, Absalom. Gotcha. Haha."
He scampers off like an eager puppy, very twitchy and excited. He looks back at Svetlana a few times and even waves to her.
She shyly smiles and waves back.
Absalom shakes his head, "Apologies. Mr. Bean's visions...overwhelm him at times. He simply reminds me of me when I was a Fledgling."
John and Svetlana look at each other.
Svetlana gulps and says, "V--Visions? Ah, I see."
John looks over at Mr. Bean for a second, "Well, at least he's well-mannered, heh."
The Malkavian Primogen retorts, "It is not easy, John, to be overwhelmed by such visions. I help Mr. Bean through the worst of them. He is my responsibility now, and I do not intend to fail him."
"I can tell. You care a lot about him," John comments.
Absalom replies, "As much as I can, yes."
Svetlana shakily asks, "What v--vision did Mr. Bean have about me? Was it good or--"
She stifles a gasp, "--not good?"
Absalom calmly responds, "It was very vague, Childe of John. Keep in mind that not all we Seers see is relevant or worth anything. And besides, Mr. Bean's visions are...difficult to comprehend at times."
The Malkavian Elder concludes, "We shall see what fate awaits the both of you." There is a certain sinister grimness to his tone.
Somehow, one suspects that he knows more than he is letting on.
A look of fear comes over Svetlana's face, "Da. I--I understand, Absalom. Thank you."
Absalom curtly bows his head and leaves.
John reassures his Childe, "It's OK. Don't worry. We're Banu Haqim, right? We can handle whatever crap's flung our way. We've come this far, haven't we?"
Svetlana softly smiles, "Da. Yes. Yes, we have."
John continues, "I still have to teach you how to cope with these...feelings and anxieties. I know Unlife can be pretty damn overwhelming at times, but I got you, OK?"
Svetlana thanks her Sire for everything that he has done for her, for all the sacrifices that he's made for her.
A part of her still feels that she doesn't deserve it.
She can only hope that the future will be brighter for the both of them, that their luck will turn around in the vast metropolis of Al-Kushraf.
Will their luck turn around or will this be their end?
Only time will tell, and it sure has a lot to say!
Seeing that there's nothing else to be done here, the 2 Banu Haqim head for the elevators. Before doing so, they make sure to get their weapons back from the people who confiscated them at the door.
Oddly enough, there's quite a few Kindred (and Ghouls) gathered near the elevators, milling about, chatting with each other.
A few are texting on their phones whilst others impatiently tap their foot, hoping the elevators will arrive soon.
Some of them are even the Setites who had stormed out earlier.
1 of them accosts John and Svetlana, "Hey, you 2! Bladeites!"
John rolls his eyes when he's called that, "How may we help you?" His tone is polite but laced with a bit of annoyance.
It's a mask, an act, something he puts on to seem...friendly to his new hosts in this city.
He knows what these Serpents really think of the Banu Haqim and the Blade of Haqim, and it's not the nicest thing.
(Far from it, in fact).
The old Serpent contemptuously says, "I do a lot of business with Israelis. It'd be real nice if you'd stay away from them." His voice drips with spite. This is personal.
He's not asking. He's telling. Demanding, even.
He holds up a finger and adds, "So, it'd be nice if you crazies didn't go around slicing their necks, or whatever it is you usually do. Oh, yes, I know the rumors of what you savages do. All too well."
His tone is sharp and cutting. He's not even trying to hide his disdain. There's a hint of disgust on his face when he looks at the 2 Assamites.
John claps back, "You do business with child-killers and bloodthirsty thieves?" He's not afraid to show his disdain either.
The Serpent gets all riled up and says, "You're no different from those terrorists, you--"
John holds out his hand, "It's no point debating this. You have your mind all made up about this." The look on his face is cold.
John's fingers curl into a fist, but he resists the urge to lash out.
Besides, it'd be real unwise to attack someone in Elysium.
The old guy scoffs and utters a few choice words before heading off. He's not too pleased.
His friends are glaring at John and Svetlana and they don't take kindly to the 2 Assamites being in their presence. It's obvious they're just waiting for a chance to pounce and start a fight.
But the duo do not give them the satisfaction, and so the elevator doors open up and everyone boards.
The old dude holds out his hands, "We're already over capacity. Wait for the next one."
John scoffs as the elevator doors close. The Setite and his buddies give a smug smile and a mocking laugh. They're enjoying this, aren't they?
What a bunch of slithery assholes.
There's another group of 4 Ministers waiting in front of another elevator.
They say nothing and board the elevator along with John and Svetlana when the doors open.
The 2 Banu Haqim make their way through the lobby and walk outside into the vast and busy city.
There's a lot to do and a lot to explore, so, they might as well start by getting acquainted with their new surroundings.
Sure, it's been a few weeks, but still...
After all, it's important for a vampire to know the ins and outs of the places that they frequent.
John sighs deeply, "Well, that was some night, huh?"
Svetlana scoffs, "Da." She looks at the ground, her hands tightly gripping her daggers. Her knuckles are almost turning white.
Her Sire asks, "Are you OK?" He can feel the frustration and anxiety building up inside his Childe. It's not too hard to see it.
He apologizes, "I'm sorry I had to get you from your babysitting work. I know we both need the money, but we needed to be here tonight." He looks at her, hoping she'll forgive him.
Svetlana slowly nods, "I understand. It was...very important, right?"
John shrugs a shoulder, "Yet, I felt that we called here just so we can be chewed out by those Vipers." He shakes his head and looks up at the dark night sky.
Svetlana asks, "Is there anything else we must do tonight?"
"No. Not really. And once again, Svetlana, I'm really sorry. If I had known that they were gonna do this, I'd have come alone."
Svetlana gently pats John's tense shoulder, "Is not your fault, John. We were not prepared for such...scrutiny, no? Besides, I was able to speak to and meet with new people. This is good."
"True. We met quite a few new and interesting people," John smirks. He appreciates his Childe's positivity.
John tells her, "C'mon, I'll drop you back at your Haven."
Svetlana politely declines, "I think I will walk. But, thank you for offer, John."
John smiles at her, "Yeah, no problem. Stay safe out there."
He looks up and down the street, his eyes surveying the various shops, buildings, and the many, many cars whizzing by. There are a lot of mortals around, mostly in groups and cliques.
Like Dubai, the nightlife in Al-Kushraf is vibrant and energetic, full of life and vigor.
He turns to face his Childe and gives her a pat on the shoulder.
She looks him in the eye, her lips slightly curling upwards, and her eyes gleaming.
Once again, John promises his Childe, "Once I find someone for you to Diablerize, it'll change your Unlife forever."
Svetlana lowers her gaze and shakily responds, "Da, it is what I am looking forward to the most, John. It is feeling that I cannot explain, all I know is I must do it."
The Sire and the Childe look into each other's eyes, both filled with anticipation for the nights to come.
They share a quick smile and walk in opposite directions, each hoping that the future holds a better tomorrow.
(Or, at the very least, a slightly less-terrible tomorrow).
John pulls out his iPod and shoves a earphone deep in his ears.
"Here we go..." He presses the play button and starts humming along to some Kristin Mainhart tunes.
She's got a great voice, and it really sets the mood for his long drive home.
The sound of the city fades away and it's replaced with the sound of the songs that bring him some peace and quiet.
It's not an easy thing to achieve. He can never be truly at peace, especially not in his Unlife.
But, it's the little things that keep him rooted, that help him get through the nights and all the shit that comes with it.
Sometimes, the songs remind him of certain things in his mortal life. Some things, however, he would like to completely forget, if he had the chance to do so.
Svetlana slowly walks back to her Haven. She smiles at how vibrant and lively the city is at this time of the night.
There's a lot for her to mull over, but 1 thing keeps nagging at her- Mr. Bean's vision.
What is it? What did that Kook see? Is her fate tied to his?
It's something that she'd like to know.
However, she'll find out soon enough.
In nearly every way, Al-Kushraf is just like Dubai. Some travel bloggers even call it "Ersatz Dubai" because of how similar it is to that place.
The dumb buildings (aka the architectural equivalent of a petrodollar dick measuring contest), the superficiality, the obscene wealth, and the general vibe.
In essence, it is a golden skeleton- a gilded cage of a city.
It's a playground for the rich and tasteless, but it's an absolute nightmare for the poor and downtrodden who are lured here with the chance to make it big.
Seized passports, slave labor (in all but name), human rights violations up the wazoo, prejudice and intolerance towards LGBTQ people, etc.
It ain’t all it’s cracked up to be. Don't be fooled by the palm trees and fake, plastic asses. This city is just as rotten as its neighbors.
It's just more hidden. More discreet. Like a rotting carcass underneath the shifting sands, or a venomous viper in a very fancy basket.
Al-Kushraf is built on the backs of the poor and the oppressed, and not many seem to care, not many are willing to stop this from happening, let alone address the myriad of problems that exist here.
But, perhaps, a few good people and a few good deeds are all it takes to turn this around a bit?
A few good people like John and Svetlana, for instance?
We shall see.
Chapter 3: Dangerous Are They Who Dream During The Day
Meanwhile, at Seth's Haven...
The High Priest's Haven is quite large and spacious. Carpeted floors, very dim lighting, and the walls are adorned with some patterned wallpaper.
It's a very lavish and expensive place. The furniture looks rather modern and it's all white.
There aren't any major sources of light due to the Setites and their Clan's Bane- they Abhor the Light.
Any light, be it natural or artificial, causes great pain and makes them recoil. Direct illumination aggravates them greatly and can be outright crippling, especially if it's done on purpose (or very intense).
A few dim orange lights are the only source of lighting in Seth's abode, and they are all strategically placed along the walls.
Seth is seated on a brown sofa in the living room, 1 leg folded over the other.
He seems to be casually conversing with another man.
"So, Gallagher...how are things?"
Gallagher is another Serpent. He looks to be in his 40s, very muscular build, with thick, bushy eyebrows. He has a neatly trimmed beard and a head full of salt and pepper hair.
He wears a casual brown blazer, a black shirt, and a pair of brown pants.
Gallagher was also the Sheriff of Dubai, but he...stepped down from that position due to certain differences with Prince Angela.
Gallagher shrugs, "Same shit, different night. How 'bout you, Seth? Still playing chess?"
Seth sighs, "More or less."
Gallagher laughs, "Oh, you're so fucking modest, Seth. What's on your mind, buddy?"
Seth steeples his fingers together, "I spoke to those 2 Assamites earlier. You know them, don't you?"
Gallagher grunts in derision, "I sure fucking do."
Seth elaborates, "I have a feeling that I may need their assistance in the near future."
Gallagher rolls his brown eyes, indifferent, "Whatever. If that Australian bitch had let me do my job, then maybe she'd have kept that head of hers attached to her pretty curvy body."
Seth replies, "Angela was a problem. She had to be removed either way. For a Gangrel, she was far too compassionate and caring. She let her emotions cloud her judgement."
He pauses and gives a sideways glance at the former Sheriff of Dubai, "She wasn't decisive enough. That is a problem. One we cannot afford to have."
Gallagher snickers, "Exactly. And, I gotta hand it to ya, Seth. Using those um..."
He snaps his fingers and frowns, trying to recall something.
Seth smoothly reminds him, "Imbued. Hunters."
Gallagher snaps his fingers and chuckles, "Ah, yeah! Those crazy fuckers! Heh. Well, anyway, it was a helluva way to off the bitch and the rest of those goddamn Ferals!"
He chuckles, "Too bad you couldn't get 'em to dust off those fuckin' Saracens, too! Hahahaha! Woulda made for a helluva show, that's for damn sure!"
Seth sighs, "Understand 1 thing, Gallagher. The Imbued are unpredictable and unstable, and the last thing we need is them running amok in our streets."
He adds, "That's why I have to...delicately guide them. Watch over them, mold them, and shape them in the way that I see fit. If they are allowed to run free, then who knows what kind of havoc they will wreak."
Gallagher nods, "I know. You're not the type of guy who lets chaos go unchecked."
Seth shakes his head, "I prefer strategically controlled chaos."
The High Priest adds, "There are...some things that must happen in the next few nights, and the Imbued are a means to this end. Actually, they are 1 of the many means currently at our disposal."
Gallagher slowly nods, "I hear ya, buddy. Just make sure you keep those Blade of Haqim fanatics on a short fucking leash."
Seth smiles, "Of course. I'm no amateur, Gallagher."
Gallagher laughs, "Yeah. Yeah. You've been playing this game a lot longer than me, that's for damn sure."
Seth vaguely gestures, "It's the Great Game, my friend. We all play it, some unwittingly, others...deliberately."
Gallagher smirks, "Yeah, and we're gonna win this next round, Seth. We are gonna take the motherfucking crown! Haha!"
Seth chuckles, "I couldn't have said it better myself. The next few nights are crucial."
Seth expectantly looks at the ex-Sheriff, "I can continue to count on your support and assistance, right, old friend?"
Gallagher puts his large hand on Seth's shoulder, "'Course, you can, Seth. Anything for another Typhonist, right?"
Seth curtly nods, "It is by and through Typhon's grace that we remain united and of a similar vision and goal." The Serpent's amber eyes light up and he has a slight smile on his face.
It's a subtle, almost unnoticeable smile. Like a mask. It doesn't last. It disappears as fast as it appeared.
Gallagher adds, "And it's through the guidance and wisdom of the humble Priests that we stay on the straight and narrow, eh? Heheh."
Seth faux-humbly bows his head, "I am but a conduit and voice of Apep."
He knows how to play the game as well as anyone, maybe even better than some.
Gallagher cracks his knuckles and groans, "Ugh, shit. What about the Caitiff, especially that N0S4A2 creep? I DON'T like unknowns, Seth."
Seth remains calm, "Maybe this N0S4A2 is one of us, but they don't know it. A lot of Caitiff simply don't know what Clan they are a part of. A pity, really."
He pauses and brings something interesting up, "You initially thought you were a Brujah before your true nature was revealed, didn't you, Gallagher?"
Gallagher snorts and huffs, "Yeah, yeah. Don't rub it in. The first few years of my Unlife spent as a--a Punk! Fuck, gah!"
His expression hardens and he looks like he's about to beat someone into a bloody pulp. His fingers are even curling and twitching as though he's struggling to maintain some semblance of control and composure.
But, he relaxes his fingers and takes a deep breath.
Seth lowers his voice, "Easy, now. I need you for what comes next, old friend. I can't have you blowing a gasket or getting angry about your 'time' as a Brujah. What's done is done. All's well that ends well."
The Setite High Priest gives the Sheriff a patient look.
Gallagher exhales a few times, "I just...ah, never mind. Still, you think this N0S4A2 creep might be a Follower of Set, like us?"
"It is possible. What's the word on the street regarding N0S4A2?"
"Well, they're pretty a fucking good racecar driver. They've got their uh...IROC-Z doing 0-to-100 in less than 10 seconds flat! Heh."
"Is that so?" Seth inquires.
He knows Gallagher has done some betting on semi-legal street races before.
Seth proceeds to ask, "I know you well enough to know that you've placed some money down on N0S4A2. How much?"
The former Sheriff chuckles, "Fuck, am I that predictable? Anyway, I put down a 1000 dirhams...as a starting wager, heh. It was just to...keep things interesting, you know?"
"Indeed. Any other tidbits?" Seth asks. He doesn't seem to care all that much, but he does wanna know more about N0S4A2.
Gallagher grunts, "Nah, but you get people from all-fucking-over flocking to this creep, asking for their autograph or whatever."
He continues, "N0S4A2 is a mini media sensation on some of the...seedier parts of the Internet. There's an offer for a 100,000 dirhams to the first person who can rip N0S4A2's helmet off and unmask the mystery driver!"
Seth smirks, "Quite intriguing." There is a certain look in his eye that Gallagher picks up on.
Gallagher quips, "But N0S4A2 is a slippery little bastard. You can't just sneak up on them. They're pretty well-built, too."
"Hmm, I can imagine."
Gallagher rolls his eyes, "Some guy tried that shit at 1 of the races, and...N0S4A2 shoved him to the ground like a ragdoll, man."
Seth muses, "Maybe they're actually Brujah, heh."
Gallagher scoffs, "Don't push it, Seth. Anyway, I could uncover more about this big creep. Then, again, what if they are...y'know?"
Seth raises an eyebrow, unsure, "Are what, Gallagher?"
Gallagher spells it out, "NOS-FOUR-AYY-TWO. Nosferatu, what if there's a really, REALLY fucking ugly Sewer Rat under that helmet?"
Seth chuckles, "Then, it's the worst street name I've ever heard, but if it's a Nosferatu...that changes things a little."
Gallagher inquires, "Does it?" His expression is one of a skeptical, and mildly curious, nature.
Seth elaborates, "Then, they will be the Nosferatu Clan's problem. And the Caitiff will only be fragmented further."
"OK. What about those other Clans? You think they might cause problems, too?"
Seth confidently responds, "Clans Malkavian, Ventrue, and Toreador look ready to play ball. They will cooperate with us, of that I have no doubt."
Gallagher compliments his pal, "Y'know, Seth, you really got it all wrapped around your pinky, huh?"
Seth accepts the compliment and queries, "And what about you, Gallagher? Anything...or anybody wrapped around those fingers of yours? Hmm?"
Gallagher triumphantly huffs, "Yeah. I've got a few interesting projects. Just in case." He flashes his sharp teeth. They gleam in the dim orange lighting of Seth's abode.
"That's good. Just be sure to keep your profile low, all right? You already have quite a...reputation among our new arrivals."
Gallagher dismissively waves his hand, "Ah, fuck 'em! There wouldn't be any 'new arrivals' if that broad had let me do my damn job as Sheriff! Hah! I told her not to go all fucking soft, but nooooo!"
He leans closer to the Setite High Priest and continues, "The Dove Prince just had to let John get away with Embracing that Russian chick WITHOUT seeking her permission first!"
Seth motions for the pissed off ex-Sheriff to go on, which he does, "Look, the Traditions are pretty clear on this- if it's an unauthorized Embrace, both fuckin' heads come off."
"And she wouldn't let you do what needed to be done. What was her excuse?"
Gallagher grunts a few times, "She said it was an emergency situation, and that Russian chick would've bled out or died or some shit, but I told her that we needed to make a clear-ass example outta people who don't follow the goddamn Traditions!"
Seth nods, contemplatively.
Gallagher sighs, "After that, I fucking had it. I told her I was gonna quit if she didn't let me enforce the law, and well...yeah, she told me 'bugger off' in that silly Aussie accent of hers, pfft."
"Terrible. Yet, I still see these 2 Assamites of being of some use to us."
Gallagher narrows his eyes, skeptical, "Are you sure you wanna rope them in?"
"Rope them in? Of course not. But, it's better than just outright destroying them, isn't it?"
Seth tells his buddy, "As a matter of fact, I gave them a little...mission. A test, if you will."
"This is a dangerous game you're playing, Seth. Banu Haqim don't fuck around, and the Blade of Haqim are all a bunch of fucking extremists," Gallagher points out.
He doesn't even bother trying to hide the contempt and scorn in his voice. He can't stand the Assamites.
The feeling is (most likely) mutual.
Seth calms the angry guy down, "A test, yes. But I'm going to be sending a few...surprises their way."
Gallagher grins, "Ahh, OK, OK. You convinced me. What kind, if you don't mind me askin'?"
Seth plainly answers, "A few Hunters. I'll give them just enough information, so there's plausible deniability in the case that they fail to get rid of the 2 Assamites."
Seth adds, "After all, it is just a test. It's not a very hard one either."
"Right. So, uh...you point a few of those Imbued freaks to where those 2 are gonna be and...?"
Seth sighs, "Svetlana and John will be at Palm Springs Mall, taking care of something delicate. It's a big mall, lots of security blind spots, too."
The High Priest explains, "As I said, this is just a test for both them and the Hunters I'll send their way. If they pass, then perhaps they are more valuable to me alive."
Gallagher smirks, "And if they fail?"
Seth returns the smirk, "Then, it'll be nothing to us but water under the bridge."
Gallagher remarks, "Damn. I tell you, Seth, you are a fuckin' mastermind, buddy! And a great fucking friend. Always looking out for us, right?"
Seth slightly bows his head, "Of course. It is the will of Typhon, and what is decreed must be done and WILL be done."
Seth looks at the former Sheriff again, "Have faith, my friend. Soon, what was taken from you will be restored twofold."
The Setite High Priest cracks a smug smile when he sees the eager gleam in Gallagher's brown eyes.
Seth rises and Gallagher follows suit, "Is there anything else on your mind, Gallagher? You know that you can always come to me with any questions of a...spiritual nature."
There's a certain graciousness and warmth to Seth's tone that almost sounds sincere, almost too much so.
The ex-Sheriff shakes his head, "Nah. Nah, Seth, buddy. I--I'm OK. Really. So, how's Edwin doing? Still Ghouling on your behalf?"
Seth laughs, "Yes, Edwin is as faithful and devoted as they come. You really should consider having a Ghoul around, you know?"
Gallagher cackles, "Hey, don'tcha worry about it, buddy!"
Seth raises an eyebrow, "If you say so. Remember: the next few nights are crucial. Keep a low profile and try not to...start any fights, hmm?"
Gallagher rolls his eyes, "Yeah, yeah, sure, Seth." He lets out an annoyed chuckle.
He walks over to the front door. He stops in his tracks, and Seth's right there beside him, ready to see him out.
Seth opens the door and says to him, "It was good to talk again, Gallagher. Keep what I said in mind. A twofold restoration is coming your way soon. Very soon."
Gallagher smiles, "Oh, yeah? That'd be great! Just, uh...just keep me in mind for when those Assamite crazies finally snap, and I'll be there at the front of the line, ready to take their fuckin' heads off."
Seth warmly nods and sees his fellow Viper out of his Haven.
As Gallagher drives away in a blue sedan, the Setite High Priest begins to contemplate a few things. Seth paces around his lavish abode.
His grim and calculating thought process is interrupted by plodding footsteps that slowly descend down the stairs.
Edwin clears his throat, his hands clasped in front of him, "Sir, did everything go well tonight?"
Seth slowly turns to face his loyal Ghoul and smiles, "Oh, yes, Edwin. Yes. Peachy. Any issues on your end?"
Edwin shakes his head, "No."
"Hmm, and what's the latest from the compound? Any issues I should be made aware of?"
Edwin tells him, "Things are progressing well there. You were right in assuming that a...stronger security presence would discourage potential thefts and break-ins."
The Ghoul quickly adds, "Oh, and, 1 of the girls who was complaining earlier was removed from her shift and replaced with someone a bit more..."
For a moment, Edwin struggles to come up with the right word to say.
Seth sharply interjects, "Loyal? Subservient?"
"Y--Yes, sir."
Seth places his cold hand on Edwin's shoulder, "Well done, Edwin. That is indeed excellent news. I appreciate that you managed to resolve the matter with such efficiency. It was the correct thing to do, and you handled it well, as usual."
Edwin's eyes light up when the Serpent compliments him, "Oh, tha--thank you, sir. You truly are Typhon's favored."
Of course the Ghoul drinks the Kool-Aid as well.
Seth lets go of the Edwin's shoulder and heads to his meditation and prayer room, twirling his cane on the way in.
He stops mid-spin and says, "Also, keep the computer ready. I have some...chatting I must do."
"Of course, sir," Edwin answers.
"Oh, and Edwin," Seth calls out.
Edwin stands at attention and replies, "Yes, sir?"
"The next few nights are crucial."
With that, he spends the next hour or so, deep in meditation.
It's just him and the many thoughts running through his mind.
What is his true end goal, one wonders?
An hour later...
Seth sits in front of a computer, squinting at the dim screen, typing on his keyboard.
"Now...let's see what my contacts are up to..."
He opens up the Hunter-net.org chat and notices a notification: "1 New Message(s) from StarLight51."
The message reads: "Hello, ScalyHand06, I was told to contact you about potential supernatural activity in the city of Al-Kushraf, UAE."
The message continues: "I'm an expat working in the area and I'm ready to make a change in my life. I'm ready to fight! I want to get involved and I want to get in touch with someone like you who can teach me how to help end this scourge!"
The Setite High Priest chuckles and responds to the message: "OK, StarLight51. Your eagerness is certainly something I appreciate."
Within an instant, StarLight51 replies: "TYVM, Scaly! Ever since that phone call, my entire world has been upside down!"
Seth's fingers move across the keyboard: "Tell me more about yourself, StarLight51."
StarLight51 responds: "Oh, haha, just call me Star. As I said, I'm an expat working in this city for the past 5-ish years. I was drawn to the easy living, quick money, and all that other stuff that these countries promise, y'know?"
"Sure."
"Heh. It was great in the beginning, but things aren't looking so rosy these days, that's for sure."
"I'm sorry to hear that."
"Yeah, thanx, Scaly. After that phone call, everything just flipped. It was like my eyes had been opened for the FIRST time ever and I'm soooo glad I had that experience."
"Yes, indeed. The Imbuing is quite an overwhelming thing."
Star's reply takes a little while longer to arrive, and Seth takes this time to look away from the screen for a few moments.
After a while, he receives another message: "Yep. I thought I was gonna die after the seizure hit, but nah, dude, it was like being reborn."
Seth chuckles again: "So, you want to learn more about how to get involved and fight back, yes?"
The next reply arrives almost instantly, and Seth reads it: "Yeah, I do! Vampires, werewolves, specters, mummies, demons, and whatever. Shit, dude, it's like a whole freaking world out there!"
Seth cheekily replies: "A world of darkness."
"Hahaha! Yeah! And we're the light meant to push it all back!"
"Indeed."
"And it's just...the world needs to know, dude."
"That's the thing, Star. They wouldn't believe you, anyway. No, our war must be waged from the shadows."
"Damn, dude! I getcha, but it still pisses me off, you know?"
Seth patiently replies: "Of course. But that is how things must be. For your protection. If you go public, you risk exposure, and it can and WILL end badly. Not just for you, but for all of us."
Seth calmly sits there, his amber eyes fixed on the computer screen, twitching involuntarily.
His fingers tap against the desk he's seated in front of, and they do so in an impatient manner.
Star finally responds: "Yeah, yeah, but all this shit is just soooooo exciting, y'know! I mean, VAMPIRES, dude! Crayzeeee, huh?"
The vampire chuckles to himself and types: "They're a lot less glamorous and more dangerous than the stories paint them out to be."
Star quickly replies: "That's why we're the good guys, dude!"
Seth is more than willing to play along, of course. He types: "This is beyond such concepts and notions of good and evil, my friend."
Star immediately asks: "How so?" Clearly, this one is very eager to learn more.
"You will understand in due time, StarLight51. The question now remains: can I trust you with what I'm about to tell you?"
"Uh, yeah, I guess."
"Very well. I have to ask, do you have a friend you can bring along?"
"Um...yep. Reacher_961. I met him IRL last night. He's a bit older and a lot more experienced, but I think he's into the same stuff as me, y'know?"
"Good. What I'm about to tell you cannot be shared with anyone else, understood."
Star types: "Yee. I know the 4 Rules of this site and all. How can I trust YOU, Scaly?"
Seth shakes his head and sighs: "My track record on this site speaks for itself, doesn't it? Who do you think fed your friends the info on Dubai, hmm?"
"Shit, really? Damn, Scaly, you're some kinda bigshot around here, huh?"
":-)"
Star queries: "So, where u from, Scaly?"
Seth responds: "Forgot Rule 1 so soon? 'Post only minimal information about yourself.'"
":-(( sorry, but it's just a simple Q."
Seth sighs and makes something up: "Burundi."
He is most certainly NOT from there!
Star replies: "Ah, nice! nice! So, why'd you come to the UAE, you also looking 4 the hi-life or some such?"
"Something like that, yes."
Star types: "I'm from Massachusetts."
Seth feigns ignorance: "I'm afraid I have no idea where that is, my friend."
Star replies with multiple laughing emojis.
Seth gets back on track: "Focus. I have it on good authority that there will be a few vampires gathered at Palm Springs Mall tomorrow night. At ~9 PM."
"What? Like, what are they gonna do there?"
Seth clarifies: "What do vampires usually do, hmm?"
"Ohhhh, ewwww. Gross. Yuck! I heard Reacher_961 told me about how they bite ppl and shit, ew, ew, ew! Nope, nuh uh, I should probs start wearing some garlic necklaces or some such, huh? lol!"
Seth pointedly responds: "Garlic does nothing against such creatures."
"WHAT, REALLY?!"
"Yes, that was another one of their many classic misdirections, my friend."
"NO WAY!"
"Yes way. Remember Rule 4: 'Reading doesn't make you an expert.'"
Star replies: "Yeah, sure. But how do we kill these bastards? Like, garlic, wooden stakes, crucifixes, crosses, silver bullets, sunlight, holy water, etc. etc., right?"
Seth responds: "You will find out soon enough. Garlic is useless and is best thrown in food. Wooden stakes don't 'kill' them, per se."
"HUH?!"
Seth sighs: "Patience. Wooden stakes induce paralysis, it makes them completely vulnerable."
Star takes time to respond: "Oh, wow, OK. Go on."
Seth gladly obliges: "Holy symbols and holy water are far too risky for amateurs like you and are simply not worth it. Silver bullets are meant for werewolves."
":-O"
":-O Indeed."
"What about sunlight or is that another misdirection of theirs?"
"Oh, sunlight will finish them off, if you manage to pacify them with a wooden stake first."
"OK! Sweet, we can do this, Scaly!"
"Of course you can. There are only a few vampires there."
"How many?"
Seth replies: "Exact numbers are hard to come by. I've had to go through great trouble just to get this much info to you."
Star types: "Yeah, fair 'nuff. Me and Reacher should be able 2 handle it though. We're ready to rock, dude!"
Seth smiles and types: "Excellent. I look forward to hearing about your success, StarLight51."
"Thanks, Scaly!"
Seth tells himself, "Or your failure, heh."
His fingers move across the keyboard: "Will there be anything else? Do you have the necessary equipment?"
"Nah, I think I'm all set. I have an old table that I can use to make the stakes, haha! What about fire?"
Seth decides to play his cards close to his chest: "Fire is as pointless as holy water. Stake them and leave them out in the sun."
"Cool, cool."
Seth asks: "Is there anything else?"
He already knows the answer. He's done this before, after all. He knows how to play the game.
Star responds: "Nah, we are all set! Me and Reacher are gonna kick some vampire ass tomorrow night and take back this city!!!! YEEEHAWWW!"
Seth mumbles, "Or have your asses kicked and necks slashed by 2 very skilled Assamites...but, sure..."
Star adds: "TYSM, Scaly, I mean it!"
Seth quickly replies: "No, thank YOU for your cooperation and understanding. Stay frosty out there, Hunter."
Star says: "You 2, Scaly!"
The chat comes to an end and Seth looks away from the screen, blinking rapidly.
He twitches and groans as the dim light from the computer monitor continues to irritate him. He covers his face with his hands for a moment, waiting for the pain to go away.
It usually takes a while, but he's used to it by now.
Seth takes his hands away from his face and slowly looks at the screen again.
Somewhere on the other side of this city, a very bored middle class woman in her 30s throws her head back and sharply exhales.
StarLight51 is in her 30s. She short brown hair, baggy eyes, and a big nose. She's also got some freckles on her cheeks.
She has a pair of thick, rectangular glasses perched on her nose and wears a loose-fitting pair of blue jeans and a red tank top.
A decidedly middle class woman spicing up her decidedly boring middle class life with something as thrilling as vampire hunting.
She feels like some kind of a real-life superheroine. It's all so exciting and glamorous for her, taking back the city and all that...stuff.
She immediately messages her buddy, Reacher_961: "HEY, babe! Guess what?"
Reacher takes his time to reply: "I'm sleeping here, sheesh, do u know what time it is?!"
Star quickly types back: "Sry :-("
"Hmph, it better be good. I'm tired of sitting around and waiting all the time. We could use some action!"
Star types: "OK, OK, here's the scoop. Someone said we're gonna have some action tomorrow night at the Palm Springs Mall!"
"That's all well and good, but do we even have a plan? Plenty of amateurs wind up dead or exsanguinated by those creeps cuz they don't have a fucking plan. And you can't plan for every eventuality, either."
Star replies: "Hey, chill out, bro, I gotchu, don't worry about it."
Reacher sarcastically replies: "That's VERY reassuring, Star. Please tell me you have something a little more than 'I gotchu'."
Star quickly types: "OK, OK, look. We stake those creeps and leave them out in the sun, right?"
Reacher doesn't seem convinced: "Yeah, if you can get close enough to them without getting bit and sucked dry! Hah, easier said than done!"
"Awww, cmon! Don't be such a spoilsport! You're a big guy, right?"
"Yes, and I'm also a married guy with 2 kids. Your point is...??"
"Oh, yeah, haha! Forgot about that. Don't worry, dude, I gotchu."
Reacher sarcastically replies: "Again, that's VERY reassuring, Star, thank you."
Star rolls her eyes: "Ugh, you worry way 2 much. We just have 2 be on the lookout for anyone shady in that mall 2moro nite."
Reacher huffs: "Do you have any idea how huge that fucking mall is?!"
"I know, but we just gotta be on the lookout for anyone shady. I feel like I have this weird 6th sense after my Imbuing."
"Lovely."
"NO! Really, I swear I noticed my grandma's um...ghost the other day."
Reacher points out: "Except, we're dealing with literal vampires and NOT grandma's ghost."
Star sighs: "Look, just stick close 2 me, alrite? Vamps stick out like a sore thumb and I'm pretty sure I can sniff 'em out."
"That sounds like an excellent plan."
Star types: "Hey, I don't see you coming up with anything better, pal!"
"Because I'm tired and I have bloody work 2moro morning. You try being a bloody foreman for a crew that don't even speak English! Ugh, I'm exhausted..."
Star tries to cheer the man up: "Hey, hey. it's all gonna be worth it, dude! We're gonna take back the city! YEEHAW!"
Reacher types: "That'd be nice. I'd like me kids to come home without any bite marks."
"Yeah, totes. Do it for them."
Reacher sighs: "Goodnight, Star, and please don't randomly message me at odd hours of the night. I do love my wife very much and would like to keep it that way."
Star types: "Sure thing! Nitey nite, dude! ;-) See ya 2moro!"
"Yeah, yeah, see you..."
Reacher, who is a muscular British guy in his 40s, sighs and shuts off his computer.
He rubs his forehead and yawns, "Bloody hell."
His Imbuement was similar to Star's- a phone call followed by a pretty nasty seizure.
After that, he woke up to find himself in the hospital and found out that he (sort of) had powers now! He had been transformed into an actual supernatural(ish) Hunter of the things that go bump in the night!
Reacher_961's real name is Bob and StarLight51's real name is Sarah.
Bob takes some sleeping pills before kissing his 2 small kids on the forehead goodnight.
Sarah stays awake, excited for tomorrow night. She can't wait to get her hands on some vampires and stake them.
She feels like the heroine of her own blockbuster action movie.
She might very well end up a discarded extra, however...just some dead body lying face down in some random part of the mall.
This could also be the last time Bob would ever kiss his 2 children goodnight.
But, to someone like Seth, Bob and Sarah are just tools to be used and discarded at his discretion.
And tomorrow night will be an excellent test for both of them...or perhaps, their last night on Earth!
The reason Seth is able to influence and direct the Hunters is because the Setites (as a Clan) are the ones responsible for the creation of Hunter-net.org.
Yep, the Ministry created the entire thing. The current iteration of the website is hosted by companies who are affiliated with (or under the full control of) Elder Ministers.
It is even rumored that Typhon is the one who Imbues people, but so far, this remains unconfirmed.
They say that Typhon is but 1 of the many Messengers, or Heralds- the mysterious entities who have Imbued ordinary humans to combat the monsters in their midst.
Certain high-ranking Elders within the Snake Clan seized upon an opportunity to utilize the Internet to control and (possibly) direct the actions of the Imbued.
Seth is pretty much privy to all of this and was even around for some of the earlier attempts at establishing a Hunter-only forum on the web.
The Elders of the Ministry, especially the High Priests, have a keen interest in the Imbued and what they are capable of.
The results have been a...mixed bag, to say the least. Some catastrophic failures and some very interesting success stories, that's for sure.
But, the point of Hunter-net.org is to gather and direct the Imbued through whatever means necessary. This can include deception, misdirection, manipulation, outright lying, and more.
The Setites who moderate the website go to great lengths to ensure that information pertaining to the "true" nature of vampires (and other supernatural creatures) is kept to a minimum.
The idea is to get the Hunters out there and fighting against the enemies of the Ministry, while simultaneously keeping their more zealous activities in check.
After the Hunter-led raid on Dubai (misattributed to the Second Inquisition), there's been an influx of Hunters into the UAE. Seth has used this influx to his advantage, of course.
The Imbued are like pawns or chess pieces to him, and he directs them as he sees fit.
He used them to get rid of the Gangrel in Dubai and drive the remaining Kindred into either Al-Kushraf or Abu Dhabi. However, he had hoped that the Hunters would've at least gotten rid of the other Kindred as well, not just the Ferals.
Still, he managed to ensure that Prince Angela (aka the Dove Prince) met her Final Death at the hands of Imbued.
This, of course, is a massive game changer for Seth's own personal ambition and power play. Still, he has much work to do. His plans require more preparation and careful execution, after all.
And it just so happens that John and Svetlana are now parts of that grand and ambitious plan.
But, they're not the only parts to his plan; just the most immediate and important pieces on the great board.
Another part of this mysterious plan is the Second Inquisition.
In this part of the world, the Second Inquisition is none other than Israel's Unit 8211- an unofficial, off-the-books, extension of the notorious Unit 8200.
Unit 8211 is a branch of the Coalition that is meant to exclusively deal with the supernatural. They KNOW exactly who (and what) they fight against.
They have no problem taking credit for the raid on Dubai, despite not lifting a finger or knowing anything about it.
Their main goal is to make sure that the Kindred here in the UAE are wiped out.
Seth has been asking around about the Blade of Haqim. Given the Blade's...views on the state of Israel, Seth is interested in using them to get rid of the Unit 8211 threat, permanently.
The Blade of Haqim was formed shortly after the 1948 Nakba. It was formed in response to the atrocities committed by the Israelis against the Palestinian people.
A group of wise and learned Palestinian Banu Haqim gathered under the dark and gloomy night and decided to band together for mutual protection, cooperation, and survival.
From there, they sought out more members, which came from all walks of life. And with every new member came new skills and abilities.
Human rights lawyers, scholars, activists, resistance fighters, and anyone who is genuinely sympathetic to the Palestinian cause is Embraced into the ranks of the Blade.
It was founded by an Elder named Fatima Ibn Rashid, the Mubarak brothers (Salim and Malik), and Dr. George Fateh (the man who who would go on to become John's mentor).
There were a few other founding members, but they would tragically meet Final Death as Israel ramped up its military assaults in the early days of its existence.
As the years went on, the Blade continued to Embrace new members, expanding their numbers. They were mostly concentrated in Occupied Palestine, but they are slowly starting to branch out in the 21st century.
With Israel's surveillance apparatus becoming more and more expansive, the Blade of Haqim had to move around and find new ways to stay ahead of their enemies (both Kindred and mortal alike).
In the 2000s, they started to expand outside of the MENA (Middle East and North Africa) region, establishing "chapters" in South America, Europe, and North America.
There's supposed to be a strong Blade presence amongst the Palestinian diaspora communities in Latin America, though this has yet to be confirmed.
The Blade of Haqim has no love for the Zionist project, believing it to be one of the greatest injustices inflicted upon the Palestinian people.
Of course, the Blade isn't just about slicing necks and Judging the unjust.
It's also about bearing witness, transmitting ideas and culture, and telling stories. And who better for such a lofty (and necessary) task than immortal creatures of the night?
Besides, to serve a cause higher and greater than oneself is a very good way to stay in touch with one's Humanity and to keep the inner Beast from completely taking over.
The other Sects don't care about the Blade's activities- it varies from simple indifference to outright hostility.
Oddly enough, the Anarchs are the ones who are most hostile to those of the Blade. The Sabbat is indifferent.
The Ashirra have contempt for the Blade, viewing them as far too dangerous and heretical.
The Camarilla keep a watchful eye on the Blade of Haqim in their Domains, but know the stories of their...less than diplomatic interactions with other vampires.
The only Sect that remains somewhat friendly towards the Blade of Haqim is the Autarkis. They refuse to make an enemy out of the Blade of Haqim, viewing their goals as noble and generally agreeable.
Apart from fighting the Zionists, the Blade of Haqim have given themselves another mandate- to destroy the False Assamites.
These False Assamites are Banu Haqim who reject the Clan's rich history and lore in favor of some made-up bullshit.
They call themselves the "Bnei HaShem". They were formed around the same time that Theodor Herzl's insane ideas were put into practice.
The Bnei HaShem reject everything about their Assamite heritage, even going so far as to denounce any connection with those of their Blood.
They have done unspeakable things, including betraying their fellow Banu Haqim. This has not gone unnoticed by the rest of the Clan.
Given how powerful and entrenched the Bnei HaShem are in Israel's politics, the other Banu Haqim have no choice but to let them do what they want.
But, they're still pretty pissed about it, understandably.
It's even rumored that one of Theodor Herzl's distant relatives is the progenitor of the Bnei HaShem Bloodline (if one can call it that).
They are said to lurk somewhere, in the shadows, waiting for the right opportunity to reveal themselves and enact their own crazy plans (whatever those are).
Seth, being the fairly well-connected man that he is, is privy to most of this interesting and deeply complex history.
And so, it's quite easy for him to manipulate the Assamites into doing his bidding.
His plan is to pit the handful of Blade of Haqim members in this city against the Israeli Unit 8211.
This will either backfire spectacularly or it will be a grand success, depending on the outcome.
He hopes that, with the SI out of the way, it'll be easier to enact his grand plan by moving on to the real prize.
Seth also believes that it might also be possible that someone from the Blade may be able to identify N0S4A2's true nature. Either way, it'll be something to worry about in the future.
If this racecar driver does turn out to be a Follower of Set, then they will be much more useful to the High Priest than the others.
With sunrise around the corner, Edwin knocks on his Domitor's door.
"It's open, Edwin."
Edwin clears his throat and steps in, squinting to see where Seth is in this near pitch-black room.
Seth is right in the middle, legs crossed, head bowed, and hands clasped together.
He's currently in the middle of his usual prayers and meditation.
The Ghoul steps up to the High Priest and says, "It is almost sunrise. I've already closed the shutters in your bedroom. I think it's time that you--"
Seth clicks his tongue, "Ah, ah, ah. I will go when I am ready. You know, it is possible for us Kindred to withstand the rays of the sun, yes?"
Edwin nervously gulps.
Seth cracks a small smile, "It still destroys you in the end, but it depends on how...long you can last before you are inevitably consumed."
"..."
Seth senses his Ghoul's unease, "I'm not trying to scare you, Edwin. You know, my Sire made me do this, too."
Edwin meekly asks, "Do--do what?"
"It was certainly...enlightening. But, most importantly, it was a test, Edwin."
Edwin's hands shake slightly, "A test of...?"
Seth smoothly responds, "Of my faith in Typhon."
Edwin quietly gasps.
Seth rises up to his feet and tells him, "It is not all fun and games. When my Sire made me stand out in the sun for a few minutes, I thought, for sure, that I was going to meet Final Death. The light was so intense, it was the worst..."
Seth laughs, "But, alas, even that was nothing compared to my faith in Typhon's might and power."
Edwin smiles, "Yes, yes, of course, sir. Y--You are TRULY Typhon's favored. Most favored, even."
Seth softly chuckles, "Oh, Edwin. You flatter me. While I rest, I want you to compile what info we've gathered on Palm Springs Mall. That heartbeat sensor project cannot be allowed to proceed. You understand that, right?"
Edwin nods, "Yes, sir. It's a relief that we have help from those 2 Banu Haqim."
"A relief, indeed." Seth's tone demonstrates that he doesn't really mean this.
"And what is your plan for them after that?"
"Hmm? What do you mean?"
"I mean, what do we do with them?"
Seth pats his Ghoul on the shoulder, feeling a bit sluggish, "You let me worry about that."
Edwin compliantly bows his head, "Yes, sir. Do you require any help getting...tucked in?"
Seth laughs a tired laugh, "Oh, no. Haha. Just focus on your tasks. Also, keep an eye on the compound. Make sure everyone is doing what they're supposed to do."
"Yes, sir. I shall drive there at noon to check up on things."
Seth nods, "Very good, Edwin."
Edwin smiles, "Is there anything else, sir?"
Seth shakes his head, "No. Just go now, and don't disturb me."
Edwin wordlessly bows his head and scurries off.
Seth trudges to his bedroom and lies on his bed.
Chapter 4: Mall Rats
In good time, the sun, that great ball of fire, rises and beams down upon the city of Al-Kushraf.
In the early hours of the morning, the city is bathed in a hazy, yet gentle yellow-orange glow.
On the outskirts of this vast metropolis, the sands of the desert stretch out endlessly, punctuated by rocky outcroppings.
The sands shift and blow in the soft morning breeze.
The Kindred in this part of the world are now fast asleep, pulled into that long and seemingly bottomless abyss of the day-slumber.
The mortals awaken to face another "bright" day of the usual- work, school, errands, errands, and more errands.
2 mortals in particular, the Imbued Hunters Sarah and Bob, go about their usual routine of coffee, work, and such.
During the afternoon time, as Bob is walking back to the construction site, he is accosted by his fellow Hunter, Sarah. He nearly jumps out of his skin when he sees her.
She's holding 2 cups of coffee in her hands, grinning like a maniac.
He's not very happy about this, "Jesus, Star, you scared the shite out of me!"
"Sorry, sorry. Here. I brought you coffee."
"No thanks," Bob grumpily declines, "what are you doing here? I thought we agreed to meet at the mall in the evening!"
Sarah shrugs, "Oh, well, more coffee for me, then. Uh...I just wanted to come say 'hi'."
Bob glowers at her, "Don't you have work?"
Sarah takes a long sip of her Starbucks coffee and smacks her lips, "Eh, I called in 'sick'."
Bob grunts, "Of course you did. What do you want, Star? Unlike you, I still 'ave a few hours left on me shift, so I'd like to get back to it."
"Oh, uh, well, I just wanted to, y'know, make sure we got everything ready--"
She leans in closer and whispers, her coffee breath hitting his face, "--for tonight's vampire hunt."
Bob pulls back and looks around, "Yeah, of course. Um...you got the weapons, right? Stakes, hmm?"
Sarah smiles and nods fervently, "Totally. I had this old table that I found in my garage! I thought we could use the wood from that!"
"Great, so, uh...how about uh...what else do we need?"
Sarah raises a finger and says, "I gotchu, don't ya worry."
Bob sighs, "I just wanna go back home to me wife and 2 kids tonight, OK?"
Sarah eagerly reassures her fellow Hunter, "And you WILL, OK? We just have to find anyone in the mall who's all shady and shifty and um...well, y'know."
Bob inhales and exhales, "Yes, grim stuff. Does this make us murderers, then?"
Sarah scoffs, "Psssh, I mean vamps are already dead, dude! So, nah, it's not murder if they're already dead. We're just uh...rectifying the situation, y'know?"
"Hmph. Still feels a little like murder to me."
Sarah shoves Bob, "Oh, c'mon, don't be such a spoilsport! There's no freaking way I'm doing this on my own and there's ALSO no freaking way that I'm backing down."
"I never said--"
Sarah takes a larger sip of her coffee and interjects, "Look, Reacher, we--we have a chance to make a difference in this city. We have a chance to FIGHT BACK!"
Bob raises his arms in a pacifying gesture, "Hey, hey, easy, love. I did manage to get us some stuff from a friend who worked at the mall."
"Like what?"
"Employee access cards," Bob answers, sounding a bit tired.
Sarah excitedly pumps her fist, "YEAH! Sweet! Thanks, Reacher!"
Bob shakes his head and says, "Alright, I really do need to go, though."
"Why? I saw you at lunch for...like an hour or something."
Bob narrows his eyes at her, "Are you stalking me, Star?"
Sarah gasps, "Wha--NO! I just wanna make sure that you've got your head in the game."
She nervously takes another sip of her coffee, hands shaking.
Bob sighs deeply, "Sorry. It's bloody work again."
"Yeah, I can imagine. Construction foreman, huh?"
Bob ruefully remarks, "I think me bosses might be vampires..."
"OK...?"
He groans and pops his neck, "They keep piling the shite on to me, demanding more results and faster."
Bob grits his teeth, "But you try working with a lot of Pakis, Bangladeshis, and Indians who don't speak a lick of fucking English. It's a real pain, trust me."
Sarah quietly listens on, sipping the 2nd cup of coffee in her hand.
Bob bitterly laughs and declares, "The arseholes on the top exploit me and I exploit the sods below me."
Sarah grimaces, "Damn, Reacher. I'm sure it'll get better."
"You think?"
"I--I hope so. I mean that's why we're doing this whole vampire hunting thing, right? To uh--"
Bob grunts, "Yeah, yeah, I know. I just want to go home to me wife and kids tonight. Alive. Without any scratches or bite marks, preferably."
Sarah nods, "Totally. So, uh...what's your real name, anyway?"
Bob sighs, "Did you forget Rule 1, love? 'Post only minimal information about yourself.'"
(His disinterest in getting personal could not be more apparent).
Sarah sighs, "Hmph, fine. So, why Reacher_961?"
Bob answers, "Read a few novels by Lee Child. Jack Reacher. Ever heard of it?"
Sarah shakes her head, "Nope. More of a superhero gal myself, heh."
Bob clicks his tongue and scratches the back of his head, "Aye, whatever suits you, love. And, please no loitering around here. And NO stalking me. It's weird and creepy, honestly."
Sarah protests, "What, wha--but I was just--"
Bob puts on his hard hat and walks away, "Don't worry. I'll see you tonight at the mall. 9 PM."
Sarah throws her hands up in the air, "Uh, yeah, fine! Bye!"
2 amateur Hunters sent to possibly destroy 2 Assamites. What could possibly go wrong?
The sun begins its slow descent into the western horizon. The temperature continues to drop as the great fiery orb disappears beyond the distant sands.
It's now dark out. The streets and alleys of Al-Kushraf are busy once again.
And the night comes again, to bring a whole new slew of possibilities and opportunities.
Svetlana's dreams are haunted by screaming and explosions. She sees flames and smoke and many, many faceless silhouettes.
She jerks awake, blood running down her face and back.
Her green eyes are a tad bit wider than usual. Even her dead and shriveled heart begins to beat rapidly.
She looks around the dimly lit room, trying to get her bearings.
She realizes that she is in her bed and that she is not being attacked, nor is she in the middle of some horrid fire.
The Banu Haqim Neonate gulps and groans as she struggles to her feet.
Elsewhere, John awakens from his day-sleep. He does a few elaborate stretches and about a 100 sit-ups before heading for the shower.
He feels...good, for the most part, ready to face the night and the challenges that lie ahead.
He is, of course, apprehensive and anxious as well. But, he also has a job to do.
And he has to do it no matter what.
But, of course, as Svetlana's Sire, his 1st obligation is to her. She might be a Neonate (like him, sort of), but she still has a LONG WAY to go before she becomes a fully-fledged Kindred.
Until then, John will be her mentor and guardian.
Before heading for a shower, Svetlana curses a few times, noticing how bloodied her sheets are.
This has been the 3rd time these past few days. She always wakes up, scared, afraid, and slightly drenched in her own Vitae. It's just so strange!
She thought she had grown accustomed to her new (un)life, but not this.
Svetlana takes a very quick shower and dresses for the night- a simple long-sleeved shirt with no prints of any kind, a pair of skinny jeans, and some running shoes.
She straightens her blonde hair with a hair straightener she borrowed from a neighbor. Even though she's been in this city for a few weeks, she still doesn't have many of her own things, yet.
Most of them are still in her Haven in Dubai, which she had to abandon when the attacks came. With her Sire, she fled for dear Unlife, not looking back or daring to stop. It was absolutely terrifying.
John spends a few minutes practicing his Kenpo. He tries a few fancy kicks, turns, punches, and so forth.
It's been a long, LONG time since he's had to use his skills in an actual fight, so he's a wee bit rusty.
With the song "When Kenpo Strikes" by RedCloud blasting from his speakers, he gets the feel and rhythm of his body again.
His hands and legs move so quickly, that it's truly a blink-and-you'll-miss-it moment!
With the song coming to an end, he does a final bow and stops his music. He looks around, a satisfied look on his face.
It is at this time, that he remembers the advice of his mentor.
Dr. George Fateh's gentle voice echoes in John's head, "Remember, John. Celerity is a Discipline that is much more than enhanced speed. If you lose focus, even for a second, then you will suffer."
He recalls how Dr. George would take him to a racetrack and time him as he ran laps around the track.
Using the Celerity Discipline, John would go around that racetrack in mere seconds. Dr. George would even time the fast vampire. It was truly astonishing.
John remembers one time that he asked Dr. George, "W--Why does the world feel so...slow?"
Dr. Fateh chuckled, "Feel so slow? Is it because you are so fast, John?"
John shook his head, "No, I don't think so. It's just that I have this...energy, inside of me, and I just can't help but move. Constantly. I feel so twitchy and jumpy all the time."
Dr. Fateh warmly smiled, "Thankfully, you are not a Ravnos, haha. You must learn to stop every once in a while. Take in and appreciate your surroundings, John. Just...slow down."
John sighs, shaking his head, and snapping himself out of his reverie.
He sighs, "Ah...Dr. George. I really miss you, man. You were not my Sire, but I always considered you to be. I really did."
He wistfully says, "Stay safe, old man. Wherever you are. It's getting crazy out there..."
John chuckles to himself, recalling some more sagely and witty pieces of advice that Dr. Fateh would often give him.
One of the other bits of advice that his mentor gave him is a simple and clear one: "Do not let the Beast take over. Ever."
And, as John begins to leave his bedroom, he thinks, "You're right, old man. I've seen too many Kindred succumb to it."
Svetlana, meanwhile, prepares to head out. She returns the straightener to her neighbor, an Uzbekistani woman about her age (mortal age, that is).
She thanks her with a smile, "Thank you for letting me borrow this."
"It's no problem," her neighbor smiles back, "come by whenever you need! I'm here most of time!"
Svetlana smiles, "Spasibo (RU: Thank you)."
The neighbor grins, "Is there anything else you need, Svetlana?"
"No. I go now. Do Svidaniya (RU: Goodbye)!"
The nice neighbor waves, "Do Svidaniya!!"
As Svetlana presses the elevator button to head down, a soft rumbling noise is heard.
The Beast. Its eternal Hunger.
She is reminded of her neverending obligation- to feed it.
The elevator door opens, and she steps inside, pressing the button that leads to the lobby.
Svetlana decides to grab a quick "meal" before meeting her Sire.
Once at the lobby, she exchanges pleasantries with a few Russian-speaking restaurant workers. They look really tired and are just about ready to clock out for the night.
They complain about how tough work is (no surprise there).
Svetlana nods and parts ways with a gentle smile.
Once outside, she's hit with a rush of warm city air.
Her Beast roars, causing her eyes to briefly glow. She shuts her eyes and takes in a deep breath.
She opens them again and looks around, hoping that there's an unlucky mortal she can bite into for her tonight's "meal".
As she heads for a nearby bus stop, her ears are assaulted by the sounds of city life- cars honking, people talking, music playing.
It's mostly the loud honking that irritates her. She doesn't mind the people or the music, but those loud noises, especially the honking, are like nails on a chalkboard.
The bus arrives at the stop, and Svetlana boards, finding a seat for herself somewhere near the back.
She sighs, hoping that the night won't be too much of a hassle. On the bus, she controls her Hunger as best as she can.
Once at her destination, she disembarks and walks into a dark and tight alley.
The Beast snarls within her, "Feed. FEED."
Svetlana snarls as she smells the warm and fresh blood of a few mortals who are smoking and just about to leave a nearby office building.
The Beast takes hold of her mind and drives her towards the source of the sanguine scent, her green eyes glowing more and more.
She sets her eyes on her prey for tonight- a woman sweeping the sidewalk. The woman has brown hair and a stern look on her face. She looks like she's in her 50s.
Svetlana cautiously looks around, making sure that nobody is about to witness what happens next.
Svetlana mentally prepares herself for this. She exhales and creeps up behind the woman, 1 hand grabbing her, and the other clamped around her mouth.
She hisses and bares her fangs. The Assamite bites into the scared woman's neck and drinks from her.
The woman shrieks as she's being drained, but Svetlana keeps her from making too much noise.
After a few seconds, Svetlana pulls away, her fangs retracting into their sockets.
The woman is still alive, but she's quite dazed now. Svetlana makes sure to lick the puncture wounds shut.
She looks down at the woman and sighs, her face pale and expressionless.
Svetlana quietly whispers, "Sorry for trouble. But it is only way for me to survive."
She gives the woman a once-over and leaves her in the alley.
As Svetlana walks away from the woman, who is still trying to process what just happened, she whispers, "I am sorry for this. But this is what I am now."
A Beast she is, lest a Beast she becomes.
John wipes his mouth with the back of his hand and licks the remaining blood from his lips.
He gets in his dinky, perfectly serviceable car and drives to the mall.
Palm Springs Mall is just like any other mall in the world, just big, like a lot of things in the UAE.
John pulls into the basement's parking lot and parks his car. He locks it and walks towards the entrance.
The mall's doors are wide open, as they usually are at night. There are also cameras, as always.
He keeps his head low as he walks through the mall's vast and bright foyer and past the numerous shops.
He spots a few mall workers who are casually chatting in a corner, a few shoppers walking past him, and a handful of amateur security guards.
John walks up to the security office, his hands stuffed in the pockets of his long jacket.
He peeks around and notices that the glorified rent-a-cops are either asleep or intently listening to the radio.
Svetlana touches his shoulder, causing him to jump and spin around.
John quietly laughs and whispers, "Oh, shit! D--Don't do that, Svetlana."
Svetlana whispers back, "Sorry, I did not mean to scare you."
John quickly regains his composure, "It's OK. Well, it looks like we're early, huh?"
"Nyet (RU: No). It's 7:30 PM. We should look around for these...plans, no?"
John warily looks around the mall.
The bright lights bounce off the marble flooring. The glass walls of the shops display all manner of things. The smells and sounds of the mall are all around them.
John sighs, "It's a big mall. Where do we even start looking?"
Svetlana responds, "Best to look in areas where employees have access. Any computer system can also be of use."
"You think so?"
"Da (RU: Yes). It is like Seth said- their security is not so good. We will take advantage of this."
"Hmm, I agree, but getting to any restricted areas is gonna be impossible, unless..."
John expectantly looks at his Childe, "Unless you make use of your Obfuscate Discipline to sneak in."
Svetlana refuses, "Nyet. It is not something I am fully confident in. I am still trying to control and understand it."
John's eyes narrow, "Well, you'll have to get used to it, Svetlana."
"Is there no other way?"
John thinks for a few moments, "Actually, there might be..."
Svetlana beckons for her Sire to continue.
"Abdullah found a job here, selling phones, if you can believe it, heh."
Svetlana cracks a small smile, "Good for him. Do you know where he is working?"
"He works at a store on the 2nd floor, I think. It's near a clothing shop, if I recall correctly."
Svetlana glances in that direction and says, "OK, let us go. I know most of this mall."
John chuckles, "I'm sure you do."
"I do. I come here often. Very good discounts, John, even for men's clothes. You should consider buying something, no?"
John smirks, "Ah, Svetlana..."
He looks at her with a hint of pride, genuinely pleased in how she's turned out to be, despite everything she went through right before her Embrace.
John places a hand on her shoulder and smiles, "Maybe later. Come. We're here to work, after all."
The pair make their way towards the 2nd floor of this mall. Once there, they look at the nearby map and see that there are about 5 different phone shops there.
Svetlana decides to enter the one that seems most busy and active.
Nope, no Abdullah.
John looks at another phone store, this one near a Forever 21, "Nope. He's not in this one, either."
"Hmm," Svetlana thinks out loud, "We can check another floor, maybe?"
John sighs and nods, "Sure. Why not. If anyone can get us in those restricted areas, it's Abdullah."
Svetlana smirks, "Da, he is very smart and capable."
It appears that no phone shop on the 2nd floor employs anyone by the name of Abdullah Rachman.
John scratches his head in confusion, "But I remember he said he works in a phone shop."
Svetlana shrugs, "Maybe he quit?"
John replies, "Yeah, it's possible. Damn, I just wish we had a way of communicating. It feels so--so--"
Svetlana offers, "Stifling?"
"Yeah, that word. Exactly. Stifling."
She asks, "But SI are monitoring everything on these nights, are they not?"
He sighs, "Yeah, true, but it's the 21st century, Svetlana. How DO you manage without a phone, hmm?"
"Da, true. Phone is necessity of modern life...and Unlife, it would seem."
John tells his Childe a random fact, "Y'know, some Princes in certain Camarilla Domains would have you destroyed just for owning a phone?"
Svetlana gasps, "That is too far, no?"
"It's paranoia is what it is."
Svetlana wistfully remarks, "At least Prince Angela was not like that. She was benevolent Prince."
John cracks a small smile and slowly nods, opting to say nothing.
John shifts his weight to the balls of his feet and looks around the very crowded mall, deep in thought.
Svetlana, meanwhile, spots a familiar face amongst the crowd, but it's not Abdullah.
No, it's Edwin, Seth's Ghoul.
Svetlana tugs at her Sire's sleeve and nods over to where Edwin is awkwardly standing, not looking at anything in particular. He looks a bit out of place and uncomfortable. Not that this is unusual, but still.
His eyes are darting left and right. He's definitely on the lookout for something or someone.
The 2 Assamites walk over to the Ghoul and ask, "Hello, Edwin. What are you doing here?"
Edwin nervously smiles, "I have something that might--err, I mean Seth thought that this might be of use to you."
He produces a folded slip of paper, "Schematics and floor plans for the 3rd floor. That's where the central server room is located."
Svetlana takes the paper and politely says, "Oh, thank you. This will be very helpful for us."
Edwin nods his head, "None of us wish to see this project come to fruition."
John narrows his eyes, "Why couldn't you people just handle it?"
Edwin sighs, "You are aware of the Ministry Clan's Bane, yes?"
John shrugs a shoulder, "Oh, right. You're allergic to bright lights."
Edwin corrects the Assamite, "It's not necessarily how I would...describe it. Goodnight. Also, Seth would like to meet you when the job is done. At Elysium."
He turns on his heel and meanders off into the crowd. The 2 Assamites are left speechless. They watch him go and disappear into the crowd.
Svetlana looks down at the paper. She unfolds it and looks it over.
John nods to himself, "Interesting. Security in this mall is truly lax, but without a proper ID, we can't access any of the restricted areas."
"Da. But where is Abdullah?"
John bitterly chuckles, "I guess we'll have to search every phone shop in this mall. It's gonna take some time, that's for sure. You think we should split up?"
Svetlana fervently shakes her head, "No, no. I--I would prefer it if we went...together."
John narrows his eyes and looks at his Childe, concerned, "What's wrong, Svetlana? Is something the matter?"
She stammers, "N--No, it is just bad dreams again. That is all."
John gives her a reassuring pat on the back, "Don't fret, Svetlana. We're gonna be alright. Just keep your mind focused, OK?"
She nods and forces a smile. They resume their search for the elusive Abdullah. There are still a few floors left in this mall, after all.
John asks someone at a nearby kiosk, "How many phone shops are in this mall?"
The worker responds, "Err...about a dozen. Are you interested in shops that sell JUST phones, or are you on the lookout for other electronic gadgets, as well?"
John replies, "Uh...just the phones."
The worker points out, "I can also give you a list of the phone shops that are having sales and promos tonight."
John holds out his hand, "That won't be necessary."
The worker politely nods, "Will there be anything else, sir?"
"No. Thanks for your time."
"The Palm Springs Staff are here to serve your every need," the worker regurgitates, as if he had rehearsed that a 1000 times.
John smirks and looks around. The crowd seems to be swelling at this time of the evening.
The lights are as bright as ever, it's no wonder the Setites avoid this place! Shops with all manner of products and wares line the walls.
The mall's air conditioning unit hums away. John hears it from a distance. There's also a lot of chatter going on, as usual.
Svetlana stays close to her Sire, her head swiveling around, her green eyes darting. She feels a little anxious and trapped, that's why she needs a familiar (and trusted) face close by. It's comforting.
John clicks his tongue, "Well, we can't loiter around forever. I say we start at the ground floor and work our way up until we find Abdullah. We won't be able to go any further without him."
"Agreed. It is good idea, John." Svetlana's words come out quickly, betraying her unease.
They walk down the escalators to the ground floor and begin their search, walking past many stores and restaurants.
Svetlana strolls past a restaurant with Ukrainian food on the menu. Out of sheer curiosity, she walks in and absentmindedly looks at the menu.
Of course, she doesn't intend to order anything (for obvious reasons), but she's kinda curious to see what's on offer.
The restaurant is quite packed, waiters and waitresses running about. Many tables are occupied.
A few of the other tables have singles, groups of friends, and some families.
It's the usual on the menu- Chicken Kyiv, holubtsi, borshch, varenyky, banosh, and syrnyky, and so on and so forth.
Svetlana's green eyes light up. She misses real food. An eternal diet of blood, believe it or not, can get pretty fucking tiresome after a while.
She walks out, but not before taking a whiff of the aromas that pervade the space. It makes her feel a little hungry.
Hungry for more than just blood.
John waits outside, a smile forming on the edges of his lips, "Enjoy the trip down memory lane, Svetlana?"
"Tak (UA: Yes)," she responds, a bit too quickly, "But, it is...just food."
"If you say so."
And the 2 Assamites begin searching for Mr. Abdullah amongst the phone shops of the ground floor. Given how big this mall is, there's quite a lot of space to cover and it isn't a simple "go from point A to B" affair.
Thankfully, the legs of vampires do not tire as the legs of mortals are wont to do. So, they have that going for them, which is nice.
It's at this time, that the 2 Imbued Hunters, Sarah and Bob, make their way to the mall. They take a moment to catch their breaths and survey the area.
Bob, a cigarette hanging from his lips, grumbles, "I bloody hope that this plan of yours works, Star."
Sarah holds a large cup of coffee in her hands, "Yeah, yeah, you got those um...access cards, right?"
Bob asks her, "And you got those stakes?"
"Yeah, yeah, I--I can't believe we're actually gonna do this!" She takes a swig from her coffee.
Bob nods and pops his neck, "Yes. This should be a piece of cake, right, Star? Right?"
"Y--Yeah, totally. Um...OK, let's go."
"Let's."
No Abdullah on the ground floor. None of the people working at the phone shops seem to recognize the name or know who he is.
The 2 Assamites move on to the next floor. As they walk through the mall's main thoroughfare, Svetlana and John see a large fountain and a children's playground.
Svetlana comments, "There is a lot of places to hide and sneak around, no?"
John smirks, "Yup. Svetlana, I want you to try something."
Svetlana stops in her tracks, "What?"
John tells her, "I want you to activate your Obfuscate Discipline--"
Svetlana gasps, shocked that her Sire would suggest something so reckless.
She vehemently shakes her head, "N--Nyet. Nyet, Ni (UA: No)."
John assuages her fears, "There's so many people here, Svetlana. You have the advantage of a crowd. Besides, no one will even notice."
Svetlana's eyes nervously dart. She takes a step back. John senses her hesitation.
John reassures her, "It'll be fine, Svetlana."
"But--But it is Masquerade breach, no?"
John dismissively waves his hand, "There's no Sheriff in this city to punish us. No one cares about such things here, heh."
"What if someone does see us? I do not want to have to hurt anyone."
"I won't let you. Besides, you won't have to."
"Are you sure about this, John?"
John asks his Childe, "Have I ever let you down, Svetlana? Have I ever let you fall?"
"N--Nyet."
"Then trust me, OK? Trust my experience, Svetlana. And trust yourself. You can do this."
Svetlana exhales, trying to calm herself.
She stands in the middle of the crowd, looking timid and anxious. Her green eyes dart. She gulps and takes a deep breath.
She looks at her Sire and says, "OK. OK, I will do it."
John smiles, "Attagirl."
Svetlana exhales (even though she doesn't really have to) and shuts her eyes. The sounds of the mall- the large crowd, the screaming kids, the ringing bells of the various shops, and the bright lights- are all amplified.
She concentrates, her eyes still shut, and tries to focus.
After a few seconds, she vanishes from the sight of everyone else.
No one seems to notice. She even vanishes from John's sight, who's watching her intently.
Svetlana slowly opens her eyes. She looks at her hands and then at the crowd.
Her Sire, John, is still standing right where he was before, looking expectantly at the spot where she once was.
She nervously looks out exclaims in surprise, "Wow. I cannot be seen...or heard by anyone. It is like being...ghost."
Svetlana quietly laughs and moves around. She almost phases through a person before stepping to the side.
"Sorry. Sorry."
She looks back at her Sire, who is looking around, trying to find his invisible Childe amongst the crowd.
Svetlana quietly laughs again and smirks. She walks up behind him and taps his shoulder.
John calmly turns and asks, "Oh, uh...hey, where'd you go?"
Svetlana slowly starts to reappear, her form solidifying, her voice returning.
She smiles at her Sire, her confidence growing.
He tells her, "See? That wasn't so bad, was it?"
"Da. I just hope that I can control this Discipline well. I still feel I can do better."
Taking on a more encouraging tone, John tells her, "You did good enough. You can't expect to master Obfuscate in a single night."
Svetlana nods and inquires, "How long did it take for you to learn Celerity?"
"A very long time, Svetlana. I was way too fast in the beginning. Too twitchy and jumpy. Even Dr. Fateh initially had a lot of trouble keeping up with me, heh."
John thinks about this, "But, the important thing is that you are still learning...as am I."
"Da. We are Kindred. We have...lots of time."
John smirks, "Exactly. Well, let's look for Abdullah. It's getting pretty late and we still have a job to do."
As the 2 Assamites continue their search for the missing Abdullah, Sarah and Bob are looking around for anyone who looks all shady and shifty.
Bob takes a seat on a bench and groans slightly, "Bloody 'ell, what a huge mall! Are there any vampires around, Star?"
"Um..." Sarah, on her 4th cup of coffee, looks around and shrugs.
She sits next to Bob and sips her coffee, "Damn, I think I'm addicted to this stuff, haha!"
Bob rolls his eyes, "Ha-ha. We're all addicted to it, love. It's why we still 'ave our bloody jobs, yeah?"
Sarah quickly nods, "Yep! Oh, and I brought you something."
She gives Bob a small cup of coffee. He takes it, a bit begrudgingly, and sighs.
Bob drinks it. He doesn't like coffee, but he likes not falling asleep on the job, or worse.
He smacks his lips, "Espresso? Haven't had that in a long time, heh."
Sarah narrows her eyes and points to 2 random dudes wearing white thawbs and red checkered ghutrahs.
"Ooh, are those the vampires we're looking for?"
Bob follows her gaze, "What makes you say that?"
"They look tall, like, really tall. And pale, too!"
"Have you forgotten what country we're in, love?"
"No."
"Naw, they're not the vamps we're looking for."
Sarah muses, "We should probably look in the employee-only areas, right?"
Bob shakes his head, "No. We comb the public areas from top to bottom, then we check the employee-only areas."
"Why?"
Bob explains, "Vamps can be anywhere, Star. Anywhere. And everywhere. They're not gonna limit themselves to restricted areas. No, we have to cover as much ground as we can."
Sarah timidly asks, "Split up? I--It's just that what you're saying is gonna take us literal HOURS, dude!"
Bob sharply sighs and chugs the rest of his coffee down, "NO. We stick together. It's not worth the risk."
Sarah grins, "Aww, you care about me."
Bob scoffs, "Yeah, right. In your dreams, love."
Bob gets up and tosses the cup into the wrong bin. Sarah notices, but she doesn't say anything.
So much time has now passed that this search for Abdullah is starting to get a little frustrating.
Svetlana and John are growing exasperated. The crowds are still pouring into the mall and the shops are still wide open.
John tells his Childe, "Well, there are still some phone shops on the 5th floor."
Svetlana shakes her head and leans against a wall, "Is there no other way of getting to these restricted areas?"
"Well, Abdullah has an ID, and you're not sure you're capable of using Obfuscate to sneak in."
Svetlana lowers her head, feeling a tad bit guilty, "I'm sorry, John. I--"
John holds up his hand, "It's alright, Svetlana. It's not your fault. Seth should've provided us with a bit more help. We'll think of something, OK?"
Svetlana quietly murmurs, "Da, OK." She pauses for a moment, and then asks, "I am wondering something, John."
"Hmm?"
"Why did he choose us? Why not someone from other Clans?"
John shrugs, "I genuinely do not know, Svetlana. I--I wish that I did, but I have no idea why he'd choose us, especially after he and his buddies chewed us out for being with the Blade of Haqim."
Svetlana shakes her head, "I feel that there is some reason why he chose us." She looks up, her green eyes glistening.
John slowly nods and regards her, "You feel it, huh? Like, what, he's setting us up maybe, or--"
This conversation is interrupted by a overly eager and energetic perfume salesman, who approaches the Assamites.
His beard is immaculately trimmed. His thawb is white as snow. His shoes are shiny, and his socks are black.
He greets the Assamites, his voice loud and his words rushed but smooth, "Hello, hello! As-salamu alaykum! May I interest you in some perfume from my shop?"
John presses his lips into a thin smile and shakes his head.
The salesman is insistent and clicks his tongue, "Ah, habibi, come now, you look like a man of...discerning tastes."
He turns to Svetlana and sprays something onto a scent strip, "Smell this, miss!"
Svetlana tentatively takes the scented strip and makes a great effort to smell it. It's a sweet and rosy aroma.
She's not really sure how she feels about it. She doesn't have a particular strong or weak opinion.
The salesman looks at her expectantly, "So, what do you think, miss?"
Svetlana simply says, "Is not for me. I already have similar at home."
The salesman turns to John and sprays something else on a fresh scent strip. He fans it around and then offers it to him.
John doesn't bother trying to sniff it. He simply declines, "No, thank you. I'm fine."
"Not even for a gift? For you, habibi, I will charge 50 dirhams for a small bottle."
John tells the salesman, "I uh...don't have that kind of money on me right now--"
The salesman pouts a bit, "Oh, 40 dirhams, then, hmm?"
John decides to try his luck in another area, "Actually, I'm looking for someone who works here. His name's Abdullah Rachman."
The salesman smiles, his eyes gleaming, "Ah, yes! I know of him. The Syrian, yes, yes, he works right there," he points to the other side of this floor, "in that tech store, I think."
The salesman bows, "Go right ahead, habibi! I will be here, waiting."
John politely nods and thanks his lucky stars. Svetlana joins him and they head in the direction that the salesman pointed.
The 2 Assamites find the tech store. There are a few people there, browsing through various phones and tablets.
There he is- Abdullah Rachman. He's 19-years-old, dark skin, medium stature, with a head of dark hair combed to the side.
He's dressed in a simple casual jacket and baggy slacks, but not so much that he sticks out in a crowd.
John and Svetlana approach him.
Abdullah's blue-gray eyes light up when he sees John. He loudly proclaims, "Ah! John! Habibi! It is good to see you!"
The 2 Assamites share a tight hug, garnering a few questioning looks from the others.
Svetlana, who had been looking around nervously, relaxes a bit.
Abdullah clasps his hands together, "My, my, it has been so long since I have last seen you, habibi."
John remarks, "Too long, Abdullah, too long."
Abdullah turns to Svetlana and greets her, "As-salamu alaykum, Svetlana. How are you keeping?"
Svetlana returns his greeting, "Wa alaykumu s-salam, Abdullah. I am well."
Abdullah yells out a few words in Arabic to someone else and takes a moment to speak to John and Svetlana, "There. Now, come. I have been waiting for you. Let's talk outside."
Abdullah, like John and Svetlana, is a Kindred with the Blade of Haqim. Originally from the Golan Heights, his family had to seek refuge when Israel began taking over the region during the late 60s.
When he turned 19, he was Embraced into the Blade by a renowned Assamite Blood Sorcerer who had a reputation for Diablerizing Israeli Tremere in order to enhance his own Thaumaturgical powers.
As such, this has made Abdullah quite adept at the Blood Sorcery Discipline, so much so that he puts many Tremere to shame with his great command over the Blood.
As the 3 of them step outside, John asks, "So, this is where you're working now, huh?"
Abdullah responds, "Yes, I had to quit my other job. The boss was far too rude and withheld my salary for quite sometime."
John shakes his head, "Yep, sounds about right for bosses, heh."
Abdullah sighs, "I know, it is stupid and petty."
The 3 of them take a seat on a nearby bench.
Abdullah looks at Svetlana and inquires, "How are you finding this city? It is just like Dubai in every way, yes?"
"Da, almost too much like Dubai. What about you, how are you adjusting?"
Abdullah playfully shrugs, "Ah, I cannot complain too much, habibi. It keeps a roof over my head and enables me to sleep in peace during the day."
Abdullah's eyes grow distant, "It is still a bit difficult, I still think about returning to Syria one night, but I--I do not know if there will even be a Syria to return to on nights such as these..." There's a certain longing and sadness in his eyes.
Svetlana gently touches Abdullah's arm and offers a simple smile as a sign of comfort.
Abdullah continues, "So, what are you 2 here for? Shopping?"
John shakes his head, "Unfortunately, no. We're here for a task, a...mission, if you can even call it that."
Abdullah smirks, "Oh, really? Have you found any unjust that we might Judge?"
John replies, "No, we need something from you."
Abdullah's eyes widen, "Really? Anything for you, habibi. Anything at all."
A few security guards pass by the trio, talking on their radios and looking a bit tensed up.
Abdullah continues, "What can I do for you and Svetlana? Tell me, habibi."
John explains, "It's not...safe here. Let's meet at the food court on the 6th floor."
Abdullah nods, "Of course. It was my breaktime anyway. I just need to attend to something and I shall meet you there."
"Great."
"You have not told me what this task is yet."
"I will. In a few minutes."
Abdullah shrugs, "Alright. Svetlana, take care of your Sire. He is a good man."
Svetlana nods, "Da. I know. It is good to see you again, Abdullah."
Abdullah bows his head slightly, "Likewise, habibi."
He briskly walks off, a spring in his step, the faintest hint of a smirk on his lips.
Svetlana looks at John, "Abdullah is happy. It is good to see him again after so long."
"Yep. That kid, just 19. He's been through a lot, seen a lot, too. He's a good kid. Just needs a break, that's all."
"And he is safe here?"
"Oh, yeah. I mean, so long as he doesn't get on the wrong side of the Ministry or any other Clan, then, yep, he's fine here. That's why he works in that kinda shop. They don't ask too many questions, and it's a good place for him to work."
"And he is safe during the day?"
John responds, "He seems to be managing fine."
Svetlana stares off into the distance and absentmindedly says, "I cannot imagine that...being Embraced at such young age."
She continues, her words almost trailing off, "At least I was 28 when I got Embraced. I cannot imagine going through such change at 19."
John looks at the ground, contemplatively, "Hmm. As I understand, he was pretty insistent on getting Embraced. He wanted justice for what those Israeli bastards did to his village."
Svetlana looks at John, her eyes filled with concern, "What happened there?"
John tells his Childe, his eyes wide and serious, "I--It's too traumatic, Svetlana. When he first told me, I was...I was pretty shaken up by it."
He sighs, "He should probably tell you himself. It wouldn't feel right coming from me. It just wouldn't."
Svetlana respects her Sire's decision, "I understand, John. Only we can tell the stories of our own past, no?"
"Maybe. Let's go up to the food court, c'mon."
"Da."
The 2 Banu Haqim make their way to the food court via elevator. It's a bit cramped in the elevator and the crying and barfing baby certainly does not make the situation any more pleasant.
There are a lot of people around the food court, but not enough to make the place packed. There are a few office workers sitting around, chatting, a very tired and drained look on their faces.
As one would expect, there's the usual food outlets- KFC, McDonalds, Sbarro Pizza, etc.
There are a few vending machines with sodas and snacks. There is a coffee vending machine as well.
A lot of the people around are working professionals and families.
Abdullah is seated on a chair at a table in the far end of the food court, he waves his fellow Assamites over. Svetlana and John quickly head over, taking seats across from him.
The seats are plastic and orange in color, worn down from years of use. They’re sticky, grimy, and often wet from food and drink that has been spilled onto it, intentionally or not.
Svetlana looks around, checking for any potential threats.
John sits back, a look of relief on his face.
Abdullah asks, "So, what is this task you have for me, habibi?"
The faint smell of chilly cheese fries and pepperoni pizza wafts through the air, and the sound of a soda can popping open can be heard.
Svetlana's green eyes dart around, "We have a job, a...mission, and we need your help."
Abdullah nods, "OK. What kind of help?"
John starts by asking, "Employees get some kind of...ID card that they can use in the mall's restricted areas?"
Abdullah hesitates for a moment, "Yes, but those are strictly for employees only. Why?"
His eyes narrow, his face twisting into a grimace, "You are not planning on using it, are you?"
Svetlana, John, and Abdullah are interrupted by a couple of teenagers who have a few bags full of fast food.
They sit adjacent to the trio and begin to loudly talk to each other in Spanish.
The teenagers are not paying attention to the conversation between the Assamites. They seem pretty preoccupied with their own lives and world.
Svetlana turns to Abdullah, "Da, we need it. There is project in this mall that must be stopped."
Abdullah inquires, "What kind of a project? I've been working here for sometime, I would have heard something about it."
John chimes in, "From what we understand, it's top secret."
John explains the plans to install heartbeat sensors at all of this mall's entrances.
Meanwhile, Sarah and Bob have made their way to the food court. The 2 Hunters decide to grab a small cup of ice cream from the small Baskin Robbins stall in the middle of the food court.
Sarah orders a single scoop of French Vanilla with sprinkles. Bob orders a large cup of Superfudge Truffle.
Sarah looks askance at him and perches an eyebrow.
He returns her gaze, "What? I'm hungry!"
Sarah shrugs, "Yeah, but that sounds like the lite version of Death By Chocolate."
"Bollocks!"
Sarah lowers her voice, "I just don't want you to die of...whatever when we're on our way to hunt down a bunch of freaking vampires, sheesh."
Bob glares at her and responds, "I'll be fine. I need a way to keep me strength up, right?"
Sarah smirks, "OK, but if you pass out or whatever, I'm gonna bolt. I--I can't lug you around, big guy."
"I won't pass out. Don't worry, love, I'll be fine."
He winks at her, but it doesn't seem to have any effect on her.
They take their seats a few feet away from the conversing vampires. From where the 2 Hunters are seated, they have a good view of the food court.
Sarah leans forward and takes her first bite, "Mmmmm, soooo good."
Bob indifferently wolfs down his Superfudge Truffle in a few quick bites, the chocolate sauce almost dripping down his chin.
He sighs, his lips smacking, "Hmm. I've been needing a snack, the coffee just wasn't cutting it."
Sarah narrows her eyes and nods towards the 3 vampires, "Hey, Reacher, look at those 3."
Bob turns around to see, but Sarah grips his arm tightly, "Don't make a show of it, dummy. Just...turn...gently. OK?!"
Bob nods and throws a quick glance over his shoulder, taking a peek at the 3 Assamites.
He looks back at Sarah, "OK, let's see...3 people, no doubt. What makes them suspicious?"
Sarah pointedly asks, "What do you see on literally everyone else's table that you don't see on theirs?"
Bob takes some time to process her question, "Uh..."
Sarah excitedly hits the table, "FOOD! It's a freaking food court and those 3 haven't even eaten anything, heh. They're vampires, aren't they?"
Bob is unsure, "That's quite a stretch, Star. Maybe they already ate or are deciding on what to eat?"
Sarah insistently doubles down, "NO! If they were gonna decide, they'd walk around and do it, y'know, like regular people do when they're at a freaking FOOD COURT."
Bob stares at her, "Then, they already ate."
Sarah shakes her head, "Where's their trays at, then, hmm? Where's the tissues they'd be using if they had been eating something? Where's their used cups? Hmm, hmm?"
Bob sighs and shakes his head, "You're just picking some random faces in the crowd, making assumptions, and jumping to wild conclusions. That's not how we do things, Star."
Sarah shrugs and takes another lick of her French Vanilla, a few sprinkles falling on the table, "I--I just have this gut feeling that there's something up with those 3."
"'Gut feeling'? Really, that's what we're going with? Vibes, as you Americans call it...blimey. We're going to need something a wee bit more substantial than that, love."
Sarah sharply exhales and squints at the 3 Assamites. They're still talking. No one around them has noticed anything strange.
She turns to her fellow Hunter and whispers, "What do we do now, dude? You have a plan?"
Bob shrugs, "I thought YOU had a plan, Star."
Sarah clicks her tongue, irritated, "I'm telling you, Reacher--hey, wait!"
"What?"
"What would your Jack Reacher do in a situation like this, hmm?"
Bob thinks for a few moments, "Well, let's see, he would uh...he'd probably have a gun." He pats his jacket. Nothing there.
He goes on, "Hmm. OK, he'd probably find the nearest bathroom, take a piss, wash his hands, and then he'd come out and beat the crap outta the vamps."
"Wha...? I thought this dude would be a little more badass than that."
Bob indifferently tells her, "Well, you asked me what he'd do if he were in our shoes."
Sarah groans and rolls her eyes, "Whatever. Well, I'm telling you, man! Something's up with those 3."
Abdullah nods, keenly taking in every word that Svetlana and John are saying, fully concentrated and serious.
He says, "This is all very concerning. I know of many Kindred who work in this mall. Such a plan would be...disastrous for all of us, habibi. We should not let it pass." He looks at around, his face is grim.
His eyes are resolute.
He reaches into his jacket and fishes out an keycard, "This is it, I hope that this is all that you require of me. I could get into trouble if anyone found out." He slides it across the table.
John grabs it and inspects it, "Thank you, Abdullah. Really, we owe you one."
Abdullah softly laughs, "John, habibi, we have been through so much together."
John solemnly nods, "Yes, we have...habibi."
Abdullah smirks, "Ah, your Arabic is still as poor as ever."
He shrugs, "I wish you and your Childe good luck in this task of yours."
Sarah gasps when she sees John pocketing Abdullah's ID, "H--Holy shit, Reacher, did you see that?"
Bob rolls his eyes, "Sarah, now, you're just grasping for straws here--"
Sarah hisses at her fellow Imbued, "No, no, that dude handed a...card that kinda looks like the card we have to that other dude."
Bob turns his head slightly, his eyes narrowed. He squints as best as he can and watches the Assamites, trying his hardest to see what Sarah sees.
Sarah excitedly whispers, "That was some secret handoff!"
"And that means they're vampires? It could be anything else. Shady, sure. Vampires, I--"
Sarah shushes her companion and spends a few moments looking at Svetlana, "That...chick, she looks so...pale."
Bob concurs, "Yeah, really pale and those dark circles under her eyes..." He taps the table with his index finger, his face twisted into a grimace.
He grudgingly says, "Hmm, maybe we do need to do some more digging on this."
Sarah smiles, feeling somewhat vindicated.
Abdullah spends a few more moments chatting about this and that, then he stands up and says, "I have to get back to work. If I am away for too long, they'll get suspicious. Take care of each other, my friends."
He smiles at John and Svetlana. Svetlana smiles back. John nods his head.
Abdullah bows, turns around, and walks off, the sound of his footsteps muffled by the crowds that are around them.
Sarah whispers to Bob, "Dude, that chick's face is so fucking pale, dude! She should be in the hospital, seriously! HOW is she even walking around normally??!"
Bob muses, "On the Hunter-net forums, they say that vampirism is a condition where you're dead...and yet, not."
Sarah groans, "Ugh, that's so...against the laws of nature, eugh. How the heck is that even possible?"
"Dunno. It's best if you don't think too hard on it, love."
"Do we uh...do we do anything? Or like..."
Bob hesitantly responds, "We'll follow the pale woman and her friend around, see if there's anything they do that's suspicious, or out of the ordinary, at least."
Sarah presses her lips into a thin smile and eagerly nods.
Svetlana and her Sire look around the food court, she asks, "Do you...miss eating food, John?"
"Sometimes. How 'bout you? I saw the way you were looking at the menu in that Ukrainian restaurant, heh."
She quickly shakes her head and turns away, embarrassed, "I--I was thinking of my...babushka."
As she's about to say more, a little toddler holding a strawberry ice cream cone trips and falls, dropping his ice cream onto the floor. He begins crying loudly.
Svetlana looks at him with an expression of sympathy and pity.
Out of sheer instinct, she springs up from her grimy seat and picks up the crying kid, rocking him up and down and gently cooing, "Shhh, shhh, it is OK. It is OK, malen'kiy (RU: little one)."
"Waaaaaaaaa!"
Svetlana continues cooing and trying her best to console the toddler. After a few moments, he stops crying. He clumsily wipes his eyes and looks up at Svetlana.
Svetlana smiles and wipes away the tears from his eyes, "It is OK, it is OK."
His big brown toddler eyes stare at the vampire holding him for a few moments. He blinks and reaches for her cold face, curiously stroking her pale cheeks with his tiny fingers.
She continues holding him and whispering words of comfort to him.
A few seconds later, his mom arrives. The mother frantically takes him from Svetlana, thanking her profusely for comforting him.
Svetlana bows her head slightly, "Is no issue."
Sarah notices all of this, "That's...so..."
Bob interjects, "Odd? Do kids react differently to vampires, assuming she even is one?"
"Yeah. What the heck is up with that?"
"Dunno. Could be an aura thing or whatever."
"Maybe. So, are we gonna do anything or just sit here and watch this whole thing unfold like some stupid movie?"
Bob tells her, "We're waiting for them to leave, so we can follow 'em."
Sarah absentmindedly licks the last few bits of French Vanilla from her spoon. She leans back and says, "Man, that was some crazy shit."
"Hmm, if she is a vampire, then she has no bloody business touching that child."
"Yeah, totally. What a creepy-ass vampire, sheesh. And her skin is SO pale. Are they sick or something?"
Bob grimly declares, "They ARE sick, and we're the cure. The Reckoning is coming, Star. After Dubai, we're bringing this show to Al-Kushraf."
Sarah, a bit surprised by Bob's sudden and unexpected seriousness, replies, "Wow, I--I didn't expect you to take this so seriously, heh."
"C'mon, let's go. They're already on the move. We follow those 2, but we keep our distance, OK?"
"Sure."
A food court employee cleans up the mess and the ice cream from the floor, his eyes narrowed, and a frown tugged at his lips. The employee throws the tissues in the bin and goes on his way.
As John and Svetlana leave the food court, Sarah and Bob follow them, maintaining a safe distance and being as inconspicuous as possible.
John says, "OK, 3rd floor, central server room. Let's go and take a look at what these plans are. Then, we destroy all the data and get the hell outta here."
Svetlana nods and they both make their way to the escalators. As they descend, Sarah and Bob walk slower, keeping a safe distance from them.
John regards his Childe, "You handled that kid pretty well back there."
"Da. It is what I do- babysitting. It is good for the mind, it makes me feel...human."
"Hmm. Well, it's a good way to stay in touch with your Humanity. Do any of the parents or guardians who employ you ever get...suspicious?"
"Spasibo (RU: Thanks). No, they just require someone to watch their child for few hours."
"Huh."
Svetlana and John step off the escalator, the 2 Hunters right behind them.
The 2 Banu Haqim make their way to the escalator down to the 3rd floor. As expected, the place is still loud and crowded.
As they step off the escalator, John tells his Childe, "You're doing fine, Svetlana. Just stay focused and stick close to me."
"Da. Always."
John looks around a few times. Then, he swipes Abdullah's keycard over the door panel, his eyes widening slightly, "Huh." The red door beeps and opens.
He looks around before slipping through the door, "Svetlana, let's go!"
She is right behind him.
Sarah softly gasps when she sees the 2 vampires disappear behind a red door. The 2 Imbued exchange a quick glance.
Sarah nervously gulps and tells Bob, "They...They just went into a restricted area, Reacher!"
"I know. C'mon, then! Let's get after them!"
He quickly darts forward, not caring about how much attention he's drawing, and swipes his keycard. The door opens, and the duo step in.
It's a long and cool corridor, cooler than the rest of the mall due to the server machines. The servers themselves are hidden behind closed doors that lead to another area.
The floors are pristine, and the lights overhead are a bit too bright, even for ordinary mortals.
The 2 vampires walk down the long and cold corridor, past the numerous closed doors.
All the labels on the doors are in a mix of Arabic and English.
John finds the central server room and swipes Abdullah's keycard. It beeps in error.
John grunts, "Damnit!" He tries again and again, but nothing works.
Svetlana gets a bit agitated, "Oh, no. Maybe it requires another keycard?"
"Hmm," John thinks for a moment, then he looks around at the doors in the corridor, "Maybe one of those rooms might have what we need."
He tries swiping the keycard again, but the red door refuses to budge. He sighs and curses under his breath.
John takes a deep breath, and then looks up at Svetlana, "OK, let's start searching through these rooms, OK?"
"Da."
Sarah and Bob aren't too far behind. They tiptoe and sneak around like a couple of cartoon ninjas, trying their hardest not to get caught.
Sarah's a little freaked out by all the noise she and her fellow Hunter are making.
Sarah looks back at Bob, who's right behind her, and whispers, "Reacher, you sure they're not gonna notice...us?"
Bob shakes his head, "Nah, this mall has a reputation for lax and negligent security."
He presses his finger against his lips and urges Sarah to remain silent.
Bob peers into a room. He looks up, looks down, and sees a room labeled: "Breakroom 7".
The door is slightly ajar and noise can be heard inside.
Bob narrows his eyes and whispers to Sarah, "I've found a room, let's see what they're up to, OK?"
He slowly opens the door, inch by inch. Sarah tightly grips his hand and looks up at him, her eyes wide and nervous.
Bob glowers at her and silently mouths, "What?"
Sarah sheepishly pulls out a wooden stake from her large purse and hands it to Bob.
Bob's expression hardens, the realization of what he's about to do dawning on him.
He takes the stake from her. It's a simple wooden stake, a couple of feet in length. It's smooth, and the tip is sharpened to a point.
Sarah gets her own stake ready and firmly nods at Bob, urging him to go for it.
Bob holds his breath and quickly pushes the door open.
Inside, John and Svetlana are searching for a keycard to open the door to the central server room.
Svetlana exclaims when she finds a blue keycard hanging on the wall, "John, look!" She quickly grabs it and runs back to the door.
But, she is immediately stopped in her tracks by 2 amateur Hunters holding wooden stakes.
Bob growls at her, "STAY RIGHT THERE, YOU BLOODY VAMPIRE! DON'T MOVE!"
Svetlana, taken aback by the sudden appearance of the Hunters, slowly steps back, her hands raised in near surrender.
Her lips quiver and her eyes dart around.
John, who had been searching for something on the other side of the room, stops what he's doing and looks up.
His face twists into a grimace when he sees the 2 Hunters threatening his Childe.
"HEY! Get away from her!"
Sarah turns her attention to John and raises her stake, making an angry face, "STOP! Don't move, or else!"
Bob takes a step towards Svetlana and growls at her, "I'll put this right through your chest, you slag."
Svetlana gulps and takes a few steps back, "Pl--Please do not hurt us, you do not--"
Bob grits his teeth and tightens his grip on the stake, "Shut up, slag! You're not biting me kids or anyone else's. Your reign of terror ends tonight."
John gets up and uses his Celerity Discipline to dash over to his Childe. Sarah only sees a blur as John shifts positions in the blink of an eye.
Sarah looks at Bob, who returns her gaze and shrugs, "I--I dunno, I couldn't see it either."
Svetlana yells, "John!"
John readies his claws and fangs, "You jokers want a fight, huh? Huh?!"
Sarah's jaw drops open when she sees John's pointy teeth and claws, "Holy shit! I--I thought they were just stories, but--"
John continues, "C'mon!"
Svetlana gulps and activates her Obfuscate Discipline. She slowly starts to erase herself from the minds of those 2 jumped-up amateur Hunters.
Bob gasps, "WHAT?! Wh--where did that slag go?!"
He grits his teeth and charges towards John, the stake firmly grasped in his hand. Sarah is right behind him.
The 2 Hunters, fueled by adrenaline and the prospect of stopping the bloodsucking vampires from feeding on people, are not backing down.
John deftly dodges to the side, causing Bob to ram his stake into a wall and fall to the ground. Bob doesn't hesitate to jump onto him, pinning him to the floor.
John struggles and tries to get up, but Bob sits on his chest, firmly holding him down.
The stake is just out of his reach, so he urgently calls out, "STAR!"
Sarah, in a bewildered state, looks around for Svetlana, "W--What?"
She looks back at Bob, "What's happening, dude?! Where is she--"
Bob, with a wild look in his eyes, yells, "Gimme the fucking stake! NOW!"
Sarah tosses her wooden implement over to Bob. John struggles and struggles to no avail.
Bob catches the stake, looks at the ceiling, and whispers a silent prayer. Then, he plunges the stake right into John's chest.
John gasps as a feeling of total paralysis washes over his body. His face twists into a grimace and he grits his teeth.
He looks at Bob, who's smiling with a bit of relief and triumph. Then, his eyes roll back and he goes still.
Svetlana, who is completely Obfuscated, gasps and readies her claws. She viciously swipes at Sarah, who yelps and steps back.
Sarah curses and backs off, hearing nothing but Svetlana's growls. Sarah looks around the room and, realizing that Svetlana is nowhere to be found, asks, "W--Where is she, man?!"
Bob lets go of John and stumbles backwards, leaving him on the floor, still and silent.
He grabs the wooden stake and angrily smiles, "Reveal yourself, love, and we'll make it quick and easy. You've had a long enough life, it's time for a change."
Svetlana snarls and slashes at Sarah once again, her nails drawing blood from Sarah's arm. The Hunter yelps and stumbles back.
Bob stares around in disbelief and starts randomly jabbing his wooden stake into the air, hoping to hit something.
Sarah does the same thing but with her arms. She continues trying to flush out the vampire, yelling, "Your reign of terror is over!"
Svetlana is too afraid to go over to her Sire and pull out that damn piece of wood, but she has a sinking feeling that she alone stands no chance against these 2, especially in such a small room.
The Banu Haqim Neonate anxiously waits for the perfect moment.
Bob furiously yells, "WHERE THE BLOODY HELL ARE YOU, SLAG?!"
Svetlana can't keep up her Obfuscate forever, since it's quite the drain on her Vitae. So, she partially reveals herself and charges at Bob.
Bob can't even react in time to dodge her, as she knocks the stake out of his hand.
The wood clatters onto the floor.
The vampire pushes Bob onto the floor, and raises her clawed hands, ready to strike him.
Sarah jumps on top of Svetlana's back, trying to save her partner from getting slashed to ribbons.
"Get off, Star! That slag's gonna kill us all!"
Svetlana doesn't react. She slashes at Bob's face, but he turns his head to the side just in time, causing her to strike the floor and scratch it instead.
Bob quickly pushes Svetlana off him. The vampire has a wild look in her eyes that is intensifying.
Bob heaves, "Blimey, you--you're--"
Sarah yells and attempts to jab that stake into Svetlana's back, but the vampire sees the stake coming from the corner of her eye and dodges it.
Svetlana is no longer an amorphous blur. She punches Sarah hard in the face and knocks her down to the floor, where she lays still and unconscious.
Svetlana turns her attention to Bob and snarls at him, angry and pissed.
He is not deterred. He ducks down and grabs the stake that's on the floor. He twirls it around a few times, in an attempt to threaten Svetlana.
He angrily yells at her, "You slag, you're gonna pay for what you've done!"
He charges at her, not letting up in his attempt to stab her.
Bob's stake is inches from Svetlana's chest, held back by the latter's preternatural grip over the former's burly and meaty arms.
Svetlana yells and shoves him back. The 2 stagger backwards and crash into a few nearby tables, spilling their contents everywhere.
Some coffee cups, small plates, and various other implements clatter all over the floor.
Svetlana picks up a small plastic plate and tosses it at Bob, hitting him in the stomach.
She runs over and kicks his shins, causing him to double over.
Bob, with a scowl, tackles Svetlana and pins her down, his fists ready to pummel her.
Svetlana bares her fangs and swipes her claws at Bob. They score a direct hit, leaving him with bloody gashes on his face.
Bob howls in pain and falls on his back. Svetlana pins him down and gives him a hard punch to the face, bloodying his nose.
Svetlana yells and curses at him in both Russian and Ukrainian.
Once Bob is unconscious, Svetlana quickly pulls the stake out of John's chest.
It makes a really gross squelching and sucking noise as it's extracted from his body, leaving a gaping hole in his chest.
John gasps and groans, "Wha--What's--oh, shit!"
Svetlana grimaces and discards the bloodied wooden object to the floor.
She holds her Sire's shoulders and looks at him with concern.
The gaping hole in John's chest begins to slowly mend itself, the dead skin turning a dark shade of purple as it does so.
John grimaces, his eyes screwed shut and his jaw tight. He exhales and sighs as his wounds begin closing up.
John's eyes flutter open and he asks, "What happened?"
Svetlana gestures to the 2 unconscious amateurs sprawled on the floor.
John tightly shuts his eyes again and grits his teeth. He slowly stands up, his face twisting in pain.
Svetlana has a look of concern, "John, how did they find us? Are they--"
John holds his hand up, "Go...get Abdullah now. We're gonna need his--his help."
"For what?"
John grimly tells her, "We have to get rid of them, Svetlana. They've seen too much; they know what we look like...they know what we are."
Svetlana gasps and looks at the 2 Hunters on the floor, a pang of guilt shooting through her undead heart.
She nods and turns towards the breakroom door.
John lets out a weak groan and leans on a nearby table. He grimaces and closes his eyes as the pain in his chest continues to subside.
Svetlana frantically and briskly walks to go and fetch Abdullah. A few moments later, she brings the slightly-perturbed Abdullah back to the room.
Svetlana and Abdullah find John standing upright and clutching his chest, where the gaping hole has now been mended.
He takes a deep breath and exhales, the tension leaving his body.
Sarah and Bob are still lying on the floor, fully unconscious.
John looks at Abdullah, "We--We need your help."
Abdullah furrows his brow, "I see."
Svetlana shakily asks, "Who are they? Second Inquisition? But we have not encountered them in months!"
Abdullah checks their IDs and takes a few moments to respond to Svetlana's query. He concludes, "No, they are not with the Zionists."
John asks, "Amateurs, then?"
Abdullah nods, "It would appear so."
Svetlana's voice is a bit shaky, "I--I have never faced such brazen attack from regular people, they should not have been able to defeat my Sire."
Abdullah looks at John and remarks, "What's the matter, habibi? Did you forget your martial arts...thing? What was it called again?"
John forces a weak smile, "Kenpo. Yeah, I--I'm a bit rusty, I guess."
Svetlana whispers to Abdullah, "We must dispose of them, Abdullah. They know what we are. I...I cannot be responsible for a Masquerade breach."
John nods, "Hmmm. I say we snap their necks and leave them here."
Abdullah shakes his head, "No. That will only incur the attention of the authorities. We cannot risk that, not at a time like this. We have to do something else."
Svetlana asks, "Like what?"
Abdullah ponders, "Hmmm, let me think..."
John impatiently tells him, "We don't have much time, Abdullah."
Abdullah sharply exhales, a look of resolution on his face, "OK. I know what must be done."
John frowns, "What do you mean by that?"
Abdullah calmly answers, "I will use my Blood Sorcery Discipline to make them...go away. It shall be quick and painless."
John sharply exhales, "Abdullah, no. We can't do that. It's--"
Abdullah cuts him off, "What other choice do we have, habibi? If we do as you suggested, the police will open an investigation and the SI will start looking around here as well."
His tone is firm and final, "No. We must do this now, there is no other way. Making their deaths look like natural causes should be possible."
John shakily sighs, "Are you sure about this, Abdullah?"
Abdullah nods back, "Yes, habibi. My command over the Blood is great. Now, stand back."
The 2 Assamites back away a few feet as Abdullah takes a few moments to ready his powers.
Abdullah closes his eyes and meditates, his hands slowly rising up, palms outwards.
He readies his claws and slices his wrist. His crimson Vitae begins flowing out and drops onto the floor.
Abdullah slowly raises his hand over the 2 Hunters' faces and chants in Arabic.
Svetlana looks around with concern.
Abdullah firmly commands, "Open their mouths. I do not want to waste too much of my Vitae."
Svetlana grabs Sarah and pries her mouth open. John grunts and forces Bob's mouth open.
Abdullah places his hand over their mouths. He closes his eyes and focuses his powers, trying his best to manipulate it as best he can.
The Blood of the Banu Haqim starts flowing into their open mouths.
Abdullah mutters a few more words of Arabic and withdraws his hand, the cut on it slowly beginning to seal and mend itself.
The vampire's blood flows down their mouths, into their throats, and into their stomachs.
John and Svetlana step back. Abdullah sits back, exhaling.
Bob starts to spasm, his body jerking a few times.
Svetlana watches with concern, "Do you feel...well, Abdullah?"
The Banu Haqim Blood Sorcerer stretches his hands and legs, then gets up, "Yes, I feel fine."
Sarah starts to shake uncontrollably, her legs kicking and her arms spasming. Her mouth is slightly open.
She begins foaming at the mouth.
Sarah's body shakes and seizes, her limbs writhing uncontrollably. Bob twitches, shakes, and convulses a few more times before going still.
The 2 amateur Hunters are no more, all that remains are 2 dead bodies sprawled out on the floor of this mall's breakroom.
Svetlana looks completely shocked by this. John clutches his chest and looks away.
Abdullah pulls out a handkerchief and starts wiping the floor clean of the blood that has flowed from his wrist, "They have gone to their final resting place, habibi."
He looks at his fellow Assamites and asks, "Is there anything else you need?"
John replies, "No. You--you've been more than helpful, Abdullah. Thank you, really."
Abdullah reminds John, "We are in this together, my friend. If one falls, then all will surely fall as well."
John nods. Svetlana does not.
Abdullah suggests, "Why don't you finish what you came here to do? You can return my keycard tomorrow night. I have no immediate need for it."
John smiles weakly, "Thank you. That's really thoughtful."
Abdullah softly laughs, "You should move quick, habibi, before someone else arrives. I do not want a 3rd corpse on my conscience."
Svetlana hastily grabs the blue keycard and makes her way to the central server room. She swipes the keycard over the door and steps inside, John right behind her.
The room inside is covered in dim white light and is exceedingly cold, almost so much so, that you need a couple of layers of clothing just to be able to step foot inside. The room is a veritable ice box.
There's a constant hum coming from the various machines and the ventilation ducts that line the walls.
The numerous server racks are stacked high, the orange, yellow, and green lights on them blinking in an almost hypnotic rhythm.
Svetlana tightly hugs herself, "Brrrrr, very...cold."
John clenches his jaw and takes a deep breath, "OK. Let's find the plans for those heartbeat sensors." He looks around the room, "This is quite a maze."
Svetlana points at a large screen, "Maybe we can search for it."
"Hmm."
John's fingers glide across the white keyboard. He types in a few keywords and presses enter. The search returns with nothing. So, he tries again. And again. But, still, nothing.
John grits his teeth and slams the desk, "Fuck! OK, wait, let me try something else." He looks back at the screen and types in "security measures", hoping to get a different result.
And, thankfully, it works this time.
The computer displays the various plans and schematics, the files are all messy in their labeling, but the demonstrations are pretty clear.
It's a simple enough process: install the heartbeat sensor, the sensor relays the info to a central server, which then computes the results, and the data is then sent to...
Oh, shit.
John's expression darkens when he notices who the information is sent to: a private Israeli surveillance firm. The plans don't mention why, or even who, ordered it.
All the data is supposed to be sent directly to an Israeli firm. This is bad. Really, really bad.
Svetlana whispers, "What?"
John explains, "Oh, shit...this is--this is--"
Svetlana frowns, "What is it, John?"
John gulps, "It's a SI operation. Oh, god, what have we gotten ourselves into, Svetlana?" His tone is filled with dread. His voice cracks a little.
Svetlana whispers, "No...no, no, no. It--It cannot be!" She takes a few moments to compose herself, her eyes wide.
John points to the screen, "It's all here. None of the data goes to the Emirati authorities, everything's routed straight to Israel. Those damn maniacs..."
"W--What are we going to do now, John?" Svetlana's tone is a bit frantic. Her mind is racing.
"I dunno. If we erase everything, the Israelis are gonna know that something's up."
"What other choice do we have, John? We have to, if this project goes through, no Kindred will be able to set foot in mall again."
John nods and adds, "Worse, these assholes might expand it to other venues. Soon, we likely won't even be able to enter our own goddamn Havens!"
Svetlana's lips tremble, she's afraid and anxious.
John sighs and looks at the plans, "There's...there's--if we wipe this data, the SI is gonna know that something is up. W--We have to be ready for..."
Svetlana completes her Sire's thoughts, "Consequences. Da, we have to be ready." She takes a deep breath and sighs, her shoulders slumped.
Svetlana asks her Sire, "What do we do, John?" She is a little unsure, her voice quivering.
John licks his lips and begins to delete everything en masse, even things not directly pertaining to the heartbeat sensor project.
All the plans and files related to the project are deleted, permanently. Everything. All the data. Everything's gone. Erased.
John firmly nods, "Good, I just hope this...sets them back a few years, at least."
Svetlana opines, "We would be lucky to even get few months."
John bitterly chuckles, "Yeah, true, these fucking Israelis...they're good at the wrong kinds of things." He looks around and says, "I guess that's all, we're done here."
"Da, I am glad that it is over," Svetlana nods and heaves a sigh of relief, her teeth and fists clenched, "Let us leave."
They turn around and walk towards the door. They leave the central server room, the door closing shut behind them.
The room is dark and quiet once more, except for the occasional humming of the machines and the ventilation.
They go to the breakroom and look at the 2 dead Hunters on the floor.
Svetlana asks, "Should we move bodies?"
John shakes his head, "No. It has to look like natural causes. Or, at the very least, the authorities have to think so. Otherwise, things are gonna get messy and then all hell's gonna break loose."
Svetlana nods and leaves the room, John right behind her. She closes the door.
For her part, Svetlana is relieved to be out of that bitterly-cold server room, she rubs her arms and shudders, "Ahh, that feels so much better."
"Hmm. Well, at least that's over and done with."
"Da. What are we doing next, John?"
"Elysium. We have to give Seth a full report of what we've learned here tonight."
"Do you think he will do anything about it?"
"Well, he HAS to. I know the setup in this city is weird, but he's the closest we got to an authority figure in a position to stop this- the one with the power and resources to do something."
Svetlana sighs, "I hope he can."
"Hmm, me too, Svetlana. Me too."
The 2 vampires make their way out of the still-crowded mall and down into the basement.
John heads over to his dinky, perfectly serviceable car and gets inside. Svetlana gets in on the passenger side.
She closes the door and sighs. The interior of the car is stuffy and a bit hot, the AC is a bit broken.
Svetlana remarks, "Der'mo! (RU: Shit!) It is so...stuffy in here, John. When was last time you cleaned car?"
John smirks and starts the car up, "Not since I bought it a few weeks ago. There's...been a lot on my mind, Svetlana."
Svetlana pensively nods, "Da. There has been."
John puts his foot on the pedal, "OK! Next stop- Elysium."
His Childe puts her seatbelt on and rolls the window down, "It is a bit warm tonight."
"Yeah."
The car's AC starts blasting some hot air. John drives the vehicle out of the parking space and onto the road. He merges with the traffic and turns left, driving further away from the mall.
At the Grand Alhambra...
Yep, still big and busy, as always. People flock in and out of this big hotel, and a steady stream of cars arrive and depart the premises, their headlights illuminating the dark streets.
John parks his car nearby and slams the door shut, it creaks and shudders.
He looks at the front of the building, it's still a magnificent sight, and it never gets old.
(Unless you've been here long enough for it to get old).
Svetlana walks beside him, looking up at the large edifice and its many lit windows.
The 2 Assamites spot a familiar woman lurking around the lobby area, looking extremely twitchy and jumpy. She's biting her nails, a permanent scowl on her face.
She's an East Asian woman who looks to be in her 30s. Her black hair is straight and styled into an uneven bob.
Her attire is very bit out of place: a bulky leather jacket, tight black jeans, and a pair of long boots. She has a couple of earrings and a small pendant hanging from her neck.
That would be none other than Ms. Kawasaki- a Banu Haqim like John and Svetlana.
But she is not of the Blade, no, she is now a disgraced outcast from the elusive Web of Knives, a cabal of Banu Haqim who consider themselves to be the best in assassinations and things of that nature.
A former member of the Web of Knives, now shunned and scorned by her own Clan, Ms. Kawasaki is now a Banu Haqim living (more or less) under the protection of Vizier Mohammed.
The Vizier considers her his protégé, of sorts. Ms. Kawasaki is fine with being under his wing, as she still believes that her former associates are still out there, looking for her.
And they're most certainly not looking to chat or catch up.
After years and years of rigorous training, first as a Ghoul, then as a Kindred, she failed her mission.
It was a simple task given to her in the 2000s- destroy a Tremere Elder by the name of Eleanor Pentham.
This particular Tremere Elder had done her fair share of messed up things: facilitated ritualistic Diableries, destroyed rogue covens, and even executed those who didn't live up to her Clan's high (and oft-times) unfairly arbitrary standards.
Not a pretty list, by any stretch of the imagination.
The Banu Haqim, being the Clan that they are, don't take kindly to such actions and were eager to punish this Elder Usurper.
This was supposed to be Ms. Kawasaki's 1st ever job, after years and years of grueling training, both as a mortal and as a vampire.
But she failed. The Tremere Elder had managed to defend herself against her attacker. She wounded Ms. Kawasaki and managed to escape. Her whereabouts, since then, haven't been seen or heard of.
And so, the Web of Knives were furious. Ms. Kawasaki had no chance to redeem or explain herself; that's not how the Web of Knives operate.
So, they have declared her a pariah, a failure, and a disgrace. A Blood Hunt was called, but she managed to stow herself away on a flight headed for the UAE.
And, she's been here ever since.
John and Svetlana approach her.
John looks at her from head to toe, "Ms. K? Staying out of trouble, I hope?"
Ms. Kawasaki sneers at him, "Fuck off."
Svetlana interjects, "We are being polite. We are of same Clan, same Blood, why are you so...mean?"
Ms. Kawasaki scoffs, "You have no idea what you're talking about, bitch. And you..."
She points her finger at John, "You think you're so tough, huh? Well, let me tell you something, jackass- the Blade ain't shit. You're nothing but untrained and undisciplined."
She grunts, "You're all fucking wimps. You don't even know how to properly kill people, unlike us."
Svetlana retorts, "The Blade has Judged many, Ms. Kawasaki. Our cause--"
"Oh, fuck your cause," Ms. Kawasaki rolls her eyes, "I've had enough of all this Palestine nonsense you Blade fanatics keep yapping on about."
John glowers at her and is almost ready to strike her, "How dare you?!"
Ms. Kawasaki laughs at him, "Go on, I fucking dare you, little man!"
She takes a step forward, "You should've scurried off to Abu Dhabi or somewhere else instead of coming here."
Svetlana clenches her fists and takes a few steps forward.
Ms. Kawasaki derisively shakes her head, "Tell your Childe to back off. I've got my tantō on me, handy, at ALL times."
John cautions, "You're not dumb enough to start a fight in the hotel lobby."
Ms. Kawasaki chuckles, "Yeah, true. But, this ain't the last of me. The Banu Haqim here got a good thing going, we don't need your self-righteous Blade nonsense screwing things up here."
She scowls and grits her teeth, "Now get lost! Go bother some other assholes."
Ms. Kawasaki walks off in the direction of the bar.
John mutters under his breath, "Bitch."
Svetlana concurs, "Da. Bitch. Or, as we say in Russian- suka."
John softly giggles, "You need to teach me some of these words sometime, Svetlana. Now, c'mon, let's go and meet Seth and decide how we're gonna proceed."
"Da!" Svetlana firmly nods, a hint of a smile on her face.
The 2 Banu Haqim make their way into the elevator and prepare for the long way up to the 140th floor.
After switching elevators and passing by a couple of security cameras, the 2 Kindred arrive in the lavish and plush 140th floor Elysium of the Grand Alhambra Hotel.
Dimly lit, as always. The goon from last time is here.
Once again, he holds his hand out and gestures to the nearby reception counter, "Weapons. Surrender them."
John says, "We're not armed. We're here to see Seth. He's expecting us."
Svetlana nods along, "Da."
The goon shakes his head, "The High Priest is currently occupied. Please wait over there," he points to a small sitting area to the right of the elevators.
"Oh, for fuck's sake...OK," John complies. Svetlana, in turn, follows suit.
John mumbles, "It's been a fucking long night...and getting staked was not how I thought it was gonna play out."
He grumbles and shakes his head.
Svetlana shrugs, "We...live another night, da?"
"Hmmm, I guess."
After about 30 minutes, the doors to the lounge fling open, and out walks none other than Vizier Mohammed.
The Assamite Primogen has an unreadable expression on his face as he steps forward.
John and Svetlana watch him approach them.
Vizier Mohammed shakes his head and reluctantly greets the duo, "As-salamu alaykum, my friends. What are you doing here tonight?"
John dryly answers, "Not your concern, Vizier. We're here to see Seth."
"I...see."
Svetlana speaks her mind, "Your Ms. Kawasaki is vile person. How she is even Banu Haqim is...unexplainable."
The Assamite Primogen shakes his head, "I am sorry to hear that, Svetlana. But, Ms. Kawasaki's behavior is of her own doing. I cannot and will not interfere with how my charges choose to act."
John scoffs, "Of course you wouldn't, you spine--"
Seth bursts into the conversation, "John! Svetlana! I hope you 2 have something good for me!"
Seth's sudden arrival cuts the 2 vampires off from further derisive remarks about Vizier Mohammed's protégé down in the lobby area.
Mohammed glowers at the 2, "I shall take my leave, then."
He presses the elevator button and waits, chin held high.
Seth leads his guests inside, "Well? I hope you 2 have been able to do what I've asked?"
The elevator doors slide open and Vizier Mohammed walks inside.
John shakily nods, "Yeah. We--we ran into a bit of trouble."
Seth feigns surprise with a fake gasp, "Oh, my. I hope you're both OK?"
Svetlana replies, "It was 2 amateurs, we think. They were not SI or anything like that."
Seth nods, thoughtful and intrigued, "Oh, I see...so, how did you handle them?"
John answers, "A friend of ours, Abdullah, helped us do it. He has the Blood Sorcery Discipline. It was quick and should look like natural causes."
Svetlana continues, "The...plans have also been dealt with. Deleted from central computer room."
John continues, "But, that's not all."
Seth strokes the emeralds on his snake cane, "Oh?"
John states, "This is an SI operation, Seth. It wasn't something the Emirati authorities are working on, it's--"
Seth finishes John's thoughts, "Lemme guess, an Israeli operation? Oh, my. This is very, very concerning, indeed."
He shifts in his seat slightly, "I don't know how it was for you in Dubai, but we haven't had any major run-ins with the Second Inquisition in...years. At least, I personally haven't."
The Serpent adds, "Of course, this isn't something that is completely out of the blue, the SI just can't seem to leave us Kindred alone, huh."
Svetlana nods, "It seems like no matter where you go, the SI and others will always be there to haunt you."
Seth folds 1 leg over the other and begins to ponder, his index finger pressed against his cheek, "I've not dealt with this in a long time."
He turns his head and looks at John, "What are we gonna do about this, John, hmm?"
John is dumbfounded, "Wha--? You're the closest this city has to a legitimate authority figure, Seth. Shouldn't YOU have some plan or other in place to stop this?!"
Seth chuckles and shakes his head, "My 'authority' over this city is nonexistent, John. I have my duties as Typhon's High Priest that keep me occupied. The others...well, they're all quite busy with other things."
The Viper lowers his voice, "I've told you both before, we're loosely organized and somewhat independent here in Al-Kushraf."
Svetlana queries, "But you have Harpy, Elysium, Primogen Council, and all. So, you are still bound to Camarilla, no?"
Seth evasively answers, "Yes...and no. Those positions are just for show. None of the Kindred in this city care for them."
He pauses and takes a moment to think. "At least, most of them don't."
He leans forward and points his index finger at his guests, "You 2, however, are different."
Svetlana furrows her brows, "What do mean?"
Seth responds, "Your desire for...justice is admirable. I didn't want to say this the other night, but the Banu Haqim who were already here before you showed up have been...disorganized and inefficient. Most of them only care about maintaining their little empires."
What a smooth-tongued bastard.
John asks, "So what are you proposing, Seth?" His tone is inquisitive but firm.
Seth vaguely gestures, "I propose that it's time we took the fight to the Second Inquisition, John."
John's eyebrows shoot up, "Whoa, hey, even if we got ALL the Banu Haqim in this city involved, it wouldn't put a dent in their operations."
He leans back and shrugs, "The Israelis have been messing with us for years, now. And, they've been doing it quite well, too."
Svetlana concurs, "Da, they also monitor all the communications and such, I am sure."
Seth smirks, "Oh, but they are not infallible, my friends. This is why I believe that it's time we made our presence known."
There is sinister intent behind his words. He grins and stares at them both, his expression almost hungry.
He adds, "If we're smart, They'll never see it coming...they'll never know what hit 'em until it's too late."
Svetlana looks a bit unnerved by this, her eyes wide and her hands fidgety.
She looks to her Sire for guidance. She asks, "What do we do now, John? This...this is a lot to take in."
John nods and takes a deep breath, "Well...the thing is, I'm not sure we're ready for something like this, Seth. Going on the offensive when we've barely had the time to process what the SI did in Dubai is a mistake."
Seth retorts, "Oh, come now, John! It's not like you haven't dealt with the Second Inquisition before!"
He chuckles and leans forward, "I'm sure your time in this country has taught you something?"
John shakily nods, "I've dealt with them before. Svetlana hasn't. Yet."
Svetlana turns her gaze downward and remains silent.
Seth stares at her and puts on a faux-concerned look, "What's the problem?"
Svetlana looks up at the Setite, "I do not understand how things work in city. Without Prince or Sheriff, how do we stop this?"
Seth laughs, "There's a reason no one has claimed Praxis over this city till now; it's a long and complicated history here in Al-Kushraf."
He pauses to chuckle and stroke his cane, "I wouldn't want to bore either of you with the details." There's a condescending undertone in his voice.
Seth continues, "But, I digress. What matters most is that there's always been a power vacuum here in this city. Some Kindred, like the ones you've seen and met, have taken advantage of it and carved out their little empires."
John asks, "Like who?"
Seth answers, "Like the Nosferatu, for starters. They have quite a presence in the sewers of this lovely city, and they're not too keen on outsiders intruding."
Svetlana glares at the Serpent, "Why are you telling us all this? We are still newcomers to city, powerless to stop anything."
Seth replies, "Because, Svetlana, I believe that you 2 have a lot of potential. You're both driven. We need more Kindred like that in this city."
He really is trying to butter them up for whatever he's planning next, huh? That slithery bastard.
The 2 Assamites stare at him.
He chuckles and continues, "But, let's not get ahead of ourselves. You 2 did good tonight, and I'm thankful for that. Truly. None of us wanted to see this project come to fruition."
John shakily sighs, "What's your plan?" His tone is wary and suspicious.
Seth blinks a few times, "MY plan, huh? No, John, it's not my plan that matters. It's Typhon's plan. And I strongly believe that Typhon has great things in store for...all of us."
Svetlana raises her eyebrows, "Typhon? Who is that?"
Seth stands up, "I'd like to show you 2 something, if you don't mind? Do either of you have any urgent matters to attend to?"
John shakes his head. Svetlana does the same.
Seth claps his hands, "Excellent! Follow me, please."
He walks to the center of the room, cane held firmly in his hand. The 2 Assamites follow suit.
Seth strokes the emerald eyes of his snake cane and hardens his gaze.
He asks John and Svetlana to give him some space. They oblige and move a few paces back.
Seth's serpentine eyes light up and he tosses his cane onto the ground, the emeralds on its head glowing brightly. The cane rotates and spins, as if possessed.
A green aura surrounds the object. Seth's eyes are fixated on the emeralds adorning it.
This inanimate object slowly starts to turn into a living, hissing snake right in front of everyone's eyes, the emeralds shifting and changing color, until they turn into a pair of reptilian eyes.
The rest of the snake's body morphs and grows out, as if it were made of flesh, scales, and blood.
"Hissssssss," the snake coils, its sharp fangs bared. Its eyes glow green, while Seth's amber eyes turn into slits.
John and Svetlana watch in awe, their jaws wide open.
Seth kneels down and gently takes the large reptile into his arms, it nuzzles him affectionately.
"Mmm, good," he scratches the snake under its chin, "I've missed you, too, my dear friend."
He brings the hissing snake to Svetlana's face, she recoils back in fear and readies her claws and fangs.
Seth warmly smiles, "It's OK, Svetlana, it's OK. It doesn't bite, even if provoked. Go on, pet it." He holds the snake out to her.
Svetlana cautiously moves closer, her hand trembling as it approaches the snake. She gingerly pats it on the head.
John is visibly shocked by this. Out of curiosity, he comes closer and exclaims, "Holy shit! H--How did you do that?"
Seth proudly answers, "The Protean-Serpentis Discipline, my friend."
John remarks, "That's one helluva magic trick."
Seth shakes his head, "It's no mere trick, John. It's a demonstration of Typhon's power. As Kindred, we are no longer bound by mere physical restrictions."
He holds his palm out, the snake resting in it. Seth's expression turns pensive and distant.
John comments, "Wow. OK, that's...crazy. Almost like that uh...Bible story where the staff turned into a snake when it was thrown onto the ground."
Seth smiles at him, "Indeed, it is very similar, isn't it?"
Svetlana leans in closer to get a better look at the cane-turned-snake and notices a strange pattern on its scales. She squints and points, "Very...strange pattern, no?"
The Viper nods, "Yes. Very strange, indeed." There's a glint in his eye.
Seth places the snake on the floor and gently takes it by the tail. He tightens his grip and the snake slowly starts to revert back to its cane form.
"Hisssssss..." the reptilian eyes shift and turn back into emeralds. The scales retract and the body shrinks until it becomes nothing more than a fancy wooden cane again.
John's jaw hangs open, "Wow..."
Even Svetlana is genuinely impressed. She remarks, "This...this is powerful Discipline, Seth. I did not know Ministry could learn and do such things."
Seth responds, "Not all of us can learn the Protean-Serpentis Discipline, or are even capable of comprehending its...deeper significance and greater power."
His voice takes a dark turn, "Those who are, however, are truly blessed." He smiles at them both.
John asks, "So, your Sire taught you how to do that?"
Seth vaguely replies, "In a manner of speaking, yes. That...and many other things."
John simply says, "Cool."
Svetlana adds, "Da. Is very cool."
Seth sits back down on the couch and gestures for the 2 to do the same. They do so.
"Now, back to business. What are you 2 doing tomorrow night?"
Svetlana answers, "I have photoshoot...um...audition for fashion thing with Toreador Primogen. He think I might be...it."
Seth nods and smiles, "Excellent! Excellent! You definitely have the looks for it."
He turns his attention to John, "And you, John?"
John replies, "Oh, well, I'll probably go back to work."
Seth inquires, "And what do you do for an Unliving, John?"
John says, "I help around at a local dojo that teaches Kenpo. It's basically a branch of the same dojo back at Dubai. The money's OK and it helps keep me busy."
Seth nods, "That's a good idea. You never know when you need to defend yourself against those who would see you destroyed."
Svetlana slowly nods, "Da."
Seth turns his attention to her, "And what do you do for an Unliving? I'm sure it's just as exciting as what your Sire does, hmm?"
Svetlana shrugs, "I am babysitter. Many parents and working...professionals in city require someone to watch their child for few hours."
Seth's smile falters a little. He coughs and says, "I see. Well, I suppose there's better use of your talents."
Svetlana retorts, "Nyet. I like my job. It helps me to keep touch with my Humanity. These children...they need nurturing and care. It is very important to them a--and to me."
The Setite slowly nods and forces a weak smile, "Yes, I...suppose they do. Truth is, we all need nurturing and care. Wouldn't you agree, John?"
John snickers, "I'm not 5, but yeah, I guess."
Seth awaits Svetlana's response.
Svetlana looks at him and says, "Da. Everyone needs nurturing and care. Some just more than others."
Seth strokes his chin and ponders, "Yes, yes...some just more than others." He really drags on his s's, almost hissing like a snake.
"So," Seth turns his attention to Svetlana, "this Toreador Primogen? Are you looking forward to it?"
"Da. I am excited to see if there are opportunities. Money situation is little tough right now."
John interjects, "Yeah, same here. We're just scraping by in a city that we're not yet wholly familiar with."
Seth clicks his tongue, "Ah, it's just like Dubai in every way. If you survived that, you should be fine here in Al-Kushraf. Trust me, it's not nearly as bad as it seems."
(Easy for a guy who owns 2 Havens to say).
Svetlana asks, "Are you sure about this? It has only been few weeks since we arrived. Not much has happened...why...rock boat?"
A smirk dances on the Viper's lips, "I'm sure things will get better, Svetlana, if you have faith. Besides, it's not like you 2 have anywhere else to go, do you?"
"Nyet. The Tremere Prince of Abu Dhabi made clear he does not want any Banu Haqim in his Domain."
Seth raises his chin, "A shame. For a Usurper, Prince Helmut Strauss can be quite unreasonable at times. But, I strongly believe that you were brought here for a plan and a purpose."
John raises an eyebrow, "And what would that be? What 'plan' and 'purpose' was there behind the SI raiding Dubai and wiping the Gangrel out?"
Seth chuckles, "I believe that the answer will soon become apparent to you."
Svetlana asks, "What does that mean?"
Seth responds, "It's not for us to question our destinies. Yes, what happened to Prince Angela and the Outlanders was truly tragic and regrettable. But, there are forces at play that you and I cannot control, let alone understand."
"Forces? Like what?" Svetlana asks.
Seth continues, "Again, there are mysteries that are best left unsolved. The answers will come to you in time. Or, they might not."
He stands up and takes a few steps towards the balcony.
"But, I believe that everything, no matter how small or inconsequential, has a plan and a purpose behind it, and there is a higher power at work."
John is skeptical, "What 'higher power' do you speak of, Seth?"
Seth smoothly answers, "We Setites call it Typhon. Many people in this city call it Allah, some others call it Yahweh or Elohim or Buddha or Kali or whatever other names they have. It doesn't really matter."
He looks out the window at the moonlit skyline, "There is a greater purpose for you 2 here. The question remains--"
He turns around and looks them straight in the eye, "--do you have the faith to believe that?"
Svetlana stares at the Serpent, "Faith is...very subjective thing, no?"
Seth nods, "Yes. Yes, indeed it is, Svetlana. Everything is quite subjective, isn't it? But, faith, at its essence, is knowing that there is a higher power at work in it."
The Setite shrugs, "I digress. Anyway, I will keep you both in my prayers tonight."
John rolls his eyes, not really the type to believe in all this obscurantist mumbo-jumbo. Svetlana feels a small headache coming on.
Seth eyes her with a look of suspicion, "Are you alright, Svetlana?"
"Da, da. I am fine. It has been...long night."
Seth paces back and forth before saying, "Hmm, I'm sure it has been."
John speaks up, "Well, if that's all, then--"
The lounge doors fling open and in walks Edwin.
Seth's Ghoul appears to be holding a small bag. He sets it down on the nearby coffee table and turns around to face his master.
Seth smiles at him, "Thank you, Edwin. Were there any issues?"
Edwin shakes his head, "No, sir."
Seth cracks a warm but sly smile, "You may leave us, now. I'll speak with you later."
The Ghoul nods and departs, leaving the 3 Kindred alone.
Seth glances at John and Svetlana, "It's been a long night, indeed. Would you...indulge me for a few more minutes?"
John rolls a shoulder and sighs, "Hmm, sure, what's up?"
Seth goes over to the coffee table and smiles a smile of satisfaction when he sees what's inside.
He nods to himself and tells the duo, "If you're interested, I might have some work for the 2 of you--or well, at least John here. Svetlana has her own endeavors to pursue tomorrow night."
He turns his attention to John, "What do you say, John? Interested? Or, is it not up to your standards?" His tone is a mix of arrogance and sarcasm.
John responds, "Depends. Are you gonna have me risk my neck again?"
Seth answers, "I would hope not. This...is more of an investigation."
John folds his arms, "Oh? Into what?"
Seth chuckles, "Not what, but who."
Svetlana chimes in, "Who is it?"
Seth equably answers, "The Caitiff racecar driver known only as N0S4A2."
John dryly queries, "What do you want me to find out about 'em? From what I understand, nobody knows who they are. They're practically a mystery." He sits back down on the couch.
Seth responds, "Yes, true. However, they're quite the curious case. I'm simply interested in uncovering their identity, if possible."
John observes, "As a Caitiff, they've probably got a good reason for protecting their identity. Maybe there's another reason why they've never been found out?"
Seth shrugs, "It is likely that there is, indeed."
He clasps his hands together and continues, "So, John, what do you think? There's a race tomorrow night. N0S4A2 should be there."
John plainly shrugs, "Ah, what the hell, sure. I'll check it out, no guarantees, though. I'll see what I can do." He sounds quite reluctant.
Seth smiles and says, "Thank you, John. I truly appreciate it. And, if you have any success, I'll make it worth your while. Actually--"
Seth gets up and goes over to that bag on the table, "--I have something for you and your Childe."
Svetlana cranes her neck, "What is it?"
Seth returns with 2 new boxes that seem to have phones in them. Not just any phones, iPhones- the latest and greatest models, apparently.
Seth explains, "I've taken the liberty of buying these for both of you."
He holds one out to her, "Here, take it. There's a new Apple store on uh...Sufi Street. I had Edwin go there this evening and get these."
Svetlana stares at the box in her hands, jaw nearly hitting the floor. She's speechless.
Seth hands a box to her Sire and adds, "Of course, he had to turn both on just once to check that everything works. You'll have to get your own SIM cards."
John is dumbfounded. He stammers, "Whoa, wow...uh...thanks, I guess? You really shouldn't have, Seth."
Seth playfully shrugs, "It was no issue, John, really. You both needed phones after leaving yours behind in Dubai, so I figured I should do something about it."
Svetlana profusely thanks the Viper, head bowing low and hands wriggling as she tries to find the right words.
Seth dismisses her gratitude, "Please, there's no need for such effusive gratitude, Svetlana. You did well tonight."
John interjects, "Too well, maybe. Now, the SI is gonna know that something is up and will start to watch us even harder. They may even move into action."
Seth chuckles, "Oh, John, maybe that's...what we need, hmm?"
John tightens his grip on the phone box, "What do you mean by that? You really wanna fuck with the SI? These SI, they're not like the ones back in the States, Seth. They're Israelis, they're ruthless. I don't wanna get into their crosshairs."
Seth smirks, "Well, it's true, the ones here tend to be more aggressive. But, if push comes to shove, then we will have to fight them, John."
Svetlana skeptically asks, "'We'?"
Seth vaguely gestures, "Well, the Ministry stands ready to support you. I've seen the weapons you 2 carry, any Inquisitor who'd dare lay a finger on you would be in for quite a nasty surprise, heh."
Svetlana sighs, "We are still trying to process what happened in Dubai. We do not want to fight so soon. It was...traumatizing, leaving the city when they started attacking..." she trails off.
Seth leans in and responds, "Of course, you're both understandably traumatized. That's why I wanted to make sure you had these new phones."
John queries, "Are you sure that's wise? Look, I'm um...grateful for this, really, I am. But, the SI monitors a lot on nights such as these."
Seth is firm, "Yes, John. I think it's an opportunity. If we want to take them on, we will have to be proactive. Besides, you have to keep in touch with your Childe. This is a big city, and people do...lose their way around here."
Svetlana chimes in, "You think that we are going to fight SI so soon?"
Seth waves a finger, "Well, you could, in theory--"
Svetlana interrupts, "What about other Clans? Banu Haqim alone cannot fight the SI."
Seth smirks, "They'll see reason and come to our aid. Don't you worry."
He puts his hand on Svetlana's shoulder and squeezes it softly, "You both did well tonight. Celebrate the small victories."
The Viper looks at John, "You have a great Childe here, John. She's got a great head on her shoulders and she's quite talented as well. Keep her close, OK?"
John blinks a couple of times and nods, "Uh, sure."
The Minister turns to Svetlana and looks into her green eyes, "I'm sure your Sire is a great teacher."
She softly responds, "Da. He is great teacher."
Seth smiles, "I'm happy to hear that."
He gently claps his hands, "So, now you're all set! Enjoy your new phones, heh. Also, John, I trust that you'll look more into this N0S4A2 character tomorrow night?"
John nods.
Svetlana looks at the iPhone box in her hands, "Thank you so much for new phone, Seth."
Seth strokes the emeralds on his snake cane, "Oh, the pleasure is all mine. Just try not to...use it too much, haha!"
Svetlana awkwardly laughs along.
John speaks up, "Yeah, thanks, man. I was actually thinking of getting a few burners, but, wow, this--this is a really nice gesture."
Seth playfully responds, "Oh, don't mention it. I just figured that you and Svetlana would appreciate these, that's all."
There's a sly grin on the High Priest's face.
Seth then stands up and walks them both out, "Now, I think that it's about time you both retire for the night. You've done good tonight. It might be a small victory, but it's still better than nothing."
He leans in closer to the 2 Assamites and whispers, "In the few weeks that you've been here, you 2 are already shaping up to be great assets to this city."
John pointedly asks, "Then, why'd you chew us out during the last meeting in front of everyone?"
Seth smoothly responds, "I had to test you, John. I had to test your sincerity, your dedication, your commitment to your cause."
John furrows his brow, "That's a helluva test, heh. But, we're the Blade of Haqim, we are as sincere, dedicated, and committed as they come. Right, Svetlana?"
Svetlana looks at her Sire and fully agrees, "Da. We are."
John nods at Svetlana and then turns to Seth, "So, is that it, then? Any...further tests?"
Seth cryptically remarks, "Everything is a test, John. Anyway, enjoy your new phones. I hope you find the right SIM cards for them. Also, I'd recommend buying phone covers, if you can find some."
Svetlana politely nods, "Da, we will manage. Thank you, again, Seth, for phone. It is most...generous of you."
John walks to the elevator and presses the button.
He cracks a small smile as way of goodbye to the Serpent, "Yeah, it is, I guess. We really appreciate it."
Seth gives his guests a small wave as they leave, "Have a good night, my friends. We'll be in touch, no doubt."
As the elevators close and the 2 Assamites leave the Grand Alhambra Hotel, Seth twirls his cane and paces around.
He tells himself, "Oh, it's gonna be an interesting ride, that's for sure."
Edwin approaches his Domitor, "Sir?"
"Edwin. How are things at the compound?"
"Going well, sir. Everyone is eager for you to come and visit them and impart a new revelation from Typhon."
"Excellent."
Seth continues, "I have been in the city for a while, preparing it for...eventuality."
He puts his hand on Edwin's shoulder, "As my Ghoul, I expect your continued loyalty and cooperation as well as obedience. And I'll continue to reward your efforts."
Edwin's lips part, "Of course, sir. You're have b--been nothing but good to me, sir."
Seth smirks, "Now, come, let's leave this place. There are things we need to prepare for the nights ahead."
Back at the lobby...
Svetlana beams with joy over the free phone she got from that Typhonist. John remains skeptical, but he does need a new phone, at least.
Svetlana holds the box in her hands, her smile wide, "It's...very expensive, no? Seth must have been rich to afford this. I feel bad that he spend so much on us."
John observes, "Well, he's probably loaded. But, yeah, I can't believe I'm holding THE latest iPhone model, wow. I see this thing in, like, commercials and shit, but holding it in my hands?"
The 2 Assamites stand next to each other, the lobby around them, and chat.
John nods over to Ms. Kawasaki, who's lurking around the bar area, "You think we should go show her our new phones?"
Svetlana gasps and shakes her head, eyes wide, "NYET! She will try to take it from us or scratch it!"
She holds that phone box close to her chest like it's a little baby.
"OK, OK," John holds up his hands, "We won't go over there, heh. She's crazy, anyway."
Svetlana nods, "Da, crazy. Suka."
John laughs and heads out of the lobby, his Childe following suit. The warm city air hits them as they step out.
Svetlana, with a look of guilt on her face, asks, "Those 2 amateurs at mall. Was killing them right thing to do?"
John wearily exhales, "They saw too much. They--they knew what we are; they meant to destroy us. We--we had no other choice, Svetlana."
Svetlana pensively lowers her head, "Hmm, it is dangerous for Kindred on nights like this, no?"
"Very. We've got reckless amateurs, the Second Inquisition, and...other Kindred, heh. But, I think it was worth it. At least we stopped them from going public, right?"
Svetlana nods, "Da, yes. The Masquerade is intact, so is good."
John asks, "You want me to drop you home, Svetlana?"
"Nyet. I will take bus and walk a little."
The Banu Haqim Sire and Childe say their goodbyes and part ways.
Chapter 5: Smile
Somewhere else in Al-Kushraf city...
A highly-secure and encrypted chat commences between 2 parties.
OBED: "Data-gathering operation at Palm Springs Mall, Al-Kushraf compromised. Project files for HB-Sensors have been deleted by mysterious and unknown person(s)."
ILHC: "Not good."
OBED: "There is no doubt about that. But, there is evidence of blank body involvement. I believe that our presence here is known by our enemies."
ILHC: "Chatter is abuzz about blank bodies being driven from Dubai. There is nothing that indicates our involvement in such an operation."
OBED: "Indeed, but I believe it is wise to take credit for the attacks, anyway. It should put the fear of God into their shriveled hearts."
ILHC: "We concur. What of potential blank body activity in Al-Kushraf?"
OBED: "Nothing solid. Mostly speculation. These creatures are known for their deception. Requesting dispatch of additional clandestine Mossad and Aman assets to UAE ASAP."
ILHC: "Wilco. Will dispatch dormant assets from neighboring countries and remote locations. Israeli interests in region MUST remain protected."
OBED: "Understood. What of Cairo? No response from assets on site?"
ILHC: "Unfortunately, no. Assets are under strict orders to remain dormant until given further instructions."
OBED: "Very well. If there are blank bodies in this city, we're going to need extra firepower."
ILHC: "Understood. Utilize eastern weaponry to maintain deniability in this matter."
OBED: "Copy that. In the meantime, I'll double our digital surveillance efforts. The new LVNDR system shows great promise, but its power requirements are exorbitant and unlike anything I've ever seen. We'll need a greater operational budget."
ILHC: "Of course. Money is of no object to the Israeli High Command. You just need to ask, Commander Gallant."
OBED: "Thank you for your continued support. Neutralizing the blank bodies should help in our endeavors to fight the terrorists back at home."
ILHC: "Precisely. They still talk favorably about your Unit's destruction of the Al-Jamal Residential Tower in Dubai. We have no doubt that many blank bodies were neutralized on that evening."
OBED: "That's good to hear. Someone there made the mistake of making one phone call too many."
ILHC: "Indeed. As for LVNDR's power requirements, it is best that you siphon from the local power grid if need be. It should make things easier, I'm sure."
OBED: "Copy that."
ILHC: "Stay safe, Commander Gallant. And may God be with you in your righteous task. Am Yisrael Chai."
OBED: "Am Yisrael Chai! Unit 8211 is ready for any task and any challenge that comes its way."
ILHC: "Unit 8211 is always an honor to serve with."
OBED: "Thank you for your time. We will destroy all the blank bodies in the region, b'ezrat HaShem."
ILHC: "B'ezrat HaShem. Goodbye, Commander Gallant."
The secure chat comes to an end and the messages begin to auto-delete from both parties' respective devices.
This...this is not good.
In time, the sun begins its grand ascent into the sky and the city starts to come alive.
The sprawling metropolis of Al-Kushraf buzzes with fast cars, flashing lights, and thousands of people hustling about.
As the sun beams down on the city below, bathing it in its golden rays, the Kindred are in the clutches of the day-sleep.
Their bodies are still and quiet, resting peacefully as they recover their strength for the coming night.
An empty void characterizes the slumber of the day, a place of nothingness and vast, never-ending emptiness.
If dreams and visions do ever occur during the day-sleep, they are mere echoes and figments of such.
And just as the sun must rise, so too, it must set. When that great fiery ball has sunk beneath the tall buildings of this city, the Kindred begin to stir and awaken.
The night is their time, and they thrive in it. It is when they come "alive", when the stars begin to shine, when the shadows become dark, and when the moon illuminates the earth.
Svetlana stirs in her day-slumber, tossing and turning, but not wholly awake yet. She sees...that little child's face.
Again.
Then, that innocent face is overtaken and consumed by a great fiery inferno, leaving nothing but ashes.
And the poor little girl is gone.
The Banu Haqim springs up and wheezes loudly. She checks her new iPhone for the time: "6:30 PM."
Her hands tremble as the child's face continues to flash and burn before her.
Svetlana, still feeling groggy, gets off her bed and stretches. Her undead limbs feel sluggish and weak.
She opens the blinds of her room and peers outside. She looks up at the moon, still low on the horizon.
It's gonna be another night in Al-Kushraf.
She sits on her bed and shuts her eyes for a few moments, inhaling and exhaling, trying to regain some semblance of control over herself.
She opens her eyes and looks at her iPhone again. She presses a few buttons and brings up the web browser.
She searches for: "Mohaimen Studio address."
The Banu Haqim Neonate mutters the address to herself and prepares to ready herself for tonight's fashion photoshoot audition thing.
Who knows, this might lead to her getting her picture on the front cover of some really popular magazine.
And maybe, just maybe, she'll start doing this whole modeling thing for an Unliving.
She can dream, right?
After getting showered, she picks out a sleeveless, knee-length, bodycon black dress for this evening. It's shiny and black and looks like it hasn't been worn at all.
Svetlana also picks out a nice pair of flats and a small bag to complete the outfit.
She sits down in front of the mirror and begins to straighten her blonde hair. She applies some creams and sprays to give it a bit of shine and smoothness.
It's not like she's a total mess or anything, it's just...she wants to look good, that's all.
Her makeup is quite basic and simple, consisting of light cherry-red lipstick and a wee bit of eyeliner.
She gives her reflection a furtive smile and nods in approval.
After taking a few minutes to check herself out and gussy up a little more, Svetlana sits on the bed and stares out the window.
The Assamite takes a few moments to think of her Unlife and everything leading up to it.
She gulps and exhales deeply.
Svetlana wonders what the nights ahead hold for her. She's also still hung up on that Malkavian, Mr. Bean, and his vision of her.
What kind of a vision did that Lunatic have about her? Good? Bad?
Something else entirely?
These questions and plenty more continue to chip away at Svetlana's mind.
She takes a deep breath and prepares to get going.
Before Svetlana leaves for Mohaimen Studio, she takes a few moments to do some light cleaning around her simple Haven.
Since money's pretty tight for her, she's living in a 1 BHK apartment in the city's central district.
It's a bit smaller than most, but it's decent enough for her needs as a vampire.
The apartment is furnished with a basic kitchen, a bathroom, white tiled flooring, a few paintings hanging on the walls, a simple TV, and a very small balcony.
There are a few books and magazines strewn about on the dusty coffee table, with a crumpled bag of blood resting on it.
She dusts off a few shelves and puts away a few miscellaneous items on the countertops.
Its mostly knickknacks she's accumulated over the years, a few colorful matryoshka dolls, some really old black and white pictures of Svetlana's parents and grandparents, and a few small, colorful figurines.
She takes a few moments to check them out, smiling at their bright, colorful, and cheery appearances.
A smile dances on the Assamite's pale face.
She feels a rumbling within her. Her Beast demands that its eternal Hunger is sated. NOW.
Svetlana mumbles to herself and prepares to leave her Haven. She steps out and locks the door.
Svetlana walks down the streets of Al-Kushraf. She keeps her head down as she walks, trying not to draw attention to herself.
Her green eyes dart around and she licks her lips, sizing up a few potential meals for tonight.
Her gaze finally lands on a lone man. He's tall and wearing a sharp blue suit, probably heading to a bar or a club.
He looks twitchy but otherwise harmless.
She stalks the man down like a predator stalking its prey. She quietly approaches him from behind and looks him over.
Svetlana slowly extends her hand and softly touches his shoulder.
The man yelps in surprise, spinning around and trying to figure out who touched him.
She disappears from his sight by activating her Obfuscate Discipline.
He looks back and sees literally no one. He gulps and quickly turns around and prepares to walk off, as if nothing happened.
Svetlana watches him turn around and smiles to herself.
She lunges forward and drags him into a nearby dark corner. The Assamite subdues him and bares her fangs.
Svetlana bites into the squirming man, but his struggle soon gives way to acceptance and resignation.
The man looks around with a glazed over expression, his face and neck turning paler.
She takes only what she needs from him. Nothing more.
Once done, she pulls away, fangs stained with human blood. She licks her lips and fangs clean.
She then licks the wounds on his neck away. It looks like there was never anything there, much less the gnarly pinpricks she left.
The man slumps down and lies against the wall. His eyes are half-open and glazed over.
The Assamite checks his pulse and makes sure he's still alive.
He is. Svetlana presses her lips into a thin line and hurries along without saying anything to him.
This is her reality now.
From there, she makes her way to her destination.
It's a pretty snazzy-looking photo studio in the heart of the city's central district.
Mohaimen Studio is near a number of other famous photo studios and fashion houses. It's a huge building, with a lot of windows and a really big front door.
There's a massive digital display out front, looping between many different models showing off various outfits and poses.
A few people are milling about, but no one seems to be inside yet.
The Assamite looks at everything in awe, jaw hanging open.
A woman in a fancy red and white blazer and pencil skirt opens the door. She speaks with a few other people and nods along, exchanging giggles and handshakes.
Well, this has to be it.
Svetlana walks inside and is greeted by a large, spacious waiting area. There are several couches, a few chairs, a coffee table, and a counter with an assortment of magazines stacked upon it.
The Toreador Primogen, Sebastian, walks out of a door, carrying a few large camera bags.
He beams at Svetlana and nods, "Ah, Svetlana! Good to see you! You came! How's your night going so far?"
The Assamite smiles back, "I am having good night, Sebastian. What about you?" She notices the camera bags he's carrying.
He looks at the camera bags and answers, "Great! Great! I've uh...got a few things to return. You can uh...hang out around here."
The Toreador looks a bit annoyed as he speaks.
He walks behind the counter and starts digging through a couple of drawers.
Svetlana asks, "When is my turn?"
"Oh, we'll call when we're ready. Don't worry. Just wait here and don't loiter around."
"Da. Is no issue. Do you think I...have chance tonight?"
Sebastian finds a measuring tape and looks up at her, "Uh...yeah, yeah, absolutely. I wouldn't have called you all the way up here if I wasn't certain of your potential. You've got the looks for it, certainly."
Svetlana nervously touches her cheek and approaches the Aesthete, "My face...not too pale, no?"
Sebastian studies her keenly, eyes narrowed. He gives her a gentle smile.
"No, no. You've got the looks for it, definitely. You've got the perfect Slavic damsel's bone structure and everything. We'll just use a little concealer to help hide any discoloration, is all."
"Concealer?"
"Yeah. Just uh...just to make sure we get a good shot."
Svetlana nods and thanks the Toreador, "I will give it my best."
Sebastian chuckles, "You better. Anyway, I um...I gotta take care of some last-minute stuff. It's gonna be a big night, so just relax and hang out here, OK?"
"Da. OK."
He walks towards the other room, "Great! You're a sweetheart and an angel! Thanks, Svetlana!"
She looks around the waiting area. Many women are idly lolling about, leaning against the walls, or chatting it up.
There's also a few men, but most of them here are women, most likely looking to make a bit of extra cash on the side.
(This city is pretty fucking expensive to live in!)
She takes a seat in one of the empty couches and pulls out her phone- her new, fancy iPhone.
(Not to mention, free).
She unlocks it and stares at the screen for a few seconds. She's still adjusting to the UI and the way it works, but she's a fast learner, so it's not that much of a problem.
It's only been a few hours since she got her hands on this phone, but it's been pretty useful so far.
Svetlana scrolls through the device, marveling at the fact that Seth had actually bought her and her Sire phones to use.
She makes a mental note to go and get a SIM card after this whole photoshoot thing is over.
A woman next to her, leans forward and exclaims, "Hey, is--is that the newest iPhone?"
Svetlana smiles, "Da. Is newest."
The woman shakily asks, "C--Can--you mind if I see it? I've heard so much about it, I just wanna see it."
Svetlana obliges, "Here."
The woman takes the phone in her hands, and inspects it closely, "Wow! Wow, this is amazing! H--How much did you pay for it?"
Svetlana answers, "Was gift."
"Wow, you must be a really special gal, huh?"
"I--"
"Hey, hey, no judging here. You do what you gotta do to make it in this city, heh. I've been here for a few months now and I'm trying to make an honest living like everyone else, y'know?"
"Da."
The woman gives Svetlana her phone back and continues, "A buddy of mine suggested modelling. I did a bit of it back in the States, but yeah, whatever."
"What do you do now?" Svetlana inquires.
The woman says, "Eh, some pencil-pushing stuff for a Sheikh. Not much to it. I've got a roof to keep over my pretty head, you know?"
Svetlana nods, "Da."
She then asks, "And what about you, what do you do?"
"I am babysitter or however they call it."
The woman chuckles and shifts in her seat, "Wow. A lotta bratty expat kids around here need that, huh?"
Svetlana shrugs, "Da, many. But, they are not all as you call them- they are still children."
The woman snickers, "Well, whatever it is that you're doing, it must be paying off, huh? I mean, you've got a fancy phone like THAT! Whoa, maybe I should become a babysitter, haha!"
Svetlana puts in, "This was gift, not connected with job or anything. From...friend, I think."
The woman slyly smiles, "'Friend', huh? Do babysitters have many friends?"
The Banu Haqim chuckles, "I hope that I do. Without friends, Un--err...life becomes meaningless."
"Oh, sure, sure, whatever you say."
An awkward silence hangs in the air.
Svetlana breaks it, "What is your name?"
"Oh, um...Lindsay. And you are?"
"Svetlana."
Lindsay leans in a little closer and asks, "So, ya think you've got what it takes to make it as a model?"
"Da. I was invited here by...Sebastian. You know him?"
Lindsay is genuinely surprised by her question, "OF COURSE WE DO! Everyone around here does! Seb's like--like this visionary fashion designer. He really pushes the limits, y'know?"
"Oh. I did not know that. I met him...at meeting and he told me that I have potential."
Lindsay nods, "Yeah, yeah, sure. I bet he did."
Svetlana furrows her brow, "Why do you say that?"
Lindsay puts her hands up in defense, "No, no, no, nothing like that. Seb's an eccentric guy, is all. One of the others told me that he stood there, staring at them for like a minute straight."
She grimaces, "It was kinda weird, it was like he was...he was transfixed on her, completely lost, he had that spaced-out look and everything, y'know?" The woman makes weird hand gestures.
Lindsay concludes, "Anyway, yeah, yeah, don't pay Seb's little idiosyncrasies any mind. He's that kinda guy."
Svetlana inquires, "What kind of guy?"
"The kind that can make or break gals like us," Lindsay poignantly explains.
"So...I should be on best behavior and follow his demands? Da," the Banu Haqim plainly responds.
Lindsay amusingly says, "Hey, who knows, if you do make it, you'll be able to get the next iPhone when that comes out and you can gimme this, heh heh." The woman chuckles, obviously trying to make a joke.
Svetlana cracks a small smile and lightly laughs, "Haha! Da, we shall see about that, Lindsay."
Lindsay awkwardly laughs and then meanders off to the bathroom, but not before telling Svetlana to keep her seat.
Svetlana takes a moment to look at the other people around the waiting area. Everyone's (more or less) minding their own business. Everyone here's trying to get somewhere.
Just like she is.
Just tryin' to earn a lil extra cash to make life in this gilded skeleton of a city a little more bearable...or a little less shitty.
At this moment, a person comes in and starts handing clipboards with some forms attached to it.
She's tall, gaunt, and pale with shoulder-length dark-brown hair. She's also wearing a bright yellow pantsuit, her hair tied in a tight ponytail.
She indifferently announces, "Kindly fill out the forms. It's...routine stuff, I assure you. Once done, wait here. We'll call you when we're ready."
With that said, she departs, leaving the clipboards with everyone.
Svetlana skims over the contents and is surprised that she doesn't really have much to write down, thankfully.
Just first and last name, current address, age, sex, occupation, and other such personal data.
It also has an entire section for "Model ID" which seems to be just for the Agency's own records and database.
It clearly reads: "DO NOT FILL. FOR AGENCY USE ONLY."
Svetlana shrugs and clicks the pen shut after she writes down what she's supposed to write. It doesn't take long. She then waits patiently for her turn.
While waiting, she scrolls around on her new phone, reading news articles on the local scene and such.
The reports of those 2 dead Hunters are nowhere to found, surprisingly.
Lindsay comes back and looks around, a harried look on her face.
Svetlana looks up at her, "What is wrong?"
Lindsay grabs her purse and curses under her breath, "My...work. I gotta go, like, right now. Fuck! I--It was nice meeting you, Svetlana. And, y'know, good luck with this. Remember me if you do make it big, huh? Catch you later!" She waves goodbye.
"Uh...da, sure! Have good night!" the Assamite calls back as the other woman quickly exits the waiting room.
The woman from earlier comes and points a remote at the bulky, white air-conditioners mounted on the ceiling.
She presses a few buttons and frowns when the air conditioning system doesn't respond. Svetlana watches her press more buttons.
Nothing.
The woman bangs the remote a few times with the heel of her hand and grunts, "Aaaaah! God damnit, why can't one fucking thing go my--my way for tonight!?"
After hitting the remote control some more, she turns it around and fiddles with it, probably looking to see if the batteries need changing or if the remote control's just faulty. She finds nothing of note.
She finally breathes a sigh of relief when the AC responds. She chuckles to herself and sets the remote on the counter.
The air starts flowing at a steady pace, giving Svetlana a slight chill, but she likes it. It makes her feel a little more alive, in a weird way.
A few others hug themselves tightly and shiver.
"Brrrr, did she have to freeze us?"
"Grrrr. I--It was al--already so co--cold."
Svetlana spends the next hour or so waiting or looking around.
The other people talk amongst themselves, discussing the upcoming fashion shows and whatnot.
Svetlana tries not to look out of place, but that's a tough thing to do when she doesn't know anything about high-fashion and all of that stuff.
The time is now 7:58 PM.
Svetlana gets a tad bit impatient, but she manages to keep her cool. She taps her foot on the carpeted floor and glances at the door leading to the studio every few seconds.
She wonders how long this is gonna drag on for. She's also getting a little anxious.
What if they don't like her?
What if she bungles the whole thing? What if she messes up her makeup? What if she says something stupid and looks dumb?
What if...what if...what if? Her mind races with all these questions and more.
Svetlana hears another worried woman ask, "Does--does this make me look fat? I know Seb can be pretty picky when it comes to his models, I don't wanna risk it."
Another woman rolls her eyes, "I think you look fine, darling. It's just a photoshoot. If you don't get it, you don't get it. There's plenty of other opportunities."
"Yeah, but this is SEBASTIAN we're talking about! He--he's one of the up-and-coming names in the business! And he personally invited me here. I just...I can't screw this up!" the woman nervously rubs her hands.
Svetlana looks down at the carpeted floor and sighs.
Just then, a tall woman in her 30s with dark-brown skin, voluminous afro hair, and an elegant above-knee-length sequins dress, steps into the waiting room.
All eyes fall on her, some mumble and mutter a few words to each other.
The tall woman looks visibly nervous. She briskly walks over to the empty seat next to Svetlana.
She sits down and whispers, "Hello."
Her accent has a subtle French touch that is almost unnoticeable, unless someone listens very, very closely.
Svetlana responds, "Hi." She turns to her right and sees the woman sitting next to her.
She's quite tall, with elegant legs, wide hips, thick lips, trimmed eyebrows, and immaculately-applied makeup.
"I am...Camille," the other woman quietly introduces herself.
Svetlana extends her hand, "I am Svetlana."
Camille gently shakes Svetlana's hand, "You are...also here for photoshoot, non (FR: no)?"
"Da."
Camille nods and pulls out her phone from her small clutch bag, "I...uh...I--" She struggles to find the words to say.
The Banu Haqim patiently waits for Camille to find the words she wants to say.
After a few seconds, the other woman continues, "I--I am here to uh...do the modelling, yes."
Svetlana says, "You are very beautiful. I think you have good chance."
Camille shakily laughs, "You are also beautiful, haha. So, err...how did you find out about this place, Svetlana?"
"I was invited here by Sebastian. You know him?"
Camille shakes her head, "No. I saw something about an audition on the Facebook, so I decided to come here and...see."
Svetlana asks, "Why do you want to be model?"
Camille smiles, "This city...it's very expensive to live in, haha. The additional money I would make from modelling would be very much appreciated."
"I understand. I also need extra money to live."
Camille and Svetlana spend the next few minutes conversing about this and that.
Camille seems like a genuinely sweet and nice person and Svetlana has nothing but respect for her.
Svetlana notices the time on her phone: "8:39 PM".
This thing is gonna drag on for quite some time, it would seem. But, her new friend has helped keep her calm.
"You...you have friends in this city?" Camille asks with an innocent look on her face.
Svetlana's lips part as she processes that question, "I...da. You?"
Camille presses her lips into a thin line and shakes her head from side to side, "No. I still feel...new to this city. I've only been here for a few weeks."
"Da. I've been here for a few weeks, too."
Camille asks, "Have you had any luck with making friends?"
"Not so much, no."
Camille remarks, "It's a very...impersonal city. I feel it is very detached and--and superficial."
Svetlana remorsefully agrees, "Da. It can be lonely at times. Very lonely. I--I try to not think about it much."
Camille lowers her eyes, "Yes, yes, of course. I suppose we all have our reasons for coming here. And being here."
"Very much so," Svetlana stands up and excuses herself, "I will be right back, Camille. I just need to check something."
Camille's eyebrows shoot up in concern, "Oh, OK."
Svetlana walks to the bathroom and looks around.
As a vampire, she has no need to use something as trivial as a bathroom. Still, her curiosity gets the better of her, and she enters the ladies room.
She walks up to the sink and checks herself out in the mirror. She adjusts her hair and makes sure that her makeup is still fresh.
Once done, she exits the bathroom and notices the red door labeled: "STAFF ONLY".
It's slightly ajar and there seem to be voices coming from inside.
Feeling very bored with just waiting, the Assamite tiptoes towards the door and slowly pushes it open.
Inside, she sees 2 people- presumably an aspiring model and a photographer- making out heavily.
Svetlana stifles a giggle as her eyes widen in surprise. The 2 people are too busy exploring each other's mouths to notice her.
She quietly shuts the door and leaves the horny duo to their own kissy-kissy devices.
Svetlana returns to her seat and sits down next to Camille.
"Hello."
Camille nervously smiles, "Hi! Where did you go?"
Svetlana shrugs, "To bathroom. To...check that everything is all good with me."
Camille laughs, "You mean, like, how you look?"
"Da."
Camille puts in, "Oh, well, I think you look great. You're beautiful, Svetlana. If anyone here deserves the spotlight, it should be you."
Svetlana returns the compliment, "Da, you also look beautiful. Tall and very nice hair."
Camille laughs again, "Why, thank you! You're so sweet!"
Camille and Svetlana continue chatting for a few more minutes.
The Toreador Primogen comes out of a door, looking all dapper in his flashy orange suit and purple button-down shirt.
His peppy expression morphs into a look of anger and disgust when he sees Camille conversing with Svetlana.
He quickly approaches the 2 women, "What do you think you're doing here!?"
Camille gasps and looks up at him, "I--I--"
Sebastian balls his hand into a fist and shakes it in front of her face, "This is not the place for you people! Get the fuck out, now!"
Svetlana is shocked by his attitude, "We were just talking, Sebastian. Why are--"
Sebastian takes Camille by her arm and tries to drag her out of there, "This is a fashion shoot, NOT a fucking--gah, fuck, c'mon! Out!"
Camille struggles to break free from his grip, "No! I have a right to be here!"
Sebastian lets go and points a finger at her, "You fucking spearchucker! What the fuck do you know about high-fashion!?"
Camille starts crying, "Please, I--I just need some extra money..."
"Haha, extra money, yeah, OK, whatever you say! OUT WITH YOU!"
Camille sobs and quickly bolts out of the waiting room.
Sebastian angrily mutters, "These fucking people! Who do they think they are, huh?! She...she was just taking up space, anyway."
Svetlana stands up and confronts him, "How dare you do that!"
Sebastian's face scrunches up, "Huh? What the fuck are you talking about? How dare I do what?"
Svetlana explains, "You were very rude to Camille! She was nice lady and does not deserve to be treated like that!"
The Toreador rolls his eyes, "Oh, please. She looked like a gorilla, did you think a thing like that would have a chance to model for me? HA! Don't make me laugh, Svetlana. You, on the other hand--"
Svetlana shakes her head in disgust, "You--you are monster, Sebastian!"
He scoffs, "Whatever--"
The very pissed off and incensed Banu Haqim gives him a tight slap on his face.
Everyone around the waiting room gasps in surprise at what happened.
Sebastian grunts in pain, holding his cheek, "YOW! WHAT THE--!?"
Svetlana says nothing and leaves, pushing aside a shocked Sebastian, who's still holding his cheek.
She storms out of the studio and into the dark streets of Al-Kushraf. She takes a few deep breaths to calm herself down.
You can't talk to people like that and expect to get away with it. Sebastian learned that the hard way tonight, but this racist outburst of his isn't new, nor is it a secret amongst the Kindred, or his Clan.
The ease with which he uttered that particular slur makes it seem like it's something that he uses often. The Aesthete probably doesn't even give it much thought.
He probably thinks he's being "hip" or some daft shit like that.
Other Toreadors in this region refer to their Primogen as a "Karl Lagerfeld wannabe." They know what they're talking about. And the fact that they have such an opinion of him tells you everything you need to know about his character.
Sebastian is a pretentious type of fashion designer who hasn't designed anything in his joke of an Unlife.
No, he does what all "eccentric visionaries and disruptors" do- he steals designs from teenagers on the Internet and puts his name on them. It's disgusting, really. But, it pays the bills for his lavish lifestyle.
If anyone comes at him with legal action, he hits them back with a lawsuit of his own. He's got enough money and influence to do that, sadly.
There's a Lasombra by the name of Titus of Tenebris Legal who helps Seb bury anyone who tries to sue him, or anyone he works with.
The only thing that the Toreador Primogen and the Lasombra lawyer agree on is that people (mortals, mainly) are trash and should be thrown away when they are no longer of any use.
Back inside, the muttering has ceased and a tense and foreboding silence hangs in the air. Everyone is quiet, unsure of how to proceed.
What should they do?
Should they just sit there and wait? Should they leave? Should they speak up?
Or...should they do something else?
Sebastian heaves with rage and and barks at everyone present, "WHAT THE FUCK ARE YOU ALL LOOKING AT, HUH?! WE'LL CALL YOU WHEN WE'RE READY! JUST WAIT HERE!"
He goes to the bathroom and angrily looks in the mirror. He sees a reddening mark on his pale face where Svetlana slapped him. He rubs it, but it's not going away anytime soon. His cheek stings.
He washes his hands a few times, thinking that he's gonna catch something from Camille. He splashes water on his face, trying to calm himself down.
He dries off his hands and face with the nearby dryer, feeling a bit more relaxed now.
The Primogen then leaves the bathroom, still fuming.
Sebastian pulls out his shiny flip phone and dials a number. He impatiently taps his foot on the floor as it rings. No answer. He calls again, still nothing.
He tries a 3rd time, but no one picks up. Sebastian hangs up, "FUCK!"
On the 4th attempt, someone answers, "You have reached the offices of Tenebris Legal. No one is currently available to take your call. Please leave your name, number, and the nature of your business in the voicemail. We will get back to you as soon as we can."
Sebastian grunts, "Yeah, Titus? It's me, Sebastian. I got something for you, get back to me when you get this, OK?!"
He laughs nervously, "C--Call me back, alright?"
He ends the call and makes his way to the main studio. He steps into the spacious, well-lit room. Several large windows line the walls, with various props and backdrops littered around the place.
A few photographers mill about, setting up their equipment.
Sebastian hollers at them, "What's taking so fucking long, huh?! I thought you slugs said we'd be ready by now!"
One of them apologizes, "Sorry, Sebastian! We're still waiting for the models to arrive."
"Waiting? WAITING?! There's dozens of Slavic bimbos out there for us to choose from, damnit! And you're telling me that they aren't fucking enough!?"
"Seb, we need a little more than--" another photographer defends.
"Shut up!" Sebastian angrily retorts. He storms off and goes back out, where all the people are waiting. He looks around and sees Svetlana's empty seat. His eyes dart around, looking for her.
Where did she go? He stomps over to the receptionist's desk and asks, "Hey, hey, where's that bitch that slapped me?"
The receptionist meekly points to the exit and lowers his head, cheeks flushed red in embarrassment.
Sebastian storms outside, leaving everyone else in a state of confusion and bewilderment. He looks both ways and spots a very familiar figure. Svetlana.
Camille is sitting on the pavement and crying her eyes out. Svetlana tries her best to console the poor lass, but she just keeps crying. The Banu Haqim feels helpless.
What can she say or do to make this right?
All she knows is that she hates seeing a person in distress like this.
"Shhh, it is OK. You are beautiful woman, do not listen to that idiot--"
Sebastian speaks up, "Get back in, for fuck's sake!"
Svetlana turns around, her green eyes full of fury and outrage, "Do not speak with me, fool! Leave us alone!" she shouts at him.
Sebastian approaches them, "No, no, no, you--you've still got the looks, the pretty Slavic--"
Svetlana claps back, "Shut up!"
She helps Camille get up and they both start walking away.
Sebastian yells after them, "Oh, go on, walk away, bitch! Yeah, Slavic bimbos like you are a DIME-A-FUCKING-DOZEN in this goddamn city, anyway!"
Svetlana seethes with rage and disgust at that remark. She turns around and gives him the universal gesture of the middle finger.
Camille starts bawling again, sobbing uncontrollably. Svetlana tries to calm her down, but it's useless.
She feels bad for her and hates to see her new friend in such a sorry and broken state.
After walking for a few blocks, the duo enter a small café.
This café has red and white checkerboard flooring, smells of fried food wafting through the heavy night air. There are a bunch of mismatched chairs and tables.
It's a quaint little place, tucked away in the corner of the city's central district. It's not fancy, nor is it super hip and trendy, but it's got its charm.
In a way, it seems to resemble an average American diner, judging by the decorations and décor inside.
The only person inside is the owner, a middle-aged man with a receding hairline and a handlebar mustache. He's fair-skinned and clad in a messy thawb and a stained apron.
He smiles and awkwardly greets the duo, "Howdy...pardners. Please, please, take a seat. Uncle Sam will be with you beauties shortly."
Svetlana leads Camille to a table by the window and they sit down. They both look around, feeling out of place and uncomfortable.
Svetlana asks, "Are you OK?"
Camille sniffs and slowly nods, "Yes. I--I think so. I did not expect my night to end this way."
"Da."
"I'm sorry, Svetlana, I didn't mean to drag you into this mess," Camille apologizes.
"It is OK, Camille. He is horrible man and I do not feel loss over him."
"Me too. I can't believe he said those things to me. I felt like crying on the spot. I--I just couldn't bear it anymore."
Svetlana looks at her, "What will you do now?"
Camille sighs deeply, "What can I do? It's not like I can go to the cops and tell them what has happened. This is the UAE, there's nothing they'll do, legally speaking, to help me or anyone else who would find themselves in my situation."
The Banu Haqim inquires, "What next? We cannot just let it go, no?"
Camille ruefully smiles, "You--you have quite the sense of justice about you, Svetlana. I admire that, but...it's not worth it."
"If you say so."
They both spend the next few minutes idly chatting about this and that.
The mustache dude comes over and offers the 2 women a menu each, his American accent is so painfully fake and cringe-inducing that it sounds like something you'd hear in an old-timey movie about the Wild West.
"Here ya go, girls, enjoy the fine food and beverages we have to offer here. It's all good and affordable, heh heh!"
Camille thanks him and Svetlana gives him a quick nod.
For obvious reasons, Svetlana doesn't order anything.
Camille, on the other hand, orders a large strawberry milkshake and a plate of onion rings.
The Banu Haqim patiently waits for Camille to finish her meal, feeling a bit frazzled by all that has transpired, but she doesn't want to leave her new friend here by herself.
Camille offers an onion ring to the Assamite, "Oh, you really should try 1."
Svetlana politely declines, "Nyet. Is OK. You enjoy."
Camille nods and goes back to clearing out her plate. She stops to take a few sips out of her tall glass of strawberry milkshake.
After a few moments, she finishes her meal and pays for it.
It all comes up to 23 dirhams. Not bad!
The Banu Haqim stands up and they both leave the diner. They walk around the city for a little while, just taking in the sights and sounds of Al-Kushraf.
Camille's demeanor has noticeably changed since then, she seems a lot more relaxed and happier now. She even smiles every now and then, which is nice to see.
They both eventually arrive at Camille's apartment building.
It's a long and dark-gray structure that stretches far across the entire block, with a few balconies and such.
She lives on the 15th floor, which is pretty damn high up.
"Well, this is me," Camille announces.
Svetlana nods, "Da. Are you...OK, Camille? I am sorry for what happened at studio tonight."
Camille sucks some air in through her teeth, "Yeah, it was terrible, a--and to think people like him design the clothes we wear...it's...it's a real shame, honestly."
She pauses for a moment, thinking of something to say, "But, it's alright. It--It doesn't really matter. There's nothing I can do about it, anyway." Her tone is laced with sadness.
"I will never understand such people," Svetlana says.
Camille sourly chuckles, "Yeah, neither will I."
The 2 ladies say their goodbyes and part ways.
Camille goes back to her place and lazily plumps herself down on her sofa. She turns on the TV and mindlessly watches some show, attempting to get her mind off things.
Svetlana walks down the sidewalk, looking around the neighborhood.
It's not too bad. A few cars zoom by every now and then. There's a handful of people walking around, most of them heading home from work or wherever they were.
Svetlana then heads to a local phone shop and buys a new SIM card for her phone. The process takes a couple of minutes, but she doesn't mind, she's still got the whole night ahead of her.
Her mind keeps going back to the slap she gave Sebastian earlier. That felt good. Maybe too good for a justice-oriented Banu Haqim like her?
With her new SIM card inside her phone, Svetlana spends the next hour or so roaming the city.
The Assamite Neonate makes sure to avoid any secluded areas or anything of that nature.
Her thoughts drift back to Camille and the way Seb racially abused her.
That guy has some serious issues.
Svetlana says to no one in particular, "My babushka's borscht has more fashion sense than he does!"
On the other side of this city, somewhere near the outskirts...
John parks his dinky car and steps out. He makes his way to a gaggle of people all standing around outside.
He's dressed in a hoodie, sweatpants, and scuffed sneakers, with a beanie on his head and sunglasses on.
His iPod is in his hoodie's pocket, earphone wire trailing up into his right ear. He casually walks over to the group of people, keeping his cool.
This group all cheer for the various racecar drivers and their crews, watching as they all warm up their engines before the big race of a legally questionable nature.
The night air is filled with the sound of revving engines and the smell of burning rubber.
All kinds of cars are here- muscle cars from the 60s, modern sports cars, luxury sedans, off-roaders, you name it!
There's something for everyone. It's a sight to behold! An entire collection of fine machines that look and sound ready for the race of their lives!
(And Unlives, in the case of certain folk).
A few people are gathered in a corner, excitedly chatting it up with their friends and other fellow race enthusiasts.
John joins in and politely nods at them.
A man with dark curly hair wildly gesticulates, "I was here last time, walla, I am telling you, that N0S4A2 absolutely obliterated everyone else. Like, no one was even close!" His accent is thick.
Another man in a red puffer jacket and faded jeans leans against the coarse wall and adds, "Yeah, absolutely. I'm telling you, N0S4A2 is simply built differently. I don't know if--if there's even a human under their helmet, haha."
The group laughs and cheers at his statement.
An older woman with dyed-blonde hair, heavy eyeliner, and an eye-catching white jumpsuit, speaks up, "Yeah, I will admit- N0S4A2 is a strange name. It sounds like that movie from the 1920s."
John butts in, "That was a...pretty interesting movie--"
The curly-haired guy dismissively cuts in, "Hey, we--we aren't here for movie talk, habibi! We're here to talk about cars and racing!"
John inquires, "It's my 1st time here. Uh...is this legal?"
The tracksuit chick scoffs at such a question, "The Emirati authorities don't give a flying shit. Those fools at the local precinct only care about their envelopes full of cash."
"Alrighty," John says.
The red puffer jacket guy looks John up and down, "Hey, little man? Wanna make a bet? I got a 100 dirhams that N0S4A2 comes in 2nd place tonight."
"No," the Assamite curtly declines.
The blonde lady snickers, "200 says they come in 1st place."
The puffer jacket dude and the curly-haired guy laugh out loud.
John smirks at their foolishness and watches the 2 bettors exchange a tight handshake, as if to seal the deal.
The group chats for a bit longer. The talk about all kinds of things, mostly about cars.
The Assamite does his best to appear interested and follow what they're saying, even though it's hard to tell if they're talking about actual car-related stuff or just going off about a car brand or model they like.
The people go on chatting about the race, but it doesn't look like the stars of the show will be leaving their spots any time soon, as a bunch of the other drivers seem to be rolling in whenever they please.
The whole thing seems very informal and loose, which makes John think that this race has probably been going on for quite some time now.
These things are organized whenever, but without proper sanction or support.
John sticks close to the group and nods along, occasionally offering his 2 cents on certain topics, such as cars and racing, obviously.
The group chats it up some more and soon enough, the time to watch the race arrives. The bettors eagerly stand on the sidelines, cheering and shouting at the drivers and their crews.
A pitch-black, shiny IROC-Z with a matte-gray underbelly slowly rolls up to the starting line. It stops there and waits, the driver is still inside.
John notices the heavy modifications that this particular vehicle has. It looks like the driver (or someone else) spared no expense to make this beast of a car go even faster than it normally would.
This is clearly a very serious machine built for a serious racing event. There are even after-market tires on this car.
The door opens and out walks an imposing and heavyset person clad in a zipped-up leather jacket, dark chinos, and a helmet that completely obscures their features.
Large swathes of the crowd break out in cheer, "N0S4A2! N0S4A2! N0S4A2! N0S4A2!"
John cranes his neck to get a better look at the figure that's causing so much excitement in this part of the city. The driver stands up straight and clasps their gloved hands in front of them, waiting for everyone to calm down.
The cheering eventually dies down. John's ears ring from all that. He slowly blinks a couple of times and rubs his eyes, adjusting his sight.
The Caitiff racecar driver known as N0S4A2 maintains their stance, not moving or doing much of anything. Their helmet's opaque visor reflects the crowd, which is looking on with awe and interest.
There's a faint sense of mystery and foreboding reflected on the helmet's surface, something that makes the spectators' blood rush.
There are some scattered murmurs in the crowd, but for the most part, they stay quiet and let the racer be.
A skinny dude jumps over the fence and lunges towards N0S4A2, trying to get their helmet off and unveil their secret identity to everyone.
N0S4A2 is quick to grab that derpy guy's arm. They viciously twist it, causing a sickening and audible crack to emanate. The guy cries out in agony as he gets shoved into the fence by his broken arm, which is now at a weird angle.
He starts screaming for help, but N0S4A2 goes back in their car and slams the door shut.
There's a 100,000 dirhams reward for anyone who can unveil the Caitiff's identity, and they know that.
There's been attempts to unmask them for a very long time now, and this isn't the 1st time something like this has happened.
And it likely won't be the last.
The race is about to begin, everyone cheers and watches with bated breath. In time, the flag is waved and the cars go off like a bunch of rockets!
Dust clouds and dirt flies all around the racetrack as the engines roar like the angry, ferocious, heavily-modified beasts that they are.
N0S4A2 dominates the whole thing, flying past all the other vehicles with ease, and with style!
There's no announcer, but there are cameras that have been placed in the appropriate locations that help one get an idea of what's happening out there.
N0S4A2 seems to be in 2nd place as they zoom down the straight, the headlights of their opponent's cars are on, lighting the track, giving it a strange, ethereal, and surreal look.
The audience roars, "N0S4A2!" over and over as their favorite driver breezes past everyone, leaving them all in the dust.
A blue Porsche overtakes N0S4A2's IROC-Z.
N0S4A2 veers away from them and spins out for a few moments before getting back in the groove.
They keep speeding up, and eventually, their opponent's blue Porsche starts to lag behind, their tires screeching across the track.
The race comes down to N0S4A2 versus a few others, all of whom are driving a bunch of fast and powerful vehicles.
It's an even race, with each vehicle being equally fast and equally impressive in terms of both horsepower and handling.
Those who are lagging behind make the decision to activate their NOS, temporarily giving themselves a massive power and speed boost, allowing them to reach even higher speeds and make much better time than normal.
John watches from a distance with a certain awe, but the sudden burst of speed and the intense light produced by the NOS results in a nasty crash.
Yikes.
The backside of that blue Porsche from earlier has been completely shunted off, with bits of it scattered on the road, while the front half of the car is left hanging.
N0S4A2 makes the smart decision not to get too close to their opponents.
They slow down and observe the wreckage before speeding back up again and quickly getting back in front, putting more distance between them and their opponents.
The driver in 3rd place swerves their silver Audi to the side and hits a rock, which causes them to crash into a lamppost and veer off the track, crashing into another lamppost and tumbling over a few times before landing upside-down in a ditch.
The driver jumps out and quickly dives to the ground. They roll into the ditch and cover their head, curling into the fetal position. The crash must've hurt them real good.
N0S4A2 zooms past the rest, seizing 1st place with ease.
Once again, the crowd goes absolutely wild with excitement, "N0S4A2! N0S4A2! N0S4A2!"
N0S4A2 skids to a stop and waits for everyone to arrive, their engine revving and making all kinds of interesting sounds as they patiently wait.
Swarms of enthusiastic people descend on the track. Cameras are everywhere as they film N0S4A2's arrival. People excitedly jump the fence, and they all try to get a glimpse of their favorite driver.
The Caitiff sits in their car, still and calm, unmoving and unaffected by all the ruckus that's going on outside.
Their visor reflects the frenetic chaos that is unfolding in front of them, with people fighting for a glimpse of N0S4A2 as if they are a famous rock star or an actor or some such.
People incessantly bang on the window of the IROC-Z, shouting for the Caitiff to get out and give them an autograph.
After a few seconds, N0S4A2 revs their engine and honks their horn to get the attention of the crowd, who slowly disperse.
A couple of police sirens are blaring in the distance as N0S4A2 exits their IROC-Z, and a hush falls over the crowd.
"Yalla! Yalla! (AR: Go! Go!) The police are here!"
A group of fancy-schmancy police cars speedily drive onto the scene. They quickly get out, and, just as quickly, the crowd starts to scatter, everyone dispersing in the opposite direction, as far away from the police as they can.
John quickly walks to his car and gets in, hoping he can follow the elusive Caitiff without drawing too much attention to himself. He doesn't want the police to notice him and potentially cause him some trouble.
A couple of police officers begin rounding up people who are still here, and dragging them to the waiting cop cars.
John is out of dodge and a couple of feet behind his mysterious target. He looks on with interest as he sees N0S4A2 effortlessly blend into the chaos.
It's amazing to him how they are able to move and slip between the cracks without causing so much as a single distraction.
John gulps and keeps a safe distance, hoping to at least find something out about this driver that would make their identity clearer.
Maybe even make the mysterious Caitiff trip up and reveal their true nature.
The way N0S4A2 twisted that guy's arm and shoved him into the fence is still fresh on his mind. John shudders at the memory. It was like nothing he had ever seen.
He never witnessed someone do such a thing without flinching or stopping. That definitely confirms that N0S4A2 is Kindred; only a vampire's innate preternatural strength could do that.
The Assamite takes note of N0S4A2's physical appearance (as best as he can) as they swiftly make their way down the dark and desolate roads of this vast metropolis.
The IROC-Z comes to a sudden stop and N0S4A2 gets out of their vehicle.
John slams the brakes, tires screeching to a stop.
He watches in stunned silence as N0S4A2 strides towards his dinky car.
John has been made, woops. He turns the ignition and the engine starts running again.
N0S4A2 rips the car's door open and pulls John out, shoving him to the ground.
John looks up and sees the Caitiff pull out a piece of paper from their pant pocket.
N0S4A2 pins John down with 1 hand while unfolding the paper.
N0S4A2 grunts a few times, holding the piece of paper close to John's face.
The paper has the following words scrawled onto it: "NO FOLLOW!"
John shakily says, "Hey, hey, hey, I'm Kindred. Like you, we're just curious, y'know. We wanna know who--"
N0S4A2 hisses and shoves the paper closer to John's face, almost as if to emphasize its point.
The Caitiff then takes the piece of paper and shoves it back in their pant pocket.
John gulps and props himself up, "OK, OK, I get it. No...follow. I--I understand." His tone is meek. He doesn't want any trouble.
He quickly adds, "But, people are looking for you, buddy! Powerful people! You can't stay hidden forever, y'know!"
"I'll take my chances."
N0S4A2's voice is so muffled and distorted by their helmet that John can barely make out what they are saying. It's almost like hearing someone speak through a wall or something.
John frowns, "You'll what?"
N0S4A2 wordlessly gets back in their car and drives away.
John shakily laughs to himself, "Well, I got 'em to speak, but why are they so protective about their identity? It's not like the Caitiff in this city have a reputation to protect or anything like that."
He stands up, feeling confused. Who the hell are they? What do they have to hide?
Why all the cloak-and-dagger stuff, anyway?
John shrugs these questions off as he rolls a shoulder and gets in his car, "Eh, I did what I came here to do. Seth just has to understand that there are some mysteries in this city that aren't worth investigating, or solving, or whatever."
He mutters to himself, "Some things are better left alone, heh. Anyway, back home now. I hope Svetlana's enjoying her fashion thing."
As John drives back to his Haven, he can't help but wonder about the mysteries that surround the elusive N0S4A2.
Why are they so protective of their identity? Who are they, and why do they choose to hide it?
John drowns these nagging questions out with the comforting voice of Kristin Mainhart, coming from his earphones.
"Hmm-hmmmm. Mmmm," he hums, nodding his head as if she's singing directly to him.
John was gonna be in for quite a surprise when he finds out how Svetlana's evening went, though.
Somewhere else in this city...
A highly-secure and encrypted chat commences between 2 parties.
ILHC: "Commander Gallant. Sitrep?"
OBED: "All quiet in Al-Kushraf so far. LVNDR systems functioning better now that we siphon from the local power grid."
ILHC: "Excellent. Mossad and Aman assets will be arriving shortly."
OBED: "Good to hear. I'm going to have a few posted in Dubai in case we sight any lurking blank bodies."
ILHC: "Exercise extreme caution when engaging. Wooden stakes to the chest are more than enough to render them immobile. Fire and sunlight are known to obliterate them."
OBED: "Yes, I know. The files even say that the blank bodies have an unusual fear of the fire."
ILHC: "Precisely. Utilize flamethrowers should the situation arise. It will give you a massive tactical advantage."
OBED: "Understood."
ILHC: "Anything else, Commander Gallant?"
OBED: "How does this LVNDR system work? I know the basics, but not the specifics."
ILHC: "That, Commander Gallant, is beyond your paygrade. It is highly classified and will remain as such in the interest of Israeli national security."
OBED: "I'm sorry, I didn't mean to pry."
ILHC: "It is not a problem. I will leave you with the following: The system is a decade ahead of its time, perhaps more. The vast data it processes would overwhelm even the best-trained Unit 8200 analysts."
OBED: "Unit 8211 is pleased to have such a sophisticated and cutting-edge system at our disposal."
ILHC: "The feeling is mutual, Commander. This is the future, and we are the pioneers. We will use this system to hunt down and destroy the enemies of Am Yisrael, wherever they are, whatever they are, and whoever they are."
OBED: "Indeed, and we are glad to assist in such a righteous task."
ILHC: "Good. Now that LVNDR is at optimum functionality, expect it to yield better results. The blank bodies are out there, Commander. Lingering and lurking."
OBED: "Understood. It has been a while since my Unit has done any hunting."
ILHC: "Getting rusty?"
OBED: "No. Many of my people took part in Operation Cast Lead. We are anything but rusty, we are sharper than ever."
ILHC: "Ah, yes, the Gaza offensive. We did a superb job there. Those were trying times, indeed."
OBED: "Very much so. Gaza will be ours again, b'ezrat HaShem."
ILHC: "The entirety of this savage and violent region will soon belong to Israel once more, Commander. That is a guarantee."
OBED: "Yes. With God's help, it will."
ILHC: "Amen. How do your Lieutenants fare, Commander Gallant?"
OBED: "They are waiting for action once again. Especially Lt. Klein and her team."
ILHC: "Lt. Klein has served Israel well and will continue to do so."
OBED: "I have high hopes for the rest of my people. Also, I don't know if this is worth anything, but there have been troubling reports regarding the combat-enhancing drugs that we've been using."
ILHC: "Do elaborate, Commander Gallant."
OBED: "Some of my people report feeling nauseous or anemic. And they say the drugs don't seem to doing much, either. They're still not at full strength."
ILHC: "Impossible. The drugs use all-natural ingredients and should be having an effect, regardless of how minor."
OBED: "This is what I thought, too. But I had my people go to the infirmary for some routine tests. The medical staff said the drugs aren't even registering in their bloodstream."
ILHC: "Disregard. It was, in all likelihood, a bad batch. Continual usage of the CEDP is necessary, Commander."
OBED: "I've heard the same rumors from the rest of the Unit, and I've also had my people undergo the usual tests. Same result. There are no traces of the drugs, at all."
ILHC: "The Combat-Enhancing Drug Protocol is confirmed to be 100% safe with 0.00001% risk of side effects. This is standard protocol, and you are to continue its usage, Commander Gallant. That is an order."
OBED: "Understood. But I will keep you updated on this. Something is clearly amiss."
ILHC: "Nothing is amiss. These worries of yours are misplaced. The CEDP is working perfectly and as intended."
OBED: "Alright. I'll take your word for it."
ILHC: "I suggest you keep a tighter rein on your people, Commander Gallant. If you are going to be engaging with the blank body threat, you must ensure ironclad discipline amongst your ranks."
OBED: "These brave men and women are the best of the best. They know what is at stake. They won't fail us."
ILHC: "We certainly hope not. You are dismissed."
OBED: "Thank you. Goodbye."
The clandestine chat session ends and the messages start to unceremoniously delete themselves.
The SI is getting closer and closer to the Kindred of Al-Kushraf. Warmer, warmer...
How long before it's red-hot?
Chapter 6: Summons
The remainder of the night rolls on without anything too exciting happening.
Svetlana pulls the sheet over her cold body and prepares to be taken in by the slumber of the day.
As the sun begins to rise, her green eyes flutter and she feels the familiar, dulling pull that accompanies the sleep of the undead.
John is as snug as a bug in his bed, but the mystery and intrigue surrounding N0S4A2's identity will remain, for the time being, unknown.
But, there is something else that will catch their attention later tonight.
The sun now stands high in the sky and casts its harsh, hot, and unforgiving rays onto the streets of Al-Kushraf.
Cars, bikes, trucks, and other vehicles zoom past the highways and byways, their mortal occupants blissfully unaware of the dark secrets lurking beneath their very feet.
An entire world exists just out of their grasp and limited knowledge- a world of darkness.
The afternoon is sweltering and unforgiving, the beams of the sun pelt the land with their fiery fury. As that subsides, the sun begins its grand retreat, giving way to a night full of possibilities.
Yet again, Svetlana stirs, tossing and turning in the last moments of her day-sleep.
She sees that little girl's face again, this time a bit clearer. She's missing a few teeth in her mouth. Her eyes are wide and her hair is a bit scraggy.
The Assamite's vision then fades and the poor kid is gone, consumed by a fiery inferno.
Svetlana jerks awake and blinks a couple of times. Her hands are shaking and her clothes feel uncomfortable.
Her eyelids flicker open and she groggily sits up. She takes a few deep breaths and tries to get her bearings.
She wipes a few beads of bloody sweat off her forehead.
She slowly rises from her bed and walks over to the sink, washing her face a few times.
The Banu Haqim Neonate looks at her pallid reflection in the mirror. The dark circles under her green eyes really stand out. She sighs deeply and dries her face off.
This is not the 1st time the memory of that terrible evening has resurfaced. She knows exactly who that little girl was.
She gulps deeply and inaudibly mutters something to herself, an aghast expression on her pale face.
As she's doing so, a soft and almost tender whisper pierces her ears, "Setlana..." It seems to originate from inside her room. She's the only one in here, right?
Her vampiric senses are sharp and well-trained, she would've noticed an intruder or someone else.
"Setlana..." It sounds oddly cheerful, like someone playing hide-and-seek, waiting to be found.
Svetlana spins around and looks at the various parts of her room. No one is here.
Where the hell is this voice coming from? The walls have no holes or openings, nothing is amiss.
The Assamite looks around the room once more and checks the bathroom, but there's no one in sight.
This is really odd.
Just then, the lights flicker and the power goes out. Svetlana's enhanced vision adjusts and she makes her way out, looking around for the source of this anomaly.
Her neighbor is also outside, phone in hand, flashlight beaming. She looks around and exclaims, "Power cut?! Since when?!"
After a few tense minutes, the lights flicker and come back on. Nothing else seems to be amiss.
Svetlana goes back inside and gets ready for the night. After bathing, she picks out a sleeveless top, a pair of worn denims, a pair of ankle boots, and a brown leather jacket.
A couple of bracelets and rings complete the look. The Assamite Neonate also applies some light makeup and a bit of perfume, not too much, just enough to give off something reminiscent of an Arabian desert night.
It's nice and soothing. It makes her feel at ease when she heaves a lung-full.
After putting everything away, Svetlana exits her Haven and heads down to her apartment's lobby area. Another power cut hits the moment she steps out of the elevator.
Damn.
The power returns after a few minutes and she quickly makes her way outside, heading to the main road.
The Beast has to be fed for tonight. She takes a few looks around, hoping to find someone suitable to bite into.
Meanwhile, John has just finished getting ready and is preparing to leave his industrial-style loft apartment when the power goes out. Again.
This is not good. He really needs to call his landlord about this.
"Shit, not again," he grumbles as he grabs his car keys and checks himself in the mirror. Everything seems in order.
He has a feeling that tonight will be a long one. His instincts never lie. He hears a knock on his door. He frowns and looks through the peephole.
John calls out, "Who's this?"
Someone dryly says, "Please open the door. We need to talk. It concerns Svetlana--"
John gasps and immediately unlocks the door and lets them in, "Is she OK?"
The stranger is clad in an elegant, yet simple black dress and has a white shawl draped over her shoulders. Her long, dark hair is pulled back and tied up into a neat bun.
A man clad in smart casual wear stands next to her, hands clasped together. His black beard and mustache are neatly trimmed. He sports a snake tattoo on his right wrist.
His expression is neutral. John looks them both over, sizing them up. They are both Kindred.
The woman says, "I'm Joyce and this is my associate, Tristan. We're with the Ministry."
John is puzzled by these new arrivals. Who are they and what do they want with Svetlana?
He sighs and lets them in, "Uh...uh, sure, come on in."
The 2 Setites enter the Assamite's Haven and look around, taking in their surroundings.
Joyce asks, "What's your name?"
"John."
"John," Joyce nods, her tone is polite, but businesslike, "And you are the Sire of Svetlana, correct?"
John nods, "Yeah, why? Has something happ--happened to her?"
Tristan glumly answers, "For all our sakes, we hope not. The Ministry has summoned you both to Elysium tonight. We are here to see that the summons are fulfilled."
Joyce explains, "If she does not come with us, the consequences will be dire."
John, getting a bit irritated, presses, "Why? What did she do?"
The 2 explain the events of last night.
By the end of it all, John sighs deeply and is speechless.
Joyce adds, "I hope you understand the gravity of the situation. Svetlana needs to answer for her crimes against the Toreador Primogen."
"'Crimes' my ass," John quietly mutters.
Tristan says, "The Primogen is not just some ordinary Kindred, John. He is afforded a certain amount of respect, especially among the Kindred of this city. What Svetlana has done has offended him. Deeply."
Joyce clarifies, "It doesn't matter how we feel about it or who was right or wrong. You and your Childe will be coming with us to Elysium."
John bitterly remarks, "I know I wasn't there, but I'll tell you 1 thing- Svetlana probably had a good reason to slap that son of a bitch."
Joyce reiterates, "It is not for any of us here to decide. Now, come. We will go and find your Childe and bring her along. Do not make this difficult."
John grumbles something unintelligible, but he agrees. He does not want to cause trouble or draw the ire of the Setites or anyone else for that matter.
John spins his car keys around his finger and puts them in his pocket, "I know where Elysium is. I'll follow you."
Joyce strides to the elevator and presses the button without saying anymore. Tristan waits besides her.
The 3 of them pile into the elevator and wait. They stand in awkward silence for a few seconds.
John breaks the silence, "So, the Ministry is holding an inquiry or whatever, huh?"
Joyce plainly responds, "Yes. We have no Sheriff or Prince to arbitrate such matters, but we will get to the bottom of this and determine the guilt or innocence of your Childe."
"OK," is all John can say at the moment. He is not happy with the way things are turning out.
Tristan remarks, "It's the 1st time something like this has happened. I knew you Assamites would be nothing but trouble from the moment you got here--"
Joyce clears her throat and throws a baleful glance at her fellow Serpent.
Tristan sheepishly bows his head, "Hmph, whatever."
Joyce nods and keeps her gaze fixed on John.
The elevator opens and the 3 walk out.
Tristan and Joyce climb into a really posh-looking Ferrari with scissor doors and a fancy paint job.
John shakes his head and mutters, "Of course." He gets into his dinky car and follows behind them.
They soon arrive at the Grand Alhambra and pull up. Svetlana is picked up along the way.
She was in the middle of stalking someone to feed on when John spotted her and motioned for her to quickly get in the car. He explains everything on the way, but he promises to back her 100%.
As Svetlana's Sire, it's only natural for him to do so.
Tristan parks in some space reserved for VIPs. Joyce and Tristan exit their car and stride towards the Grand Alhambra.
John pulls into the parking lot and quickly parks.
As they are about to go in, Tristan holds a hand out, stopping John in his tracks, "Have you fed?"
John shakes his head, "I was busy following you people--"
Svetlana adds, "Nyet. I was about to but John spotted me and told me to get in."
Tristan curtly replies, "Then, you will both be provided meals, as per the our policy. Just make it quick."
"Thank you," John politely says.
The 2 Setites guide the 2 Assamites into the Grand Alhambra. The hotel is still very much packed and lively.
The 4 get into an elevator and prepare for the long ascent to the 140th floor. They switch elevators when required and continue the ride in tense silence.
Once at the 140th floor, John looks around and spots a couple of familiar faces.
The Banu Haqim Vizier is here, sitting and enthusiastically conversing with some random Setite about his favorite topic- Alamut.
The Setite feigns interest, but she's not actually listening to a word the Assamite Primogen is saying.
The Vizier is the only person who looks genuinely interested. He is even gesturing wildly.
A handful of other Assamite Kindred are present, but not a lot of them. Also, they don't seem to be of the Blade, unlike John and Svetlana. They are dressed like everyday folk. A few of them are talking and laughing amongst themselves.
John whispers, "He's here." He points to the Vizier.
Svetlana looks, "Hmm, will he be supporting us?"
John scoffs, "I wouldn't count on it, Svetlana. Vizier Mohammed is as spineless as they come."
"Hmm, da. Who will support us, then?" There is a look of concern on Svetlana's face.
John warmly reassures her, "I will. As your Sire, it's my job to protect you."
Tristan impatiently interrupts, "You are wasting time. Come on."
"Yeah, yeah, OK, we're coming," John grumbles.
The goon at the front door asks if the 2 Assamites have any weapons.
Svetlana and John both answer in the negative and are let in to the lounge area.
Vizier Mohammed rises from his seat and walks over to them, a hard look on his face, "John. Svetlana. I do not know what possessed you to attack the Toreador Primogen--"
John interjects, "Now, listen here, Mohammed. Svetlana told me that Sebastian was being a racist piece of shit to someone, so she slapped him."
The Vizier shakes his head, "Regardless, this is highly disrespectful! It is unwise for the Children of Haqim to act in such a manner!"
Svetlana insistently says, "But he was being a terrible person!"
"And you thought to slap him, Neonate? You could have just ignored his words, assuming what you claim is even true in the 1st place," the Vizier argues.
John retorts, "It IS true. My Childe wouldn't lie! What are you insinuating, huh?!"
The Vizier scoffs, "The Blade of Haqim has been known to lie in the past."
John snarls, "Bullshit. Y'know, Mohammed, you really are as spineless as they come. Me and Svetlana are more Banu Haqim than you'll ever be."
The Vizier frowns, but before he can say anything, Tristan speaks up, "Enough of this. Save your pointless bickering for later. The Ministry has summoned you and we expect a civilized response. From all parties."
Joyce nods, "This is a serious matter and should be treated as such."
John rolls his eyes and sighs, "Fine, fine."
Svetlana nods, "Da."
She gives the Vizier a dirty look and goes to the back of the lounge where 2 mortals are waiting to be fed on.
After a few moments, the 2 Assamites walk out, their inner Beasts satiated for the time being.
Svetlana notices some blood on the corner of her Sire's lips and wipes it off with her finger. He smiles at her and gives her a reassuring nod that, without words, says, "Everything's gonna be alright."
Tristan and Joyce wait by the doors of the lounge.
The Assamites quickly rejoin them and John asks, "What's the holdup?"
Joyce answers, "We're waiting for the others to arrive. The Ventrue Primogen shall be arriving shortly. The Malkavian Primogen is down in the basement going over some things."
"Hmm, and the Toreador Primogen?" Svetlana inquires.
Tristan dryly says, "He will be here, don't you worry."
John queries, "What about Seth? When's he coming, and who's actually gonna arbitrate this inquiry thingy? Or whatever?"
Tristan answers, "The inquiry will be handled by the Ministry. Seth will oversee the initial proceedings and will determine what happens next."
John, getting a little bit angry, presses, "OK, but he's not the Prince, why is he the one arbitrating?"
"It's not for any of us to question the High Priest's decisions, John. This city is run differently from your typical Camarilla Domain."
Joyce continues, "You 2 might be used to Sheriffs and Princes and whatnot, but we do things a little differently in Al-Kushraf."
Svetlana shrugs, "What about Harpy? Will Paul be coming?"
Tristan blandly says, "Yes, he will be here. Don't expect him to take your side, Assamite. He's Toreador, so he'd likely vote in favor of his own Clan. Your best bet is to be in the good graces of your own Primogen."
John mumbles, "He's useless."
Tristan and Joyce say in unison, "Not our problem."
Svetlana asks, "What will happen after the inquiry?"
Joyce answers, "If you are found guilty, you will be punished. If not, the whole thing will be deemed a misunderstanding and you'll be allowed to leave."
John furrows his brows in confusion, "What kind of punishment? You certainly can't be talking about Final Death here! Have some sense of proportionality, for fuck's sake!"
Joyce shrugs, "It is not for us to decide. It is all the will of Typhon. The High Priest is the closest we have to final authority on all matters and no one goes against him. Ever."
John snidely asks, "And what's the deal with this whole Typhon thing, anyway? It's like your god or something, right?"
Tristan growls at this, "Watch your tongue, Saracen, or I shall tear it out and stuff it down your Childe's throat." His eyes are burning with anger, hand curling into a fist. His knuckles crack.
The veins in his neck are bulging. A faint smile creeps on his face. He is ready to strike. He is ready for violence.
Joyce places a firm hand on his shoulder and glowers at him, "These Assamites are just trying to rile us up. Don't fall for their tricks."
Tristan grunts and nods to some empty seats, "Begone with you 2. Shoo, shoo."
John and Svetlana sit down and look at each other. Their fate is now in the hands of these mysterious people, and they don't know what to think of that.
Svetlana looks out the window and notices her faint reflection. The poor woman's face looks as pale as a sheet. She is worried, scared, and anxious.
After about 10 minutes, a tall and rather imposing-looking man with a goatee enters the lounge area.
Absalom is wearing a plain thawb with patterns stitched into it and a shawl around his shoulders. He wears a necklace around his neck.
Svetlana quietly whispers to John, "It's Absalom."
The Malkavian Primogen is flanked by Mr. Bean.
He is dressed in a blue satin shirt with the sleeves rolled up, a pair of chinos, and brown loafers.
John snorts, "And that crazy guy from last time."
Absalom looks around and spots Svetlana and John. He walks towards them, Mr. Bean following close behind.
The Malkavian Primogen looks down at them and raises an eyebrow.
He speaks, "Your Childe, John, has caused trouble. I know only what Seth told me, but there have been rumors already going around."
Svetlana stands up and looks the Malkavian Elder in the eye, "He was being rude to--"
Absalom gives her a death stare that freezes her in her place. She falls back into her seat and sits there, dumbfounded.
The Malkavian Primogen continues, "I don't care very much for the reasons, Svetlana."
Mr. Bean has a weird grin on his face, as if expecting something.
Svetlana gulps and remains quiet. John shoots her a quick look. She nods slightly and sinks further back into her seat.
John says, "So, what do you want, Absalom? Can we at least count on your support if Svetlana is found guilty or whatever?"
The Malkavian Primogen vaguely answers, "We shall see. Come, Mr. Bean, let us take our seats and wait."
Mr. Bean giggles and looks at Svetlana in an almost unsettling way.
He says, "See ya later, honey! It's gonna be great fun, tehehehehe!"
Svetlana glares at him and says nothing.
The Malkavian Primogen and his companion head to their seats and wait.
John grimaces, "Whoa, what is up with that Mr. Bean guy? Sheesh, he's got a few screws loose."
Svetlana nods and says, "Da. I agree. Very weird."
John adds, "Let's just hope he's on our side, if that's the case. We'll take any support we can get from anyone. And I mean ANYONE, heh."
Svetlana looks around and notices many of the Setites in this room are glaring at her. The Assamite has never felt so vulnerable before.
She quickly looks away and nervously gulps, feeling the pressure of those snake eyes burrowing into her.
A few minutes pass and more people start arriving.
A dapper-looking man strides in with a certain cocksure bravado.
Svetlana recognizes him immediately, "It's him."
John also recognizes him and grumbles, "Of course. The Ventrue Primogen."
Mark is wearing a printed anime hoodie jacket over a plain black t-shirt. A pair of jeans and a pair of sneakers complete his surprisingly casual attire.
He walks over to the Malkavian Primogen and the 2 talk about something.
John mutters, "Well, I wouldn't count on his support..."
Svetlana ruefully sighs, "Hmm, da."
Mark doesn't acknowledge the 2 Assamites and takes his place besides the Malkavian Primogen.
John and Svetlana sigh, looking down. This isn't going well for them. A short while later, a few more people start arriving.
Sebastian enters, a smug and triumphant grin on his face. He is flanked by his entourage and hangers-on.
Svetlana looks at John, her expression turning sour. She stands up and points an accusing finger at the Toreador Primogen, "Svoloch (RU: Bastard)!"
Sebastian facepalms and quickly meanders to a corner of this dimly-lit lounge. The room has gone silent and everyone is looking at Sebastian.
"Oh shit," he mutters.
A few murmurs and whispers begin filling the lounge area, slowly becoming louder.
John calms his angry Childe down, "Not helping, Svetlana. We're already in deep shit, let's not go any deeper. Heh, not that there is any deeper than we already are..."
"Sorry. But he was acting like he did not do anything wrong! It is not right, John!"
"He doesn't see what he did and said as a big deal, Svetlana. Guys like him, they only see things in terms of power and money."
"Hmm, da. I see."
The Assamite and her Sire look around the room. A lot of the Setites are shooting the Toreador a look of sympathy, which is in direct contrast to the dirty looks they were giving John and his Childe.
A few minutes pass and the door to the lounge opens, and Paul, Toreador Harpy, and some other guy neither John nor Svetlana recognize come in.
"Who's that?" Svetlana inquires.
This guy is old, like in his 70s or something. He's got dark skin, a gray beard, and is clad in an embroidered thawb with a turban wrapped around his head.
He walks around with a certain grace and has a regal aura about him. His dark eyes are sharp and piercing, the look of a scholar, most likely.
He clutches a few heavy tomes in his arms. The Assamites notice his necklace. It is an elaborate ankh.
The Toreador Harpy makes his way to the 2 Assamites, a pensive and contemplative expression on his face.
He takes a deep breath and sighs, "Svetlana. John. You're both here, g--good."
Svetlana glowers at him, "What do you want?"
Paul looks around and grabs a nearby seat, bringing it closer to the 2 Assamites, "I know I'm the last person you wanna see, but not all of us Toreadors are racist a-holes, y'know."
The Assamites beckon for him to continue, which he does, "Uh...just know that I am on your side here, Svetlana. I'm gonna be going against my Clan and Primogen here."
"Thank you, Paul, we're...glad to hear that," John nods.
Svetlana concurs, a look of relief washing over her.
John proceeds to inquire, "Who's that guy?"
Paul answers, "A Setite Ancilla by the name of Yahya As'ad Najjar. He's a Typhonist scholar, of sorts. He's gonna be the one presiding over this whole...thing, along with Seth."
Paul has an uncertain and doubtful look on his face.
John cuts the crap and pointedly asks, "Is my Childe under trial? Is she gonna face Final Death??"
Paul raises his hands in a placating gesture and reassures the duo, "No, no, no. It won't come to that, I swear. However, Sebastian might expect Svetlana to cough up some money for uh...causing him distress or whatever."
Svetlana scoffs, "I will do no such thing! Sebastian should, as you say, cough up some money and pay that poor lady who he insulted last night! I hit him, yes, but I did it for good reason!"
Paul wearily nods, "Yeah, I know. This whole thing has been a shitshow for our Clan, heh. We've known about Sebastian's racism for a while now, but most of us chalked it up to him being eccentric or politically incorrect or whatever."
He clicks his tongue, "I guess his behavior was tolerable if only for the fact that he was making a ton of money and threated to use some Lasombra named Titus to sue us to the ground if we ever caused any trouble."
"A Lasombra? Of course," John dryly remarks.
"Yes, I've heard rumors and whispers about this Titus guy- let's just say I'm not too keen on meeting him. Ever."
John sourly chuckles, "That bad, huh?"
Paul nods, "Mm-hmm."
The Harpy looks at Svetlana and takes her cold hands in his equally cold hands, "Hey, hey, listen. No one's head is gonna come rolling off tonight, OK? I promise."
Svetlana's eyes grow wide. Her heart begins to act up.
Her Sire senses the unease and gets a little worried, "Hey, is something the matter, Svetlana?"
Svetlana gulps and sniffs, a few tears of blood forming in her eyes, "N--No, it's nothing. I--I'm OK. Thank you, Paul. At least I know I can trust you."
She hugs him tight, causing him to tense up.
John pats her on the back and gives her a gentle nod, "Don't worry, I'm with you a 100%."
He looks around and angrily mutters, "What's taking Seth so long?"
Paul answers, "He was down in the basement of this place with Absalom. They and a few others were going over some things."
John folds his arms and disinterestedly asks, "Like what?"
Paul is in an answering mood, "Absalom over there is helping set up a few routes for the Circulatory System. The Blood Trade in this part of the world is pretty damn lucrative and is a major source of revenue for the Ministry."
John sighs, "Hmm, fun."
Paul shrugs, "Apparently, Absalom has experience with this sort of stuff. He told me he used to run a Blood Bank back in Chicago since the uh...1950s, yeah."
Paul concludes, "So, yeah, Seth was looking over a few details and the whole thing is set to start um...next week, assuming everything goes smoothly."
John asks, "What else does the Ministry do around here?"
Paul replies, "The Ministry has been working with some powerful groups here in Al-Kushraf- old money types, influential Sheikhs, blah blah blah. They're good at passively maintaining the Masquerade and keeping the peace, I guess."
Svetlana interjects, "As Harpy, have you ever heard of Prince Angela Whiteford of Clan Gangrel?"
Paul's eyebrows shoot up in surprise, "Yeah, plenty. Why do you ask, Svetlana? I thought you knew her?"
Svetlana pensively lowers her head, "Da, I did know her. She was a wonderful woman. Very kind and understanding..." her voice trails off as she reminisces about the fallen Dove Prince of Dubai.
Paul offers, "Well, most of the...let's just say not-so-nice things I've heard about her came from the Setites, especially--"
The doors to the lounge swing open and in walks Seth.
Fucking finally.
The Setite High Priest wears a brown suit, a striped yellow shirt, and a pair of ankle-length boots. He's got his trademark snake cane in his hand and is accompanied by another man.
John gasps when he recognizes this other man that Seth brought with him, "It's him! Oh shit, i--it's fucking him!"
A look of horror appears on Svetlana's face and she quickly looks around, "G--Gallagher."
Paul chimes in, "Him, so is it true? Did he actually quit being Sheriff of Dubai after having a falling out with Prince Angela? I've heard dozens of--"
John holds his hand up, "Not now, Paul. I'll tell you more later, OK?"
"O--OK. Right."
The former Sheriff of Dubai has a hard-bitten look on his face. He's wearing a tight round-neck, long-sleeve shirt and a pair of jeans.
Svetlana's hands begin to tremble and she starts to cry tears of blood, "He--he is here to--to execute--"
John quickly allays the fears of his Childe, "No, no, he can't hurt us, he won't. I promise you, Svetlana, he--he's not gonna touch a hair on your head, OK?"
Svetlana tentatively gulps and silently nods, wiping the sanguine tears off her face.
Paul looks at her with concern, "Whoa, what did this guy do to you both? I've heard about how violent he is, but you 2 look pretty freakin' shaken up just by the sight of him."
Before the duo can answer, Seth announces, "All rise." He has his cane firmly planted in the floor. Its serpent head is staring everyone else down, a certain coldness to its emerald eyes.
A sudden power cut strikes the lounge, the lights are out and everyone is engulfed in a darkness.
The only light coming from the area is the cityscape outside. Everyone's enhanced vampiric vision kicks in. A few murmurs and grumbles are heard.
"This is the 5th time it's happened just this night!"
"Puh! A city like this ought to have a more stable power grid!"
"Inexcusable! The Sheikh will be hearing about this..."
John and Svetlana exchange looks and wait. Paul is also on edge, looking around. His hands are shaking.
Seth clears his throat and says, "As I was saying, all rise."
Some banging sounds come from the elevator doors. The metal has been slightly bent and distorted.
Everyone's attention is now fixed on the doors. Seth calmly asks, "Can someone please open those? Thank you." He is unfazed by these turn of events.
Joyce and Tristan go over to pry the elevator doors open. With some effort, they get them open.
Mr. Bean, Absalom, and Sebastian look on with great curiosity. Paul nervously gulps.
Svetlana and John stay put.
An angry Scottish accent is heard, "Aye, fuckin' leccy issues again?! It's been all over the gaff since last night!"
Tommy, the Nosferatu Primogen, is wearing his mosaic-patterned porcelain mask along with a sharp black suit. He strides over to the center of the lounge and looks around. His sickly eyes are furious. He is in a foul mood, it seems.
"Sorry I'm late," he curtly says, his tone is sharp, "Had a wee bit of an issue with the leccy down in the sewers."
Seth shrugs, "It's no issue, Tommy. At least you made it here on time."
Yahya clears his throat, "Mr. Seth, is there any idea when the power shall return? I am ready to begin these proceedings at the soonest." He clutches a few of his ancient tomes and his ankh.
Seth casually answers, "Give it some time, Mr. Najjar."
The Setite Ancilla isn't too keen on that response, "Hmph, very well."
Mr. Bean tugs at Absalom's sleeve, "Hey, hey, hey, Absalom?"
Absalom stifles a sigh, "What is it, Mr. Bean?"
Mr. Bean grins, "The Assamite, Svetlana, she--she's real, isn't she?"
Absalom scratches his eyebrow, "Yes, Mr. Bean, she is indeed very real. But, this is neither the time nor the place to discuss your vision about her--"
Mr. Bean tenses up, "But this is THE place--"
The power is suddenly back on. The lights are back and the elevators are functional once again. Everyone in the room lets out a collective sigh of relief.
Seth continues, "If there is no further delay, the inquiry may now begin."
Edwin, Seth's Ghoul, drags a lectern into the lounge and sets it up for Mr. Yahya.
Yahya thanks the Ghoul and places a heavy tome on the lectern.
He opens the tome and says, "Let us begin. Before we start, however, a few rules must be adhered to."
He begins reading a passage from his book, "We stand here in this great and majestic city as Typhon's chosen and the blessed ones. Our duty is not to this world, but to Typhon."
The Setites in the room, Seth included, all reply, "All praise be to Typhon! May Apep lead us to our rightful destiny!"
"Blessed be Typhon!" Seth exclaims.
Mr. Bean joins in by shouting, "Blessed be Typhon!"
Svetlana, John, Paul, and the rest of the non-Setite Kindred present are just sitting or standing there, awkwardly wondering what the hell is going on.
Seth, noticing the confusion, says, "This, my uninitiated friends, is a part of who are. I understand it might be unsettling for some, but the Ministry does have its traditions."
Mr. Bean excitedly adds, "Yep, yep!"
The Typhonist High Priest pauses for a moment before continuing, "Typhon has granted us a great purpose. We are to be the Serpent's fangs. Its eyes. Its will made manifest."
Seth gestures to the Setites, "The Followers of Set will lead the way for all Kindred and the mortals, too. Please, don't be alarmed by such displays, friends. It is all part and parcel of our...unique existence."
He turns to the Toreador Primogen and says, "Now, Sebastian, come forward."
Sebastian rises from his seat and confidently makes his way towards the center of the room, a smug grin plastered on his face.
Seth turns to John's Childe, "Svetlana of Clan Banu Haqim, of the Blade of Haqim. Please, come forward."
John whispers, "Hey, Svetlana, you gonna be OK?" His concern is genuine and heartfelt.
Svetlana nods, a look of steely determination on her face, "I will be fine."
Paul pats her on the shoulder, "You got this, don't worry."
"Thank you," she quietly says, rising from her seat.
She strides towards the center of the room. Her gait is sure and steady, not a trace of fear or doubt in her.
Yahya begins by asking, "Sebastian of the Clan of the Rose, you have been brought forward a serious charge of assault against the one named Svetlana, of the Clan of the Hunt. Is this correct?"
Sebastian smugly replies, "Yes, it is. She attacked me. For no reason."
John snorts, "Of course you'd say that, you son of a bitch."
Yahya thunders, "Silence! You will speak only when spoken to. This is a serious matter and should be treated as such!"
Yahya turns to Svetlana, "And you, young lady, have been accused of assaulting the Primogen here, correct?"
Svetlana lowers her head and doesn't respond.
Yahya's expression hardens, "You will answer me, Childe. You will answer me or you will face dire consequences!"
His booming voice makes her jump a little.
Svetlana nervously nods, "Da. I attacked him because--"
Yahya holds up his finger, "Ah, ah, ah, ah. We will get to that in due time, Assamite. Let me first establish some ground rules."
He proceeds to lay out the rules for this inquiry, "There will be no interruptions or talking back, understand?"
Everyone nods.
Yahya continues, "The following Clans will be excluded from voting on any matters relating to this inquiry: Setite, Toreador, and Banu Haqim. Is that understood?"
Mumbles of assent fill the room.
Yahya looks over his shoulder at Seth, "You will also not be permitted to participate in these proceedings, High Priest."
Seth respectfully nods, "Of course, we defer to your vast wisdom and knowledge, Mr. Najjar."
Seth takes his seat next to Edwin and casually leans back, stroking the emeralds on his snake cane.
Tommy, the Nosferatu Primogen, grumbles, "What a load of shite."
A few Setites shoot him a dirty look, but don't say anything.
Yahya says, "Good. Now, let us proceed. Sebastian, you may begin your defense."
The Toreador Primogen steps forward and addresses the gathered Kindred, "I'm gonna cut to the chase, alright? It was a private and exclusive event. That--that fucking gorilla--"
Yahya raises his finger, "There shall be no swearing or invectives during these proceedings, Aesthete."
Sebastian groans, "Uh, right, right. Whatever, I'm sorry. So, anyway, a woman just barged in and acted like she owned the place!"
Svetlana growls, "Liar!"
"Order, order! You will have your turn, Assamite. Sebastian, please, continue," Yahya sternly says.
Sebastian clears his throat, "So, I told her to get outta my place. That's when this crazy Slavic Assamite got up and slapped me! Like, for no reason!"
Svetlana angrily retorts, "For no reason?! I know what you were doing and I am not going to sit idly by and let you insult that poor woman!"
Yahya stands up and bangs the lectern with the palms of his hands, "ORDER! ORDER! You will be civil, both of you!"
Svetlana and Sebastian glare at each other.
Yahya sighs and sits back down, "Very well, let us continue. Assamite, you may now speak."
Svetlana speaks her mind, "I did what was right. He was being rude and disrespectful to that woman."
John stands up, "My Childe is telling the truth, Mr. Najjar!"
Paul pulls John back down, "Not helping, buddy. Not. Helping."
Yahya shakes his head and ignores John, "And this woman, who was she? Is she a threat to the Masquerade in any way? Do we have reason to dispose of her?"
Svetlana indignantly replies, "Of course not! She is perfectly innocent woman! She did nothing wrong. Sebastian is the one who was harassing her!"
Yahya remains unsatisfied, "That, Saracen, is not what I asked. Does this woman have any connections or affiliation with our enemies?"
"No," Svetlana firmly responds.
Yahya folds his arms, "I see. Then, she poses no threat to the Masquerade, are you certain of this?"
Svetlana confidently nods, "Da. She is just ordinary woman who wanted to be there for fashion photoshoot before Sebastian started calling her names."
Yahya nods, "Good, good. At least we have some...understanding of the situation. What I am about to ask of you next is extremely important. This question will decide the fate of the matter at hand."
Svetlana straightens her back. Sebastian preens himself and maintains his smug expression.
Yahya's eyes are cold and piercing, like a cobra's, "Was your action warranted, Childe?"
Svetlana takes a few seconds to formulate an answer, "Da. Sebastian said vile and--and racist things against that poor woman. She had done him no harm or caused him any offense. He was the aggressor and he was acting very immaturely."
Yahya ponders this for a few moments before asking another question, "And, if given the opportunity, would you do the same thing again?"
Ooooh, tough one, eh?
Svetlana looks back at her Sire and Paul for a moment.
The former is looking at her with great concern, but he gives her a nod that says, "Don't worry, whatever you do is the right thing. I'll support you no matter what."
Paul nods and gives her a subtle thumbs-up, pressing his lips into a thin and sincere smile.
Svetlana resolutely replies, "As Banu Haqim, I have Clan Compulsion for Judgment. I am compelled to punish those who trespass against others. As a Kindred, I believe I have duty to help and protect others, and I will not apologize for doing the right thing."
She adds, "And, if given the opportunity, da, I would do same thing again."
Impressive. Simply impressive.
Yahya nods and strokes his beard, "Interesting. What say you, Degenerate?"
("Degenerate" is one of the many Nicknames afforded to the Toreador Clan).
Sebastian scoffs, "That's BS. With all due respect, but you're missing the point that Svetlana here is part of a group of Banu Haqim extremists known as the Blade of Haqim."
He snidely adds, "So, her definition of 'justice' and 'right' is not the same as the rest of us...civilized and refined people."
John scoffs and rolls his eyes.
Yahya exhales sharply, "Yes, I have heard of the Blade of Haqim and their...interest in a certain conflict that rages far away from your little oasis, seemingly with no end in sight."
He leans in and narrows his gaze, "That does not, however, absolve you of responsibility in this matter. As a Primogen, you must conduct yourself with more decorum."
Sebastian declares, "It was a private institution, I had every right to kick her out of there!"
Svetlana retorts, "Nonsense! Tell him what you called her! Tell him that word you said, Sebastian!"
Yahya's brows furrow.
Sebastian smugly smiles, "Oh, you mean the so-called 'slur' I used?"
Yahya interjects, "A slur? My rules regarding swearing and invectives remain in effect, Aesthete."
"It wasn't a slur, sir. It was a mere expression, a harmless observation, something a woman like herself is probably VERY familiar with," the Toreador Primogen blithely explains.
Yahya proposes, "If that is the case, then you will certainly have no issue repeating this particular word in front of all these civilized and refined people, yes?"
Sebastian looks around, his face growing paler and his confidence quickly dissipating, "Uh, well..."
The Setite Ancilla presses, "Come now, do not be shy. After all it is only, in your words, 'a mere expression, a harmless observation.'"
Svetlana glowers at Sebastian with her green eyes, adding to the pressure mounting on him.
John, Paul, Mark, Seth, Tommy, Absalom, and even Mr. Bean are staring at the Toreador Primogen intently, waiting for his next move.
Sebastian is starting to sweat droplets of blood.
Gallagher folds his arms and fakes a yawn.
Yahya looks at the former Sheriff and asks, "Is something the matter, Mr. Gallagher?"
Gallagher exhales, "No. I personally don't see the point of all this roundabout. Just get to the part where she pays him for damages." He is cold, terse, and blunt.
The former Sheriff of Dubai doesn't have time to play word games. Not at all.
Yahya sighs, "Sebastian, if what you said is as harmless as a pinprick on dead flesh, then there is no reason for you to avoid answering, yes?"
The Toreador Primogen grits his teeth, "OK, fine. If you want me to say it, I'll--I'll say it!"
Yahya holds his finger up, "Actually, I would prefer it in writing."
He snaps his fingers and orders, "Fetch me a blank sheet of paper, quickly!"
Edwin springs up and runs off, returning a few seconds later with a blank sheet of A4 paper.
Yahya thanks him and accepts it, placing it down on the lectern in front of him.
He takes a fountain pen and unscrews the cap, holding it up to Sebastian, "I would appreciate it if you would write out what it was you said in the most...accurate and correct way you can."
The Toreador Primogen steps forward, hands shaking. He bends over and writes the slur down.
The paper is so old that it nearly tears. The words are scribbled on, the letters are sloppy, but the slur can still be clearly made out.
It's a pretty archaic slur.
Yahya's bushy eyebrows shoot up in surprise, "Ah, I see. Interesting..." He scratches his beard and places the pen back in his pocket, folding the piece of paper in half.
He sticks the folded-up sheet into the front cover of one of the books. His eyes dart from person to person as if gauging their reactions.
He notices that Mr. Bean's fangs are out, "You, in the blue shirt, retract your fangs, immediately! I do not appreciate such blatant displays of hostility within these hallowed walls!" he scolds him.
Absalom speaks up, apologetically bowing his head, "I sincerely apologize for the behavior of my charge. He...is still learning his manners. My humble and most sincerest apologies."
Mr. Bean goes, "Tehehehe!" in response. Absalom pats him on the back, a weary expression on his face.
The Setite Ancilla calls Seth to him. The High Priest rises and approaches him, a questioning look in his eyes. "Yes, Mr. Najjar?" he politely says.
"How may I be of service, honored one?" he asks.
Yahya proclaims, "We will determine the Assamite's guilt by way of vote. The Clans who shall participate are the following: Ventrue, Nosferatu, and Malkavian. Primogens, step forward and vote, please."
He turns to Seth and Gallagher, "You may not participate."
Tommy groans and rolls his eyes. Gallagher is silent, his eyes narrow. The Setite Ancilla turns away, not paying the ex-Sheriff any mind.
Mark stands right behind Sebastian, "As Ventrue Primogen, I vote in favor of Sebastian of Clan Toreador."
Tommy, surprisingly, stands behind Svetlana and places his cold and deformed hand on Svetlana's shoulder, "Aye, nae worry, hen. You did the right thing. I vote in favor of this Assamite!"
Absalom remains in the middle of Svetlana and Sebastian. He looks to his left, then his right.
Mr. Bean has an almost unsettling look on his face, a slight and crooked grin, as if expecting something.
The Malkavian Elder simply says, "As Primogen for Clan Malkavian, I abstain."
Mutters and murmurs erupt, as well as a few snorts. A few Setites scoff and sneer at the Malkavian. Sebastian folds his arms in satisfaction, while Svetlana glowers at him with contempt.
Yahya firmly nods, "So, it is a stalemate, then, hmm? To think I came all the way from Cairo for this...well, then."
He addresses everyone, "You have voted, and as Typhon is our witness, it is so. No further action is to be taken, no 'damages' are to be paid." He emphasizes "damages."
Sebastian's eyes widen and his jaw drops in disbelief, "Wait, what?" He quickly approaches the Setite Ancilla.
Yahya holds up a stern finger, "Do not approach me any closer, Bullfighter. I do not appreciate your presence so near my person."
Sebastian stops and stays put, "What is the meaning of this? She slapped me! She assaulted me, ME, a Primogen of Al-Kushraf city!"
Yahya regards the Toreador Primogen coolly, "And I have weighed her actions against the word you uttered. While you did nothing illegal or punishable in any way, the manner of your behavior was inexcusable."
He proceeds to explain, "As a Primogen, there is a higher expectation for decorum, for manners, for propriety. You of all people must understand that we Kindred walk a fine line between Unlife and Final Death, especially on perilous nights such as these."
Sebastian groans and begrudgingly accepts the outcome. The others also appear satisfied, if only by the fact that this ordeal has been concluded.
Yahya summons Svetlana, "Angel of Caine, come here, please," he motions her forward with a gesture.
She does so. The Setite Ancilla exudes a certain gravitas about him.
He studies her from head to toe, "I can tell that you have a firm sense of right and wrong. A boon to some, an obstacle to others, no doubt. Be that as it may, you will not assault anyone in the future, no matter what they say or do."
Svetlana is about to object, but he cuts her off, "Ah, ah, ah. As Kindred, you know that we are now bound by certain rules. Our enemies relentlessly hunt us down to the corners of the Earth, seeking our Blood and our end."
He sharpens his gaze, "The Masquerade must be preserved, or we are ALL doomed to face an uncertain and unsightly fate. Am I understood?" he sternly asks her.
Svetlana, in a very passive-aggressive sort of way, replies, "Da. Clear as crystal."
Seth steps forward, "Ah, Mr. Najjar, what would we do without your wisdom, hmm?"
Yahya claps back, "This Domain plays a very dangerous game by not having a Prince and a Sheriff. I understand that Ms. Sybil once claimed Praxis over this city, but it has been decades since anyone has heard from her."
Seth replies, "Yet, this place has been running fine, Mr. Najjar. We have had our share of difficulties in the past, but we have handled them with utmost care. And discretion."
Yahya scribbles something down in a book of his, "Be that as it may, where is Ms. Sybil? I understand that you and your Sire were quite close to her, no?"
Seth shrugs, "To be honest, none of us know. It's likely she was Beckoned off to some remote part of the world."
Seth's voice has a hint of false melancholy to it, "Sybil was feared around these parts, that's why no one dares to override her claims of Praxis over this Domain. Some say she might return to take what is rightfully hers."
He smirks, "Some even claim she might already be here, waiting for the right opportunity to become the Prince of this city."
He looks down at his cane for a moment, "Regardless of rumors and hearsay, we go about our Unlives, Sybil or no Sybil."
Yahya, unimpressed, snorts and scribbles something down, "So you say, so you say."
He looks around and says, "Well, my work here is done. I don't suppose there is any other matter you wish for me to address while I'm here, hmm?" He looks at Gallagher for a moment before returning to Seth.
"None. Thank you for coming, Mr. Najjar. You're a true scholar," the Setite High Priest bows.
Yahya shakes his head, "You know I am far more than that. If I were you, I would exhaust every available resource in locating Ms. Sybil. Many laughed at her when she initially claimed Praxis over this city, for it was nothing but desert, empty tombs, and parched lands."
"And now look at what it has become!" he wildly gestures to the outside.
"Wealth and power! She was shrewd in the art of manipulation, I must give her credit for that," Seth nods.
The High Priest shifts his gaze elsewhere, "Wherever she is, Typhon continues to watch over her. But, in the meantime, we carry on, as we have always done."
"I hope it does not end in a tragic way, Mr. Seth. There are greater dangers afoot," Yahya shakes his head and makes his way towards the elevator.
Seth smoothly replies, "Oh, no, Typhon has blessed us greatly. And, I believe that there are even greater things in store." The last part, for whatever reason, sounded very ominous.
Yahya picks up on this, "And what kind of 'greater things' are in store, I wonder? Is it truly in accordance with Typhon's will?"
Seth confidently says, "I would not take 1 step without making sure Typhon wills it. As High Priest, it is my duty and honor to always be a conduit and a voice of the Serpent."
"As it should be, yes," Yahya nods in approval.
The elevator dings and the doors open.
Yahya calls out, "I suppose I will see you soon, yes?"
"You most definitely shall, honored one," Seth respectfully bows.
"Do visit Cairo some time soon," the Setite Ancilla adds as the elevator doors close.
John and Svetlana are still there. Svetlana has her back pressed to the wall. John is standing there, leaning back on one of the plush red velvet seats.
He sighs, relieved, "Whew! That could have gone worse, heh."
Paul nods, "Yeah, I was half expecting it to turn into some kinda brawl or something, heh heh," he nervously laughs.
Tommy joins them, "I never liked that Toreador walloper. Moreover, him being a massive racist bawbag is news to me! And, I'm supposed tae know everything!"
The Nosferatu Primogen complains, "He once threatened to sue me just 'cos one of me mates expressed interest in Embracing some fancy male model."
He turns to the others, "He's always been like this, I suppose. But I just thought he was one of them eccentric Toreador types, you know? I know the other Toreadors around 'ere call him a 'Karl Lagerfeld wannabe' behind his back."
The Nossie lets out a gurgled laugh.
Paul sighs, "I heard stories, so I decided to stay outta his way and just let him do this thing, y'know. We...we really need a better Primogen for our Clan, haha! J--just don't tell anyone I said that, OK?"
Svetlana smiles, "Your secret is safe with us, Paul. Maybe you should be Primogen?"
Paul nervously chuckles, "Who? Me? Oh, no, no. I--I actually like being Harpy. Primogen is way too much responsibility and a headache I'm not looking for, hehe. But, maybe after things settle down in a few uh...centuries."
Mark, the Ventrue Primogen, approaches them and spreads his hands out, "Yo! Uh...a bit awkward back there, huh? Listen, I was--"
Tommy sneers, "Get yourself tae fuck, ya boaby!"
Mark's eyebrows shoot up in surprise, "Whoa. Hey, hey, look, Seb's an old pal of mine, OK? Besides, Clans Ventrue and Toreador are the High Clans, unlike...you," he says, gesturing towards Tommy, Svetlana, and John.
John stares back, "Fuck off, you self-important Ventrue!" He is not at all happy to see Mark here.
Mark holds his hands up in mock surrender and takes a few steps back before turning on his heel and walking off.
Seth, with a pleasant look on his face, strides over to John and his Childe, "I do believe that the inquiry is concluded and everyone has voted in accordance with Typhon's will."
John folds his arms and rolls his eyes, "Oh, not this Typhon stuff again."
Seth ignores that, "Actually, I have another task for you, John."
Paul excuses himself, as does Tommy. They both go to a corner and chat in private, their voices low.
John sarcastically remarks, "Another task? Great." His tone is sarcastic and very, VERY displeased.
Seth isn't in the mood for games, "A Salubri from Dubai recently got into contact with me--oh, wait, where are my manners? How are the phones I bought for you and your Childe? Is it all working as intended? Good, good?"
John gives the thumbs-up, "The phone's great, man."
Svetlana, standing beside him, gives a thumbs-up, "It's OK! T--Thank you so much, Seth."
Seth smiles, graciously yet slyly, "My pleasure. Now, back to the business at hand."
He shifts his focus back on John, "Were you aware of any Salubri in Dubai, John?"
John dryly nods, "Yeah, I knew of a few. They sent a delegation to meet with Prince Angela. I think they wanted a place in her Court, but all hell broke loose when the SI raided Dubai and...yeah. So much for that, I guess."
John rubs the back of his neck and sighs, "So, yeah, there were a few. I never met any of 'em, but I know they got 3 eyes and all that. Pretty freaky-looking, but harmless and nice, if a little too peaceful for their own good. They're a dying Clan, anyway."
Seth takes it all in, "Interesting. Anyway, as I said, a Salubri from Dubai contacted me. He wants to talk."
John shrugs a shoulder, "What's this got to do with us?"
Svetlana remains silent.
Seth replies, "That's the interesting thing. He...wanted to speak to someone who would provide closure for a certain matter."
John is all ears now, "Go on, go on."
Svetlana leans forward, intrigued.
Seth elaborates, "He was pretty vague in his letter, but it turns out he witnessed...something a few years back. He wants to speak to someone about it."
Svetlana interjects, "That is very vague." She has an intrigued yet concerned look on her face.
Seth concurs with a small chuckle, "Yeah. He requested a Kindred who used to live in Dubai, and, well...I thought of you, Svetlana."
Svetlana gasps and looks to her Sire for guidance, "You want me to go to Dubai to meet a Salubri? But, I have--"
John holds up his hand, "Look, Seth, she's not too interested. Why can't I go?"
Seth turns to the Assamite, "Because I have more work for you. Speaking of, did you find anything interesting about our elusive Caitiff racecar driver last night, hmm?"
John nods, "Yeah. I actually got 'em to speak to me. It's nothing much to go on, but N0S4A2 doesn't like being followed and they sure as hell don't like anyone snooping around their stuff, either."
Seth smiles, but there's no warmth behind it, "Well, that's good to hear, John. Really. I knew you'd come through."
John scratches his nose, "So, what do you want me to do?"
Seth explains, "Certain arrivals in this city have set off alarm bells, especially those coming from nearby, if you catch my drift."
Svetlana is listening, but says nothing.
Seth goes on, "Word on the street is that they're Israeli intelligence. Mossad, I think. Which means they're likely with the SI and have very...recent knowledge of the events that transpired in Dubai."
John replies, "Well, we don't want that. Especially after Dubai."
Seth avoids eye contact, "Indeed, indeed. A repeat of Dubai would be catastrophic for all Kindred. Just...look around, John. Ask around the seedier parts of this city, if...you're up to it, heh."
John remains composed, "Yeah, sure."
The Typhonist turns his attention to Svetlana, "And, you...Svetlana. Ready to return to Dubai?"
Svetlana hesitates, "Uh...I cannot keep taking nights off from my babysitting work. I have already taken too much time off. People might get suspicious. I can go there, da, but not for long."
She is looking for a compromise.
Seth equably concedes, "Fair enough, Svetlana. You will go with Absalom and Mr. Bean tomorrow night. It's only a 2 hour drive from here."
Svetlana gasps when she hears who Seth will be sending her with.
Seth focuses his gaze on her, "Ah, do not worry. I'm just sending you in for a little meeting. You'll be back here before you know it. Besides, Absalom and his Malkavians also came here after Dubai was attacked, right?"
Svetlana is still apprehensive, but she gives in, "Da, alright, I will go, Seth. But only for 1 night. I have children relying on me."
Seth softly chuckles, "Wow, you really take your job seriously, huh?"
Svetlana sits up, "Of course I do. Their parents are not exactly best at raising them." She speaks her mind on this matter.
Seth nods, "Well, if you say so, Svetlana. But, do not let your guard down while in Dubai, yes? If the forces of the SI are crawling around THIS city, they could be anywhere."
Svetlana gives a confident smile, "Of course not, Seth. I am skilled in combat and will not be caught unawares."
Seth smirks, "Yes, yes, I am sure you are. Those 2 daggers of yours, heh."
John clears his throat, "Will there be anything else?"
Seth shakes his head, gets up, and walks away, "No. Nothing. Thanks for doing this for me. You won't regret this. And, uh, do stay safe out there. Also, may Typhon watch over you both."
John simply says, "Hmm."
Svetlana nods and forces a smile.
So, there's a Salubri in Dubai who wants to talk. About what is anyone's guess. Maybe the Clan wants a seat in the Primogen Council of Al-Kushraf?
Maybe it's something else entirely?
Or, maybe this is just a case of someone who knows something and wants to share.
Either way, Svetlana will find out tomorrow night.
As she and Sire mull things over in their heads, Gallagher, the former Sheriff of Dubai, approaches them.
"As I live and don't breathe. It's the half-Mexican and his Soviet plaything. Or wait, is it the Soviet chick and her half-Mexican boy toy?"
Gallagher has got a nasty grin on his face, he folds his arms as a way to assert dominance.
He goes on, "Heads still screwed on, huh? Shame."
Svetlana shoots him a scathing look, "You are no one, Gallagher. Even Prince Angela said you are nothing...NOTHING but violent and cruel man!"
Gallagher snorts, "Pfft. That's the thing, all of you were too busy sucking that Gangrel's massive tits to even see the shit that was coming. You didn't even care when it finally hit you in the face."
His expression is flat and devoid of any emotion. His eyes are cold and dead, as if his very being, his essence was sucked out a long time ago.
John folds his arms and looks up, "What do you want, Gallagher? You have no authority here."
The Setite spreads his arms, "Ah, I'm just checkin' up on some old friends in this fucking place, Johnny boy. What, a man can't visit his old friends every once in a fucking while?"
He grins and winks at Svetlana, "Hey, Svetlana, I think I saw your younger sister downstairs, offering free blowjobs to anyone who would come down. Want to join her?"
John and Svetlana growl.
Svetlana furrows her brows and snarls, "How dare you."
Her claws pop out of her fingertips.
Gallagher laughs, "Oh, don't even think about it, Russki doll. This is Elysium."
John's temper is flaring, his hands balling up into fists, and his blood boiling, stands up, "Fuck off already! We never got along in Dubai and we never will get along here. Leave. Us. Alone."
Gallagher smirks and holds his hands up, "Yeah, yeah, have fun, you 2. And welcome to Al-Kushraf city. Fuckin' weirdos."
He turns away and goes to bother his fellow Setites about this and that.
John and Svetlana let out a sigh of relief.
Her Sire sits back down, "He's a piece of shit. These...these Setites tend to have a way of getting under people's skin."
Svetlana dryly nods her head, "Hmm, da. I hope he does not cause trouble for us here, John."
John clicks his tongue, "Eh, he has no authority here. Let's hope it stays that way."
"Da."
"So, Svetlana...ready to go back to Dubai tomorrow?"
Svetlana inhales and exhales, "I...cannot say I am looking forward to it, especially since I am going back without you."
John dismissively waves his hand, "Look, I love having you around. But, you're no longer a Fledgling. You're a Neonate- you're gonna need to leave the nest sometime, right?"
He smiles and chuckles, "Besides, it's just a simple meeting with some Salubri guy. They're a weird bunch, but they're harmless. You'll be fine."
"It is not the Salubri I am worried about, John. It is those Malkavians I will be travelling with tomorrow night."
"Ah, I see what you mean. Is Mr. Bean's uh...vision still on your mind?"
Svetlana nervously gulps, "Da. What...what did he see about me, John? I must know, but--"
"A part of you is worried that it might be something really bad? Am I right?"
"Da, John. You are."
John nods, "Look, if the vision is truly a bad one, then...we'll cross that bridge when we get there, alright?"
"Are you sure? Wh--what if--"
A few tears of blood begin to run down her cheeks.
John gently strokes her back, "Hey, hey. I know you're worried, but let's not get ahead of ourselves, OK?"
He adds, "Besides, Mr. Bean is a weird guy, maybe his vision is all just a load of horseshit, heh heh."
Svetlana wipes her sanguine tears and sniffs, "Da. Horse...shit."
John laughs, "There, there, all better?"
She manages a smile, "Da."
"Good. Now, how about a nice, long hug to make up for the one we'll be missing tomorrow, hmm?"
"I would very much like that, John."
The Banu Haqim Sire and the Childe tightly hug each other, a moment shared between the 2 that feels like forever.
John breaks away, "Hey, I know it's been a few years since your Embrace and all, but you are the best damn Childe a guy...a guy like me could ever ask for."
He tucks a lock of her blonde hair behind her ear, "You really are the best among us, Svetlana. Hold on to your Humanity. Do not let the Beast take over. Ever."
Svetlana solemnly nods, "Da. Always. We are the Blade of Haqim. I will not falter. I will not be weak."
She is strong, but there is a hint of vulnerability in her voice.
John tightly squeezes her shoulder, "That's right. You'll do fine tomorrow night, Svetlana. Take your daggers in case you run into trouble."
"Da, and John?" She has an expectant look in her green eyes.
John understands, "Ah, yes. I made a promise and I intend to keep it. Once we find someone for you to Diablerize, I will let you do it."
"Do you really mean that, John?"
He places his hands on her shoulders, "Of course I do. Diablerie is in our Blood, Svetlana. It's who we are as Banu Haqim. Some shy away from it, but I say that we embrace it."
Svetlana is elated, "You do? Truly? I--"
He cuts her off, "Don't worry, you'll be ready soon enough. And I promise you: it will be an unforgettable experience. Your 1st ever taste of another Kindred's Vitae."
Svetlana's eyes light up, "I am looking forward to that night, John."
"As am I, Svetlana. As am I. Now, c'mon, let's get outta here. I still have to get a SIM card for my phone. You did yours yet?"
"Da, finished. We...should keep in touch, no?"
"We'll keep it limited. With the SI listening in on everything, I don't want them knowing what we're up to."
"Hmm, true, true."
Another power cut hits as the 2 Assamites wait for the elevator to arrive.
Tommy loudly remarks, "Aye, the leccy is all over the gaffe tonight!"
Svetlana is getting tired of these power cuts, "What is the issue?"
They wait a few more minutes for the elevator to arrive. When the elevator door opens, they step in and prepare for the long descent.
At the lobby area, Absalom and Mr. Bean agree to pick Svetlana up at Elysium. For whatever, reason, she doesn't want either of them knowing where her Haven is.
Mr. Bean just won't take his eyes off her, it's like he's so fascinated by her, but...what is the nature of his fascination?
John says goodbye to Absalom and Mr. Bean, then tells Svetlana he'll be waiting for her in the parking lot.
"Da, I will come. Just give me 1 moment."
Absalom regards the Assamite Neonate with his startlingly cold, startlingly blue eyes.
Svetlana feels nervous under his gaze, so she politely says, "It is very nice to see you again, Mr. Absalom."
"You are too kind. It is always my pleasure, Childe," the Elder Lunatic replies.
Mr. Bean gets jittery and rubs his hands together, "Road trip! Road trip! Yay! I can't wait--I can't wait to get to know you better, Assamite."
Svetlana feels really taken aback by Mr. Bean's frequent fidgeting.
Absalom places a hand on his shoulder and tells Svetlana, "Understand that his visions overwhelm him at times. I try my best to calm him, but sometimes even I cannot help him."
The Malkavian Elder adds, "Sometimes he needs to...let go. Just go with the flow, as they say. It's not always a good thing, though."
Mr. Bean chimes in, "Yeah, yeah, not always a good thing, hahaha!"
Svetlana attempts to try her luck, "What was the nature of your vision, Mr. Bean?"
Mr. Bean adamantly shakes his head like a child who's just been told he's not allowed to have dessert, "No, no, I can't tell you that yet. It's...classified! Yeah, classified!"
He adds, "Not until the right time. The right time. Yeah, you--you'll see, hehehe."
Absalom curtly nods, "As he said. We're sorry. Then again, it could very well be nothing, Childe."
The Assamite nervously nods, "Well, I understand, I understand. Thank you. Stay well, Mr. Bean."
Absalom is very thankful to Svetlana for not trying to dig too deep into the matter. Mr. Bean flashes the Assamite a mischievous grin and gives her a double thumbs-up.
The 2 Malks leave the place via the main entrance.
Svetlana follows John into the parking lot.
John reassuringly says, "Hey, don't worry. You'll do great tomorrow night. You uh...you handled yourself pretty well tonight, huh?"
Svetlana isn't so sure, "Hmm. Sebastian will continue to be terrible person, John."
John raises his eyebrows, "Well, there's not much we can do about it. Believe me, I'd love to--"
"Maybe we should Diablerize him!" Svetlana suggests, her tone is very cold and serious.
"Whoa, whoa, whoa, slow down, Svetlana. Look, don't let it get to you, alright? The guy is just a jackass. Besides, I'LL DECIDE on who you Diablerize, OK?"
Svetlana concedes with a curt nod of the head.
At Seth's Haven, a few hours later...
The lights are dim, as always. Edwin does some light cleaning of the shelves, a little dusting here and there.
He hears footsteps approaching, and turns around to see who it is.
It's Seth, with Gallagher following in tow.
Edwin smiles and puts down the feather duster, "Oh, hello, sir. I was just doing some light cleaning around the house."
Seth smiles, "How very kind of you, Edwin. I appreciate it."
Gallagher snort-chuckles, "Hey, put on a French maid costume when doing it, hahahaha!"
Edwin maintains his composure, "No, I...I prefer to do things properly."
Gallagher is about to respond, but Seth interjects, "That's enough, Gallagher. Edwin, leave us. Thank you."
The Ghoul picks up the feather duster, "Of course, sir. See you later." He leaves the living room.
Seth and Gallagher stand there, in silence, for a few seconds.
The former Sheriff of Dubai smirks, "Ah, so, how's everything going? According to plan I assume?"
Seth plainly nods and invites his guest to take a seat, "Of course. Sit, Gallagher."
Gallagher grunts, "Sure. I ain't gonna say no to a drink, either."
Seth smirks and calls his Ghoul back, "Edwin!"
He comes briskly walking, head lowered in reverence, "Sir?"
Seth lazily motions, "A drink for my friend here. I wouldn't say no to a drink, too. You know where it is."
Edwin returns with a tray, 2 delmonico glasses, and a wine bottle filled with blood. Human blood.
Seth leans forward and pours the blood into the 2 glasses, "Here you go." He hands 1 glass to Gallagher, while keeping the other for himself.
Gallagher inspects the blood and crassly asks, "So, this from that cult of yours, Seth?"
Seth remains unfazed, "Of course. The devotees themselves give their blood, willingly, without any coercion whatsoever." He speaks of his cult's devotion to Typhon (and to himself) with pride.
Gallagher takes a sip, "Hmm. Tastes good. And strong. Jesus, what ARE you feeding them down there, huh?"
Seth takes a small sip of his devotees' blood, "We grow our own food, Gallagher. We are completely self-sufficient. That's the way of the Serpent." He takes another sip.
He adds, "Anything else on your mind, hmm?"
Gallagher reaches forward and pours himself some more of the blood, "Nah, just a little bored, that's all. Boring in here, boring outside." He sighs. He has a look in his eyes. It's a look that doesn't seem entirely his.
Seth narrows his eyes, "Once a Sheriff, always a Sheriff, huh?"
Gallagher grunts, "Fuck. Yeah, something like that. No action's making me bored, that's for sure. That's why I'm here."
Seth smiles, "Well, don't worry. Action is coming."
Gallagher's eyes light up, "Ah, a little surprise, hmm?"
"Yes, something like that. You know that you can always come to me with any questions you might have, Gallagher. I am more than willing to help...counsel you."
Gallagher sarcastically asks, "What, like a fuckin' therapist?"
Seth shakes his head, "I offer something far more valuable than those...people. You know who is in this room with you right now, Gallagher?"
The former Sheriff of Dubai narrows his eyes, "The High Priest of this Domain? A leader of a massive cult right in this city?" He tries to mask his confusion with sarcasm. It doesn't work.
"Exactly. My followers trust me. They know that I'm the best at what I do. They know that I am the true voice and conduit of Typhon."
"So you've said. What's the whole deal with your uh...cult anyway? I--I mean, is it even a cult?"
Seth answers, "It doesn't matter what label a bunch of petty and pathetic mortals have for it. Let's just say that they are devoted to the true cause, and have been for years."
"And, what cause is that?"
Seth chuckles and doesn't answer, choosing to maintain the mystery surrounding his followers.
"They trust me, Gallagher. They would not blindly follow a false prophet, a false teacher."
Gallagher snorts, "Really? You, Seth Steale, the real effin' deal, huh?"
Seth spreads his arms out, blood sloshing about in the glass, "Of course. I have sacrificed a lot to get to where I am right now, Gallagher. I have done things...things you cannot even begin to comprehend."
"Yeah, yeah. And, what sacrifices have you made, exactly, hmm?"
Seth is quiet. He drinks from his glass of blood.
Seth responds with a question of his own, "I sense you're troubled, Gallagher. I sense you're troubled about something that's not on the surface. What's on your mind, old friend?"
Gallagher sighs, "Oh, what's on MY mind, huh?! Well, for starters, those 2 fucking Assamites!"
He has a wild and unhinged look on his face.
Seth calms his buddy down, "Easy, Gallagher. Easy. What is it about them that...vexes you so much?"
Gallagher growls, "They shouldn't exist! If Angela had let me do my job, maybe, just MAYBE, we wouldn't have this problem! But no. She wanted to be some 'benevolent Prince' and let the 2 of 'em off the hook. And, now, look where it got us!"
Seth indifferently says, "We cannot change the past. John and Svetlana may still be of some use to us."
Gallagher guzzles down the blood in his glass, "Yeah, and then, what? What happens when they get in our way? When they try and take our hard-earned territory? Huh?!"
Seth takes a sip of his glass of blood, "Gallagher, relax. It won't come to that."
Gallagher points out, "Yeah, well, those Hunters you sent after 'em clearly fucking failed, so--"
Seth calmly takes another sip of the blood, "It was a test, Gallagher. They passed. It doesn't mean they'll pass the next ones I have in store for them."
"Jesus, Seth. Don't tell me that you're throw more at those 2! For what, exactly?"
Seth has a smirk on his face, "Don't worry, old friend. I have everything under control." There is a cool confidence in the High Priest's tone.
He goes back to the matter at hand, "Something troubles you. It's not physical, it's not mental, either. No, it's...spiritual in nature, isn't it?"
Gallagher roughly sighs and looks to the side, avoiding eye contact with Seth. He doesn't say a word, but he doesn't have to. Seth reads him like a book.
Seth adds, "I have sensed it, Gallagher. You want to rebuild your connection with Typhon, don't you?"
Gallagher responds, "I wanna rebuild my fist's connection with somebody's fucking face, b--but yeah, I...I wanna do that, too. I wanna get back in touch with the big Serpent, y'know?"
He looks back at Seth, a hint of desperation in his eyes, "You said you'd be able to help me with questions of a spiritual nature?"
Seth graciously nods in the affirmative, "Always, my friend. Always. You, like me, are a Follower of Set. We are one and the same. I will be more than pleased to help you; nothing would bring me greater joy."
Gallagher exhales a long breath and leans back on the sofa, "That's good. That's real good. After--After I um...got pulled back from the Wassail, things were...different for me, y'know?"
Seth suggests, "Why don't we start at the very beginning, hmm? It would be good to go over things, again."
Gallagher replies, "I guess. Like what, for example?"
Seth calmly replies, "I am sure you have been having a hard time keeping yourself centered."
"Yeah, I guess."
Seth stands up and rifles through some papers on a side table near a window, "Here, take a look at this."
He hands Gallagher what looks like a thank-you note.
Gallagher perches an eyebrow, confused, "A thank-you note?"
Seth explains, "It came with the blood you're enjoying, Gallagher. A devotee at the compound wrote it."
Gallagher reads the note out loud, "'To our esteemed and respected High Priest, Seth Steale. May our path be ever illuminated by the great Apep, and may the Serpent's light be always within us."
He continues, "We offer you this gift of our purified body and soul. This is not an empty gesture, but a sacred pledge to the almighty Typhon and his great High Priest."
Seth adds, "Do you see what she meant?"
Gallagher shakes his head, "Not really."
Seth declares, "She was a poet when she first came to me. She was covered in tattoos and piercings from head to toe. She was as disturbed and...twisted as they come."
He softly laughs, "But now, she has been purified by Typhon. She has been freed from the shackles of modernity, and has found her true self, her true nature, in Apep's light."
He goes on, "We are the Serpent, Gallagher. We are Liberators. Our goals in this world gone astray are many."
Gallagher puts the note on the center table, "And what are you liberating people from?"
Seth plainly says, "The shackles of modernity. All this excess, this tolerance, this...notion of Humanity."
"Really? All of that? Jesus, Seth, you've uh...you've got your work cut out for you, huh?"
Seth smiles and slyly responds, "With Typhon's grace, I persist and will continue to persist until the final night."
Gallagher sighs, "And, what's next for us, eh? How long are you planning to maintain the status quo in this city? The way things are going, it won't be long until someone comes knocking."
Seth shrugs, "Don't worry. A change is coming, Gallagher. Do you remember what I promised you?"
"A twofold restoration."
"Exactly. Have faith that everything will work out well in the end. Have faith that we will take what belongs to us, and that we will see a new era in this land."
Gallagher has an uneasy look on his face, "Jesus, Seth. I sure hope you're right."
"Has Typhon ever let you down, hmm? Has Typhon ever failed you in your hour of need?"
Gallagher thoughtfully nods, a distant look on his face, "No. No. But...that's not really the point, is it?"
Seth counters, "And, what is 'the point', my friend?"
Gallagher angrily grunts, "I don't know, man! I...don't...know."
Seth offers more blood to his guest, "Easy now. Easy. Let's go back to what we were talking about. Why are you struggling so much with your faith, hmm?"
"A LOT of reasons. After that Gangrel Aussie bitch gave me the boot, I lost myself."
He goes on, "I tried everything to feel something, to--to feel powerful again. The worst thing is that it didn't fucking matter in the end, y'know?"
The former Sheriff adds, "I beat fuckers to a pulp, I tried 'roids, and all of that shit...I thought it would help, but it didn't."
Seth contemplatively nods, "And, now, all of that is in the past. What are you doing now? Are you feeling it? Do you feel connected to Typhon, to the Serpent?"
Gallagher exhales a deep sigh and vaguely nods his head, "No. Maybe, I--I dunno, man. It's just all a big fucking wreck and all I wanna do is punch, shoot, and kill my way out!"
Seth places his hand on his shoulder, "Calm yourself. It's going to be OK. Tell me a little more about your past, Gallagher."
"You already know, Seth. I don't see the point in--"
Seth raises a finger, "Ah, ah, ah. Maybe there's something we missed the 1st time around, yes?"
Gallagher sighs and begins going over his past.
When he still drew breath, he was a Pinkerton thug. He did it all- union busting, strikebreaking, intimidating workers, and so on.
"I was good, Seth. Real fucking good. I was saving America from proto-commies and shit! But, then, the whole world changed."
Some shady individual, thought to be a Brujah at the time, Embraced Gallagher.
Upon learning of the Clan he initially thought he was Embraced by, Gallagher sought out the truth, and that led him down a very different path.
"I didn't want any part of m--my old life! I wanted to distance myself from my former employers at the Pinkerton Agency and he--help the people I once worked against. It's the only way I thought I could be true to my new Brujah self, y'know?"
Gallagher was a different man. For a moment, it seemed like this Brujah thing made him happy, made him feel like a hero.
"For a moment. It--It didn't fuckin' last, though."
Gallagher's old and brutal life began to creep up on him. His past caught up with him. Things began to unravel and his Sire revealed that the whole thing was a lie.
"I was betrayed. I was betrayed by the very person who had Embraced me!"
The revelation was a shock to the newly-Embraced Setite, a revelation that shook him to the core.
All this time, he had been living as a Brujah, imbibing Brujah ideals, teachings, and ways of Unlife. He had been living a lie.
A farce.
"I--I felt so...so broken. It was like I lost everything at once. I lost my shit when he told me that it was all some elaborate Setite trick. That I was some fucked-up actor, doing all this shit for kicks."
Seth calmly replies, "I understand how that must have felt for you, Gallagher."
Gallagher nods his head, a single bloody tear running down his cheek, "It felt like I was being played for some kind of fool."
Gallagher lost his shit and brutally beat his Sire and sent him into a Torpor from which he still hasn't woken up from.
He went on, "I was so angry, so FURIOUS! I lost control and acted on instinct. It was an instinct I've never had before, and, it--it scared the shit outta me, a--and everyone around me!"
He even turned against the Brujah who he had developed close friendships with. He not only reverted back to his old Pinkerton ways, he doubled down.
Furiously. Violently.
"I went around the streets, beating and killing anyone who needed a good beating or some killing...or destroying. I was out of control, but I...loved every goddamn second of it."
Seth nods along, remaining composed and neutral, "Go on."
Gallagher goes on, "I was out in the middle of nowhere, trying to figure out what to do with all the bodies...and I heard this noise."
The lover of Gallagher's Sire had called a Blood Hunt on him.
"I was cornered, but it was OK. I could do it, I knew I could do it. I had a knife in my hand, and a stake in the other. But...something happened."
As he was about to stab the lover of his Sire, thundering words echoed in his mind: "I have a plan and a purpose for you. Far from these shores. Far from these lands."
Gallagher fought off those who would seek to destroy him. He went into hiding for a few years and eventually decided to try his luck far from his current shores.
That's how he'd eventually land up in the UAE. Prince Angela, the Dove Prince, was in need of a Sheriff for her Domain of Dubai, and so he took the job.
"And, there I was. I was the Sheriff. The fuckin' Sheriff."
"The Sheriff of Dubai."
"Yeah. That's what they called me, Seth. That's...what they called me."
Seth observes, "Yet, it didn't work out as planned?"
As Sheriff under the Praxis of Prince Angela Whiteford, Gallagher was vicious and violent.
The Gangrel Prince would have a hard time keeping him under control. She had the patience of saints and saw the good in everyone, even in a creature as repulsive as Gallagher.
The rest of this man's story intersects with Svetlana's Embrace, and is best kept for another night.
Gallagher even confesses to beating his mortal girlfriend, a 40-something from Saudi Arabia, so badly that she's currently in a coma.
"I uh...I hit her. So fuckin' hard, man. It's like the Beast, it just took over--"
By the end of this pseudo-counselling session, Seth recommends that Gallagher practices mindfulness.
Yep, that's it.
The High Priest finally says, "When you are ready to rededicate your Unlife to Typhon, come to the compound and we'll continue. For now, stay well, Gallagher."
The former Sheriff nods and quietly leaves Seth's Haven.
In lieu of actual solutions, all that Seth offers is obscurantist woo-woo and quasi-religious blather. But, what can be expected of a literal cult leader?
Nothing.
Back in his place, Seth mulls over all the things he has just learned. He is confident that his grand and great plan will come to fruition. He can't wait.
Edwin raps his knuckles on the door, "Sir? Sir? Mr. Seth? Are you in there?"
"Of course. Where else would I be?"
Edwin lowers his head, "Apologies, sir. Sometimes it is quite hard to see with all this low lighting."
"Hmm. I can't help it."
"Of course, sir. The uh...Hunter-net.org forums are abuzz with chatter. And you have a few messages. I didn't open them, s--sir."
Seth dryly says, "I'll need some time alone, to meditate on all that has been said. But, thank you, Edwin. Get the computer ready and wait."
"Of course, sir. As always, I will be here for you when you need me."
Seth lets out a small laugh, "Yes, Edwin. You will be."
The Ghoul scurries off to do as his Domitor has told him.
40 or so minutes later...
Seth sits in front of the computer, squinting at the dim screen. He logs in to his special Hunter-net.org account.
USERNAME: ScalyHand06
PASSWORD: Typhon2468
Wow, what a...strong password!
The High Priest notices a notification: "1 New Message(s) from FRH05."
The message from this person reads: "So, you're the one we should be thanking for helping us out with the leeches and rots in Dubai? What kind of a name is ScalyHand06, anyway?"
FRH05 adds: "Anyways, your reputation on this website precedes you. Your expertise is very much appreciated, and your assistance in the matter was truly invaluable. Thank you."
Seth writes back: "Happy to help. What do you want, FRH05?"
FRH05: "You're still in the UAE, correct?"
ScalyHand06: "You do know about Rule 1, correct?"
FRH05: "I have all 4 Rules memorized. You don't have to remind me."
Seth snarkily types back: "Good for you."
FRH05: "We need a favor. We're ready to bring the Reckoning to the other parts of the UAE. After Dubai, Al-Kushraf is a good place to start."
ScalyHand06: "A wise choice, I suppose. Why not Abu Dhabi?"
FRH05: "Because I feel a dark and foreboding cloud, a barrier of sorts, hanging over that city. And I don't feel good about what will happen if we go there."
Seth has a wry smile on his face: "Interesting. What makes you say that?"
FRH05: "A few members of this site haven't logged in for weeks. They last said they were going to Abu Dhabi, but I fear the worst has happened to them."
ScalyHand06: "Dead?"
FRH05: "Or worse. Al-Kushraf, however, seems to be free of any sort of supernatural maleficence."
ScalyHand06: "I see. So, you were the one who acted on the information I provided, yes?"
FRH05: "Yes. I led the raid on Dubai and cleansed it of all that is vile, vicious, and unclean."
Seth nods, approvingly: "Well done, FRH05. Well done, indeed. So, what are you proposing now?"
FRH05: "You help us with the cleansing of Al-Kushraf, and we'll owe you one."
ScalyHand06: "A tall order. What kind of a favor would you owe me, anyway? Hmm?"
FRH05: "We're Imbued, but we know how the world works. Favors are the currency of this world. We'll call in a favor to you whenever you need it."
ScalyHand06: "Interesting. I like that. How many are we talking about here?"
FRH05: "How many what?"
ScalyHand06: "How many people do you have under your command or however you usually organize yourselves?"
FRH05: "Enough to put the fear of gods into the rots and leeches."
Seth softly chuckles: "Wow, that many, huh?"
FRH05: "After DXB, many are eager to strike back, to take back what was taken from them. We have the power and the numbers. We just need the expertise."
Seth nods: "OK. OK. I can respect that. What kind of expertise do you require?"
FRH05: "On this website, you have a reputation as someone who knows quite a bit about the supernatural and other things. You are familiar with the supernatural, yes?"
ScalyHand06: "Of course. I have more knowledge about it than any other person on the planet."
FRH05: "Spare me the ego trip, ScalyHand06. Can you help us or not?"
ScalyHand06: "Yes, but Al-Kushraf is a lot more complicated than Dubai. It's not an simple spider's web; there are a few major strands, and 100s of smaller, more intricate ones."
FRH05: "That is why we need your expertise."
Seth thinks it over and types back: "Fair enough, you did quite a decent job on clearing DXB out, but I understand a few of them got away. Care to elaborate?"
FRH05: "NO."
Seth shakes his head and takes a few moments to look away from the computer screen. He blinks a few times and looks back at the screen.
FRH05: "If you agree, we will make it worth your while."
ScalyHand06: "Deal. But, you don't move a single inch in Al-Kushraf city without consulting me first. Understood?"
FRH05: "Of course. You are the expert here."
Seth has a smile on his face: "Very good, FRH05. I am looking forward to working with you. Again."
FRH05: "Likewise, ScalyHand06. A personal question, if you don't mind?"
Seth rolls his eyes: "Shoot."
FRH05: "What was your Imbuing like?"
Seth's hands hover over the keyboard, and he is unable to type anything. He remains motionless for a few seconds.
He types back: "You know the rules. No details about personal matters. 'Post only minimal information about yourself.'"
FRH05: "Fine. I suppose that's fair. Sorry."
ScalyHand06: "No issue, why would you ask such a question, anyway?"
FRH05: "Curiosity :-)"
ScalyHand06: "That's what got the cat killed in the end, heh. Just make sure your curiosity doesn't get you killed, FRH05."
FRH05: "We'll see, won't we? Goodbye, ScalyHand06. And thank you for helping us in our...necessary task."
ScalyHand06: "Yes, goodbye, FRH05."
Interesting. MORE Hunter activity in Seth's Domain?
He can't just wind 'em up and unleash them like he did in Dubai. A little tact is required. He's gonna have to keep them on a very short and VERY tight leash.
Seth decides to make a few calls.
His short-term goal is to get rid of the Second Inquisition presence in the UAE. This is a critical component of his long-term plan.
As for the Imbued, he'll have to manage, somehow, to keep them in line and make sure that they don't interfere with or find about about his grandiose plans.
If they do, and Seth doesn't have enough leverage to make sure they're on his side, they could cause a lot of trouble.
That would be most unfortunate.
Chapter 7: Closure
The sun begins its ever so grandiose and glorious ascent above the horizon.
The Kindred in this particular part of the world prepare to be taken in by the slumber of the day. Their bodies, and minds, crave it.
The night before was an eventful one for Svetlana and John.
The beams of that great and fiery star shine down on the city of Al-Kushraf. The city is bathed in this orange-yellow glow, making it look like something out of a movie.
Cars, trucks, and other vehicles zoom around the vast metropolis. Blissfully unaware mortals go about their lives, working, shopping, fucking, and all that other fairly mundane stuff.
The afternoon is brutally hot, and the sky is clear, but there's a light breeze blowing, keeping the air moving.
It's not a perfect day, but it's not a particularly terrible one either.
Just another day in a Middle Eastern metropolis run by self-interested dickheads.
Eventually, the laws of nature dictate that the sun must set, and night must shroud the earth in darkness. The Kindred begin to awaken from the long and peaceful slumber of the day.
Their immortal bodies are still tired, still weary. It will take some time for them to return to their full states of "consciousness".
A gentle and almost playful whisper enters Svetlana's mind, "Setlana...Setlana."
She stirs and lazily opens his eyes. She blinks a few times and looks around to see what (or who) is calling her name.
It's an all-too-familiar voice, a voice that Svetlana has been hearing for quite some time.
But, how? How is it even possible?
Svetlana sits up and rubs her messy face with her cold hand. She elaborately stretches her arms, and then she runs her hands through her long and tangled hair.
She looks around at her surroundings. Yep, same ol' same ol' bedroom.
The Assamite Neonate gets up and picks her clothes out for tonight's "important" job. She's really missing out on her actual job, what with all the errands she runs for Seth and all.
She wonders, sometimes, what will happen when she eventually gets someone to Diablerize.
Will she actually do it? Will she actually go through with it?
John, the other Assamite, is sound asleep in the bed, his body twitching and his alarm clock going off.
He lazily mumbles something to himself and pulls the covers over his cold body, wishing for a few more moments of "sleep".
Svetlana picks out a pair of bootcut jeans, a blouse with geometric patterns, and a pair of ankle boots.
She looks in the mirror and checks herself out. She is, more or less, satisfied with her appearance. She ruffles her blonde hair a few times and shakes her head.
On the way out, she grabs her 2 daggers. She keeps the obsidian dagger in her purse and conceals the ceramic one inside her boot.
Cool!
She has no idea what to expect once back in Dubai, so she figures it's best to be prepared.
Svetlana heads for the front door.
Like many a vampire, she goes through the whole rigmarole of finding a person, making sure they're all secluded and alone, and then, the blood-sucking begins.
Vampires, as a whole, can be either very brutal, or very gentle, depending on their natures (and other factors).
And how much they let their inner Beast dictate their actions.
There are vampires who suck the blood of their victims during sex and other softie-fluffy, intimate ways.
There are others, however, who viciously tear apart the bodies of their victims.
Some drink out of bags meant for blood donations. Others go for little cute kittens and other pets. Some drink out of little cartons, like you'd drink orange juice or something.
Svetlana stalks the dark nights for her prey, making use of her Obfuscate Discipline (when the need calls for it, that is).
She does it like a true Banu Haqim: silent, subtle, and quick. Her green eyes glow in the darkness. It is truly an eerie sight.
She has hunted all kinds of prey during her Unlife: people who she finds out on the street, people who are asleep, drunkards tumbling out of a bar, and so on.
It doesn't matter what their circumstances are, she'll make sure that their blood keeps her sated. It's survival. She's been through a lot in the past, so it's best to keep a low profile.
The Hunger of the Beast is eternal, it can only be sated for a moment, temporarily. Then it comes back. Always. It comes back. And it grows. It grows.
Once Svetlana has done what she needs to do to sate her eternal Hunger, she makes her way to Elysium to meet with Absalom and Mr. Bean.
She would've preferred to travel with somebody else, because those 2 Malkavians creep her out to no end. Especially Absalom. His very presence can be construed as terrifying.
The Assamite feels uncomfortable and somewhat threatened whenever he looks at her with those cold and calculating eyes. Like she's some specimen or something.
As if she's being studied and observed for future...something.
Mr. Bean is sitting in the driver's seat of a simple rented car with tinted windows. The car is white and looks very ordinary, much like most vehicles that people rent. Or steal. Or both.
Mr. Bean is wearing exactly what he wore last night. It's a good thing vampires can't smell or anything. Otherwise, this situation would be downright gross.
It's a 2 hour drive from Al-Kushraf to Dubai, so the Assamite figures that the sooner they get there, the better.
Absalom sits in the front, which means that Svetlana has the entire backseat to herself. It's not so bad, to be honest. It's better than sitting next to one of them, and listening to whatever insane babble comes out of their mouths.
Svetlana looks out of the car window and sighs.
Absalom looks over his shoulder, "Ready?"
Svetlana nods, "Da. Let us go...back to Dubai."
Mr. Bean starts the car up and giggles, "Oooooh, road trip! Hey, how about we uh...play a game?"
"Nyet."
Absalom calmly tells Mr. Bean, "It would be wise for you to play the game where you keep your hands on the steering wheel and eyes on the road. I would be quite distraught if something unfortunate happened, wouldn't you say, Svetlana?"
"Da. That would be bad, very bad."
Mr. Bean just shrugs, "Ah well, more for me I guess!"
This is gonna be an...interesting drive.
Absalom looks outside at the city passing by in a blur. He makes some sort of "tick tick" sound with his mouth and nods to himself. It's clear that something is on his mind.
Something or the other is ALWAYS on the mind of a Malkavian.
Absalom breaks the awkward silence, "Did you know that Mr. Bean here was living as a Caitiff till I discovered him and took him in, Svetlana?"
Svetlana raises her eyebrows, "Oh? How did you discover him?"
Mr. Bean pipes up, "He--he's like a fucking master at the Auspex Discipline, Svetlana! That's how he was able to see through me, li--like an x-ray machine!"
He pauses and then says, "X-ray machines!" He snort-giggles, "Yes, Absalom is like an x-ray machine, Svetlana!"
Absalom continues, "I noticed his Malkavian heritage. He was floundering amongst the Clanless, lost and without purpose. He didn't even know his true Clan, which was...disappointing."
Absalom chuckles, "But, do not underestimate him. Mr. Bean is very clever, he is very, very clever. He sees things, Svetlana. It overwhelms him at times, but that is how his Malkavian mind works."
Mr. Bean grins from ear to ear, "Yesss...ohhh, yessss. It is all there, it's all up there." He makes a clicking sound and points at Svetlana. He smiles a knowing smile.
Svetlana looks at him through the rearview mirror, "I see, how...interesting." She sounds mildly annoyed. And a little freaked out, to boot.
Mr. Bean takes a sharp right turn and slows down a bit.
The road leading into Dubai is, by far, the busiest. There's a long line of traffic up ahead.
Svetlana breaks the tense silence, "What were you in mortal life, Mr. Bean?"
He gladly answers, "A worship leader at one of the largest Pentecostal churches in Al-Kushraf city!"
He pulls out his phone from his pants, "It was great, it really was. The whole congregation adored me, and I adored them."
Absalom merely looks out the window, not paying much attention to the conversation.
"Do you miss it?" Svetlana asks, her curiosity piqued.
"The worship or the people?" Mr. Bean asks.
She answers, "Both?"
Mr. Bean pulls up a video and hands the phone to Svetlana, "Here, it's mortal me."
He looks the same as he does now, except his hair isn't bleached in the video and his clothes are not all over the place.
In the video, he jumps up and down, guitar in hand, and belts out lyrics. There's an energy, a sparkle, and a lightness in his voice. He looks genuinely happy and at ease with the world.
"Are you ready, church? Ready to trade in your sorrows? Ready to trade in your sickness? Ready to trade in your shame? Ready to lay it all down for the JOY OF THE LORD?"
The congregation responds with a loud and resounding "AMEN!"
The Assamite gives the scratched phone back, "Do you still do singing and all?"
Absalom stifles a chuckle.
Mr. Bean's eyes shift from side-to-side, "No, not really. I'm on sabbatical from it."
He chuckles and continues, "I--I mean, after I went 'missing' and all, they found someone to replace me. Eventually, heh."
Svetlana furrows her brows, "'Missing'?"
Absalom explains, "Traffic is moving. I will tell her. It would appear that Mr. Bean's Sire wiped his mind, leaving only memories of a vague nature and purpose in his Unlife."
He rests his cheek on his palm, "But, I suspect that the process went far more awry than his Sire intended. There were...unforeseen consequences, shall we say."
Svetlana inquires, "Do you know who Mr. Bean's Sire is?"
Absalom responds, "No. We are still looking for them, but I am not optimistic about finding them anytime soon."
"How did you discover him?" Svetlana asks, her green eyes curious, but also confused.
"I went to where the Caitiff are known to...gather themselves. I used my Auspex Discipline to sift through all the...Trash there, and found this gem."
Svetlana raises her eyebrows, "All Caitiff are garbage?"
Absalom blandly replies, "They are unpredictable and dangerous, Svetlana. Abandoned by their Sires, they flounder about and act like unruly and barbaric fools."
Mr. Bean nods along, "Yeah, I'm glad I'm out of that Caitiff cesspool, lemme tell ya that much!"
Absalom adds, "They do not care to develop or use their Disciplines; instead, they go about their Unlives like the barbarians and savages they are. They do not show an inkling of interest in determining their Clan."
Absalom has a bitter, and yet, thoughtful look on his face, "These degenerate vagabonds of our kind do not appreciate the gifts we have been given by Caine. Instead, they waste it on..."
He catches himself mid-rant and sighs deeply, "As long as they do not cross paths with us or other Kindred, it does not concern us much. Still, I am glad to have found a Seer amongst the Caitiff."
Absalom has an almost mischievous smile on his face, "Enough about that. How are you keeping, Svetlana?"
Svetlana says, "Fine, but I do not share in your disliking of Caitiff. I think you fear something which you do not know, Absalom. You fear that, perhaps, the Caitiff are stronger and wiser than you."
Absalom lightly scoffs, "I have walked this planet for centuries, Saracen. Very little, if anything at all, can intimidate or disturb me anymore. It is quite possible that your experiences are very limited to that which you know and that which you alone have experienced."
The hot wind blows his long hair as the car chugs along, "Soon, you will come to the realization that, at times, things are not as they appear to be, Childe of John."
Svetlana coolly remarks, "And I suspect you have not experienced anything like that which I have. And, I think that you DO fear the unknown, Absalom. That which you cannot control scares you, no?"
Absalom maintains his composure, "And I suspect you are misinterpreting the intent and the context of my words, Childe of John. As for 'fear', that is for mortals who lack our powers. Do not confuse a lack of 'fear' for a lack of vigilance and caution."
Svetlana passive-aggressively says, "I will keep in mind, da."
Mr. Bean repeats, "Da. Haha! You speak Russian, right?"
Svetlana plainly nods, "I also speak English, Ukrainian, and very little of Arabic."
Absalom changes the topic, "Do you have any idea who this Salubri is? Did Seth tell you any more about him?"
She answers, "No, but it seems we will soon meet this person. I was hoping he would tell you more."
Absalom says, "Hmm, then he told me what he told you."
Svetlana muses, "Perhaps Salubri Clan wants to be part of Al-Kushraf city's Primogen Council? They sent delegation to Dubai, but after the attacks...they also fled."
"A fair point, I suppose," the Elder Malkavian says.
Mr. Bean cuts in, "So, do those Salubri, like, have 3 eyes and shit?"
Absalom nods, "Yes, Mr. Bean. Their 3rd eye is not for show, however. They are very capable, and, at times, their abilities can rival the mightiest of Cainites."
"I have only heard small stories about Saulot's Progeny," the Assamite comments.
Mr. Bean keeps his hand on the steering wheel. On occasion, he looks at the rearview mirror and flashes Svetlana a goofy smile.
Absalom has a distant look on his face, the wind continually blowing his long hair all around.
Svetlana inquires, "How have Salubri been treated in this land?"
Absalom grimly answers, "They have been Hunted down, especially by you Assamites, for their Vitae. It is said to be sweeter than honey. However, it is a great taboo to commit Diablerie."
A mischievous smile forms on his face, "This taboo, like most things, can be circumvented, as you Banu Haqim are no doubt aware."
Svetlana twitches when she hears that.
The Elder leans back on the headrest and closes his eyes for a few moments.
The remainder of the drive to The City of Gold pendulums between awkward silence and weird conversations.
The closer to the city they get, the more and more traffic they have to deal with. There are roadside checkpoints set up here and there. A few armored vehicles zoom by, and so does a lot of other traffic.
Svetlana asks where they're supposed to meet this Salubri.
Absalom dryly answers, "Near the vigil to the victims of the Al-Jamal Residential Tower explosion."
Svetlana audibly gasps when she hears those words.
That...that place. That place was where it all began for her.
Mr. Bean loudly comments, "Damn! I--I heard the whole thing went BOOM! BLAM! I uh...I can't believe it, man!"
Svetlana starts to shake and nervously says, "I...I was there."
She closes her eyes and tries to take some deep breaths to calm herself down, but it doesn't work.
Mr. Bean, ever inquisitive, asks, "What do you mean by that?"
Svetlana's lips quiver, a look of dread and anxiety forms on her face. She can't find the words. Her mouth just opens and closes, and nothing comes out.
Tears of blood begin to roll down her cheeks. She wipes them away. No. Not here.
Not now.
Absalom narrows an eye at her, "Ah, yes...I see."
Many minutes later...
Svetlana musters up the courage to walk towards the vigil. Her mind is a mess. It's a swirl of emotions, memories, and regrets. It's like she's being bombarded by images from the past, and it's overwhelming.
So much so, that she nearly stumbles.
A woman in a burqa notices this and comes to the Assamite's aid.
Svetlana holds tightly onto the woman, but doesn't look at her. She can't. She can't look at anyone or anything right now.
Her body shakes. Her teeth chatter.
The woman inquires, "Are you OK?"
Svetlana shakily nods, "Da. It has been, for me, long night."
The woman says a few niceties in Arabic and walks off. Svetlana can't help but notice how the woman's hands felt. Cold. Cold and dead. Just like hers.
Could it be?
Maybe it's just a chilly night?
The Banu Haqim Neonate approaches the vigil to the victims of the Al-Jamal Residential Tower (AJRT) explosion.
The vigil is a solemn and reverent place, a tribute to the countless lives lost during the terrible and senseless tragedy. Flowers, teddy bears, cards, candles, and all kinds of other tokens of affection are strewn across the grounds. It's almost like a small sea of sorrow.
Since this is a well-lit area, Svetlana holds back her sanguine tears, lest they give her away. She takes a few moments to compose herself and get a hold on her emotions.
It's best if she doesn't make a scene. Or worse, draw any unwanted attention. There's a good chance that the Second Inquisition is still keeping a keen eye on the city.
She runs her fingers on some of the familiar photographs on the wall. She can't bring herself to look at the faces, though.
Some were babysitters, like her. Others were those who had employed her around the time the AJRT exploded.
1 photo is of a middle-aged woman named Fawzia, a single mother of 4 who Svetlana had a good relationship with.
She'd watch Fawzia's small kids every now and then. This was the time when Svetlana was still a mortal, capable of walking under the sun and living a mortal life.
She misses it. Sometimes. When the memories come back. But, she's learning to cope. Somewhat. Mostly.
Then, there's that picture...of that little, sweet, innocent child.
She has a soft, round face, a tad bit freckled, some of her front teeth are missing, and she has a smile that can melt your heart.
Hearts and assorted unicorn stickers are stuck around the photo. Little notes, written by grieving friends and family members, are taped below the picture.
"Little Chloe. We will never forget you. Our bright sunshine, our shining star. Rest in peace."
Svetlana can't help it, she runs to a dark corner and starts crying. Bloody tears. She wipes them away with the back of her sleeve.
"Setlana...Setlana!"
The Assamite looks around, trying to figure out where the voice is coming from.
The odd thing is that's EXACTLY what little Chloe would call Svetlana. She was a British child, 5-years-old, who moved to the UAE with her parents.
The poor girl had trouble with her v's and was always calling her babysitter "Setlana".
She was a lovely little child, albeit, deprived of any genuine love and affection from her hobnobbing Oxfordian parents.
Chloe's parents had been away on another one of their "parties" when the AJRT exploded. She had been left with her sitter, Svetlana, who had come to care for her deeply.
Svetlana gathers herself and looks at the picture of that poor child once more. Her chin-length brown hair and her big, adorable eyes sparkle in the sunlight.
"I--I am sorry, little Chloe."
Svetlana walks away from the vigil and sits down on a bench near a fountain. It's not a particularly fancy or expensive-looking fountain.
After the explosion, people have started to put up small shrines all around the city, in memory of the dead. There are a few flowers, a few lit candles, a few notes, and some toys placed on the ground.
"Setlana!"
Svetlana looks around, head quickly shifting from side to side. It's a quiet, but not too quiet, area. People are still around, but not many.
A man in a dark hoodie jacket and striped Adidas sweatpants takes his seat on the bench, next to her.
The Assamite looks at him, but the top of his head is hidden under the hood, casting a shadow over his face.
"Who are you?" Svetlana asks, her green eyes narrowed.
"Did Seth send you?" he asks, his voice hoarse and gravelly. It sounds like it hasn't been used in a while.
She doesn't know what to say. How does he know Seth? What is his connection to Seth?
Is this the Salubri?
She asks, "You are the Salubri, no?"
He looks around and yanks the hoodie off. The face is of a young, pale-skinned man. His hair is messy and brown, and his eyes are blue.
Even the 3rd eye on top of his forehead is blue. He has a bit of stubble and a few tattoos on his hands.
"Gerald. I--I know you, babysitter."
Svetlana gulps. It can't be. It just can't.
She asks, "I do not know what you mean b--by that??"
Gerald continues, his voice getting hoarser and hoarser, "I uh...ah shit, of all the people they could've sent, they sent...you."
His tone isn't derisive, it's fatigued and resigned. Like he's dealing with something difficult. Something painful.
"What do you mean by that?" the Assamite inquires.
Gerald doesn't respond. He rubs his head and leans forward, resting his elbows on his thighs.
Svetlana can't take her eyes off of his 3rd eye, which is slightly glowing.
She asks again, "What do you mean by that? How do you know me?"
Gerald sighs, "I--I can't believe it. I thought there were no--no survivors."
The Cyclops looks up at her with all 3 of his eyes, "You should've died, Svetlana Bobrov. You should've fuckin' died in that explosion that evening."
He shakes his head, "It--it can't be, how--how did you survive?!"
Svetlana explains, "John, my Sire, he found me. My body was flung out of building, lodged with shards of glass and shrapnel. He took me down into underground area with Abdullah and Embraced me."
She continues, "It was not easy. I was in agony, pain like I had never felt before. It--it was very difficult for me, but, I am glad that he saved me. John saved me."
Gerald sighs, "I'm sorry, Svetlana."
"What are you sorry about?"
Gerald grimly confesses, "I...I'm the reason you're dead now. I'm the reason you're no longer a mortal, I am the reason--"
He gestures to the vigil a few meters in front of them, "--they are all dead. It is ALL my fault."
Svetlana furrows her eyebrows, "N--No, it can't be! What do you mean?"
Gerald shakes his head, "I know you. I used to watch you from my window. The way you handled the children around here, Svetlana. It warmed my dead and shriveled heart."
He clenches his fists and lets out a frustrated and pained cry, "Why didn't you die, damnit?! Why couldn't you have died?!"
The Banu Haqim Neonate's eyes open wide in fear.
The Salubri unclenches his fist and explains, "I made the mistake of making 1 phone call too many."
"I do not understand."
"Let me explain it, then. It's the--it's the least I can do. I owe you that much, Ms. Bobrov."
So, Gerald the Salubri used to a resident of the AJRT. He lived somewhere on the 25th floor (there's a total of 30 floors, with 10 apartment units per floor.)
He used to have a normal Unlife. He was sent along with 2 other Salubri as part of a delegation that wanted to negotiate the terms and conditions for entry into the Council of Prince Angela Whiteford.
Unfortunately, things didn't work out that way, and, in a way, they never would.
Gerald wasn't quite aware of the SI's monitoring of communication networks within the city; he didn't think his phone would be tapped, or that they'd find him and his Clan out, but, it happened.
"The great irony is that...I wasn't even home when they blew the whole fucking place sky high."
The Unit 8211 bastards had traced his number, found his Haven, and set explosives to destroy him and any other vampires supposedly in the building.
They assumed that Gerald was just 1 of many Kindred that were being harbored in the AJRT, so they set the explosives to take the entire structure down.
The Israelis didn't care about the others in the building, of course they wouldn't. They chalked it up as collateral damage, the price of doing righteous war against an immortal enemy.
It's how they have operated and will always operate.
"And, I suppose, they would've destroyed me as well, but, I wasn't in my Haven. I--I had a lot on my mind that night. It--it wasn't a good time, personally."
He had stayed in a friend's Haven when the bombs that the Second Inquisition had planted exploded, taking the entire tower down and killing everyone therein.
"I was the reason they all died, Svetlana. I--I'm the reason little Chloe and the rest of them are dead."
Gerald looks at her with his 3 eyes, all beginning to tear up with blood, "754 people, 307 of them children. 754 innocent mortal lives ended in an instant, because of MY mistakes."
The Assamite doesn't know what to say or how to respond. All that comes out are stammers and gasps of shock and disbelief.
Gerald's voice cracks, "And now, you're one of them. One of us. It--it's my fault. It's all my fault."
Svetlana looks down, processing this new information.
Official news reports say a nasty gas leak caused the explosion. No one would've ever thought it was the Second Inquisition.
How could they?
The Salubri sharply inhales, "The Emirati authorities covered this up quicker than an amateur magician. Fuckers."
"What--what, I--"
Gerald sighs deeply, "I am so sorry, Svetlana. Not a night goes by, not a day goes by where I don't think about that awful, horrible, and terrible thing. The fact that they're all fucking dead, and that I'm still here, is--it's..."
His voice trails off and he starts crying, his sanguine tears flowing freely down his cheeks. All 3 eyes of his blink and he covers his face with his hands.
He continues, "I had to see, I had to see it, I had to come back and see it. I had to see this--this goddamn monument to my fucking sins. This reminder of--of my stupidity and hubris. Of my selfishness."
Gerald springs up, his face and his hands wet with his sanguine tears. He looks at the pictures of the people who had lost their lives.
His hands shake, "I heard about it on the news a few hours later. I knew those SI bastards found me out. I j--just didn't expect them to go to such extremes."
He turns around and looks at Svetlana with a pained expression on his face, "That's when I knew, that's when I knew the only option was to hide. The Salubri abandoned their plans of integrating with your Prince's Court and went underground for the next few years."
He looks down, shame and guilt riddling his pale face.
He looks back up and continues, "And it's all my fault. I'm the reason the Second Inquisition was here, and, I'm the reason why this city is now under their control. I heard about the destruction of the Ferals, I am truly sorry for that."
Svetlana sits there, a look of disbelief on her face, "But--but how? How did you know? How could you have possibly known?"
Gerald sourly answers, "I openly discussed Kindred-related things on the cellphone. I used keywords that they scan for. Now...now I've sworn off electronics completely."
He looks up at the night sky, his tone of voice softening, "The other 2 Salubri I came with left the country a year ago. They're probably ash by now, anyway. I h--hope they are."
Gerald lets out a small chuckle, "We Kindred, we're nothing but trouble wherever we go. Damnation and destruction follows us everywhere. It is what we are."
Svetlana's lips quiver, "But, I--I do not understand, Gerald. I do not understand any of it. Why did you ask for me?"
Gerald responds, "I didn't ask for YOU specifically. In my letter to Mr. Seth, I asked for someone from HIS Clan."
"Why?"
"To confess, Svetlana. I've been carrying this burden with me for as long as you've been a Kindred. I wanted someone from the Ministry to be the recipient of my confession."
"What confession?"
Gerald lets out a pained and resigned sigh, "You know the rest, don't you? I'll be honest, I wasn't expecting you."
He gulps, his eyes squeezed shut, "You know, I memorized every single name and face of every single person who lived in the AJRT. I did it in an effort to assuage my guilt."
He opens his eyes and looks at Svetlana, "It barely worked. The youngest victim was...14-months-old. The oldest was 97-years-old."
He continues, his voice cracking, "I tried to end it all, but I couldn't. My body didn't let me. The Beast...it's a creature dedicated to the preservation of its host and nothing else, really."
Svetlana inquires, "Why did you not say anything sooner? Prince Angela would've listened to you, if you had spoken up, if you had made an effort to plead for her intervention."
Gerald laughs, a maniacal sound coming out of his mouth, "We weren't afraid of that Gangrel, oh no. We were afraid of what her Sheriff, Gallagher, would do if he ever found out."
He proceeds, "We knew he was, and still is, a violent man. We were concerned that maybe he might flay us or decapitate us without the knowledge and permission of Prince Angela."
Svetlana looks down, speechless.
Gerald pats the Assamite on the shoulder, "I am sorry, Svetlana Bobrov, for all the trouble I have brought upon you."
The Salubri sighs, "There are some things which cannot be forgiven. I would understand if you wanted to destroy me right here, right now. I know you conceal a small dagger. Use it. Please."
Gerald continues, "I don't think it'll do any good, but, at least, I won't have to deal with this shit anymore."
Svetlana declines, "No. I cannot. I will not. It is--it is not your fault. It is the fault of those Israeli monsters."
Gerald blankly stares off into the distance, "It is, isn't it?"
Svetlana clarifies, "I cannot Judge you, Gerald. I...cannot."
She looks over her shoulder to see if Absalom is around. She doesn't spot him or Mr. Bean anywhere.
She then turns her attention back to Gerald, "There is much we still have to talk about. I have more questions."
Gerald focuses his attention elsewhere, "I'm sure you do. I will do my utmost to answer them. I have...all the time in the world."
"What do you mean by that?"
"This--this whole Unlife deal, this immortality thing, it's a fucking nightmare."
Svetlana raises her eyebrows, "It is?"
Gerald spits, "Wherever we are in the world, we are trouble, leeching on the kindness and the charity of others, slowly driving everyone around us insane. I hate this."
Svetlana takes a moment to think about what she's just heard. The weight of his words hits her hard.
Vampires sustain themselves on the blood of (mostly) unwilling and unwitting mortals- Kindred are forced to feed off the blood of others in order to survive.
Then again, not feeding means giving in to the Frenzy. Once the last Frenzy, the Wassail, hits, a lot of people tend to get hurt and/or die.
It's not something that can be undone, either. It's permanent, unless certain rites and rituals are enacted.
Svetlana is in no place to judge him, not after what happened to her.
He has already judged himself enough, it would seem. He looks sickly, there are cuts and scratch marks all over his pale body, and his eyes look drained and tired.
He looks like he's not been doing all that well.
The Assamite vaguely asks, "What now?"
"Hmmm?"
"What will you do now?"
"Seeing you here has, in its own weird way, brought me closure. I thought you perished along with all those other unfortunate souls, Svetlana Bobrov."
She blinks, "Closure?"
Gerald smiles sadly, "Yeah. A--a sort of peace of mind, I suppose."
He chuckles, "I suppose I am not the only one who is guilty. Banu Haqim, huh?"
"Da."
Gerald clicks his tongue, "I still have my ways. I sense a lot anguish within you. There is something in your past, your mortal life, that weighs you down. It eats away at your very being, doesn't it?"
Svetlana gets a little defensive, "What do you mean by that?"
Gerald answers, "Your Sire, John, he might be of help. But even he carries his own burdens, and it seems to me that you carry a lot more than he does."
Gerald leans closer to Svetlana, "Allow me, if you wish, to dig a little deeper into your pain. I will look around inside you, and I will give you my perspective. Perhaps we could be of help to each other, Childe of Haqim."
Svetlana doesn't know how to respond.
She tenses her shoulders, "I am not comfortable with such a proposition, Progeny of Saulot. I do not want you looking inside me."
Gerald remains unfazed, "I can sense your hesitation. Allow me to demonstrate something, please."
Gerald looks up and says, "Take a deep breath, Svetlana. Think of the thing that troubles you. It might be hard to do so, but I will help you through it. We'll go as slow as you want. It'll be just fine. I promise."
Svetlana tries to push aside all of the terrible memories that are fighting their way to the surface of her mind.
Especially the memory of that horrid evening when she was just 18-years-old. She tries and tries and tries to push that 1 particular memory back to the darkest depths of her mind, where it has been hiding for all these years.
Svetlana closes her eyes and takes a deep breath. She imagines what that evening was like. She tries to force that terrible memory out of her mind.
"NO! NYET! I CANNOT! NOOOOO!"
Gerald grips her shoulders and focuses his intense gaze on her, "It's OK, Svetlana. It's OK, shhh."
Svetlana cannot do as she's told, she just cannot. Especially not with a 3-eyed vampire staring straight into her very psyche.
She starts crying, sanguine tears running down her cheeks.
The Salubri maintains his tight hold on her, "There, there. Oh my god...I am so sorry. I--I didn't know."
He saw but a glimpse of that grisly evening, but it is enough to shake him and release her from his grasp.
Svetlana quickly wipes away her bloody tears with the her hand. She starts trembling again. She gulps.
Gerald softly speaks up, "I see, now. I am sorry, Svetlana. I don't know what to--to say. I really don't. What was done to you was--was truly vile. There are no other words for--"
He's been through so much, but it's nothing like what this poor woman had been through, an absolute and terrible nightmare that no person on planet Earth should ever have to endure.
Ever.
Svetlana holds up a finger and stops him from saying any more. She just doesn't want to hear it. Not anymore.
"I--I can't, please, Gerald...stop."
Gerald does his best to smile, "That is OK. That is OK."
He nervously pulls her in for a tight and reassuring hug, "Have you spoken to anyone ab--about this?"
"Only to Prince Angela. Nobody else. She knew and understood my pain."
Gerald breaks the hug and holds Svetlana's hands, "You have truly suffered, Svetlana, in ways that are incomprehensible and unimaginable."
Svetlana has a blank look on her face, "Da. It is not something I think of very often. I try to go on with things and--and move on."
He softly smiles, "I am sure that there are people who will tell you that you are making a big deal out of nothing, that you were just lying for attention."
Svetlana remains silent and expressionless.
Gerald continues, "The only thing that you should know is that you are not alone, Svetlana. Your Sire has an obligation to protect you and guide you in this Unlife. He should be with you all the time."
The Banu Haqim Neonate nods along.
She sighs remorsefully, "Da. But you also said he has his own burdens. What do you mean by that? I do not know everything of John's past, but he is not bad man."
Gerald slowly speaks up, "He does have some secrets. Things he has never shared...even with you, Svetlana. Secrets of his own past and whatnot. Secrets that haunt him, like they do me."
"Do you know what they are?"
"Through you, I can spot glimpses, fragments, but nothing concrete. It's hard to explain."
Gerald takes a few moments to organize his thoughts, "But, I know that your Sire's past has shaped the man he has become, and, in turn, it has affected his actions and behavior."
"For better or for the worst?"
"What do you think, Svetlana?"
Svetlana insists, "He is good man, Gerald. In the short time I have know him, I have never seen him do bad or wrong things to other people."
Gerald thoughtfully nods, "I see. Still, it would be best if you got him to open up about his past. You should do likewise--"
Svetlana gasps at the suggestion.
Gerald patiently tells her, "It's only fair. You can't go on like this. The only person you told is ash, scattered across the desert. You NEED to tell someone else, someone you can trust. And who better than your Sire, hmm?"
She nods along.
Gerald continues, "The longer you wait, the more you will begin to harbor resentment towards everyone and everything. You're a good and kind-hearted woman, Svetlana Bobrov."
He pointedly tells her, "Please don't let your burdens corrode that and crush it to dust. You have suffered enough, already."
He smiles, "We all have. We all have."
He gently caresses the Assamite's cheeks, "Svetlana, please understand. I am done with this Unlife, with existing, with...all of it. But you--you still have a chance to make something of it, to do good in this world. Please don't let it go to waste."
Svetlana responds, "How can I do that?"
Gerald explains, "You're a Banu Haqim, aren't you? Judge the unjust, use those daggers of yours to find justice and right the wrongs of the world, Svetlana Bobrov."
"Where would I even start?"
Gerald answers, "The assholes who blew up the AJRT, they're still out there, Svetlana. They're still operating in this goddamn country, waiting for another chance to strike. That's what I've been doing all this time, anyway."
He grits his teeth, "I have been trying to stop them, before they strike again."
"How?"
"I killed a few Israeli hit squads sent after me. After the bombing, they didn't give up. Your Prince was unaware of all of this, but I had no other choice. They came after me again and again."
Svetlana blinks, "You--you have killed them?"
"Yup. They're not ordinary SI, they're high-tech and they KNOW what we are. I'm afraid to say that they might know a lot about you, as well."
The Assamite's eyes widen at the news, "What--what do you mean by that?"
Gerald points out, "Dubai's got surveillance cameras everywhere. Your...re-entry into this city has undoubtedly set off a few alarm bells. You're supposed to be dead, remember? Among the victims of the AJRT explosion."
Svetlana holds her forehead in frustration, "So they will surely be watching me."
She asks, "Do you think they have found the others?"
"They haven't made any moves against the Ministry, so, I doubt they are aware of their presence back in Al-Kushraf. But, they know who YOU are now. It would be best to tread carefully from here on out."
The Banu Haqim Neonate ponders, "Is there--is there something that we can do?"
Gerald shakes his head, "No. All you can do now is...be ready to fight. These Israelis, they're vicious, savage, ruthless, and won't hesitate to make a fucking mess, as you're now well aware."
His tired eyes go over to the vigil, as if to reinforce his point.
The Cyclops pointedly warns her, "They'll kill a building full of innocent mortals to get to 1 vampire, don't think they won't go any lower, either. You need to watch your step, Childe of Haqim."
Svetlana solemnly nods, "Hmm, this is, for me, much to think about. How could they have covered it up for so long? All the news reports say it was gas leak, but I--I did not smell any gas on that evening."
Gerald shakes his head, "Who fucking knows. You know how these Emirati authorities are- they just want big buildings to compensate for their lack of imagination...and taste."
The Salubri adds, "Don't get me started on the structural integrity, heh. They've also had a hard time keeping track of the ever-expanding foreign workforce."
The Salubri shrugs, "This fucking thing goes deep, Svetlana. Almost too deep...all the goddamn way up to the assholes running this shitshow of a city."
Svetlana can only look on as Gerald angrily airs his frustrations, "There's a reason why the AJRT had been put under surveillance by the Israelis in the first place."
"Which was?"
"Foreigners! Americans, Brits, Armenians, Russians, Indians, you get the point. A lotta different nationalities were coming and going outta that place."
"Da, it was very mixed building."
Gerald lets out a long and tired sigh, "Well, is there anything else on your mind? Any more questions, is there something that you need clarification on? Anything, don't hesitate."
He grimly mumbles, "I...uh...don't plan on staying around for too long."
Svetlana thinks for a few moments. Then she looks up at Gerald and asks, "Are all the other Salubri like you?"
The 3rd eye on Gerald's forehead glows. He says, "It depends. Some can be pretty depressed, yeah."
She continues, "Why does 3rd eye glow like that?"
Gerald shrugs, "Dunno. I never bothered to look into it. The thing just happens on its own sometimes, and I just roll with it. I've...never had to worry about that sort of thing. It just does it when it feels like it."
Svetlana is equal parts fascinated, equal parts horrified by the 3rd eye on this guy's forehead. She's also not quite sure if she wants to look at it, either. It's too strange and alien for her to look at.
Too otherworldly and mystical for her liking. Too mystical, even, for someone who is an immortal, blood-drinking creature of the night.
Svetlana queries, "You do not plan on staying for long? Where are you going?"
"Golconda."
"..."
"Home. I'm done with this Unlife, Svetlana. This...bitter Earth. Seeing you here, seeing what you have become, seeing a glimpse of...what you went through when you were 18. It's all too much for me, I'm sorry."
Gerald gives her a quick and sad smile, "I've already been through a lot. I am just...done. It is best for me to be done."
His demeanor, his tone, his everything communicates 1 thing- he has lost all the will to live, in any meaningful capacity.
Svetlana finds it a bit hard to accept this, "I am not sure I agree. You can still do good, no?"
Gerald dryly tells her, "It's what I want, Svetlana. I've made my peace with it. Don't try to talk me down from it."
Svetlana looks a little scared, "What will you do now?"
Gerald sighs, "This might be the last time we talk. If there's anything you wanna say...or do, go right ahead."
The Banu Haqim Neonate embraces the tormented and broken Salubri and cries a few bloody tears into his shoulders. Gerald gently returns the hug and holds her close, tightly and warmly.
He whispers in her ear, "Go, do good, Svetlana Bobrov. Judge the unjust, wherever they are, whoever they are, whatever they are. Judge them. All."
Those last 3 words echo in her ears as he pulls away from the hug and starts to walk away.
He stops in his tracks, throws on his hoodie, looks at her 1 final time, and turns his back to her, walking off into the distance, until she can no longer see him.
Svetlana quickly wipes the blood tears with the back of her hand and goes off. She can't find the words to speak. It's...just all too much for her. So much for her to digest; she can't believe any of it, not even after having seen and talked with him in person.
In her mind, the AJRT fell because of a gas leak, killing 100s of innocents in the process. A terrible accident that wasn't supposed to happen.
But, the Unit 8211 thugs didn't just want to destroy a bunch of vampires. No, they had to aim for maximum damage, they had to go and kill a whole bunch of innocent civilians.
And for what? The safety of Israel or some dumb shit like that?
The worst part is, the vampire they were supposed to destroy still walks this Earth.
For how long, however, is anyone's guess.
An hour later...
Svetlana's mind has been wracked and plagued by these terrible new revelations. The image of little Chloe's face keeps on coming back to her mind. It's haunting. Horrifying. Terrible.
She can't shake it off.
A soft whisper keeps scratching away at her mind, "Setlana! Setlana!"
She keeps looking around, but there is no small child in sight who calls her that way. No one. It's a ghost from her past. A very sad ghost.
"Setlana! Can we play hide-and-seek again?"
Svetlana stops in her tracks and gasps, causing some nearby people to give her some very curious stares.
"No...no."
Svetlana notices some small movement at the corner of her eyes, it looks like a small child wearing bunny pyjamas and playing with a fluffy brown teddy bear.
She's humming some tune that the Assamite can't quite hear.
A memory from that night. A painful, painful memory. Svetlana quickly closes her eyes and does her best to suppress that horrible and terrible recollection from her mind.
Svetlana moves closer to this...child-shaped shadow and says, "Hello, there?"
The shadow whispers, "Setlana!"
It flickers like a malfunctioning hologram, or some image that has been projected on a piece of film.
She hears some more whispers in the air, but she can't make out any of what is being said. The Assamite takes a deep breath, her shoulders heave.
As she extends her hand towards the form, it begins to fade away, gently dissipating in front of her eyes. She's alone.
Completely, and utterly alone.
The Banu Haqim Neonate wipes a bloody tear with the back of her hand and keeps on walking, away from the vigil and away from the ghost (or whatever that was) that just appeared.
Mr. Bean accosts her, looking all around as if something is out there that is lurking and watching. His eyes dart left and right. The air around him seems to shift.
Svetlana stops in her tracks and gives him a weary look, not in the mood for his cray-cray BS or his cray-cray ticks, or any of his other cray-cray mannerisms.
"Whoa...you look like shit!"
Absalom emerges from a dark corner and wipes some blood off his lips, "You're back...so, how did it go?"
Svetlana drearily explains, "I met the Salubri."
Absalom gives her a sideways glance, "And?"
Svetlana spends the next few minutes explaining the necessary parts of their conversation, leaving out certain...personal details. She has to. It's a very difficult conversation, nonetheless.
She mentions that Gerald isn't keen on being a vampire anymore. That he's...essentially given up on it all.
The Assamite feels guilty for leaving out that part about his very keen desire for self-destruction and whatnot, but it's his choice. Gerald seems to be at peace with his decision.
Mr. Bean furrows his eyebrows and taps his lips, "Huh. He must have gone through a lot."
Absalom points out, "He has to be really powerful, to have gone through that many Second Inquisition fighters. I would very much like to meet this Hidden One."
Svetlana tells the Elder Seer, "He is not interested, Absalom."
Absalom silently and coldly regards her for a moment, eyes narrowed in thought and lips pursed. He then walks ahead of her, looking a bit angry, if his stiff-jawed look is anything to go by.
Absalom keeps on walking, without a single word.
Mr. Bean speaks up, "Oh, yeah, I um...booked up a hotel room for all of us to sleep in during the day."
Svetlana tries to conceal the anguished look forming on her face, "I--I will find somewhere else to stay for the day."
Mr. Bean's expression falters, "Wha--but I booked a huge suite! With a huge TV and a huge sofa...and...and I'm sure we could all enjoy each other's company."
"No, thank you. I need time--"
Absalom interjects, "You are not comfortable staying with us?"
Svetlana shakes her head, eyes wide, "I did not say that, it is just that I am very exhausted."
Mr. Bean speaks up again, "Aww, shucks! C'mon, we can watch movies and play UNO, I--I'll even let you pick what we watch--"
Svetlana gets a bit annoyed with his pushiness, "NO! I...I need space."
Absalom walks closer to her, "Then, I would assume that you have a temporary Haven in this city, Ms. Bobrov?"
Svetlana shakily responds, "Y--yes, I do have temporary Haven here."
Absalom fixes his gaze on her, "I feel that you are carrying a...strange energy, an unusual presence...in you. Tell me, do you also feel it?"
Svetlana pauses. She tries to keep a poker face. She really does. She asks, "What do you mean by that?"
Without caring to ask, Absalom takes her to a dark and secluded area and grips her by the shoulders.
His blue eyes glow a strange shade of teal as he activates his Auspex Discipline. His eyes burrow deeper and deeper into her, as if looking at her very being.
A small chill runs down her spine as Absalom speaks with a stern and firm voice, "Do not lie to me, Svetlana. Something...unnatural, unusual, has gotten into you. Tell me about it. NOW."
Mr. Bean tenses up and stands in a defensive pose, "Ummm...he doesn't mean anything bad, by it, he--"
"Silence!"
Mr. Bean lowers his head and mimes zipping his mouth shut.
Svetlana blinks, her dead heart beats like mad and her whole body quivers. She can't do much to hide the fear on her face. She tries to lie again, "N--nothing. You--you are scaring me, stop, ple--please, Absalom!"
Absalom does the opposite and channels more of his Vitae into his Auspex. The intensity and power of the Discipline overwhelm her, like a bright flashlight that's being shined right on her.
His face inches closer to hers, and, she swears she can smell a faint trace of cinnamon on his lips.
In his Auspex, the Elder Seer notices a faint cord that begins from Svetlana's body and winds up all over the place. The cord has a sickly-looking green glow to it.
He blinks and the cord vanishes, along with the glow. The cord's green color looks too...ghostly and unnatural.
It's...not right. Something is...not right.
"Absalom?" Mr. Bean asks in a concerned voice, "Umm..."
Absalom hastily commands, "Mr. Bean, activate your Auspex now. Tell me what you see."
Svetlana stands there, frozen and helpless to defend herself against whatever he's planning on doing. She doesn't want to move, not when Absalom has his cold hands on her shoulders.
Mr. Bean hesitates for a second.
Absalom glowers at the young Seer, "Mr. Bean. DO AS I SAY."
Mr. Bean twitches and fidgets, his hands shake and his eyes quiver, but he channels his Vitae into his Auspex Discipline nonetheless. He can't let Absalom down.
He won't let Absalom down. Not when he's needed.
Even he sees the same spectral cord, it begins from Svetlana's body and travels far and wide, stretching across the area and beyond. It's a strange thing, one that he's never seen before. Mr. Bean can't quite place his finger on it.
Being an Elder, Absalom has seen cords of a similar nature before, but never attached to a person.
He mumbles something incoherent to himself. Mr. Bean, on the other hand, lets out a gasp of shock. He's been through a lot, but this...this is new.
He's not sure what to make of this, nor what to do about it. He asks, "Uh...what is that stringy thing going all over the uh--"
Absalom releases Svetlana from his tight grip and tells her, "You have a being following you. I can sense it, very clearly."
He continues, "I must know more about this. I--we--you must investigate it, as soon as possible."
Svetlana rolls her shoulder and glares at him, angry that he would yank her off her feet like that, "What...what do you mean by that?"
Absalom responds, "Do not lie to me. Tell me the truth."
Svetlana gets defensive, "There is no being! You Malkavian always talking nonsense!"
Absalom claps back, "This is not nonsense, Childe of John. I know what I saw. You are being followed."
The Assamite points out, "If this is some kind of trick--"
Absalom firmly interjects, "It is NOT. I have no incentive or reason to lie to you."
Mr. Bean takes a few steps away from the arguing duo, "Guys, please, don't."
Absalom gives his charge 1 deathly and baleful look. This is enough to shut him the fuck up.
Svetlana's anger has now given way to fear. The Elder Seer's Auspex was able to detect this being's presence, he's sure of it.
He presses her, "You MUST investigate it."
Svetlana angrily spits, "I do not even know of what you speak!"
"I am telling you this...for your own good, Svetlana. There is someone in Al-Kushraf who might be able to aid you."
Svetlana scowls, "Who?"
Absalom plainly answers, "They call her 'The Witch'. She is a Tremere who specializes in such matters. She is renowned for her knowledge of...the world beyond."
Svetlana scoffs, "Is that so?"
"Yes."
The Assamite tries to dismiss his words, "Why would I want to go see her?"
The Elder Seer sighs, "For your own good. This...thing that follows you around, if left unattended, it could have adverse effects on you. It could cause...a great deal of damage, both to you and those around you."
Svetlana frowns, "How do you know of this?"
Absalom replies, "I have encountered such...beings. Decades ago, when I was still in Chicago. Regardless, it is not something you should wantonly trifle with."
"..."
"The Tremere can help you. You can ask about it yourself. However...her methods are known to be a little...unorthodox."
Svetlana tiredly nods and agrees to see this "Witch" back in Al-Kushraf. Absalom's words weigh her down, heavily for some inexplicable reason.
"Alright, I will. Now, please, go. I need to take walk. Long walk. I have learned something troubling tonight and I need to process all of it."
Absalom concedes with a curt nod of the head, "Of course. But keep everything we have spoken about in mind. I have a feeling that things are only beginning to...unravel."
The way he said that last part comes off as sinister. Mr. Bean snickers in the background, trying his best to conceal a smirk forming on his face.
Svetlana doesn't quite get what he's talking about, but she doesn't want to risk provoking his wrath, so, she keeps her mouth shut.
Absalom asks, "Are you certain you have a temporary Haven? If not, I can pay for a separate room for you."
Svetlana quickly shakes her head, "Spasibo (RU: Thank you), but I will manage. You both...enjoy hotel suite."
"Be well, Svetlana. We shall speak again tomorrow night."
She gives Absalom and Mr. Bean a polite nod of the head and leaves the scene.
She walks off into the distance, heading away from the vigil and towards the Marina. It's a 30-minute walk from where she currently is. Her mind is wracked with thoughts of little Chloe, of what happened to her, of the bombs that had been detonated, and of Gerald's words.
As she's leaving, Mr. Bean turns to Absalom, "Whoa! Crazy. How come she didn't wanna crash with us?"
"It would appear that something unresolved and unaddressed from her past, Mr. Bean, troubles her."
"What kinda thing, Abs?"
Absalom takes a deep breath, "I...do not know. A great shroud covers her."
Mr. Bean asks again, "But WHY didn't she wanna bunk with us? I--I mean it's not like I was gonna hurt her. Yet."
Absalom looks at Mr. Bean, "Your vision of her...you are certain of what you saw?"
"Mm-hmm. Yep. I have to do it. It--it's my destiny, my purpose, my calling."
"Of that I have no doubt. But, she is not what I expected her to be. There is something else here. Something even I cannot see. It is like a curtain is obscuring it all, a curtain that is very thin and fragile."
Mr. Bean callously asks, "Will it even matter anyway, like, when all is said and done, will it really matter?"
Absalom glares at him, "Perhaps not. I sense that you do not take this very seriously."
"I DO! I do, Abs, really, I do--"
"But you have reservations."
Mr. Bean swallows his words and nervously fidgets, "I just uh...can't--still can't believe it's all gonna go down...LIKE THAT!"
"You doubt the veracity of your own vision??"
"N--No, it's not that. It just goes from 0 to 100 real freakin' fast, like WHOA! I've never seen anything like that before."
"Hmmm."
Mr. Bean takes a few steps away from his mentor and takes a quick glance around the area. He looks up at the night sky and sees shining stars and a full moon.
He wonders if, maybe, just MAYBE, there is some other life out there that might be aware of their menial existence, that they are not quite alone in this universe.
In all honesty, it's a bit hard to believe, considering that their world alone is so much- vampires, ghosts, werewolves, demons, mummies, faeries, and other weird creatures.
The very idea that there might be some other entities out there, that might be staring back at them, is almost too crazy to consider- it's almost too absurd for a Malkavian like Mr. Bean to wrap his head around.
On the way back to the hotel, he talks to Absalom about the possibility of alien life and the like.
Absalom lets him have his fun. He's heard it all before.
Hell, he's seen it all before.
For her day-sleeping arrangements, Svetlana knows of a temporary Haven somewhere under the Dubai Marina.
Its location was told to her by Santiago, the Childe of Prince Angela. He was kind enough to offer it to her, or anyone else, really.
Svetlana pulls open a rusty hatch that leads down into a dank and dark corridor, and begins to walk down it. Her eyes adjust to the darkness, as she begins to make her way through the long and winding hallway, making a mental note of all the little details that she finds interesting.
She comes to a door and finds the key lodged in a hole. She takes it out and unlocks the door. She opens the door and is immediately hit with a wave of hot, dry air.
The room is completely empty. Nothing but a bare-bones mattress and a single table in the corner.
She takes another look around her temporary accommodation.
It's a pretty small and cramped space. There's cobwebs on all corners of this room, the orange lightbulb is flickering, and the whole place smells like rotten meat.
Svetlana shrugs and sits on the bare-bones mattress.
She's too exhausted as she spent the last hour or so aimlessly walking around the Marina. She still hasn't processed what Gerald told her earlier in the evening.
She also found out that her old Haven has already been rented out to somebody else. Same with John's old Haven. As for their things, well, they were all carelessly thrown away.
Her shoulders are slumped and she's tired. But, she can't sleep just yet.
It's about 2 hours to sunrise, so she locks the only door out of here shut and secures it with a rusted chain.
She has to sleep here for the day, she just does NOT feel comfortable sharing a hotel suite with 2 Malkavian men. Something about that causes her great unease.
Svetlana gets as comfy as she possibly can on this nasty mattress. She pulls out her iPhone and begins to watch some Vines.
Vines are videos that last only for 6 seconds (some say 7). They're usually funny and silly, but she finds them absolutely hilarious.
John was the one who introduced them to her, and she's been pretty fixated on them ever since.
Still, on the back of her mind, she can't help but wonder what is to come, after the events of this very night.
Gerald has shed some light on a very dark part of her immediate past. Her Sire, John, has a lot of secrets, a lot of secrets that he has yet to share, or share with her.
What is she to do now?
She has things of her own that she doesn't feel comfortable sharing with John, either.
She feels so torn and confused, and she can't help but feel that the path ahead of her will be a hard and treacherous one. She's been through a lot, and right now she needs to rest.
In time, she is within the clutches of the day-sleep. The sun emerges and shines brightly, filling up this part of the world with a bright golden light.
It's daytime in the UAE.
Gerald is in a tunnel. His movement is sluggish and he has a hard time walking straight. His eyes are dead and his skin is pale, his expression is a mix of fear and confusion, as he trudges forward.
He should be sleeping the day away, like other Kindred, but he just can't.
No. It's time.
With great difficulty and exertion he pushes himself further and further out of this dark and manky tunnel and out onto a busy street, where he can clearly see the bright and golden sunlight.
It hurts him to look at it. It's been so long since he's seen the sun.
He's decided to end it all, on his own terms. He's had enough. Enough of all this, of existing in this Unlife, of being a bloodsucking vampire.
The sun is his last and only hope of getting out of this bitter Earth.
He removes his jacket, but keeps a bandana wrapped over his 3rd eye.
Bare-chested, he walks right out onto the street, right into the blazing rays of the sun, which begins to burn him like a campfire.
"AAAAAAAAAAAAH!"
The searing rays of that great ball of fire begin to burn and scorch his body, causing his skin to crack and bleed and sizzle and burn.
But he doesn't stop. He doesn't even bother to shield himself from the terrible and agonizing sunlight. The Beast within howls and screeches and shrieks in pain as it witnesses its host's body being incinerated.
"AAAAAAAAAAAH! AAAGHHH!"
Gerald's body continues to burn and burn and burn and burn and burn.
A security guard notices this, eyes wide in horror. He quickly runs into the store he is guarding and frantically looks for a fire extinguisher.
A jogging woman gasps and stops in her tracks. She stands there and watches this strange spectacle unfold, as if she is witnessing the world's slowest-burning fire.
"What the--whoa...what is he doing?!"
"AAAAAAAAAAH!"
Gerald has his arms stretched out to either side of his body, a twisted look of absolute and unbridled agony on his face.
A little girl, who is playing nearby, looks up and screams, "WHAT'S GOING ON? What is that man doing?"
A young woman with a child in her arms screams as she passes him by. She runs towards the storefront and holds her hand to her mouth.
She closes her child's innocent eyes as the Salubri begins to turn to ashes and dust, and it scares the crap out of the poor kid.
Gerald's agonized screams will forever haunt that poor child.
Gerald is a living statue of agony and pain, as he's slowly but surely reduced to a pile of dust.
The security guard stands there, fire extinguisher in hand, as he watches the last bits of this seemingly immortal creature of the dark night being blown away by the winds.
Gerald is no more. He has been reduced to a pile of ash. A pile of ashes that will, no doubt, be swept away by the wind and scattered across the world.
In the eyes of the onlookers, it is a strange and unexplainable phenomenon that happened on a busy street in the middle of the early morning.
It's a bleak and baffling mystery that no one can quite seem to explain.
A man in a sports car halts to a stop, tires screeching. He steps out and takes off his sunglasses, jaw agape at the horrific, smoldering pile of ashes before him.
The stench shocks everyone around and renders them speechless, as they too are unable to explain this strange and mystifying occurrence.
As the man stands there, staring at the pile of ashes, he takes a whiff of the air and grimaces in disgust.
He covers his mouth with his handkerchief and takes off before the cops show up.
This bitter earth...what a fruit it bares.
The last thought that runs through Gerald's head is that of his Clan's Antediluvian, Saulot.
News spreads fast of a person (presumably a man) who immolated himself on Dubai's streets in the early hours of the morning.
An investigation is conducted, but there are no leads and no clues. The authorities can't even be sure of who this person is.
All they have is a pile of rancid ashes to go off of.
The police will do their best to keep the public safe and informed. At least that's what they tell the people around here. There's not much to go by and the rest is surreptitiously swept under the rug, so as not to disrupt the daily flow of commerce and what have you.
The Emirati authorities are nothing if not efficient.
The story of an early morning self-immolation circulates the world. International outlets from the BBC to CNN to Al Jazeera to Haaretz have stories about the incident.
The whole thing is kept under wraps and not immediately made known to the wider public. No one knows the full details behind it.
No one will ever know it. They can't.
And the remainder of the bleak day goes on without any further incidents. Life carries on in a city like Dubai, blissfully unaware mortals go about their own thang, as they so often do.
The Kindred sleep the rest of the day away and awaken as soon as the sun retreats beneath the tall glass and steel structures that litter this place.
This night, things will get stranger than they already have. Things are going to get much stranger. Much, much stranger.
Things are going to get even weirder.
Svetlana awakens to the sound of water leaking from a pipe. She opens her eyes and sits up.
The pitter-patter of the water is annoying. It sounds like a broken faucet, but she has no choice but to put up with it.
She stands up, stretches her legs, and yawns. She grabs her phone and looks at the time- 6:23 PM.
The Assamite stretches her arms out and cracks her neck. She's been through a lot, and it shows on her tired and weary face. She's tired, she's anxious, she's worried, and she's stressed out to no end.
"Oh, I am ready to leave this city now. Too much memories here. Too...painful." Her tone is one of resignation and weariness.
She grabs her stuff and leaves this temporary Haven behind, hoping to never ever return to it.
The Banu Haqim Neonate would take her bed and HER apartment any day over this manky and smelly underground space.
She steps out, into the dimly lit hallway, and makes her way up the rickety metal staircase.
Svetlana is yet to hear about the self-destruction of Gerald, although, she has an inkling that he's...gone.
The Assamite has already decided that she'll leave the city tonight and never look back. It's what she really wants to do, but her Hunger compels her for a meal. Preferably from the veins.
Svetlana sighs and looks around the Marina. She sees a small gaggle of mortal women walk into a restaurant, snickering and taking awkward selfies on their phones.
It's getting darker, so the Assamite opts for that restaurant that is tucked away in the corner of this district.
She gathers her composure, smooths any wrinkles on her clothes, and tries to make herself presentable.
She walks into the restaurant and is immediately hit with a wave of rich and savory spices. She takes a seat near the back of the place, where there are no prying eyes.
A waiter approaches her and politely bows his head, "Good evening. Welcome to the Boca Roux Pub. What will you be having on this lovely evening?"
Svetlana can't just say, "Da. Extend your wrist and permit me to bite into it, for I am creature of night and blood is the only thing that is capable of bringing me satisfaction."
Instead, she says, "I will need time to look through menu."
The waiter bows his head once again, "Of course. Please, do not hesitate to ask any of the wait staff for assistance, we are all happy to assist."
He walks off to clear up a messy table full of beer mugs, used tissues, and colorfully nasty plates.
The Assamite begins to absentmindedly read the menu. All the while, her green eyes look around for any actual succulent person that she could turn into a snack.
A pair of dark and sultry gray eyes fixates on her, from a corner booth, in the far end of the establishment.
She looks like she's about Svetlana's mortal age. She has her blonde pulled back into a very tight low bun, her make-up is dark and smokey, and she's wearing a leather jacket and formal trousers.
She's sitting with her legs crossed, sipping on some dark blue liquid that seems to come from a flask.
A man sits next to her, he leans in closer and whispers something inaudible to her.
He has a cool skin tone and a neatly shaved beard. He wears a white shirt, black trousers, and black boots. He looks a bit rough around the edges.
The woman stands up and prepares to head to the bathroom of this fine establishment.
The Boca Roux Pub is dimly-lit on the inside. The rough black wood flooring creaks under the weight of patrons and the soft, rhythmic jazz music that plays from a vintage turntable in the corner.
The windows are slightly foggy and the lighting is a dim shade of purple, giving it a rather intimate and homely vibe.
Svetlana sees this woman going to the bathroom as her opportunity to strike. She slowly follows her prey to the women's bathroom.
The bathroom stands in complete contrast to the rest of the establishment. It is painted a stark and bright white, the lights are white and far too damn bright.
Even Svetlana winces and groans under the sudden shift in lighting.
That woman who was sitting with that guy earlier stands in front of the mirror, palms placed on the marble counter. She has a very inscrutable look on her face and the intense lighting only enhances her harsh and serious features.
OK, so she's gonna be Svetlana's "donor" for tonight. The Assamite mentally readies herself for the next part.
She calmly and confidently locks the door behind her, her eyes glued on her prey.
The woman has her back turned to her, and she doesn't even notice the Assamite sneaking up on her.
Svetlana readies her fangs and strikes. Before she can make a sound, Svetlana is right behind her.
The woman quickly turns around before those pointy fangs can pierce her throat. She skips to the side, a look of sheer disgust and horror on her face.
Oh, no.
Svetlana's eyes widen.
Oh, shit.
Svetlana tries to strike again, but she's too slow, too sluggish, too weak to grab her prey and sink her teeth in.
The woman pulls out a small suppressed pistol and aims it at Svetlana's head. She fires 2 shots in quick succession.
Svetlana deftly dodges the hot incendiary rounds.
She can feel the heat radiating from those bullets. It's like a million needles had just been poked into her face.
The bullets are lodged into the bathroom's wall, a bit of smoke still coming out from the gun.
Oh, fuck.
Svetlana says nothing. She doesn't have any words to say.
Who is this person? Such guns cannot just be purchased from any ol' store.
No.
Oh, dear.
She's a Mossad agent. After the events of the morning, the SI's Unit 8211 has dispatched a few of them to investigate the area.
The Mossad agent sneers at the vampire in front of her, she readies her pistol again, but Svetlana quickly kicks that gun off her hand.
The gun clatters across the floor, the agent quickly jumps backwards, avoiding a punch from Svetlana. The agent pulls out a combat knife, a short and sturdy thing, and lunges forward.
Svetlana meets her head on, claws readied, and a primal roar escaping her lips.
"AAAGGHHH!"
They're engaged in a fight, each of them trying to stab and slash at each other.
The agent is good with that knife, almost too good. Svetlana's torso is slashed, but no blood comes out. Her arms and legs are sliced, but no blood comes out, either.
The agent is shocked at this sight, but quickly catches herself.
Svetlana has the upper hand for a little while, but the mortal agent is just as fast and strong.
Svetlana manages to get a good slash across the agent's face, leaving a long and bloody gash.
Blood splatters the pristine white walls and the floor.
The agent takes a few steps back, her hand over her face. She utters a few curse words in Hebrew and rushes to the vampire, knife-first.
The agent slashes and stabs wildly, but Svetlana parries all of them as best as she can.
They're a whirlwind of movement and noise. A blur of red, black, and violence.
Svetlana gets scratched a few times, but it's nothing major as the wounds begin to mend themselves at a slow rate.
She needs to get some blood into her Unliving system now.
The Assamite quickly strikes the agent in the chest, sending her flying against the bathroom wall, knocking down a row of expensive-looking porcelain toiletries.
The agent struggles to stand up, her face still bloody and her mouth filled with the metallic taste of her own blood.
Svetlana stands over the agent, thinking that she has the upper hand, but this moment of distraction gives the agent an opportunity to strike.
The Mossad goon sweeps her legs, knocking Svetlana off her feet, and sending her falling onto her back.
The agent springs up and straddles her and plunges her knife into her stomach. Svetlana winces and grits her teeth, as the knife is twisted and stabbed deeper and deeper.
Svetlana lets out a bloodcurdling growl and her hand shoots up and grabs the agent's face.
The Assamite slashes the agent with her sharp claws and sends her tumbling off of her. The agent crashes through a bathroom stall door, breaking it into pieces.
The Assamite frantically pulls out her ceramic dagger from her boot and readies herself to strike again.
The agent rises up, her face covered with a bloody mask. Her eyes are wide and bloodshot. She's very pissed. She takes out a small syringe and jabs it into her arm.
What...what the hell did she just inject herself with?!
Svetlana snarls and charges forward, trying to slash her opponent, but she's too slow and the agent dodges and ducks.
The agent quickly jabs Svetlana in the arm, sending her falling on her knees.
Svetlana springs back up, her eyes wide, her pupils dilated, and her fangs out. She's ready to fight for her Unlife, but the agent doesn't waste any time in taking her out.
She sprints forward and jumps, planting her foot onto Svetlana's face.
Svetlana is momentarily stunned, but she doesn't let it show. She gets up and swings her knife, but the agent is just too agile. She dodges it and kicks Svetlana's knife out of her hand.
The ceramic blade hits the ground with a dull clacking sound.
The agent grabs Svetlana's arms and pins her to the wall. The agent is so much stronger than she is, and she's able to lift Svetlana and hold her against the wall.
Svetlana growls and struggles against her foe's deathly grip, but the agent is too strong. She's in a chokehold. It's like the woman is made of pure muscle. What the hell is she taking??
Svetlana groans and the agent's grip gets tighter and tighter.
"Abomination. You things killed my friends in Haifa. I'll fucking skin you alive," the agent says as she begins to twist and squeeze Svetlana's throat.
The Assamite's eyes begin to bleed, but she refuses to give this mortal the satisfaction of hearing her gurgle.
She musters up all that she can and rouses her Beast to come to her aid. A primal and beastly roar escapes the Assamite's throat and she manages to free 1 of her hands.
She strikes the agent with her clawed hand and sends her crashing through another bathroom stall door.
Svetlana picks the shocked agent up and smashes her head into the marble counter. Repeatedly. Until her skull is fractured.
The agent is stunned, but not completely unconscious. Svetlana picks her up and slams her into the ground, cracking it in the process.
She grabs the agent's limp wrist and bites down on it. Hard, real hard.
The hungry vampire makes a few gurgling sounds as she begins to drain this mortal dry. The agent is powerless to resist, as she lies there, unconscious, head mashed in, and bleeding out.
The agent's heart beats like mad and her blood gushes into the vampire's eager mouth.
She gasps and wheezes her final breath as the last drop of blood leaves her body. Her lifeless eyes stare at nothing.
Svetlana lets out a contented sigh and stands up, wiping a few stray droplets of blood from her mouth.
"The Blade...Judges you."
The satisfied Assamite grabs her ceramic blade off the ground and plunges it into the exsanguinated mortal's midriff for good measure.
She looks in the mirror and wipes off the blood that is dripping from her chin and mouth. The Assamite has a look of sheer and utter disgust on her face.
"Ugh. I must go now."
As she's about to leave the restroom, she hears the clacking sounds of multiple high heels coming in.
Svetlana quickly drags the body to the side and activates her Obfuscate Discipline, making her body and the corpse blend with the background.
She quietly watches the door open, as 3 women walk in. They look a bit drunk. A woman staggers over to the corner and giggles.
She rubs her eyes and gets a better look around the bathroom and gasps, "Oh, my."
"Hic...oh...what? What? Hic!"
"S--Someone needs to clean this up."
The trio quickly leave the bloodied and messy bathroom, to go and call someone to clean it up.
Svetlana seizes this opportunity. She bolts out of there and exits via the service entrance. That guy that that the Mossad agent came with is likely her partner.
He's nowhere to be found, but she's not gonna stick around to find out. She takes a quick look around and sprints away.
She slams the creaky door shut and heaves a sigh of relief.
This is interrupted by a man's voice, "Going somewhere?"
It's that guy from earlier. He has a similar pistol to the one his partner was carrying.
"Move an inch and I will shoot you."
Svetlana slowly raises her hands and turns around to face him.
She glares at him with the deadliest glare she has, "Do you want to die tonight...like your friend?"
He angrily sneers at the vampire, "You whore! I'll make sure you pay dearly for that!"
"I am not afraid of you, dog."
"After I'm done with you, you're going to beg me to end it for you."
The man steps forward and jabs his gun into her abdomen.
Svetlana stands her ground, she's not backing down, and neither is this mortal.
She knows that the man has a lot of hate in his heart for her kind. He pulls the hammer of his silenced pistol back and points it at Svetlana's head.
The man's hand begins to tremble.
All of a sudden, Absalom appears at the far end of this dark alley.
His blue eyes glow in the darkness, like 2 glowing orbs. He has a very serious and stern look on his face.
Absalom calmly commands, "Lower your weapon."
The Mossad agent spits back, "Go away! This doesn't concern you!"
Absalom coolly takes a few steps forward, a menacing look on his face, "Stand down."
The agent shoves Svetlana to the side, raises his pistol and fires a few shots. Those incendiary rounds hit the Elder Malk straight in the stomach, sending him flying against the brick wall behind him.
The impact shatters the bricks and sends a rain of debris all over the place.
Absalom grimaces and winces, his body is racked with pain.
The agent stands his ground and continues shooting. Absalom is hit in the shoulder, but he tanks the shots like a champion. With fury burning in his eyes, he stands up.
The Mossad agent readies his pistol, a look of fear plastered on his face, as he readies himself to take a shot at the enraged Elder.
Absalom charges the agent like a bull seeing red. He tackles him to the ground, readies his claws, and shoves his thumbs deep into the man's eyes.
He grabs his face and begins to squeeze it like a ripe grape.
"AAAAAAGH! AAGGHH! FU--"
The agent lets out a pained shriek, as his face begins to crack and splinter under Absalom's iron grip.
Absalom lets out a few primal growls as he turns the agent's head into an incomprehensible bloody mess.
Svetlana looks away, but the sounds of the agent's bones breaking causes her to wince.
His head is squished and crushed until the agent is rendered completely and utterly lifeless.
Absalom proceeds to bite into the agent and drain him of his remaining blood.
Svetlana heaves her shoulders, a tired and shocked look on her face.
Absalom spits out the blood that is dripping from his lips and says, "We should leave. NOW!"
The 2 of them leave the scene. It's a bit bloody, but it's not a total mess.
Mr. Bean brings the car around and narrows his eyes when he sees the smoky holes in his friend's clothing.
"Hey, Abs? Wha--What happened?"
Absalom gets into the backseat of the car and lets out a pained sigh, "Mossad agents. It would seem that our timing, Mr. Bean, was perfect."
Svetlana quickly gets into the front seat and puts on her seatbelt, she turns around and asks, "What timing?"
Mr. Bean slams his foot on the accelerator and explains, "Abs here had a vision of you being attacked. Yeah."
Absalom grits his teeth as those lodged incendiary rounds continue to pierce his body and cause him great anguish.
"I sensed danger...and I was not wrong. AAAAAAARHRHHHNGGGH."
Mr. Bean's eyes widen, "Wow. Damn. So, like, what happened back there?"
Svetlana weakly responds, "I killed 1 agent. Absalom killed the other one. But, he got shot many times with small gun."
Absalom is wincing in pain. He's still taking in all that has happened.
His voice is very weak and strained, "Our path...we must leave now. We have done what we came here to accomplish."
Mr. Bean shakily asks, "Y--You need any help mending those wounds, buddy? They look uh...pretty nasty from where I'm at."
"No. It will...take time to heal. I will have to remove these fiery bullets from my body. OOOHRG!"
Svetlana cuts in, "Than--thank you for saving me, Absalom. Do--do you need help removing bullets?"
Absalom doesn't acknowledge her. Instead, he digs his fingers into his dead flesh and pulls the hot and fiery bullets out from his body.
The smell is quite foul. He tosses the bullets out the window and looks down at his mangled and bloody fingers.
Once those hot rounds have been extracted and discarded, the wounds begin the slow and grating process of mending themselves.
The pain that is coursing through his body prevents him from saying much, so he shuts his eyes for a few moments and lets his mind drift hither and yon.
3 hours later...
The trio are back in Al-Kushraf city. They immediately go up to the 140th floor of Elysium in order to meet with Seth and discuss what has transpired tonight (and the night prior).
Seth is sitting in some dark corner, as he usually does. His face is very solemn and grim, and he does not look too pleased.
Svetlana bows her head and says, "Seth...we--we have returned."
Seth strokes the emeralds on his snake cane and silently beckons for the 3 Kindred to grab a seat.
Svetlana sits down and leans back in her chair. Absalom and Mr. Bean are standing by.
Seth regards Svetlana for a few moments. His chin is slightly raised and his eyes are fixed on her, unflinching and unwavering.
He asks, "So, what happened out there? News reports are coming in of a man who apparently immolated himself early in the morning. I...I honestly thought it was 1 of you--"
Absalom equably responds, "We are unscathed, High Priest. However, Svetlana here strongly believes that it was the Salubri who destroyed himself. The details of how, or why, is not something that I can tell you."
Svetlana speaks up, "I--I do not know why that happened. When I last spoke with him, he said he was going to Golconda. I did not think he was walking out into sun!"
Absalom patiently explains, "Golconda, Childe of John, is not a place, but a state of being. A state of being that only one like the Salubri could hope to experience."
Mr. Bean inquires, "Why did he do it? Like, what made him do it? It's just...so weird, man."
Seth looks at the ground, contemplatively, "Well, it will certainly draw unwanted attention to us. And THAT is something we do not need right now."
He further inquires, "Please tell me your trip wasn't for naught. Tell me that you managed to learn something valuable from your meeting with this Salubri."
Svetlana nods, unsure of how to proceed, "I...learned of something else."
She spends the next few minutes telling the Setite about what really happened to the AJRT and the SI's involvement in the whole mess.
She leaves out the more...personal stuff, for reasons that should be obvious.
The Typhonist High Priest sits back and contemplates the new information that has been given to him. His hands are firmly placed atop the head of his snake cane, and his eyes are narrowed.
His expression is grave and serious, "This...this is quite troubling, indeed."
Absalom quietly adds, "Yes. If the Second Inquisition is willing to annihilate a singular structure for the sake of 1 Kindred, I dare not to imagine what they would do for the sake of a 100."
Seth solemnly nods, "Hmm, true, true. And are you SURE you weren't followed?"
Svetlana is fairly sure, but she tells him, "I am supposed to be counted among the victims of that tower explosion. Now that I have been caught on surveillance cameras, it is likely that they know my face."
Mr. Bean chimes in, "If--if it helps, Absalom here has a pretty good disguise."
Absalom lets out a soft and tired chuckle, "A disguise, yes, but a disguise like that will not last forever, Mr. Bean. No, Svetlana must keep her head low if she wishes to remain alive."
Mr. Bean stifles a snicker.
Seth speaks, "For now, I will tell the others to be wary of the SI. They are likely to make a move soon, and that is something we cannot allow."
Absalom asks, "What is our plan now?"
Seth looks at Svetlana, a sly smile on his face, "Oh, we have a plan alright. Don't you worry."
Some time later...
Svetlana is back in the comfort of her own Haven. A knock is heard at the door, and she opens it.
It's John. He's smiling, his iPhone in hand, "I got the SIM card all done! Abdullah helped out, he even got me a cool data plan--"
He stops mid-sentence and furrows his brows, "Something the matter? You look like crap. H--How was Dubai?"
Svetlana has a glum look on her face. She lets her Sire in and asks him to take a seat.
John moves some of his Childe's things around and plants himself on her sofa, "So, did you talk to that Salubri? Was the 3rd eye weird and off-putting."
Svetlana doesn't even crack a smile. She takes a deep breath and explains how her talk with Gerald went.
By the end of it all, John is shocked, hand over mouth, eyes wide in disbelief.
He says, "Wha...wha--what?! I--I can't believe it, Svetlana! I thought it was a--a fucking gas leak- an accident! Those monsters! Those fucking monsters!"
Svetlana shakes her head and lets out a heavy sigh, "Hmm. Even I still cannot process it, John. All those innocent lives, all those...children. Just to get to our kind?"
John's hand is shaking. He puts it down, and leans forward. He is visibly distressed and very upset.
Svetlana can't blame him, "I am sorry to have told you."
John replies, "No, no, no, not at all. It's um...good that you told me. I'm just so sorry, Svetlana. You know, when me and Abdullah found you, you were barely holding on."
He goes on, "Your torso was bleeding and lodged with shrapnel and--and glass, you had severe head trauma, and you were bleeding from everywhere A LOT."
He lets out a very shaky breath and looks at his hands. They're slightly trembling, "Abdullah was hesitant at first, heh. But, I knew we couldn't just leave you there to die. So...I Embraced you."
Svetlana can't even begin to process what it all means. She's still trying to put her head around it.
The world she left behind, the world she died in, is still alive and thriving in spite of all the horrors she's witnessed. It's a bitter pill to swallow.
John stands up and begins to pace back and forth. He stops, takes a look at his phone, and sits down on the couch again.
"Here's my number, Svetlana. I know it's risky, but I'd feel better if we stayed in touch."
"Da."
They exchange phone numbers and Svetlana shoots her Sire a missed call so he can save her number.
She puts her iPhone away, "I will talk with you more when I am feeling better. Right now, I just need time to process all of...this."
John stands up, his eyes still on his iPhone.
He puts it in his pocket and firmly nods, "Of course, of course. Take all the time you need. So, it was this Gerald guy who walked out into the sun this morning, huh?"
Svetlana pensively nods, "It would appear that way, da."
John presses his lips into a thin and nervous smile, "If you need anything, you know how to reach me."
Svetlana bows her head, "Spasibo, John. You--you are good man."
John's face tics and his expression darkens for a split second, "Hah...I wouldn't be so sure of that. I'm...not the good guy in this story. Far from it."
His expression returns to normal, and he smiles, "Uh, never mind. Take care now."
"What will you do now?"
"The Kenpo Dojo is closed, so I think I'll hang with Abdullah for a while."
"Tell him I said hello."
"Of course."
John leaves his Childe's Haven and takes the elevator down to the lobby.
On the way down, he shoves his earphones in and picks some Kristin Mainhart tunes to listen to. He has to keep his mind and his spirit up somehow, even in these bleak circumstances.
Svetlana makes a few quick calls to some of the people who employ her as a babysitter.
She calmly and politely informs them that she'll need some extra time off from work and that she can't watch over their kids for the next few nights.
This isn't unusual. She's a babysitter, after all. She does need time off every now and then.
A few of her regular clients are fine with this arrangement and don't have any problem with it.
A few others, however, hurl abusive language at her and fire her on the spot.
"Goddamn unreliable fucking Russians! I should've known better!"
"You know, sweet cheeks, maybe you and I can come to an alternative--"
Svetlana cuts that call, not in the mood for creepy offers from some random man who needs to learn some manners.
As she enters her bathroom, another power cut hits Al-Kushraf. The lights begin to flicker on and off.
Once the power returns, she prepares to take a much needed shower. It'll wash all the stress and tension off her body and give her some time to reflect on what she has learned last night.
She looks down at her hands and thinks back to that Mossad agent she killed a few hours prior. The SI, in all likelihood, will send people after her for that. She's on their radar now.
They'll find her. Soon. How soon, however, remained to be seen. And that thought scares her.
It wasn't the only thing that scares her- Mr. Bean's vision, his dream, his...whatever scares her even more. She's still unsure of how to feel about it, and whether or not to believe it.
At a plaza a few blocks away...
Abdullah and John are hanging out at this plaza. There's a lot of people walking around, shopping, hanging out with their friends, or going on a date.
Abdullah remarks, "Ah, John, habibi, so how is Svetlana?"
John smiles, "She's good. Just a bit shaken up after the whole Dubai thing. And...other stuff."
"Indeed. So, the Zionists are responsible for the AJRT explosion? I am not surprised, habibi. Disgusted, yes. But, surprised? No. It is how they do things. And they will always find some pretext or other to justify it."
John nods along in full agreement, "Yeah. We uh...we gotta do something about it, right?"
"Like what, habibi?"
John shrugs, "What we Banu Haqim do best- Judge them. Bring down the blade on their necks."
Abdullah laughs heartily at the sheer gall of this man and claps him on the back, "Oh, I like you, John! You are truly a Banu Haqim, hahaha!"
John weakly smiles, "Yeah, you too, buddy, you...too. So, how's work?"
"I cannot complain too much. How's your work? You are still doing Kenpo instructing, yes?"
John sighs, "Yeah. It's good money and it keeps me fit...or about as 'fit' as us walking corpses can be, heh."
Abdullah says, "So, I listened to that Kenpo song you sent me. I must admit, it is quite...what is the word?"
John cuts in, "Catchy? Dope? Awesome?"
"Yes. Exactly. It's very awesome. It's different than the usual music I listen to, but it's still enjoyable. Thank you, habibi."
"Haha. Sure, and make sure to listen to RedCloud's other stuff. That guy is the best!"
They continue to discuss music and other things for a few more moments.
The long stretch of shops and eateries at the plaza have their own little ways to get by- a South Indian restaurant here, an electronics store there, a Japanese pachinko parlor over there, a cheap fast-food joint somewhere over there, and a couple of Egyptian stores at the end.
John can't help but feel like they're being watched, but he shakes it off and blames it on paranoia.
There's just too many people in this area, so of course they'd draw some curious gazes from the passersby. A few tourists are trying some hookah and hanging out at a quaint little place near the far end of this stretch.
A potbellied Indian man is yelling into his phone and gesticulating angrily about how "fucking lazy and incompetent" his employees are.
Yikes.
The smell of hookah smoke, spicy food, and perfume makes its way into the noses of the 2 vampires.
Abdullah feels a slight sting in his nostrils, "P--Pardon me for a moment. I'll be back."
John shrugs and stands by, looking around and wondering what to do with the rest of this long and uneventful evening.
Abdullah returns a few short moments later.
John asks, "Everything OK, buddy?"
"Yes, yes. Can I trust you with something, John?"
John nods, "Of course. Anything. What's up?"
Abdullah begins, "Did you know that this city has a Thin-Blood population?"
John's eyebrows shoot up in surprise. He'd last heard of Thin-Bloods back in the 90s, when he was still in America.
He gestures for his fellow Assamite to continue.
Abdullah continues, "Yes. I've known about this for some time, habibi. They are living here in squalor, without any support or guidance from our own kind."
"Not too hard to see why."
"It is a dire situation for them, my friend. So, I have taken it upon myself to teach them the ways of the Blood."
John skeptically asks, "You sure that's wise? Thin-Bloods can be pretty unpredictable and uncontrollable."
"They ARE our own kind. It is our duty to help them."
John pensively nods along and shrugs, "OK. How exactly are you helping them?"
Abdullah smiles and answers, "I use a little bit of my Blood Sorcery to help them better use and understand their Thin-Blood Alchemy."
"Oh...OK."
Abdullah points out, "You are aware that Thin-Bloods are being relentlessly and savagely hunted down on nights like these, no?"
John slowly nods, "Mm-hmm. It's pretty crazy."
"That is why I help the Thin-Bloods; so that they can protect themselves from any culling that occurs. They do not have to die needlessly or be treated in such horrible ways."
"Agreed. You need any help?"
"I feel that we can make a real difference. Y--Yes, I would certainly appreciate it, habibi. Maybe you can teach them some of your Kenpo techniques and moves?"
John agrees, "Sure, but not at the dojo I work at. You get a lot of snobby types sending their kids over. Some of them can be real assholes, too."
Abdullah is pleased at his fellow Assamite's response and his offer, "Shukran (AR: Thank you), habibi."
John gives a thumbs-up, "My pleasure. So, you really think we're gonna have to fight the SI in the next few nights? I uh...got a feeling that we might be drawn in somehow."
Abdullah says, "Of course we will be. And we will not have to look hard to find the battles. They are already here, all around us, even in the shape of our fellow Kindred."
"What do feel about this city?"
"It is like Dubai in every way. But I still have my doubts and concerns over why there is no Prince. The city has grown to such proportions that it could be ruled over by one, yes?"
"Mm-hmm."
"The Ministry majority in this city is what disturbs me the most, habibi. Those...Serpents...I feel like they are plotting something or the other, but what exactly, is something that eludes me."
"The Setites have a hand in everything in this city. I bet you my iPhone that they have the authorities wrapped around their pinkies."
Abdullah chuckles, "Haha, your iPhone. So, that High Priest actually gave it to you for free, walla? That was very kind of him, I must say." There's a cheeky hint of sarcasm in his voice.
John grins and pats the phone in his pocket, "Hehe, yeah, I was shocked myself when he did that. Even got 1 for Svetlana, too. I think we made a pretty good impression on him."
Abdullah muses, "Perhaps you both did. Just...be wary of their gifts. They never come for free. Always think of the price you will have to pay later, habibi. Because...it WILL be paid. Always."
John nods along, a serious and somber look on his face, "Mmm-hmm. Yeah, I just hope it isn't too heavy of a--of a price. So, the Setites. Yeah, I've uh...never felt entirely comfortable with them."
Abdullah cuts in, "No one should be. Their ways are manipulative and they use lies and half-truths to their benefit. And, of course, we Assamites abhor such things."
They talk and continue walking, enjoying the ambience of the plaza.
Abdullah is happily doing most of the talking, but John's mind is elsewhere. It's something that Svetlana said about him being a good man. He wasn't always a good man.
It's a lot more complicated than he lets on.
The good man is the person he became long after his Embrace. In his mortal life, he was a pretty awful man.
Until the fangs of Fatima Ibn Rashid entered his neck and sent him into his First Death, John was a relatively average citizen in 1960s Magnolia City.
But, that is a story for another night.
Elsewhere, a top-secret chat commences between 2 parties.
OBED: "Mossad assets confirmed as KIA near Dubai Marina. Bodies intercepted en route to morgue. Witnesses neutralized. Blank body activity confirmed."
ILHC: "This is not good, Commander Gallant. Our intel indicated that Dubai was supposed to be free of blank bodies."
OBED: "Intel is usually never completely accurate. But, the bodies of those Mossad agents have been collected. We are now working to identify the responsible party."
ILHC: "Has the LVNDR system yielded any results?"
OBED: "A few, yes. I am having my people sift through them manually. Actionable intelligence should be forthcoming soon."
ILHC: "You better hope so. Your next report better contain results. Do not let us down, Commander Gallant."
OBED: "The blank bodies will be neutralized, b'ezrat HaShem."
ILHC: "Did the Mossad assets utilize the CEDP kit? There is no way that 2 trained field agents could have been killed by such simplistic and savage creatures."
OBED: "Given all the troubling reports regarding the CEDP, I felt it would be unwise to issue such drugs to the newly-arrived field agents, given its recent incidents."
ILHC: "This is unacceptable, Commander Gallant. They should not have died tonight. We have already been over this- the CEDP is 100% safe and effective, especially in combat scenarios."
OBED: "I am sorry, but the reports keep coming in. Frequent reports of anemia and heart palpitations after using it."
ILHC: "Commander Gallant, please listen. Discard and disregard those reports. You must continue to trust and rely on the CEDP for future missions."
OBED: "Of course. It is not my place to doubt the wisdom of the Israeli High Command. But, I have a recent report where one of my most trusted field operator reports having an erection lasting for nearly 96 hours."
ILHC: "A bad batch, most likely. These incidents will be remedied soon. Please do not pay heed to such trivial things in the future. I would not trust the reliability of such reports."
OBED: "Right. My most sincere apologies."
ILHC: "Commander Gallant, you have done wonders for Israel, for us, but we worry that you are crossing lines that were never meant to be crossed."
OBED: "Once again, I am terribly sorry about not issuing the CEDP kits to the clandestine assets. I will say the Kaddish for the 2 deceased agents."
ILHC: "Do better next time, Commander Gallant. Do not make us regret our choice of choosing you to lead a Unit as prestigious and secretive as Unit 8211."
OBED: "I am loyal to the very end, I have no regrets. I take my duty to Am Yisrael very seriously."
ILHC: "We know. What of the unusual event earlier in the morning? International outlets are having a field day with the man who presumably immolated himself in the early hours of the morning."
OBED: "Most unusual, indeed. Blank bodies are creatures primarily of self-preservation. In all my time fighting them, I have never heard of one who willingly walks out into the sun."
ILHC: "Either way, it is 1 less abomination in this region. How fares the LVNDR system?"
OBED: "Power-hungry as ever. Now that we siphon from the local power grid, it appears to be performing better."
ILHC: "We are glad to hear that. The system is far from complete, but we have no doubt that it will assist your Unit in their righteous task."
OBED: "Amen. I do not understand its complexities all too well, but my subordinates are quite enthusiastic about it. I find that the more enthusiastic my people are, the less likely that they will let me down."
ILHC: "Very much so. How do your Lieutenants fare?"
OBED: "They are eager for action. In light of recent happenings, I think it is time to initiate a new operation primarily focused around Al-Kushraf. Do I have your permission to proceed?"
ILHC: "Proceed. Have you decided on a name for this operation?"
OBED: "Operation Sheva (HEB: Seven)."
ILHC: "The Israeli High Command approves of this operation. What are the parameters and goals of this operation?"
OBED: "Our goals are clear and simple: to locate and eliminate all blank bodies in the city of Al-Kushraf, UAE. Our targets are currently unknown, but we can find them soon enough."
ILHC: "May God be with you and your entire Unit, Commander Gallant. Goodbye."
OBED: "May HaShem continue to protect Am Yisrael from all her enemies."
Operation 7 is now in effect. The forces of the Second Inquisition are readying themselves and their assets to make a major move against the Kindred of Al-Kushraf.
Chapter 8: Compound
Yet again, the sun begins its lazy climb in the sky.
The Kindred prepare to be taken in by the sleep of the day. Mortals awaken to yet another day of this and that.
As morning drags on, Seth's Ghoul, Edwin, prepares to head out and run some errands on behalf of his master.
He takes the car- a luxurious cream-colored sedan with tinted windows and a fresh coat of wax.
The Ghoul quickly makes his way across the city of Al-Kushraf. He's a very skilled and capable driver, and his driving is always quite exemplary.
He wears a simple yellow t-shirt with a stiff color, some slim-fitting black trousers that are quite short for his long legs, and black leather shoes.
Seth relies on Edwin a lot. He's quite good at his job and he's also a reliable and trustworthy associate.
(And a fairly devoted follower of Typhon, so there's that).
Edwin puts the radio on and it blasts out some random Arabic music. He absentmindedly hums along. He continues driving and finds a parking space on one of the side streets.
He locks the car, walks in to a small grocery store, and quickly picks up the things he needs.
He sifts through some fresh fruits and grabs what he needs. He pays the required amount of dirhams whilst the cashier bags his purchase.
He heads out the door, puts his plastic bag on the front seat and prepares for the long drive to his Domitor's cult compund.
Yep, Seth is a cult leader. Cults are actually a part of the Ministry's whole schtick (for lack of any better terms).
Cults are primary how the Setites recruit, train, and reward their most trusted followers (be they Kindred, Ghoul, or mere mortal).
Seth's cult is somewhere near the outskirts of this vast and sprawling city. It's a fairly large place, and the Setite makes sure to keep a lot of his business afloat there.
It's a walled-off compound, guarded by armed security round the clock.
After an hour of driving (not including the time stuck in traffic), Edwin finally reaches his destination.
He takes the last bite out of his green apple and puts the core back in the plastic bag. He's no litterbug.
The Ghoul hops out of the car and heads straight to the front gate. There, he shows his ID and a guard signals to let him in.
A guard in a security uniform runs after him and taps him on the shoulder, "Hey, buddy, where are you going so fast, eh?"
Edwin looks askance at this guard, "Do you know who I am?"
"I uh...it is my 1st day here."
Another guard announces, "It's OK! He's legit! He works directly for the boss!"
Edwin calmly nods, "That is correct. Now, please move out of my way."
The guards let him through and Edwin continues his way to the cult headquarters.
It is a big and sprawling compound. A large garden full of vibrant flowers and grass sits on the left of the road.
It's surrounded by tall trees and various buildings with various purposes. The main building is large and beige, the most prominent of them all.
There are many different types of homes nearby, ranging from shall shanties shared by many people to borderline-luxurious villas reserved for the more...elite members of Seth's cult.
The class system is very much apparent here.
Edwin goes to the main building, which is the main meeting hall and ritual center. He goes into the reception area.
An African woman looks up from her desk and greets Edwin, "Hello, Edwin! How is Mr. Seth keeping?"
Edwin replies, "He is doing fine. He is currently resting now. He shall join us in the night. Will you be there, Dembe?"
Dembe, like Edwin, hails from Uganda. She's in her late-20s, with a dark complexion and light-brown eyes.
She has a small beauty mark on her left cheek. She has a bit of a hippy vibe about her and she dresses in loose-fitting shirts and tight jeans.
Dembe nods, "Of course, Edwin! I will never miss out on what the High Priest has to say."
She hands Edwin a small envelope, "This arrived for Mr. Seth 3 days ago, but I thought it best to wait for you to get here."
Edwin thanks her and politely leaves the building.
He heads to his Domitor's 2nd Haven.
Yes, 2nd Haven. The High Priest keeps another Haven amongst his dedicated...flock.
And, it ain't no simple hut. Seth lives like a damn king there, surrounded by the spoils of his cult.
Seth himself has a sizable collection of material things, from antique gold and silver coins to various jewelry and furniture.
He's even snagged a few rare and priceless artifacts of historical significance that belong in museums for all to see. Instead, they are left languishing in his numerous display cases.
Seth's 2nd Haven is in a more secluded part of this already-secluded compound.
The only entrance is a reinforced metal gate in a large stone wall. The guards at the gate recognize Edwin, let him through, and wave him in.
Edwin has some spare keys, so he opens the doors and lets himself in.
From where he's standing, he can see a small river that runs through the grounds. The water is disgusting and smells awful, so it's likely runoff from the nearby industrial zone.
The vegetable garden here is relatively small, but it's quite pretty.
There's also a lot of bright and vibrant flowers, with a few shady trees here and there.
Edwin spends a few moments cooling himself down under the air conditioning. He goes through his master's mail.
A large part of the cult's income comes from selling various snake oil supplements and such in the black market. The cult is also 1 of the primary investors in some of Al-Kushraf's more lucrative industries.
Edwin frowns as he reads through the small collection of hate mail that has accumulated over the past few days.
The cult is entirely self-sufficient. They grown their own organic food here, they live off of the land, and they are able to deal with most things on their own.
They also have some pretty powerful and reputable folks in their ranks. This helps avoid scrutiny from the authorities and the other Kindred.
Seth's cult is a thing of beauty, to some. Mr. Steale is a charismatic, smooth-talking, miracle-performing, snake oil salesman with a cult of devoted followers.
But, the cultists see him as something more than that. Something...divine.
The cult is just 1 of many things that keeps Seth's fellow Ministers fed, fed, and happy.
The cultists know that Seth is a vampire (some more so than others). From time to time, they even beg him to drink from their wrists or necks. They yearn for the Kiss, after all.
They come from all walks of life, from poets to doctors to lawyers to artisans to brick-layers.
And they come from all ethnicities, nationalities, and backgrounds, but that's only because Al-Kushraf, like Dubai, is a pretty diverse place.
Edwin quickly skims through some of the hate mail and throws it into a small dustbin.
Edwin walks around Seth's 2nd Haven, goes through the various rooms, and makes sure that everything is fine and dandy.
Next, he takes a long walk to the cult's snake vivarium. Many poisonous and venomous snakes are housed here.
On the way, some cultists toiling in the field under the hot sun wave at Edwin and thank him for coming around.
They hope to see the High Priest later this evening and receive a fresh revelation from Typhon.
Edwin smiles and waves back. He enjoys visiting this vivarium. It is a calming place, filled with beautiful, deadly, and intelligent creatures.
He puts on some special gloves and prepares some food for the snakes. He feeds them, ensures that they are comfortable, and spends some time glossing over the many slithery and colorful reptiles that inhabit this place.
There is something unnatural about the ways these snakes move. Even their hissing is so eerie, so uncanny.
It is a weird place filled with weirder creatures, to be sure.
Edwin finally heads back to the main building. He can't help but feel that there's something...no, someone watching him.
He whips his head around and notices, from the corner of his eye, a man in the garden.
His eyes widen, and he whips his head around again.
He quickly walks over to this man, a stern and angry look on his face.
The man has a dark complexion and frizzy hair. He's wearing a loose white robe and brown sandals. Almost everyone around the cult wears something similar.
Edwin hisses at him, "What do you want now, Waleed?"
Waleed looks distressed, "I--I need to make another phone call, please?"
Edwin quickly takes Waleed to the side and angrily says, "Do you know how much trouble I will get in if my Domitor finds out that I'm helping you make phone calls to the outside world?! Do you?!"
Waleed asks, "Please? It's important, I need to know. It is my son. We have been estranged for so long. I just found out that he has been diagnosed with cancer, please, Edwin."
Edwin frowns and reluctantly nods, "Fine. M--Make it quick. I already feel like I am in too much trouble."
Waleed steps closer and puts a hand on Edwin's shoulder, "Thank you, Edwin. Typhon will bl--bless you."
The Ghoul glowers at Waleed, but he decides not to say anything about it. Instead, he hands another cellphone to Waleed and stands aside as the man quickly dials a number.
It takes a while, but Waleed eventually speaks to a close friend of his, "...Is my son in the hospital? Is he, Ahmad?"
Waleed paces around and hunches his shoulders as he continues to talk.
He curses and his eyes widen, "They--They are? Oh, god!"
He pauses and then nods, "Yes, yes, yes, yes. Thank you, Ahmad. Yes, I will try. It's just that I can't...not now. Yes, goodbye and please tell my son that I will visit him soon."
He hands Edwin the phone, and profusely thanks the Ghoul, "A 1000 thank yous, my friend!"
Edwin wordlessly pockets this small flip phone, curtly nods, and saunters off into the distance. He's not one for lengthy goodbyes and he could get into some serious shit if anyone found out he's been doing this.
Waleed is visibly shaken up and distraught. He begins to think about how his family and his children are coping with this. He's never been more terrified in his life.
He stops in his tracks and mutters a small prayer to Typhon. After that, he goes back to toiling in the garden, like he was before.
Edwin returns to Seth's Haven and lets himself in. He begins organizing some of the things in his Domitor's room.
Seth has many things and little organizing skills; he just leaves things piled on the floor and around him.
Edwin quietly hums to himself as he moves around the place. He puts things away and dusts the place, ensuring that it's up to the High Priest's standards.
An Afrikaner guard calls out, his South African accent very noticeable, "Hey, you! Who the fuck are you? This ain't no place for you."
Edwin sighs and cracks a faint smile, "I work directly under the High Priest. Ask anyone around here- I have full authorization to be in his dwelling place."
The guard grimaces and warns, "Wait right here while I go and confirm this with my boss."
Edwin impatiently waits. A few moments later, the guard returns and tells Edwin, "All right, you're good. Sorry about the confusion, s--sir."
Edwin nods, "It is fine. I take it you're new here?"
"Yes, sir."
"Hmm, very well. Be on your way, then."
The guard curtly nods and saunters off, submachine gun hanging and dangling from his arm.
Edwin quietly returns to his tasks, delicately putting some really expensive-looking artifacts in a display case. These things were gifts from some of the richer cultists currently on Seth's compound.
There's a purple Fabergé egg with a golden finish. There's even a few antique rings and brooches, all with fancy designs.
Edwin nervously gulps as he takes the Fabergé egg in his trembling hands. Sweat beads form on his forehead and he almost drops it.
He's scared of dropping something so fragile and delicate, even though he's seen Seth drop much more fragile and delicate (and pricier) things in the past.
The Ghoul puts it in a display case and adjusts it a bit so that it's perfectly aligned.
Edwin continues putting the other items away. He makes a mental note of the locations of the objects and their value. There's a few antiques, some books, and some other miscellaneous stuff.
Some are from archaeological digs and such, and would do a lot more benefit being in a museum or college. Instead, they serve as nothing more than glorified trinkets in the High Priest's 2nd Haven.
Edwin overhears some of the hired mercenaries nearby talking loudly in the Afrikaans language. He doesn't understand a lick of what these mercs are saying.
A lot of the mercenaries guarding the cult compound are South African. They're primarily contracted through a firm that is owned and controlled by various Setite Elders.
This cult, as a whole, ticks off many of the boxes of Dr. Steven Hassan's "BITE" Model Of Authoritarian Control.
When it comes to Behavior, cult members, for instance, are strictly forbidden from forming romantic attachments or intimate relationships. They must not engage in sex or any kind of physical intimacy.
(It goes without saying, but same-sex relationships are obviously forbidden. Being trans or transitioning is also a big no-no).
In regards to Information, cellphones (!), computers, tablets, and all of that are STRICTLY forbidden. The cult's communications network is incredibly rudimentary, and all cultists are expected to talk...face-to-face.
When it comes to Thought, the Setites that frequent this cult have no issue using the Presence Discipline to sway and numb the cultists to the point where they'll do almost anything their immortal masters say.
Lastly, Emotional control is exerted in a similar way. Additionally, Seth is quite a charismatic individual who is able to manipulate others into believing him and following his path.
If the High Priest is telling you that the sky is green and the grass is blue, you'd best believe it. Science is not something that is respected around here.
Edwin knows that Seth would be furious if he found out that his own Ghoul was helping devoted cultists make phone calls to the outside world.
Edwin finishes his work, makes sure that his boss's 2nd Haven is in tip-top condition, and locks the door behind him.
He takes in a lung-full of that fresh air and looks up at the sun. He quickly looks away and winces at its harsh glare.
A few of the more docile cultists are swaying to and fro, their sweet singing filling the air.
Edwin keeps thinking that his master will discover how he helps certain cultists (not just Waleed) make phone calls to people they so foolishly left behind.
The Ghoul's lips quiver and he sits down on a nearby bench in order to calm his jittery nerves.
He tries not to think about the consequences of his actions. Then again, Edwin is bound to Seth by the most primal of forces, the Bond of Blood. He is as loyal and devoted as they come.
There's a reason why "Ghouls" are called "Ghouls".
As for Waleed, he was a professor in a very prestigious and esteemed university. He left it all behind, most likely as a sort of midlife crisis thing coupled with middle-class disillusionment.
Ever since he found out about his son's cancer diagnosis, he's been trying to stay in touch, but with the current...restrictions in place, he couldn't.
He feels partly responsible for his son's illness, and he doesn't know if his son can survive it.
Then again, he hopes that Typhon will heal his sick son and show him the error of his ways. For now, he just sticks to making hush-hush phone calls via an increasingly reluctant Ghoul.
Edwin takes a long walk around the vast compound. The contrast between the armed mercenaries and the cultists with an eerie grin on their faces is very evident.
The cultists seem far more normal and less...unnatural. It's almost like they're the norm, while the mercenaries are the anomaly.
A few cultists wave at him and excitedly tell him that they look forward to seeing the High Priest soon.
"I ju--just cannot wait to--to touch Mr. Steale's hands and feel his ethereal p--power, Edwin."
"Yes, I too cannot wait to be blessed by our beloved High Priest."
"I am most looking forward to a new revelation from him, yes!"
Edwin simply says that Seth shall be coming over tonight. A look of unnatural joy and excitement spreads across the cultists' faces.
"Ooooh, w--we must prepare for the night and pray that Typhon will bless us with a fresh revelation, yes."
"I cannot wait to be touched by the High Priest and feel his ethereal power."
"I hope Seth will impart the Kiss to us again. We do need to be strengthened."
"Of course we do."
Edwin continues his tour of the cult's grounds and the compounds, and takes some time to chat with a few people he's known for quite some time, but not too long.
They talk about mundane matters like the weather, the food, the culture, and other such things. Some of them here are woefully out of touch with what is going on outside of this compound's fortified walls.
Hell, some of them have no idea what year it is- that's how long they've been trapped here.
With a slight look of pity on his face, Edwin tells them what year it is. Some of them are visibly shocked, others laugh it off and go back to what they were doing.
Afternoon draws to a close and the sun begins setting on the horizon. The cultists, the mercenaries, and a few staff members all go back to their respective quarters and rest up for the night ahead.
Edwin gets back in the car and drives back to his master's 1st Haven. Tonight, Seth Steale shall pay his little flock a visit.
By the time Edwin gets back, the sun has retreated fully and the night has started its long, dark journey. He lets himself in and locks the doors behind him.
The Ghoul calls out, "Sir? A--Are you awake now, sir?"
No response.
Edwin gulps and narrows his eyes, "Sir?"
No response again.
The Ghoul slowly and quietly creeps through the dark living room, and then through the hallway.
Seth is in a dark room, sitting on the floor cross-legged. He's meditating, his mind far away.
Edwin raps his knuckles on the door and peers in nervously, "Sir, everything is ready at the compound. Everyone is eager for you to come and visit them and impart a new revelation from Typhon."
Seth is caught off guard and sighs. He quickly regains his composure, a subtle smirk on his face, "Very well, Edwin. Make the necessary preparations."
"Yes, sir. Are you sure that you are OK and ready for tonight?"
"I am fine, Edwin. With Typhon's help, I am stronger than ever before."
Edwin looks down at the ground, "Oh, um...w--well, you sound a bit more tired than usual, sir." His eyes dart from side to side, he's kinda afraid Seth will read his mind about the whole phone calls thing.
"It's fine, all is well. I just woke up, that is all."
"Oh, OK. I hope you had good rest. Would you like me to bring you a drink of blood?"
Seth shakes his head, "Actually, I was thinking of going hunting tonight."
Edwin offers, "M--many of the people at the compound are eager for you to bite into them, perhaps we could--"
Seth holds up a finger, "No. I'm going hunting. We'll find a suitable...meal on the way, won't we, Edwin?"
Edwin dutifully nods, "Yes, sir. We will."
The High Priest coldly regards his nervous Ghoul for a moment, "Is something the matter, Edwin? I feel that something is on your mind. Whatever it is, know that you can come to me with your concerns."
Edwin twitches, "It's nothing, sir."
"Are you sure? You look...a lot more uneasy than usual."
"It's...it's nothing, sir. I am fine."
"Very well. I will be joining you soon. I'll need to get dressed now."
Edwin nods and scurries off, almost tripping on himself.
Seth watches his retainer as he exits the room and closes the door behind him.
The High Priest lets out a small sigh and looks out the window. It's already pitch-black, and the city lights are on. He wears a simple striped orange shirt and a pair of flats.
He completes the look with a bracelet, a pair of rimmed glasses, and a few rings. He grabs his trademark snake head cane and gently strokes its emerald eyes.
It's not long before he hears a knock on his door and a muffled voice, "Sir? All fine in there?"
Seth plainly answers, "Yes, Edwin. Thank you. Tell me, is my ceremonial robe all ready for tonight?"
"Yes, sir. One of the devotees washed it herself. W--With her hands. It's in the closet at your other Haven."
Seth lightly chuckles, "How...very thoughtful of her." There's an underlying sarcasm in his voice.
He emerges from his room, his cane in hand. Edwin approvingly nods at his master's casual attire.
They leave the Haven and drive the car to the compound. Traffic is a bit dense than usual, so the drive takes a tad bit longer than expected.
Seth sits in the backseat, cane resting across his lap. Edwin takes a long detour and uses side roads instead.
The Ghoul inquires, "Where would you like to feed? Are you SURE you don't want to feed in the compound?"
Seth sighs, "Edwin, I know what I want and I know how I want it. Now, drive slowly. I think I've seen a few people around here. They're easy prey."
Edwin blurts out, "I hope they taste good, sir."
"Don't worry, I'm sure they'll be satisfactory."
Seth's inner Beast hisses (like a snake) and grumbles its desire for a good meal. It knows what it wants and it isn't shy about telling Seth what it wants.
Seth orders his Ghoul, "Stop right here and wait."
"Very well, sir." Edwin stops the car, turns off the engine, and gets out of the car. He holds the door open for his Domitor, slightly hunched over. He tries not to look up, in fear of meeting his master's dead, serpentine eyes.
The area around is mostly dry land. There's a few buildings (or buildings in progress) scattered about. Traffic (both wheels and foot) is practically nonexistent.
The air is hot, and the faint sounds of locusts and desert creepy-crawlies fill the air. A warm, heavy breeze brushes past. It's a great night to hunt for vampires.
Seth's amber eyes go over the place, observing the city before him, its hustle and bustle as usual. He spots a small contingent of migrant workers walking back to what is, in all likelihood, their detestable living quarters.
He's quite pleased that it's dark and the night has settled. He quietly sneaks up behind these people. They're conversing in a language that Seth doesn't seem to understand, but that's fine.
They'll do. They're easy prey.
They are just about to enter the maze of cramped shantytowns and other such places when Seth intentionally knocks over some trash on the ground. The people turn to the noise and see nothing.
It's probably just the wind, they tell themselves.
A young lad stays behind. He clenches his fists and begins to investigate the trash on the ground, hoping to find something of interest.
Seth stalks up behind this lad and covers his mouth with his cold, strong hand. He squeezes and forcefully moves his head to the side. The lad tries to cry out, but nothing comes out.
The young lad cries as Seth's fangs come out. The High Priest hungrily bites into the poor guy's neck, tasting his blood and sinking his fangs in deeper. He takes in the scent of his warm, human blood.
The migrant worker gasps, a look of terror on his face. He soon passes out as Seth takes his sanguine fill. The lad's breathing is labored and his heart beats faintly.
After Seth drinks his fill, he deftly licks the bite wounds on the neck and leaves the unfortunate worker near the trash pile.
The vampire casually saunters off. It's a long walk back to the car, but Seth can take it. He feels refreshed and rejuvenated, his Beast rumbles in contentment.
He takes in a deep breath and takes another look at the city sprawling before him, a beacon of light in the desert wasteland.
He can see the distant lights of the skyscrapers, the shimmering billboards, the glitz and glam of Al-Kushraf.
He can see the light of the city, but he Abhors it greatly. He winces and hisses under the bright intensity of the shining lights.
Seth continues his silent march through the empty, darkened road and approaches the car. He gets in the backseat and throws his head back. He wordlessly signals for Edwin to drive to the compound.
Edwin, as dutiful and devoted as ever, gets into the driver's seat and starts up the engine. He puts on his seatbelt, flicks a switch, and looks in the rear-view mirror. He meets his master's cold eyes and his own eyes widen.
Seth's eyes have been turned into slits, similar to that of a snake's. They glow a faint amber and are quite the unnatural sight to behold.
The Ghoul gulps and hastily starts driving. It's not his 1st time witnessing such a thing, but it never fails to scare the bejesus out of him.
The other Kindred have already awoken and satiated their Beasts.
John and Svetlana both decide to take things a little easier tonight, but the events of the past few nights continue to weigh upon them.
The car slowly creeps through the city streets. A lot of the roads are dark, and there aren't as many people roaming the streets than there normally would be.
There is a febrile atmosphere within the walls of the cult. The cultists wait in eager anticipation for their dearly beloved High Priest to grace them with his presence.
All around, the city goes on. There are the usual sounds of city life, but that's about it, really.
Edwin quietly whispers to his Domitor, "Sir, the devotees are very much excited to see you tonight."
Seth chuckles softly, "I'm sure they are, Edwin. I'm sure they are."
He ominously adds, "After the ceremony, there's something I want to take care of. Personally." He doesn't further elaborate, letting this grim statement hang in the air.
Edwin merely nods and continues to drive. They drive to the compound. It's an imposing sight, especially at night. It looks like a fortress surrounded by an enormous wall.
As usual, the guards know Edwin and let them in. Seth nods to some of the guards and they nod back, their eyes firmly on their guns.
The compound is alive with a whole bunch of sounds. There's the constant murmur of the devotees, the quiet sounds of the mercenaries, and the faint music in the distance.
Seth and his faithful Ghoul disembark near the former's 2nd Haven. They stand in the courtyard for a while, a few cultists walking around and whispering in hushed voices.
Seth cracks a gentle but wicked smile and begins to make his way to the main hall of the compound, Edwin following behind him.
A few devotees stop what they're doing and come to greet the High Priest and his Ghoul.
"Oh, High--High Priest. It is so good to see you again. Has Typhon's favored come to impart a new re--revelation upon us?"
Seth vaguely answers, "All will be made known in due time. I must prepare myself for what lies ahead now. In the meantime, purify yourself with the Serpent Water and be ready for something...great to happen."
The devotee sycophantically answers, "Yes, High Priest. We shall."
"We will wait and wait for Typhon to bless us with a new revelation. Thank you, High Priest."
"Thank you, High Priest."
A cultist steps forward and extends her wrist, wishing for the Setite to bite into it, her eyes alight with desire, "High Priest, please drink from my wrist."
Seth declines this generous offer, "Not tonight, devotee. I have already sated my Hunger. Perhaps another night, hmm? Yes?" He firmly fixes his gaze on her, his eyes cold as ice.
The woman quickly backs down, her hands clasped in front of her and her face flushed with color, "Yes...of course. P--Please pardon my f--foolishness."
Seth walks off with Edwin following in tow. The Serpent unlocks the door to his 2nd Haven and flips a light switch. It's dim and barely lit in here- just the way he likes it.
The High Priest heads straight to the bathroom and goes through the ritual of preparing himself. Edwin quietly waits at the door. He can hear the splashing of water.
A few moments later, Seth comes out.
He's resplendent a flowing liturgical chasuble. The material is soft and ivory in color. It flows down to Seth's bare ankles. There's some intricate gold patterns running down the front.
The sleeves and collar of this elegant garment are bordered with a matching gold band, lending cohesion, consistency, and harmony to the overall design.
Edwin has seen Seth wear this before, but the High Priest always seems to look different every time he dons it.
Must be the lighting (or the lack thereof).
Edwin compliments his master, "Looking good. As always, sir."
Seth reminds his retainer, "It's not for the aesthetics, Edwin. This has spiritual significance imbued into every fiber of its design."
"Of course, sir."
Seth sits down on his bed, his ceremonial chasuble still on, "And...it also belonged to my Sire, so its power is that much stronger."
Edwin observes, "You...don't speak of him that much? W--Why?"
Seth doesn't respond. Edwin takes a look at the garment and tries not to touch it. The High Priest's Sire, as Seth so often mentions, wore this garment.
Seth barely (if ever) mentions his Sire- Rafael is only brought up whenever Seth has a point (of a spiritual or esoteric nature) that he'd like to get across.
Seth responds to the question, "Why the interest in Rafael all of a sudden? The less I say about him, the less you shall worry."
"It is just curiosity about the man who Sired you...who brought you into this existence."
Seth's disinterested voice fills the air, "Well, I will not bore you with stories of Rafael."
He continues, "But, there were times where he tested my faith in Typhon. And these, Edwin, were no ordinary tests..." Seth's voice trails off and he stares off into space for a moment.
Seth muses, "Perhaps I will tell you about it another time. I have many memories, some good and some not so good, but that is beside the point."
Edwin remarks, "We all have our pasts, sir."
Seth chuckles, "Yes, we do, don't we? Do you still dwell on yours, Edwin?"
Edwin tenses up for a second, but he quickly shakes his head from side to side and resolutely answers, "No, sir. I am eternally grateful for this opportunity to--to--"
"Yes?"
Edwin gulps and tries to steady his shaking hands, "To serve you, sir. I...I am glad that I serve Tyhpon's favored."
Seth remains still as a statue and stares at his Ghoul, "Ah, I still recall that...hunting trip I was on throughout East Africa. Finding you was 1 of the greatest joys of my Unlife, Edwin. You know that?"
Edwin answers, "It...It means a lot to me, sir."
Seth nods, "I know. Now, come. Let's get ready for tonight's ceremony."
"Of course, sir. If you don't mind me asking, but what is it that you wish to see to after the ceremony concludes?"
Seth smirks, "You'll see it for yourself, Edwin. I shall not spoil it for you."
Edwin nervously nods, "Very well, sir."
The High Priest mentally prepares himself for tonight's ceremony. The cultists (some more than others) know that Seth is a vampire.
For his part, Seth really leans into the more supernatural and seemingly-inexplicable aspects of Kindred Unlife.
The Serpent performs some meditation to focus himself and ready up for the ceremony. Edwin, meanwhile, quietly waits for his master to give him his next order.
After some time, Seth looks up, the snake-like slits of his eyes gleaming in the near-darkness of his Haven.
He grabs his snake cane and repeatedly strokes the emerald eyes. His lips move, but no sound comes out. It's as if he's having a silent conversation with his magical snake cane.
The Ghoul (even though he's not in the same room as Seth) fidgets in his seat and gulps. The tension in the room is quite palpable.
He can feel a heavy and ethereal aura that is only present when Seth is fully prepped for what is about to happen.
Edwin sits up straight in his seat, shuts his eyes, and throws his head back.
After a tense hour or so...
Seth emerges from his meditation room, a look of confidence plastered all over his pale face. He seems to be in better spirits now.
"All right, Edwin. Let's go now. It's time for me to show them that their High Priest is here and that Typhon's favor is upon them."
Edwin bows his head and holds the front door open, "After you, sir."
Seth grabs his cane and walks to the main building. His chin is held up high. A few of the guards hold the ever-so-eager cultists back as the Viper strides to his destination.
Edwin trails behind him, his eyes averted and his hands trembling slightly. The Viper gives a look of disdain to these mortals, his eyes a strange blend of confidence and rage.
These mortals, on the other hand, have a look of utter desperation mixed in with the palpable fear in their eyes. They WANT what Seth offers them, they NEED it.
Seth opens the doors to the main hall, his entrance a grand affair. A look of calm yet confident satisfaction spreads across his face as he strides through the sea of gathered cultists.
"Oh, High Priest!! Welcome! Typhon bless you! Typhon bless us all!"
"May we have a new revelation tonight, High Priest?"
"It is an honor to be in the presence of Typhon's chosen!"
Some random cultist falls to his knees and screams out, "BLESSED BE TYPHON!"
Upon hearing this, the cultists chant, "Blessed be Typhon!"
Seth calmly responds, "All praise be to Typhon." He takes the elevated stage and places his cane on a nearby stand.
The hall has wooden flooring, with the occasional patch of green carpet. There are dim orange lights all over that bathe this place in an otherworldly glow.
There are large windows on walls, but the long orange curtains are drawn closed. It's spacious enough for all of the cultists to gather here, with a little room to spare.
The High Priest begins, his arms outstretched to either side, "My dear flock. It is so good to see you again after so long. Typhon has been good to me, as I am sure Typhon has been good to you."
Murmurs of agreement (some reluctant, some forced, others overly enthusiastic) fill the air.
Seth continues, "I have been meditating, awaiting this very moment. Things are happening in the outside world. They will continue to happen, but the main point is--"
He pauses for dramatic effect, "--to always...ALWAYS keep your hearts pure and eyes on Apep. Never look at your circumstances or situations, my dear friends."
He pauses again, and then continues, "As I have said before, Typhon is watching over you. I have received many blessings from Typhon, and I have given but a portion of them unto you."
A woman with gleaming eyes pushes her way to the front and looks up at Seth, "Blessed be you, High Priest."
She bows down and moves her long hair to the side, revealing her neck. She seems to be in some sort of trance, as if her very being is being pulled towards Seth's ethereal aura and swayed back and forth.
Seth stifles a chuckle, "You're too kind. Maybe another time, yes?"
A cultist loudly asks, "Did you enjoy the gift of our purified bodies and soul, oh great High Priest?"
Seth smoothly answers, "Of course I did. A great friend of mine had wonderful things to say about it. Thank you."
(They're talking about the blood that some of the cultists generously "donated" to Seth.)
A middle-aged woman steps forward, her voice trembling, "Typhon has spoken to me and Typhon wants you to know that we are being watched. You, High Priest, are doing great work by spreading our--our sacred message."
The High Priest smiles in satisfaction. A few murmurs fill the air. Everyone in the hall looks to Seth with a look of expectation. It seems that some of them already know what's coming.
Seth proceeds with his sermon, pacing about and his hands moving with purpose, "My flock, it has been an honor to be here with you on this wonderful and starry night. But I must remind you of this..." He pauses, for effect.
The hall falls silent.
Waleed is standing somewhere in the back. Seth's eyes fall upon him. The Serpent gives Waleed a very subtle look. The look on the cultist's face is a mixture of shame, sadness, and hope.
Seth keeps his gaze fixated on Waleed, "...Never let the influences of the outside world worm their way into your hearts and minds, yes? Typhon knows, Apep sees. The Serpent's eyes are...everywhere." Seth's gaze is like a pair of snake fangs piercing right into Waleed.
Waleed gulps and lower his head in an effort to avoid eye contact.
Seth moves on, "No matter what comes your way, no matter who tries to lead you astray...always, ALWAYS remember 1 thing."
"Yes, High Priest?"
A cultist gets on his knees and holds out his arms, "Tell me what 1 thing I must remember, High Priest! P--Please!" His face is flush with color. His eyes are wide open and shining like diamonds.
They're practically eating out of Seth's hands right about now.
Seth reminds them, "Always stay on the Path of Typhon. Look for Set's hidden signs and follow them, my dear friends."
"We will always be on the lookout, brother Steale!"
Seth smirks and lifts his chin, "As you should be. Contribute to our goals of bringing about the revival of Set."
Waleed twitches and starts to tremble, sweat pouring down his forehead and down his arms. A few cultists see this and tell him to relax and calm down.
The last thing they want is for someone to have a nervous breakdown during this great sermon.
Seth notices Waleed and beckons for him to come to the front of the stage. He smiles warmly as he watches this middle-aged man nervously make his way to him.
Seth's eyes narrow in delight and he almost licks his lips.
Waleed keeps his head lowered, doing his best to avoid eye contact with his fellow cultists. A lot of them are puzzled, wondering why the High Priest chose him to go up there.
Seth places his cold hand around Waleed's shoulders and pats his back a few times, "My good friend, brother Waleed, here will attest to the ethics of our group. Go ahead, my good brother..."
Waleed trembles under the pressure, and his voice trembles along with his body, "I uh...I--"
"Tell the good and fine people gathered here why we are on the right Path, why the Serpent will save us. Tell them...there is nothing to worry about."
Waleed nervously chuckles, "Y--Yes, indeed. As brother Steale has mentioned...there--there is nothing for us to worry about, brothers and sisters. All...All is in Typhon's gracious hands."
He's doing his best to try not to think about his ailing son. He does NOT want to think about what Seth could possibly do if he find out that he's been secretly communicating with his son and friends outside of the compound.
Seth squeezes Waleed's shoulder a bit and whispers, "You did well, my friend. Go. Be at peace with yourself. We shall talk later."
Those last 4 words strike fear into the mortal man's heart and send chills up and down his spine. He nods profusely and walks off the stage. He breathes a sigh of relief as he blends into the crowd once more.
Some devotees shake Waleed and give him a thumbs-up or other words of validation and encouragement. Seth smirks as he watches Waleed, the Serpent's fangs are poised and ready for the killing strike.
Seth's eyes are on Waleed the whole time, "If you feel lost, come to me."
The Typhonist takes his eyes off of Waleed and tells the others firmly, "Maintain secrecy above all, my friends. The outside world, should they find out about us, would not take very kindly to us." He flashes a smile at this remark.
A few of the cultists laugh along with him. Some of them aren't laughing at all, instead just smiling and nodding. The other half just keep their faces completely deadpan.
Dembe enters the room and all eyes fall on her. A hush falls over the room. It is dead silent.
Seth summons her to the front, "Sister Dembe! Please, please, come up."
Dembe's eyes light up and she eagerly makes her way to Seth, her black dress trailing behind her. Her face is flushed and her lips quiver in excitement.
This woman has an unnatural zeal for the Typhonist Cause.
She gets on the elevated stage and is standing right beside Seth, the Viper's gaze on her, his hands moving with predatory grace and purpose down her back.
Sister Dembe's lips are curled up and she nods with the fervor of a devoted devotee, "Oh, it is most excellent to see you again, High Priest--err, I mean, brother Steale!!"
Seth waves his hand lazily, "Names come and go, sister Dembe."
He looks at the others and proudly declares, "Sister Dembe here has brought many others into our sway in order to increase our influence around these parts, haven't you, sister?"
Dembe frantically nods and grins from ear-to-ear. She's panting in excitement, "Yes, I--I have indeed. I have also been sharing the teachings of Typhon to a few...outsiders."
She adds, her tone getting increasingly excited and feverish, "And they are SO interested in Typhon and the Path!!!" She almost squeals, "I--I cannot wait to bring them here to hear your message, High Priest!!"
Seth looks at her with a mix of warmth and concealed disdain, "You are too kind, sister Dembe. Too kind. Typhon has great things in store for you, of that much I am certain!"
Dembe smiles widely when those word's leave the mouth of the High Priest. He can feel her emotions running hot right now. They're a mix of pride, excitement, and fervent devotion.
She shuffles off stage. A few cultists give her looks of jealousy, jealousy that she had the honor of being openly praised by Seth Steale for luring folk into this place. Others just keep their heads down and carry on by listening to the sermon.
It does get pretty...competitive when it comes to recruiting new members to Seth's cult. Since it's essentially led by a vampire, secrecy is the name of the game.
The rest of the sermon proceeds with Seth reminding everyone about the Path and the many ways they can help bring it about, as well as a reminder to maintain the secrecy of the cult.
The sermon drags on for about 40-ish minutes. The cultists remain standing, some of their legs begin to give out due to the sheer length of time they've been standing still for.
A few cultists just stare at the wall with glazed eyes, a blank expression on their face. The High Priest's voice goes on and on about the Serpent, the Path, shit like that.
Seth has a talent for talking people's heads off with obscurantist woo-woo and mumbo-jumbo that makes literally no sense or outright contradicts itself. It's a very, VERY effective way for the Sand-Snake to lull mortals into a trancelike state.
The Viper continues on with his speech. The devotees stand there with blank expressions on their faces, absorbing everything like sponges.
As Seth is just about to conclude his message, Gallagher walks in. He's got that ever-so-hard look on his face. He's wearing a tight long-sleeved wrap shirt and a pair of denims.
Seth immediately takes notice of the new arrival and summons him to the front, "Brother Gallagher. Please, please, come up. It's so good of you to join us. I know you couldn't keep away for long, eh?" Seth says this last line with a smirk.
The former Sheriff of Dubai strides to the front and jumps up on stage. Some of the devotees are shocked by Gallagher's display of preternatural prowess, while others nod approvingly.
The Sand-Snake introduces his fellow Setite to the crowd, "I don't believe most of you have seen my dear friend Gallagher in action. He's as strong as he looks."
Some of the ladies blush while some of the guys whisper amongst themselves. Seth looks over his cultists, a hint of disgust on his face. It's really more like they're sheep that Seth herds into whatever he wants them to believe in.
Or when the Ministry needs a few necks to bite into. That's really the grand purpose behind all of this. Low-Humanity Kindred herding their food supply into waiting fangs.
Gallagher places his hands behind his back and raises his chin.
Seth paces around Gallagher, "You have no idea of this man's past, my dear friends. Regardless, I believe that Gallagher was brought here for a purpose. Isn't that right, old friend?"
Gallagher solemnly nods and gets on his knees, his arms outstretched to either side, his head raised high in a gesture of respect and reverence.
A few cultists follow suit and imitate Gallagher. Other devotees gather in front and try to touch the hem of Seth's robes and of his companion's shirt and jeans. They whisper about the wonders that are to come.
A few others, namely the mercs, keep the peace and ensure that nothing goes awry.
Seth proclaims, "Gallagher is here tonight so that he might rededicate himself to Typhon. He...was drawn astray. He made mistakes, but tonight, he is here to rededicate himself." The Serpent gives a smile.
He adds, his tone getting increasingly excited and feverish, "You are all gathered here to witness my dear friend, Ewan Gallagher, surrender himself to Apep's great and grand design and pledge himself to the Path, my brothers and sisters!"
The devotees go absolutely ballistic. They shout and chant their praises to Typhon, with many of them telling Seth that this is a truly blessed and wonderful thing.
Some of the cultists eagerly shake Gallagher, "Oh, brother Gallagher! Welcome, welcome to the fold."
Gallagher gives them a look and gently shoves them aside, which is in contrast to his violent and savage behavior. He just does what he's told. No need for further questions.
As Gallagher is in the middle of this farce, his mortal girlfriend breathes her last breath. She started convulsing in pain, her battered and bruised body writhing in the hospital bed.
The doctors and nurses try everything they can to save the poor woman's life, but all efforts are for naught.
She was put there in that hospital bed, savagely beaten and her spine shattered by a certain ex-Sheriff.
Now, he tries to seek "god" and move on with his Unlife. He figures he might as well throw in his lot with the High Priest and see what Seth's promised "twofold restoration" is all about.
The clueless cultists jubilantly celebrate an addition to the cult. They are always eager for more to be initiated into the fold, to be accepted and drawn in by their new family and the ethereal power of Apep the Serpent.
The devotees clap and chant as Seth continues his sermon, Gallagher kneeling down next to him, head held high, eyes almost tearing up with blood.
The cultists all marvel at the tears of blood, for this is an unusual sight indeed. They excitedly tell Seth about what's happening.
Seth merely shrugs and smiles as way of response.
Gallagher releases a guttural scream into the night as Seth and the others watch with looks of contentment, some of them clapping and dancing around in circles.
This continues as Seth's voice takes on an almost-chanting cadence, "Do you, Ewan Gallagher, hereby vow to to follow the Path of Typhon and adhere to its Convictions?"
Gallagher looks up with bloody tears in his eyes, "I--I do."
Seth looks satisfied, "Then, let it be so in the presence of your brothers and sisters. Rise, brother Gallagher. Throw off the shackles of modernity and embrace the true Path."
Gallagher shakily stands up, "Th--thank you, Seth." He lets out a choked laugh.
The Serpent embraces Gallagher. The Viper tells his buddy in a comforting and smooth tone, "It will all be fine, my friend. Remember what I promised you, yes?"
Gallagher nods, "Of course. Thank you, Seth."
Seth pulls back and wipes the sanguine tears away with his cold fingers. Gallagher looks around as his fellow cultists smile warmly at him. They pat his back and congratulate him for joining them.
"Brother Gallagher!! Typhon smiles upon you this night!!!"
"Praise be, brother Gallagher! May the Serpent continue to illuminate your way, my dear friend."
"Welcome to our little family, brother Gallagher."
Gallagher remains stony through it all and makes his way to a corner of the room. He leans against the wall, arms folded, looking all casual-like.
The cultists do not seem to mind or care that he's a little distant. They keep away. They just quietly celebrate the fact that they've got a new recruit, even though the former Sheriff of Dubai has no intention of drinking the Kool-Aid.
Speaking of the "Kool-Aid," Seth gestures for some cultists to go and fetch some Serpent Water from the nearby storerooms.
So, what is this Serpent Water?
Well, it's the water from the small river that runs through the grounds. Yep, it's basically unpurified industrial runoff. It smells fucking rancid and tastes even worse.
Since vampires have no respiratory functions, they can't really smell it or get poisoned from it (should they ingest it), so that's good (for them).
For the poor (mortal) suckers in this compound, however, it's another story. The cultists are impelled (either via pressure or...other means) to drink up.
As such, reports of waterborne diseases are quite rampant, but Seth strictly forbids any kind of medical aid (even the most rudimentary kind) to be given to those who get sick.
He says it's a test of their faith in Typhon. If they make it, it means their faith is unshakeable and they are therefore worthy of greater gifts, like a bigger place to stay in, less work, or some such.
If not, well, the mercs gotta burn the body and get rid of all the evidence lest anyone come looking for their friend and/or loved one.
The High Priest then begins to slowly walk around, greeting some of his followers and accepting their repeated vows of loyalty and service.
Seth is as smooth, charismatic, and "friendly" as always.
The cultists return with an earthen pot filled with this nasty-ass Serpent Water. It's literally brown and the smell is so sharp and vile that some individuals can't help but cover their noses and grimace.
Seth's watchful eyes fall upon a man in his late-20s with dark red hair, rimless geometric glasses, and a clean-shaven face. He's sitting there on the floor with a blank look on his face. A few other cultists sit near him.
This man's skeptical eyes dart to and fro. Seth knows all to well (and has known for quite a while, actually) that this redheaded man is an undercover journalist preparing to write an exposé on the cult.
Seth is just biding his time, coiling up and waiting for the right opportunity to strike. For now, he has...other matters to attend to. He waves off the devotees as he makes his way to the journalist.
The journalist looks around, his eyes filled with a mixture of concern and fear. He gets up and holds out his hand, "Um...g--great sermon, sir."
Seth gives him a sideways look, "I never did get your name...?"
"Uh...it's Theo McClain, s--sir."
Seth clicks his tongue, "No need to be so formal with me. And what did you do before you joined us, hmm?"
Theo gulps but quickly answers, "I was a writer for a major newspaper. N--Nothing too glamorous, but I wanted...more from my life."
As an investigative journalist for the New York Times, he knows that the best lies are oft-times peppered with a few bits of truth. This is one of those cases.
Seth just smiles and nods. He thinks for a moment and then gives no response. He's always trying to get a sense of his "followers," as he sometimes calls them.
The devotees place the pot of gross water on the stage, bow their heads, and move aside.
Seth places his hand around Theo and leads him to the front. They step up the stage and Theo's mouth falls agape. He can feel a cool aura around the Viper.
Theo also has to stop himself from gagging. The Serpent Water is gonna be the worst thing he's ever gonna have to taste in his life. His entire body is tensed up and he tries not to shake in disgust.
Seth beckons Theo to taste some of the Serpent Water.
Theo is really in the spotlight now.
Seth explains, "Science will tell us that this...holy water is poisonous. But, I say...TO HELL WITH SCIENCE! TO HELL WITH THEIR METHODS!" Seth's face lights up with a smirk.
The High Priest tells Theo, "Drink, my friend." His tone is a mix of firm and gentle.
Theo takes a few nervous steps backwards. He looks around. Everyone's watching him and the High Priest's gaze is on him.
Theo makes his choice. He shakily scoops some of the sicko water with his hand brings it up to his quivering lips. He takes a tiny sip and flinches at the taste.
He gags and a bit of the Serpent Water falls from the corners of his mouth. He looks as if he's about to throw up, but instead, he swallows the bit of Serpent Water, reluctantly.
Right now, he's REALLY gotta sell the part of being any other devoted nutjob. When the High Priest says, "JUMP!" Theo should simply respond, "How high?"
The other cultists compel and pressure the poor fella to drink some more, "Go on, brother Theo. It--It's sweet in actuality. The bitterness is an illusion foisted upon you by the corrupt institutions."
Another dreamily chimes in, "Yes, yes, the Serpent Water is the most purest forms of water to exist. Drink, brother. Drink."
Theo really has no other choice, so he goes all in and dips his cupped hand into the Serpent Water. He takes a long drink of it, shuddering in disgust as he does so.
Seth watches with a pleased smirk on his face. The cultists clap and cheer as the redheaded man drinks down the Serpent Water.
"ALL PRAISE BE TO TYPHON!"
"May the Serpent Water bring healing to your infirm body, may it cleanse it of all the unnatural pharmaceutical filth, chemicals, and toxins that have polluted your coil for far too long."
Theo tries to play it off, but the cultists won't have it.
"Drink some more, my friend. It's infinite and it HEALS you."
Theo slowly walks back, his hand on his stomach, "That was...amazing." He gives an embarrassed chuckle, "Sorry about that, everyone. It...it's my 1st time doing all this."
A random cultist bolts forward and begins to drink the water like an absolute maniac. He chugs it down and just keeps on going, his tongue lapping up the vile fluid.
Another cultist eagerly chimes in and takes some of the water in her hands. She laps it up and gulps it down with an eager gleam in her eyes.
This is disgusting.
Theo has to hold himself back from telling them that they are LITERALLY poisoning themselves with this industrial runoff water.
Another cultist runs off and comes back with a small pot. She pours it on top of Theo's head and dances with him.
Theo reluctantly plays along, forcing a smile and trying not to gag from the putrid smell coming from the pot. The water's running down his face and falling on the floor.
One of the mercs just looks around, amused, as the cultists dance around in the middle of the room.
Edwin averts his gaze. Unlike the blissfully unaware cultists, he knows where exactly that water is drawn from. He lowers his head, feeling ashamed of some of the things he partakes in.
This is the price he has to pay for life eternal...
Seth gets everyone's attention by clapping his hands a few times. Once everyone has calmed down, he smiles at them and tells them how proud he is that they have accepted this water in their bodies.
"This...holy water is a symbol of the love that you all have for our Blessed Typhon. Typhon has sent the water to you because Typhon knows that your devotion will be rewarded with greater gifts."
He proceeds, "Moreover, by ingesting this water, you demonstrate to yourselves and each other that you have successfully thrown off the shackles of modernity. Let the outsiders say what they will."
The cultists chant in unison, "Blessed be Typhon."
Seth calmly replies, "All praise be to Typhon. The Path of Typhon will save you from the evils of the world. Typhon's protection, grace, and boundless wisdom will never leave you. You must never doubt this."
The High Priest firmly says, "Never, ever, ever let doubt worm its way into your pure and vulnerable minds, my precious flock. Never let the skeptics, the doubters, the scoffers, the mockers, and the corrupt steal your faith. NEVER!"
The devotees chant, "The Serpent's divine light is at the end of this long, winding, and arduous tunnel!"
Seth nods approvingly, "Indeed. They seek to plunge you into unending confusion, but YOU know what lies on the other side, yes?"
"YES!"
Seth appears satisfied. He lifts his hands to the heavens and looks up, eyes closed. The devotees all fall silent, eyes closed, their hands raised to the ceiling.
The Serpent quietly tells his audience, "Think of your mortal coils as a bridge that leads our eternal and immortal souls to the paradise that Typhon has readied for us, for the liberated souls who have discarded their shackles of the modern world."
Seth's eyes open slightly and he smiles a sinister smile. He dismisses them and reminds them to always be watchful.
"Let no one steal this gift from you, my beloved flock. Guard it closely."
The High Priest leaves the stage and makes his way to his 2nd Haven. Edwin follows closely behind.
The cultists either go to their nearby homes. Some are milling about the place and chatting about how "great" and "awesome" and "power-packed" that sermon was.
Seth enters his 2nd Haven and turns on the dim lights. He goes inside and stands in front of the mirror. He thinks about a few things. He doesn't feel even a tinge of guilt about his actions.
The Viper does not hold back, however, and smiles at his reflection in the mirror. He likes seeing the way that he looks. His lips curl up at the thought of what he's been planning for the past few decades.
The High Priest strokes his pale cheek, "All in good time. Soon you will have what is rightfully owed to you. Soon...and very soon all will be made whole again."
Edwin knocks on the door and inquires, "Is...everything in order, sir?"
Seth snaps out of his thoughts and lets out a sigh, "Yes, everything is fine. Don't worry."
"Very well, sir."
"Edwin...I'm going to need your help tonight."
"Sir?"
Seth adjusts his chasuble, "You'll see soon enough. You look tense. Why not take a walk and clear your head a bit, hmm? I'll need you at your best for...what comes next."
Edwin picks up on how ominous those last 3 words sound. He frowns a bit.
The Serpent orders, "Go. Take a walk, try some of the food if you wish to do so. I'll call you when I'm ready and you best be ready, do you understand?"
Edwin freezes and no words seem to be able to come out.
Seth growls a low and menacing growl, "Edwin...I said, do you understand?"
The Ghoul responds, his tone low and filled with fear, "Of--Of course, sir." He pauses for a moment and adds, "I--I will be there for you, always. N--No matter what."
Seth faintly chuckles, "Very good. Now, go."
The Ghoul complies with his Domitor's "polite request" and walks off. His mind is in a bit of a fog. Edwin can't help but wonder what will happen when the time comes.
As Edwin leaves, Gallagher makes his way inside. He's got a smug look on his face. The Sand-Snake is about to say something but stops himself when he notices Edwin. He smirks.
Gallagher confidently enters Seth's Haven and looks around. He whistles, "Damn, you got a nice pad here, huh?"
Seth, in a very faux-humble manner, says, "It is all Typhon's blessings, my friend."
Gallagher gives a bit of a sarcastic chuckle, "Yeah, yeah." He looks around the place, his eyes wandering about, taking in everything. He notices the mirror on the wall.
He looks at himself and removes a piece of lint off his shoulder. Gallagher grunts in satisfaction, "Yeah, that's what I thought. So, what did you wanna see me about, huh?"
Seth invites his guest to take a seat on the sofa, "Please, take a seat. Would you like a drink?"
Gallagher declines, "Nah, after seeing your weirdo followers drink that brown water, I've kinda lost my appetite. Jesus, you actually get 'em to drink that stuff? Hahahahahaaha!"
Seth callously answers, "There's a sucker born every minute, my friend. It is the way of things."
He continues, "Let me tell you, you should've seen the look on their faces when I first offered them this...Serpent Water."
Gallagher raises an eyebrow, "Oh? What was it like?"
"1 of them threw up, another one said she'd rather eat sand, and some of them just stared into the pot, looking at the brown water, almost in a trancelike state."
Seth adds, "Point is, it was easy convincing these...people to partake of the water. They started to call it the Serpent Water, heh. The name sticks."
Gallagher pointedly asks, "Ya sure it's wise to poison our fucking food source? I mean, hey, I'm not here to tell ya how to run your show, but still."
Seth shakes his head and sighs, "You know, you need to lighten up, Ewan. When was the last time you actually enjoyed something?"
"So, that's what this is? Them...enjoying that crap?"
"People these nights enjoy all sorts of things. They indulge themselves in this vice or that. Besides, when we were kids, our own water wasn't exactly the cleanest or purest thing out there, hmm? But, we still made it, didn't we?"
Gallagher grunts, "Hmph, yeah, and we survived regardless. Yeah, I see what you mean. So, the deserving ones make it and the rest get fucked, huh?"
Seth plainly replies, "Something like that, yes."
Gallagher indifferently shrugs, "Well, hey...whatever keeps these morons in check."
Seth scoffs, "'Morons'? Gallagher, some of the people here have PHDs in fields I can't even pronounce with a straight face."
"So I've heard. What made 'em throw all that shit away, then?"
"Disillusionment with the current state of things, most likely."
The ex-Sheriff accepts that answer with a shrug, not too interested in or bothered by the flock's past.
Gallagher makes himself at home and puts his big feet up on the glass coffee table. He casually throws his head back and makes a few obnoxious noises.
"Aight, so, you said ya needed me for something tonight? Care to tell me whose skull needs bashing in?"
Seth chuckles and shakes his head, "Ah, Gallagher...ever the man of action. No, I need you to bring someone to me."
"Oh? Who?"
Seth explains, "I've found out that certain...members of my flock are somehow making contact with the outside world. As you know, we strictly forbid cellphones and the like here."
Gallagher huffs, "Ya don't say. Sucks to be 'em, heh heh."
"Indeed. In any case, it has come to my attention that a man by the name of Waleed has been making calls to family friends of his. The specifics of how I came about this troubling news don't matter. Suffice to say, I can't allow this."
The ex-Sheriff grunts, "Specifics never matter to me. So, what do ya want me to do with the guy? Break his bones and send him a message he'll never forget?" The Setite looks far too eager to inflict violence upon this poor, innocent guy.
Seth coolly responds, "As much as I enjoy your blunt approach, I'd like you to do the honors of personally bringing Waleed to a room I've had the guards set up."
Taking on a grim tone, the High Priest adds, "I wish to teach this mortal the error of his ways."
Seth gives Gallagher a description of Waleed's appearance and where he might be at this time of the night.
Gallagher pats his hands together, "Okeydokey. 1 unconscious raghead coming up!" He stands up and leaves the Haven of his fellow Setite.
Gallagher cracks his knuckles and prepares to do what has been asked of him. The former Sheriff of Dubai is gonna make sure that Waleed regrets everything he's ever done.
Waleed, blissfully unaware, is tending to some of the crops in the garden.
Edwin follows the High Priest's instructions and keeps walking around the compound, aimlessly. The Ghoul is sweating profusely and trembling slightly.
Waleed waters a few nearby plants and gently strokes their leaves. He thinks about his dying son and hopes that Typhon will be able to heal his young body.
The mortal sighs, "Oh, Typhon...please help my son."
It's a dark and eerie night. There are a few clouds in the sky and a gust of wind blows by, rustling the leaves.
Gallagher approaches the area, his expression hard and his posture even harder. The guards near this area have conveniently been sent elsewhere.
The Setite nods over to Waleed, "Hey, you Waleed?"
Waleed graciously responds, "Yes, I am. Welcome, brother Gallagher. You have made a wise choice...to rededicate oneself to Typhon--"
Gallagher steps forward and brutally punches Waleed in the face, knocking the guy out.
He scoffs, "Yeah, I get it."
Gallagher picks up the unconscious Waleed and slings the guy over his shoulder. He grunts and groans as he takes the body to the room that the guards have prepared for the High Priest's special little interrogation.
The Sand-Snake goes to the door and repeatedly knocks, "Hey! You in there! I've got the guy. You ready?"
Gallagher receives an affirmative answer from the guard and the rusted metal door creaks open.
It's a very clichéd room- a single orange lightbulb hangs from the ceiling, barely illuminating the surroundings. The room is fairly small and there are only a few plastic chairs present.
The walls are a dreary and sickly color, and the air is cold and filled with an unnerving presence.
The guard helps Gallagher tie Waleed's hands behind a chair with some black ropes. Gallagher also suggests that Waleed's feet be tied to the chair as well.
The ex-Sheriff nods and motions for the guard to get lost.
He walks over to Waleed and pulls up another chair. He slaps Waleed awake and the man lets out a shriek of terror.
He looks around and notices that he's been tied up. Gallagher leans forward and smirks at the terrified mortal.
"You done fucked up, towel head."
Waleed's eyes are filled with fear and confusion. He's shaking in his chair and the ropes binding him are cutting into his flesh. A few beads of sweat drip down his forehead and down his neck.
Gallagher paces around the terrified mortal, "Someone's been fuckin' busy. Heh, how'd you fuckers even get a damn phone here, anyway?"
Waleed stammers, "I--I do not know what you are speaking of, b--brother Gallagher. Please, please, let me go. As Typhon is my witness, I have committed no wrong!"
Gallagher clicks his tongue, "Tough luck, compadre. If it's all a big misunderstanding, then you have nothing to worry about."
Waleed lowers his head and begins muttering a prayer of some sort. Gallagher shakes his head and scoffs.
After a few minutes, Seth enters the room. He's holding his snake cane, and his gaze falls on the shivering mortal. The Serpent smirks a bit and dismisses the guard.
Edwin has his head lowered in shame. He quietly stands in the corner and avoids looking at Waleed.
Seth approaches Waleed and smiles, "Hello, my friend. Waleed, right?"
Waleed pleads, "Brother Steale! T--There has been a mistake! Brother Gallagher here attacked me. It was entirely unprovoked--"
Seth delivers a swift uppercut to Waleed's gut. The mortal lets out a choked gasp and flinches in pain. Tears begin to roll down his face and he coughs and gags. His stomach hurts like hell after that brutal punch.
Waleed lets out a few hitched and strained breaths. He sniffles, "I--I have done nothing wrong! Please...please, believe me, brother Steale!"
Seth's smile fades, "Ah, Waleed. Let's not waste each others' time, yes? Hmm?"
Waleed gulps and looks around the room. For a few moments, he stares at Edwin. The Ghoul gives him a pained look but says nothing. Waleed's gaze goes back to Seth.
Seth coolly states, "I know that you have been secretly contacting the outside world, my friend."
"..."
"Your silence, Waleed, speaks volumes. I don't care about the reasons for such a brazen act. No, what I want to know is...WHO helped facilitate this treachery?"
Waleed starts shaking his head frantically, "No, no, no!! Please, please, believe me!! I--I have done nothing of the sort!!" He's desperate.
Seth motions for Gallagher to go to town on Waleed. The former Sheriff is all too gleeful to comply with the High Priest's wishes. He delivers a brutal punch to Waleed's face. A nasty cracking sound is heard.
The mortal lets out a pained scream and begins weeping.
Gallagher quickly follows it up with a punch to the gut. Waleed grunts in pain and his chair tilts over a bit. He looks up with blood dripping down his chin and onto his shirt. A tooth flies out of his mouth and lands on the floor.
The Setite is far from done. He puts 1 hand around Waleed's neck and repeatedly punches him with the other till his knuckles are covered in blood. Waleed's face is an absolute mess now, all battered and bruised. Blood is everywhere.
It's a gruesome sight.
Edwin shuffles uncomfortably on his feet and keeps his head down.
Gallagher can feel his Beast roaring within him. He wants to kill the poor fucker and drain his body dry. His eyes are filled with a bestial light. Waleed lets out a choked gasp. The Setite's iron grip is quite strong around the mortal's neck.
Seth intervenes by gently moving Gallagher aside. The High Priest proceeds to duck in front of Waleed and tell him calmly and politely, "I know that you would never betray me or this beautiful family we've created together." The Viper gives a comforting smile.
Some more blood spills out of Waleed's mouth. He's breathing heavily, his breath labored and pained. His entire body is wracked with pain. Waleed can feel his face swelling up from all the brutality he's been subjected to.
Gallagher growls and gets ready for another round, but Seth raises his hand up, "Ah, ah, ah. I trust that Waleed here will make the right decision. Isn't that right, my friend?"
Seth continues, "So, who facilitated this? Was it another devotee? Was it someone else? A guard, perhaps? Who helped you make contact with the outside world?"
Waleed's eyes quickly go over to the nerve-racked Ghoul standing in the corner. Edwin's eyes widen and he looks at Waleed as if to say, "DON'T SAY ANYTHING!" But, alas, he's powerless to speak up now.
Waleed quickly looks to the opposite end of the room and doesn't answer Seth's question.
Edwin's heartrate eases a bit. He sighs in relief and tries to calm himself down. He's been sweating bullets all throughout the interrogation.
The Ghoul can't help but feel a pang of guilt as he watches his Domitor inflict pain and suffering upon an innocent man who simply wanted to check on his cancer-stricken son.
Seth sighs and looks at the grimy ground, "I see. Very well, then."
Waleed looks up at the High Priest, "Ple--Please forgive me, brother Steale."
Seth remains silent as he calmly walks behind Waleed. His fangs slowly extend and he bites into the back of Waleed's neck. The mortal lets out a terrified scream of pain as Seth drinks him dry.
The blood trickles down from his wounds and onto his shirt.
Edwin shuts his eyes and looks away, the grisly sight too much for him to bear. He can hear Seth slurping down Waleed's blood and the mortal's labored breathing.
Soon, the labored breathing ceases completely.
Seth releases Waleed's body from his bite and angrily shoves the entire chair (along with the dead body) to the ground. He snarls and licks blood from the corners of his mouth.
Gallagher rolls his shoulder and pops his neck, "Whew! Wow!"
Seth, still on a high from all that blood he just drank, growls at his Ghoul, "Edwin, come here. I have another job for you." He wipes some blood from his chin and licks it off his fingers.
Edwin hesitates and remains frozen in his spot.
"EDWIN!" Seth's eyes turn into slits and his voice takes on a more menacing timbre. The Viper glares at his Ghoul and Edwin begins to move forward, legs shaking in fear.
Seth orders, "I want you to dispose of the body this time. Not Gallagher, not the guards. You."
Seth sternly adds, "Edwin, do you understand what I'm telling you?"
Edwin shakily nods, "Y--Yes, sir."
Seth straightforwardly instructs, "Dispose of the body. These people...they come to cut themselves off from the outside world, to be freed and liberated from the shackles of modernity. WHY, WHY do they taint and spoil it?!"
Gallagher snickers at his buddy's sudden outburst.
He chimes in, "You gotta plug the leaks, man. The SI's listening in on everything these nights."
Seth icily concurs, "Exactly. I can't risk the forces of the Second Inquisition stumbling upon this place. It'd be nothing short of catastrophic, Edwin."
Edwin remains speechless throughout this entire exchange. He keeps his head down and doesn't make eye contact with either of the Setites. He doesn't even look at the dead body of the mortal he was unable to save.
Edwin riskily asks, "How did you know about Waleed's err...indiscretions, sir?"
Seth vaguely answers, "I have my ways, Edwin. Why?"
Edwin hastily replies, "N--No reason, sir. I'm sure that you have many things to attend to. I'll take care of the body as you ordered me to do, sir." He quickly bows his head in respect and gets to work.
Gallagher remarks, "Man, this is what I shoulda done as Sheriff of fucking Dubai! Grimy rooms, beating the shit outta people, and getting to do all kinds of stuff!"
He looks up at the ceiling and mockingly adds, "Typhon, if you're listening, let me have this forever."
Seth chuckles, "Yes, yes. You're a...natural at being Sheriff. It's a shame that Prince Angela never saw your true potential."
Gallagher dismissively waves his hand, "Ah, fuck her. Goddamn Aussie Gangrel bitch. Too soft and kind for her own good. She had great tits, though, heh heh."
Seth raises an eyebrow but says nothing. He looks over at Edwin. The Ghoul has already picked up the body and is on his way to dispose of it.
He casually reminds his retainer, "I'll leave the method up to you. Use the nearby incinerator or bury him far away."
Edwin sighs and goes about this grim and thankless task of disposing of a man for whose death he bares some responsibility. The Ghoul silently makes his way outside, the body in his arms.
Meanwhile, Seth leaves the room and heads to his Haven. Gallagher follows him.
"So, that was fucking exciting. Any more little lost lambs need a good ass-thrashing?" The Setite looks as if he's ready for another fight. He cracks his knuckles and bounces around on his heels.
The High Priest tells him to calm down and that he's done enough for the night.
Seth stops in his tracks and turns on his heel, "Actually, I'd like to pay someone a quick visit."
"Who?"
"That redheaded man who partook of the Serpent Water. I want to...get to know him a bit more."
Gallagher grunts, "He looked kinda shifty to me. What's his deal?"
"I've recently found out that Theo McClain is an investigative journalist for the New York Times. He's apparently gearing up to write an exposé on my...little family that I've built here."
"So, we fuckin' kill him, right?"
Seth firmly says, "NO. Well, not yet, anyway. No, we...toy with our prey, make him sweat a bit, get him to ease his guard down. Only then can we strike, when he's at his most vulnerable."
Gallagher nods, "Oooooh, nice! Sneaky, sneaky." He makes a few cat-like pawing gestures.
On the way, Seth muses, "Hell, I might even give him an interview--"
Gallagher's eyes widen, "Whoa, that--that's like a major Masquerade breach right there..."
"Then, it'll be the kind of interview that remains...unpublished, heh."
After about 5 minutes at Theo's shack (which is shared with 3 other people), the 2 Setites take their leave. Theo is shaken-up by the end of it, he's not sure if they're on to him or if he's in the clear.
He goes to the nearby outhouse and pulls out a small recorder that he managed to smuggle into the compound (thanks to bribing a guard and some other tricks). He takes a deep breath and starts talking into it, his voice low and hushed.
"Theo McClain here. It's been a...year since I've infiltrated the cult of the one they call Seth Steale. Seeing the so-called 'High Priest' up-close for the first time was...an experience, to say the least."
He adds, "I can see why some of the other members find him so charismatic and...charming. There's something about him that draws you in, makes you want to listen to what he has to say."
He pulls the flush, "He's only ever seen during the nights. Maybe it's a part of the schtick around here, heh. There's also a disturbing amount of sanguine talk amongst the cultists."
"A--As in blood. I'm not sure if it was elaborate trick or some behind-the-scenes theatrics, but I saw a grown man cry tears of blood. R--Refer to other recordings on subject of blood."
Theo hears a few guards coming his way, "Theo McClain with the NYT signing out. This place...it's fucking weird...blurgh and that water. I--I'm gonna be sick. Oh shit--"
He throws up all over the place and the guards are close by. They order him to come out and Theo doesn't want to look suspicious, so he complies with their request.
The guards curse at Theo and order him to clean up his own sick. He reluctantly grabs the cleaning supplies from a storeroom and gets to work. Another cultist shakes his head at Theo and chides him for his lack of faith.
Gallagher tells Seth that he's gonna go hang around and maybe bite into some more cultists. He asks if he should kill a few, but Seth orders him to NOT do so.
As Gallagher roams around, he notices the obvious contrast between the shanty huts shared by many cultists to the fancy villas occupied by the more elite members of the cult.
The Sand-Snake spots a woman crying in a corner. Gallagher can feel his Beast wanting to attack the mortal, but he manages to suppress it.
Edwin chooses to bury the body. Something about incinerating a body brings great unease to his heart. The Ghoul picks out a fairly remote spot not too far away from the compound. The spot is covered in weeds and tall grass.
The ground is pretty hard here, but Edwin makes do with his shovel. After great effort, he rolls the exsanguinated corpse into the deep hole and begins to cover it with dirt. He silently prays for Waleed and hopes that Typhon will forgive his sins.
Wiping sweat from his brow, Edwin takes a final look at the unmarked grave and lets out a sad sigh.
"I--I am so sorry, Waleed. Please...forgive me. Had I known something as mundane as a cellphone would have led to such a thing, I would not have..." he trails off, feeling the weight of guilt pressing down on his shoulders.
Edwin goes back inside the car, looking and feeling like a tired mess. He starts the vehicle up and drives away, the dust trailing behind him. The Ghoul thinks about how many more people he'll have to bury.
He shakes his head and tries to put the thought out of his mind, knowing full well that he agreed to this- life eternal in exchange for his eternal servitude.
To sever such a Bond now would be foolish, and would cause great pain and suffering. So, Edwin carries on, doing the bidding of his Domitor, whether he likes it or not.
Before finding himself in the service of the High Priest, Edwin was an unofficial tour guide in Uganda. He had recently received a scholarship to go and study English Literature and History in the UK.
His goal was to become a professor or a writer, but alas, such things were not meant to be. He made the terrible mistake of initiating a conversation with the man who would soon become his Domitor.
Seth was on a hunting trip (of what kind remains unclear) throughout East Africa, visiting various locations and making the acquaintance of many locals and building connections with the Ministry in that part of the world.
The Serpent found Edwin's accent and overall demeanor quite charming, and eventually made the young man his Ghoul.
Back at the cult...
Joyce and Tristan, the Setite duo, arrive at the front gate of the compound. Joyce has a look of displeasure on her face. The Viper looks around and clicks her tongue. Tristan gives a nod to the guards standing near the entrance.
Joyce bitterly remarks, "Hmph, this place. Again."
Tristan counters, "C'mon, Joyce. It's a good feeding ground for us. Anyway, we're not here for that. Are you sure Seth's here?"
"Yes. Let's go tell him what that Assamite told us."
"Let's."
A guard escorts the duo to the front of Seth's 2nd Haven. Joyce knocks on the door and waits.
Seth opens the door and looks surprised to see Joyce and Tristan. He immediately senses that something is amiss and asks them what happened.
Tristan answers, "That Assamite, Svetlana. She's asking about The Witch."
Seth gives them a sideways look, confused, "Svetlana. How is she? Did she come with you? Where is she now?"
Joyce replies, "She was at Elysium, but I think she left soon after."
Seth inquires, "Why is she looking for The Witch?"
Tristan shrugs, "Hell if I know."
Seth impatiently presses, "And how is she? Is she OK? Did she seem frightened or anything?"
Joyce frowns, "Who cares? All we need to know is that she's asking about The Witch. I say we leave her to it. She'll find that crazy Tremere or get turned to ash trying."
Seth hisses and claps back at her, "Don't say that, Joyce! Yes, I know where Saoirse is. You know where she is, why didn't either of you say anything?"
Tristan responds, "Because we don't trust those bloody Assamites, Seth. We've got a good thing going on here, why bother with the trouble?"
Joyce concurs, "Exactly. What do you care? Why do you wanna get involved?"
Seth firmly tells them, "I'm getting involved because I care about Svetlana, damnit!"
The 2 are taken aback by Seth's sudden change in tone and expression. They look at each other for a moment, wondering how to respond.
Joyce sighs, "Fine, we'll tell her, but this better not bite our asses down the line."
Seth shakes his head, "It won't. Maybe Svetlana can finally get rid of that pestering Usurper for us, eh?"
Tristan grunts, "Bloody Irish cunt. Never did like that one. Well, if there's nothing else, we'll take our leave." He begins to walk off, but notices that Joyce isn't moving.
She looks at Seth and asks, "How's the cult going?"
Seth equably answers, "A few leaks, but nothing that won't be plugged...eventually."
Tristan turns around and takes on a more humble tone, "Err...High Priest, I'm...feeling a wee bit hungry, you don't mind if I--"
Seth lazily waves his hand, "You may feed from my flock. That is what they are here for, after all. Just remember: if you kill them, YOU dispose of them."
Tristan bows his head and leaves. Joyce follows him closely to make sure that he doesn't get carried away while feeding.
Seth enters his Haven and paces around. He thinks about a few things. As much as he hates to admit it, he is starting to develop feelings for Svetlana.
When he first saw her green eyes all those weeks ago, something long dormant stirred inside of him. He feels an undeniable connection to this Assamite.
The Viper wonders if perhaps it is destiny or fate at play, or if it is something else entirely. Whatever the case, he knows that he will see Svetlana again very soon.
He wants to see her again.
For now, however, he puts these conflicting and angsty feelings aside and focuses on running his cult. Seth has a lot of work ahead of him. As he's busy meditating, a memory from long ago resurfaces.
A booming voice calls out, "THE ASSAMITE! THE ASSAMITE! THE ASSAMITE WILL BE YOUR DOWNFALL!"
It was uttered by an unhinged Malkavian who had walked in on Seth and his Sire while they were conducting what, at first sight, looked like a ritual of some sort.
The Malkavian had been struck by a vision and was compelled to find Seth and Rafael in a crypt deep within the streets of a still underdeveloped Al-Kushraf.
Rafael had told his Childe that there was nothing to worry about, but the young Viper was unnerved by the words that this deranged man had uttered.
So, Seth grabbed a wooden stake and rammed it through that Lunatic's chest. The look on the man's wrinkly face was one of shock and disbelief- he had walked into something far more sinister than a mere Setite ritual.
That was decades ago, when Rafael would often test the faith of his Childe in very...unconventional ways. Seth never failed him once, never. But now, all those years have gone by and Rafael has chosen to go into a Torpor.
The memories, however, will live on in Seth's mind...
The Malkavian in question was eventually decapitated and completely forgotten by the rest of the Kindred as time rolled on. Rafael's Torpored body currently lies in a sarcophagus somewhere in Cairo.
Seth knows where exactly it is. His Sire made him swear to not disturb him until the appointed time. It was Rafael's way of saying farewell to his Childer. Seth always suspected that there was more to Rafael going into Torpor than meets the eye. Still...
The sands of time and memory have buried that secret of what Seth and Rafael did deep beneath the dunes, and no amount of digging will bring it up.
No amount of digging CAN bring it up.
As the night goes on, the High Priest meets up with some of his wealthier devotees and greets them all. He takes time to "counsel" them about what lies on the other side of life and what will happen after their death.
He tries his best to "convince" them to make certain...alterations to their wills. They are pleased with the High Priest's "answers" to their never-ending stream of "questions".
After that, Seth addresses a small gathering of the not-so-well-off (but not entirely destitute, either) layer of his cult. Their concerns, as far as they have any in this place, revolve around who gets to pick the fruits and who gets to clean the toilets and such.
Lastly, as if by reluctant and silent demand, Seth spends a few moments with the poorest members of his cult. Most of them, tragically, are migrant workers who are now stuck here in the UAE after having their passports seized by the "gracious and kind" Emirati authorities.
It's an awkward interaction at best, and Seth, despite his smooth charm, finds himself quite unprepared to address some of the more heartfelt questions of his cult members.
Some simply want to see their families again. Others want to access a computer so they send what little money they have back home as remittances to their loved ones for medical expenses, school fees, etc.
Seth, being the woefully out of touch guy that he is, merely proffers, "This life and the trials and tests that come with it are temporary- here 1 second, gone in the next...like the blink of an eye."
The poor mortals all nod their heads, though most seem a bit puzzled.
The High Priest then smiles and adds, "When you truly are at the end of this bridge...you will look back at it all and laugh. For what doesn't kill you, only makes you stronger."
Fucker's quoting Nietzsche. Of course, these poor people have never heard of such a person and are none the wiser for it. Some of them do, however, agree that it makes sense in a way.
Seth continues to lead them on (to nowhere) and admonishes them to work harder, ignore their current circumstances, and focus on Typhon's great plan (tm). After that, the Serpent has his guards escort these people to a different part of the compound, away from his Haven.
Can't have the rabble dirtying up the place, after all. Edwin watches on in silence, a bit concerned and even disturbed at Seth's blatant disregard for his fellow man.
Gallagher hears the whole thing and finds it quite boring. He's just in it to bust skulls, break bones, kick ass, and drink some blood. He looks forward to his next fight and thinks about who he could fuck up next. A smile forms on the ex-Sheriff's face.
A majority of the cultists are disoriented, demoralized, disillusioned layers of the middle class who are simply incapable of responding to the many happenings of the world around them in a coherent way. They are, quite simply, lost.
Some of them had jobs and good-paying positions that could have allowed them to have a better quality of life back in the real world, but they felt so empty inside and gave it up just to...feel something, anything.
This was yet another desperate attempt to "find themselves". Or maybe this was some weird midlife crisis, no one's quite sure because it's REALLY all over the place.
A few of these people do, however, believe they're at some "self-realization retreat". It's something to that effect. Some are still absolutely confused, but hey, at least they're happy and can drink "Serpent Water" now.
The inevitable cholera outbreaks are gonna be great fun. Truly, Typhon is smiling upon the faithful and righteous servants, Seth included.
Regardless, Seth has every faith in his cult and knows that they will all find salvation at the end of their journey. What this "salvation" looks like is anyone's guess.
Whether they'll find it dead, alive, or otherwise. At least it's "guaranteed".
As night fades away and dawn approaches, the compound's members return to their places for a day's rest. Some of them will go out for hard and back-breaking work under the shining sun.
Seth has decided to spend a few nights amongst (but not necessarily close to) his flock. So, he has Edwin prepare the bedroom, close the window shutters, and make sure the thick blackout curtains are closed.
Seth lets out a sigh of relief and prepares to go to bed. As he rests, the events of the past few nights and the whole situation in general keep swirling around in his mind.
He thinks back to that final test that Rafael had given him. He remembers his Sire's words of advice: "It will be the hardest thing you'll ever have to do. So...have some faith, Seth." The Serpent sighs and hopes that his Sire is proud of what he's achieved in the decades that followed.
The next few nights were bound to get more interesting, that much is certain.
Chapter 9: Which Witch?
The sun begins its ever so grandiose ascent, bathing the land below it in light. Seth is, of course, sleeping through it all and is in a state of perfect repose (as are all the other Kindred in this part of the globe).
The mortals begin to go about their day, unaware of the immortals who sleep the day amongst them, and bite into them at night. But, Seth and the other Kindred will be up soon, for they cannot sleep forever.
In time, the sun makes its retreat into the other side of the horizon and darkness returns to this corner of the world. As Seth's eyes open up, his Beast roars for sustenance, the High Priest prepares to see how his flock has been faring.
They've been spending double-digit hours toiling under the relentless sun, so he supposes it's been well...fair enough. The cultists are way too eager for the High Priest to bite into their necks or wrists.
On the other side of this vast city...
Svetlana stirs awake from her day-sleep. The Banu Haqim Neonate got home late last night, almost as the sun was about to rise. She had to watch some makeup artist's kid and it went on for a bit longer than expected. It wasn't as if she had a choice, really.
She needs the money to survive in a place like this. So, she stayed and was constantly looking at the clock. By the time she had returned to her Haven, the sun was already peeking over the horizon, threatening to burn her into ash if she didn't hurry up inside.
The first thing the Neonate does after she wakes up is send a text message to her Sire, John: "Testing text message. I just want to see if my SIM still working. Pls ignore. Thanks."
John texts back after a few moments: "LOL, K. np. so, u busy tonite?"
"Da. More babysitting work. What about you?"
"Dojo still closed :-( so, I think i'll hang out w/ abdullah or try 2 find out more about the racecar drvr."
Svetlana's cold and pale fingers move across the phone's screen: "I am not sure I will be able 2 see u tonight. Last night, I got home 2 late."
John responds: "Oh, my. Did u get hurt or something?"
"Nyet. All is fine. Do not worry about me, John."
";-) stay safe out there, Svetlana."
Svetlana responds: "U 2 ;-)"
She puts her iPhone aside and throws her head back. She sharply exhales and rubs the sides of her neck.
After a few moments, she goes over to her bathroom, showers, and gets dressed. She puts on a black blouse, some skinny jeans, a few bracelets, and a pair of tattered sandles.
As she's about to leave her Haven, an all-too-familiar voice of a small child calls out, "Setlana! Setlana! You look so pretty!"
The Neonate's eyes widen and she whirls around, but the child is nowhere in sight. She mutters to herself, "How is that possible? Chloe? Where are you?"
"I'm here, Setlana! I'm here, can't you see me?"
Svetlana nervously gulps and makes her way to the source of the sound. She reaches the bathroom and stops in the middle.
Chloe giggles but is nowhere to be seen, "What are you doing here, Setlana? Can we play hide-and-seek again?"
Svetlana has a look of anguish on her face. This child is supposed to be dead, how is she communicating with her? Svetlana isn't sure if she's losing it, or if Chloe is really a ghost, or if it's just her Beast trying to screw with her head.
The Assamite Neonate clears her throat and says, "Nyet, not hide-and-seek. Not now."
The child conveys her disappointment by making a sad sigh. Svetlana tells little Chloe to stay put, but not in a harsh manner. Either way, she wants to get to the bottom of this.
She has to, she can't let it go on like this.
Chloe happily obliges and makes a few whoosh and swoosh noises, the wet towel on Svetlana's towel rack whips back and forth in time with Chloe's playful sounds.
The Neonate stares in shock and horror. Her eyes widen and her jaw drops. She shakes her head and begins muttering something or the other. She patiently tells little Chloe to stay quiet.
"Okie, Setlana! I go and play with TEDDY!" Chloe's voice carries a faint echo-like tone. Svetlana wonders if the little girl has been here all along, just playing tricks on her.
Svetlana goes through her Haven from top to bottom, but there's no physical place for a 5-year-old child to hide in, and yet, it feels like someone's here...like Svetlana is being watched and followed.
The Assamite Neonate curses under her breath. She begins to leave but hesitates at the doorway.
With a pensive look of regret, she says, "I...am so sorry...Chloe."
The ghost of the child doesn't respond. Instead, a random matryoshka doll falls to the ground and is cracked. Svetlana steps outside of her Haven and closes the door, hoping that Chloe (or whoever that was) will be quiet and calm down.
She's not in the mood to deal with that, or her own inner guilt at the moment. Right now, she has other children to watch over for tonight. But, before doing so, she needs to find a warm neck to bite into.
Showing up to a babysitting job while distracted by the ceaseless Hunger is just...all kinds of wrong. So, Svetlana finds a nice victim- a young man who looks about the right age and is tired enough, thus incapable of putting up a fight or resisting.
She lures him into a dark corner of a basement parking area, drinks from him, and leaves him alive with a very pleasant smile on his face. She makes sure to lick his wound shut. She leaves him slumped against a wall and goes to work.
On the way to work, she decides to find out more about this Witch. Absalom said she is a Tremere who specializes in such matters. If anything, maybe she might be able to shed some much-needed light on what (the who is obvious) troubles Svetlana so much.
The why is also a component of the puzzle that Svetlana does not possess. But, the what should be an easier thing to find out. The why is going to require some hard work, time, and perhaps even more effort from her.
Svetlana makes her way to the first house for her babysitting work. It's in a fairly average neighborhood in the city. The client is a single mother who needs someone to watch over her 2 small kids. They're very cute kids, too.
The Assamite takes great care of them, making sure that they've eaten dinner and are tucked into bed at the right time and all that stuff. Svetlana stays with them while their mother goes out for her part-time job.
The kids love listening to the song "Habibi Ya Nour El-Ain". It's a famous Arabic pop song and Svetlana kinda likes how catchy it is. She has the kids sing it together.
Her Arabic still needs some work.
One of the children- the younger one, is very intrigued by her accent and tries to emulate it, but his effort is in vain, heh.
The other little boy asks where she's from and she says she's from the Ukraine SSR. The child's eyes are wide and clueless. So, Svetlana simplifies it and just tells the child that she's from Russia. This is an easier explanation (for better or for worse) to get through to them.
As Svetlana sings other songs with them, she checks her phone's clock to make sure she has enough time to attend to other matters tonight; she doesn't want to get (almost) caught by the sun like last night.
After she puts the kids to sleep and they have all their stuffed animals surrounding them, Svetlana takes out her phone and checks the time yet again.
She releases a small sigh of relief. 1 of the boys twitches in his sleep. Svetlana quickly puts her phone away and places her cold hand on his head. She softly coos and whispers some calming words.
The boy goes back to sleep and she slowly removes her hand.
She spends about a good few hours with them. Their mom comes back; she looks tired and bleary-eyed. She quickly pays the vampire the agreed-upon amount of dirhams and tells Svetlana to leave.
The single mother says she doesn't want anyone (especially a foreigner like Svetlana) staying at her house for too long, lest she gets a bad reputation amongst her neighbors.
Svetlana looks taken aback by that, but decides not to say anything in way of protest. She thanks the client for her generosity, grabs her things, and takes her leave. Before Svetlana steps out, she takes another quick look at the house and gives a small smile.
Next stop? Elysium. Maybe she can talk to someone who knows more about this Witch and where she might be hiding out- Absalom had only said that she lives in this city, but he failed to tell Svetlana where EXACTLY that was.
The Banu Haqim Neonate thinks of maybe getting in contact with some other Kindred in the city.
But, who?
A majority of the vamps here are Setites and they aren't huge fans of the Blade of Haqim, its teachings, practices, or the fact that some of them are even in this city.
Well, they'll probably want her head (and the heads of all those who belong to the Blade) on a pike, and Svetlana doesn't want to go up against that kind of opposition. The Setites are too many for anyone, and they can't ALL be fought against.
They're far too connected and far too rich, well-connected, and privileged for that. No, there are only so many Setites that she can go up against.
But, perhaps there might be others who are not so hostile. Maybe they're not even Kindred.
Perhaps...mortals?
Anyways, Svetlana gets on the bus and sits right at the back. She keeps her head low and makes sure to avoid drawing any attention to herself. After what happened in Dubai, it's likely the SI's out and about, looking for her and any associates of hers.
She has to be cautious and careful from now on- 1 slip up (like getting caught on camera, for instance) and the rest will follow. Svetlana does her best to blend in. She's just another random passenger on a full bus.
Nothing to see here, friends.
Svetlana takes a look at her surroundings and thinks about all the things that she's seen so far. The streets go by, but not in a blur. The bus stops many times, to empty out many and take in an equal number of people. It's a nightly routine 'round these parts.
Svetlana wonders what the passengers have seen, and what they're going to see in the near future. Most passengers are either working professionals trying to catch a nap by putting their heads against the glass window.
A few are drunk, probably heading back home. A few look completely broken and confused, and some others are too lost in whatever's coming from their earphones to hear (let alone notice) where they're headed.
Svetlana pulls out her iPhone and starts checking the news and whatnot. She can feel the blood of the passengers around her. Despite being fed, the Beast still stirs within her. It's always hungry. She sighs and takes another look around.
She notices a young child in the middle seat, holding her mother's hand. The mother is asleep and the girl is looking around. She tugs at her mother's sleeve and sputters out a few words of Arabic.
The mother wakes up, sighs deeply, and goes back to sleep.
After what seems like an eternity, Svetlana finally disembarks a few feet away from her intended destination- The Grand Alhambra. Like always, this big-ass hotel looks great, glam, and grand.
Svetlana takes a look at the large structure, takes a deep breath, and prepares herself for what she has to do. As she heads towards the elevator, she spots Ms. Kawasaki from the corner of her eye.
Ms. Kawasaki shoots her fellow Assamite a nasty look and goes back to lolling around the lobby. Svetlana wonders why Ms. Kawasaki is so rude and obnoxious all the time.
Regardless, Svetlana steps into the elevator and thinks about how she can possibly get in contact with the Tremere who, quite frankly, is her only hope at this point.
The elevator climbs up a few floors. Svetlana switches elevators and waits as it keeps ascending. After a few more switches, she finally reaches the 140th floor.
As usual, the goon at the hallway points to the side and plainly tells her, "You know the drill."
Svetlana reaches into her bag and surrenders her 2 daggers to the man at the reception counter. He inspects the daggers and curtly nods, "Have a nice night."
She thanks him and turns around to enter the lounge proper, but finds herself face-to-face with a pale woman with hollow cheeks and blue eyes. She's quite thin and is dressed in a shiny cocktail dress.
The woman almost bumps into the Assamite. She quickly catches herself and apologizes.
Svetlana apologizes back and moves aside as this woman quickly saunters over to the elevator. She keeps on pressing the buttons and curses under her breath.
As the elevator approaches, the woman looks over her shoulder and faintly smiles. There's a certain tic in her eye that catches Svetlana's attention.
It's an nervous smile, but she's never seen anyone with that kind of twitch before.
Svetlana shrugs and goes in. Seth is seated on a chair, 1 leg folded over the other. He has a grin on his face and he springs up from his seat when he sees the Banu Haqim Neonate.
He greets her with outstretched arms and an overjoyed expression, "Svetlana! What brings you here?"
Svetlana is taken aback by his sudden cheeriness, but she quickly regains her composure and greets the Setite, "Good evening, Seth."
Seth faintly chuckles and sits back down, "Ah, yes, yes. Good evening, Ms. Bobrov. How are you? How are things, and uh...how's the iPhone I bought for you? All working fine? Any uh...issues?"
He awkwardly adds, "I could always pay for an extended warranty i--if you wish."
Svetlana calmly says, "Is all good. No issue with phone. Spasibo (RU: Thank you). Truly, you have done me and John great favor, Seth."
The Serpent waves his hand, "No, no. It was the least I could do for you both. Especially you."
He beckons to a seat right opposite him. Svetlana sits down and it feels quite warm. Was this seat occupied by that woman who just left the place?
The 2 sit down in awkward silence for a few moments.
Seth coughs and nervously asks, "So, uh...how's work? Those kids getting over your nerves or anything like that?" His attempt at small talk could not be any more desperate than it is.
Svetlana amicably says, "Da, is fine. They are only small children. Also, some clients very rude. But, I have to put up with it because they pay good money for someone to watch over their children while they go out for party, work, or...other things."
Seth snickers and shifts uncomfortably in his seat. Svetlana gives him a look. The Serpent awkwardly looks away.
"Anyway," Seth goes on, "I'm glad to hear that things are working out for you. Too bad the whole fashion thing with Seb didn't work out, eh?"
Svetlana winces when he brings that up, "I do not want to talk about that."
Seth's palms are facing outwards, in a gesture of placation. He leans in and says, "I understand, Svetlana. I do. But, I feel like you and I could keep helping each other out here, if you know what I mean."
Svetlana plainly responds, "We already put end to that heartbeat sensor project at mall. Now, we have to wait and see what Second Inquisition will do next."
"That's what concerns me. If push does come to shove, I suppose you're all ready to fight them?"
Svetlana looks confused, "'All' who?"
The Follower of Set gesticulates, "The Blade of Haqim, of course."
Svetlana queries, "Will the Ministry not help us? There are only few of us in city- not enough to fight SI!" There's a somewhat fearful and anxious undertone in her voice.
"Of course, of course. The Ministry will help you if and when the time comes, you have my word as High Priest of Al-Kushraf. Besides, we don't wanna step on any toes, eh? You and I are...a team, right?"
Svetlana looks at him sideways "Da, I suppose...we...are team?"
Seth puts her at ease with a smile, "I like you, Svetlana. You have a good head on your shoulders, you aren't afraid to speak your mind, and uh...you're quite...beautiful."
Svetlana is a bit taken aback, "Ah, well, t--thank you. You are very kind, Seth. I also like you too, Seth."
Seth chuckles, "Listen, I know this is short notice; since we Kindred can't do coffee, how about a drive around the city instead, hmm? What do you say? You free anytime this week?"
"I am not sure...I will have to make small adjustments to some things. But...yes, da. I am free. If you want, I could call car for renting."
"No, no, we'll take mine. My Ghoul, Edwin, will do the driving. Don't worry, he's good, heh heh."
Svetlana warmly smiles at the High Priest, but there is a bit of apprehension that is apparent in her eyes.
Seth claps his hands together, "Great, it's a date then!"
Svetlana faintly laughs and twitches, "If you want to call it like that, then...OK."
"Of course, of course. You're the kinda gal who likes to take things slow and easy, huh?"
Svetlana nods her head, still looking quite apprehensive.
The Serpent then inquires, "So, what else is on your mind? I was informed by 2 of my associates that you were looking for someone? Care to tell me more?"
"Da. I am looking for a Tremere called 'The Witch'. Do you know of her?"
"Ah, Saoirse. Yeah, I do know of her. What's your interest in her? Has she wronged the Blade in some way?"
"Nyet. Absalom said she might be able to help with some...private matters."
Seth leans forward and offers, "Oh, OK. Um...is there anything I could do from my end to help you? I do offer guidance and support of a...spiritual nature."
Svetlana politely declines, "Nyet, I can handle it. But I must find her. Do you know where she is now?"
Seth leans back in his chair, "As you wish. Just know that, if you need anything, and I mean anything, please don't hesitate to reach out to me. I'm here, Svetlana. Always. I ain't going anywhere, heh."
Svetlana maintains her guard, "I also...am going nowhere. We are Kindred, immortal."
Seth smirks and takes out his phone. He makes a few quick taps on it and asks Svetlana to wait a moment. She does so and looks around the dimly-lit lounge area.
Seth winces painfully as the light from his phone hurts his eyes, "Ah, damn. Yeah, here it is. OK. Saoirse should be at her Haven tonight. If you're free, you can go and speak to her, or you can err...sit around and chat. I personally, wouldn't mind it, haha!"
Svetlana laughs along, "Haha. I think I have few minutes to chat. Who was that woman who was just here? She looked quite...sad."
Seth stiffens up, "Ah, that's no one. N--Nobody."
"Hmm, she looks very beautiful."
Seth scoffs and mutters, "That's only because it looks pretty convincing and passable."
Svetlana furrows her brows, "What? I did not hear that."
The Sand-Snake dismissively waves his hand, "Ah, forget about that. That's nobody. No one. So, how's your Sire doing? Haven't seen him around lately."
"John is fine. I do not know if I should mention this, but I think he might need work soon. The place he teaches martial arts at is still closed. Err...do you have any open positions or anything available? Whatever it is, I am sure he would be glad to join."
Seth shrugs, "I can...ask around and see if my fellow Serpents are up to hiring someone."
"That would be much appreciated, Seth."
Awkward silence hangs in the air for a few moments. Weird smiles are exchanged. Seth breaks the silent by musing, "So...the Blade of Haqim, huh?"
"Da. I am of the Blade."
"Haha, indeed. Do you...believe in the Blade's stated goals? I don't mean to overstep my boundaries, but you seem different, which I personally like. I mean, it's nice to see you're not fanatical all the time and all of that."
Svetlana firmly, but politely answers, "I am of the Blade of Haqim. I do strongly sympathize with their ideas, goals, and what they are doing to help the world. We are not fanatics, or terrorists as some might call us."
"No, no, of course not. I meant no offense. My apologies, I didn't mean anything by it, heh. I was just...checking. You see, a lot of people say they're a part of this cause and that, but they oft-times lack the convictions or don't even believe in the cause, if you know what I mean."
"Da. I also do not like it when people pretend to be something they are not. It is not fair, nor is it polite."
"Heh, indeed. And as a member of the Blade, it's safe to assume that you have a very dim view of the state of Israel, yes?"
"Da. It is a violent and very unjust country. Why would I be interested in the country where my fellow Banu Haqim were destroyed? You see, the Israelis slaughtered so many good people, they stole the land, and now they are trying to take everything else."
With a certain spark in her eyes, she continues, "They MUST be stopped. By any means. We as Kindred are in a position to do so. We must Judge them, and hold them accountable."
Seth looks over Svetlana with a strange mixture of respect and caution, "A most noble cause, I suppose. Right, then. So, do you want me to text you Saoirse's address or would you prefer it in writing?"
Svetlana thinks for a few moments, "I do not want to risk drawing any attention to this Tremere. If it is not too much trouble, can you please write down address for me?"
Seth chuckles and goes to find a pen and some paper. He returns with a torn piece of paper that contains the address of the Tremere's Haven. But, wait, what's that on the back of the paper?
Svetlana turns it over and sees a phone number. Seth coyly smiles and plainly shrugs, faking his cluelessness about how his phone number ended up on the back of a paper.
Svetlana's eyes widen and her lips curl in a small smile.
The 2 continue to chat for a few more minutes. Seth seems eager to impress Svetlana, and she remains on guard and very guarded.
Seth strokes the emeralds on his snake cane, "So, what was growing up with your grandparents like, then?"
"My parents died in car accident. So, my babushka and dedushka raised me. They were brave people- survivors who fought bravely in the Second World War against Hitler's armies."
"Impressive."
Svetlana sighs and stares off into the distance, "But, my grandfather was very traumatized by what he had seen in the struggle against the Nazis- entire villages burnt down, women and small children massacred, and such."
Her lips quiver, "He would wake up at night screaming and crying. He rarely spoke of his experiences. When I was a younger, my grandmother told me that my grandfather lost his mind as a result of witnessing what was done to his tovarisches (RU: comrades)."
"Damn. I'm so sorry, Svetlana. Losing your parents at such a young age must've...affected you deeply."
"Very much so. I never did get to know them properly. At least now...th--they are resting in peace along with my grandparents."
"I suppose you're right. At least they were there for you, and they showed you a great deal of love."
"Hmm, da. They showed me as much love as they possibly could, even after all they had been through during those trying times. That is why I am of the Blade. What Israel is now doing is no different to what the Nazis did during the Second World War." Her tone is resolute.
Seth dryly nods and the 2 continue to talk about this and that. Seth mentions tidbits from his own past.
He says, "Ah, me? I was born in this little town in the American Northeast called Plaintry. It's easy to miss, heh. I got Embraced somewhere else, came to this place while it was still empty tombs and desert, and the rest is history. Now, I'm the High Priest of Al-Kushraf."
"I...see. What were you in mortal life?"
Seth chortles, "From a very young age, I was being prepared and groomed to take on the mantle of political leadership. But, things didn't work out as I had expected, so I had to leave."
"What happened?"
Seth sucks some air through his teeth, "I was part of the Young Republican National Federation back in the States. I was poised to assume leadership of a local chapter in my hometown, but...eh...things happened."
Svetlana presses, "What...kind of things? I hope I am not being too intrusive, Seth."
"Ah, no issue. It's been a while since I've uh...talked about any of this stuff is all, heh. Yeah, I met the man who would go on to become my Sire- Rafael De La Cruz. He and I became...close."
Seth's expression darkens, "I was at a YRNF conference in the uh...late 1940s, I think. It was some talk about the Red Menace and all that stuff. Anyways, Rafael and I were having a pleasant conversation, sharing a cigar and a few drinks. I liked him, and he seemed to like me."
Seth chuckles, "He was a approachable guy, and I was just a...weird, cocky kid letting the promises of power and leadership go straight to his head, y'know. But, we both saw eye-to-eye on a lot of things- our opinions of politics and society at the time."
"I...see. Where is your Sire now?"
Seth directly says, "In a sarcophagus somewhere deep under Cairo. He voluntarily went into Torpor and ordered me to awake him...when the time is right."
Svetlana's eyebrows shoot up, her eyes wide in shock and surprise, "What? Why? Why would he do that?"
"To make sure his Childer are...truly prepared. To test us, to see if we will remain worthy of being his Childer or not."
"Who are his other Childer?"
Seth looks away and says, "Ah, these twin brothers named, believe it or not, Sean and Shaun. Yeah, they're uh...I have no idea what they're up to on these nights. Despite them already being my Sire's Childer, they were about my mortal age, I guess."
"Hmm. Is all very interesting. Why did this Rafael Embrace you?"
Seth isn't quite sure how to answer, since he himself isn't wholly privy to why Rafael did Embrace him. He just shrugs and mutters, "I don't know. It was just...something he wanted to do, I suppose. Maybe...he saw something in me? Potential, perhaps?"
Svetlana slightly nods, "Hmm, maybe. Were you and he close after the Embrace?"
"Oh, yeah. Very much so. He helped me throughout it all, showed me the ways of our Clan, he made sure I had everything that I needed to succeed in Unlife."
Seth fondly smiles at the memories, but it quickly fades away, "He helped me a lot...but he also tested me as much."
"Tested? Like how? Writing tests?"
Seth laughs at her naivete, "Oh, no, no. His 'tests' were of a more spiritual nature, Svetlana. Sometimes, he'd lock all the doors and leave me out in the sun..."
For a moment a look of dread washes over Seth's features, "Other times, he'd make me sit around for hours, n--nights, weeks without drinking anything, without feeding...sometimes without any day-sleep."
Svetlana grimaces and exclaims, "That is terrible! A Sire is supposed to nurture, protect, and watch over their Childe, not do all this--this--"
Seth holds a finger up, "What's done is done and cannot be undone, Svetlana. I'd like to think I'm stronger for having been put through the proverbial wringer and made to prove myself worthy of being a part of the Ministry. And hey, I'm still here." He laughs, somewhat nervously.
The Neonate looks at the Serpent with pity and even some sadness, "But it is still wrong. How did you survive being left out in sun and all that?"
Seth shrugs a shoulder, "My faith in Typhon was and is my only shield. You know, us Setites take more damage from the sun than other Kindred, so when I say it PAINED, I mean it PAINED. And yet, I was determined not to give him the satisfaction of breaking me."
He shakes his head, his lower lip moving from side to side, "So, I sat in the sun, I endured it for as long as I possibly could. I suffered in silence, because I knew I would see my Sire again and be in his presence. He'd never leave me to the wolves as so many other Sires often do."
"You sound very certain of your Sire's...kindness."
Seth stretches both hands to either side of his body, "Hey, I'm still here, right? What doesn't destroy us, only serves to make us stronger."
Svetlana looks skeptical, "Hmm."
A pained expression forms on her face. A few tears of blood well up in her eyes and threaten to fall down her cheeks. She closes her eyes and tightly grits her teeth.
Something that Seth said triggered a memory that she has worked so hard to suppress. It happened when she was 18-years-old. Her lips quaver and she begins to rapidly breathe.
She begins to remember the awful, painful, sickening, and terrible thing she went through all those years ago.
Seth leans forward, eyes narrowed. He prods, "Something is troubling you. What is it, Svetlana? I am here for you. Tell me what it is that--"
Svetlana springs up from her seat, eyes bloody and face a mess. She tries to speak, but the words are caught in her throat.
Seth stands up and approaches her. With a shaking hand, he wipes away the blood, leaving messy streaks of red on her pale cheeks.
The Typhonist cups Svetlana's cold cheek in his colder hand and stares into her green eyes. For a moment, the 2 stand there, staring into each other's eyes.
The Assamite can tell that Seth has a keen interest in her, but she is too wary of him and of his Clan as a whole.
He's a Corrupter, after all. The Ministry's whole motif is deception, manipulation, corruption, and other such things.
Svetlana does not wish to see herself (or anyone close to her) becoming casualties on Seth's path to power. The High Priest of Al-Kushraf is not so much concerned about Svetlana's current emotional state as he is about why she is the way she is.
He is fascinated by her. He wants to know her motivations, what makes her tick, what she wants and desires out of Unlife.
There is a spark inside her soul, something he can clearly see. But, he senses that it is weak and obscured by a shroud of sorts, so he hopes he can get to lift that obscuring shroud off and take a peek behind it.
What is Svetlana really thinking? What does she really want?
Where does she want to be, and what does she want to be? Who is she, really, at her core?
Seth attempts to put her at ease, but the Assamite pushes him back and quickly makes her way towards the exit. She quickly grabs her weapons and rapidly presses the elevator's button, hoping that it'll come faster the more she presses it.
As Svetlana stands in the corner of the elevator, she hears Seth's voice echo, "Svetlana! Wait!"
Svetlana feels guilty, but she pushes that feeling down. She lowers her head and pretends to not hear him.
With urgency in his stride, Seth reaches the elevator and stands in front of it. He places his hands on her shoulders and looks deeply into her eyes.
The Sand-Snake awkwardly smiles, "Ah, uh..."
Svetlana wriggles away and gasps, taken aback by his sudden show of force. Her lips tremble and her Beast roars in anger.
Seth holds up his hands, "Sorry, I--I didn't mean anything by it. I'm just concerned for you, that's all."
"..."
Seth sighs deeply, "Look whatever you've been through...it's best to move on from it. We all have our pasts and--"
Svetlana dryly cuts him off, "I will see you soon, Seth. For drive."
Seth nods, "Sure, sure. Lemme know whenever you're free and I'll come pick you up. Or...we can meet here and take a drive around the city."
The Assamite refuses to make eye contact, "I would like that very much, thank you." There's a hint of insincerity in her tone, but that's only because she's traumatized by the re-emerging of those horrid and ghastly memories.
The elevator opens and the Assamite steps inside. She doesn't even look at Seth as she gets out of there. She rushes past the reception area and into the dark night.
Seth stands in the middle of the room, hands on his hips, shaking his head in disbelief. He wonders to himself, "What IS bothering her so much? Hmph, anyway, I...damn. Am I really falling for an Assamite? Are they all like this or is it just her?"
He decides that he will try to find out more about this matter. He's not gonna just let this go without a fight.
He is a Viper, after all- persistent, flexible, adaptive, and cunning as can be.
With determination in his amber eyes, Seth mutters to himself, "But, I won't let the other Assamites take this city away from me. No. Still, Svetlana...she's...special. Unique, charming, beautiful."
The Sand-Snake sighs, "Argh, damnit. It's...been a long time since I've felt so--so strongly about somebody else. Hmph, never mind."
He banishes these thoughts to the back of his mind. He then grabs his snake cane and returns back to his cult compound. The Serpent decides that it's time to start looking into the next phases of his plan.
With that in mind, he goes back to his compound, dresses down to something more casual, and goes about his night. He vacillates between different courses of action. He spends hours in quiet meditation, seeking wisdom and advice from Typhon (or whoever's out there or up there).
Meanwhile, Svetlana rides the bus to the Usurper's Haven. She silently stares out the window for the entirety of the ride. Her mind is a haze, her Beast is a bit on edge and furious at Seth for how he made her feel.
Even she's slightly shocked by how Seth was behaving with her. She doesn't hate him or wish to hurt him, but what he said did bring up a very, VERY painful memory.
She shakes her head and exhales, "He was maybe...only trying to help."
She furrows her brows, "No, I should not think about this right now. I have to go meet this woman and see about this problem I am having."
An hour later...
Svetlana finds herself standing in front of a single-floor house in a middling neighborhood in the city. Since this is Al-Kushraf (aka Ersatz Dubai), the suburban neighborhood is almost identical to the ones back in America.
Rows of similar-looking houses on either side, paved roads with some street lights here and there, all that jazz. All the houses are spick and span with little to no sign of wear or tear.
The Assamite is used to seeing places that are so clean, well-kept, and (relatively) peaceful. She gulps a few times and walks up the steps to Saoirse's Haven.
The Tremere's Haven looks average and perfectly blends in with all the other homes around it. Before Svetlana rings the doorbell, the door cracks open a little.
A woman in her 30s with a warm skin tone, medium-length black hair, and brown eyes stands in the doorway. She's in a gray blouse and jeans, 1 hand on the doorknob and the other hand on the door, keeping it slightly propped open.
She speaks with a very distinct Irish accent, "Who are you and what do you want?"
Svetlana introduces herself, "I am Svetlana Bobrov and I have--"
"Not interested in selling this house, love."
"I am here to see...The Witch."
A light gasp escapes Saoirse's lips and she looks around nervously, "What?! Who are you, exactly? Why would you go around saying things like that? Are you looking for trouble or something?"
"Nyet. I am here to see you. Uh...I am Kindred also. Banu Haqim Clan...of the Blade of Haqim."
"I...see. That'd explain why the Blood Ward I placed on the steps had no effect on you. What's the nature of your visit, love?"
"Something is deeply...bothering me and I believe that you can help me with it."
Saoirse interrogates, "Who sent you?"
Svetlana looks around and leans closer to whisper, "Absalom the Malkavian. He told me I should come see you. Seth gave me your address."
Saoirse curses in Irish, "Ah...him. And him. Before I let you in, what guarantee do I have that you won't attack me or try to Diablerize me? I know you Assamites have a tendency to do that."
Svetlana plainly answers, "If I wanted to such a thing, it would already be done, no?"
The Tremere thinks for a moment and extends her hand, "Heh, you're a cheeky one, ain't you? Last warning: try anything and your ashes will be scattered across the desert."
Svetlana equably says, "Da. I understand. I am of peace and wish no harm upon you. So...can I enter?"
"If you promise not to hurt me, I suppose I could let you inside."
The Assamite holds up both her hands, palms facing outwards, "I promise I will not harm you."
Saoirse clicks her tongue in derision, "You think I'm stupid, macushla (IE: darling)? I see you've got 2 fancy daggers on your person. You don't need to promise anything; just--just don't try anything funny, yeah?"
Svetlana takes a deep breath and sighs, "Alright. I promise I will not harm you. I am here for your help. I am...desperate and do not know where else to turn."
"Hmph, you certainly sound desperate. Before I let yous in, what is it that you wanna talk to me about, eh?"
"It would be better if we discuss this inside, yes?"
Saoirse sighs deeply, "Macushla, I was not Embraced last night. The other Kindred in this city, your lovely Clan included, don't come to see me. EVER. At best, they tolerate me presence here. At worst, they wish I'd walk out into the sun."
Saoirse sniffs, "So, what's the purpose of your visit, then? I don't have all night, you know."
"It concerns something...maybe someone following me. It is hard to put into words and explain. Can you please let me in now?"
The Usurper's interest is piqued, "Something/someone following you, eh? Sure it's not a stalker or someone an Assamite like you might've accidentally pissed off? You lot have a tendency to do that."
Svetlana rolls her eyes, getting impatient, "I have only been in this city for few weeks. I do not know any of the...how do you say, major players in this city."
"Aye, is that so? So, you and the other Assamites were all chased away from Dubai, right?"
"Da."
"Shame about what happened to the Gangrel, though. Too bad Prince Angela and the rest of those Outlanders got fuckin' wiped out."
Svetlana looks pained when that's mentioned, "Hmm, da. It is most tragic. Prince Angela was...good woman. She did not deserve such a fate."
The Tremere exhales sharply and lets the Assamite inside. She beckons to a small green sofa and says, "Hmm, no one does, macushla. Take a seat, yeah?"
The interior of Saoirse's Haven looks quite well-done and immaculate. Everything seems like it was intentionally placed at a certain angle, a certain way. It looks as if every inch of the house was purposefully made to look better, bigger, and grander than it really is.
The Tremere and the Assamite take their respective seats and Saoirse leans forward, she scans Svetlana with her eyes and studies her every move, her every expression, her every gesture.
Svetlana squirms under her very uncomfortable gaze, "What are you looking at? Do I...have something in my teeth?"
Saoirse faintly laughs, "No. I'm just trying to figure out why a Banu Haqim would seek out a Tremere- you're no Fledgling, so you must know that our respective Clans got some bad blood, some wee rivalry, right?"
Svetlana shakes her head, "I...no? Nyet. I only know that Tremere Clan is a Clan of Blood Sorcery, Thaumaturgy, and some other...such things. Is this...bad?"
The Tremere shrugs, "It depends, love. But, it's kind of odd that you're looking for help from me and not one of your own, especially with something as big as this. Tell me more about whoever or whatever it is you think is following ya."
Svetlana gulps deeply and takes a moment to gather herself. She prepares herself to mention the death of a child and everything else that happened on that bleak and fateful evening.
"I see...her, little Chloe. Even in my dreams, I can feel the child's presence, and it's very...terrifying. It is driving me mad, I think. I do not know how else to say it."
"Driving you mad? How so?"
Svetlana explains how this...apparition (or whatever it is) likes to play hide-and-seek, how it calls out to her at odd times and asks for things like a bedtime story, etc.
Saoirse rubs the bridge of her nose, "Right, so little Chloe is making you see stuff and hear things? How close were you to the child?"
"I was her babysitter. You have to understand that her parents did not love her very much. They only tried to buy her many expensive toys and other things, but they showed her very little love. But, I always had love for her."
Svetlana recalls that terrible evening and shudders, "When I left the room to go and find her, I felt...something terrible. Chloe always would hide in most unusual spots. Sometimes, she would even try to go in dangerous spots. But...on this evening..."
The Assamite's voice quavers, "I saw her standing in hallway. She had managed to open front door and stand in the hallway--"
Tears of blood start to well up in Svetlana's eyes. Saoirse grimaces and raises an eyebrow.
The Neonate continues, "--and she was looking at me, smiling that very naughty smile. The next th--thing--"
The next thing that happened was a big and fiery explosion that destroyed the entire building, killing everyone therein. Chloe was standing there, dressed in bunny pyjamas. She was tightly clutching her teddy bear when she was taken by the blast.
Svetlana explains that she alone is the sole survivor of that grim and harrowing evening, thanks to the man who'd go on to Sire her.
Saoirse clicks her tongue and looks at the wall, thinking, "Fuckin' hell. I am so sorry, Svetlana, right? Jaysus. I--I really don't know what to say. That's...damn, yeah. That's bad, isn't it?"
The Tremere leans back in her chair, "Aye. Shite. I really don't know what to make of this. So, you were flung out the building and that's where your Sire found you, yeah?"
Svetlana solemnly nods and doesn't say anything.
Saoirse's mouth is half-open and her brows are pulled together. She reties her hair into a tight ponytail and drums her fingers on the armrest of the sofa, "Well, what I think is that there's definitely something or someone haunting you."
Svetlana bites the inside of her cheek and glares at the Usurper, "What kind of sorcery does Tremere Clan have to get...rid of this thing?"
Saoirse derisively chuckles, her expression darkening, "That's the thing, macushla. It's not some wee ghost I can just bust and banish. We Usurpers deal with spirits all the time, but the one that's troubling you is no ordinary ghost."
Svetlana's expression darkens as well, "What? Then who--what is it?"
Without skipping a beat or blinking, Saoirse says, "A Wraith. Judging by what you told me, it's a pretty strong one, too. They're hard to track down and get rid of, especially if they've made the decision to keep on haunting you or whatever."
The Assamite frowns and slouches, "What is a...Wraith?"
The Tremere deeply exhales, "It's a long story, macushla. Your little Chloe likely became one after her--her tragic demise. God, talking about a dead child...fuckin' grim stuff, even for me. Fuck."
"Da. 100s of innocent people were killed that evening."
Saoirse looks confused, "'Killed'? News reports said the AJRT explosion was caused by a gas leak."
Svetlana shakes her head, "Nyet. It was Second Inquisition. They wanted to destroy someone, but they did not even get him. They killed all those innocents for nothing. What a waste of life, all those people, children...for nothing."
Saoirse's mouth is agape and her eyebrows are raised, "Ah, I see. Yeah, that is some dark shite. Fuckin' SI cunts. Never had a run-in with them, but I've heard the stories."
"What can I do? What is this Wraith? Why is it following me?"
"Look, Svetlana, you said yourself that you were Chloe's babysitter, right? That--that you 2 were close and that the kid loved you like a parent or whatever."
Svetlana firmly nods, "Da, I know. We were very close. Is this...truly Chloe or is it something pretending to be her?"
Saoirse patiently explains, "Wraiths ARE, for better or worse, who they were in this life. So, who little Chloe was in this life- her mannerisms, her appearance, her peculiarities, her speech patterns, and so on- is who she also is in...Undeath."
Svetlana's face scrunches in confusion, "'Undeath'?"
"Yeah, we Kindred got Unlife and the Wraiths got Undeath. Still, there are ways to get rid of them."
Svetlana gasps.
The Usurper continues, "But, it's a child we're talking about here. I've dealt with Wraiths before, but never a wean. Fuck..."
Svetlana shakily asks, "What can you do to...banish her?"
Saoirse's eyebrows shoot up, "You really wanna go down that road, love?"
She exhales deeply and throws her head back, "Well, I'd have to determine her Fetter, firstly."
"Fetter?"
"Aye. It could be any aul object...or a person from the child's past. It represents unresolved issues or somethin' of the like. For example, I'd have to ask, what was Chloe's favorite toy?"
Svetlana nods contemplatively, "She liked a...teddy bear. Brown and soft. She--She--" her voice cracks and she can't finish her sentence. She starts to cry and her shoulders heave.
The Assamite buries her face in her hands and breaks down. Saoirse can't help but feel sympathy for her guest.
"It's awright, macushla...take your time."
Svetlana wipes the bloody tears away and continues, "She was holding it when she was killed. C--Clutching it very tightly."
Saoirse shakes her head, "No, that can't be her Fetter. It has to be something or someone that still exists. Something charred beyond all recognition wouldn't have the energy required to tie a Wraith."
"Why would Chloe follow me, then?"
"You were the last person to see her alive. She was a child, after all. When in strange places, children oft-times seek out...familiarity, safety, comfort. I don't know, maybe she's just curious, or maybe she's trying to make sense of what happened that evening."
"Hmm, that is possible."
"Aye, it's possible. Without first determining Chloe's Fetter, we cannot proceed--"
Before the Tremere can finish her thoughts, the power goes off.
"Aw, fucking power's been in rag order for the past few nights. Aye, wait here, love. I'll be right back." She mutters something in Irish and heads off to the kitchen.
A few moments later, the lights turn back on. The 2 Kindred look at each other. Svetlana averts her gaze and looks around the Usurper's Haven. She notices how perfectly everything has been arranged.
Even the decorative vases and knick-knacks look carefully chosen and placed at their correct angles, positions, and sizes. The colors are all complementary, there's no dust or clutter anywhere.
Saoirse remarks, "Yeah, don't be too scared by it, love. It's a Tremere thing. Anyways, back to where we left off before the power went off..."
Svetlana nods, "So, who or w--what is the Fetter? Can you maybe find out?"
"Aye, I sure can, love."
Just then, a child's giggle comes from the hallway. Svetlana's head whips around and her inner Beast hisses. Yet another giggle, this one louder than the previous one, reverberates through the walls.
Saoirse looks over her shoulder, "Is something wrong, macushla?"
"There is someone...laughing."
Saoirse readies her claws. She gets up, activates her Auspex Discipline. Her eyes take on an unusual shade of purple and she quickly examines the room for anyone or anything. She is tense, her mind is on edge.
She slowly turns around, eyes darting across the room. She is ready to defend herself and Svetlana, if need be.
She hollers out, "Oi, 'mon out!"
A small glass crystal figurine on Saoirse's side table shatters into tiny shards, sending tiny bits of glass everywhere. The Usurper curses.
Svetlana looks around the room and whispers, "How can this be?"
"Setlana! Setlana! Come see! Come see!"
Svetlana gasps when she hears Chloe's voice as clear as day. It sounds as if it's coming from somewhere in the living room.
She stays close to the Tremere, "Where is she? W--What is she doing here?"
Saoirse turns her attention to Svetlana and notices a faint cord that begins from Svetlana's body and winds up all over the place. Still in Auspex, she follows the cord around a few corners and down the hall.
The cord leads to a single bedroom door, which is open a crack. The cord has a sickly-looking green glow to it.
Saoirse softly exclaims, "Svetlana...you..." her mouth is half-open and her eyebrows are raised.
"What is it? Why are you looking at me like that?"
"That cord is tied around you, love."
"ME!?"
Saoirse looks around in denial, "Yeah, but...how? N--No, it can't be possible. There has to be another explanation for this."
"Weeeeeeeeee!" little Chloe's cheery voice echoes from within the room.
Saoirse looks back at Svetlana, "Well, what do you know. Seems like your little Chloe is hiding in there."
"W--What?"
Saoirse takes a deep breath and pushes the bedroom door open and immediately flips the light switch. A few more giggles escape the fleeting darkness.
The Usurper's eyebrows knit together, "Chloe? You...in here, love? It's alright, it's alright. We're friends. I've got your Svetlana right here with me."
Even Svetlana speaks to the space around her and looks very concerned, "Chloe? Is me. A--Are you hurt?"
Saoirse stands in the center of the room, looking around and waiting for the ghost of the child to emerge. She retracts her claws since they're quite meaningless in such a situation.
Chloe's cheery voice comes from a closet, "C'mon in, Setlana! C'mon in! I want you to help find my Barbie that parents...got...for me." Her voice seems to be fading out.
The Usurper looks at Svetlana and raises an eyebrow, "She's in the closet over there. Think you can...reach her?"
Svetlana frowns and walks up to the closet, "Chloe, please come out. I--" She puts her shivering hand on the handle and gently pulls it open. It creaks a few times.
The Assamite is surprised that the closet has no ghost in it. It's just full of clothes, jewellery, cash, and some other stuff, but no one is hiding. She looks around, searching for any trace of the girl.
"Chloe! Please! Come out now!" Svetlana desperately pleads, her voice shaking and cracking.
"C'mon Setlana! Come play Barbie with me. Please, please, please."
The Neonate is in bloody tears and falls on her knees, "Please, come out. Stop this...I--I cannot take this anymore!!"
Saoirse scans Svetlana once more and is in shock with the way these spectral cords around the Assamite's body are winding around everything and anything in sight.
"Oh my god...how--how is it even possible? Svetlana, when were you Embraced? Was it soon after you were flung out of the building?"
Svetlana narrows her eyes, confused, "I...think so, da. John said I was dying and my injuries were far too severe. He...he Embraced me. Why? What does any of that have to do with Chloe?"
The Tremere scratches the back of her head, "It means, macushla, that...you are in all likelihood the child's Fetter." Her tone is grim and leaves very little room for doubt or questioning.
Svetlana is shocked and terrified by the Tremere's conclusion, "B--But, why? I do not understand."
Saoirse shrugs, "It's rare alright, but it happens. Do you personally feel any guilt for what happened to Chloe on that evening?"
Svetlana nods in the affirmative, "Very much so. I was also supposed to die that evening. But--"
Saoirse cuts her off, "Fate had other plans for you, eh?"
Svetlana asks the obvious, "Why her?! Why me?! How does someone even become a Wraith?"
Saoirse blows a raspberry and shrugs, "It's all random, love. Entirely random. The grim reaper's fucking lottery, heh. There's no process or method behind that madness- believe me, I've studied it. A LOT. It's as arbitrary as it comes."
Saoirse regards the Assamite for a while, "You cared a lot about that wean, huh? You'd do anything for a child that isn't even yours, huh?"
"Da. I care about ALL the children I have looked after or will take care of. It is who I am as person. It also helps to maintain my Humanity so I do not have to feel guilty for doing things like drinking blood. I would n--not be able to function without holding onto something...higher."
"I see. You're a good person, love. That's good to know, right? A relief, honestly. Some Kindred just use their newfound powers to indulge their Beasts, consequences be damned. Believe me, I should know."
Svetlana sighs, "I understand. Chloe was always good child, but I could tell her parents did not love her very much. They went to...party while she was with me."
Saoirse gesticulates, "Well, there you go. It tells you everything you need to know, eh? You're the kid's Fetter. And since she's a child, she seeks familiarity. Usually, Wraiths can go wherever they want and do whatever they want, but kids tend to seek out the familiar."
"Hmm, you know much about this?"
"Aye. My Clan's Chantry library back in Abu Dhabi was filled with lore about Wraiths and their habits and all that shite." Saoirse has a hint of venom in her voice when she mentions her Clan's Chantry.
"I see. What should I do? You said that there is way to...make this stop."
The Tremere solemnly sighs, "I can't do much, really. If the Fetter were an object, I'd toss it in an incinerator or crush it till it becomes dust, but...we can't exactly do that with you, eh?"
"Y--You mean to banish the Wraith, you would ha--have to destroy me?"
Saoirse grimly nods, "Aye. And I'm fairly certain you're not ready for that."
"But I--I have to know. What would happen if I would...do it? How does it work?"
"Well, if the Fetter were an object, the Wraith's existence in the Shadowlands would become...destabilized. The kid wouldn't last long were something...truly unfortunate to happen to you. Fuck...a kid dying again? Jaysus."
Svetlana mulls this over in her (already) troubled mind.
Saoirse rubs her neck and looks over the various objects in the room. She decides to take the opportunity and scan the room again.
She activates her Auspex Discipline and her eyes take on a deep violet color. Her voice becomes deeper. She cuts her palm with a claw, her voice deepening. The Usurper chants in Irish and lets her Vitae flow down onto the ground.
The blood boils, sizzles, and fizzles when it hits the ground. Saoirse continues her chant, speeding up the process.
The blood spreads out all over the room, but it does not stay on the floor. Instead, it slowly starts to take the form of a small, round table and chairs.
The Usurper snaps her fingers and the blood solidifies, becoming stone, "Perfect." She appears satisfied with what she has managed to conjure up.
Taking on a more pleasant tone, she sweetly calls out, "Chloe, love? Why don't you come on out?"
The Usurper waves Svetlana over, "Come, have a seat."
The Assamite approaches the conjured-up table and sits down, looking a bit nervous. She's surprised when she doesn't fall through the chair, but it is a bit harder than she would've expected.
She is more surprised by the fact that a chair can be conjured up with nothing but a few drops of blood, "Wow, it is...comfortable."
The Usurper sits down opposite Svetlana and gestures towards the table, "Why, thank you. Being rusty is not an option for us Tremere, I hope I didn't screw anything up."
"No, it is fine, t--thank you."
The table has an oddly...calming aura about it.
Chloe's voice echoes from the closet, "Setlana! Setlana! Where is my Barbie?"
Saoirse interrogates, "Why does she keep talking about Barbie a lot?"
"Before...the explosion. Before we played hide-and-seek, we were playing with new Barbie dolls and dolls house that Chloe's parents had bought for her. They were in her room, on her bed. It was...very pretty and very expensive."
The Usurper sighs and scoffs, "Parents were trying to buy her love, eh? Not surprised. Well, at least she had you. Has you, actually. I don't have to remind you that you're her anchor now."
Svetlana solemnly nods and doesn't say anything. After a moment, a figure begins to materialize near the conjured-up table. It starts as a shadow, then the shadow grows limbs, takes on a human form.
Svetlana is the first to speak, "CHLOE!" Her tone conveys her shock and awe at the sight.
Chloe, who looks very much like she did in life, stands near the table. Her cheeks are pale as a sheet and her brown hair is a tangled mess. When she smiles, a few of her teeth are missing.
She jumps up and down in excitement, giggling and squealing, "You found me! You found me! Did you find me Barbie?"
She begins to approach the Assamite, but Saoirse blocks her path with her forearm, "Ah, ah, ah! You don't wanna get too close, young one."
The fading Wraith looks at the Tremere with curiosity in her eyes, "Who are you? Are you Setlana friend?"
Saoirse faintly smiles, "I suppose so, yeah. And you must be little Chloe, yeah?"
The Wraith nods her head, but she phases in and out rapidly, like a hologram. The Usurper's smile is replaced by a grim frown.
"Setlana, Setlana! It's bedtime! Mummy and daddy still have not come back, can you put me in bed? I...can't find me bed."
Svetlana is shattered when she hears the little child say this, but she is determined not to break. She has to be strong, she has to try her best to keep it together and hold on.
Saoirse puts her cold hand on the back of Svetlana's hand, "I'm so sorry, macushla. Now I understand why you're the child's Fetter."
Chloe asks, "What's a Fe-t-ter? Is it new Barbie? Can I have it? Can mummy and daddy buy me another Barbie? I want Ken!"
Svetlana's expression reflects how torn apart and defeated she feels. Her eyes are bloodshot and her Beast is writhing inside her. She is trying to hold back her sanguine tears, but they keep on falling down her cheeks.
Chloe extends her ghostly hand to Svetlana's face, but it goes right through, "Why are Setlana's eyes bleeding? Should I call doctor?"
Svetlana sniffs and shakes her head. She forces a smile, "Nyet. Is no problem, malen'kiy (RU: little one). H--How are you, Chloe?"
Chloe matter-of-factly responds, "It is ve-ry cold here. Can you bring me blanket, Setlana? Please? It is very, very cold. Why is it so cold?"
The Assamite sobs and wipes her eyes. Her vision is blurred by her bloody tears and her voice is cracking, "It...it be--because you are--"
Saoirse glowers at her guest and firmly grips her hand, "Don't say it. It would only cause her greater confusion and anguish, and she's already been through a lot. Children don't handle the truth very well. A little...tact is required."
Svetlana is confused, but she nods, "Da, you are right. I understand. I am sorry, Chloe. It is because...wintertime has started."
Chloe incredulously exclaims, "Wintertime?! Can you also please fetch me swe-a-ter? Mummy said it was locked away in the cupboard, but I can't find it."
Saoirse leans back and crosses her arms, "Hmm, I see. OK, I'll go find that. You just sit tight...and catch up with yer oul friend here, aye, love?"
Svetlana forces a smile as Saoirse leaves the room. Now, it's just the Wraith and her Fetter, all alone.
The child is standing right in front of her and the Assamite is having a hard time looking her in the eye.
She feels so ashamed for being the sole survivor of that building explosion. The survivor's guilt falls on her like a ton of bricks, crushing her. The guilt is eating her up alive. She wants to run away and hide, but she can't.
Not just yet.
She is the Fetter and the Wraith child is her responsibility now. She tries to put her hand on the kid's shoulder, but it goes right through. Chloe giggles and makes a funny face.
Svetlana's dead heart shatters at the sight- her guilt is only getting worse.
Chloe, with a playful grin on her face, tiptoes around the room, "Mummy and daddy will be very angry if they see us in house of stranger. But I do not want them to...fi-re you, Setlana. You are so pretty and I like your eyes. Do you like me eyes?" She giggles again.
The Assamite nods her head, "Da, I do. I like it very much. You look...very beautiful, Chloe."
"Thank you. But I--I feel so cold. Brrrrrrr. Where is me blanket? Do you know when mummy and daddy are coming back?"
Svetlana shuts her eyes and looks away. After the SI's Unit 8211 killed everyone in the building, Chloe's parents left the country and returned to the UK. They have not returned to the UAE ever since (and have no intention of doing so).
The guilt, the bereavement, the loss, and the grief were just too much for them to handle. Svetlana puts her face in her hands and begins to cry.
"Why is the blood falling down from Setlana's eyes? little Chloe cluelessly inquires. She taps her chin like some amateur pretend detective and watches on, a mixture of awe and worry on her face.
Svetlana springs up, "I cannot take it anymore, Chloe! I am so sorry! I--I was supposed to die that evening. I should have died and you would not have been--been--"
Saoirse comes back into the room and stiffens when she sees how Svetlana is feeling. She gently places her hand on her shoulder and rubs her arm, "Hey, hey, hey...calm down, love."
Svetlana shrugs her off, "How can I remain calm!? If I had died that evening, then--then Chloe would not have turned into Wraith! She would have no Fetter!"
Saoirse clicks her tongue, "Don't do this, macushla. Even if you had perished, the little one would've gone on to become a Wraith, no matter what. You know that, right? There's no easy or safe way to dispose of a Wraith, especially a Wraith child."
She looks into the Assamite's bloodied eyes, "Just like how the child is tied to you, your Unlife is now tied to hers."
"How can I do this?! I feel so guilty and broken on inside! Is too much!"
Saoirse retorts, "Imagine how it must be for a child, then. To be trapped in the Shadowlands, doomed to roam it for all eternity. Imagine how scared she must've felt when her Caul was yanked off by her Reaper."
She points a finger at the Assamite, "You can't know how much trauma a child in these circumstances truly suffers. Especially a child that just lost their fucking life. I don't know the hows yet, but all I do know is that YOU are her Fetter now."
"She was just a child. Just a child...she does not deserve this..."
"No one does, macushla."
Svetlana sniffles a few times and asks, "What can be done now? Is there no other way to banish her...to make her move on, perhaps?"
The Tremere shakes her head, "Naw. Unless you're ready to walk out into the sun in a few hours' time, or if you're planning some other elaborate way to end your Unlife, there's nothing that can be done."
"Is there nothing? Anything?"
"Well, there are ways to...trap the Wraith, but the chances of that working would be slim to none. It could even backfire...spectacularly. Point is, there's no guarantee that your Final Death would enable this poor wean to move on."
The Usurper sighs, "Besides, what kind of person would you be if you willingly put her through THAT kind of pain and torment? After the Fetter's gone, it's the Harrowing."
Her gaze grows distant, "A Wraith child's Harrowing would be an absolute nightmare, love. And, even if she were to SOMEHOW survive and overcome that ordeal, she would be forever changed. In my experience, it's not always a good thing. Trust me on this, OK?"
Svetlana queries, "Hmph. How do you know so much about Wraiths?"
"I used to spend hours back in the Abu Dhabi Chantry. I was under the tutelage of Prince Helmut Strauss himself."
Saoirse goes on to explain, "But...things started happening. Night after night, I slowly felt more and more of my Humanity slipping away. The experiments got more vicious. Prince Helmut demanded results and he wanted them to be perfect. And...they weren't."
"Experiments?"
"Yeah. We were trying to create Gargoyles down in the Chantry. Such experiments require a lot of bodies. Since this is the fucking UAE, finding bodies with breath still in their lungs and so on was pretty easy. Too easy if you ask me."
Svetlana cringes, "I...I do not like the sound of this."
Saoirse bitterly chuckles, "Me neither, love. Me neither. I'm sure you can guess where we got the bodies from. Go on, give it a guess."
Svetlana pointedly says, "The migrant workers."
"Fucking bingo. You got it in 1 shot. Yeah. The other Tremere would kidnap those poor buggers off the streets. Or worse, they'd bribe the Emirati authorities or the employers to make sure no one would come looking for those poor buggers after we had taken them."
Saoirse shakes her head and frowns, "I was one of the Thaumaturgists tasked with creating a 'perfect' Gargoyle specimen."
Little Chloe rapidly phases in and out. She flies around and giggles at Saoirse, "You talk fun-ny."
The Tremere stares at the kid, "That's 'cause I'm Irish, macushla. And you're...British. Funny, eh?"
The child shakes her head and playfully sticks her tongue out.
Saoirse scratches the side of her neck, "Ah, right, hmm. So, I left. I couldn't take it anymore. Reading those harrowing news reports of all the missing people took an indescribable toll on me. And I--I couldn't sleep during the day."
Svetlana can tell that Saoirse is not one to show weakness and vulnerability, especially not in front of others, but the Usurper is clearly very distressed by what she's recalling.
The Assamite points out, "Did you at least destroy the experiments or tell anyone else about it?"
The Usurper scoffs, "Tell who? It was the fuckin' Prince of Abu Dhabi himself who commissioned and ordered the rest of us to perform these ghastly experiments on these poor bastards. Fuck no, I didn't tell anyone about it because there was NO ONE to tell about it."
"Then how did you leave the city?"
"I told Helmut that I had enough of it all. Surprisingly, he was very understanding. In other words, he found someone with even less moral scruples than me. We parted ways with a smile and a firm handshake. Heh."
Saoirse looks at Chloe and ruefully remarks, "Never trust a bald German man."
Svetlana pensively says, "I am sorry to hear this. But you should've done more to stop them, no?"
"I DID ALL THAT I COULD! S--Sorry. It's not easy being a Tremere. Your superiors place all these high, unfair, and impossible expectations on your shoulders. And you HAVE TO live up to them no matter what. I know the feeling all too bloody well, alright."
Svetlana's face softens and she apologizes, "I--I am sorry. Are we in danger from Gargoyles attacking us?"
Saoirse sourly laughs, "No. Well...not yet, anyway. So, there, that's why I'm here in this city now, far from the madding crowd's ignoble strife and all that shite."
Chloe repeats, "Shite. Is it a naughty word?"
Saoirse smirks and nods, "Aye, very much so."
She turns her attention to her guest, "Now, you can either accept what's happened to you and adapt to it or...do something terrible. Like, something worse than what has already happened to you."
The Assamite solemnly replies, "It is not easy. I do not know much about Wraiths and how to handle such a...a..."
Saoirse's eyebrow perks up and she cocks her head to the side, "Delicate matter? Aye, if you have an hour or more to spare, I can tell you everything I know about the denizens of the Shadowlands."
Svetlana resolutely nods her head, "Da. I am ready...Sao...sorry, how to say your name? Is very hard to pronounce."
Saoirse gently explains, "It's pronounced SEER-shuh. Rhymes a bit with inertia, heh heh. Anyways, we better get started on our Wraith talk, if you'd like."
"Da, I would like this very much. Thank you. I need it."
"Of course, macushla. It's the least I can do for you."
"What does that word mean? Ma-cush-la?"
"It's an Irish form of addressing someone in an endearing way. My mother would call me that sometimes. As would my da...I miss them a lot. Anyways, come on. Let's go to the living room and get started."
Chloe flies around and almost knocks a standing coat hanger down, but Saoirse leaps forward and catches it before it falls. She shakes her head, "Agh, careful with that stuff, love."
"Why?"
Svetlana chimes in, "Chloe. Do not run and jump everywhere. OK? Please?" Her tone is very gentle and warm.
"But I want to see what is in-side this nice house, Setlana. Why does blood keep coming out of your eyes and your mouth?"
Svetlana waves her hand, "Is not for you to worry about. Why don't you go...hide and I will find you after LONG time? Da? OK?"
"OK, Setlana. Hide and seek is fun. Come and find me Setlana! But I want you to find me, OK?"
She begins to fade away, slowly dissipating and vanishing into thin air.
The 2 Kindred look at each other, their pale faces showing concern and unease.
Saoirse puts her hand on her guest's shoulder, "Come now. Let's begin."
The Banu Haqim and her host proceed to spend the next 2 (almost 3) hours talking about everything pertaining to Wraiths. Svetlana has a lot of questions, which Saoirse answers with great ease and elegance.
During their conversation, they make a few other important discoveries: it is possible for Kindred to turn into Wraiths after Final Death (and many, indeed, have), but not everyone can do that.
But, again, it's entirely arbitrary. There doesn't appear to be any set rules governing who does (or doesn't) become an Undead Wraith- it truly is the most random of all things.
Svetlana's head is swimming from all the information she's being exposed to, "Is too much. So many things. I have not heard before. Is--Is all very new."
They also go over Fetters, Oblivion, the Skinlands (the world of the living), the bizarre politics of the Underworld dimension, and many other such morbid things.
The Usurper explains, "I had some books about all this stuff, but it's back in the Abu Dhabi Chantry. I have no intention of going back there. EVER. And I know that Helmut hates the Banu Haqim and would never allow you to set foot in the Chantry, let alone the city."
Svetlana understands, "So, it is too dangerous. I understand. If you can teach me all this, I would not have to be...so frightened all the time. Fear is not good. It will only make me weaker. And I must try to be strong for--for little Chloe."
A few more minutes are spent going over everything (again). Saoirse wants to ensure that the Assamite understands these dense concepts and is able to practically apply the tips, tricks, and workarounds that she has come up with over the years.
After their very long and very thorough exposition-dumping session ends, Saoirse approvingly declares, "You're a smart cookie, love. Very smart. There's hope for you yet."
"Spasibo. And you are good teacher. Maybe a little strict and harsh, but you have patience. And is good quality to have. You are strong and kind person, Saoirse. I--I will remember all this."
"Thanks, love. That means a lot. Being who we are...being who I am, you don't get much in the way of social interaction in a place like this. The other Kindred here despise me."
"I am sorry to hear that. Why do they dislike you?"
Saoirse shrugs, "In all the years I've been here, I haven't so much as hurt a fly. At first, I wanted to be away from it all- Kindred, mortals, everyone. Now, I realize what an eejit move that was."
"Why do they call you 'The Witch'?"
The Usurper grunts, "Fuck if I know. I suppose some Ministry tool got wind of what I was involved in back in Abu Dhabi and jumped to some wild conclusions."
The Assamite politely asks, "W--Wild conclusions? Like what?"
"Rumors, mostly. Pointless and wasteful if you ask me. It's not your concern, macushla. Trust me, you don't wanna get tangled up in more shite. You've...already got enough going on."
Svetlana frowns a bit, "Hmmm. It has only been few weeks since we came to this city. After attack on Dubai, we had little choice. The Tremere in Abu Dhabi refused to let any Banu Haqim into their Domain, so we had no choice. We had to move here and find new place for ourselves."
"I see. Well, I can't say I'm surprised, really. There's a lot of bad blood, pardon the expression, between our respective Clans. But, neither of us have anything to do with that. I always like to think that we are more than just our Blood and more than our Clans."
Svetlana is pleased and touched by her host's words, "Da. Very true. All our Clans can live in peace, side by side. But...I do not know if it is something we shall see anytime soon." Her tone reflects her unease and doubt about what the future holds.
The Usurper's face grows solemn, "Aye. We can only hope for a better tomorrow."
Svetlana asks, "Now that I am Chloe's Fetter, does that mean she will always be close to me? Can she ALWAYS see me and hear me?"
"Not exactly, love. You have to understand that that wean doesn't even understand that she's dead. She probably thinks she's on an extended vacation or something."
The Tremere further adds, "If she were older, she would perhaps be able to resolve her Fetter and move on by saying goodbye to the things and people she loved in this life."
Svetlana nods, "Then, she would take step towards achieving Transcendence."
Saoirse nods in approval, "You're a good learner, Svetlana Bobrov. Yes, she'd finally be able to come to terms with and accept her death and move on to whatever ineffable existence waits beyond. Until then, she's stuck in perpetual limbo."
"Her existence is--is already...unbearable. How does she survive everyday?"
"As I said: she thinks she's on a long vacation. Let her think that. As much as I hate lying, she doesn't even understand the concept of death, so no harm there, I suppose. The kid has no idea. She's still going to be that innocent wean, no matter how many years pass in this world or that one."
Svetlana mulls everything over, "Hmm. Da, it is better to simply do what we can to make her happy, no?"
"She's your Wraith, bound to you until the end of time itself. I'd say it's the least you can do. Besides, if you feel like she's suffering too much, then you can always end things here."
Svetlana's eyes widen and she gasps in horror, "I--I am not sure I want to destroy myself, Saoirse! It would be too...difficult. I still have things to do in this world."
The Tremere chuckles, "Ha, you're a stubborn one, aren't you? What things do you still have to accomplish in this world?"
Svetlana states, "To Judge those who murdered little Chloe and all those innocent people on that evening. To help my Sire, John, with whatever he needs. And to take care of new Kindred and provide them with proper guidance. There is STILL much for me to do."
"Hmmm. Well, you better get on it, then, right? We do love using our immortality as an excuse to sit on our arses and wait for the right moment to come along, but you seem determined to get things done, heh. Good for you, love. Good for you."
Chloe's giggle pierces the silence, "Setlana! Setlanaaaaaaa!"
Svetlana and Saoirse look at each other, unsure what to do or say. They both sigh and shrug.
Svetlana calls out, "I...am coming. Go hide and wait for me, OK? I will come and find you, OK? Promise." Her voice is shaky and full of anguish.
Chloe's giggle reverberates from somewhere within the walls, "Promise! Weeeeeee!"
After a few seconds of awkward silence, the Tremere sympathetically suggests, "Look, macushla, if you need anything, ANYTHING, you come to me and I'll try me best to help, alright?"
"You have done enough already."
Saoirse shakes her head, "Hmmm, no. I still think there's more I can do."
She nibbles on the tips of her fingers and angrily mutters, "If I only I had access to that fucking library, th--then, this would be so much easier. Jaysus." Her words are dripping with anger and frustration. She's clearly very annoyed at her current situation.
"Is fine. Is fine. I have understood as much as I can, and I will try and manage this as best I can. You should not...as they say, beat up yourself too much." Svetlana's words are full of reassurance and optimism.
"I'm gonna try, love. I'm gonna try. Anyways, if you need to, feel free to drop by at any time. I wouldn't mind a friend. I made the mistake of cutting the outside world off. But your coming here tonight gave me some semblance of hope, heh." She forces a smile, but it doesn't quite reach her eyes.
"Thank you, Saoirse. You are very kind. And talented also."
Saoirse gives the Banu Haqim a warm hug, "Ah, macushla. I never thought I'd get warm and friendly with an Assamite, but then again, here we are. Come and see me anytime. And if you need to vent, or if the little one's too much to handle, then feel free to stop by."
Svetlana relaxes her body and smiles, "If you have extra time, I would like to maybe stay and chat a little more? Maybe get to know each other?"
"Ah, you're a good egg, love. And, aye, I think that'd be a very good idea. Night's still young, anyway."
Svetlana spends the next hour or so conversing with Saoirse. They talk about where they came from, where they've been, their families, and their hopes and aspirations. They also exchange a lot of stories, some sad, others hilarious.
Saoirse was born to an Indian father and an Irish mother. She was Embraced right before the onset of The Troubles. She has a very distant and pained look on her face when recounting her story.
Svetlana feels very sad for the Irishwoman and does her best to console her. Saoirse appreciates this gesture of friendliness.
In return, the Banu Haqim tells her host a lot about herself, but keeps certain...matters private.
Saoirse senses that there's a lot her guest is not saying, but she doesn't prod or press the Assamite. She knows a thing or 2 about not wanting to open up or go into detail about certain matters.
Overall, it's quite a warm and pleasant chat between 2 vampires from Clans that haven't always been on speaking terms (and that's putting it VERY mildly!)
Then again, they are but Neonates who have not lived long enough or seen enough to have the kind of baggage that would keep them from talking to others. They also have no legitimate reason or valid incentive to hold a centuries-spanning grudge against each other.
By the end of it all, the 2 Kindred seem to be on very friendly terms. Svetlana decides that it would be beneficial for her to maintain and nurture a close friendship with the Witch.
Svetlana pulls out her iPhone and the Usurper gasps in disbelief, "Oi, fuckin' 'ell! Is that the new iPhone??" Her jaw hangs open in astonishment.
The Assamite is surprised by her host's reaction, "Uh, da. It was gift."
Saoirse's eyebrows shoot up, "A gift, eh? So, your babysitting job's got its perks, eh?"
Svetlana shakes her head, "Nyet. It was gift...from Seth."
The Tremere winces, "Oh...I see. Him. Hmph. Be wary of them, Svetlana. It's a right den of Snakes out there and you're in the middle of it all."
Svetlana is confused, "But, he has helped me and John a lot. He seems to be very kind man."
"Oh, no. No. NO. That's not the point, love. The Ministers always lure you in with this surface-level kindness, but their endgame is far more sinister than you could ever possibly imagine." Saoirse has a grim expression on her pale face.
"I--I do not understand?"
"Trust me on this, love. Now, I'm no saying you should toss the phone away or any dumb shite like that. J--Just...be careful around any Setites you see. Keep your wits about ya."
"OK, I will be careful." Svetlana is a bit disturbed by the Tremere's ominous warning. What could the Setites in this city possibly have in store for her (and those close to her), she wonders.
Svetlana asks, "Are you free anytime this week? Maybe we can go to mall or do something?" Her tone is filled with uncertainty and a hint of awkwardness.
Saoirse replies, "Hmm. I got work this whole week. Even though I do it all from the comfort of me Haven, it's still quite taxing. Being a customer service representative is...hard. Not the sort of hard that a lot of other people might be used to, but it's...still difficult."
"You work from...home?"
Saoirse nods, grinning slightly, "Aye. It's the future, love. Cuts down on commuting costs, carbon emissions, shite like that. But, it's definitely no possible for everybody. Like, your babysitting job, for instance."
"Da. Very true," Svetlana nods and agrees with her host.
"If you ever feel like visiting, then feel free to do so. And, again, if you need any help err...containing that little one or anything, let me know. I'm here to help, yeah?"
"Thank you, Saoirse. I appreciate it. And thank you for hospitality and for taking the time to talk with me tonight. I hope I did not disturb you too much or cause you to miss work."
The Usurper dismissively waves her hand, "Ach, no worries. I'll just tell me bosses I was on me period or some shite. That's...usually a valid excuse even though we Kindred no longer go through that stuff."
Svetlana nods. She feels very thankful for having met the Irish lass. If the Tremere wasn't here or willing to help, she'd be a wreck by now. Svetlana would go insane and slowly succumb to her Beast, with the Wraith of little Chloe looming over her.
Svetlana bids farewell to the Witch and prepares to go back to her apartment. Little Chloe giggles and whooshes around, almost knocking a vase off a shelf, but the Assamite is quick to catch it before it falls. She gently puts her hand through the child's spectral face and shakes her head.
Chloe looks dejected and pouts.
Saoirse slowly takes the vase from Svetlana and puts it back in its place. She meticulously adjusts it so that it sits exactly where it was originally. She clicks her tongue and nods approvingly, "Good...enough. That's fine. For now."
Svetlana politely bows her head and parts ways with Saoirse with a firm handshake. Their cold skin touches and the 2 vampires smile at each other.
They both know that they've found a very good friend and ally in each other, and this will surely prove useful down the line.
As Svetlana exits, Saoirse pipes up, "You ever need a shoulder to bleed on, you know where to find me, macushla." She winks at her guest, who nods in appreciation.
After bidding her host farewell, the Assamite goes back to her apartment. It's getting late, but not too late.
She has a lot on her mind and feels very anxious. There are a lot of things she'll have to figure out, but at least now she knows that she's not alone and will not be alone in her endeavors.
Svetlana now feels the presence of little Chloe more intensely. The Wraith's constant giggling, humming, and whooshing is a bit overwhelming, but she'll have to find a way to deal with it. She'll have to find a way to get used to it.
She'll have to make her peace with her new existence, her role as the child's Fetter. Not an easy task, all things considered, but her choices in the matter are few and far between.
Svetlana sighs and sits down on her couch. She puts her hand on her forehead and groans.
A few hours prior...
John is preparing to leave his Haven for the night. With nothing much to do, he figures he'll simply hang around here and there.
As he's walking out the door, his iPhone dings and vibrates. He pulls the phone out of his pocket and sees a text message from Abdullah. It reads: "Are you free tonight, habibi? It is regarding what we discussed at the plaza."
John's fingers are fast across the virtual keyboard: "Sure. Sure. Anytime. Dojo is still closed, so I have waaaaay 2 much time on my hands lol."
The reply comes swiftly: "Do not worry. We will still find some use for your skills, my friend. I am sure of it. Come over. 165 Al Aweer Road. There's an unused apartment on the 4th floor. Apartment number 2. 7:45 PM. See you soon."
Looks like Abdullah found some Thin-Bloods for John to train in the art of Kenpo fighting. Should be fun.
John gets in his car and drives off into the night. As he's cruising down the busy streets of Al-Kushraf, his Beast rouses and writhes within him. Its demands?
The same as always- FEED, FEED!
By now, John knows that he must satiate those eternal demands, lest he fall prey to the Frenzy and wholly give in to the Beast. He drives and drives and drives until he finds appropriate prey to sink his fangs into.
He comes upon an upscale and posh-looking nightclub. The neon sign is broken and almost falling off, but it's clear that this establishment is still up and running.
Perfect.
He spots a few people (the club-going types) loitering around the front of the building. John gets out of his car and heads inside. It's a dark club, full of loud and heavy EDM music.
The thump of the speakers reverberates in John's chest, causing his dead heart to act up. It makes him wince slightly, but this a place where he can feed easily and anonymously, so he'll tolerate it. For now, anyway.
John's eyes scan the place until he spots 3 guys who are clearly on their way to getting drunk. 1 of them is holding a bottle of beer, the other 2 are drinking brandy. They're laughing and loudly conversing in a mix of Arabic and English.
The Assamite Neonate waits patiently in a quiet corner until 1 of them has to inevitably go to a bathroom. Then, he follows the guy inside and, in the dark, locks the door behind them.
The man is so drunk, he starts singing, but his words are so slurred and drool is practically dripping down his mouth.
Before the drunk dude can scream or react, John is on him, his fangs buried in the mortal's throat. John's eyes roll back when that essential lifeforce starts to make its way from the victim's body into his own.
He doesn't take too much, though. He drinks only enough to satiate the Beast's more immediate needs and desires. The 2 men stay like this for a few seconds until John hears someone trying to open the door.
He pulls out his fangs and hastily licks the wounds he made on the man's neck. The drunk man's eyes are glazed over and his lips are shaking. He's so out of it, he doesn't even realize that a vampire just drank from him.
John leaves the guy's still-alive body leaning against the wall. He opens the door, acting nonchalant. He comes face to face with a guy in a thawb and a mean, bouncer-looking fella with the veins nearly popping out his forehead.
John says, "I think the guy's really, REALLY drunk. I was helping him and trying to sober him up, but I don't think it worked. Sorry." He shrugs and gives a wry smile.
The 2 men accept that flimsy explanation and move aside. John thanks them and returns to the dancefloor.
He watches the mortals gyrate and grind on each other, feeling the music and the bass and the rhythm. The smell of booze is all over the place, and the sweat from the bodies is mixing with the smoke and the haze.
It's quite overstimulating to those whose senses are quite enhanced and John feels a sense of dissonance. The music, the lights, the heat- it's too much.
His Beast is content and satisfied, and his mind is clear and alert, so he decides that it's time to leave. As he makes his way to the exit, he bumps into a...familiar face.
Oh, him. Mark, the Ventrue Primogen, is here. His hair is gelled and he's wearing a very cocky smile on his pale face.
John's face is unreadable, and his expression is blank. He doesn't know how to react.
Mark extends his hands and grins, "Eyyy, Johnnie boy! What's up, my dude? Didn't know you were hitting the clubs already. Good, good. You gotta enjoy it." His tone is friendly and welcoming.
It's as if he doesn't remember what happened a couple of nights ago. But, he does. Maybe.
John bluntly remarks, "This place has got a really rustic vibe, don't you think? Not snobby enough for your type." He knows he's being a bit of an ass, but he can't help himself.
He just can't stand Mark. The dude seems like an idiot who doesn't have a single shred of shame, if his outfit (consisting of a bulky fur coat, a silk shirt, a loose tie, and dark jeans) is anything to go by. He seems like one of those rich, flashy douches that John hates.
Mark chuckles, "Hahaha! I'm actually a VIP at this joint, man! S--Sort of, actually. Maybe I can help get you a spot? It's not easy getting in here. But, hey, you know what they say about beggars and choosers, amirite?" He gives John a light punch on the arm.
"NO. I'm fine, but thanks for the offer. Excuse me." John pushes his way through the gaggle of people.
Mark stands there, looking puzzled and slightly miffed. He frowns and shakes his head. He shrugs and goes inside.
John feels kinda bad for being so cold and abrupt with Mark, but he simply couldn't handle being around the Ventrue Primogen. For some reason, John gets weirded out by how cocky, flashy, and overly confident Mark is.
It looks like the dude has never known hardship or adversity in his entire life (or Unlife, for that matter). And that kind of attitude gets under John's skin. A lot. It's very off-putting.
Once Mark is inside, he's greeted by a slimy-looking guy wearing a 70s-style white suit. He's dark-skinned, has some stubble, and has hair that has been slicked back. He's very tall and muscular and looks like someone you don't wanna mess with. Ever.
His eyes are a shade of chocolate brown and he reeks of expensive perfume.
He shoots the Ventrue a significant look, "Mr. Kincaid. A surprise to see you here. Again. And so soon. I thought I was very clear the last time we had this conversation." His voice is deep and gravelly.
Mark remains cool as a cucumber and shrugs, "Eh, I'm just here to partay and enjoy myself, dude! Why the hell not, amirite?" He forces a laugh, but it seems to fall flat.
The other man clearly doesn't appreciate Mark's casual and relaxed attitude.
"Mr. Kincaid, I was going over the accounts and you have unpaid fees from the last...2 years! And, as you are well aware, my establishment does not tolerate unpaid bills." There is no emotion or feeling in his tone. His words are blunt and cold.
Mark's face tics when he hears that. He quickly takes the club owner to the side and explains, "Listen, Ali. Listen, things are a...bit tough for me right now. Why don't we agree to...waive some of the fees, yeah? I mean, we're pals, right? Amirite?"
Ali shakes his head, "No. We are NOT pals, Mr. Kincaid. You have been coming here every single night for the past 2 years, utilizing our VIP facilities, and dragging your friends along. And yet, you refuse to pay the fees." There's a hint of annoyance in his voice.
Mark puts his hands up, "OK, OK, OK. Fine. You--you got a more private place we can do this?"
Ali folds his arms and scowls, "Do what?"
Mark stifles a groan, "Uh...c'mon, right here in this corner, maybe?" He gestures to a secluded area near the restrooms. He smiles and forces a laugh, but he doesn't seem to be getting through to Ali. The other man doesn't look amused in the least.
Ali finally gives in and the 2 men move over to a quieter part of the club.
The Ventrue Primogen takes a look around. Once satisfied that nobody is within earshot or line of sight, he activates his Dominate Discipline. His eyes burrow into Ali's soul and he says, "Ignore it all. You will ignore whatever it is I owe to this club."
Ali's eyes glaze over and he mindlessly repeats, "Ignore it all. I will ignore whatever it is you owe to this club." His eyes return to normal and he seems to be confused.
Mark presses his lips into a thin line and pats Ali's shoulder, "Alright, that should do it."
Ali groans and holds his head, feeling quite overwhelmed to what he just went through, "I...have no idea what happened...? I don't even know why I'm here right now." He looks like he's about to say something else, but he doesn't.
Mark faintly chuckles, "Ah, you kinda lost your balance and your boy Mark Kincaid helped you steady yourself. Heh. Don't sweat it. So, you wanna get me to my VIP spot or what?"
Ali weakly nods and goes with the Ventrue over to the back of the joint, through a keypad-locked door. They enter a luxurious, lavish, and extremely expensive-looking lounge.
It's decked out in gold and silver, there's a bar, some tables, a jacuzzi, a stage with poles and strippers, and much more. There's a whole wall of sparkling diamonds, the light bouncing off here and there. It's extravagant. Very.
The chatter and laughter of the patrons fill the room, but the music from outside is not audible, completely kept away by the layers of soundproofing.
There are only a few people inside and they're all talking with each other, enjoying their drinks, and doing whatever else they normally do here. Mark makes a beeline for the bouncer guy.
Mark is welcomed with open arms by the bouncer.
Ali shakes his head and sighs. He leaves Mark and the other VIPs to their own devices. Mark exchanges a few words with the bouncer and sits down at a table with the others.
They start chatting about some mundane, meaningless things, but then they start getting into their deep, dark secrets. Mark knows that he should be careful with how much he reveals to these people, but he's feeling...chatty.
Still, he knows that the Masquerade needs to be upheld, so he keeps himself from divulging too much.
The other people, however, have no such restraint. They tell the Blue Blood their deepest, darkest secrets- even though they really shouldn't.
1 of them (a dude who looks like he's in his mid-40s) starts to talk about how he ran over and killed a random office employee last year. His eyes are wide and glassy, and he has a crazed look on his face. He smiles like a maniac and goes on about it.
He talks about how he did it, where he did it, what he did afterwards, and so on. All in all, he doesn't seem torn-up about it, not even in the slightest.
Mark uncomfortably grimaces and excuses himself. He goes to the bar and leans against the counter. A bartender, wearing a bowtie and a tight-fitting shirt, comes up to him, "What would you like, sir?"
Mark casually says, "Ah, nothing. I...just needed to err...get away for a bit."
The bartender curtly bows her head and goes off, "As you wish, Mr. Kincaid."
Later on...
John is at his intended destination. He double-checks the address, and yes, this is the right place. He parks his car and heads inside. There's a few construction workers milling about this clearly unfinished apartment complex.
The place is full of construction materials. Rusting concrete mixers, stacks of drywall, buckets of paint, hammers, screwdrivers, all sorts of stuff. The elevator doesn't seem to work, so John has no choice but to use the stairs.
The stairs are covered in sawdust, loose nails, and broken tiles. It's a dangerous and chaotic environment. John slowly makes his way up to the 4th floor. He's sure to be careful and vigilant as he does so.
On his way, he almost slips on some spilled water on one of the steps, but he manages to avoid getting seriously hurt. Once he's at the 4th floor, he makes his way to Apartment Number 2.
He knocks a few times and calls out, "Abdullah! Are you there?" There's no response. He waits a few moments, but nobody answers.
He knocks again and this time he hears someone shout, "Just a minute, habibi!"
Abdullah opens the door and looks quite exhausted. His hair is disheveled and his eyes are somewhat baggy, "Ah, John! Come in, come in!" He leads his fellow Assamite inside and they sit down on some old, tattered chairs.
There's no TV, no furniture, no nothing. The apartment is empty, dusty, and full of random junk strewn about.
John takes a quick look around and sees that this place hasn't been fully worked on yet. It's quite odd, he thinks, seeing as how Abdullah said it was "unused."
He does a sweeping gesture, "Y--You don't actually live here, right?"
Abdullah shakes his head, "No. Of course not. This is simply where me and a few Thin-Bloods meet for our training."
John points out, "Isn't it a bit risky? I saw a bunch of mortal construction workers downstairs. You're not afraid of them seeing or hearing anything out of the ordinary?"
Abdullah responds, "Some of them, believe it or not, are Thin-Bloods. So, they know the value of secrecy."
"How many do you have?" John's eyebrow perks up.
Abdullah vaguely answers, "A few. It's hard to properly schedule these things, habibi. Work, you know? Things tend to get in the way. But, anyways, let me introduce you to the others." He takes John through another door and into a smaller room.
In the middle of this room is a worn workout mat. There are 8 people standing around the mat. 4 women and 4 men. They all look quite pale, gaunt, and sickly.
There's a boombox plugged in next to the mat, playing some Kristin Mainhart tunes. John's ears perk up at this. He's always enjoyed her lovely and smooth voice and he appreciates the choice that Abdullah has made in introducing her to a wider audience.
He approvingly nods towards his buddy, "Ah, you got good taste, Abdullah. I like her stuff. I love it."
Abdullah beams and replies, "Thank you, habibi! I thought her music would help put your mind at ease. And the others seem to like it as well. We are all ready and willing to learn from you."
The 8 Thin-Bloods get into place. Some are wearing stained overalls, others are wearing office casuals, and some are wearing simple hoodies and jeans. They stand there, looking quite uneasy.
Abdullah continues, "They have no experience in martial arts, so it will take time for them to fully understand the intricacies and the subtleties of it all."
John dryly nods, "Hmm, yeah. Definitely. Well, we better get started, then..."
John is really in his element when he's teaching Kenpo to a bunch of newbies. His movements are fast, but his instructions are clear and concise. He makes sure to emphasize every single step.
He also stresses the importance of understanding the why, the how, and the what behind each technique.
The Thin-Bloods all have various levels of difficulty adapting to and adjusting to this new style of combat, but they seem eager to learn. Some more than others, anyway.
After an hour or so of rigorous training, John feels very drained. He goes through some basic exercises and explains some basic concepts of Kenpo to the Thin-Bloods.
To make sure his lesson stays in their heads, he pulls out his iPhone and plays a few videos of famous Kenpo martial artists showcasing some of their moves and techniques.
John then asks them to replicate these techniques in whatever way they can. He gives them pointers and corrects their forms when needed.
To top it all off, John awards them by playing his favorite Kenpo song: "When Kenpo Strikes" by RedCloud.
The Thin-Bloods bop their heads to the catchy tune and they seem to be quite impressed with John's prowess as a Kenpo martial artist. Him having the Celerity Discipline (and using it during demonstrations) is the cherry on the top.
John says, "It's important that you don't get too attached to any particular style or technique. There's no point in learning Kenpo if you're not open to other styles and techniques."
The Thin-Bloods ask to play the Kenpo song again, and John is all-too-eager to indulge their request. Heads bop, arms sway, feet tap, and even the most reserved of these Thin-Bloods can't help but dance and bob their heads to the dope beats.
John is pleased with what he's managed to accomplish tonight. Abdullah folds his arms and stands beside John, smirking at how well everything went. He whispers, "Good job, habibi. I am very pleased."
John replies, "Thanks, buddy. Thanks." His eyes are transfixed on the Thin-Bloods dancing to the song and practicing their Kenpo techniques.
After the training session is over, Abdullah thanks John for all his help.
John presses his lips into a straight line, "Hey, no problem, buddy. I'm always down to lending a helping hand. So, how's work?"
Abdullah sighs, "I cannot...and SHOULD NOT complain too much, habibi, but it can get quite tiresome. Hmmph, never mind. Do not let my complaints wear you down, habibi."
John puts his fellow Assamite as ease, "It's no problem, Abdullah. We've been through a lot together, so I want you to feel free to talk about your issues, I'm here for you...uhm...habibi."
The Banu Haqim Blood Sorcerer faintly laughs, "Ah, your Arabic needs work, haha. Regardless, my struggles at work are insignificant compared to the more...pressing matters at hand."
John looks concerned, "Like what, the SI?"
Abdullah's face turns grave and he says, "Yes. The Zionists. I have this...inexplicable feeling in my bones that we shall encounter them soon. I hope we are...ready for what comes next."
John thoughtfully nods, "Yeah. My katana is as ready as can be."
Abdullah strokes his chin, his eyes narrowed, "You do this Kenpo thing, yet you carry a katana blade? Why?"
The Assamite Neonate plainly shrugs, "Ehh, adaptability, variety, maybe a bit of unpredictability. Besides, it's kinda cool." He tries to sound as nonchalant as possible.
Abdullah smiles a thin smile, "Hmm, well, be ready and prepared, habibi. Unlike those 2 amateurs at the mall, we will be dealing with foes who know EXACTLY what they are doing." His voice is tense.
"I will be, Abdullah. I will." John is confident and resolute, yet there is...a hint of hesitation in his features. He's worried about what he (and those close to him) might have to face in the future.
But, he'll cross that bridge when he gets there. For now, he just needs to focus on the night-to-night stuff.
Abdullah pats his pants and sighs deeply, "Once again, thank you for imparting your wisdom upon these Mercurians. I am sure they will benefit greatly from it."
John waves his hand, "Yeah. No prob." He notices how Abdullah's face seems...troubled, "You alright, bud?"
Abdullah nods, his expression strained and worried, "I...I am. I am. Let us leave it at that, habibi." His tone is full of tension and dread. He shakes his head, but it's not like he's trying to clear his thoughts, but rather to dispel them.
John places his hand on Abdullah's shoulder, "Worried about a run-in with those assholes, huh? Don't be. Me and Svetlana will always have your back." His tone is filled with reassurance.
Abdullah weakly smiles, "That...is reassuring. And what of your Childe? Is she also ready for what might await us in the coming nights?"
John's face tics and he's quick to clarify, "She's...yeah, she can fight, alright. I trained her myself- taught her everything, every technique, every trick. She knows how to hold her own."
The Banu Haqim Blood Sorcerer scratches the back of his head, "Hmm, good, good. You know, after the AJRT explosion, when we both saw Svetlana's body--"
John stops him, "I know, I know. You were skeptical about Embracing her, but I--I couldn't just leave her there to die. I'm glad I did it, Abdullah. It was the right choice. I'm sure of it."
Abdullah's brows are pulled together, "And she is sympathetic to our cause. That is also what must count to you." He tilts his head down and gives John a sideways glance.
John concurs, "Oh, yeah, absolutely. Her grandparents and their people experienced some messed-up stuff at the hands of the Nazis, and I think that's definitely gonna weigh into her outlook on the current situation." He says it with confidence and assurance.
"Hmm, yes. Only, we are dealing with an enemy that would make the Nazis look like tame schoolchildren, habibi." Abdullah looks into John's eyes, and it's as if he's trying to gauge his feelings about the upcoming confrontation(s).
John knows what his friend is trying to say, but he's not about to show any uncertainty or apprehension, "Don't worry, buddy. When push comes to shove, we're gonna Judge 'em good." His voice is stern.
Abdullah relaxes slightly, "I just hope we will survive it...or fight long enough to inflict severe losses on their side."
John grins, "We'll just have to make it count, then? Hmm. So, what's next? Got any more for me to train? I won't lie, it kinda felt good training...actual people for once."
"What do mean by that?"
"Ah, back at the dojo, you get all these expat, trust-fund kids and superficial yoga mom types who--who don't...really appreciate Kenpo. So, you kinda have to, uh...dumb things down a--a lot, heh."
"Oh, is that so? I...I did not realize that. I thought that these people were genuinely interested."
John scoffs, "I mean, the dojo I work at is kinda a fake. They make up all kinds of weird stuff related to Kenpo; it's all BS. I should know, I've been in the Kenpo scene since the 70s."
Abdullah nods and gestures for his friend to go on.
John sighs, "I was already kinda familiar with uh...Ed Parker's stuff by the early 60s. Ah, never mind, it's not important and is best left in the past. I--I just wanted to share, you know? Anyways, it's cool that I've got a fresh new batch of newbies to train, I guess."
"Fascinating, simply fascinating. Ah, now it my turn to train these, as you call them, newbies."
John smirks, "Blood Sorcery, huh?"
"In a way, yes. But also, no. Thin-Blood Alchemy involves more mixing and trial by error. There are things to be learned in the sanguine arts. Hmm. It's...complicated." Abdullah has a slight smile on his face, but it fades as soon as it came.
"OK, I guess. So, uh, you think they're ready?"
Abdullah looks back into the other room where the Thin-Bloods are still practicing their moves, "I think they are willing, but as I mentioned earlier, it involves a lot of trial and error."
He chuckles, "There was this 1 time I mixed soya sauce with some of my Vitae, which in turn was mingled with their Thinned Blood. The results were...amusing."
John tilts his head and his eyes narrow, "Umm, what??"
"It's not as bad as it sounds, haha! Because of how much of my own Vitae I use up, I often find myself feeling quite..."
John interjects, "Hungry. Yeah, I getcha."
The Banu Haqim Blood Sorcerer clicks his tongue, "Yes, anyway. I must go now. Be well, habibi. And tell Svetlana I said hello."
John smiles and nods, "Will do. You stay safe out there, too, OK?"
The 2 Assamites bid farewell to each other and John takes the stairs down.
He looks back at the 8 Thin-Bloods sparring and practicing their moves and techniques. They seem to be REALLY getting into it.
After a few more minutes, Abdullah rubs his hands together and calls the 8 Mercurians towards him. Using his own Vitae, he begins to teach them how to utilize their Thin-Blood Alchemy to better protect and defend themselves.
For now, John's work here is done. The Assamite makes his way out of the dilapidated apartment building and drives off.
With nothing much else to do, he decides to drive to the dojo he teaches at. It's a few kilometers away from where he is. He makes sure to stop by a flashy petrol bunk and fill up his car. He pays in cash, looks around, and goes off.
John thinks to himself as he drives, "Damn. Anyway, I might as well check up on the dojo...just in case they're done fixing up whatever happened to the place."
The Assamite Neonate arrives at the dojo after an hour so. There are no other cars around and it seems to be peaceful and quiet. John makes his way to the front door.
From the outside, it looks quite impressive. The transparent floor-to-ceiling windows are clean and shiny, the white-washed walls look brand new, and the black steel door is spotless and in perfect condition.
"Hmm, new door. Cool."
The sign that says: "Al-Kushraf #1 Kenpo Dojo" is also very shiny and new. There's also an Arabic translation underneath the English text.
John tries the door and it's locked. He looks through the window and sees that the red matting is still as grimy as ever. The white walls seem to be a little too...white.
A light on the ceiling flickers rapidly; that's been there since he started working here a few weeks back.
"Still haven't fixed that 1 light. Hmph."
All in all, this place gives out some serious McDojo vibes. John is painfully aware of the many signs, but he needs the work. It pays the bills and gives him a roof over his head.
The other (supposedly "higher-ranking") instructors constantly go on and on about fucking Krav Maga. There are surprise fees and costs to literally everything, and there's no specification on which "style" of Kenpo is taught.
Moreover, it's all heavily commercialized and given that UAE flashiness and garish flare that simply taints the very core of what Kenpo is supposed to be about.
"Tch, I really don't have much of a choice. Fuck," John thinks back on all the shit he's been through since he started teaching here.
Whether it's deluded middle class types thinking they'll learn the "touch of death" and whatnot, or some tough-guy alpha male weirdo who just wants an excuse to beat people up, the dojo's patrons can be quite...varied.
Of course, some people genuinely seem curious and interested in Kenpo, fitness, and martial arts in general, so John tries to encourage these types of people and spends time training them when given the chance to do so (which isn't very often, sadly).
But it's mostly people who are just looking for some way to pass the time and spend the extra dosh they got lying around, so he really has his work cut out for him.
He can't even remember the last time he was able to practice Kenpo properly (or at all), with no interruptions or distractions, as well as with a group of people who actually seem to be dedicated.
These Thin-Bloods, to him, were quite refreshing- receptive, respectful, and willing to listen to and understand what John was teaching.
John runs his finger across the window and snickers, "Hmph, well. As much as I'm not a fan of degrading and bastardizing the art of Kenpo to second-rate consumerist trash, I...choose my belly over my pride any night. Hmmph."
The Assamite shrugs, kicks a nearby rock away, and saunters back to his perfectly serviceable car. Before getting in, he looks over his shoulder and thinks about certain things.
He gulps and remembers how he essentially abandoned the pen for the sword. Oh, yes, in mortal life, John Suarez was a writer for a particularly nasty rag of a newspaper back in Magnolia City.
Certain...things happened that essentially caused him to abandon his venomous pen (typewriter) for more...physical activities.
He's a damn good writer, warts and all, and he could easily score a job in a major newspaper or a magazine here in the UAE, but he abandoned that a long time ago.
As soon as his Sire's fangs sank into his neck, his entire world changed dramatically and drastically. John stopped being the crappy person he used to be and has become someone else entirely.
Of course, it took time for John to adjust to his Unlife. He was rash, reckless, and downright cocky during the initial years, and he got his ass kicked on numerous occasions, but he eventually learned and adjusted to this new way of Unlife.
That, in no small part, was thanks to the efforts of Dr. George Fateh. He's also of the Blade of Haqim and gently and patiently taught John many-a-thing.
John's thoughts then go to his other close friend, Abdullah. The 2 met in Dubai many years ago, and since then they've gone through a lot together.
With a wistful look on his face, John mutters, "I hope I turned out...well, Dr. George. Wherever you are, stay safe, old man. It's...it's not getting any nicer or easier for us here in this world. It's just getting...harder and harder."
With the many thoughts of worrying about the fate of his fellow Assamites (those of the Blade in particular) and their struggles weighing on his mind, John takes off.
The window is rolled down, so the night breeze blows John's hair about. He puts an earphone in his ear and lets the ever-so-soothing voice of none other than Kristin Mainhart fill his ear and bring some semblance of calm to his mind.
He hums along, a small smile dancing on the corners of his mouth. He drives along the dark and winding roads of Al-Kushraf, knowing full well that he'll need to bring his all in order to prepare himself for whatever comes next.
John figures he'll spend the rest of the night in his apartment, reading and relaxing, before taking a long and much-needed shower. He makes sure to drive back to his Haven slowly.
The streets are relatively quiet and peaceful at this late hour. The occasional car or bike zooms past the Assamite. He chuckles to himself, knowing full well that he is more than capable of outrunning a fast vehicle thanks to his Celerity Discipline.
He could, in theory, run speedy laps around any of these cars and bikes until he gets tired, but John is not a show off. There was a time when he was, but...that was so long ago.
For the sake of others around him (his Childe mainly), John Suarez strives to be a better man than the piece of crap he once was.
Still, till now, he has not talked to Svetlana about his past. Even Svetlana hasn't been very forthcoming about certain things in her own past, but that's vastly different to John's own circumstances.
For all John knows, his Childe might know more about him than he thinks, or she might have some secrets of her own. Either way, there's a lot they both need to figure out (and talk about).
In good time, John is back in his Haven. He's snug in his bed as dawn soon approaches. He remembers yet another...incident from his past. This one is very personal, though it was a long time ago.
"Go on, Jacob. You know you wanna do it. Do. It."
"J--John, c'mon, let's just cut his head off. D--Don't make me D--"
John's voice gets more forceful and acerbic, "Diablerize him, hmm? He's a fucking creep, anyway. No one's gonna miss him. Destroying Giordano is way too easy."
Jacob gulps and looks very conflicted, "I--I don't know, man. Wha--what are, like, the consequences of doing such a thing?"
John scoffs at the Lasombra, "'Consequences?' Jacob, Diablerie is...is a very spiritual experience."
John stirs in his sleep and tries to banish these unpleasant memories.
Some time later, the Assamite and the Lasombra are in some kind a tomb. John looks really pissed and is covered in blood.
He sharply glowers at Jacob, "Are you afraid of me, Jacob?"
Jacob gasps and his eyes widen, "Wha--?! No! I--"
"You are, aren't you? You should be. I'm fast. You saw what I was able to do to that guy's Ghouls. I'm offering you a taste of this Hecata creep. Don't chicken out on your friend. Don't be a coward." His tone is low and threatening.
Jacob gulps and is visibly nervous, "I--I don't think you understand. This is--" He's interrupted by the Assamite grabbing him by the neck and shoving his face into an sliced-open wound on Giordano's staked body.
John stirs and wriggles around in his day-sleep, the sun outside beginning its grand ascent over the horizon. His mind is not at ease and his thoughts are troubled.
The Assamite feels a sense of dread, a foreboding of things to come.
"No...no. Jacob. No." John's eyes roll back and his body goes still. His eyes flutter closed and his words trail off.
Chapter 10: Smother
Sometime after his Embrace, John sorta went "rogue", made friends with a Lasombra named Jacob, and eventually goaded him into Diablerizing a Hecata Elder named Giordano.
This occurred decades ago, but one senses that the consequences of such an action (especially for Jacob since he's the one who completely consumed Giordano's essence) will weigh heavily on both of them in the nights to come.
For his part, John feels really awful about it all nowadays, and the guilt continues to eat away at him. It's almost as if John can feel his own inner turmoil.
Even in his near-dead state of day-sleep, the sun shining brightly above and bathing the land below, the Assamite can sense this impending sense of dread.
His eyes remain closed, his body remains cold and still, yet his mind is restless. He involuntarily twitches in his bed, trying to get some proper rest. In time, the twitches stop and he looks as peaceful as a corpse.
Morning time in this vast Middle Eastern metropolis is characterized by the usual routine- work, school, shopping, chores, errands, family, friends, all the mundane, everyday stuff.
Thanks to the Masquerade (and the varying ways in which its upheld or enforced around these parts), the mortals go about their day, completely (some more than others) oblivious to the supernatural beings amongst them.
Meanwhile, in Seth's cult compound...
Seth Steale sleeps his day away in the comfort of his 2nd Haven. Surrounded by high walls, armed guards, and devoted cultists, the day-sleep of the Typhonist High Priest is as peaceful and undisturbed as can be.
To the untrained eye, he looks like a corpse- pale, stiff, unmoving, and utterly devoid of any semblance of life or movement.
Edwin, on the other hand, walks around the compound. He's got an apple in his hand- it's not from the cult's organic food stock, but from a local shop.
He munches on the crunchy and juicy fruit, relishing the sweet flavor that explodes on his tongue. The sun is high above and it's almost noon. He politely nods towards a few cultists and exchanges banal pleasantries where required.
Seth's Ghoul has got this strange feeling in his bones. After what his master made him do, he feels very uneasy, disturbed, and distraught. His mind is full of questions and doubts, yet his loyalty remains true (as is to be expected).
He continues to walk the perimeter of the compound and he keeps his guard up. A few of the mercs glower at him, but don't really do much else. He stops by to say "hi" to Dembe.
She's at the reception area, filing her nails and preening herself. She's wearing a t-shirt and jeans.
Edwin has been told that she's a university dropout, but that's really all he knows about her. She looks up from her work and shoots him a smile, "Hello, Edwin."
Edwin smiles, "Hello, Dembe. How are you today?"
"With Typhon's grace and the presence of the High Priest, I am...well. How about you?" she asks, looking at him intently.
Edwin nods, "I am very well, Dembe. I'm just taking a walk."
Dembe dreamily opines, "It is a beautiful place that brother Steale has built for us, yes?"
The Ghoul stifles a sigh, "Hmm...yes. I suppose it is."
Dembe gives him a narrow look, head turned sideways, "Something is troubling you, isn't it? What is it, brother Edwin?"
Edwin presses his lips into a straight line, "I don't really want to talk about it right now, Dembe. Uh...actually, Seth...err, brother Steale wanted to know how Ms. Victoria Archibald was doing."
Dembe frowns and sighs, "Well, the last I heard, she is still sick and unable to even get out of her bed."
Edwin scratches his chin and sighs, "Has anyone paid her a visit yet?"
Dembe shakes her head, "Apart from a few of our brothers and sisters, no."
Edwin takes the final bite from his apple and tosses the core into the nearby garbage bin. He sighs deeply, "Hmm, I think I might pay her a visit on behalf of the High Priest."
He walks over to the reception area's exit and steps outside. He breathes in the warm, humid air of the city and takes a good look at his surroundings.
Feeling quite indifferent to all the cultists working under the sweltering sun, he heads to Victoria Archibald's villa.
Edwin rings the doorbell and a familiar (albeit strained) voice calls out, "It's open!" It sounds posh, crusty, old, and snooty.
The Ghoul opens the door and steps inside. The first thing he sees is a cultist dabbing a wet cloth over Victoria's forehead.
The girl with the bob haircut dips the cloth in a bucket of nasty brown water, squeezes it, and brings it down on Victoria's head. She smiles and hums as she does so.
Edwin clears his throat, "Ms. Archibald, I'm here at the request of brother Seth. How are you feeling today?"
Victoria Archibald looks to be in her late-70s. Her face is wrinkly, her lips are thin. Her graying hair is loose and messy. She wears a flowery blouse and a simple blue skirt. Her feet are bare and covered in blisters.
She's relaxing on her double bed, her back against the headboard, "Hmm? Oh. hello, Edwin darling. I--I'm doing fine by Typhon's graces. Just a bit...tired." Her eyes are half-closed, and she seems very tranquil and comfortable.
The cultist coos, "Sister Victoria, allow the Serpent Water to wash over you. Permit it to heal your every ailment, pain, and discomfort." Her voice is sickly sweet and saccharine.
"You are too kind, darling. Thank you, dear," Victoria closes her eyes and takes a deep breath, her lips parted.
Edwin grimaces, kind of taken aback, at the fact that this cultist is dabbing dirty water on this rich old lady's forehead, but he says nothing. He takes a seat on a nearby chair.
Victoria opens her eyes and says, "I--I apologize for my state, Edwin. I would rise to greet you, but alas, my wretched body will not allow me to."
Edwin calmly says, "It is alright. Seth wanted me to come in and check on you. We...he missed your presence at the last sermon."
Victoria groans and turns to face the Ghoul, "Typhon's will be done, then."
The Ghoul awkwardly laughs, "Indeed, sister. Typhon's will be done."
Victoria slowly and laboriously gets up and tries to take a few steps, but her legs give out. The other cultist quickly catches her before she falls. She gently guides her back on her bed, then sits beside her.
The cultist is very touchy-feely with the old woman. She strokes her face and arms, whispers sweet nothings and lies, and gently combs her hair with an unclean brush.
Unlike other cultists, Victoria is a special somebody who gets the privilege of staying in a house of her own. She's a remarkably wealthy woman with ties to the British aristocracy, and her money is no doubt used to fund certain parts of the cult's operations.
To Edwin's understanding, this means she gets more or less whatever she wants, whenever she wants. Barring certain limitations, of course.
Her house is very homely. The wooden floor is covered in a very worn-out rug. There's a wooden TV cabinet, a small coffee table, a desk, a fridge, and a bathroom. The walls are white.
There are pictures of Victoria's adult children, and the only window in the room has a pair of royal maroon curtains that are closed.
She joined Seth's cult while on a grand holiday throughout the Middle East. The Serpent managed to convince her that the hole in her life could only be filled by him, and that no other person or entity could ever hope to do such a thing.
Victoria sighs and smiles, "I--I'm so pleased to see you, Edwin. How is our beloved High Priest?"
The Ghoul sits upright and forces a tight smile, "He...fares well. He is currently resting--"
The cultist lady cluelessly chimes in, "Why don't we ever see the High Priest during the day? Is it because his form is so powerful and holy that it simply can't take the daylight?"
Victoria is annoyed by her interruption, because she's the type that doesn't like being talked over or interrupted. She doesn't really like the woman, and she knows she's a bit of a weirdo, but it's better than staring at the walls all day long, so she entertains the notion.
Edwin nods, "Hmm, yes. The light of this world...um...it simply is incompatible with Seth's...with the High Priest's sa--sacred form. You would do better to ask him yourself, sister. Provided he...is in the mood to give you an answer."
That's certainly 1 way to explain how the Setites Abhor the Light more so than any other Clan.
The cultist nods, her eyes glazed over. She mumbles, "Praise be to Typhon, and blessed is the voice of Apep." She stands up, bows her head, takes her bucket of sicko water, and leaves.
Victoria sighs in disgust, "Puh...good riddance. Such rabble are only fit to pick the fruits, clean the mess, and keep the grounds tidy."
Edwin doesn't respond, but he does feel a bit sorry for the cultist who just left. She's just regurgitating and doing what's been taught to her.
Victoria goes on, "At least Seth was sensible enough to sequester the more important members of his organization, like myself, from the rabble."
Edwin scratches the back of his neck, "Yes, well, he is the High Priest after all. His decisions are final."
"Hmm, indeed. So, how was the sermon, my dear boy? I heard someone with a very...Irish-sounding name dedicated himself to Typhon. Are you certain it is wise to admit such...people into our fold?"
"You a--are not the judge of that, sister. However, I am quite certain the High Priest would want to hear your opinion on the matter."
Victoria scoffs and raises her chin, "Of course he should. Do you know how much I've donated to this...intriguing enterprise, hmm?"
Edwin remains silent and shakes his head. His expression reflects his uncertainty.
Victoria's expression darkens, "I have given him nearly everything that's mine. The remainder of it, however, is withheld in a secure trust, under my name and mine alone. I am the one who funds Seth's crusade."
She arrogantly declares, "I am the one who makes it possible for him to carry out Typhon's divine will."
She stops and begins to cough profusely, her voice straining, "Ah, pardon me, my dear Edwin. But I do have an opinion that I feel compelled to share."
"What is it, then?"
Victoria's throat is parched, so she groans and struggles to drink from the nearby glass of water on the nightstand. She spills some water and sighs, her lips dry and cracked.
"I would appreciate it if you could pour me some more water, my dear. A--Actually, why not fetch some Serpent Water?"
That's disgusting.
Edwin grimaces at her suggestion, "Why don't I make you some chicken soup and we can discuss your grievances in further detail?"
Victoria smiles, "How very...kind of you, Edwin. I do believe it's time for me to eat something."
As Edwin gets up, Victoria states, "You are a credit to your kind, Edwin. So many blacks these days...they are lazy and boorish. But you're different, aren't you, my boy?"
How the fuck does one even respond to that?
Edwin forces a smile, nods, and leaves. Maybe giving this old boot the Serpent Water ain't such a bad idea. Then again, one ought not to be surprised by Ms. Archibald's behavior.
Disgusted, yes. Surprised? No. Victoria Archibald is obscenely rich, is close to British royalty, and is as arrogant and haughty as they come; racism oozes out of every pore of the shriveled bodies of such fiends.
She's a wealthy old bitch, and she has used her wealth to do some pretty reprehensible things. She's been in the cult for a long time, and Edwin guesses she's not going anywhere soon.
Anyways, he goes to the shop to buy a packet of imported Knorr Chicken Delite Soup. It's all the way from India, and Edwin does have a soft spot for this particular brand of soup.
He also grabs a few bottles of mineral water. Ain't no fucking way he's making the soup with nasty-ass Serpent Water.
He heads back to Victoria's place, and she's waiting for him with an expectant look, "Ah, so nice of you to get a hot meal, my boy. It smells absolutely delightful!"
The Ghoul rolls his eyes and walks over to the kitchen to fetch a soup spoon. He pulls the chair closer to her, sits down, and mixes the piping-hot soup with a spoon.
Victoria points to the bowl with a weak finger, "Did you use Serpent Water to make it?"
Edwin confidently lies, "Yes. Of course I did. Mr. Steale insisted that I check up on you personally; he also wanted me to make sure that your every need is being taken care of."
Victoria sighs, her eyes closed, "You are truly a credit to your kind, Edwin."
Edwin feels kinda tempted to throw this scalding hot liquid right at her smug and wrinkly face, but alas...he has more self-control and restraint than that.
He continues to mix the soup with the spoon and takes a small whiff of it's chickeny aromas, "Ah. Yes, well. We must make sure the High Priest is kept...informed. In the meantime, do tell me about this."
He holds the spoon up to her lips and she makes a great effort to tilt her head forward and drink the soup. She groans and smiles. He slowly and gently brings the spoon to her mouth over and over again, making sure to gently blow before giving her a fresh spoonful.
2 things run through the Ghoul's mind as he feeds her: this is demeaning, but he has a feeling she abso-fucking-lutely loves the attention and care that's constantly being showered on her; and 2, this soup is the stuff!
Victoria holds her hand up and begins, "I do take issue with how...certain matters are being handled around here. I hope you will be able to relay all that I am about to say. I know you blacks have very weak minds." Her tone is very patronizing. It's also quite grating.
She has no right to talk to Edwin, or anyone else for that matter, in such a degrading and vile manner. But when you're a rich member of a vampire's cult, you can get away with just about anything.
Edwin calmly tells her, "I will try my best, Ms. Archibald. What vexes you, exactly?" He continues to gently feed her soup, making sure she swallows properly before giving her more. It's disgusting. The old hag, that is.
The soup is delicious, but it's a chore to feed this rich old bag of bones.
Victoria swallows another spoonful, "Ah, lovely. I can feel the Serpent Water revitalizing and rejuvenating my very soul."
Heh.
Edwin stifles a smirk and mixes the soup some more.
Victoria says, "For instance, the security around this compound could do with a...reassessment. These...South African mercenaries you've hired to guard us seem to have a bit too much...leverage, and...leverage in the wrong hands can be a catastrophic thing."
Edwin plainly responds, "I will talk to Seth about that. What else is on your mind?"
She snootily replies, "Far more than shall ever be on the mind of a simpleton boy such as yourself. I am also worried about outside scrutiny."
Edwin looks askance at her, "What do you mean by that?"
Ms. Archibald explains, "You see, our quaint little enterprise is bound to garner the attention of prying and nosy individuals with malicious intent- journalists, investigators, activists, that sort."
"I...see," is all Edwin can say. He looks down at the bowl of soup and sloshes it around with the spoon a few times. It takes a considerable amount of self-control for the Ghoul to maintain a cool and indifferent disposition.
He's only doing this because his Domitor asked him to, not because he feels any sympathy or kindness for this racist old biddy.
Seth would most definitely want to know what she has to say, so the retainer asks, "What would you have Seth...what would you have the High Priest do about this?"
Victoria gives Edwin a stern look, "What must be done, my dear boy. I can tell that you are not as stupid as you look, so you know what I mean. Let us not play games, my dear." She chuckles as she says that, but Edwin doesn't see the humor or levity.
She sighs, her body seemingly relaxed, "Ah. Such lovely soup. What brand is it, my dear?"
"Knorr. Imported."
She weakly nods, "Ah, yes. Them. I think my daughter o--or granddaughter has significant holdings in that company. She's living in Germany at the moment, you see..."
She spends the next few hours talking about her large family and how they're all scattered about, doing their own thang, or something. The Ghoul barely pays attention, but he's still kind enough to listen to her every word.
When the soup is finally gone and the talk about her family's exploits (both real and imagined) ends, Victoria groans and stretches, "Ahhh...such a delight. The healing properties of the Serpent Water are...well, divine, I dare say. You're too kind to do this." She chuckles.
Edwin is tempted to say, "It's not Serpent Water, ya daft old cow!" but instead he just shrugs and nods, "Mmm, I'll be sure to tell the High Priest."
Victoria adds, "We really should look into selling the Serpent Water, but under a different name of course. 'Seth's Elixirs' perhaps? That does sound intriguing, wouldn't you say?"
She goes on and on about the pros and cons of various other labels and branding that the nasty runoff water can be sold as, but Edwin is simply not having any of it. This old bag's not going to have a hand in anything his master is involved in, that's for sure.
She continues to mumble and talk, and Edwin pretends to pay attention for a little while longer.
She flits from 1 topic to another. Poor Edwin can feel a pain in his neck and back from how long he's been sitting there listening to this woman ramble on about this and that. He also gets a bad feeling in his stomach.
When Victoria finally runs out of breath, Edwin takes his opportunity and rises to his feet, "I really must be going now, sister Victoria. It was...lovely to speak with you again. I will be sure to relay your many wonderful and marvelous ideas to Seth."
Victoria beams with a smile, "You do that, dear Edwin. I hope you find the strength, the courage, and the will to follow through and do as you're told. Goodbye."
The Ghoul walks out of the old woman's house with a strange feeling. He looks up at the afternoon sky and shields his eyes from the intensity of the sun's rays. His thoughts turn to the things Victoria just said to him.
He can't believe such vile drivel even exists, yet...here she is. Living and breathing it. In truth, Seth's been trying to off her for months, but he first wants her to sign over all her assets to him. It's a real pain in the ass.
Victoria Archibald, from Edwin's understanding, saw a great increase in her (already) mountainous wealth during the Thatcher years. Her husband conveniently died of food poisoning, leaving her in charge of a vast conglomerate of companies that dabbled in many fields.
These days, however, her adult children are in control of most of her family's vast empire and holdings, yet she still gets some significant say and leverage, but it's mostly all smoke and mirrors.
Seth even allows her solicitor to visit her from time to time. Normally, outside visitors are strictly forbidden for cult members, but the rich devotees are always given a few leeways by the High Priest himself.
Such are the ways of our current world where class dictates just about every facet and aspect of "civilized" life.
Class relations can even be found in a secluded cult compound that's supposedly devoted to the worship of Typhon. This is truly the reality that a Ghoul like Edwin finds himself in.
Such, after all, is the price he now pays for a taste of immortality.
It's no secret that Seth wants all of the Archibald family's riches, but he needs Victoria to sign it over to him. Being the smooth-tongued, subtle, and conniving schemer he is, he has slowly been gaining the trust of Victoria over the years.
She sees Seth as a handsome and powerful man who is genuinely interested in her, and she believes herself to be his equal, or at least on par with him, despite being bedridden and on the verge of death.
She has no idea that he's a vampire part of a Clan of manipulators, corrupters, and schemers, or that he's just stringing her along with all this obscurantist crap. The Serpent knows what he's doing. This is not the 1st time he's done this sort of thing, and it won't be the last either.
As Seth blissfully sleeps the remainder of his day away, the mortal cultists continue to toil, pick fruits, clean up, and take care of other various and sundry matters. All is as it should be in the High Priest's compound.
Afternoon becomes evening, thus signaling that it is now time for the Kindred in this particular part of the world to rise from their day-long slumber.
While the sun retreats, Edwin naps on the sofa, snoring lightly. His sleep is interrupted by a sudden jolt and a strange sense of urgency that he can't explain. He can sense it, he can sense his Domitor beginning to rise from the pull of his void-like slumber.
It's a strange sensation that only certain Blood-Bonded retainers can truly experience- this primal connection and deep bond between the Domitor and their Ghoul.
It's more apparent in those that are close together than those that are far apart. And even after all Edwin has seen over these past few nights, he remains faithful to a fault. A part of him will always be loyal to his master.
He's known nothing else for years on end now.
A few minutes after sunset, the door to Seth's room is slowly and silently unlocked. Seth's movement is sluggish and languid as he leaves his room and slowly makes his way to the couch in the living area.
A small, but knowing smirk forms on his face. His Ghoul, loyal and obedient as ever, has waited for his master's awakening, just as he has for countless nights.
The Viper purses his dry lips, "Edwin. How are things going? All well?"
Edwin bows his head, hands clasped in front of him, "All is as it should be, sir. Ms. Victoria is as she has always been. I visited her earlier this morning."
Seth softly sighs, "Good, good. I'll have to pay her a visit after tonight's snake handling session. There is so much work to do and so little time."
Edwin's lips twitch at that, but he says nothing. Instead, he calmly nods, "As you wish, sir."
The Viper looks out the window at the dim lights in the distance. He licks his lips and snaps his fingers, "Why don't you bring whoever you can find- the more willing they are, the better, heh."
Edwin complies and goes to fetch a cultist for his Domitor to bite into. The cultists who have an inkling of an idea of what Seth is are way too eager to get the Dark Kiss upon their flesh. This is especially true for the more desperate, delusional, and hopeless ones.
After all, the whole purpose of Seth's cult is to have a stable Herd for him and his fellow Setites to feed upon. A Herd is a group of mortals who allow vampires to feed upon them.
Such is the power, the overwhelming feeling of the Kiss, that any mortal who gets bitten is cast into this state of bliss unlike any other. There are notable exceptions, of course. But for the most part, a person who gets bitten is rendered submissive and pliable.
After a few minutes, Edwin comes back with a devotee wearing a long white robe, no shoes, and a handmade flower crown. This guy looks kinda blasted out of his mind and not fully in the here-and-now.
The Setite looks at him and sniffs the air, "Yes, yes, this will do nicely."
The cultist's eyes widen and he immediately gets on his knees in front of Seth. He even extends his wrist and begs, "Oh, great High Priest. Most--most favored of Typhon. P--please impart your grace, your wisdom, your...blessing." He sounds like a true believer (tm).
Seth smirks and pushes the man's neck to the side, "As you wish, brother."
The Setite's fangs pop out and he bites into the cultist's neck, eliciting a groan and a squeal from him.
The Beast within Seth goads him into going all the way and killing this dude, but Seth controls himself and stops right on time. He gently cradles the dazed devotee's head and stares into his dark green eyes.
Seth whispers something inaudible to the devotee and proceeds to lick his wound shut. After that, Edwin comes over and helps the guy steady himself before leaving with him.
Seth throws his head back, licking the little blood dripping from his lips, and sighs, "Ahhh. It's good to...be in charge. It's good to rule over these people." He then rises from the couch and stretches.
A few minutes later, he spends some time in a nearly-dark room, deep in meditation. He mentally prepares himself for tonight's snake handling session. It's been a while since there's been one.
Edwin goes to the cult's snake vivarium and checks on all the slithering, hissing creatures that are locked up in their cages. It's a pretty impressive collection, actually, and it's getting even more extensive thanks to certain members.
When it's almost time for Seth's snake handling session to start, the devotees begin to pour into the main hall like last time. Eager mumbles and anticipating mutters can be heard from within.
The guards tense their shoulders and grip their SMGs a little tighter. It's all still surreal for some of them, but they are slowly getting used to the crazy shit that happens around here. Besides, they have stringent NDAs to adhere to.
Seth puts on his chasuble from last time, smooths over any wrinkles, and leaves his room with a calm expression. Edwin dutifully follows his master into the hall, and they take their places on the raised stage.
Seth clears his throat and holds his arms wide, "Brothers and sisters! Welcome, welcome! I hope that the morning was kind to you all, hmm? Yes?"
The cultists reply in unison, "Yes, High Priest."
Seth smiles and paces around, "Good, good. It's good to hear you've been hard at work. Toiling under the sun, growing your own food, and serving the Serpent, yes?"
"Yes!" they reply again.
He raises his voice, "Who has been faithful, my brothers and sisters?! Who amongst you has been truly dedicated to the will of Typhon?"
Almost all the cultists excitedly raise their hands and jump up and down in an attempt to get the High Priest's attention. The guards have a hard time maintaining a straight face at all this, but they maintain a stiff upper lip, and focus on keeping things in order.
Seth points towards 1 devotee in the front row, "Ah! You, yes, come here."
The devotee, a woman in her 30s, steps forward. Her eyes are wide with awe and wonder, and her cheeks are flushed with excitement.
"My, my. Eager, aren't we? Have you been serving Typhon to the best of your abilities, sister?"
She frantically nods and has this weird smile on her face, "Yes! Yes! Of course I have, High Priest!"
Seth places his cold hand on her back and invites her to tell the others a bit more, "Why don't you share your testimony with us, sister Anne, hmm? I'm sure the newer additions have never heard it. Why not give us a recap?"
The woman called Anne giddily claps, "Oh, it would be an honor to do so! Yes!" She takes a deep breath, her face lighting up like a Christmas tree, "Oh, my dear brothers and sisters! Fellow de--de--devotees! It would be an honor to tell you--"
She catches her breath, clears her throat awkwardly, and starts, "Well, err...it all began when I was on an exchange program..." She then begins to rattle on about how her life went to the gutter when she moved to the UAE.
She speaks at a mile a minute, but Seth places his icy hand on her shoulder and shoots her a tight look. She immediately catches herself and calms down, taking another deep breath. Her lips are curled into a tight smile, and her eyes are bloodshot and wide.
"So, so, I was pretty much going through the motions, mired in my despair. That's when...I met you, High Priest. You gave me the clarity of Typhon's purpose! And with it, the resolve and conviction to act on it, my beloved High Priest."
Seth calmly smiles as he stands besides her.
She continues, "You convinced m--me to th--throw off the shackles of modernity and...and embrace a life of pure simplicity and...purity! That is Typhon's divine will, after all, yes?!" she turns towards the audience to ask her rhetorical question.
They all shout, "YES!" and raise their arms up high in response.
She goes on for about 10 more minutes, breaking down nearly every detail of her past life. It's definitely TMI (too much information) for some of the people assembled here. This whole spectacle is getting a little tiresome.
Even Seth himself seems to be getting impatient. His smile is strained, and it's pretty clear that he's got other matters on his mind.
He walks behind Anne, stands close behind her, puts an arm around her, and gives her a small shake, "Sister Anne! Thank you so much for that...wonderful testimony. I'm sure it is a lesson for everyone, especially the newer members." His voice is kind of forced.
He sounds kind of irritated, actually.
He then sends her off, holds his arms up, and proclaims, "Now, my brothers and sisters! It's been a while since I've done this--"
Gasps of anticipation, murmurs of excitement. They've been waiting for this moment.
The Setite nods, "--so, let's do this right. You're excited, aren't you? I can feel it..." He takes on a more serpentine and slithery demeanor and tone as he says that last part. The crowd can feel it too. It's quite weird, but it works.
For them, anyway.
A few people clap and holler at the High Priest's words. After a moment, some cultists begin to bring snakes out onstage. The crowd watches on in awe and reverence, a few even go "woah" when they see the 1st snake.
Edwin stays a few feet behind Seth. His presence is more for moral support, if anything else.
The cultists look very afraid. Their lips quiver and their hands shake as they timidly hand over these poisonous and venomous hissing snakes to Seth. There are some cobras, a few vipers, a bunch of pythons, and a few other types.
The High Priest takes a cobra first, holds it aloft, and declares, "Blessed is the Serpent. Blessed is the Serpent! Blessed is Typhon!" He looks right at the cultists holding snakes and orders, "Stand back and witness the miracle!"
The cultists tightly grip their snakes and take a few steps back. The others watch in anticipation.
Seth playfully strokes the snake's chin with his index finger and lets it wrap its tail around his hand. The snake flicks its tongue out and hisses. Everyone watches on with wide eyes, barely breathing.
There are no cameras, no phones, no recording devices of any kind, just people living in the moment, heh.
Theo (the undercover NYT journalist who's already been busted, but he doesn't know it) pushes his way to the front to get a better look at what's about to go down. His eyes widen, and he tries to catch a few breaths.
This is something else, this is a scoop and a half! A journalist's dream. A true exposé. If Seth expires or isn't given medical attention after the venomous snake bites him, it's lights out.
But, what Theo doesn't know is that Seth is no dimwit in a snake handling revival- no, he's an immortal vampire with all sorts of mystical and arcane powers at his disposal, powers beyond Theo's limited imagination and comprehension.
Seth holds out his wrist and looks Theo right in the eye, as if taunting the man. He's playing the crowd and it's working. The snake hisses again. Its hood is fully flared, its tongue is out, and it's staring Theo in the face.
Seth mockingly goads, "Would you like to have a go, brother McClain?"
Theo holds out his hand, "Uh...nope. But, I'm interested to see how you're gonna uh...survive this one. That snake looks pretty nasty, doesn't it? You've uh...got balls, heh." His voice is shaking.
Seth smiles, "I've been handling snakes for quite a while. I am Typhon's favored one."
"So I've heard," Theo crosses his arms, pushes his glasses up his nose, and keeps his eyes locked on Seth. It's pretty damn intense. His heart is beating out of his chest, he can hear it ringing in his ears, and it's like he can taste the adrenaline coursing through his veins.
The undercover journalist raises his chin and waits. Seth extends his wrist to the snake. The serpent looks like it's going in for the bite. Theo clenches his fists, the crowd goes silent.
Seth looks on with an unblinking, serpentine look on his face. And, boom! The snake viciously bites into its prey's cold wrist. A collective gasp goes out amongst the crowd as the High Priest remains standing with a stoic expression on his face.
He lightly winces. Him being a vampire means the snake's venom has no effect on his system whatsoever, so it's really just a formality. A fun, weird, and entertaining formality. A ruse.
His face twitches, but he maintains his composure throughout it all. Seth invites the snake to bite him another time for good measure, and so it does, eliciting another pained expression from the High Priest.
Seth gives it a little shake, whispers something, then gives it back to a nearby cultist who is very careful to handle the snake properly. It's all for show. All an illusion.
But, a great one nonetheless.
The Typhonist maintains a straight face as he goes to get another snake from another cultist, this one looking longer, bigger, and meaner than the last. The cultist is also terrified. He looks like he's gonna pass out and throw up at the same time.
He's that scared. It's all in Seth's hands now.
A more sycophantic devotee inquires, "High Priest, are you OK? D--Do you require any help? Medic? First-aid kit? Some--some Serpent Water, perhaps?" The man stammers through his words and it's painfully awkward, but he seems sincere in his offer.
Seth plainly smiles, "All I require is Typhon's grace and your...devotion. Nothing else." He shoots the sycophantic cultist a cold, penetrating look. The man lowers his head and takes a few steps back, nearly tripping in his haste to retreat.
Seth pets this snake's head and turns his neck to the side as he allows the snake to coil its tail around him. It flicks its tongue and stares Theo dead in the eyes.
Theo clears his throat, "Well. Looks like it likes you, man." The reporter's tone is full of sarcasm and derision.
Seth ignores this and is bitten right in the neck by this big snake. He holds the snake's mouth and hisses through gritted teeth as his face contorts into a tight grimace (that's more for show at this point).
The audience looks on with bated breath, barely moving, barely breathing, and barely thinking.
He yanks the snake off of his neck and shakes it off before giving it back to its terrified handler. Next, he is given a dangerous snake with a triangular-shaped cross section. It's about a meter in length and is boldly colored in bands of black and yellow.
With a gasp, someone from the back announces, "It's a krait!"
Seth smiles and nods, "Indeed." The snake coils around the High Priest's cold and clammy arms, wrapping its tail around them. Its mouth is open, its fangs are dripping venom, and it looks like it's about to strike at any second.
The crowd's jaws are almost on the floor at this point, their eyes wide, their faces flushed, their arms held aloft.
Seth invites the cultists to "witness a true miracle" as he extends his other wrist to the snake and takes a deep breath. A moment passes by...then the snake bites down. Hard.
Normally, its venom would induce paralysis, but in the case of a Kindred, it's just stuff sloshing around their Unliving body.
A gasp, followed by another gasp, followed by yet another gasp! It's so dramatic and ridiculous, but everyone seems to be having a great time, especially the High Priest himself.
Seth wipes the side of his lips, smiles, and exchanges a knowing glance with Gallagher, who's all the way in the back. He's leaning against a wall, smirking.
Just then, Victoria is brought in via a wheelchair. Seth raises his chin and beckons for her to be wheeled forward so she can witness yet another great and wondrous miracle. She's surrounded by cultists (and a few guards) who keep a very close watch on her.
Victoria can barely speak, her throat so parched it's like a desert, "He--hello, High Priest. How...wonderful it is to see you...tonight. Oh, you are truly Typhon's favored."
Seth looks down at her from the elevation of the stage, "Hello, my dear sister. It is always a pleasure to have you attend these sacred rites, is it not?" His tone is calm, cool, and collected.
She looks like she's going to fall over any minute now, she just needs a little...push. But, that'll have to wait until after this joke of a show. Seth knows better than to make a mess in front of this much of a crowd, not now anyways.
"Typhon's will...be...done," she rasps, her voice strained.
Seth equably responds, "Of course. Always."
The last snake is brought to the High Priest. This slithery sucka is none other than the western taipan. It's fierce and delivers a veritable witch’s brew of toxins. It's appropriately referred to as "the fierce snake" for a reason.
Seth looks down at it with an impassive, snakelike expression. He looks into its eyes, as if he were telepathically communicating with it. For a split second, his own amber eyes turn into slits and he hisses.
The snake goes into a frenzy as it hisses back and opens its mouth wide, as if about to strike. It does strike, actually. Right at Seth's throat, delivering a mean venomous bite.
Victoria wheezes and gasps in fear at what she's just witnessed. The crowd gasps, a few cry out. It's intense and terrifying. Even some of the guards look a bit spooked.
Gallagher just stands there with a big grin on his face and a raised eyebrow. He finds the antics of his fellow Setite...oddly amusing, to say the least. He's not like other Setites, in many ways.
With some effort, Seth pulls the western taipan away from his throat and covers it quickly so no one can see the wound mending. His face twitches as he says in an ominously calm voice, "Y--You--shall--not--harm--ME!"
He hisses, and the snake quickly cowers and recoils in fear under his intense and serpentine glare.
Gallagher just chuckles at his fellow Kindred's display. That's how vampires can intimidate animals. Seth gives the deadly taipan back to its handler, who is very quick to remove it.
The High Priest proceeds to extend his arms to either side of his body. He triumphantly and boldly declares, "Witness the might and power of Typhon! Witness the...wonder!" his voice booms across the hall.
Everyone is watching in silence, barely breathing, barely even thinking. A few people look like they're going to pass out and drop.
Victoria remains surprisingly calm and expressionless, despite her initial reaction. She merely watches on with a blank look, her body slouching, and her hands twitching a bit. Her lips are cracked and dry.
Seth shoots her a smug look, his arms still stretched out, and takes a step forward, "I AM Typhon's most favored one; I am the instrument of Apep! Witness me and rejoice, my beloved Herd!"
He dramatically holds his arms aloft and takes a few more steps, the crowd now getting excited and louder. He holds his chin up high and begins to spin around with his arms out.
The devotees all cheer him on, shouting "Typhon! Tyhpon!" over and over again as Seth begins to jump up and down on the stage and prance about like a slimy preacher at a seedy tent revival.
The crowd loves it. The devotees all hold hands, they all raise their arms aloft, they all spin and jump and prance, following their High Priest's example. The hall is filled with chants, cheers, and laughter.
Theo is yanked by a random giggling cultist and spun around and around, almost causing the journalist to throw up and lose his lunch. Gallagher and Edwin just stand in the back, watching the madness unfold.
They're both unfazed by this shit show. Still in her wheelchair, Victoria looks on with cold indifference written all over her sallow and pitted face. She can't even be bothered to smile or do anything else for that matter.
She merely sits there, staring with vacant eyes.
This impromptu celebration drags on for a few minutes. Seth subtly signals the guards to stand back and allow him and his fellow devotees to go crazy for a little while longer. It's not like they have much else to do around here anyways.
Later on the same night...
Once the "celebration" has died down, the cultists meander back to their abodes- which vary from tight shacks to well-kept villas. A few cultists take it upon themselves to escort Victoria back to her place.
It's a pretty weird night, but things will be back to normal in no time. Ms. Archibald the posh is wheeled back to her room where she spends the rest of her time waiting for her next solicitor visit.
Seth and Edwin retire to the former's nearby Haven, where Gallagher is waiting with a big smile on his face, "Heeey! Helluva magic show back there. The rubes REALLY fell for it, huh?"
Seth plainly laughs and shrugs, "What can I say? Even Rafael admitted that I am a bit of a...showman, heh."
The ex-Sheriff concurs, "Yeah, you sure are. I gotta hand it to ya, Seth- that was pretty damn impressive."
He takes a moment to admire the décor in his buddy's Haven, "Hmm. Nice place ya got here, Seth. REALLY nice, in fact."
Seth plops himself down on the sofa and throws his head back, "Yes. It's a very cozy little spot. I like it." His eyes are closed, but he's still alert. His lips twitch into a smile.
He then turns to Gallagher, "So, what have you been up to these past few nights? Anything interesting going on in your world?"
Gallagher nods, feeling determined, "Oh, yeah. Definitely. I've been building up some really solid connections with a couple of heavy hitters in this fuckin' city."
He pauses for effect. "Well..." Another dramatic pause. "It's going well. I get enough dirt on 'em, and soon, they'll be eating right outta my grubby hands."
Seth slowly nods, "The Setite way. Good, good. And how's everything else? I'd like to think that your rededication to Typhon the other night wasn't just for show." He smirks at that last part.
Gallagher snorts, "Yeah...yeah. I've been catching up with the big Snake, but it's hard to wrap my head around most of it."
Seth offers, "Well, if you need any help at all, I'm right here, old friend."
Gallagher rubs the base of his neck, "Yeah, sure. Anyone else need their skull busted tonight? Any more bodies for me to dispose of? I'm good at that shit, y'know."
The Viper smirks, "Maybe soon. For now, let's just relax and talk. A few minutes...if you don't mind."
Gallagher takes a seat opposite his fellow Viper, "Sure, why not? What's on your mind, buddy?"
"I have a question regarding a certain somebody, Gallagher."
"Shoot."
Seth faintly chuckles, "It's about the Assamite- Svetlana Bobrov."
Gallagher can barely contain his disgust when that name is uttered, "Grrr. What the fuck about her?!" he growls a few times.
Seth sighs, "I'm just...curious about her. Intrigued, dare I say."
The former Sheriff sneers, "Well, don't be. She and that half-Mexican Sire of hers should've had their fucking heads cut off...BY ME! But--"
The High Priest cuts him off, "But Prince Angela wouldn't let you. Yes, yes, I've heard it a million times now. Just answer my question." His tone is more terse and demanding than usual.
Gallagher shrugs, "Fine. Ask away."
"What's she like? I mean, after her Embrace, how did she...adjust to it all?"
Gallagher sighs in a very exaggerated manner, "Ugh, fine. I'll tell ya." He rolls his eyes, "So, after that shithead John Suarez Embraced her, she spent a few years learning from him how to be an Assamite and all that shit."
He goes on, "From what I heard, it went pretty well. Within a year, she was getting good with knives and shit."
"Mm-hmm. Proceed."
Gallagher shakes his head, "She got brainwashed by all that Blade of Haqim nonsense- no surprise there. Russki dolls like her are only good for giving out free blowjobs, doing petty crimes, and being lapdogs, heh."
Seth gets a bit defensive, "Svetlana doesn't seem dull to me. If anything, her Sire is holding her back from her true potential."
Gallagher side-eyes his friend, "Dude, oh my fucking god! Y--you've got the hots for her. Admit it, you do! You goddamn stud. When did this happen, huh?"
Seth turns his head aside, his eyes and tone getting dreamy, "When she and her fellow Assamites first arrived here seeking refuge from the attacks, I knew she was something special. Those green eyes of hers..."
He turns to Gallagher, "I saw something in them." He closes his eyes, "And...I felt things I, admittedly, haven't felt in a--a while, heh."
"Jesus. Why her? There's plenty of Russian asses for a handsome guy like you to slam in this fucking city. You don't need some second-rate, goddamn Assamite--"
Seth holds up a finger and firmly says, "Gallagher, enough. It's just that...I feel something, a spark, a connection between us. She seems so lost and and distant and alone, and I just want to be there for her."
"Awww, well isn't that just so fucking sweet," Gallagher sneers.
Seth ignores that, "Hmph. Well, you have to know more about Svetlana than you're letting on."
Gallagher sternly retorts, "No. I don't. After Angela got in the way of ME DOING MY JOB, I fucking quit and--and...well, you know the rest, don't you?"
Seth looks at his friend, "Hmm, indeed. At least we were able to save you before you lost yourself entirely."
Gallagher has a fearful look on his face, "I...I don't wanna go back there again, Seth. I can't. No. I'm fine now, and that's how I wanna stay forever. I--If I have to drain someone whole to satiate my Beast, I fucking will."
"As will I, old friend. As will I. Be grateful that you're part of the only Clan that has a...cure to the Wassail."
Gallagher gasps and gulps, "Always, man. Al-fucking-ways." He looks down at his cold, clammy hands, then back at Seth, "You--you sure I'm not gonna get hit again?"
Seth dryly answers, "That's up to you, Ewan. I can't make that very personal decision for you. I can only ensure that you have access to a stable Herd to feed from."
Gallagher cracks a weak smile, "Like your cult?"
"Yes. That's the whole purpose of this, anyway. The miracles, the razzle-dazzle, the so-called 'rituals'...it's all just a smokescreen to mask what we're really doing here."
Gallagher leans back, "Yeah, yeah. I got it. I totally do, man. Mortals like their uh..."
A few seconds pass in awkward silence before Gallagher breaks it, "Uh...stuff. Rites? Is that what--ach, fuck it. Never mind. It's our own goddamn personal pantry and I don't really care where or how the cow's butchered."
"Ah, I see. So, it's a glorified pantry for us and nothing else, then?"
"Basically."
Seth nods, "I thought so." He turns away for a moment and takes a deep breath, "Well, Ewan. I need your help tonight."
Gallagher cracks his knuckles and sits up, "Oh, yeah. I finally get to put my skills to some goddamn use. Who do you need me to knock out and bring to you, huh?"
Seth replies with a tight look on his face, "No one. Not yet, anyway."
Gallagher is taken aback by this, "What?! So, what DO you need my help with?"
"Ah, Gallagher. Are you practicing those mindfulness techniques I told you about?"
"Uh, yeah. I'm trying, man. It's been tough, but I'm slowly getting there, y'know? Slowly."
The Viper smiles, "Good, good. That's good to hear. Keep it up. Allow yourself to be detached from your feelings. From your emotions. From the world itself. Let it all wash over you. Understand?"
Gallagher slowly nods, "I...think...so?"
"Good, good. Now, I need your help with something. Come with me, but wait outside. She...doesn't really like people like you."
Gallagher's face scrunches up, "The fuck's that supposed to mean?! She?! Who?!"
Seth gets up and wordlessly walks to the front door of his Haven, beckoning Gallagher to follow him. The other Kindred doesn't really know what to say or do right now. He's just going with the flow.
After Seth locks the front door, he leads Gallagher to Victoria's villa. Edwin follows close by, keeping his head down and hands clasped together in front of his body.
They walk down the path, the night's cool breeze wafting across their skin. It's not an entirely unpleasant feeling, but it's certainly not a comfortable one either.
Seth simply tells Gallagher to wait outside. He'll be called inside when needed. Even the Ghoul is ordered to stay outside and keep watch. He does so without complaint or question; this is his Domitor's will, after all.
Seth knocks on the front door and politely waits for an answer.
"IT'S OPEN!" Victoria's voice croaks from within.
Seth pushes the door open and steps inside, "Hello, Ms. Archibald. How are you this evening?"
Victoria puts a book aside. The title clearly reads: "The Path to Power". On it is a picture of a younger-looking Margaret Thatcher smiling. Of course.
"Hello, my darling," she says in a dry, raspy voice. She has a hint of annoyance written all over her face.
Seth walks up to her and gently puts a hand on her shoulder, "How are you this evening, Victoria?"
She looks up at him and smiles, "By Typhon's boundless grace, I persist and will continue to do so. Until that day comes, I will continue to oversee my many business and familial affairs from the comfort of this fine villa."
Seth nods, "Yes, yes, that's the spirit. I have no issues with your solicitor coming to see you every now and then, but make sure he understands the importance of...discretion, yes, hmm?"
Victoria responds, "Of course, my boy. NDAs do not exist as mere suggestions, my dear. I have been around long enough to know how to keep my affairs in order."
Seth's face twitches into a scowl, "I'm sure you have. I'm sure you have. Well, I too, have been around for quite a while."
Victoria dismissively waves her hand, "Spare me the vampire gobbledygook. It might work on lesser minds, but I am an educated woman- Eton."
Seth forces a smile, "Oh, I'm well aware of your qualifications, Ms. Archibald. But, I am what I say I am. I don't go around revealing my true nature for fun or for the heck of it."
"Tch. You are shrewd and cunning, yes, but you are most certainly not a vampire or that other elaborate and rosy name you have for it. Your natural charisma and charm is more than enough, I don't see the need to go further."
Seth's nostrils flare as his smile turns into a grimace, "Very well then. I suppose you're right, Victoria. Let us move on to something else, shall we?"
Victoria holds up a finger, "But I will concede 1 thing, Mr. Steale."
"Which is?"
"Werewolves most certainly do exist. I saw 1 when I was a young lady. I was out...fox hunting as those of my pedigree are oft wont to do, and I saw 1 when I veered off the path. It was big...and mighty."
Seth crosses his arms and listens intently, "Well, what did you do?"
Victoria's expression grows distant, "Well, I shot at...it. The moon was full, glistening high in the sky. I could've sworn it...changed, but I couldn't really see much. My vision was blurry due to my glasses being broken from earlier in the day. My horse threw me off, you see."
"I see. Interesting. We call them the Garou."
"Yes, I know that, darling. Over the years, I have commissioned investigations, inquiries, and research into these...beings. Most of what I have uncovered has been...very useful."
Seth asks, "So, have you ever encountered any more?"
"No. It was only years later w--when the memories of that night came back to me. As a matter of fact, I don't recall much of that particular evening," she shakes her head.
Seth nods, "Ah, I see." He looks down at her frail and sallow face, "Well, what doesn't kill us only serves to make us stronger, wouldn't you agree?"
Victoria nods, "Nietzsche. Well said. So, what brings you here, Mr. Steale? Have you given thought to any of the numerous grievances I've raised?"
Seth merely nods, "I have, yes. Edwin was kind enough to relay them to me."
She smirks, "And?"
"And I have given some thought to it, Victoria. I can understand your frustration, but I have to remind you of your place here: I am the High Priest, and you...are--"
He catches himself, "Well, you're you. Important, yes, but not THAT important, hmm?"
Victoria looks genuinely surprised by this, "Oh, I always thought of us as equals. Besides, my m--money does help keep this whole thing afloat, no?"
"Of course. I'm well aware of your...contributions to the organization, but--"
She cuts him off, "Yes, yes. Do not patronize me, young man. I think I have done more than anyone else in this enterprise to earn myself a position of authority here."
Seth frowns, "And you do. But, your authority is limited to...well, your financial contributions. Nothing more." He speaks in a very clipped and precise tone.
Victoria wiggles on her bed, "I--I see. Well, I suppose it's just another example of...a lack of understanding between our 2 camps, yes? A cultural divide, if you will."
Seth looks her dead in the eyes, "I don't know what you mean."
"It must've been something your manservant said to you. Or perhaps it was the way in which he said it--"
Seth stops her, "Edwin's 1st language is English, Victoria. So, you have nothing to worry about in that regard. He told me exactly what you said earlier in the morning."
Victoria sighs and throws her head back, "But, why then? Why is it so hard to...get past these issues?!"
Seth gets up and paces around, "Why, indeed? Hmm?" He picks up the book on her nightstand and flips through it, "Thatcher. Oh my. Not exactly light reading, heh."
Victoria raises her chin, "She was absolutely correct about 1 thing."
"Which is?"
"There is no such thing as society. There is only the individual."
Seth lightly chuckles, "I agree. The man who made me what I am today said that there is also no such thing as 'Truth' with a capital-T."
Victoria smiles, "Yes, well, you are correct. And so is he. People like us, Mr. Steale, make our own truths. We shape our own destinies and we live by our own rules."
Seth sits down, "Yes, I'm well aware of that fact. I've been doing that for decades now."
Victoria's face scrunches up, "Tsk. I don't think so, darling. But, I'll play along with these vampire delusions of yours. So, how did you come to be Dracula, hmm?" her tone is mocking and condescending.
Seth replies with a tight look on his face, "My dear, you wouldn't believe me even if I told you. You have no idea what I'm capable of or who I've become."
"The night is still young, my dear High Priest. I have time for a fantastic bedtime story."
Seth dryly smiles, "I'm sure you do. I'll give you the abridged version: a man by the name of Rafael De La Cruz Sired me into a Clan known simply as...the Ministry. It was all the way back in the 1940s if I recall correctly."
Victoria snort-chuckles, "And here I thought vampires would be much more...exotic than that. The Ministry? What kind of a ridiculous name is that? And Clans?! My boy, I thought you were better than this. This is beneath you."
"It's the truth. I can't lie to you, Victoria. That wouldn't be right," Seth's tone is smooth as butter and sly as a snake that's about to strike.
Victoria mockingly smiles, "Hmm, you mustn't do this, Seth."
Seth counters, "Then, pray tell, how would you explain me surviving all those snake bites earlier tonight?"
Victoria chuckles, "You used some or the other method, adenopathy most likely, to de-venom the snakes and ensure that you didn't die on the spot, dear boy. Simple." Her voice is all haughty and arrogant.
It's like she thinks she knows everything and is incapable of being wrong.
Seth sighs and leans in, "No, no. Those snakes ARE poisonous. As a matter of fact, a devotee mishandled a few a week ago, and well...RIP as they say, heh."
Victoria regards him for a few moments, her eyes scrutinizing him as if he were a new species of insect to be dissected and studied. He looks back with an even stare and a tight smile.
Her lips twitch into a slight smirk, as if she were laughing at some joke that only she knows about.
She wonders out loud, "Well, Mr. Steale, if there is no such thing as a society or an objective truth, then what are we left with?" One gets the impression she knows the answer already.
Without skipping a beat, Seth responds, "Power, Ms. Archibald. Power is all we're left with."
An approving smirk dances on the corners of her mouth, "Very good, very good. And the only power that really matters is...the economic kind." Her eyes twinkle as she says that last part.
Seth curtly nods, "I concur. Speaking of, have you considered my offer when we last spoke?"
Victoria scoffs, "I am not dying anytime soon, High Priest. As such, I intend to hold on to what is rightfully mine for a little while longer."
The Setite indifferently nods, "Hmm, I see. Edwin told me you have...issues with the mercenaries who've been hired to...keep an eye on the compound?" It's like he can't even be bothered to feel annoyed anymore.
This harridan is exhausting, like a caricature. She's a real piece of work.
Victoria weakly nods, "Yes, indeed. I would recommend a more viable alternative- Gen4 Security."
"What makes them so special?"
"I know the Director Of Operations. Her name is Baroness Maybelline Pentham. I'm sure you could get a far better deal than whatever these South African mercenaries are giving you." She seems quite smug when she says this.
"Is that so?"
Victoria smirks, "Of course." Her smile quickly fades and a dark shadow falls across her face as her voice drops a few decibels, "If you choose to do business with Gen4, do let me know. I would love to facilitate an introduction."
"I'll keep it in mind, Victoria. Edwin also mentioned that you're concerned about 'outside scrutiny'. Care to elaborate?"
Ms. Archibald props herself up and groans in pain, "Arghhh. Y--Yes. Inevitably, our little enterprise is bound to attract the attention of the wrong sort of people."
Seth calmly reassures her, "I have it under control, Victoria. As a matter of fact, I personally dealt with a certain troublesome devotee after my last sermon."
"Ah. Very good. Very good. I see you're not afraid to get your hands dirty, eh? I personally delegate such unpleasant matters to those whom I pay unusually large sums of money to."
Seth faintly chuckles, "We all have our own way of doing things. You prefer...the comfort of distance and I prefer a more, shall we say, hands-on approach."
"Cheeky boy," Victoria lets out a raspy cough. She continues, "It's really quite remarkable, Seth, how much we have in common, yet, we have our differences as well, hmm? Like 2 peas in a pod, as they oft say."
Seth coolly replies, "Maybe, maybe not. But I've been around for a long time, Ms. Archibald."
Victoria sighs deeply, "Do not permit your delusions of grandeur to impede you. Youth is relative, fleeting, and all that. Just look at me and all my accomplishments." Her voice trails off a bit at that last bit.
Seth fixes his serpentine gaze on her, "Yes, indeed. Look at you- a lifetime of accumulating wealth, power, influence, and status...only to see it all go spent on a cult in the middle of the desert." He sneers, but it's almost affectionate.
Victoria is unshaken and undaunted by these words, "Not all of it. What I've parted with is merely a tip of the proverbial iceberg, darling. Be a good boy and there will be more where that came from." She gives him a knowing smile.
Seth lets out a small chuckle, "I know that all too well, Ms. Archibald. I'm...happy you're still in our corner. Your presence here is..."
Victoria interjects, "Greatly appreciated? Merely tolerated? Begrudgingly accepted? Come now, Mr. Steale. That look on your face...you want more, don't you? What happened to my last donation?"
She reminds him, "Which, I might add, was rather substantial. You couldn't have possibly blown it all off so quickly now, have you? How much do you want now, hmm?"
Seth is clearly growing agitated by all this talk. He lets out a slow exhale before replying, "Y--Yes. I might've been unwise with the finances--"
"Hire an accountant. I know a few, pardon the crudeness, unscrupulous ones who are willing to look the other way if you catch my meaning. They do so enjoy their little...slippery slope of a lifestyle." She taps the side of her nose.
Seth blinks, "I don't think so, Victoria. No, I can handle things. It's just that...expenses have been higher these past few months."
"Hmm, and what happened to...that one?" There's disdain in her voice when mentioning whoever "that one" is.
The Setite's face tightens, "She...he had to go. I can't have someone like that around here. I can't have someone like that around my flock."
"I concur. I can't believe we were fooled for so long. The surgeries and procedures, you must admit, are fairly convincing, no?"
Seth grimaces, "Hmph. Convincing and passable. Sick. He came to me sometime back and told me everything, and well...I told him to leave."
"Good riddance, then. Sylvia was her name, yes?"
Seth nods, "Indeed. The prior name was Sylvester. They...call it a deadname, I believe."
Victoria exhales sharply, "Madness run amok, Mr. Steale. Madness run amok! Back in my time, we did not have to contend with this nonsense. It would've been unheard of! Oh, the audacity!" She sounds so dramatic.
Seth simply nods, "Times have changed. The world is a very different place now. Too tolerant for my tastes, heh."
Victoria muses, "That is why you are here, hmm? To free us little lost lambs from the shackles of modernity and such nonsense?" she seems rather amused by that.
"Indeed. That's what my sermons are for. To guide them all to the Path of Typhon. Tolerance, indolence, and indulgence are all hallmarks of modern life and its...endless vacuousness."
Victoria nods and begins to cough, "Well, I for one am glad that you're here to lead us poor souls back onto the right path, High Priest."
"Good, good. Be happy in the knowledge that your money is being put to good use around here."
"It better be. I will let your recent indiscretion slide, Mr. Steale. I am a remarkably patient woman."
Seth stands up and slowly walks over to the open window. He shuts it and pulls the curtains shut.
"I'd actually prefer if you left that open, darling."
Seth ignores her and goes to a cabinet in another room to look for a pillow.
"Seth? Seth?!"
He rummages through it and finds a large, fluffy pillow. He comes back, holding it tightly in his hands.
"Oh, thank you. How very thoughtful of you, darling. I've been having trouble sleeping at night. So many thoughts keep popping into my head. Now, please, open the--"
Seth's expression hardens and he strides towards Victoria with an ominous look on his face. She tries to back away, but her body is too frail and weak to move at the moment.
"Wait. No. No! What--what are you doing? STOP--!"
He growls and hisses as he smothers the old lady with the pillow. He applies maximum pressure, ensuring that she cannot breathe.
Victoria can't even muster up the strength to struggle anymore. She's completely helpless, pinned to her bed, unable to defend herself.
The Sand-Snake grunts and pushes down harder and harder, causing the pillow to compress further and further. Victoria's hands flail wildly, trying to grab onto anything they can get a hold of.
She kicks and thrashes about, but it's no use. She's simply too weak, too exhausted, too tired. Her vision begins to go dark as she struggles to breathe. Muffled calls for help are met with even greater force.
She gasps and wheezes, "Why--why? Please--" her voice is weak and strained.
Seth growls, "I don't need you anymore, Ms. Archibald." He grits his teeth and exerts even more pressure onto the pillow.
She coughs and sputters, "Please...stop..." her arms finally fall to her sides as she loses consciousness and goes limp.
Seth lifts the pillow, exposing her face. Her mouth is wide open and the look on her face is that of pure shock and horror. He tosses the pillow aside and checks her pulse. Nothing.
"Hmph. Goodnight, Ms. Victoria Archibald. And thanks for the money. I'll help myself to the rest."
He turns around and heads for the door, pausing only to look back at Victoria's unmoving form, "It took a while, but I managed to figure your signature out. The rest should be easy."
Seth now decides to make himself the sole heir of Victoria's remaining assets. He's even "signed over" full power of solicitor to himself and himself alone. All in accordance with "the law", of course.
He opens the door, walks out, and closes it behind him.
Gallagher looks at Seth with a questioning expression, "Well, how did it go?"
Seth jerks his head toward the front door, "Come on inside. You too, Edwin." His voice is flat and emotionless.
Gallagher shrugs, "Sure."
Seth's lips twitch into a faint smirk as Gallagher goes to the dead body and loudly exclaims, "Jesus, take the wheel! Y--You--"
Seth simply says, "Yes, Gallagher. I did."
Edwin stifles a gasp and says nothing. He merely gives his Domitor a look of disbelief and shock.
Seth nods and calmly replies, "What, Edwin? I don't need her anymore."
Edwin forces a nod, "Yes, sir. She was...troubling. I, too, will not miss her."
The High Priest faintly chuckles and beckons for Edwin to come with him to the bedroom. Gallagher is busy gawking at the dead old lady's body.
Seth and Edwin walk over to the bedside cabinet and the former produces a pair of gloves. He pulls them on and begins rummaging through the various items within.
"The jewelry itself is worth 1000s of dirhams, possibly more."
Gallagher snorts, "Wow. I didn't know ya had it in you, man! Fuckin' A-plus! You drained that raghead the other night and--and now this!"
Seth continues rummaging through Victoria's (very expensive) stuff, "Hmm."
Gallagher puts his hands on his hips, "Hey, I think a bit of me is rubbing off on you, huh?"
"Yes."
Edwin sighs looks so conflicted and uncomfortable in this room, in the presence of these 2 Kindred.
The High Priest turns to Edwin, "I want you and Gallagher to dispose of the body. However you got rid of Waleed should work here."
Gallagher shrugs, "Fine with me. Hey, Edwin, how'd you get rid of that bozo?"
Edwin lowers his head and doesn't immediately answer.
Gallagher's face scrunches in anger, "HEY, EDWIN?! Fuckin' answer me! How. Did. You. Get. Rid. Of. Whatever-his-name-was??!"
Edwin's features are tight with anxiety, "I--I buried him in the desert."
Seth shakes his head, "Not good enough for...this one. Use the nearby incinerator this time."
Edwin gulps and plainly nods, "As you wish, sir."
Gallagher commands the Ghoul, "Grab her nasty feet. I ain't touching whatever the fuck that is." He grimaces in disgust at Ms. Archibald's blister-covered feet.
Even Edwin hesitates to touch the feet of the deceased. He looks around for a cloth or a sheet that he can wrap around them.
Seth shakes his head and gets irritated, "Just grab them, Edwin. Don't be so squeamish."
Edwin mumbles to himself, "Sorry." He grabs hold of the corpse's feet and gingerly lifts it off the bed while Gallagher huffs and grabs her under the arms.
A nasty smell permeates the room and hits Edwin's nose. The 2 vampires remain unaffected by it. Seth goes ahead and opens the door for them.
The Ghoul immediately drops the body and covers his nose with his arm. Gallagher throws his arms up in exasperation, "The fuck, man?!"
Edwin's voice is muffled, "Smell...urine." His eyes dart over to the dead old lady and then back to Seth.
Gallagher sighs and shakes his head, "What smell?!" He makes a great effort to take a whiff and immediately recoils in disgust, "Arghh! Ugh! Urghh!" He frantically fans the air in front of him with his hands.
Seth turns his nose up, "Hmph. How unsanitary. She pissed herself. Wow. I thought she'd go off with a bit of...dignity. Guess I was wrong, huh? Just get the body out of here before it stinks up the place any further."
Edwin and Gallagher carry the body out of the villa and to the latter's car. They dump her inside the backseat and close the door.
Gallagher points at the Ghoul, "YOU'RE giving my ride a good cleanup after we're done here, got it?"
Edwin is in no mood to protest or put up a fight, "As you wish."
Gallagher disdainfully looks at his car and curses under his breath, "This better not leave too much of a fuckin' stain. Those seats cost me a fortune."
Gallagher's ride is a slick, shiny, and glossy blue Lamborghini Murciélago. There's a gnarly dent on the side, but he has no plans to fix it anytime soon.
The Viper is quite attached to his wheels, having bought it with his own hard-earned money, "I worked my ass off for this fuckin' baby, Edwin!"
Edwin merely replies, "It's a...nice car."
"Heh, 'course it is!" Gallagher gruffly says as he reverses and drives off into the night.
On the road, Gallagher goes on and on about his car. He even boasts about how he beat up some teenager trying to record a video near his car, "Yeah...hence the dent on the side. Fuckin' little punk deserved it, anyway."
Edwin looks like he's ready to cry or something. The Ghoul is in a real bad spot right now.
Gallagher lets his foot off the pedal for a second, "What's the matter? This shit's getting to you? Grow a fucking spine, tall boy! This is Unlife- it's messy and chaotic and fucked up."
He glances at Edwin, "Take it from a guy who used to be a Pinkerton- shit's all fucked up these nights."
Edwin simply nods and says nothing.
Gallagher proudly talks about the time he beat up a random dude simply for speaking to him in Arabic, "I don't speak or understand camel. So I just decked the shit outta him and called it a night, heh. That's what happens when you mess with the law."
Edwin's eyes widen in shock, "You assaulted him??"
The ex-Sheriff scoffs, "Assaulted, schmassaulted. Fuckin' raghead had it coming."
Edwin mumbles under his breath, "You are a deeply violent man."
Gallagher stops at the red light and snickers, "Pfft. I heard that, chocolate milk. So what if I am? I was...the goddamn Sheriff of Dubai."
Edwin turns his head aside and looks at the empty streets ahead, "I am aware of your history, Mr. Gallagher." It's late, and he's tired. He hasn't been able to get much sleep lately.
Gallagher sneers, "Then you know what I'm capable of."
"I can't help but feel that you...enjoy doing these...things for my Domitor. Unpleasant things. Disposing of corpses, attacking people, etcetera."
"Hmph. Maybe I do. So what, huh?! Maybe it's because a part of me was always meant to do this kinda shit, huh?!"
Edwin sighs, "Perhaps so. So, you still consider yourself a Sheriff? Of what, over where? Dubai is under no one's control and Al-Kushraf has had neither Prince nor Sheriff for as long as anyone around here can remember."
Gallagher doesn't answer at first. The light turns orange and he tightens his grip on the steering wheel, eyes fixed on the dark road ahead.
"The fuck does it matter? All I know is I like being around Seth. He gives me purpose, direction, a--and...he lets me be myself. Ya dig?"
Edwin exhales and looks at the few palm tress that dot the sides of the road, "Yes. I suppose I do. He gave me purpose and direction as well."
Gallagher makes a sharp turn into the desert and the car bumps along the uneven terrain, "Heh, and now ya work for him as a Ghoul, doing all the shit he can't possibly do during the day, heh heh. Sweet deal you got there, buddy."
"How so?"
"You get to be out in the sun, eat food, jack off, whatever the fuck else you wanna do. But you STILL have a sorta leash around your neck and Seth controls everything you do."
Edwin is silent for a while, "I suppose so, yes. I am still me, but I see what you're hinting at."
"You thinking about getting Embraced?"
Edwin shakes his head, "No. I am comfortable where I currently am. As a Ghoul, I believe that Typhon has a purpose for me."
Gallagher presses his foot on the accelerator and muses, "A true believer, huh? Damn. Well, you do you, buddy. You do you. But it's worth it in the end, don't you think?"
Edwin hesitates and struggles to formulate a coherent response. The words keep getting trapped in his throat.
Is it all worth it?
The drive to the incinerator is long and tense. Edwin's mind is swirling with all kinds of thoughts, emotions, and feelings. It's an endless, chaotic, and confusing torrent. And Gallagher's words are only serving to complicate things further. 
As a Ghoul in Seth's service for so long, leaving now would be nothing short of fatal.
Once at the incinerator, the duo toss the body in. It's the middle of the night and there are no people around. The only sound is the rustling of discarded plastic bags and the wind blowing across the desert sands.
Gallagher stands the hell away from the fire while Edwin does the sordid task of making sure that Victoria's body is reduced to nothing but ash and dust. It's an agonizing and arduous process.
Once the 2 return to the compound, Seth orders his Ghoul, "I want you to head to Sufi Street in the morning. There's a few appraisers who owe me some favors. Bring a sample of her jewelry and get an estimate of their worth."
Edwin silently nods and lazily meanders off into the night. He's exhausted. Mentally and physically. He needs to rest, and soon. If his Domitor is willing to let him do so, that is.
Gallagher cracks his neck and rolls his shoulders, "Alright. Fun night. So, how's your chess game coming along? Is it checkmate time yet?"
Seth lightly shakes his head, "No. Not yet. But soon, Ewan. Soon. The board is all set up and the pieces are mostly in place. It's just a matter of executing the proper moves." His voice is soft, calm, and collected.
Gallagher remarks, "Always the modest one, huh? Well, I'll leave the scheming, plotting, planning, and possible backstabbing to ya. That shit was never my forte."
Seth responds, "Busting skulls was always your métier, hmm?"
The ex-Sheriff shrugs, "More or less. At least I got an opportunity to do that shit when I'm with you. Gettin' rid of the Gangrel in Dubai was the best fuckin' thing you've done for us, Seth. Prince Angela was too fucking soft for her own good."
"Hmm. She was a problem that needed removing either way."
"I know, I know. Sun's gonna be up soon. I'm heading back to my place to get all cozy. You staying here or heading back to your main joint?"
Seth dryly says, "I think I'll spend another day here. Goodnight, Ewan."
Gallagher gets in his car and does a 2-finger salute, "'Night, Seth! I hope we can continue working together like this. I kinda enjoy this shit, y'know? Anyway, see ya soon!" He speeds off in his Lambo.
Seth smirks as he watches his friend drive off. His amber eyes appear deader than usual, his skin paler than before, and his expression is more grave. There's an eerie stillness about him. No movement. Nothing.
This coupled with his actions over the past few nights are signs of the High Priest's diminishing Humanity. One can only imagine what his internal state is like. Without Humanity, Kindred are nothing but cold and unfeeling husks (or on the verge of becoming so).
A few hours prior...
John is wide awake, his iPhone vibrating in short bursts. He gets up, rubs his eyes, and lazily grabs the device. It's some text messages from his boss, Master-P.
John's eyes dart to the clock and he grumbles in annoyance as he reads the message: "Hey, Mr. Suarez. Been trying to reach you. Have a potential client for you to train."
John blinks a few times and texts back: "Sure, OK. Who is it?"
Master-P (real name: Praveen) replies: "Some eccentric author from the USA. Refuses to leave his hotel room. Said he was writing a novel and wanted personalized Kenpo training to make the fighting in his book more authentic or whatever."
John exhales: "Interesting. Why'd you suggest me?"
Praveen takes a moment to answer back: "Bcoz u are a bloody nite owl, man. Will text u the addresss. GTG now. In-laws @ home and they are already causing quite an uproar!"
He follows it up with a stream of crying emojis.
After sometime, John's phone vibrates and the hotel's address is shown. It's located in the downtown district of Al-Kushraf.
John groans, "Well, it's better than sitting here and doing nothing. Fuck it, let's go." He's not exactly thrilled about it, but it's a paying gig and he can't afford to pass up on it at this time.
He texts back with a simple thumbs-up emoji.
Praveen responds: "Achchha (Hindi: Good). You're a reliable man, Mr. Suarez."
As John waits for the shower water to get hot, he types: "Thanks, Mr. Praveen."
Once the Assamite has taken his shower, he picks out something casual and loose-fitting for tonight's gig. He puts on his faded olive jacket, grabs his keys and wallet, and leaves his Haven.
As he's heading for the elevator, he shoots Svetlana a quick text message: "Hey, how's things? Need anything 2nite?"
Svetlana is in the middle of feeding from someone when she gets the text message. She doesn't immediately respond.
Once the blood of this unlucky mortal has satisfied her needs, she licks his wound and leaves his still-breathing body lying on the damp ground. The man is in a state of pure bliss right now.
She checks her phone and types: "Is all good, John. U r OK?"
"Yeah, yeah. I got a gig at a hotel downtown. How's ur babysitting stuff going?"
"Da, is all fine. No problems."
"We rly should catch up sometime."
"Da. Maybe after our work is over?"
John steps in the elevator and waits for it to descend. He keeps his head lowered, his eyes focused on the phone: "I'll try. Stay safe out there..."
Svetlana smooths the creases on her blouse and dusts her jeans. She responds: "U 2 :-)"
John softly chuckles and makes his way towards his car. He grabs himself a "warm meal" on the way to the hotel where this eccentric writer guy is staying.
He's feeling a little hungrier than usual, so he stops by the nearest restaurant and looks around until he finds someone who's suitably isolated and alone.
The Assamite approaches a young, clean-cut, and well-dressed businessman from behind. His fangs are already out and he's slightly crouched.
With a swift and fluid motion, John wraps his arm around the guy's neck and quickly feeds on his carotid artery. The poor guy struggles and tries to scream for help, but John has a firm hold of him.
John hungrily takes this man's life force, but makes sure not to kill him in the process. Once the Beast has been satiated, John pulls away, licks the wound shut with the tip of his tongue, and leaves the businessman lying unconscious in the darkened alleyway.
John takes a moment to compose himself. He wipes his mouth clean with the back of his hand and leaves the area. Many minutes later, he reaches the hotel and parks his car.
It's a pretty mid-range hotel in this part of the city. From where John is standing, it's quite a tall and imposing structure that almost looks like it reaches into the heavens.
The steel and glass structure is surrounded by green lawns, palm trees, and neatly paved walkways. John looks around and notices a few guests milling about.
John sighs, "Looks like they have a nice bar here, at least. Heh, not that I ever need it now..."
He checks his phone and sees that the address given is the one here. He's still a bit dazed and confused from the recent feed. Something about that mortal's blood feels...off.
John momentarily loses his grip and stumbles. His legs feel weak and his head is pounding.
He mumbles, "What the fuck?" He tries to move, but his legs feel heavy. He ends up falling onto his knees and clutching his chest.
A man in a thawb approaches John and bends over to ask, "Are you okay, brother?" his voice is heavily accented.
John grunts and manages to get back on his feet, "I'm...I'm fine."
The man is tall, broad-shouldered, and has a thick beard. He gives the Assamite a once-over and goes on his way.
John feels another sharp pain shooting up his spine, causing him to grit his teeth. His vision is getting blurry and the sounds of the outside world are drowned out by the ringing in his ears.
He can hear voices calling out to him, but they sound distant, muffled, and distorted. With an anguished look, he swivels his head left and right and sees no one nearby.
Something about that dude's blood is causing John to suffer a lot of pain.
He takes a deep breath and heads inside the hotel. Once the initial shock wears off, the pain starts to subside. It's still there, but not nearly as intense as before.
He asks the lithe and dolled-up receptionist, "I'm...uh, Room 402, please."
The receptionist speaks with an accent similar to Svetlana's, "Ah, 1 moment, please sir."
John leans against the black marble counter and looks around the lobby area. A massive crystal chandelier hangs from the wide and high ceiling, illuminating the entire room.
There's a few people sitting on the plush couches, drinking wine, and chatting among themselves. A couple is checking in and a few kids are playing with a soccer ball near the elevators.
The bellhops are dressed in a dark-purple uniform, while the rest of the staff are clad in a lighter shade of purple.
The receptionist mumbles something before speaking to John, "Ah, Mr. Stephen Burg changed room a few hours ago...Room 401."
John inquires, "Why?"
The receptionist shrugs, "He said direction room was facing was wrong for his...I forgot what he called it."
John shrugs, "Yeah, I'm here for him." He looks unsure about accepting this gig, but money is money and he needs it.
The receptionist gives him a small smile, "Have a pleasant night, sir."
John smiles back, "You too."
He takes the elevator to the 4th floor and makes his way to Room 401. He notices the "DO NOT DISTURB" sign hanging from the door handle.
"Hmm, guess I'll knock."
No answer.
"Mr. Stephen Burg? Mr. Burg, sir?"
Nothing.
John persistently knocks, "It's uh...I'm the Kenpo instructor from Al-Kushraf #1 Kenpo Dojo. Ma--Master-P sent me to give you--"
Some shuffling and thumping can be heard from within the room. It's followed by a loud groan and a crash.
John immediately steps aside, expecting the worst. The door is yanked open and a messy-looking man in his 50s stands there, gray hair all over the place. His lavender bathrobe is undone, revealing his flabby belly and hairy penis.
John immediately looks away and wildly signals with his hand, "Oh, Jesus! Y--Your stuff's hanging out, man!"
Stephen looks down and his eyes widen in shock. He gasps and quickly does his bathrobe, "S--Sorry about that!"
John exhales sharply and composes himself. This is shaping up to be a very interesting evening. He can't wait to tell Svetlana all about this.
Stephen Burg puts on a pair of glasses and gives John a good look, as if appraising him, "So, you're the Kenpo guy, huh?"
"Y--Yes, sir. My name is John Suarez and--"
Stephen interrupts him, "That's nice. They sent an American. N--Not that I'd have an issue if they didn't, but--why don't you come on in, err...what's your name again?"
The Banu Haqim Neonate stifles a sigh, "John Suarez."
Stephen ushers him inside and nods many times, "Ah, yes, yes. And, where are you from, Mr. Suarez? Or do you prefer John? You're American, right??"
John nods, "John's fine with me. I'm from um...Magnolia City."
Stephen gasps and holds his finger up, "Magnolia City! Lovely place. Magnolias all over."
"Yep, that's why they call it Magnolia City, heh."
The writer nods and invites John to grab a chair. John takes a look around and holds back a grimace. There's wrappers from McDonalds and KFC littered all over what would normally be a pretty clean-looking hotel room.
Stephen gestures at the pile of empty and crushed cans of Monster Energy and Red Bull on the floor, "I...need it to stay awake and to really GET INTO the mind of my protagonist, who is an energy drink addict."
John dryly remarks, "Exciting." He notices a pile of books on Samurais on a wooden chair. He carefully picks them up and places them on the floor. He pulls the chair closer and sits on it.
Stephen nods many times, "Yes, yes. Very exciting. So, you're the Kenpo instructor? From the local dojo? You look...young."
"So?"
"I was...expecting someone older. I know quite a lot about Kenpo. What techniques and methodologies are you going to utilize to instruct me?"
John expertly answers, "Mainly stuff from Ed Parker."
Stephen's expression falters, "Oh, I see. I was hoping for Shorinji Kenpo o--or the Shaolin Temple Fist Method as established by Doshin So in 1947."
John bluntly states, "Well, you get what you pay for."
"Hmph, fine. But my novel does take place in the 1950s, so Ed Parker's methods wouldn't have been fully developed yet, and thus would not have been available to the average Joe. The techniques are a bit too advanced for the time period."
"Does it matter?"
Stephen scoffs, "It does! To me. You see, a critic once panned my book for numerous anachronisms, historical inaccuracies, a--and quote-unquote 'nonsensical expressions'."
John folds his arms and leans back, "Damn. So, you wanna make sure your next book lands better and is more accurate?"
Stephen excitedly nods, "Exactly! I want to write a book that's both engaging and informative. You understand, right, John? I have a reputation to maintain."
"Sure, sure. I can relate."
Stephen's green eyes light up momentarily, "Y--You're also a writer??"
"Was. Not for novels, but for a newspaper. It was a uh...long time ago. Actually, never mind."
"Fascinating. A Kenpo instructor who used to write for a newspaper. I think I have some ideas for my next characters in my upcoming novel, hehe."
"I'm glad to be of assistance," John blandly says.
Stephen queries, "Do you mind me asking which newspaper it is you used to write for? I do love to dig as deep as I possibly can when crafting my characters."
John is visibly uncomfortable with the current turn the conversation has taken, "Actually, I do mind."
Stephen shakes his head, "Hmph, fine. I guess I'll just have to rely on my improvisational prowess."
"You do that, buddy."
Stephen does some elaborate stretches, jogs on the spot for a few seconds, and does 2 jumping jacks before awkwardly taking his stance, "Shall we begin, John??"
John stands up and looks around the room, "In here? Seriously?"
Stephen breaks his stance and comes to a realization, "OH! YES! YES! You're right, it's far too small a--and congested."
John lazily gestures, "We could move some stuff around, maybe call room service to clean up the mess--"
Stephen cuts him off, "NO! NO! You see, my protagonist is a messy man fliting from hotel room to hotel room. Th--this mess is a part of the process!"
John sighs, "OK, whatever. Can we at least move it to the side?"
The writer begrudgingly concedes and John quickly moves the trash, cans, wrappers, and empty bottles aside.
He gets into position and Stephen follows suit. They both have a very loose stance.
John corrects his posture and Stephen copies him, "This isn't how you're supposed to stand, Mr. Burg."
"Apologies."
Stephen claps his hands together and rubs them, "Great! Now, let's get started. Shall we?"
John simply nods and the 2 men clear enough space to begin the lesson. As eager as this guy is, he's equal parts clumsy and hard to work with. After a couple of hours, Stephen has the basics down pat. To his credit, he's a quick study and a dedicated learner.
John gives Stephen a nod of approval, "You're pretty good, Mr. Burg."
Stephen toothily grins and mouths off, "And the trainer, a short dusky man in his indeterminate 30s, approvingly nodded towards Kiichiro and told him what a fast and apt student he was."
John gives him a blank stare, "Seriously?"
Stephen laughs, "I am a writer and the only thing that's on my mind at this moment is what I am working on."
The Assamite folds his arms, "Hmm, and what is your book about?"
Stephen excitedly answers, "It's a sort of noir-erotica hybrid novel set in the 1950s. The protagonist is a samurai-for-hire who gets caught up in a series of murders and conspiracies involving an international spy ring."
"Huh. Cool. Let's take 5 and then we can continue with our lesson."
"Excellent. I'll make us some Sencha green tea and we can both talk about this story."
For obvious reasons, John politely declines.
Mr. Burg shrugs, "Suit yourself, but I need it."
John sits on the edge of the bed and listens to Stephen's story, "My protagonist is a samurai, Kiichiro Takahashi, who has recently been accused of violating the World Bushido Code. He must clear his name and find the real culprit, which will lead him on a path of intrigue, espionage, and danger."
Stephen lowers his voice, "And sex. Lots of it...with rival warriors, dashing chemists, dominatrices--"
John interjects, "Yeah, I get the point. There's a lot going on. So, how does Kenpo figure into all of this?"
Mr. Burg eagerly answers, "Kiichiro, you see, is a mid-level Kenpo practitioner. But, he's not your average Joe. He's skilled and dangerous, yet he has a heart of gold. A man who fights for what's right."
"How noble of him," John can't help but notice how Stephen is trying so hard to sell him on this book.
Stephen goes on, wildly gesticulating as he does so, "Movies and comics are taking over. Of course, I see no issue with it- trends and all. So, I have to...adapt to the shifting tides of the industry. I'm no stranger to that."
"Hmm, fair enough. I don't know anything about that stuff."
Mr. Burg continues, "The contemporary movie and comics market is dominated by superheroes and super-villains, aliens, cyborgs, and most importantly...spies a--and soldiers."
John mutters, "Yeah, the post-9/11 security state, heh."
Stephen sucks some air through his teeth, "Scary stuff, indeed. Anyways, what Kenpo you manage to teach me, Mr. Suarez, will help flesh out and add to my story."
"Cool. We should probably start again, huh?" John glances at his phone and sees a few missed messages from Svetlana. He'll check them later. For now, he needs to focus on teaching this guy Kenpo.
And the night rolls on with John teaching this dude all that he knows. Moves are mimicked as authentically as possible, blocks are demonstrated, and strikes are performed. Stephen takes it all in with great enthusiasm, but with less skill.
After many hours, Stephen has a decent grasp of the basics, but he's sweating buckets through every pore and his breathing is heavy. His face is red and his legs are wobbly.
John, not at all feeling tired, puts his hands on his hips, "I think we did well for tonight." It's a little past 2 AM. His eyebrows shoot up in surprise when he sees the time.
He mumbles, "Whoa. Time...just flew, huh?"
The eccentric author regards John for a few moments, "Err...John? You don't seem to sweat...or maybe I'm just seeing things..." he squints and takes a step closer.
John backs off and evasively answers, "Uh...I'm quite used to this actually." It's a BS reply, and he hopes that Stephen won't pry any further.
Thankfully, Stephen sits down and lets out a long and drawn-out sigh, "Y--You have my thanks, John. I've learned a lot from you and your Kenpo teachings." He sounds so formal.
John nods and replies, "No problem, Mr. Burg. I'm always glad to impart my knowledge of Kenpo to those who are willing and able to learn."
Stephen chuckles and shakes his head, "The swarthy gentleman politely told Kiichiro Takahashi of his willingness to share his vast, arcane, and borderline-esoteric knowledge with the eager warrior."
The Assamite laughs along with him.
Stephen continues, "I'll be sure to mention you in the book if I ever finish it. The main character, Kiichiro, will do a lot of Kenpo stuff. Fighting, mainly."
John puts forth, "Y'know, there's a song about Kenpo, it's--"
Stephen tiredly holds up his hand, sweat continuously dripping down his forehead, "Yes, yes, I know. It's from RedCloud. I listened to it so many times that it now loops in my head at the most inopportune and inappropriate times."
"You really are dedicated to your craft, huh?" John glances at the mess and wonders how the hell Stephen hasn't complained about the smell.
He gestures to the clutter and queries, "And all this...crap doesn't bother you?"
Stephen clicks his tongue, "This 'crap'...it's my process. I'm not as slovenly as what appears in front of you, but Kiichiro Takahashi IS quite a messy fellow."
"And the fast food wrappers?"
"Ah, that's me, alright. If I were you, I'd avoid the alfredo they serve down in the restaurant. It's terrible. And, well, I just love greasy fast food. That's why I have it delivered up to my room."
John raises his eyebrow, "I thought you were staying in here until you finished your book?"
"I was...planning on, but I have a trip in a few hours. Cairo, Egypt. It's for further research into an unfortunate, messy, and far-too-complex plot hole I've foolishly dug myself into."
"Well, I wish you luck with that. Writing's no easy task."
"Indeed, indeed. Very much so. Still, all this...is a part of Kiichiro's journey, if you will."
John presses his lips into a thin smile, "Well, yeah, good luck with the book. I'll grab a copy if it ever hits the shelves around these parts."
Stephen shakes his head, "No need. I'm going to have this published- exclusively- as an eBook! You can read it from the comfort and convenience of your mobile device...err, smartphone or whatever it is the kids use these days."
"eBooks, huh? Isn't that just a fad? I'm sorry, I don't really keep up with this stuff."
Stephen shrugs, "Perhaps, but I strongly believe that the future of publishing is going to be digital. That's why I'm going to get ahead of everyone else and go digital before I go broke, heh heh!"
The Assamite snickers and curtly nods, "Well, I really should get going. I take it you've already spoken to Master-P about payment? Unless you wanna go over something again or...?"
The question hangs in the air for a while. Stephen absentmindedly mutters something to himself and slowly nods.
He then turns to John and says, "Yes, yes! Sorry about that. I was uh...thinking about the book. Please give my thanks to Master-P and tell him that I am more than satisfied with your services."
The writer gets up and heads to his hotel safe. He turns the combination dial to a specific set of numbers, pulls the lever down, and the safe pops open.
Stephen rummages through it and produces 2 crispy $100 bills. He gives it to John and smiles, "And a little extra for your trouble. A...tip, if you will."
John's eyes light up, "Whoa. Y--You--" the words get stuck in his throat. It's been a while since he's held a dollar bill.
The Assamite bows and gratefully accepts the money, "Thank you, Mr. Burg. I--I really appreciate it."
Stephen waves his hand, "It's no issue. Tell your Master-P I'll be wiring the money soon. But keep the tip for yourself, Mr. Suarez. I believe you've earned it. Also, if I may?"
"Sure?"
Stephen takes John's cold hands and looks right into his eyes, "Your hands are so...cold. Maybe change the money into the local currency and buy yourself a heater, hmm?"
John is visibly stunned. He slowly nods and pulls away, "Thanks...for everything, Mr. Burg. I really appreciate it. In truth, I kinda had fun giving you a bit of 'training', heh."
The eccentric author puffs out his chest, "Hmph! Yes, yes, you did. I certainly have a knack for it, yes?"
John hesitates, "I guess so, yeah."
"I'll be sure to look you up on any social media. If I have any Kenpo-related questions, John Suarez will be my first port of call. Haha!"
The Assamite nervously laughs along, "Yeah. So, uh...goodnight, Mr. Burg. I hope you finish your book and I hope it does well."
"I WILL! And, rest assured that I'll make sure to mention you by name in the acknowledgments."
John declines, "Actually, I'd prefer to be left out. Acknowledge the dojo and Master-P if you want. B--But, just leave me outta it." He's gotta think about the Masquerade and all!
To have his full (and real) name on a book (regardless of whether it sells or not) wouldn't be too great, especially on nights such as these.
Stephen frowns, "Oh...why?" His expression quickly changes as he conjectures, "Ah! Of course, you are concerned about your privacy, eh?"
John shakily nods, "Something like that, yeah."
Stephen elaborately bows, "As you wish, Mr. Suarez. As you wish. Goodnight!"
John gets the hint and leaves the mortal to his writing tasks. This was 1 of the most unusual nights of his Unlife. But, a job's a job, and John will take whatever he can get at this point.
He steps in the elevator and waits for it to go down to the lobby. Once back in his car, he pulls out the 2 $100 bills he got and checks them to make sure they aren't counterfeit.
Once he's satisfied, he puts them in his wallet and drives off into the dark night.
Svetlana has left a few text messages, asking about his whereabouts and inquiring if he needed anything. John quickly texts back: "I'm OK. Interesting night 2nite. How was ur night?"
Svetlana texts back: "Still at babysitting. Will not b able 2 c u 2nite, sorry."
"Understandable. Stay safe out there."
"Da. You also, John. Goodnight."
"'Night!!"
Elsewhere in this vast metropolis of gold, glitter, glam, and excess, a chat commences between 2 parties.
ILHC: "Commander Gallant. SITREP?"
OBED: "LVNDR system yielding results that would've taken our best analysts months, if not years, to sift through. Baruch HaShem!"
ILHC: "Your enthusiasm and excitement is noted. What do the results point to so far?"
OBED: "A name was recently flagged by LVNDR: John Suarez."
ILHC: "What makes this one so special?"
OBED: "Inconsistent birth records. This John Suarez should either be dead or in a home for the aged."
ILHC: "Interesting. You believe this is a blank body threat, or is this merely a case of mistaken identity or fraud? Fraud and utilization of stolen IDs are not uncommon in your area of operations."
OBED: "The LVNDR system says there is a high likelihood that this John Suarez is a blank body- 94.56%"
ILHC: "Intriguing. Send whatever you've managed to gather to us. Maybe there is something that our other clandestine assets in nearby regions can assist you with."
OBED: "Affirmative. Will do."
ILHC: "Good work. Remember not only what you fight against, but also what and who you fight for, Commander Gallant. Am Yisrael has many enemies, some more sinister than others."
OBED: "I know. We are surrounded by those who would see us all driven to the sea. It is like our blessed Sages said: 'If someone comes to kill you, rise up and kill him first.'"
ILHC: "Very much so. Preventative action and overwhelming force are key components in our strategy."
OBED: "Affirmative. As I said before, I will send you whatever information I can. And, thank you again for providing us with the LVNDR system. It's been very useful thus far, despite its power requirements."
ILHC: "For the sake of our own data-gathering, how did the LVNDR system flag this John Suarez?"
OBED: "A recent Google search was performed on the computer of a foreign national- an American author- we've been closely monitoring due to his associations with certain unsavory elements hostile to the State of Israel."
ILHC: "Indulge us. Would your best analyst have been able to draw that connection in record-time?"
OBED: "I do not mean to speak ill of the brave men and women assigned under my command, but it would take them a good amount of time to compile this information and draw the appropriate conclusions."
ILHC: "We are now certain that you appreciate the power of the LVNDR system at your disposal, Commander Gallant. Is there anything else?"
OBED: "More troubling reports continue to pour in regarding the CEDP, but I am discarding them as per your orders. Also, my people are eager for a fight. B'ezrat HaShem, they will get one soon."
ILHC: "B'ezrat HaShem. Do not hesitate to utilize maximum force when dealing with these blank bodies. The Israeli High Command also authorizes full use of the Hannibal Directive, should the need arise."
OBED: "I pray it never comes to that. Unit 8211 is special and our talent here is nothing short of extraordinary. But, the Hannibal Directive is a heavy burden to bear."
ILHC: "As do we all. In any case, it's simply a precautionary measure, Commander Gallant. A worst-case scenario type of situation. We cannot allow anyone, or anything, to fall into the hands of the blank body threat."
OBED: "Understood. I will have my Lieutenants compile the information, go over it a few times, and send it over to you. And, once again, thank you for this advanced technology. It's nothing short of remarkable."
ILHC: "Our pleasure. We wish you good luck and may HaShem be with you, Commander Gallant. Also, how do your Lieutenants fare?"
OBED: "They are looking forward to a fight. Even I am quite excited about the thrill of engaging with a few blank bodies myself."
ILHC: "As we all do. Do you require the dispatch of additional resources to the UAE?"
OBED: "No, I think we are operating well within our very generous budget. Speaking of, any word on additional funding?"
ILHC: "The Israeli High Command is doing what it can to procure more funds from the Israeli Ministry Of Defense. However, our partners in the Coalition remain ambivalent about our methods."
OBED: "Politics, bureaucracy, unnecessary laws, pointless rules, and red tape. These are the real enemies of Am Yisrael during times such as these."
ILHC: "No disagreements there. But, these are the unfortunate realities of the world we live in. It's best that you do not concern yourself with such matters and focus on the task at hand."
OBED: "I am a soldier, not a politician. It feels like the whole world is against us."
ILHC: "Then let them be against us, Commander Gallant. We have God and firepower on our side. And as Napoleon once said: 'God is on the side with the best artillery.'"
OBED: "Amen! With the help of God and our few trustworthy allies, we will annihilate the blank body threat in this savage and violent region."
ILHC: "Yes. Goodbye, Commander Gallant. Please do extend the greetings of everyone at the ILHC to your Lieutenants and Unit as a whole. Their families miss them greatly."
OBED: "They know. And, they miss their families too. They just want to serve their country and see their families safe from all harm and danger. Thank you once again for the LVNDR system. It's an invaluable tool in our righteous arsenal."
ILHC: "Don't break it. Goodbye."
The chat messages begin to delete themselves. Line after line disappears from the screen until nothing remains. The terminal goes dark and shuts down.
They're closing in...
John (and Svetlana, too) are going to find themselves in a whole lot more trouble than they could've possibly imagined.
Chapter 11: First Encounter
In time, the sun begins its grandiose ascent over the desert horizon. The sky turns a brilliant shade of orange as the moon gives way to the rays of light. The desert sands turn gold, and the buildings shine like polished diamonds.
John is already in his Haven and is fast asleep. Svetlana JUST got back as the sun starts peeking out over the dunes. She quickly makes her way towards her Haven and immediately gets ready for bed.
She's immediately taken in by the slumber of the day, as are all the Kindred in this particular part of the world.
Seth day-sleeps calmly in his 2nd Haven. Despite all he's done (and is about to do), his day-sleep is dreamless, peaceful, and rejuvenating. His mind is focused only on his immediate and future goals.
Gallagher also manages to catch some zees in his own Haven. He's lazily sprawled out on his double bed, totally naked.
And so, another day rolls by with the immortal residents of this gilded city slumbering through the day. Another night of darkness will come (soon enough) for all of them.
After an entire day has passed, the Kindred begin to awaken. The sun unceremoniously sets, giving way to the moon and the stars.
The bustling sounds of the city slowly creep back in. Cars speed down the freeway, honking their horns, and motorcycles tear down the streets as people go about their nocturnal business.
They're about to be joined by nocturnal (and bloody) creatures who have "business" of their own to go about.
Svetlana is the 1st to wake up. She yawns, stretches her arms, and checks the time. She's just glad that she managed to get back to her Haven before the sun came up.
She gets out of bed, takes a shower, and gets dressed for the night. As she's picking a jacket to go with her plain white t-shirt, her phone vibrates and she checks it.
It's a text message from Saoirse, which reads: "Their offers should not charm us, Their evil gifts would harm us."
She follows it up with a snake emoji.
Svetlana's face scrunches in confusion: "??"
The Tremere texts back: "LOL. Sorry if it sounded cryptic. You can come over to me place if ur free and i will be glad 2 explain it :-)"
Svetlana replies: "I am no sure. I am still very busy with babysitting work."
The Usurper responds: "Aye, understandable. It's from a line from a poem called 'Goblin Market'. As I was reading it, I felt it was quite pertinent to the current situation. And I felt compelled to share it with u."
The Assamite texts back: "Oh. Is this some kind of secrit code or...?"
Saoirse answers: "No, no. Just something I think would be beneficial for u to heed. DW too much abt it, macushla. How's the other thing, you know?"
Svetlana sighs and has an uneasy look on her face: "Is fine. Not much trouble. Just little noises here and there, but nothing big."
Saoirse answers: "I see. Well, be careful. You are always welcome @ my place. You know that, right? If u need anything, feel free 2 ask. I'll do me best to help u out as best I can."
Svetlana smiles: "Spasibo. It means a lot to me that u are looking out 4 me like this."
"Yeah. I have 2 go now. Work's starting soon. Bye!"
"Da. Bye!"
Svetlana puts her phone aside and gets back to picking a jacket for tonight's activities. She picks out a simple dark-red jacket and slips into her jeans and boots.
Once she's done getting dressed, she grabs her phone, a beige purse, and keys and heads out into the night. On the way, she hears a small child giggling and calling out, "Setlana! Setlana! Come see! Come see!"
Svetlana sighs and shuts her eyes for a moment. The tears of blood begin to fall as she shakes her head.
She hurries along and tries to ignore this ghostly voice of the long-dead child. In the distance, she can hear a woman weeping and muttering something incomprehensible.
A power cut hits the building that the Assamite is staying at, and the lights go out. Svetlana uses her cell phone's flashlight and looks around. The voice and laughter stops for now, but Svetlana has an unsettled feeling.
Someone mumbles, "Bloody hell! NOT AGAIN! Grrrr!"
After a hot minute, a low and loud whir signals the return of the leccy to the building. The lights and other appliances power up with the help of the apartment's backup generator.
Some of Svetlana's neighbors breathe a sigh of relief, turn off their flashlights (phone or otherwise), and head back in after exchanging a few words.
"I'm bloody tired of all these blackouts!" one of them says.
"This isn't a 3rd world country!" the other one grumbles. The other residents simply mumble their approval.
Svetlana turns off her flashlight, sighs in relief, and walks towards the elevator. She presses the button, steps in, and waits as it slowly descends to the lobby area.
Once it dings open, the Assamite steps out and gathers her composure. She has a few babysitting jobs to take care of and she can't let anything distract her from the tasks at hand. As she makes her way out the lobby and towards the bus stop, her phone buzzes again.
It's a client and his message is: "Ms. Bobrov? Right? Slight change of plans. I need you here by 9:30 PM instead of 10:30 PM."
Svetlana stops in her tracks and types on the virtual keyboard of her iPhone: "Is no problem, sir."
"Thank you."
Svetlana puts her phone away and waits for the bus. There's a middle-aged woman sitting nearby and minding her own business, hands folded on her lap. The woman is clad in a simple burgundy abaya and her face is covered by her matching veil.
By way of courtesy, Svetlana greets the woman, "As-salamu alaykum (AR: Peace be upon you)."
She greets back, "Wa alaykumu s-salam (AR: And upon you be peace)."
The Assamite looks around, tensely, feeling her insatiable Hunger rise up within her. The woman continues looking straight ahead and doesn't acknowledge her further.
She looks like an older lady and has a certain sense of serenity and peace about her. A few moments pass and Svetlana's inner Beast roars for a meal.
The bus stop is far too lit and exposed to feed, so Svetlana excuses herself and tries to locate a warm neck to bite into.
Easier said than done, of course. There's a group of tourists lolling about a short distance away from the bus stop. Svetlana thinks it might be best if she gets her "meal" from someone that isn't staying in the immediate area of where she's babysitting tonight.
And she sure as hell ain't biting into no kids' necks. It's called babysitting, not babybiting!
The group argue loudly in a language that Svetlana can't seem to understand. They're speaking fast and frantically gesticulating at the same time. Whatever it is that they're fighting about, Svetlana can see that it's causing a lot of stress, tension, and anger amongst the group.
They all go, each their own separate ways. Svetlana sees an older-looking man with a DSLR camera and a short beard. She tails him at a good distance. He walks down an alley, humming to himself.
Svetlana is close behind him. This should be a perfect spot. He stops to take pictures and Svetlana swoops in.
She yanks him to a musty corner, subdues him, and sinks her pointy fangs into his neck. Her victim groans in agony as the Assamite takes what she needs...and ONLY what she needs. Nae a drop more.
When the immortal bloodsucker has had her fill, she licks the wound shut as any civilized leech ought to do and drops the flabby dude to the ground. From there, she makes a hasty exit from the scene.
She stops in her tracks and pensively looks at the guy. His breathing is labored, he'll make it, but Svetlana feels a strong pang of guilt. She mutters a few words of sorry to whoever this guy is and goes on her way.
Now that Svetlana is all set, she continues to head off towards her destination for tonight's babysitting job. Her 1st gig is in an apartment not too dissimilar to her own living space.
On the bus, she makes sure to sit all the way at the back. It's a fairly short journey, so there's that.
An American couple greet the Assamite and welcome her into their rather cramped-up apartment. 2 young boys (ages 7 and 11) come running in, 1 with a Nerf gun in his hands and the other with a pair of goggles and a wooden sword.
They're the "babies" that she'll be looking after tonight. Well, whatever ends up with dirhams in her cold and dead hands is just peachy with her! No complaints!
She tells the couple, "I have other duty at 9:30 PM tonight, so I will need to leave a little earlier."
The man sighs, while the woman remains composed. She says, "Then, we'll have to pay you only half."
Svetlana concedes with a bland shrug, "Da. Is no issue."
The man tells his wife, "C'mon, c'mon, let's go. We're gonna be late." He walks off to go and press the button for the elevator. The wife apologetically sighs and follows suit. They'll be back before 9:30 PM.
Until then, it's Svetlana's time to watch them lil kids!
The woman yells, "Mommy and Daddy are leaving now. Don't shoot the nice lady, OK?"
The kids scream out in unison, "OK, Mommy!!!"
Svetlana smiles at these 2 kids. They're fair-skinned, somewhat thin, with dark hair and darker eyes. 1 of the boys is taller and the other. She has an inkling of a suspicion that the boys might be twins, but she can't tell for certain.
Since she's been around so many kids, she can already tell that the younger-looking kiddo is the rambunctious one and the older-looking boy is the mischievous (but not necessarily) malicious one.
She courteously extends her cold hand, "Hello, I am Svetlana Bobrov. You are...?"
The older boy answers, "Bobby...and this is Dylan. Our parents named us after the famous singer dude, Bob Dylan! Or was it Dylan Bob? Ehh...whatever."
Svetlana nods, "Interesting. You go and play, but do not make too much noise. I will give your dinner at 8:15 PM, OK?"
Dylan pipes up, jumping up and down, "Nuggets! I want my chicken nuggies!!!"
Svetlana smiles and nods, "Da. I will make for you. Go and play, but be careful, yes?"
Bobby nods his head, "Yes. C--Can we watch a movie after a while?"
"Which movie?"
Bobby bites his lower lip and shifts his weight from foot to foot, "Hmm, I dunno. There's that movie about the lizard dude who saves the world from the aliens...u--uhhh, you know which one I'm talking about, right? Right?"
Svetlana nods her head and shrugs, "No. I do not know that one, sorry. We will watch whatever is on TV that is good for your age. Also, if you want, I have music on my iPhone--"
Bobby's mouth hangs up, "Whoa! You have an iPhone! M--my dad doesn't even have that and he used to work for Apple before he got the sack."
Dylan runs over to Svetlana and rummages through her purse, "SHOW ME! SHOW ME! iPhone!!! Where is it???"
She playfully pulls back, "Not now, yes? Go and play. Do not touch my things, please. Manners, OK?"
The older boy tugs on his little brother's shirt, "C'mon, bro, we can play with our Transformers if you want. I'll even let you try to transform Optimus Prime!"
Dylan screams out, "YAAAAY!" He excitedly hobbles over to his big bro. The younger one goes off, "C'mon! I'm a little dino boy! Rawwwr! Let's play with our dinosaur toys! Wooooo!!!"
The older kid playfully shakes his head, "Hmm, yes. Dino boy..."
The apartment is definitely on the smaller side for a family of 4. The tiled floors look a tad bit worn, and the walls have seen better days. Despite all that, it's still fairly clean. One can definitely tell that the mother of these boys takes pride in keeping things in order.
Svetlana goes on her iPhone and scrolls through the news headlines. When she sees what's happening in Ukraine, a look of distress and sorrow takes over her. She closes out of the app and scrolls through something else.
Her heart sinks a little when she sees the various pictures of the chaos and uncertainty unfolding in the place that she grew up in. Back then, it was the Ukraine SSR, but now, it's just Ukraine teetering on the brink of an all-out war with its neighbor, Russia.
The people who were once one (and had been through so much together) are now at each other's throats. Svetlana's grandparents would be weeping from the rooftops if they saw what was happening.
The Assamite clicks her tongue and mumbles a few words of Ukrainian to nobody in particular.
Time rolls on. Seconds become minutes, which turn into hours. Svetlana makes the kids their dinner which consists of fried chicken nuggets, potato wedges, and a few pre-sliced apples.
This is probably all the parents can afford at this time. Al-Kushraf, after all, is a fucking expensive place to live in. Much like neighboring Dubai, the glitz and the glam is just a cover for many contradictions.
In fact, Al-Kushraf isn't too dissimilar to its neighbors, though its penchant for the outrageous, bizarre, and over-the-top is a clear cut-and-dry sign of how wealthy (and viciously unequal) it actually is.
When the clock on the wall strikes 9:18 PM, the bell to the door rings. It's the parents! They come in looking fairly disheveled. Their faces are red, and the father seems to be on the verge of crying.
Svetlana looks on in surprise as she tells the boys to eat their food, "What is wrong?"
The woman says, "N--Nothing, nothing. Nothing to concern yourself with, really. How are the boys? Are they eating? Did they give you any trouble?"
Svetlana calmly answers, "They are fine. They were very nice and played in their room for most of time."
The man chimes in, stammering, "Th--That's good to hear." He reaches into his back pocket, pulls out his wallet, and with shaking hands, he counts out the agreed-upon amount of dirhams.
He nervously smiles at the Assamite and hands her the cash, "Thank you so much. This means a lot to us."
Svetlana slightly bows her head, "Is no issue." She takes the money and holds back a look of surprise as she puts it in her purse.
These people sure as hell are on a tight budget.
She wonders why a man who used to work at freaking Apple would be struggling to get by in a place like Al-Kushraf. Anyways, she knows better than to overstep her boundaries.
She says goodbye to the lil kids and heads off to her next destination. This is pretty much her Unlife now- it's the same thing every night. Get up, babysit for a few hours, do the odd job here and there, go back to her Haven, sleep through the day, repeat the entire cycle all over again.
The Assamite doesn't possess a college degree. She only came to this country after her grandparents passed away. Ever since then, she's been on her own, alone and drifting about, trying to get away from her past traumas.
She never knew that she'd become this- an Unliving leech feeding on mortals. Well, the bright side (if one could call it that) is that she's essentially frozen at the age of 28-years-old.
With all her insides ceasing to function, the aging process stops for her, as do many other biological processes. She'll stay this way for as long as she is a Childe of Haqim. Occasionally, she wonders if all of that is a curse or a blessing in disguise.
Regardless, she gets on the bus and hopes it reaches her next destination before 9:30 PM. The sudden change in timings from this particular client was quite surprising to her, no doubt.
But, in this line of work, adaptability is a must, so she does what she's gotta do. The bus pulls over and she hops off. It's about 9:29 PM now, so she briskly walks towards the house near the end of the well-lit and empty street.
The cold breeze blows her blonde hair, and a feeling of uncertainty grips her as she rings the doorbell.
She can hear a muffled "Come in!" from the other end of the door. Svetlana complies.
A British man in his 30s with very dark skin, thick lips, curly hair, and neat eyebrows is sitting on the sofa. 1 leg is folded over the other. He's dressed in very formal attire. His beard is neatly trimmed.
He politely gestures towards a small coffee table, "Ah, you've come. Good, good. Sit down, Svetlana. Please, take a seat. Can I offer you anything? Coffee, tea? Some water perhaps?"
The Assamite shakes her head, "Is no problem. I...hope I am not too late."
The man looks at his silver watch and shakes his head, "Just in time. I am truly sorry for the sudden change in plans. I have to drive all the way to Dubai for a 30-minute presentation, then I have to spend the next 20 minutes--"
He catches himself, "Bah! Never mind. There's some ice cream in the freezer. Feel free to...err...help yourself to it if you wish. But, don't give any to my son. Lactose intolerance, as I'm sure you're aware."
Svetlana respectfully nods, "Da. Is there anything else?"
The man looks very agitated, "N--No. I really should be heading out now. And uh..."
"Yes?" Svetlana cocks her head to the side, green eyes searching him.
The man quickly stands up and grabs his blue coat, "My partner is out and about doing the night shift, w--with overtime so the kid's all yours tonight, luv."
He stops at the front door and turns to face Svetlana, "If you need anything, you have my number, yeah?"
"Da."
The man looks a wee bit embarrassed as he admits, "I won't be able to pay you what we agreed on. It's just that I--we can't really afford to do so at the moment."
Svetlana looks miffed, but she still tries to remain professional and composed, "Is no problem, but you have to pay me something, no?"
The man lowers his head, "Hm, deal. You have my number and I have yours. Goodbye!" And just like that, the British guy leaves in a hurry.
He stops and turns around, "You know, if you were with an agency, you might have a better chance. Err--" he stops mid-sentence and awkwardly shuffles off to his green sedan parked just a few steps from the front door.
The man starts up the car and drives away. He honks a couple times.
The Assamite looks back at the door and wistfully sighs, "Hmph, less money. Maybe I need to register with agency?"
As she's mulling over what to do, a small and chubby boy pokes his head from out a room. He has a brown afro, very dark skin, and bright, curious eyes. He grins at the vampire, revealing the gap between his front teeth.
His little hands are occupied with some sort of video game device. He asks, "Babysitter?"
Svetlana nods and gestures for him to come closer. Like a penguin, he waddles towards her. The Assamite greets the boy with a warm smile and a warm greeting, "Hello. I am Svetlana Bobrov, babysitter. You are...?"
The little boy grins wider, "Boris. Me da is Nigel."
Svetlana remarks, "Is very beautiful name, Boris. What are you playing, malen'kiy (RU: little one)?"
Boris shows her his chunky PlayStation Portable device, "Football! See?" He excitedly presses a few buttons and the PSP starts to emit sounds.
He sticks out his tongue slightly and intently focuses on his game. Svetlana watches on with mild interest and asks him questions, but she doesn't get a response.
So, she walks into the living room, flips the channels, and leaves it on the Discovery Channel. The narrator is currently discussing the different kinds of bacteria on the surface of the earth and how they aid in the processes of decomposition.
Accepting another job for less pay seems to be a regular occurrence for her on nights such as these, maybe signing up for an agency is something she seriously ought to look into.
Because, vampires got rent to pay, bills to take care of, and stuff like that. This city ain't cheap! On the other hand, Kindred don't have much in the way of expenses for food, so that might balance things out.
Sort of.
In any case, little Boris is content, so that's something to go off on. Svetlana walks into the kitchen, pulls open the fridge, and sees what these mortals have to eat. There are leftovers, along with a few cans of Dr. Pepper, and some frozen vegetables and meat.
Boris remains glued to his PSP, legs dangling in the air as he's sitting down in his comfy seat.
The narrator on the TV discusses the life cycle of a blue whale as it floats in the murky waters of the ocean.
Boris stops his game and looks up at his sitter, "Come see! Come see! Me dad is always too busy to see what I am playing."
Svetlana gladly obliges and cuddles up with the child. He leans back into her cold body and goes, "You are so very cwold. Like ice cube, ha ha ha!"
Svetlana just smiles. He looks at the TV, "M--My favorite thing in world is to play on me PSP."
He turns to look at Svetlana and asks her, "You have a PSP?"
"Nyet. But I have iPhone."
The kid lets out something between a scoff and a huff. He looks a little annoyed and says, "Hmmm...come see what I can do!"
Boris has the most adorable smile as he starts playing again. His stubby little fingers expertly press the buttons on the portable gaming system as he goes about the game.
Svetlana's eyes dart between whatever's on the telly and whatever attempts at scoring virtual goals young Boris makes. The boy says, "See? See? Me da is sooo busy he never play with me no more."
Svetlana suggests, "Maybe he is very busy with work, no?"
"Hmmmph. Work. Always work. I don't ever want to grow up and become an adult- always work, work, work. No fun or play."
Svetlana chuckles at his childish and innocent antics. He adds, "I think you are a very good babysitter."
She looks surprised at that, "Really? How come?"
"Hmmm...you are very cwold and you like the football, and you have nice eyes and pretty hair."
The Assamite pats his head, "And you also have nice eyes and nice hair, malen'kiy."
The kid inquisitively asks, "What does that mean?"
"It is Russian for little one."
"Can you teach me? Me da says I should learn another language so I can have better emp-loy-ability in the future."
Svetlana is unsure. Babysitting is already enough work as it is. Teaching the kids you sit a whole language from scratch is not in the proverbial job description and adds too much extra work on her part.
Extra work for diminishing pay is simply NOT something the Banu Haqim Neonate needs right now.
So, she gently lets the child down, "I cannot do it, but maybe you can ask your father to sign you up for lessons?"
He shrugs, "I will ask me da to do that when he comes back." He then proceeds to show the Assamite his game and the various moves and combos he's learned.
He punches the square, circle, x, and triangle buttons in rapid succession. He taps on the silver L and R buttons a few times as well. Boris sticks his tongue out in concentration, then he whoops out, "YES! Goal!!!" he playfully punches the air in celebration.
The TV suddenly turns off with a loud crackle and the lights start flickering. Boris's face is lit up by the PSP and he looks scared. He snuggles closer to his babysitter and whimpers, "I'm scared."
Svetlana gives him a reassuring hug, "Is OK. Do not be scared. It is just...power cut. Is nothing bad."
After a minute, the power kicks back on and the TV turns itself back on. Svetlana sighs in relief.
She's got other things on her mind- like the fact that this is only her 2nd gig of the night and she's already lost some money on this one (and the last).
Usually, she trudges through Facebook and relies on word-of-mouth in order to get new jobs. And, most of the time, that works out well enough for her. But, occasionally, the jobs are few and far between and she has to do agree to take a lower pay in order to make ends meet.
She also can't stay with the lil 'uns overnight, for obvious reasons. And as such, the remainder of the night trundles on.
Boris is a good kid, he remains glued to his PSP till the battery goes low. His little legs stop swinging about in the air and he starts yawning. He lets the device slide to the floor, "I'm tired. I'm going to bed now." He stifles another yawn with his hand.
She puts him to bed and makes sure the red blanket covers him. She tucks him in and looks at him, "Goodnight, malen'kiy. Sweet dreams." She gives him a kiss on the forehead and switches the lights off.
Boris calls out, "WAIT!"
"What is it?"
"Can you leave the little light on? Please?"
"Why?"
Boris shakily says, "Monsters. M--Me da once said he saw one in the house."
It's likely. Maybe some nearby Kindred treat this house and its inhabitants as a midnight snack. Svetlana assures, "There are no monsters in here. If there are any, I will scare them away, OK?"
Boris is doubtful, "No, please...put on the light. Please? Me da always keeps it on."
Svetlana plainly smiles and does as she's asked. Better to have a higher electricity bill than a kid deprived of sleep, heh.
After that, she goes back to the living room and waits and waits.
And waits.
Elsewhere...
Svetlana's Sire, John, is riding in his dinky, perfectly serviceable car. He stopped by a foreign exchange place and changed out his $200 for the equivalent amount of dirhams.
The dollar is doing fairly well against the dirham tonight, so that's good for him. For some reason, he felt compelled to take his katana along with him, but he keeps it in the trunk.
As he pulls over on the side of the road, he sighs. His eyes dart around as he double-checks his surroundings. He notices a bulky SUV with bright headlights that has been tailing him ever since he left the foreign exchange place.
"Hmmm. Strange," John shrugs it off as someone who is going to the same place as he is and pulls out his earphones from the glove compartment.
He shoves 1 in and, as usual, bops his head to some Kristin Mainhart, his favorite. Portions of the lyrics really resonate with him as of late. He sings along, and looks at the rearview mirror once again.
It's a mostly empty stretch of road. The occasional honeywagon (or poop truck) passes by. Yep, Al-Kushraf has the same problem as Dubai- no basic or sensible city infrastructure to speak of.
It just looks good, but its function is another story (a horror story, to be more exact).
In any case, John is still on high alert, despite his relaxed demeanor. It's hard to tell if he's being followed, or just being needlessly jumpy. In any case, he keeps his wits about him and drives through the empty streets of Al-Kushraf with the songs of his favorite singer blaring in his ear.
After changing the dollars, John does some mental math in in his mind. After fleeing from Dubai, he was desperate for a Haven, so he agreed to pay the predatory landlord a lot more for his current space.
On the flip side, there was no rental agreement to sign and no records to trace back. It was a fair trade in his mind, despite the outrageous cost of the place.
The young Kindred checks the time on the dashboard and accelerates his vehicle until he comes at a traffic light. That high-headlight SUV is still on his ass.
"Hmph, high beams. Assholes."
From the rearview mirror, the Assamite sees the tinted windows. However, something within him, something primal senses a strange and very unnatural presence. The SUV starts up as soon as the light turns orange.
John thinks nothing of it, and continues to drive. He hums along to the song, a light smile on his face.
He slows down when he approaches a not-so-well-lit part of the city. The road is cracked, the sidewalks are riddled with litter, and there are some buildings that look like they're on the verge of collapse.
Most of these buildings have their windows boarded up. Some are in various stages of being demolished. Abandoned supercars and once-exotic motorbikes litter this area, too.
The SUV keeps following the lone vampire. It's not speeding up or slowing down. Its headlights remain as bright as ever. John turns a corner, then another, then another.
"Jesus, what is it with these people?!"
As he comes upon a narrow stretch, the SUV pulls over as well and comes to a stop just a few feet away. John turns around and stares at the vehicle. He feels something is wrong here. He can't quite put his finger on it, but this all feels off.
Inside the SUV, the 4 Israeli Second Inquisition operatives ready themselves. The man in the front orders, "Remember, stake the chest. This should incapacitate the blank body. Lieutenant Klein wants him for interrogation."
A woman in the back firmly nods and pulls out a thin and long wooden stake, "Understood, sir."
The man in charge adds, "We have orders to take this one in 'alive' or as 'alive' as these things are, heh."
Another man chimes in, "We should have brought some kerosene or flamethrowers. We have no idea how powerful this thing really is! But, I am willing to test that hypothesis." He cracks his knuckles.
Another woman grumbles, "And we have no idea if this thing can turn into a bat and fly away!"
The driver scoffs, "Fairytales."
The other 3 thugs ready their SMGs, check their clips, and give each other silent nods. They're good to go. The operative in the passenger seat asks, "Ready?"
They all nod and respond in unison, "Yes, sir!"
The driver rams his SUV into the back of John's car. The other 3 immediately disembark, guns at the ready. 1 operator makes tactical hand gestures, telling the 2 others to approach slowly while he provides cover.
John exits his vehicle and is immediately met with gunfire from the 4 thugs. He expertly dodges the bullets as they come his way and takes cover behind his car.
"Shit, shit, shit!"
The woman with the stake comes from the side and tries to attack the Kindred Neonate. John parries with his arms and shoves her down. Since the SUV has smashed his trunk, he can't get to his trusty katana.
Well, he'll just have to give these fuckers a Kenpo lesson that they won't forget. Ever.
The woman tries to strike him again, but John counters her attacks. His hands and arms are strong and deadly weapons in their own right.
He catches her with a right hook, then a left, then a right, and finally finishes her off with a kick to the jaw. The other 2 operators continue to pelt the Assamite with gunfire.
He ducks down, rolls over, and grabs a nearby brick. He then hurls it at the guy to his left. It hits him right in the face and he goes down, screaming in agony.
The woman with the stake relentlessly rushes towards him. He readies his fangs and meets her head-on. She lunges at him with her stake, but he catches her arm and snaps it like a twig.
She yelps in pain and John bites into her neck and tears her jugular out. Blood spurts out of her neck, she's choking on her own blood, and the Kindred throws her corpse to the ground.
The other 2 keep shooting at the Assamite. The guy in the car jumps out, frantically readies his SMG, and unloads at the creature before him. He's firing wildly and missing every time.
Utilizing his Celerity Discipline, John quickly shortens the distance between him and his enemies. As soon as the goon stops firing, the Assamite yanks the weapon away from his grip.
John tosses it aside, grabs him by the neck, and viciously slices his throat open with his sharp claws. He discards the corpse and focuses on the other 2 thugs.
She yells out, "FUCK!" and tries to flee.
The other guy makes it a few feet before John whooshes across, tackles him, and pins him to the ground. He wastes no time, and snaps this fucker's neck.
As he's picking up the fallen gun, he hears a faint groan and a whimper. His ears perk up, his nostrils flare, and his eyes narrow. It's the woman he bit earlier.
Gurgling and choking on her own blood, her arms flail wildly, and she desperately tries to call for help. The Assamite kneels down, puts his fingers around her neck, and gives her a feral look.
"H--Heeelp..."
With a certain bestial rage in his eyes, John glowers at her, "No." He speeds up her inevitable demise by quickly swiping his claw across her face. He stands up, brushes himself off, and wipes his face with his sleeve.
He looks at his now-bloodstained hands and feels an overwhelming sense of rage, a desire to keep going. He feels thunder at his feet. The world him appears to slow down for a moment.
He sees the last SI operative getting in the SUV. She reverses and starts driving off. John's mind is filled with violent and savage thoughts. He snarls and rushes at the SUV as it's leaving.
In a split second, he manages to catch up with it and cling to the back, then he pulls himself up. With claws and fangs fully out, he rips the driver's window open, pulls her out, and tears her head off all in a matter of seconds.
It all happens so fast, that it might look like a blur to any mortal onlooker. The vehicle crashes into a lamp post. John climbs off and runs back to the scene of the carnage. He's shaking and trembling with primal rage.
His eyes are bloodshot, his fangs are fully out, and he can't help but snarl like a rabid dog. He feels something within him, something terrible and violent that has been there for quite some time.
This is what it feels like to be a true Kindred, to give in to the Beast, and let it have a go at those who would mean to destroy the bodies (and minds) of its host.
Once the bloodlust wears off, John gathers his composure, gets in his smashed-up car and immediately drives to the 1 place to warn the 1 person he hopes will understand.
Seth is at Elysium, idly sitting on a chair and looking at the city below. From the 140th floor, the view is quite something, no? Maybe. He's got his trademark snake cane on his lap.
As he's deep in contemplation, John busts through the door. He looks quite messy, to say the least. Blood is splattered all over his face and clothes. His fangs are still out and he has a wild, crazed look about him.
The Setite looks back in surprise, "What the--?"
John gulps deeply, "The SI, Seth. They found me!"
Joyce and Tristan are right behind the Assamite, and they both have a dissatisfied look on their faces.
Seth shakes his head and puts his hand to his mouth, "Oh, dear. Oh, dear. This is bad, very bad."
Tristan growls, "I told you so!"
Joyce dryly asks, "Did anyone else see you? At least answer our questions before you come barging in here like a maniac!"
John replies, "I...killed 'em all. 4 of them. I didn't really have much of a choice." He gives them the whole rundown.
Seth sighs, "You...you could have let them live. For interrogation purposes."
As much as Seth looks distressed, in his mind, he's thinking, "Perfect. The pieces are falling into place, heh. Good, this is very good."
John proceeds to ask Seth about what should be done next.
The High Priest gets up from his seat, grabs his snake head cane, and pensively looks outside the window. He turns around and calmly says, "Well, I guess we have to..."
Joyce scoffs, "Do what?"
Tristan grunts, "Well? What are we gonna do now?!"
Seth pauses for dramatic effect, "...get ready to fight them. What other choice do we have? They know what John looks like. Hell, they probably know where he lives, too."
He pauses once more and looks outside, fighting back the sly smirk that begins to form on his face. He says, "We're going to have to take the fight to them."
Joyce asks, "Wh--What?"
Tristan angrily adds, "The Ministry won't agree to this, Seth!"
Seth turns around and looks at the Banu Haqim Neonate, focusing all his intensity on John, "YOU'RE going to have to take the fight to them, John. You...and the Blade of Haqim in this city."
John doesn't know how to respond. He stammers, "There's--there's not many of us, man, what the fuck?! I was lucky tonight!"
Seth gives John a "sincere" reassuring, "Don't worry, Mr. Suarez. The Ministry stands ready to back you and your fellow Assamites in this...dare I say, righteous crusade."
The High Priest continues, "And if need be, I can convince the rest of the Ministry to help you in this fight against the SI."
John doesn't know what to say. His mouth hangs open.
Joyce objects, "Seth! There's no way the others will agree to this! We all want the SI gone, but--"
Seth holds his finger up, "Joyce. Stop."
He keeps his gaze fixed on John, "So, Mr. Suarez? What'll it be? Fight for our Unlives or let our enemies bring a swift and merciless Final Death to all of us?"
The Assamite Neonate rubs his neck, "I--I don't know. This is all happening too fast. T--Too fast."
Joyce and Tristan exchange glances. The Setite High Priest shrugs, "It's up to you, my friend. I can...help with certain things--"
Tristan interrupts, "Bloody 'ell! Since when was we relying on these Assamite fuckers--"
Seth shoots his fellow Serpent a baleful, shut-the-hell-up kinda look. Tristan shrinks back and lowers his head.
The High Priest paces a tight circle around John, "You and your...kind came to this city weeks ago, seeking refuge from the very same people who destroyed most of you and chased the rest off. You getting found by the SI was bound to happen."
Taking on a very smooth and charming tone, he adds, "And if they about know you, then they must likely know a thing or 2 about...Svetlana. Did you warn her, at least? Do you know where she is right now? Is she safe?"
John gasps and frantically pulls out his phone, but Seth stops him, "Ah, ah, ah. They hear everything these nights, Mr. Suarez. You'd only be endangering her Unlife if you called her up."
The Assamite gulps, "What do we do, then? C--Can you really provide support? CAN we really beat the SI threat in this city?"
Seth softly smiles and gestures, "We can do a whole lot more than 'beat' them, John. Heh, we can...get rid of them. Permanently, once and for all."
Even Tristan and Joyce look skeptical at the High Priest's ambitious proposition, but they both hold their tongues.
John looks askance at the Setite, "Seriously?"
Seth narrows his eyes, but maintains his smug look, "Did I stutter? We have an opportunity here, Mr. Suarez. To...not take it would be the height of stupidity."
John points out, "There's only a few of us Banu Haqim who are with the Blade. If we had Vizier Mohammed's help, we could potentially...maybe rally the other Banu Haqim in this city to our uh..."
Seth fills in, "Cause? Don't worry, I'll speak to the Vizier on behalf of the Blade. He'll understand. Maybe. We'll see."
John scoffs, "He's as spineless as they come, Seth. I don't know how the hell he got chosen as Primogen."
Seth shrugs, "I never pried too much into Banu Haqim business, but that's an interesting assessment. What made you come to that conclusion regarding the Vizier, hmm?"
John dismissively waves his hand, "Forget I even said it. I just...I just wanna warn the others. Svetlana, Abdullah..." his voice trails off and his lips begin to quiver.
Seth points out, "You really should get yourself cleaned up, John. And I assume you were smart enough to park your car at a very, very discreet spot, right? You took extra precautions and made sure you weren't followed, right?" he cocks his head.
The Assamite Neonate furrows his brows, "I...Seth, it's not my 1st time being in trouble, OK? I know how to handle these things. You should probably get the Primogen--"
Seth raises his finger, "Ah, ah, ah. I'll handle that. You better go and warn your Childe. I'd hate for anything...bad to happen to Svetlana." His voice is a mixture of smugness and sincerity. His tone is perfectly measured.
He wants John to take his words in a specific way. It's all part of his cunning game of manipulations, but that is all to be expected from a Serpent.
John side-eyes the High Priest, "Uh...yeah, sure thing. So, you think you'll be able to support us if we were to take the fight to these SI bastards?"
Seth plainly bows his head, "I will do all that I possibly can to support the Blade of Haqim in its...duty." His eyes widen at that last word and he smirks ever so subtly.
John presses his lips into a thin line and looks at the ground, numerous thoughts swirling through his reeling mind. After a moment, he replies, "Well, I guess we'll have to take it. What's the catch? I know you Setites don't do things outta the goodness of your hearts."
Seth spreads his hands, "Come now, Mr. Suarez. You can't judge me based on Clan...stereotypes. I just want to help. The SI won't care if you're Assamite, Setite, Ventrue, Toreador, Malkavian, Caitiff, or whatever- they'll destroy us all the same if they are able to."
Seth says all that with a look of genuine sincerity. It's kind of unsettling to John. But he keeps his thoughts to himself. For now.
Seth takes the Banu Haqim's silence as his cue to go on, "But, we have a real opportunity here. Together, we could end the SI threat in this city and send them a message they'll be reeling from for...the next 100 years, give or take a decade or 2, heh."
John's eyebrows shoot up, "Whoa, then...we'd have to send these assholes a pretty strong message, huh?"
He pauses and looks around, unsure, "I dunno if the rest of the Assamites with the Blade would be down with that. But, if you can talk some sense into that sniveling Vizier..."
Seth interjects, "Let me handle Mr. Khan. In the meantime, YOU warn who you need to warn and marshal the rest of your--"
Just then, Edwin comes rushing in. He bends down, out of stamina, and holds his knees as he desperately catches his breath, "Sir...the compound..." he stops for a few seconds.
Seth looks confused, "Breathe, Edwin, breathe. What happened?"
The Ghoul takes a lung full of breath and exhales. He looks at John and the other 2 Setites and asks Seth, "A little...privacy, sir?"
Seth waves John off, "We'll be in touch. I'll call the Primogen Council for an emergency meeting tomorrow night. Get cleaned up and get some rest. Also, make sure that Svetlana knows what's going on, OK?"
The Typhonist points at John, "That goes double for the rest of the Blade members in this city, OK?"
John gives a half-hearted thumbs-up, "Sure, sure." He hurries to the elevator and waits till it comes up. As soon as it dings and the door slides open, he rushes inside and pushes the button for the lower floor.
As soon as the doors shut, the Neonate takes his phone out, but Seth's words ring through his mind. He puts his phone away and decides to stop by her Haven after he warns Abdullah.
Edwin waits for his Domitor to finish saying goodbye to Joyce and Tristan. After they're sent off, Seth looks at his Ghoul from head to toe, "What's the matter, Edwin?"
Edwin begins, "Someone firebombed the compound--"
Seth's amber eyes widen in shock, "WHAT?! WHO?!"
Edwin continues, "I don't know, s--sir. But, the guards managed to capture him, a--after shooting him in the leg. This person...went on and on about the Reckoning."
Seth's face scrunches up in anger, "God damnit. Hunters. How'd they find us?! Was...was anyone hurt?"
Edwin goes on to explain that the Rötschreck of a few Setites was triggered when the homemade molotov cocktails hit the exterior areas of the cult's compound.
As a result, the vampires started to violently Frenzy and attack anyone and everyone nearby- guards and devotees alike. The guards held fire and were scratched.
However, a few nearby devotees were violently ripped to pieces as a result. 1 of the cultist's hearts was literally pulled out by another Setite in Frenzy. After all the fires were put out, the Setites calmed down and quickly left the scene.
Edwin also adds, "A few of the organic beetroot plots were severely damaged, sir."
Despite the angered look on his face, Seth remains calm. He beckons for Edwin to follow him.
Once in the car, Edwin keeps his eyes fixed on the dark roads ahead. Seth sits in the back, legs spread out. He repeatedly strokes the emeralds in his snake head cane as he silently goes over what he's learned so far.
He looks out the window and mutters to himself, "Damnit. Not good."
Edwin gulps, "He has been apprehended and um...Gallagher is..."
Seth fills in, "Interrogating him? God, I hope so."
The Ghoul tightens his grip on the steering wheel, "Y--Yes, sir. He is doing...just that."
Through the rearview mirror, Seth notices the uncertainty and anxiety in his Ghoul's eyes, "What's wrong, Edwin? Out with it. Is it something related to Ewan?"
Edwin sighs deeply, "I know it's not my place, sir, but Gallagher is a deeply violent man."
Seth shrugs, "So? I need people like him. Especially now."
Edwin keeps his foot on the accelerator and zooms past a light just as it's about to turn red, "I...understand, sir. I'm so sorry for doubting err...Typhon's chosen."
The Serpent replies, "You have my assurance, Edwin, that all will be well." He then leans back in his seat, eyes half-closed.
As they're at the gates of the compound, Seth leans forward and squeezes Edwin's shoulder, "I will never ask you to do anything that I wouldn't do myself."
Edwin remains speechless.
Seth explains, "I've disposed of bodies before, cleaned up after other people's messes, and...you get my drift, Edwin."
Edwin gulps, "Sir..." he says, trailing off.
Seth's voice drops an octave, "There are interesting and intriguing times ahead, my friend. I know that you're gonna be a part of it, right, Edwin?"
Edwin forcefully swallows as stops the car. The gates slide open. Seth exits the vehicle and gives Edwin a reassuring pat on the back, "All will be well. You'll see."
The Ghoul remains silent.
The guards greet the High Priest and take him to the dingy room where the ex-Sheriff is practicing some enhanced interrogation techniques. The door creaks open. The ex-Sheriff looks at Seth.
His hands are stained with blood and he's huffing and puffing with a certain anger. The victim is tied up in the center of the room. He's shirtless and bleeding.
Gallagher spits out, "Fucking asshole...still isn't talking. Keeps on mumbling that fuckin' bullshit about the Reckoning."
Seth twirls his snake cane in his hand and walks over to the dangling Hunter. He places his finger under the young man's chin and pushes it up, forcing eye contact.
The Hunter coughs and spurts out some blood. He glowers at Seth, but he doesn't utter a single word.
Seth coldly inquires, "Who sent you? How did you know about this place?"
The Imbued Hunter shakily responds, "The...The...Reckoning is coming. Af--After Dubai, we...we--"
Gallagher interjects with a mean punch to the abdomen. The Hunter yelps out in pain and coughs some more blood, "You c--can't...stop what's c--coming..." he trails off.
Gallagher turns to look at Seth, "Says a lot about the kinda clowns you used to dust the Gangrel outta Dubai, huh?"
Seth ignores that, "Those 'clowns' were different, Ewan. Mostly. No, what I'm more interested in is how this...joker managed to find my compound."
"The Reckoning. The Reckoning is coming and no one w--will be able to--"
Gallagher grabs the hanging guy's neck and squeezes it tightly, teeth gritted, "FUCKIN' FUCKIN' ANSWER ME, BOYO! HOW DID YOU KNOW ABOUT THIS PLACE?! WHO THE FUCK IS SPILLING OUR FUCKIN' SECRETS?"
The Hunter gasps for air, blood leaking from the side of his mouth, "Y--You are already doomed, c--creature."
Seth taps his snake cane against the concrete ground and steps closer, "The only one doomed is you, Hunter." He says it with a cold, almost sadistic voice.
The Hunter gasps in horror and looks at the High Priest, "You...you know what we are?"
Seth mildly smirks, "I know a whole lot more than that. Amuse me, are you on the Hunter-net.org forums? Is that where you got the location of this place from?"
The Hunter's legs begin to shake slightly, "How--how do you know all this?"
Seth shrugs, "I have my ways. The question remains: how do you know about this place? Who told you about it?"
The Hunter spits, "NO ONE! I simply felt a--a calling. So, I made some firebombs and--"
Seth scoffs and sarcastically responds, "Wow, you made them all by yourself? A regular MacGyver, huh?" he points the tip of his cane at the young Hunter, "Why here? Don't waste my time."
"I know this--this place is a cult. I figured that's where supernatural abominations would be hiding--hiding out."
"Interesting. And yet, I feel that every word out of your mouth has been nothing but lies."
Gallagher sees this as his cue and delivers a swift punch to the Hunter's face. The Hunter's legs start shaking even more.
The High Priest grips the suspended Hunter by his jaw and growls at him, "Tell me: why here? Why us? Who put you up to it?"
"NO ONE! I simply...knew I had to b--bring righteous flame down on the heathens within this vile compound!" the Hunter starts to laugh like a lunatic.
Seth clenches his fists in rage and smacks the guy with his cane, "So be it. If you will not answer, you leave me no choice but to use other methods."
Gallagher grins, "What's it gonna be, boss? I'm ready! You want me to get a pair of rusty pliers? Maybe a cloth and some water?"
Seth shakes his head, "That won't be necessary. Tell me, Hunter, what's your...username on Hunter-net.org?"
The Hunter looks up at the vampire, "What?? Why--why would you want that? What could you possibly want from there? It's just...for Hunters to discuss Hunter-y stuff."
Seth smiles, "It's OK to tell me, young man. It's OK. It won't hurt if you just tell me what you and your Hunter friends discuss on the net."
"It's...Eye0FH0RUS. 0s instead of Os."
Seth nods, "Hmmm, do you know what my username is?"
The Hunter gasps, "NO! Y--You can't! That's--"
Seth plainly declares, "ScalyHand06. You've probably heard of me."
The Hunter's swollen eyes are filled with shock. He shakes his head frantically, "NO! NO! You can't be ScalyHand06!! FRH05 to--told me YOU were the one who helped us rid Dubai of all--"
Seth chuckles, "Yes, I did that. I used you people to take care of a little...inconvenience back in Dubai."
Still suspended by his arms, the Hunter tries to break free but he doesn't manage to budge at all. He helplessly asks, "Wh--why are you telling me all this?!"
Seth cocks his head, "Quid pro quo. I'm sure I've just shattered your entire lie of a life. Now, you tell me who put you up to this."
The Hunter screams out, "NOBODY! Damn you! Damn you! The Reckoning will come for you--"
Gallagher interjects with a vicious uppercut. The subtle sound of teeth falling to the floor is heard, followed by the sound of bone crunching under his knuckles.
The Hunter starts bleeding even more profusely now, but he still won't stop blabbering about the approaching Reckoning.
Seth strokes his chin, "You mentioned FRH05? What do you know about them?"
"I'm NOT telling you ANYTHING! You fucking liar a--and...and..."
"Yes? Liar and...? Don't leave me hanging here, buddy."
"SNAKE!"
The Setite chuckles, "Yes, I suppose that's a fair assessment. Wouldn't you agree, Gallagher?"
Gallagher grins and nods in the affirmative. Edwin stands in a corner, head lowered. The bloody sight in front of him is too much, so he steps out for a second.
The High Priest looks at his friend and nods. Gallagher proceeds to beat up the poor guy to a pulp. His hands are caked with blood, but he's still got enough energy in him to keep going.
He punches and kicks and punches some more. The Hunter is in such agony, that he no longer speaks.
After a minute or 2 of brutal beating, Seth holds up his hand, "That's enough, Gallagher." He checks for a pulse by placing 2 cold fingers on the Hunter's neck.
He then feels a slight flutter, "He's not quite dead yet, Ewan. No need to get so excited."
He taps his cane on the Hunter's bloodied forehead, "What led you to this place, my friend? What...drew you here, hmmm?"
The Hunter weakly looks up, "Ev...Ever since my...my Imbuing, I felt myself drawn to places of inten--intense supernatural activity. This...this place was one such...location." He stops for a few seconds to catch his breath.
The Setite looks on intently, "Did you tell anyone else about this place?"
"Only FRH05...and she--" he gasps when he realizes his slip. He stammers, "Oh, god--"
Seth picks up on this, "'She'? So, FRH05 is a woman? Do tell me more, my friend."
The Hunter timidly shakes his head and refuses. Seth signals for Gallagher to give the Hunter yet another good beating. As the ex-Sheriff delivers, the poor Imbued Hunter keeps yelling at Seth, "N--no, no! S--she'll come for you all! The Reckoning--"
Seth twirls the snake cane as he stands a few feet away and looks on, an indifferent expression on his pale face.
Gallagher keeps going and going, like there's something within him that's being released after being denied for so long. He punches and punches and punches till his fists are drenched with even more of the Hunter's blood.
As Gallagher delivers yet another punch, Seth simply asks, "Does anyone else know about this place? Apart from FRH05, did you tell anyone else? Don't waste my time here."
Gallagher stands back and licks some of the blood from his knuckles. He exclaims, "TASTY! It's like the fear is a...natural sweetener! It's also got the right amount of saltiness so I'm like 'aaah!'"
Edwin comes back in and gasps at the bloody scene. Seth doesn't react in the slightest.
He just continues with his interrogation, "You know this isn't going to end well for you, so why prolong it? Apart from FRH05, or whatever her real name is--"
The Hunter softly whimpers, "Farah. H--Her name is Farah. I never bothered to ask for her la--last name because of the site's 4 Rules..."
The Viper contemplatively nods, "Interesting. Now, we're getting somewhere. Have you 2 ever met in-person?"
The Hunter is in such pain, that he groans and tries to say something, but nothing comes out of his mouth.
The Viper then adds, "Has Farah ever visited this location, or given any hint as to her own location?"
The Imbued Hunter painfully tries to move, but fails, "S--She never did...come here, but I told her that I was ti--tired of sitting around and waiting. So, she...she..."
Seth sighs and fills in, "She gave you that little push you needed, that bit of 'motivation' to firebomb this place, yes?"
The Hunter resignedly answers in the affirmative and his head falls forward in anguish.
Seth pats his shoulder and gives the young Hunter a cold smile, "Thanks for coming forward. I can't even begin to imagine the struggle that you're going through right now."
Gallagher licks his lips and rubs his hands in anticipation, "Oh, man! Can I?"
Seth equably states, "Go right ahead, Ewan. Edwin here can help you dispose of the body after you're done. I'd prefer the incinerator. What this Hunter sows is what he should inevitably reap."
Gallagher laughs out loud, in a menacing, cruel way. It's kind of chilling for Seth, but he's so used to all this that his facial expression remains unchanged.
Edwin keeps to himself in the corner and refuses to make eye contact with his master.
The Hunter begins to scream out when he sees Gallagher's sharp and pointy fangs. Seth twirls his cane a few times and leaves, shutting the door behind him.
Edwin shuts his eyes as Gallagher begins to savagely bite into and tear apart the helpless Hunter's throat. The young man's screams of agony pierce the room.
Seth sits at his sofa, deep in contemplation. He then logs into Hunter-net.org forums with his credentials and shoots FRH05 a message: "What the hell is wrong with you people?"
After a few minutes, a message comes back: "????"
Seth sighs and types: "Don't ask how, but it has recently come to my attention that 1 of us was captured after trying to firebomb a compound."
FRH05 responds: "Shit! Really? Is Eye0FH0RUS OK???"
"They are most certainly NOT OK."
"How do you know all this, ScalyHand06? I have a contact in the Emirati Fire Brigade and there have been no calls to put out any large fires."
"I am in good relations with some people, that's all you need to know, FRH05. The question remains: what are YOU going to do about this situation?"
"I have a location where we can meet and devise a rescue. It's on the outskirts of this city. It's practically in the middle of nowhere."
Seth grins: "Oh, do you now? No, I'm still not comfortable with a face-to-face meeting. I want to know what you know about the place Eye0FH0RUS was supposed to hit."
FRH05 takes time to reply: "I heard rumors that it's a cult of some kind? IDK, could be something else? Maybe a bad retreat. The armed guards around that compound certainly seem off, though."
ScalyHand06: "Who told you all that?"
FRH05: "One of my contacts. We're all part of the same community, remember?"
Seth gets impatient and types out: "WHO? You're already in trouble here."
"How do you even know that?"
"I just do. Now, WHO told you about the compound?"
Farah types back: "Someone who is a member, I think. I get sparse and vague text messages sent 2 me every now and then. She says the cult leader is some American guy who's really charismatic and is even capable of withstanding snake bites. bizarre shit, honestly."
Seth's expression falters slightly for a few moments, but then his lips curl up, and he goes back to typing: "Sounds like someone is just messing with you and leading you on."
Farah types back: "Maybe she is, maybe she isn't. Point is: she's scared, very scared."
Seth retorts: "And you thought that goading some amateur into firebombing a compound was going to help??"
Farah responds: "We're Desperate here, Scaly! After Dubai, we've been swamped with new faces, new members looking to bring the Reckoning to other parts of this country. What we did, with your help, has and is inspiring dozens more to join our cause."
ScalyHand06: "So you want to go around firebombing random places? This is not how you're going to 'save' the others, FRH05. A little...tact is required."
FRH05: "But we're sooooooo tried of waiting!!!! We need to bring the Reckoning to this city NOW! Not yesterday, not last week...NOW!"
Seth faintly chuckles and shakes his head in derision: "Your enthusiasm is certainly something."
Farah quickly types back: "The offer we last spoke of still stands, BTW. I have enough good ppl to put the fear of gods into these rots and leeches that plague this city."
"Yes, I know. Your offer is also something that I haven't forgotten about altogether. I might have something in the...immediate future. It might be similar to what u did in DXB."
FRH05: "We are always ready, ScalyHand06. All we require is your unique expertise and knowledge."
ScalyHand06: "Yes, yes. And right now, this unique expertise and knowledge is telling u in plain English: NO MORE FIREBOMBING RANDOM PLACES."
Farah takes a while to type back: "LOL, K, calm down. Seriously."
Seth decides to tempt her with a little tidbit of info: "I happen to know about what happened to those who got away from you all back in Dubai."
FRH05 immediately responds: ":-O rly? Do tell."
"No, not now. I'm still...gathering more information. I need to be absolutely sure before I hand it all over to you. You understand the need for...subtlety and caution here, correct?"
Farah takes time to type back: "I understand that these bloodsuckers and freaks should all burn in the eternal flame. What more do you want me to understand, ScalyHand06?"
"Never mind. In the future, pls don't go around randomly lobbing firebombs @ random places, OK? Actually, from now on, it'd be better if you check in with me before even moving an inch."
"WTF? Why?"
"Does my reputation on this website not precede itself?"
"Fine, fine, OK. MayB we shuld meet sometime 2moro? U free in the afternoon?"
Seth rolls his eyes: "No, I am a very busy person and don't have time for meetups. Besides, I'd like to keep my identity a secret. Reasons."
"Fair, I suppose, but if we are going to be working closely together, then a name would be nice. Yes, yes, I know what the 4 Rules say, but I'd be more comfortable calling you something else other than ur display name."
ScalyHand06: "Charles will do."
FRH05: "OK, I am Farah."
"That's...a lovely name."
"Awww, tyvm."
Seth looks away from the dim computer screen and blinks a few times. He types back: "Now, pls tell everyone else in this city not to do something so rash and so careless again."
FRH05: "Will do! Are u going to try to find Eye0FH0RUS?"
"I'll try my best, Farah."
"OK, ty. Goodnite."
"Be well."
Seth slams the laptop lid shut. He's determined to find out who in his cult has been talking to the outside world. He strokes his chin, "It's impossible. I already took care of Waleed. Unless..." he trails off and his eyes dart back to the closed laptop.
After what happened to poor Waleed, Edwin, of course, has been quite hesitant about helping the cultists make phone calls to the outside world. The cultists keep asking him, but he has to keep turning them down, much to their consternation.
The Ghoul is now even less comfortable after burying the unfortunate guy. Still, he does have a heart and feels so torn when he hears some of the cultists begging him for a chance to call their loved ones, friends, etc.
It is difficult, so Edwin makes the decision to help them out when no one's looking. And that has worked out about as well as you could imagine.
Back at Nigel's house...
The time is now 2:20 AM. Svetlana is sitting on the sofa, flipping through channels. Once she hears the car outside, she snaps out of her daze and rushes to the door. She opens it and Nigel walks in. His clothes are a bit messy.
He inquires, "How's Boris?"
Svetlana plainly nods, "He is sleeping."
"Very good. Thank you." He reaches into his back pocket, pulls out his wallet, and gives the Assamite babysitter a few dirhams. She looks at the money and then at him.
He shrugs, "For your trouble. It's all we can--"
She shakes her head, "Nyet, nyet. Is OK." She looks down at the ground and then back up at him, "Thank you."
Svetlana grabs her things and leaves. She debates taking another gig, but this one goes on till sunrise. On the bus, her mind vacillates between taking the job for the extra dough or not.
Her more primal side compels her to go back to her Haven and call it a night, but her more human side tells her that she NEEDS the money. Her eyes begin to close as she sits in the bus.
For this 1 night, Svetlana decides to NOT take the job. She sends a quick text message to the prospective client, profusely apologizing, and saying that she won't be able to make it. She also adds that she hopes the client finds someone else.
The client replies back: "It's OK. I hope you feel better soon. :)"
Svetlana puts her phone away and watches the city go by in a blur. The giggles of the Wraith child continue to haunt her. She looks at her hands and clenches them into fists.
The bus stops at a traffic light and a couple of young people walk by. They see Svetlana and give her a few looks. She greets them with a curt nod and goes back to looking at the city outside.
She sees a large group of migrant construction workers, hard hats on, walking in a single file line. They all look tired, defeated, and hungry. The hard work, the constant struggle to get by, and the uncertainty of the future.
All that and much more is written on their sad faces, their barely-nourished bodies, and their sunken eyes. They all look like they've seen better days. Svetlana's eyes linger on them for a moment longer.
She looks on as the bus speeds up and passes them by. She then looks down at her hands once more. Her phone vibrates. It's a junk message. She reads it, deletes it, and sighs deeply. She puts her phone away and looks out the window.
John is outside Svetlana's Haven. He has already warned Abdullah about the SI.
Abdullah, in turn, told John that many Blade of Haqim members have left for, or already are leaving for, Turkey in the next few nights.
The young Blood Sorcerer also added that he would try to convince the rest of them to stay and fight.
John didn't seem convinced, but he thanked Abdullah anyway. Now, he's outside Svetlana's Haven.
He rapidly taps his foot on the floor, and bites his lower lip, getting antsy. He knows better than to call her up, so he just waits.
After about 45 minutes, just as he's about to leave, the elevator dings and Svetlana walks out. The dark bags under her eyes are quite visible. She sees John and her eyes widen in shock, "What are you doing here?"
John responds, "Let's go inside. C'mon."
Svetlana unlocks her front door and lets her Sire in. Without wasting her time, he tells her, "I came to warn you about the SI."
Svetlana gasps and drops her bag on the floor. She loudly asks, "WHAT?!"
John fills her in on what happened earlier tonight. He explains how he was able to escape and what promises Seth made to him. Svetlana is speechless. She doesn't know what to say.
She stands there and lets her Sire go on, "I--I had no other choice, Svetlana. I had to kill 'em. I'm sure you understand."
Svetlana nods, "Da, I understand. What are we to do now, John?"
John inhales sharply, "I...as I said, we'll need to rally whoever's left, get some extra support, and take the fight to these fascist bastards. There really aren't any other choices, heh."
Despite being rather tired, Svetlana solemnly promises, "I am ready, John. We will fight them together. We will Judge them all." There is determination in her tone.
John squeezes her shoulder tightly, "Yes, yes, we will. I'm glad you're on board. We'll need all the help we can get. There's not many of us left in this city. After Dubai, I can't exactly blame the others for leaving."
Svetlana clicks her tongue in frustration, "Hmph, they should NOT have left us like this. But, I will stay and fight. For you, John. For our Clan. For the Blade."
John smiles and hugs his Childe tightly, "Thank you, Svetlana."
He breaks away and tells her, "I have to be extra cautious from now on. Don't text or call unless it's ABSOLUTELY urgent. Also, if you have to, use your Obfuscate Discipline to avoid being seen by cameras and shit like that."
He adds in, "Kinda wish I had Obfuscate instead of Celerity right about now, heh."
Svetlana nods, "Da, I will be careful. You should go now- sun will be up soon."
John presses his lips into a thin line, nods, and leaves. He looks at her apartment door for a few seconds and then walks away.
He gets in his car, which is quite banged up, but not as bad as he thought it'd be. He drives off and heads to his Haven. As he drives, he thinks about the future and what lies ahead.
He wonders if he'll survive this. More so, he wonders if his Childe and those he calls his friends will make it through this mess. He tightens his grip on the steering wheel and exhales.
For now, he resorts to the usual: Kristin Mainhart tunes blasted through a tangled earphone plugged to his iPhone. He dryly hums and drives along the mostly empty streets of Al-Kushraf.
Many minutes later...
John is back at his Haven. He parked his car a bit far away and covered in, just in case. As he's walking towards his front door, he spots his landlord waiting for him.
The man is dressed in a casual robe and sandals. He has a sly and expectant look on his face, but John doesn't pay him any mind. The landlord asks, "Where have you been, Mr. Suarez?"
"Out."
The landlord, who looks to be in his 40s has a beard, thinning hair, and a slightly overweight frame, follows John to his door, "You know what I am going to ask, yes?"
John looks at him and sighs, "I got the money right here, Mr. Nadeem."
The landlord holds out his hand, "Let me see."
The Assamite pulls out the money that he had exchanged earlier tonight. He hands some of it to his landlord, who quickly counts it, "Hmmm, I don't know if this is enough."
John's eyes widen in anger, "What?!"
Mr. Nadeem calmly retorts, "Need I remind you, Mr. Suarez, that our...agreement is...off-the-record? Hmm, hmm? As such, you agreed to pay me extra to avoid the burden that comes with paperwork, agreements, records, and all that."
John clenches his jaw, "I know what I agreed to, Mr. Nadeem. I just gave you A LOT of money, so why are you still here?"
Mr. Nadeem slyly smirks, "I have to...as you Westerners say, 'Oil the wheels, grease the palms' and all of that."
John grunts, "Hmph. Damnit. I'll...I'll need a couple more nights--days to get the rest of the money. OK?"
The landlord shrugs, "OK. I will come back soon, habibi. If you don't have the money by then, then I will have to ask you to leave. It is simply the way of the world. Goodnight."
John rolls his eyes and watches his landlord walk away. He opens his door and enters his apartment. He's so tired, he barely manages to lock the door behind him.
He slams on the door with his fist and yells, "FUCK!" He kicks off his shoes and throws his flecked jacket on the floor. He then plops down on his sofa and throws his head back.
Many thoughts swirl through his mind. A part of him hopes that the Setites have everyone's best intentions at heart, but another part of him tells him that he shouldn't trust them.
At all.
Another part of him tells him that he needs to get some day-sleep and that he should think about all of this tomorrow night.
Elsewhere, in another part of this gilded cage of a city...
ILHC: "Commander Gallant. SITREP?"
OBED: "4 rookie operators confirmed KIA. They were sent to apprehend the blank body by the name of John Suarez for interrogation. Lieutenant Hilda Klein wanted a live one for interrogation purposes."
ILHC: "Not good. First, you lose 2 Mossad assets in Dubai. Now, 4 good men and women are dead. Were these rookies on the Combat-Enhancing Drug Protocol regimen?"
OBED: "They had only begun to utilize it. As such, the effects on the body were not as pronounced as they could have been. This is my fault. I take full responsibility for this."
ILHC: "That's very noble of you, Commander Gallant. However, it does not change the fact that we lost a lot of good people tonight. Have you at least recovered the bodies?"
OBED: "Negative. The blank body used a nearby payphone to call the police. The bodies are currently in the city morgue, but authorities remain reluctant to investigate the matter as far as intel indicates."
ILHC: "You'll need to make arrangements to retrieve those bodies ASAP. The last thing we need is for the media or any other malicious actor to get a hold of this story and run with it. It would cause an international fallout."
OBED: "I know that. I've already dispatched Lt. Klein and a team to retrieve the bodies. Maximum use of force authorized. I will also make sure to send a subtle message to the local authorities that they are not to investigate this matter any further."
ILHC: "Very good, Commander. At least your crisis management skills are commendable. And what of the blank body? Any luck tracking him?"
OBED: "Not very much, no. He knows we're on to him. I have the LVNDR system prioritizing the search for him, but he's been off the grid for hours now. We don't even know if he's still in this city."
ILHC: "Blank bodies are creatures of habit, Commander Gallant. Unless they have extraordinary resources at their disposal, they will seek out that which is safe and familiar. No, he is still in the city."
OBED: "B'ezrat HaShem, we will find him."
ILHC: "B'ezrat HaShem. Any other updates, Commander?"
OBED: "The LVNDR system has flagged many more potential blank bodies in this city. In lieu of targeted hits, we are looking into carrying out an operation similar to the one we carried out against the AJRT back in Dubai, 5 years ago."
ILHC: "Yes, that was a most successful operation. We have no doubt that many blank bodies were killed on that evening. Lieutenant Maximillian Veifer deserves a commendation for such a daring and decisive strike."
OBED: "Indeed, he does. We will do our best to replicate that success here. The LVNDR system is collating the data on the blank bodies and we will be ready to strike within the next few days, God willing."
ILHC: "Excellent. Do not let us down, Commander Gallant. We CANNOT afford to lose any more of our brave and talented people to such vile creatures."
OBED: "I will say the Kaddish for our fallen heroes."
ILHC: "That is all well and good, Commander Gallant. We expect better next time. Operation Sheva is in your hands now. Do not fail us."
OBED: "I won't. I promise."
ILHC: "We understand, more than most, the burden of command. Your father would be proud of you, Obed."
OBED: "Everything I do, I do for Am Yisrael. I have no regrets, no qualms, no doubts. I will not fail- Unit 8211 will not fail."
ILHC: "Unit 8211 is comprised of the best of the best of the best. Failure is simply not in its vocabulary, nor can it ever be permitted. You are dismissed, Commander Gallant. Keep us posted on any future developments."
OBED: "Shalom aleichem (HEB: peace be upon you)."
ILHC: "Aleichem shalom (HEB: unto you peace)."
The secret chat ends. Commander Obed Gallant looks at the screen and sighs deeply. He watches on, in silence, as the messages begin to automatically delete themselves.
He then leans back in his chair and strokes his short beard. He closes his eyes and says a short prayer for the souls of the 4 operatives who were killed tonight.
He thinks about how he could have done things differently, but then he shakes his head and dismisses those nagging thoughts from his head.
Commander Obed Gallant is his in his late-30s. He's balding, has a short beard, and light gray eyes. He's quite well-built and stands a few inches above 6 feet.
After shining military service (I.E., Committing numerous war crimes and atrocities in the Occupied Territories), he was chosen as the director of Unit 8211, Israel's secretive unit dedicated to hunting down supernatural threats.
His (fudged) academic record was also considered when he was being considered for this position. The fact that he's a graduate of Tel Aviv University was certainly a plus.
In addition to all this, he is also fluent in Hindi, English, Hebrew, and a bit of Farsi. He refuses to learn Arabic, as he sees it as the tongue of "savages, terrorists, and beasts."
He is also a semi-devout fella who prays when required. He keeps a kippah on his balding head at all times and observes the Sabbath, unless it's an emergency (or if he doesn't feel like it).
Under his command are 4 Lieutenants. Equally depraved, violent, and ruthless, they each oversee a specific aspect of the Unit's operations, but there's a lot of overlap.
Lt. Maximillian Veifer oversees the Unit's digital operations and has extensive experience with explosives; he bears the most responsibility for planting and setting off the bombs at the Al-Jamal Residential Tower in Dubai 5 years ago.
He had a glowing career in the Shin Bet, essentially working as a provocateur baiting and goading people into saying things that would be considered subversive or anti-state. He was then transferred to Unit 8211 on the recommendation of a colleague.
Lt. Hilda Klein is the field leader. She dispatches, leads, and commands the various teams on the ground. She is known to be ruthless and efficient in her work.
She's been involved in numerous raids and operations throughout the years. Seemingly bored with her desk job at the IDF, she requested a transfer to the Occupied West Bank, in an effort to inject some "excitement" to her life.
When there, she earned the moniker: "Raider of Ramallah." She kidnapped and disappeared innocent people and even destroyed a few Kindred (Tzimisce, mainly) in and around the West Bank.
As a macabre display of her strength, she wears the extracted fangs of the vampires that she personally destroyed around her neck as a necklace. It's as grotesque as it looks.
She was then transferred to Unit 8211 after a superior officer recommended her for the position. Her main role is to make sure that everything goes according to plan when on the field, carrying out ops and stuff like that.
Next up on this rogues' gallery is Lt. Shem Davidai. He's the head of counter-intelligence operations at Unit 8211. He is responsible for keeping tabs on the Unit's enemies, both human and otherwise. He's also the resident tech expert (mostly).
He is also responsible for hacking into the phones, computers, or other devices of the Unit's targets and finding out whatever he can about them. Using proprietary spyware that's decades ahead of any nasty thing on the market, Lt. Davidai can get the information he needs.
Last (certainly not least) is Lt. Liora Raz. She specializes in PSYOPS, disinformation, media manipulation, etc. She's also the Unit's "face" as she is the one usually tasked with talking to the higher-ups and spinning the Unit's actions, justifying them in their eyes.
She's a skilled propagandist (basically a liar) and Commander Obed recognizes this and utilizes her hyperbole and lies to the best of his ability.
In time, the Blade will Judge all of them. For now, however, these scum go about their duties- hacking, spying, and murdering their way through the city.
Chapter 12: Escalation- Part 1
Before sunrise, Lt. Klein and a small team raided the city morgue. In predictable Israeli fashion, they violently shot their way through, killing about a dozen medical examiners and morgue workers.
Once they were done, the bodies of the 4 goons were quickly loaded onto the back of a nondescript truck and then driven away.
The retrieval op was cold, deadly, merciless, and efficient. The Emirati authorities were quick to sweep everything under the rug. All they know is that the assailants wore heavy tactical gear, concealed their faces with balaclavas, and carried some serious firepower.
To throw the authorities off their scent, Lt. Klein also ordered the team to grab a few other random bodies. 1 of those bodies happened to be the poor Saudi Arabian woman that Gallagher beat into a coma.
After succumbing to her wounds, her body was sent to the city morgue for an autopsy. It's now been retrieved and is on the truck, too.
A few hours later, the truck is in a secret facility.
A few low-level thugs dump the unneeded bodies into a mass grave and light them on fire with flamethrowers, but they keep the ones belonging to the 4 Unit 8211 agents. These are taken to another part of the facility and wrapped in body bags.
Their belongings, such as their clothes, etc. are stored away for now.
These items will be given to their respective families or close friends. The 4 agents were young, single, and stained with innocent blood from Israel's most recent incursion into Gaza.
As the sun rises, the city is bathed in this warm light. The mortals awaken and get ready for another day of hard work. The streets are buzzing with activity. The buses are full, people are walking around, going about their usual routines.
Later that night, at a swanky hotel...
Seth called the Primogen Council to a hotel in the northern part of the city. They are all seated around a large table.
He stands up, "Good evening, everyone."
He is met with silence. After a few seconds, the Malkavian Primogen, Absalom, nods in his direction, "Good evening, High Priest." His blue eyes are as cold and intense as ever.
The room is dimly-lit, in accordance with Setite needs. Mr. Bean sits next to Absalom and fidgets with the end of his cheap blazer. His expression remains impassive. He's not entirely sure on what's going on around here.
(Absalom just drags his charge around to wherever).
The Toreador Primogen, Sebastian, and the Nosferatu Primogen, Tommy, sit next to each other. Tommy glowers at Sebastian through his mosaic-patterned porcelain mask.
Sebastian grimaces and moves his chair a few inches away.
Tommy shakes his head and mutters something under his breath.
Mark, the Ventrue Primogen sits next to Absalom and raises his hand, "Seth?"
Seth gestures for him to continue, "Yes, Mark?"
The Ventrue Primogen states, "This meeting is for Primogen only, right? What are the...others doing here? And why aren't we at Elysium? This place doesn't have that uh...pizzazz."
The Banu Haqim Primogen, Vizier Mohammed, straightens up. He whispers something to the woman next to him.
Ms. Kawasaki wears a permanent scowl on her face. She's twitchy and looks around, like she's gonna get jumped at any moment.
Vizier Mohammed tries to calm her down. She grunts and goes back to her silent staring contest with the floor.
The Harpy, Paul, of Clan Toreador is also present. He's seated right next to Ms. Kawasaki. He looks at her and smiles, but she doesn't react in the slightest.
Seth clears his throat, "You have a point, Mark, but this isn't Elysium, so it's fine."
Sebastian asks, "So, what the hell did you gather us here for, huh?"
Seth doesn't waste time and begins, "Our enemies are on to us. Last night, John Suarez, who I'm sure you're all familiar with by now, was attacked by 4 Second Inquisition operatives."
Gasps (some louder than others) are heard.
Mark's the first to ask, "Wait, what? How? Are we sure?"
Absalom plainly responds, "The Second Inquisition is always a concern. Their reach is long. It was only a matter of time before they found us here."
Tommy's Scottish accent gets thicker when he states, "Fuckin' wallopers, the whole lot of them. Aye, they're everywhere, ain't they?"
Seth calmly adds, "Indeed, the SI is a problem, but one that we can handle. I'm confident about it."
Vizier Mohammed speaks up, "You are sure it was them, yes? Perhaps it was--"
Seth holds a finger up, "Yes, I am sure it was them. I don't see why Mr. Suarez would lie--"
Ms. Kawasaki cuts in, "Those fucking Blade fanatics...you can't just take their word for it!" her teeth are gritted and her expression remains tense.
Absalom turns to her and says, "You would be wise to watch your speech, Assassin." His eyes burrow into her very being.
Ms. Kawasaki scoffs and turns her head aside. She sarcastically says, "I...apologize."
Vizier Mohammed squeezes her shoulder and whispers to her, "Ms. Kawasaki, please. You are embarrassing me."
He looks at Seth and prods, "Have you been able to confirm the veracity of John's allegations? I know we are of the same Clan, but I have always found those of the Blade to be rather...unpredictable and prone to volatility."
Seth's eyes narrow, "No, no, I personally haven't had a chance to confirm his story yet. But something interesting happened early in the morning."
Mark pipes in, "Why haven't you confirmed the story, Seth?"
Sebastian cuts in, "Yeah! After what that Slavic bitch did to me, I don't trust a single fucking one of these Assamite assholes!"
Vizier Mohammed takes offence, "Mr. Gorsky! The Blade of Haqim is but a small faction of our great, wise, noble, and venerable Clan! We are not all the same, nor are we in agreement with their teachings. Please, have a little understanding."
Ms. Kawasaki snickers.
The Toreador Primogen waves his hand dismissively, "Whatever. Point is: I don't like crazies running around our city. Conversely, I DON'T like the prospect of SI agents running around, either. That's bad for business, especially mine."
Ms. Kawasaki rolls her eyes and shakes her head, "Pfft. You fucking fashion weirdos."
Vizier Mohammed shoots his charge a stern look. She folds her arms and sinks back into her chair.
Mark clears his throat and says, "What happened in the morning, Seth? Was it related to last night?"
The Typhonist High Priest nods, "Possibly. A few bodies were stolen from the city morgue. About a dozen people were killed, too."
Tommy exclaims, "Fuckin' 'ell! Do we know who did it?"
Seth shakes his head, "We do not. My...people are currently trying to find out more. But, it is most likely the Second Inquisition retrieving their people's bodies. Gotta give 'em points for dedication to the cause, heh."
Paul speaks up, "Well...they seem to know what we are. How's John doing, by the way?"
Ms. Kawasaki scoffs, "Who cares about that little--"
Seth interjects, "He's doing fine, actually. A bit shaken up, but not quite stirred yet."
The Toreador Primogen blandly inquires, "And what about that Slavic bimbo bitch? She still kicking?"
Seth narrows his eyes, "Yes, Sebastian. She's fine." His amber eyes linger on the Toreador Primogen for a few moments.
Absalom leans forward, "What is this, then? You gathered us here for a purpose, High Priest. What is it?"
Seth responds with a question of his own, "Ah, Absalom. Have you uh...seen anything in regards to the SI? As I understand, you had an intense vision right before the Hu--SI drove you and the others out of Dubai, yes?"
The Malkavian Elder sighs deeply. He rolls his broad shoulders and lowers his head. His piercing blue eyes look away from everyone.
Mr. Bean, who has been silent for the whole duration, looks at him with a raised eyebrow.
Absalom takes a moment to collect himself, then replies, "There was a vision...yes. But, by the time we could do anything about it, it was already too late. I and a few from our Clan fled to this city, whilst others fled to Abu Dhabi or elsewhere."
Seth queries, "Just out of curiosity, in your vision, did you ever get a good look at the um...faces of the people who came to Dubai and caused all the damage?"
The Malkavian Elder shakes his head and rubs his tired face, "No, no. All I saw were flashes of fire, explosions, gunfire, ash, and blood. I also saw many doves flying into walls with the force of bullets."
He looks around the room, "I saw a black cloud, or some kind of fog. It was moving along the ground and engulfing everyone, including us."
Tommy asks, "What happened after?"
Absalom continues, "I saw Prince Angela, down in the sewers. She and the other Gangrel were being chased by...something unusual, something I could not determine."
His eyes flicker around the room. Everyone's rapt with attention. Even Ms. Kawasaki has her undivided focus on the Elder Malk.
He adds, "I saw her...extending her hand, as a gesture of peace, to the ones who would eventually destroy her. Her face was radiant and beautiful as it always was. She was wearing a crown, made from green leaves. I believe she was about to say something."
The Malkavian Primogen goes quiet and his lips quiver slightly.
Mr. Bean whispers, "Are you OK, Abs?"
The Elder nods, "Even now, I do not understand most of it. It has only been a few weeks since that happened, yet, it feels like an eternity has passed since the destruction of the Dove Prince and the others."
Tommy leans forward, "You didn't see anythin' about us, did ye?"
Absalom shakes his head, "No, I did not."
Mr. Bean stifles a snicker and smirks.
Tommy notices this and points, "Oi! Bleached hair! You got something yous wanna share with us, pal?"
The young Seer shifts in his seat, "Uh, no, no. I was just...thinking about stuff, is all."
Absalom quickly intervenes, "I apologize if Mr. Bean's behavior is inappropriate. He is my charge and I ought to take better care of him. Perhaps I should ask him to--"
Seth waves his hand, "No, no, no, no. It's OK. Let him stay. Ms. Kawasaki, you're also more than welcome to stay, if you so choose."
Ms. Kawasaki looks at him and shrugs, "I'm fine. I just wanted to make sure the Second Inquisition isn't a problem anymore. I fought a couple of them...years ago. Not in this part of the world, but SI is SI wherever the fuck you go, y'know?"
Sebastian rolls his eyes and groans.
Mark exhales sharply, "Yeah, we're not gonna be able to get rid of the SI anytime soon, are we?"
Seth counters, "Actually, I believe this latest development could help us get rid of the SI threat permanently. Or, so I hope."
Paul's eyebrows shoot up in surprise, "Really? W--What did you have in mind?"
The High Priest's eyes light up, "The Second Inquisition in this part of the world are Israeli operatives, or at least a significant portion of them are."
Vizier Mohammed speaks up, "And how does that affect us, High Priest?"
The High Priest explains, "This is a golden opportunity for us to take advantage of. I'm sure you're all aware of the Blade of Haqim's views on the State of Israel, yes?"
Sebastian grunts, "Pfft. More sand monkeys shooting at each other and throwing rocks like fucking baboons. Just nuke 'em already and be over with it. Jesus."
Seth faintly chuckles, "I can't exactly disagree with you, Sebastian, but I'm not talking about the mortals, not right now. No, I'm proposing that we use the Blade of Haqim to get rid the Second Inquisition in this..."
He pauses for dramatic effect, "...country. Permanently."
Mr. Bean's eyebrows arch up, "Wait, what?"
The Nossie Primogen looks at the Seer, then at Seth, "Did someone drop yous on the head after your Embrace? These are no some amateurs we're talkin' about here! Furthermore, there's no enough of these Blade people to fight the entire focking SI!"
He stands up and bangs the table, "It's fockin' suicide, mate; your head would 'ave to be complete mince to come up with this daft plan!"
Tommy sits back down and shakes his head, "Ach, fuck. And here I was thinking you were a smart Setite, Seth. But no, no, now I see that you're a right idiot."
Seth remains remarkably composed and calm. He raises his hand, "Before you all pass a premature judgment, please let me explain further."
Tommy clicks his tongue, "Och, please. This better be worth our time."
Seth begins, "As far as I'm concerned, the Second Inquisition would fall easily. If we picked our battles wisely, chose when to strike, how to strike, and where to strike, we could eliminate them without any problems."
He adds, "Furthermore, we have a number of resources and assets at our disposal--"
The Ventrue Primogen shakes his head, looking unsure, "Who's 'we'? Y--You don't expect us to, like, foot the bill for this crusade, right? Now, look, I want the SI gone as much as the next guy, but things like this don't come cheap."
He nervously chuckles, "I'm Ventrue, I should know, heh! Anyway, yeah, I just...uh, wanted to get that out there."
Seth assuages his fears, "You won't have to foot any bill or spend any money, Mark. The Ministry stands ready to take care of that."
Tommy clicks his tongue and makes a gurgling sound, "Aye, Sethie boy! Your Clan would 'ave more luck finding Nessie in the dunes than supporting the Blade. I know enough to know they won't agree to what you're proposing here."
Seth stifles the annoyed sigh threatening to escape him. Instead, he calmly replies, "It will require a certain amount of convincing, yes. But, we can handle that. We have to. For all our sakes."
He points to the Nosferatu Primogen and sternly says, "And I expect YOU to contribute something to this in a meaningful way."
Tommy grumbles, "Ach, aye, sure, mate. I'm actually starting to like these Blade of Haqim lot."
Sebastian mutters, "Yeah, cuz you voted to support that dumb blonde bitch the other night--"
Tommy picks up on this and chuckles, but it sounds more like gravel being crushed, "Hey, hey! I got a simple motto for me Unlife. You know what it is, pal?"
The Toreador Primogen shoots him an exasperated look, and rolls his eyes. He goes back to preening himself.
Tommy states, "Nae be a walloper. In your case, it would be: nae be a racist walloper."
Seb grunts and shoots the Nossie a baleful and angry look, "Don't you fuckin' go there, you ugly, sewer-dwelling son of a bitch. I will...I will..." he trails off. His face has turned red from rage. His nostrils are flaring, he looks like he's gonna have a fit.
He stands up and sits away from the Sewer Rat. He folds his arms like a petulant child and leans back in his seat. He's now a good distance away from Tommy. He won't even look in the Nossie's general direction.
Tommy laughs and then looks at Seth, "So, High Priest...where were we?"
Seth softly sighs, "The squeaky wheel gets the grease. The SI is our only priority. I want everyone gathered here to put aside their micro ambitions, petty squabbles, and personal concerns and focus on getting rid of the Second Inquisition."
Tommy slaps the table with the palm of his deformed hand, "Aye! I'm in!"
Seth nods, "I'll take it that...we now have access to the vast information networks your Clan utilizes?"
With an expecting look, he presses his luck, "And maybe even the SchreckNet, hmm?"
Tommy scoffs, but it comes out more like a wet cough, "Nae be getting ahead of yourself there, pal! But...yeah, we'll do our best, Seth." He makes a clicking noise with his teeth and tongue.
The High Priest turns his attention to Mark, "And Mr. Kincaid. You're the high-roller amongst us. I suppose you'd be willing to...finance this little, but necessary, plan of ours, yes? Not the entire thing, of course. Just a small contribution."
The Ventrue sits there quietly. He's obviously in deep thought. After a few moments of deliberation, he replies, "I mean...the prospect of eliminating a common threat appeals to me, yes, but..."
He exhales sharply, "...my finances are a real mess right now. It--it's complicated, OK? I--I mean, if someone were to err...say, get arrested or something, then yeah, I could 'convince' the authorities to let 'em go, but...heh."
Seth equably says, "I guess that'll have to do. Hmm..."
Sebastian raises his chin and looks at his nails like they're the best thing on planet Earth. He adjusts his man bun and fiddles with the gold and silver rings on his fingers, "Well, you can forget about my involvement. I'm not doing shit for the Blade of Haqim or whoever."
Paul springs up and points, "Fuck you, Seb! Y'know, the other Toreadors in this city see you for who you really are- a goddamn Karl Lagerfeld wannabe!"
He goes on to explain, "They just don't wanna say it to your goddamn face cuz they still have business and shit with you, BUT I'M NOT THEM!" The last sentence comes out more forcefully and emphatically.
The Harpy angrily says, "As a Toreador myself, I say we rally behind the Blade of Haqim! I override the Primogen and promise to help the Assamites exterminate the Second Inquisition! So there! Suck it, Sebastian!" His pale face is beet-red with rage and passion.
Seth looks skeptical, "Can you actually do that? Override a Primogen? Hmm, well, I'll leave internal Toreador politics to you 2."
Paul tugs on his jacket and sits back down.
Seth calmly asks Sebastian, "Well...the least you could do is maybe check if your models conceal a gun under those fancy dresses of theirs."
Mr. Bean stifles another snicker, but he stops when Seth gives him a dirty look.
Sebastian scoffs, "My models are all fucking twigs anyway. I can practically see their ribcages, haha! There's no fucking way they're spies. No, they're just desperate...and deluded."
The way he talks about the models under him (figuratively, at least) is borderline vile. He continues, "If I can find any evidence to suggest that they're ACTUALLY SI agents, then I'll be more than happy to give you a call, Seth."
Absalom chimes in, "It would be better if you killed them."
The Aesthete clicks his tongue and mutters, "They're already dead, anyway. What with all the heroin, vodka, fillers, and...well, I think you know the rest." He lets out a mirthless chuckle.
The Malkavian Primogen promises, "I shall make use of my Auspex Discipline to track our enemies across this land."
The High Priest queries, "Why not use Dominate? I'm sure an Elder as powerful as yourself has mastered all the Disciplines by now."
The Elder Lunatic shakes his head, "For all my Unlife, I have exclusively focused on mastering everything that pertains to the Auspex Discipline, High Priest. My mastery is unchallenged. Dominate, however, is something I cannot fully grasp, no matter how much I practice it."
He adds, "Even after all these years...and many failed attempts, Dominate continues to perplex and elude me. For this, I deeply and sincerely apologize." He bows his head in a very reverential manner.
Seth holds his hand up, "It's no issue. I'm sure we'll have some use for Auspex down the line. What about you, Mr. Bean?"
The young Seer answers, "Uh...I'm Auspex too. N--Never really paid much attention to the other Disciplines. Absalom here teaches me stuff about them, though. He's uh...a great mentor. He really knows his stuff, haha." He chuckles awkwardly and nervously.
Seth shrugs, "Fair enough. Now, what about you...Vizier Mohammed Khan?"
The Banu Haqim Primogen sighs, feeling frustrated and annoyed at being singled out like this, "Yes? I mean, yes, High Priest? How may I be of service to you and the rest of our brethren?" His eyes flit around the room like a fly, looking for a place to land on.
The Setite plainly responds, "You know what I'm gonna say..."
Vizier Mohammed scratches his cheek and shifts around in his chair, "Y--Yes...of course...I simply do not agree with many of the Blade's teachings."
Seth replies, "As do I. But, they are just as much as Banu Haqim as you are- same Clan Compulsions, Banes, Disciplines, and so on. The Blood of Haqim courses through their veins as it does yours. And Ms. Kawasaki's."
Ms. Kawasaki seems repulsed by that statement, for whatever reason.
He continues, "But, even though their teachings may seem a bit...radical to many, including me, the fact of the matter is that we need the Blade of Haqim."
The Vizier contests, "Do we?"
Seth clenches his jaw, "Yes. We do. The SI won't care what Clan, Sect, or even Bloodline we pay our allegiances to. They'd destroy us all the same. As we all know, their mandate is to purge the Kindred...and other supernaturals from the world."
The Elder Malkavian looks at Vizier Mohammed and states, "While I understand and sympathize with your ambivalence towards those of your own Clan, it is prudent that you consider the grander implications of our actions and decisions, Vizier."
He leans forward and asks, "Have you no loyalty towards our own kind, Mr. Khan? Surely you must know how wicked and numerous our enemies are on nights as perilous and dire as these?"
The Banu Haqim Primogen remains silent and stares into nothing. Absalom is about to say something, but Mr. Bean quietly nudges him.
The Malkavian Primogen sighs, "I have said what needed to be said. I cannot and will not make this decision on your behalf, but I will support it as best I can." He bows his head.
The High Priest turns to Paul, "I think you made it pretty clear how you feel about this, Paul. We appreciate the support." He nods his head.
Paul shoots a dirty look at Seb and then warmly smiles at Seth, "As Harpy, I sit on a ton of info and um...gossip. Heh, not as much as Tommy and his people here. But, I'll do whatever I can."
He pauses and thinks about something, then adds, "I can arrange to have the others, the rest of the Toreador, pitch in. Heck, maybe I might have come across a few SI...unwittingly, of course. I'll need to go over some things later."
Seth nods and says, "Whatever you can do to help will be greatly appreciated, Paul." He gives a friendly smile.
Sebastian huffs, "What do you even think you're gonna find?"
Seth clears his throat and looks to the Vizier, "Have you come to a decision yet, Vizier Mohammed? We are in desperate need of people who are capable of...fighting. Viciously."
Vizier Mohammed takes a deep breath. He looks at Ms. Kawasaki and forces a smile. She keeps the obnoxious scowl on her face. She fiddles with her leather jacket collar, absentmindedly.
The Vizier rubs his face with 1 of his hands. He lets out an audible sigh, "I...it is no simple decision to make. The Assamites that I represent hold a similar...passion in regards to the conflict in Falasteen. Many abhor the Zionists and have been wanting to do something for many years, now."
Ms. Kawasaki asks, "And? Are YOU gonna do something about it now, or not? I don't give a shit what the others think." Her eyebrows arch up and she stares at her Primogen impatiently.
Vizier Khan calms her down, "I myself see the Blade's methods as extreme and disagreeable, but..." he closes his eyes and takes a deep breath, "...they are our own kind, our Blood. We cannot simply leave them to fall to the Inquisitors and their proxies."
Ms. Kawasaki bitterly shakes her head, "You can't be fucking serious--"
Seth gets impatient. He tilts his head, "Is that a yes or a no, Mr. Khan? I'm not asking for an NYT op-ed here." His eyes glow amber. His expression is tense, yet also controlled.
The Vizier clears his throat, "Y--Yes. Yes, I support YOUR cause, High Priest. Not that of the Blade's. But, if we are to do this, we are to do this properly and efficiently."
Seth dryly shrugs, "Well, that'll have to do. I know John won't be too happy to hear that, but can't please 'em all, heh."
Absalom nods and smiles, "Thank you, Vizier Mohammed. When Unlife is on the line, other considerations should be put aside. Temporarily, at least." He's smiling like the cat that got the canary.
Vizier Mohammed sighs deeply again and then rubs the back of his neck. The look on the face of this spineless man who stands for nothing is one of anguish and confusion.
Seth looks around and says, "Very good. Now, with that out of the way...the plan is to locate, draw out, and eliminate the Second Inquisition operatives in this part of the world."
He narrows his eyes and emphasizes, "We're gonna wipe 'em all out- from the lowest field operative to whoever runs the damn thing."
Mr. Bean pumps his fists in the air, "HOORAH!"
Ms. Kawasaki rolls her eyes and throws her head back, completely disinterested in these proceedings. She mumbles to herself, "What kind of a fucking circus did I get myself into?"
After a minute or 2, Gallagher comes waltzing in. He's dressed in smart casuals, with his beige shirt buttoned down, revealing some chest hair.
"What's up, losers?" he walks over to Seth and hands him a DVD.
Seth takes it and Gallagher explains, "I was snooping around the city morgue. Man, whoever shot that fucking place up were pros...and fucking ruthless. Lemme tell ya that much. I've never seen so much goddamn blood!"
The High Priest ignores his fellow Setite and places the DVD on the table. He explains to everyone present, "I believe this is some of the camera footage from last night, right, Ewan?"
He pops it in the nearby DVD player, and presses "PLAY".
Gallagher nods, "Yeah, it only runs for a few seconds. Fuckers made sure to wipe the footage- remotely, heh. We were lucky to salvage this."
Paul queries, "Who's 'we'?"
Gallagher glances at the Harpy, "It's...we, OK? Don't question me, Harpy. Hey, isn't Harpy normally supposed to a girl's job? Unless you're one of those freaky tran--"
Seth clears his throat, "Ewan. Enough."
Seth unpauses the footage and it shows a few nondescript SI operators, clad in tactical gear and balaclavas, mercilessly shooting their way through the morgue.
A petite woman in a hijab begs for her life, hands held up in surrender, and tears rolling down her cheeks. But a nearby SI goon empties their entire clip into her head, turning it into bloody pulp.
A couple of men wearing doctor coats and scrubs are then grabbed from behind. They're spun around and the backs of their heads are blown out. Their lifeless bodies are left lying on the floor as the rest of the SI unit proceed with their corpse-retrieval operations.
The Vizier gasps at this sight. Absalom shakes his head. Sebastian looks away and grimaces.
Paul has his hand over his mouth, eyes widened in shock and disbelief. Even Mark looks a bit shaken by this, though he doesn't say anything.
Tommy groans and scratches the table, leaving claw marks, "Fuckin' heartless cunts those lot."
Mr. Bean looks on and gulps deeply.
Ms. Kawasaki blithely states, "Seen it all, done it all. They're garden-variety thugs. Nothing new there. Nothing's gonna change anytime soon, so why even bother?"
Seth pauses it, "Well, that confirms that, at least." He calmly looks around the table, then looks back at Gallagher, "Thank you, Ewan."
Gallagher shrugs and grins, "Hey, no probs, buddy. Hell, I even burnt it on a DVD for ya. Did it all by myself, heh-heh."
He turns to the others, hands spread out, "Yeah, I'm hip, I'm cool."
Absalom regards the former Sheriff with those cold eyes of his, "What is your purpose here, Gallagher? After Prince Angela removed you from your position as Sheriff, you simply vanished without a trace. No one really knew what you were up to."
Gallagher maintains his smug expression, chin raised high, "Yeah, you losers didn't even bother to check up on me, send me a card, nothing. You were all too fucking busy sucking that Gangrel's massive tits--"
Absalom glowers at the Setite, "Do not speak ill of the destroyed, Mr. Gallagher. I wished to contact you, but some said you had already left Dubai for Al-Kushraf after...what had happened."
Gallagher rubs the base of his neck, "Ah, fuck all that. Water under the bridge and shit like that. I'm a new man now. Hell, I'm STILL here, aren't I?"
The Elder Seer looks at the High Priest, "What is this man's purpose, Mr. Steale? Do you...give him purpose? After Dubai, I feel that he has...lost his way, in more ways than 1."
Seth's amber eyes narrow, "It doesn't matter what he was in the past, or what he did or didn't do. He's on our side now. We need him and his unique set of skills."
He points to the video and then the DVD, "As you can see, he's already done quite a bit for us."
Gallagher smugly nods, "Yeah, I fucking have. A little gratitude won't hurt, y'know. I know you're an Elder and all, but Jesus, Absalom, you've still got to get used to the new way of getting shit done, huh? Fucking...how old are you, again? Something about 1000 years?" he snidely chuckles.
Mr. Bean snaps at the Setite, "Hey! Watch it, buddy! Absalom is older than this entire room combined! He's seen things, he's--"
Gallagher folds his arms and mockingly jibes, "Aww, look at that. Slim Shady over here is standing up for the old-timer. Cute."
Absalom remains composed. He inquires, "Is there a purpose to this?"
Mr. Bean's face scrunches in confusion, "Slim Shady? Did--did your, like, cultural frame of reference end a freaking decade ago, man? Seriously, dude, you gotta--"
Seth audibly clears his throat, "OK. We're not gonna turn this meeting into an 'old is gold' type of discussion. Gallagher, wait outside."
Mr. Bean clears his throat, too. His cheeks have a tinge of red. Gallagher smirks and saunters away from the group.
Absalom says, "Please, forgive his behavior, Mr. Steale. Gallagher is not the man he used to be." His lips tremble ever so slightly.
Seth nods, "I know that, Absalom. I know that."
Sebastian pipes up, "Why? What happened to him?"
Seth vaguely answers, "Some things are best left unsaid and unanswered. OK?" he stares down at the Toreador.
Sebastian shakes his head, "Well, I just think that we're all gonna end up regretting having him on the team." He turns away.
Tommy adjusts his mask, "Aye. That one is a violent fella. He beats fuck out of people for nae reason at all. Nearly beat 1 of me own intae the dust a wee while back. It was only through quick thinking and some strong-arming that I managed to avoid an escalation there."
He wags his deformed finger at the High Priest, "That Gallagher fellow has issues, mark my words, Seth."
Seth impassively replies, "Duly noted. But, he's my friend and I trust him with my Unlife. I'd ask that you extend the same to me, yes?" he folds his arms across his chest and gives the Nossie a pointed look.
Sebastian throws his hands in the air and leans back. He grumbles and mutters something, but no one pays him much attention.
Paul cuts in, "I've...heard rumors about Gallagher's violence, Seth. Sure, muscle like that might be useful during times like these, but during...less-troublesome times, hmmm?"
That legitimate question lingers in the air for a few tense moments.
The Vizier speaks up, "If Seth trusts this man, then I see no reason why we should withhold our own trust as well, no? For the sake of Unlife itself. These are strange, indeed, the darkest of nights."
Mark gives his opinion, "Ehh, I dunno. I've personally seen Gallagher beat the ever-living shit outta some guys that were just hanging around near his Lambo. Y--You know, that nice blue one he owns?"
He leans forward and goes on, "Anyway, I'm just saying, I'm not sure how...wise this choice of yours is, Seth. I know he's a Setite like you. I know he's been through some shit back in Dubai and all, but--"
Seth holds up a finger, "Thank you, Mr. Kincaid, for your 2 cents. Need I remind you that none of us here are perfect, hmm? We've all done things, whether in life or Unlife, that can be construed as...bad or undesirable."
The High Priest goes on, "As long as we all accomplish our goals, in the end, I don't really care how many people you beat up in the process of achieving that. Does everyone here get where I'm coming from?"
Some agree, whilst others communicate their disagreement with subtle head-shaking and barely-audible murmurs.
Seth exhales sharply, "Look, the point is: I will never ask Gallagher or anyone else in this room to do something that I, Seth Steale, wouldn't personally do myself."
The High Priest plainly confesses, "I've killed before. Sometimes intentionally, other times when caught in the euphoria of feeding. I've gotten rid of bodies on the behest of my Sire, Rafael De La Cruz, and I've even taken part in a few Blood Hunts. And that's just scratching the surface."
Sebastian bitterly scoffs, "We get it already! Sheesh. You've killed. I've killed. She's killed. Who fucking hasn't, huh? It's a part of being who and what we are. No need to wax poetic or get soooo dramatic about it!"
Tommy quips, "Nae wallopers like ye. Nae be putting us all in a box and painting in broad strokes, Seth."
Seth claps back, "And I'm supposed to believe that YOU'RE clean and pure, completely blameless in the sight of Apep?" his tone has gotten sharper and more forceful.
The High Priest presses, "Tommy, my friend. You are not exempt from this. You can't sit there, with a straight face, and tell me that you haven't taken a life before."
Tommy's gaze turns downward. His sickly eyes are unfocused. He takes a deep and harsh breath. The others in the room stare at him.
"Ach, fine! I'll admit it! I have! But--But--" for a moment, it looks like, he's gonna take his mask off, but his deformed hand quickly falls back onto his thighs.
He looks at Seth and shouts, "But...I just couldnae control myself! The--The blood, it was so fucking sweet..." he trails off, his eyes tearing up with blood.
It's clear that he regrets his actions, and not a night goes by where he doesn't remember the faces of those he's tragically killed. The lives taken just to satisfy his eternal and nagging Hunger.
Paul awkwardly pats his back, "Uh, there, there. It's...alright. We just have to strive to do better next time, hmm?"
Seth intensifies his serpentine gaze on the Harpy, "And what about you, Paul? Hmmm, no dusty skeletons in your closet? You seem to know most of everyone else's, but...in all the time I've known you, you remain an enigma. Are you hiding something?"
Paul's face twitches and tics. He folds his arms, "Didn't know we were doing this tonight. If so, I'd have brought my sharing stick." The sarcasm in his tone is apparent, but there is a bit of something else in there as well.
Vizier Mohammed cuts in, "I have done worse than merely taking the life of a mortal..."
Seth smirks and fills in, "Diablerie."
The Banu Haqim Primogen gasps, eyes widening in shock.
The Typhonist lazily waves his hand, "Oh, c'mon. Everyone here knows the Banu Haqim Clan Bane. There's no use hiding it. Heh, just...don't bite into any of our necks, OK?"
The Vizier lowers his head, embarrassed.
Continuing with this, Seth turns his attention to Ms. Kawasaki, "Well, I'm already...mostly familiar with your story. Anything you wanna add?"
Ms. Kawasaki smugly warns, "Yeah, I carry a tantō with me. Always. It's sharp and ready to cut, if anyone wants to start anything with me. Got that? I ain't a goddamn pushover. Don't treat me like one." Her face is stony and serious, yet also expressive.
Seth raises his hands in mock surrender, "Oh, I'd never dream of antagonizing you."
Next, he turns to Mr. Bean, who starts to squirm and twitch, "Um, what's uh...what's up? Is this uh...the part where we do uh...that sharing thingy that uh...Paul talked about? A stick sounds nice...err--"
Absalom speaks up on behalf of his charge, "With the utmost respect, I find this tangent to be wasteful. Beasts we are, lest Beasts we become. I ask that we not turn our gathering into a confessional for all of our...unsavory deeds." His icy eyes narrow and he frowns.
The air in the room turns heavy, like it's hard to breathe. Not that vampires need to breathe, anyway.
Seth plainly concurs, "Yes, yes. The Elder is right. Still, I just wanna be sure that we're all on the same page here."
He clears his throat and confidently proclaims, "I strongly believe that tonight's meeting is but the 1st step in sealing the fate of Al-Kushraf city for the next century, possibly longer."
Mumbles and mutters spread across the group. It looks like Seth is keeping something else quite close to his chest. After a few moments, they eventually settle down and await further instruction from their host.
Ms. Kawasaki is the only one still looking impatient and annoyed by this meeting. She stands up and says she's gonna hang around near the hotel bar.
Mr. Bean awkwardly waves at her. She shakes her head and goes off alone.
Seth strokes his chin, "The main issue is getting the Blade onboard. It doesn't necessarily HAVE TO be them, but I don't know if anyone else around here has the...experience or the drive to fight. No offence."
Tommy offers, "If the fight is taken to the digital realm, then the Nosferatu would be willing to step up. Physically, maybe. I'll have to talk to me buddies about this. But, I'm in." His sickly eyes sparkle. The mask hides the rest of his deformed face.
Seth nods and then asks, "And the rest of you?"
Vizier Mohammed adjusts the sleeves of his thawb and smooths out some creases, "The Ministry will have to do much maneuvering with our Clan as a whole." He rubs his cheek and ponders on that thought. He shakes his head.
Seth concedes, "Well, we're willing to play ball, Mr. Khan."
Absalom speaks up, "The Assamites were not the only ones who were driven out of Dubai by our foes. The Malkavians suffered as much. As such, I am certain that there are those who would be intrigued by the prospect of...vengeance." The Elder's eyes look determined.
Seth firmly nods, "That's good to hear. Mark? Seb?"
Mark clicks his tongue, "Hey, don't get me wrong. I ain't part of the SI fan club. And...after seeing the footage you showed us, I shudder to think what they'd do to Kindred." His lips quiver just thinking about it.
He shakes his head repeatedly, "Just--just thinking about it gives me the creeps!" he rubs his hands together and exhales sharply.
He continues, "Anyways, I REALLY dunno how useful us Ventrue are gonna be. They're...we're all high-rollers, really important kinda people, y'know? And as I said: my finances are kinda murky right now."
The High Priest shrugs indifferently, "Well, we'll find a use for you and your people when the time's right, Mr. Kincaid."
Mark thanks the Setite with a tight smile.
The Toreador Primogen dusts some imaginary dirt off his clothes, "Most of my...'people', if you can even call 'em that, are fashionistas- models, execs, photographers, designers, and so on. A select few, and I mean A FEW, would be more than willing to aid the Ministry, NOT the Blade."
He points at the Typhonist, "Get that clear. And it won't necessarily be the financial or martial kind of aid--"
Paul cuts in, frowning, "Then what the hell kind of 'aid' will it be?!"
Seb scoffs, "Don't fucking interrupt me. As I was saying..." he shifts around in his seat, "It'll be the running interference kind of aid. That's what most of my models do anyway- pose and show off shit on runways or whatever."
The Harpy mutters, "Well, that's better than nothing. Hey, Seth! I carry a gun with me. Concealed, of course. I'd be more than willing to help out where needed."
Seth slightly bows his head, "Thank you, Mr. Gorsky. Paul."
He comments, "I know we're not quite on the same page about certain matters, but the main thing is we get rid of the SI threat in this country. After hearing about their...rampage through Dubai, let's just say that I'd hate to see that replicated here."
Mr. Bean asks, "Why not ask the other surrounding Domains for help? Wouldn't the Tremere in Abu Dhabi be willing to pitch in?"
Seth shakes his head, "I would trust the Usurpers as far as I could throw them. No. We have to do this our selves. Relying on outside help would only...complicate matters. Needlessly."
Absalom opines, "Unwise, but I can understand your reasoning for doing so. The Ministry has an...unyielding grip on the affairs of this city. You do not wish to upset that balance, yes?"
The High Priest plainly nods his head, "In a manner of speaking, yes. Those of my own Clan would need a little convincing, but you leave internal matters to me, Absalom." He nods his head with assurance and confidence.
Absalom warns, "Just know, that without Prince or Sheriff in this Domain, you play a very dangerous game, Viper."
He sits there like a stone statue, continuing, "In the absence of any legitimate figure of authority and power, those of a more...sinister and ambitious nature and disposition may use such an opening to further their own goals and agendas."
Sebastian scoffs, "Who? You Elders are so paranoid, honestly--"
Absalom shoots the Toreador a single glance and he immediately stops talking. His eyes go wide and he gulps. He averts his gaze as well.
Absalom remarks, "I see and sense much in you, Epicurean."
Seb shoots back, "Fuck's that supposed to mean?"
The Malkavian Primogen doesn't answer. He turns his head aside and folds his arms. He certainly does love being all ominous, doesn't he? Seth rolls his eyes and exhales sharply.
Paul quips, "Jesus. What is it gonna take to convince you people, huh? A fucking pile of ashes on the doorsteps of our Havens? Buildings burning to the ground?!"
He rises up, passion reddening his pale face, "For god's sake, Final Death is staring us down! You saw what those fucking maniacs did to those people in the morgue! And those were mortals who had NOTHING to do with us! NOTHING AT ALL!"
He gesticulates, "How do you think the SI will treat Kindred?!" he points to the TV, but the footage has ended.
Mark and Tommy gulp in unison. Sebastian sighs, "Yeah, yeah..."
The Vizier urges the Harpy to calm down, "Please, habibi. Calm yourself. We must be rational about this..."
Paul claps back, "You...you can't even stand for YOUR OWN GODDAMN CLAN and you're telling ME to calm down?! Don't even talk to me about this, you fucking hypocrite!" he folds his arms and sits down, annoyed and frustrated.
Seth calmly addresses Paul and the others, "We have to play the long game here, but we also have to be realistic about what we're gonna be up against in the coming nights. We all have our respective parts to play, of that I'm sure."
He reminds the group, "We have to pick our battles wisely. Find out ways to draw the enemy out, while also ensuring the security and well-being of ourselves and our own."
Mr. Bean humbly inquires, "And you, Seth? Wh--What are you gonna be doing?"
The room grows still. Everyone is waiting on Seth's answer to that simple question.
Seth's eyes dart around. He eventually answers, "I will do my best to provide support...of a spiritual nature during the Blade's upcoming struggles." He avoids making eye contact.
Mark gasps, "Spiritual support? Um...OK, I guess?"
Paul sighs in exasperation and buries his face in his hand.
Seb whistles a tune, "Yeeeah, great."
Vizier Mohammed praises Seth by saying, "A noble endeavor. Truly befitting of the High Priest of Al-Kushraf city." The smile on his face looks more forced than usual.
Paul reluctantly adds, "I mean, you know best, Seth. You ARE the High Priest, after all. As much as you constantly deny it, you're the closest this Domain has to an authority figure that people respect...err...mostly respect."
Absalom adds, "It is a good place to begin. I would propose that the Malkavians work independently of the Blade. There are numerous reasons for this, which I can divulge to you privately."
Seth agrees, "Sure thing. Heh, the Blade didn't really get along with many back in Dubai, huh?"
Absalom vaguely responds, "Hmm. They do not hold a very high regard for our Clan's unique insights. They tend to be rather...different in their approach to matters of Unlife. Like many of you here, they are still young, very hot-headed, and prone to reckless impulses."
Seth's eyebrows shoot up, "Hmm, I see. A fair assessment, I suppose. Then again, maybe young, hot-headed, and prone to reckless impulses is exactly what we need now, heh."
Tommy raises his hand, "Aren't you forgetting a wee someone, pal?"
Seth looks confused, "Who?"
Tommy sighs, sounding very strained and exasperated, "The Caitiff! For feck's sake, pal! They got no proper representation in this...Council of ours."
Seth responds, "The squeaky wheel gets the grease. The Caitiff question will have to be dealt with at another time. Still, if we do manage to uncover N0S4A2's identity, then...who knows, perhaps the Caitiff could play an active role?"
Paul snarks, "Yeah, sure...uncovering the identity of 1 racecar driver is somehow gonna make the Clanless in this city wanna play ball with us." He snorts derisively.
Tommy argues, "Aye, Harpy's got a point there- even if we uncovered the person under that helmet, it's nae gonnae do shite. Your Clan needs to be serious about opening up talks with the Caitiff."
Absalom callously opines, "The Caitiff are not also known as Trash for no reason. They are mistakes and savages living in filth and misery. They flounder about and act like unruly and barbaric fools."
Mr. Bean sinks deeper into his chair. He seems to want to hide. He shivers in fear, unable to speak. His lips quiver uncontrollably, even after the Elder has stopped speaking.
Tommy objects to such statements, "Nae be sayin' that shite, ya fucking Madman."
Seth intervenes, "Now, now. No need to get all antsy. I'll think about visiting that half-done apartment building where the Caitiff are known to congregate at. Um...where was it again? Hm, never mind. I'll look it up later."
He pauses, "But, we really shouldn't get too distracted here, folks. The Second Inquisition is a very real, present danger. If we don't deal with them now, then...well, I needn't spell it out for you. I just have to gesture to Dubai and the ashes of Prince Angela Whiteford."
Mr. Bean informs the others, "Before...Absalom discovered me, I uh...used to live among the Caitiff. I had no idea who my Sire is...or was. They're good people there, but they're really misguided and uh..." he trails off, unable to complete that sentence.
Absalom pats Mr. Bean's back and gives him a stern look, a look not of contempt but of a stern guardian/mentor figure.
Mr. Bean quietly mouths, "Thanks."
Absalom speaks for his charge, "His mind is still adjusting to the truths of his origin. I myself have visited that miserable apartment building where these Unbound are known to gather." He sounds genuinely perplexed and disgusted.
The Elder goes on, "It was by chance that I found this one. The rest, perhaps, Mr. Bean can share with you on his own time."
Seth chimes in, "Yeah, sure. Well, it's all quite relative anyway."
He concludes with a banal remark, "At the end of the night, we all make our own truths and live by it. He says this, she says that. And it all becomes a big jumble of confusion and meaninglessness."
Paul cuts in, "This is not some sermon at your cult, Seth." His tone is annoyed and weary.
Tommy jests, "Oh, nae worry. I knows all I need to know about your wee...compound. But, I'm no fud. I know me boundaries."
Seth gives the Nossie a stern look, "You better. What goes on in my compound is really not the concern of anyone here." His tone is firm and leaves no room for arguing.
Seth finally ends by stating, "Well, anyway, I hope and pray that we all remember the main takeaway in all of this is: Al-Kushraf city must not fall like Dubai. It's not an option anymore. We HAVE TO take the fight to the SI. And what better opportunity than the Blade of Haqim?"
The meeting comes to an end. Everyone stands up and exchanges cold handshakes. Some are genuine, whilst others are a mere formality, a sort of ritual of civility that everyone present here seems to engage in.
Ms. Kawasaki doesn't bother to return to the group. She is leaning over a table at the bar area. She simply admires the booze on display and constantly looks around, thinking that her old "friends" from the Web of Knives are about to sneak up on her at any given moment.
A few Kindred sit on some couches in a lounge-like area. The lights are dim. The floors are carpeted. The venetian blinds are shut. Some are chatting, some are alone. The music from the speakers is at a pleasant volume, not too loud and not too quiet.
Tommy crouches down and feels the carpet with his deformed hand. He remarks, "Aye, gonnae be getting something like this doon in the sewers. It's so...soft. Ah..."
Paul comes over and joins him. The Harpy rubs his foot against the thick red carpet, "Heh, thinking of doing some sewer-home renovations, huh?"
"Aye."
"So, what do think of all this, Tommy? What do you REALLY think?"
"I think it's 50% fucking daft and 50% fucking bold. The Nosferatu are willing to get involved and get dirty, but--"
"Your people are gonna want something more out of it. Like what?"
Tommy answers, "Secrets. Those fucking cunts are sitting on a ton of them. We wanna know what's what. We wannae know what's floating about the gaffe."
Paul chuckles, "So, the Nossies will work for info, then. Gotcha."
Tommy nods, "Aye, you got it. You understand us better than most, Harpy."
"Sure I do. I know that Cryptophilia is your Clan's Compulsion. You could probably skip a meal for the whole night, but you'd go absolutely nuts if you don't have a big, juicy, secretive secret to play around with, eh? Heheh."
Tommy laughs along, "Aye! Hahaha! True. We don't part with secrets easily, unless it's in exchange for bigger ones!"
Paul pats the Nossie's shoulder, "Yeah, I get it. As Harpy, I really do. Secrets are like...well, they're as valuable as blood on nights like these, huh?"
"Aye. Just as, pal. Just as."
Mark and Sebastian talk about this and that. It's mostly banal stuff. Sebastian asks about Mark's anime hoodie. Mark tells him that it's from some show about people with weird powers fighting aliens and stuff like that.
Sebastian isn't too interested in it, but he asks if he's willing to come by a few parties that he's throwing sometime this week. Mark declines. He says he has his own business (and parties) to attend to.
Absalom and Seth talk about this and that. The Malkavian Elder helps to "optimize" the routes of the Circulatory System. Being an expert in the Blood Trade, he also offers a few streamlining tips so that everything runs smoothly and on time.
Seth, for the most part, takes these suggestions in stride, but he also politely and humbly questions the viability of certain options and choices.
Absalom mentions that he ran a Blood Bank back in Chicago, so he knows how this shit works. After Embracing his Childe, a brutish police officer, he left the city. He felt called to Dubai. This was somewhere in the 1970s.
He attributes his arrival to Dubai to the Beckoning- the call that many an Elder vampire receives, urging them to a Domain or to an individual that requires their presence.
Thanks to the Beckoning, Kindred all over the world are being shuffled around like playing cards. For some, it is a random affair. Others may see a pattern.
Once Absalom is done speaking with the High Priest, he joins Mr. Bean, who has been patiently waiting in the lobby area. He runs a hand through his bleached hair and rubs his chin. He sighs deeply.
Mr. Bean notices the troubled look on Absalom's face. He inquires about it, "Uh, is...everything alright, Absalom?"
"Yes."
The 2 begin to walk towards the exit.
Mr. Bean stops at a sign that points to a buffet, "Hey...whoa, wait."
Absalom stops in his tracks and follows Mr. Bean's finger, "Hmm? What is it?" the Elder's voice is cold and indifferent.
"Can we...can we stop by the buffet quickly? I'm kinda curious." Mr. Bean's eyes are wide.
With a sigh, Absalom follows an eager and curious Mr. Bean to the hotel restaurant. A few guests and a few staff members are here. The lights are bright and the walls are painted in warm colors. There are paintings of the Middle East hanging from the walls.
It's tasteful.
The guests are either in office casuals or in touristy clothing. The waiters and waitresses are dressed in white and black. Most are women. They're wearing black hijabs.
It's a relatively peaceful and orderly environment. No one is causing a fuss. Everyone is happy, as far as Mr. Bean can tell.
He wistfully remarks, "It uh...it reminds me of something..."
Absalom looks on with indifference, "Of what?"
Mr. Bean swallows and explains, "Um...back when I was a mortal, we...the worship team and I used to go to nice restaurants after church service. The pastor always insisted on it. It was nice." He smiles to himself.
Absalom pointedly asks, "And now?"
Mr. Bean snaps out of it. He blinks and looks around. He shakes his head, "I don't...I don't really eat. B--Blood is pretty much 'it' for us, right, Abs?"
"Yes."
Mr. Bean smiles for a split second, "Y'know, after my...Embrace...I prayed."
"It is safe to assume no answer came. Do you still...believe, Mr. Bean?"
The young Malk shrugs, "I dunno, Abs. I dunno. Do you think God or whoever accepts us err...Cainites for what we are?"
"I care very little for the notions of God. I have walked this world for centuries. I have seen men do many things and I have done other things myself." He looks around, a stony expression on his pale face.
Mr. Bean solemnly nods, "Hmm, yeah, I guess so. I do miss playing my guitar, though. Too bad our place has a really strict 'no-noise' rule after 6 PM. I'd really love to jam out." He scratches the back of his neck.
Absalom stares at Mr. Bean. He's silent for a few moments, "Yes...that is unfortunate." He turns away and heads towards the exit.
Mr. Bean quickly follows after him.
As the 2 Malks are leaving, Absalom lifts his chin and observes, "Even now, I sense that you have certain doubts about your destiny."
Mr. Bean bites his lower lip apprehensively, "Yeah, man. I--I mean, I know I gotta do it and all, but..."
The Elder swiftly interjects, "Do not permit doubts, hesitations, or fears. They lead to mistakes and indecisiveness. Mistakes and indecisiveness lead to failure. That is costly. Sometimes even deadly." He narrows his icy eyes at the younger Seer.
Mr. Bean blinks repeatedly. He nervously replies, "Oh...yeah, I get it."
He gathers his composure and resolutely tells his adoptive Sire, "I am ready for what comes next. It's fate, right? She...she's gotta go, right, Abs?"
"Yes. It is not just fate, it is your destiny. And as your adoptive Sire, I will do my utmost to aid you in this journey. You have my assurances." The Malkavian Primogen holds out a hand.
Mr. Bean grasps it and shakes it firmly. Their eyes meet, "I trust you, Absalom."
"Likewise, my charge."
The 2 vampires leave the hotel and return to the streets of Al-Kushraf city.
Ms. Kawasaki is leaning against the bar counter. For obvious reasons, she doesn't order anything. She merely watches the bartender go about his duties.
After a while, Gallagher approaches her. He leans over the counter and calls the bartender over, "Gin! The stronger, the better."
The bartender obliges, but he asks Ms. Kawasaki if she wants anything as well. She scowls at him, and he scurries off to fetch the requested drink.
Ms. Kawasaki glances at Gallagher. His face is smug. She frowns and sizes him up, "You're stupid. It has no effect on our bodies."
The Setite simply shrugs, "Big deal. Tasted like piss even when we were mortals, so no real loss there. Still, it's nice to just...pretend that all is fine and dandy for a little bit, yeah?" he annoyingly grins at her.
She rolls her eyes, "Whatever. You're an idiot. What the hell are you doing here anyway? Shouldn't you be off roughing some bozos up or something?"
Gallagher softly chuckles, "I like you. So...what are you?"
"The fuck's that supposed to mean?"
Gallagher gets all up in her bidness and scrutinizes her closely, "What, like Chinese? Jap? Thai?" his tone is playful. His expression is lecherous.
Ms. Kawasaki pushes his face away, "Ugh! Need I remind you, Gallagher, that I always carry a tantō that's capable of splitting your 'roided-up body in fucking half even before the drinks get ready." Her expression is dark.
Gallagher shrugs again, "Oooh, I'm scared." He mockingly shudders and shakes.
The mortal bartender comes back with the drink. Gallagher takes a long swig of the gin. He smacks his lips in satisfaction. It's immediately followed by a bitter wince and a sour grimace.
"Blurgh. Jesus. Tastes like fucking ash."
"Idiot."
Gallagher shakes his head and leans in closer to whisper, "You wanna see my tantō? You wanna...play with it?"
The Banu Haqim scoffs at him, disgusted, "Pfft. Yeah, right. That's another thing we can't do. And even if we still had those feelings, you're the last fucking guy on Earth I'd hop into bed with."
Gallagher laughs at her, "Oh, please! You know you want a piece of this. C'mon, ching-chong, don't play coy. I see how you look at me. You wanna get in my pants and see what's in there. I know it."
Ms. K's face scrunches up in sheer and utter contempt. She wants to stab and slice him, but that would just get everyone's attention. She doesn't want that. It's best to just ignore this asshole.
Gallagher goes on, "Hey, I'll tell you what- you let me have a go at that--"
Ms. Kawasaki tightly grips Gallagher's arm, but stops short of twisting it. Through gritted teeth, she warns, "Don't fuck with me. I've taken out guys twice your size while I was younger...a LOT younger."
Gallagher wrestles his arm out of her iron grip. He looks her dead in the eye and says, "You're hot when you're angry. And I could only imagine a hotter, younger version of you. Whoof!" he then winks at her and walks away, sipping on his gin.
"Fucking prick," she mutters.
Meanwhile...
John has long since awoken from the slumber of the day. He's all dressed up and ready to head out when he gets a text message from Praveen. It reads: "Hello, Mr. Suarez."
John texts back: "Master-P. Something the matter? How's the dojo? Hoping to start classes again soon."
Master-P replies: "Some leakage was found in the bathrooms, so it will take a little longer. Classes are indefinitely delayed."
Frustrated, John clicks his tongue: "We're still getting paid, right?"
"I cannot say for certain, my friend. The business side of things has been very...hazy these past few months."
"Will I or will I not be getting paid?"
"Arey, John? Kya hai, bhai? Money is not everything, no? Besides, it has only been few weeks since u started and u r already demanding raise. It is not fair on me, no?"
John shuts his eyes and contains his anger as best as he can. Once subsided, he replies: "I need the money. Rent is due soon."
Praveen texts: "Then find another job, no? U know in a city like Al-Kushraf, u need minimum 2 jobs to get by."
John sighs deeply: "Master-P, do you have any more private clients I could train?"
"Unfortunately, no. That was, as u americans say, once in blue moon opportunity."
The Assamite is really getting desperate: "Is there really nothing else? No friends of yours or fam that would be interested in some Kenpo?"
Praveen takes a while to text back: "Oye, John! u are a bloody genius, man!"
"????"
"Remember I told you my in-laws were @ my home?"
"Yeah."
"Well, how would u like to come and show them some Kenpo moves? We could do some light sparring 2gether, after u can stay for dinner. My wife also got plenty of indian sweets. Bloody delicious stuff, man!"
John's fingers glide across the virtual keyboard: "Sounds great, but I work for money, not exposure."
"Achchha, Achchha (Hindi: Good, Good). Fair enough. I will give u little bit for ur troubles, Mr. Suarez :-)"
John lightly smirks: "Then, you have yourself a deal. I might be a bit late cuz there's some issues with my car."
"NP. Here's my address. Im excited 4 u to meet the fam."
Praveen texts John the location. The Assamite sees that it's about 25 minutes from his Haven. On the way, he grabs a neck to bite into. After slaking his thirst, he licks the wound shut, and leaves the (still-living) person by the side of the road.
He's still unsure about how he'll make it through this month, but at least he's got something to look forward to tonight- SI or no SI, vamps like him have an Unliving to make.
Not all vampires live in castles or fancy penthouses. Some live in humble homes and apartments, where their mortal neighbors are none the wiser. Others live in abandoned warehouses or underground lairs.
Many, even those who are centuries old, work. Some in stuffy offices, others in unsafe factories. The blood they suck is a necessity for them to get by.
On the way to Praveen's house, John stops by Svetlana's Haven. His Childe has decided to stay in tonight. She's currently looking at babysitting agencies online, as well as the nearby job listings.
Svetlana sourly remarks, "This...this is VERY difficult! You cannot simply walk in and ask for job." She sighs deeply. Her face is paler than usual.
John reminds her, "It's a lot more dangerous now, Svetlana."
Svetlana bitterly clicks her tongue, "Da. I know, I know. But, if I find agency, you will write me letter of...how you call it?"
John nods his head, "Recommendation? Absolutely. I'll always vouch for you." The sincerity in his tone is apparent.
Svetlana weakly smiles, "Dyakuyu (UA: Thank you). You are good man, John. Good Sire also."
John equably says, "It's the least I can do for you, Svetlana. You're a good friend and a better person than I'll ever be." He means every word of it.
Svetlana looks at him for a moment, her green eyes sparkling with concern and gratitude, "I am grateful to have you, John." She reaches out and gently squeezes his hand.
"Thanks. I don't know what I'd do without you around."
"Me also, John. Are you...ready to fight SI?"
John inhales deeply, "As ready as I'll ever be, heh. You?"
Svetlana resolutely nods, "Da. Everything you have thought to me, I remember. We fight for what is just. This is not only about us, da?"
"Right. Absolutely."
The Assamite clenches her fist tightly, "We will Judge them. All."
John squeezes his Childe's shoulder and slowly nods, "Indeed...the Blade will Judge them all. But, do you ever get this...feeling deep down that there's more to this? Something bigger going on?"
Svetlana raises a single brow, "Hmm, how so?"
"Yeah. I dunno. Maybe I'm just grasping at straws here--"
Svetlana cuts in, "Do not worry, John. I trust you. I will be there with you. Always. You do not have to do this alone."
John corrects her, "As much as I appreciate that, you're not a Fledgling anymore. You're a Neonate now."
Svetlana's expression slightly falters, but she remains confident, "Da, but I am still young in the eyes of many Cainites."
"I know, Svetlana. And I don't want to put you in any unnecessary danger."
Svetlana looks him dead in the eye, "But, this is about justice, no? About doing good?"
"Exactly. I just--are YOU ready? Honestly, do you feel...off about something?"
"'Off'? How? Also, I am very much ready to fight against SI. After what they did in Dubai, they must pay!"
John explains, "I was really feeling...different. Like something is coming, or something is gonna happen." He doesn't quite know how to put it into words.
(Oh, if only he knew).
He adds, "Even right now, I FEEL like...there's just something about all of this that seems so...off. Heh, it's really hard to explain and--and I don't wanna get you too agitated by it. You've clearly got other things on your mind right now."
Svetlana shakes her head and reassures, "Is no issue. I will help you to find out answers to these questions."
John gives her a tight smile, "Thanks, Svetlana. I really appreciate it. Now, I gotta go. Master-P's got some relatives for me to meet."
She waves him off, "Do pobachennya (UA: Goodbye)!"
After he's off, she goes back to looking through more job listings and agency websites. She hopes to find something before the night's end. She does have the expertise when it comes to taking care of the weans, that much is certain.
What she lacks, however, is higher education, consistent records, and a reliable reference. These are things that many prospective employers would be wary of, especially in jobs involving children.
Svetlana could, in theory, pass the background check as she's only been a Kindred for about 5 years now. If the prospective agency is willing to overlook her lack of proper paperwork, then maybe, just maybe she stands a chance.
She could even forge the necessary documents, but it might come across as too suspicious or fishy. Then again, what's the worst that could happen?
Still, forging stuff (even if necessary) doesn't seem like something the Assamite Neonate is comfortable with. If she had a kid, she'd no doubt want to make sure that the babysitter is a trustworthy, dependable, and decent person with legitimate documentation.
Ms. Bobrov has a strong sense of justice about her now that she's a Banu Haqim. Given her background, she's always been like this, but this sense of right and wrong became more apparent after her Embrace.
Svetlana is absolutely READY to Judge the unjust, with those of the Blade by her side.
As for John himself, he's making his way to Praveen's place. He feels weirdly anxious and paranoid as he walks down the street. Something just doesn't sit right with him, but he can't quite put his finger on it.
Maybe he's still jumpy from last night's SI attack? He even feels the world going slower than he usually feels it. The sounds around him seem distant. He finds himself constantly checking over his shoulder.
It's not the fear of another SI attack. No. This is something else. Something...more sinister. He swallows and tries to clear his mind.
He tells himself, "Don't be stupid."
The feeling of the world around him being slower is a side effect of his Celerity Discipline. Most users can get quite twitchy, jumpy, and hyper as a result of that Discipline. They're very light on their feet and move with blinding speed.
John is able to somewhat control it, but his senses are still sharper than usual. It's like everything is moving through water at a snail's pace.
Immediately, his mind goes back to the wise words of his mentor, Dr. George Fateh, "Slow down, my friend. Don't let Celerity run you. Control it like you control your Beast."
John stops in his tracks, closes his eyes, and forces some air into his lifeless lungs. He exhales sharply and repeats. After a few seconds, the world around him begins to return to its (somewhat) normal pace.
He sighs in relief, "I can't afford to have these lapses anymore..." he then continues to make his way to Praveen's house.
Praveen's house is quite big. The walls are painted blue and there are curtains covering the windows. The front yard is quite small and the grass is a bit overgrown. The roofing is in good condition.
There are a few potted plants by the front door. The neighborhood is pretty quiet. Some people are either getting home or going to work at this time of the night.
The door to Praveen's house is solid wood and features a few symbolic carvings. John rings the doorbell. He waits for about 30 seconds before the door opens. A short, dark-skinned, plump woman stands there.
She wears a bright yellow saree and has a red bindi on her forehead. She's also wearing bangles and a nose ring.
John politely introduces himself, "Uh...John. I work with, err, for Praveen."
The woman calls out to Praveen in Hindi and he comes rushing down. Praveen looks to be in his 40s, his hair is disheveled, and he's wearing a white kurta and dark brown pants. He smells of aftershave.
Praveen grins from ear to ear and embraces John, "Oye! Come in! Come in!" The Assamite awkwardly accepts the hug and follows him into his home.
The inside of the home is quite grandiose. The white tiles are shiny and look like they've been mopped quite recently. The walls are also painted in white, but there are some decorative paintings hanging from them.
Aside from the white walls, everything else is painted in warm colors, such as yellows, browns, and reds.
Praveen leads John to a dining table. The table cloth is red and there are several open boxes of Indian sweets and snacks on it. There's Mysore Pak, Pedas, Laddoos, Kaju katlis, and another box full of shiny orange Jalebis.
Yummy!
The mortal tells John, "Here, try some of these." He points to some Burfis on the side.
John politely declines, "Uh, no thanks."
"What? Why not?" Praveen looks confused.
John makes up a convincing excuse, "I already ate. I eat quite early, actually. And uh...yeah, that's it." He does sound quite shaky.
Praveen shrugs, "Fair enough. Still, please do take some of this before you leave?" he smiles at John, expectantly.
John weakly returns the smile, "Sure thing."
A man brings a pot of what looks like veg pulao and sets it down on the table. A few minutes later, another woman comes out of the kitchen with a bowl of red curry. They both bow to Praveen, who bows back.
He says something to them in Hindi and they walk away.
John curiously asks, "Your in-laws?"
"Nahi (Hindi: No). Cousins. They live just down the street. Aao, Aao (Hindi: Come, come), let me introduce you to the rest of the fam, OK?"
John plainly shrugs and goes along with Praveen. The woman he saw earlier is Praveen's sister, Meera. Meera's husband, Anil, works as a truck driver. He is currently out of town.
Their son, Arjun, is about 5-years-old. He is quite shy and timid. He curls up when he sees the vampire and refuses to say even a simple "Hello".
It's often rumored that certain children have some awareness of the Kindred. Their reactions vary from fear to indifference to wide-eyed curiosity.
The rest of the family has no such reaction to John. They're all smiles and friendliness. John is a bit put-off by it, but he doesn't let it get to him. Praveen's wife, Nidhi, is also a very pleasant woman.
She's about Praveen's age, has dark brown eyes, and wears heavy makeup. She wears a purple saree. Her shiny black hair is tied in a bun.
After some small talk and chit-chat, Praveen gets right down to business. He tells the group, "So, this is John here. Uh...John Suarez, actually, right?"
"Yeah. Uh...hey." The Assamite Neonate awkwardly waves at "the fam".
Praveen's mother-in-law, Mrs. Gupta, peers at him through her rimmed glasses. She keeps saying that John is very handsome and asks if he's married.
When he answers "No," she says that he should hurry up and get a wife.
Praveen asks where his daughter is. Nidhi says she's gone out with some friends.
Praveen grunts and wildly gesticulates, "Ach! Teenagers, my friend. Hmph, no bloody respect for their elders anymore. You didn't do all like this to your parents when you were a teenager, no?"
John answers, "Well, it was a long time ago. I was pretty much raised by my mother- she never really talked much about my dad, and...I never really bothered to ask her."
Praveen's expression changes. He looks sympathetic and somewhat regretful. He says, "Ah. I am sorry to hear that."
John shrugs and sighs, "It's alright. I was there for her till the very end."
Nidhi folds 1 leg over the other and leans forward, "What happened to her?"
For obvious reasons, John has to hold himself back from crying. His lips slightly quiver, "She...she um...refused medical attention. She was deeply religious and didn't really believe in any of it- even something as simple as going for a checkup."
With anguish on his face, he goes on, "I tried and tried to bring a doctor to see her, but she started praying in tongues and uh--just--never mind. It's not worth reliving again, sorry."
Praveen nods, feeling a bit sympathetic, "Yes. We must focus on the positive, eh?"
He pats John on the shoulder and looks him in the eye, "You have been through lots, no?"
"Yeah...yeah. I guess I have."
John didn't make that up. That's exactly what happened. His poor mom died of preventable causes due to her refusal to seek out even the most rudimentary forms of medical care. It was tragic.
It was also 1 of the most traumatic events in his mortal life.
Praveen quickly changes to something else, "But, you did respect her regardless of it all, right?"
Nidhi tells her hubby, "You should at least be grateful that you even have a daughter, haan (Hindi: yes)? At least she is making friends here, not like in Muscat."
Praveen grunts, "Hmph. At least she should've been here. That girl is always roaming around everywhere, Mr. Suarez. No sense of direction, she even--"
Nidhi shoots her husband a look. John lowers his head, not too keen on getting involved in any kind of familial drama over here. He's just here to show off some Kenpo, hopefully get paid, and leave.
Mrs. Gupta gives Praveen a stern look and he backs off. She says something to him in Hindi. He gets up to go and grab himself a bowl of some assorted nuts and fruits. The older woman smiles warmly at John.
Nidhi leans towards John and quietly tells him, "My husband has been having some issues with the dojo, so please understand if he seems a little on edge tonight, OK?"
John plainly smiles, "Sure thing."
Small talk is exchanged. John mentions that his dad was Mexican, that's probably 1 (of the many) reasons why his American mother rarely (if ever) spoke about him. John himself has only seen a handful of pictures of his parents.
He lost most of that after he had to flee Dubai.
After some more small talk and chitchat, John suggests that he and Praveen start with the demonstration.
Praveen springs up, eyes shining, teeth showing, "Yes! Let us do this!"
He excitedly rushes off to change into something more comfy. He calls John over to the living room area, where the space is wide enough.
The rest of the family sit on the plush sofas, whilst others sit on the floor. Little Arjun keeps his distance and has this permanently shy and uncomfortable expression on his face. His parent keeps him close.
Master Praveen is in some kind of a black karate uniform. John is in his usual jeans and casual mandarin collar shirt.
And, the demonstration goes well enough. Some people remark that John moves quite fast, almost like a blur (!) during some of the more complex sequences. John thanks them, but he says it's really not that hard to pick up.
After a few hours, John is paid a measly amount of dirhams for his efforts. Praveen says that it's simply the way things are at the moment. They part amicably.
The Assamite forces a smile, shakes hands (with many exclaiming how cold and clammy it feels), and goes on his "merry" way. It would appear that the rest of the fam has gotten a kick out of John and want him to come back sometime soon.
He's given a bit of food as well- a few servings of veg pulao and some spoonfuls of egg curry. Nidhi also packs an assortment of sweets in a small plastic container.
(Of course, the Assamite can't eat a thing there, so he figures he'll give it to his neighbors, or someone else entirely).
Svetlana, for her part, spends her night endlessly scrolling through agency websites, checking their requirements, and weighing her options. It's quite tedious stuff, but she has to find something a little better, otherwise it could mean the end of having a roof over her head.
John comes home about a couple hours later. He made sure to take longer routes and steer clear of any surveillance cams. Abdullah says he'll bring a mechanic over to check on John's perfectly serviceable car.
Svetlana takes a break from her computer. She gets up, groans, and stretches a few times. She pulls out her phone and sends Saoirse a text: "Hello, r u free?"
It takes a while for the Tremere to answer: "Sadly, no. Work's being an arse. Again. Why, something bothering u, macushla? Is it THAT, again?"
Svetlana types back: "Nyet, nyet. I just wanted to see how u r doing."
"Aww, someone's concerned ;-) I'm fine."
"What was that line from poem u sent me?"
"Some things are best explained in-person. Listen, I have 2 go now. We'll try 2 talk later. I have 2 get back or else...the boss will get angry and lose his shite."
"Ok. See you. Da. Bye." Svetlana's reply is immediate.
Saoirse's response is equally instant and consists of a few waving and heart emojis. It seems like Saoirse's boss really likes to keep his employees on a tight leash.
Despite working from the comfort of her Haven, Saoirse seems quite overworked.
Svetlana exhales deeply and goes back to what she was doing before. She thinks back to the time she arrived in the UAE. She was all alone, didn't know a single soul here, and only got into babysitting by sheer luck.
While she still drew breath, she made a few friends here and there- mostly the Russian- and Ukrainian-speaking crowd, and mostly women her age who were in a similar predicament. Sometimes they'd gather at a local restaurant for some chow. It was nice.
She was...mostly happy back then. Mostly.
Until, a bunch of SI fascists set off the bombs that killed everyone in the AJRT 5 years ago. Many of Svetlana's closer friends were killed in that explosion. Many of the children she knew by name and watched over were also tragically killed.
And in those 5 years since, it's been quite an overwhelming struggle for survival for the Banu Haqim Neonate. Following her emergency Embrace, she became quite close friends with Prince Angela Whiteford of Clan Gangrel.
The Dove Prince (as many called her) of Dubai was a beautiful, curvy woman in her late-30s. She was said to be the descendant of some of Australia's first convicts and migrants, while it was still a prison island.
She had this elegance and refinement about her. For a Clan that's often derided as "savage" and "beastly", she was generally soft-spoken, patient to a fault, and quite humble.
It was because of Prince Angela's kind nature that Svetlana was able to adjust to her new Unlife so much easier than many other Fledglings.
Back then, the Banu Haqim Fledgling even confided in the Feral about certain private matters. Prince Angela was very understanding and listened to every word without so much as interrupting. Her soft gray eyes were always kind, no matter how troubled a case.
Svetlana thought very highly of Prince Angela. The Prince's Childe, Santiago, is also quite a good chap. He managed to flee the attacks while Prince Angela brought time for a handful of her fellow Outlanders to escape.
He's currently with the surviving members of his Clan in Abu Dhabi. Prince Helmut Strauss was "kind" enough to open his Domain to them, but he refused entry to the Banu Haqim, citing old rivalries, antiquated feuds, and petty grudges.
And, that is how Svetlana, John, and the rest of the members of the Blade of Haqim found themselves in Al-Kushraf. They literally had to bolt out of the city when the attacks began.
The Malkavians tagged along, with Absalom negotiating a place for his fellow Mockers to reside in. Seth was quite happy to have them in the city. Of course he was.
(The rest of the survivors of the raid on Dubai dispersed here and there.)
Some time later...
Seth has just finished meditating in his near-dark room of his 2nd Haven. Edwin waits in the living room, expression quite hard and stony. He's on edge, but not necessarily nervous.
It's something else that's been bothering him.
The High Priest exits the room with his head held high and his body straight and stiff. His serpentine amber eyes glow brightly. He holds his snake cane in his hand, the emerald eyes on the snake's head seeming to stare right into Edwin's.
Seth tells him, "Ah, Edwin. How are things now? All settled?"
The Ghoul nervously swallows, "Yes, sir."
Seth saunters over and sits across his retainer, eyeing him like a hawk, "So? What is it that troubles you? Speak freely." There is a trace of warmth in his tone.
Edwin nervously clasps his hands together, "It's--it's nothing, sir."
Seth sharply observes, "You have some...reservations, some doubts over what you've seen me do the past few nights, hmm?"
Edwin doesn't dare dignify that with a response of any kind. Instead, he merely shakes his head from side to side.
A sinister smirk forms of the corners of Seth's mouth, "Good."
The Ghoul tries to say something, but it just comes out as a half-assed stutter.
Seth chuckles darkly at this, "My dear Edwin...everything I have done so far, everything that I'm about to do--"
He pauses for dramatic effect, "--has something greater behind it. And as my Ghoul, I expect only the best from you at all times, yes?" his expression is severe, his tone is demanding.
Edwin shakily nods, "Yes, sir. Always." He knows that's the only acceptable answer to give.
Just then, a merc raps his knuckles on the front door and calls out, "Boss? There's someone by the name of Yahya here to see you. Should we let him in or send him off?"
Seth's face scrunches in confusion, "Yahya? What's he doing here? Hmm, yeah, let him in. Bring him to me."
The mercenary bows his head and goes off to bring Mr. Yahya As'ad Najjar.
Seth wonders out loud, "I thought he'd be back in Cairo by now. What's he still doing here?"
Edwin bows his head and takes his leave, feeling that his Domitor and the Typhonist scholar have some private and sensitive matters to discuss. The Ghoul decides to take a walk along the compound, looking at all the cultists still milling about at this time of the night.
The Setite Ancilla arrives in Seth's Haven and is promptly led to the living room. The lights are suitably dim, but not so dim that neither man has to strain their eyes. Seth is in a simple white robe with 3/4ths sleeves.
Yahya is wearing an embroidered thawb with a turban wrapped around his head. He's wearing a different ankh necklace than the last time he and Seth saw each other.
As always, he's clutching a few heavy tomes in his hands. He sets them on the coffee table and bows his head reverentially, "High Priest."
Seth remains on guard, "Mr. Najjar. I...didn't expect to see you here. Aren't you supposed to be back in Cairo by now?"
Yahya faintly chuckles, "Ah, Mr. Steale. You know us Setites. We say 1 thing, but we obscure it with the intent of doing 10 other things, 5 of which are misdirections, 3 of which are redirections, and the other is to create the impression of misdirection."
Seth chuckles along, "Yep, the Setite way, heh. It is what it is. So, what brings you all the way out here?"
Yahya answers, "Intent, Mr. Steale."
"Might I ask what that intent is?"
"Yes. You may."
The High Priest side-eyes his fellow Typhonist, "Well, go on."
The Setite Ancilla leans back and lifts his chin slightly, "I see you have still refused to make any effort to find Sybil. Why is that?"
Seth gets a bit on-edge, "What is it to you, anyway? As I told you the last time we talked about this: it's likely she was Beckoned off to some remote part of the world."
"You also told me that some claim she is already here, waiting for the right opportunity to seize Praxis and become the Prince of this city."
Seth purses his lips, "I was simply telling you a few rumors I hear every now and then. Me telling that to you doesn't mean I personally buy into it myself."
Yahya frowns slightly, his wrinkly face scrunches up a little, "The High Priest of Al-Kushraf city relaying such rumors, hmph. Tell me, then, what do you personally 'buy into' regarding Sybil, hmm?"
Seth sighs and rubs his eyes, "Look, if this is why you came here to see me--"
The Setite Ancilla interjects, "I have actually been conducting an investigation of my own into the disappearance of Sybil."
Seth cocks his head, "You what?" He quickly catches himself, clears his throat, and apologizes, "S--Sorry."
Yahya lightly smirks, hoping that he's got Seth ensnared into whatever trap he has spun out for him, "Indeed, I have. I've found something quite interesting..."
"Well, don't leave me hanging here. I'm uh...interested in finding Sybil as much as you are."
"I'm sure you are. What I've found all points back to 2 people in particular."
Seth lazily waves, "Who?"
Yahya smugly answers, "You and your Sire. Seth Steale and Rafael De La Cruz."
Seth's leg twitches involuntarily, but he maintains his cool, "Oh, is that so? And, what's your source?"
"Simply talking, Mr. Steale, to our fellow Typhonists. You will be surprised what people are saying."
Seth stifles a scoff, "Oh, really? And, what are they saying?"
"They say that you and your Sire were quite close to Sybil, even more than you had initially let on to me and some others."
"That's..." Seth stops halfway through, struggling to find the words.
The High Priest blurts out, "Ridiculous! Why would you believe the word of a bunch of low-ranked members?"
Yahya simply shrugs, "I see it as nothing but the truth. The Followers of Set might see fit to lie to others, but we do not lie to each other." He firmly holds the High Priest's gaze.
Seth grumbles and looks away, "OK. So? What if that IS true?" his tone is getting increasingly terse, his temper is slowly rising.
Yahya folds his hands and rests them on his lap, "I'm willing to give you a chance to tell your side of the story, High Priest." He smirks at the Setite Neonate.
Seth dismissively waves his hand, "There is nothing to say. Sybil's been missing for decades."
The Setite Ancilla scholar points out, "If she were, as you claimed, Beckoned away, we would have at least heard something from her."
Seth bitterly chuckles, "Yeah, sure, she's gonna write us a letter from Idaho or wherever and mail it to us. Pfft."
Yahya inquires, "Why the sarcasm, High Priest? It is unwise to leave this city, this Domain, without proper leadership. After what happened in Dubai, there are those that undoubtedly wish to see a similar fate fall upon Al-Kushraf. What would happen then?"
Seth deflects, "That's what we have the Primogen Council for, right? Besides, we're already readying ourselves up for some major moves against the Second Inquisition presence in this city."
Yahya shakes his head, "No, no. I am not worried about those animals. They put too much reliance on their technology and military prowess. Even the weakest Fledgling could put an end to them in no time."
Seth takes a deep breath, "Either way, they gotta go."
Yahya calmly tells Seth, "If Sybil were truly missing, as you have claimed, then it is a shame."
"Why?"
"Certainly, you cannot be as stupid as you are acting."
Seth angrily grumbles, "You don't know me or my Sire, so don't make any assumptions, alright?" his fangs are almost out, but not quite.
Yahya is quite unperturbed by that, "As you have told me. Be that as it may, an Elder like Sybil is the only one who can truly unite the Domain. I do not know how you will manage to drive the SI from this city without the appropriate leadership."
Seth calmly claps back, "We have it handled. The Blade of Haqim will be doing most of the...dirty work. The rest of us will just have to sit back, watch, and reap the rewards of an SI-free Domain."
He proudly adds, "Hell, we're planning on ridding this entire country of the Second Inquisition by the time this is all over. I'll have you know that I am spearheading this entire thing. I've even got competent people doing grunt work for us."
Yahya is unimpressed, "So you say, so you say."
Seth sniffs, "Sybil or no Sybil, Unlife goes on. We're gonna get rid of the SI. Maybe she might come back, maybe she might get caught in the crossfire, hell, maybe she's been a prisoner all these years and is waiting to be freed by us, heh."
Yahya lets that sink in for a bit. He then says, "You make a strong point, High Priest. And if she is held captive, then why hasn't anyone embedded within the agencies of the SI told us anything about it, hmm?"
"Heck if I know. Do we even have people in the SI?"
Yahya nods gently, "Yes. Many. When the Mukhabarat back in Egypt captured me, they tortured me for many nights in an attempt to get information about something unrelated out of me, but I told them nothing."
He adds, his expression hardening, "At least the holding cells were devoid of any light, natural or artificial. If anything, I used it as an opportunity to find out more about their internal operations."
"Impressive. How the hell did you get free of the freaking Mukhabarat? I heard those guys don't play around. They pull out people's fingernails."
Yahya holds up his left hand, all the fingers devoid of their fingernails, "They did try, Mr. Steale."
"But--they--how did they take the--" he's too shocked to speak.
The Setite scholar answers, "I still have use of my claws. Worry not, but I am not one so easily given to violence, even in the most...extenuating of circumstances."
"Hmm, me too."
Yahya smiles weakly, "Yes, indeed. It is only our faith in Typhon that keeps us going, yes?"
Seth shrugs, "As the High Priest, I'm bound to agree. Yeah, absolutely. That and sheer force of will."
"But of course."
After a brief moment of silence, the High Priest asks, "So, what are your plans now, Mr. Najjar?"
"For now, I simply want to help. I have little to go back to in Cairo."
"Speaking of Cairo, how's my Sire's sarcophagus? Any disturbances?"
Yahya chuckles, "None whatsoever. It is as secure and undisturbed as can be. Although, I must admit, Rafael made quite an unusual decision to go into Torpor. Remind me, when did he wish to be reawakened?"
Seth replies, "2025. Or 2026. He said he had his own reasons for going into a Torpor."
"Hmm, that is quite a long way off, is it not? Very unusual indeed."
Seth shrugs and smirks, "What can I say? That's Rafael De La Cruz for ya. Guy's an enigma, even to me, even after all these years, even...after being by his side for so long." He stops just shy of mentioning more.
Yahya doesn't bother pursuing this line of questioning any further, "Regardless, that situation is well under control. None shall intrude near your Sire's sarcophagus. His Torpor shall be peaceful, although I imagine rousing him will be no easy task."
Seth clicks his tongue, "I'll cross that bridge when I get there. Besides, this city has plenty of disposable bodies. I know he's gonna be quite hungry when he wakes up."
"It will have to be a very meticulously-planned undertaking."
The High Priest replies, "Well, it's a long ways off, anyway. Right now, all my focus and attention is on the SI threat in this city."
Yahya slightly bows his head, "Indeed, indeed. So, how close were you and your Sire to Sybil? I have been told that the 3 of you conversed almost every night. Is there truth to that?"
Seth stumbles with his words a bit, but he gets them out, "That is correct."
He then adds, "Sybil had a very...calming influence, so it makes sense we all hung out a lot."
Yahya picks up on Seth's use of the past tense, "'Had'? Is there something that I should be made aware of, High Priest? Are you keeping any secrets from your fellow Setite, hmm?" he eyes Seth suspiciously.
The High Priest dismissively waves, "It's nothing. You're grasping at straws here, OK? Maybe Sybil met Final Death, have you ever considered that possibility?" his tone is a lot more insecure and nervous than usual.
Yahya remarks, "Certainly. I have also considered that possibility, yes. If that is the case, then this Domain is in far more danger than mere Second Inquisition fanatics, no?"
Seth glowers at the Ancilla, "The hell's that supposed to mean? The Second Inquisition IS a threat! They attacked someone a night ago, they monitor everything, and they aren't afraid to blow buildings to kingdom come!"
The scholar remains calm and unfazed, "Hmm, that would be a tragedy, would it not?"
Seth narrows his eyes, "What are you really here for, Mr. Najjar?"
Yahya equably answers, "I have already told you: to do what you refuse to do- investigate the disappearance of Sybil. There is no other possible reason or incentive for me to linger in this city."
"But why?" the High Priest rudely demands. He doesn't understand why Yahya wants to go through with this investigation. It's as if he has some other ulterior motive.
"I refuse to dignify that with a response. Certainly you, of all people, cannot be blind and clueless to the surrounding threats- the Sabbat in Oman, the Anarchs scattered around Qatar, and so on."
Seth sighs, feeling the frustration within him building up, "If there was something truly threatening to us here in the UAE, then we'd have heard something about it by now." He looks away.
This entire conversation is getting him nowhere. All Yahya wants to do is poke and prod. For what, though? Why? What does he gain? What does he lose?
Yahya looks around Seth's 2nd Haven and dryly remarks, "I see you are doing quite well for yourself, High Priest."
"Hmm."
"Is 1 Haven not enough for Typhon's chosen?"
"I don't need you prying into my personal matters, Yahya. Don't push it."
Yahya holds up his hands in mock surrender, "Oh, I would never entertain such a thought. Far be it from me to sink to such depths. But, it is a worry that certain individuals within this Domain have."
Seth's expression hardens, "What individuals? Who?" his tone is filled with venom and spite. He wants to lash out at the Ancilla, but he holds himself back for now.
Not now. Not yet.
Yahya vaguely answers, smirking, "They shall remain unnamed, for their sakes. But, it is quite well known that you do live quite...extravagantly, no?"
Seth scowls, "So? There's no rules against a High Priest having nice things."
"Indeed, you are right, Mr. Steale. There are no such rules." He pauses to let the point sink in. He then asks, "Where did you get this money to build another Haven? Surely it didn't come from the Clan's coffers, yes?"
Seth scoffs, "Of course not. You know what I've been running here for years now. Why beat around the bush, hmm?"
Yahya slowly nods, "Yes, your...cult does appear to be running quite well. But, in my experiences, appearances can be deceiving."
"We had some security leaks and other problems, but I promptly took care of it. Nobody is gonna be coming to kick down our doors any time soon, if that's what you're worried about." His tone betrays his overconfidence in the internal security of his cult.
The Setite scholar says nothing for a while. He eventually speaks up, "In its current state, it is an abattoir. Why not, and forgive me if I overstep my reaches, turn it into a proper retreat or a wellness center?"
Seth laughs, "Because it's already working just fine! You haven't even seen the best of it!" he waves his cane in the air. It's quite obvious he's proud of his accomplishments.
(Despite Seth's jovial exterior, he's absolutely fuming on the inside. It's clear that Yahya's fairly innocuous statement has struck quite a nerve with the High Priest).
Yahya pointedly asks, "Stringing along these mortals and treating them as mere...cattle, like the Sabbat oft-times do, can have dire consequences, no?"
Seth blithely states, "A close friend of mine said he treated this place like his own personal pantry. We only take a little bit here and there. We aren't the Sabbat." He smirks.
Yahya is undeterred, "And if this 'close friend' of yours has other ideas?" he knows full well who that person is, but he wants to hear it from Seth himself.
Seth counters, "I trust Gallagher with my Unlife."
"And it's safe to assume that you are fully aware of his violent past?"
"It's useful to me. I'll leave it at that."
Yahya warns, "Be wary of that one. You might have pulled him away from the abyss of the Wassail, but a part of him, his Humanity, will remain forever lost...gone."
"Well, he's still a great guy," Seth says with some conviction in his voice.
The Setite Ancilla remarks, "I suppose his use is a great boon for your operation here." He pauses to think before continuing, "Tell me, how much does your friend know about you?"
Seth gives his guest (one might say pest, heh) a quizzical expression, "Meaning?"
"He served as Sheriff under the Princehood of that Feral, whose name I cannot remember. His interpretation of the Traditions is quite...stringent." Yahya pauses again, waiting for the High Priest to take the bait.
Seth gets where this is going, but he decides to play dumb for now, "Hmm, I don't see where you're going with this."
Yahya simply shrugs, "As I said before, appearances can be deceiving. Misleading, even."
Seth shakes his head, "Gallagher knows the value of loyalty. He knows what he is and isn't allowed to do here. If you're asking me if he'd sell me out, then the answer is NO."
The Setite Ancilla raises an eyebrow, "Interesting. I wonder, what would an Elder like Sybil have to say about a man like Gallagher? Hmm? She did not suffer fools or those prone to indulge their Beasts in violent impulses, as I recall."
Seth's face contorts into a scowl, "You have no idea what she'd say. You weren't around. You didn't spend time with her like me and Rafael did--"
Whoops.
Yahya smiles, satisfied, "Ah, so you and your Sire spent quite a lot of time with her. Yes, the others I spoke to do indeed corroborate that account."
The High Priest groans and rubs his face, "Oh, for--look, I don't have time for this, alright?" he looks at the time and curses under his breath.
Yahya remarks, "You are wrong, High Priest. Sunrise is hours away. We have sufficient time to discuss what I strongly believe to be a matter of...vital importance to the Ministry."
Seth plays along, lazily waving his hand, "Hmph, sure. I've got nothing else better to do."
The Setite Ancilla asks, "What did you and Sybil last speak about? Do you remember?"
Seth clicks his tongue, "C'mon, seriously? Our last chat was decades ago! Why does it even matter?" his voice rises just a bit.
Yahya calmly answers, "Because it might help us find out what happened to her." He eyes Seth like a hawk. The High Priest's lips quiver ever so slightly.
Seth answers, "We talked about the future, the upcoming century, stuff like that. Fairly mundane and not really important."
Yahya holds his finger up, "I will be the judge of that. Tell me, what was her mental state like? How did she appear? How did she feel?"
"About as well as Elders usually feel- hungry, distant, whatever. Nothing seemed out of place with her." He tries to shrug this off.
The Setite Ancilla inquires, "Was there anyone she spoke to frequently or showed more interest in than others?" he eyes Seth intensely.
"No."
Yahya offers, "Did you know that some others claimed she felt quite...depressed? And every time she had conversed with you and your Sire, the look on her face would be that of absolute desolation." He waits for a response from Seth.
The High Priest dismisses that, "Nonsense. You've been listening to too much gossip. Sybil's been missing for decades. She could be anywhere by now." He looks away, refusing to meet Yahya's gaze.
"That's not what I asked."
"Look, we talked about stuff- me, Rafael, and Sybil. We didn't discuss anything that could possibly make her depressed. OK?" Seth's losing his cool now.
Yahya presses, "What did you discuss, then? The weather?" he narrows his eyes at Seth.
Seth shakes his head, "I think I'm done answering your questions."
The scholar objects, "I think not, Mr. Steale--"
Seth claps back, "That's right. You don't think at all. You just waltz in and start hurling accusations at me, holding ME personally responsible for whatever did or didn't happen to Sybil! What gives?" his voice rises, but he doesn't quite shout.
Yet.
Yahya remains calm, "High Priest, you do realize that by your actions alone, you are admitting to something, yes?" his tone is calm and even, as always.
The Setite Neonate snaps, "If you really think I'm responsible for Sybil's disappearance or Di--destruction, then just say it already!"
Yahya's ears pick up Seth's slip of tongue, "You meant to say something instead of 'destruction'?"
Seth stammers, "N--no! Of course not! I'm saying...that maybe...goddamn it!"
Yahya grimaces, "Such foul invectives. Tch."
Seth shuts his eyes, as if he's meditating. He whispers something to himself and tries to calm down. It's quite clear that he's losing his temper over here.
Yahya says nothing. He knows Seth's temper is only going to rise higher.
The High Priest then looks at him with eyes filled with anger, "What gives you the right to come in here and start pointing fingers at me, huh?"
"Like you, I care only about that which is good for our Clan as a whole. Remember that our sole duty is to Typhon alone. We do not serve anyone else." Yahya's voice has an edge to it.
Seth spits, "Don't tell me what my duty is! I've been the High Priest for decades, alright? I KNOW HOW THIS WORKS!"
Yahya coolly replies, "As the High Priest, it is your duty to be an example for the rest of our Clan, especially to the younger ones. Especially to those who might still stray off the Path of Typhon."
"You're preaching to the choir here, buddy. I get it." Seth dismissively clicks his tongue.
Yahya warns, "I am far from finished."
Seth rolls his eyes, "Yeah, I figured." His sarcasm is palpable.
The Setite scholar adds, "I want to be clear about this: if you are hiding anything, if you or your Sire know of Sybil's fate or whereabouts, then I WILL find out."
He sternly adds, "If you attempt to obfuscate or misdirect me, then you shall leave me no choice but to share this information with higher authorities within the Camarilla."
Seth snaps back, "Reveal WHAT, exactly? And to who, hmm?"
Yahya smugly replies, "Why, the truth, of course. I am sure that there are those within the Ivory Tower who would, undoubtedly, be interested in hearing about...all of this. Not to mention the very obvious...displays of opulence you have indulged in."
Seth shakes his head, "I don't think so. You aren't gonna go around telling anyone anything about me, got it?"
Yahya lifts his chin, "And why is that?"
Seth scoffs, "No one would believe you."
"Rubbish. I am a venerated scholar of Typhonist doctrine and matters amongst the Kindred. Moreover, I have lived for centuries, while you, Neonate, have only existed for mere decades. Who, then, would be believed?"
Seth glowers at him, "If you even try to go behind my back, I'll--"
Yahya chuckles, "You'll what? Hmm?"
Seth sighs and shakes his head, "For--forget it. Just...gimme a moment."
Yahya gently bows his head, "Take all the time you need. Even Typhon's High Priests need someone to confess to. I shall be glad to hear whatever it is you have to say and advise you accordingly, yes?" he smirks.
Seth thinks it over, "OK, fine. But I'm only doing this 'cause I have no other choice. Got it?"
Yahya nods, "Indeed. Please, proceed." He sits there expectantly.
Seth stands up, "Why don't I bring you a drink, hmm? Something from the bodies of my Herd. I'm sure you'll savor it. Besides, it's only good hospitality and manners."
Yahya responds, "The Tzimisce, my friend, are unmatched in their hospitality to others. But, I graciously accept your offer."
Seth's lips twitch. He goes off to "fetch" some blood for Yahya to sip on. He enters the kitchen, flips a light switch, and checks the fridge. The light emanating from the fridge causes him to wince and groan.
He opens the fridge door and finds it mostly empty (well, not empty, but lacking in much variety).
The majority of it is filled with wine bottles filled with the blood from the devotees, while the shelves are holding assorted vegetables, some fruits, and even a couple of plastic containers filled with kibbeh (or something like it).
Maybe Edwin grabbed something to eat. Ghouls, unlike their Domitors, can still eat regular food and drink regular stuff. The blood they get from their Kindred masters is just a bonus.
Seth grabs 1 of the bottles and closes the fridge. He makes his way back to the living room. Yahya is standing in front of a picture frame of an ankh, looking at it with great interest.
His clammy fingers glide along the edges of the frame. He turns around and sees Seth walking towards him. He smiles and goes to sit down on the sofa.
Seth hands him the bottle, "Here. This is some of the best blood we have, straight from the Herd."
Yahya thanks him and sets the bottle on the coffee table. Yahya leans over and grabs himself a glass. He pours a little bit of the blood into the glass and takes a sip.
His eyes roll back into his head and he emits a low hum of satisfaction. Seth watches, waiting for Yahya to finish.
The Setite Ancilla tells him, "Oh, this is quite good."
"Organic beetroots. It's good for the blood. I have the devotees grow 'em."
"Hmm. And do you still indulge in that Serpent Water rubbish? I personally find it blasphemous, that you would associate the name of Apep with something as vile as that filth."
Seth remains composed, "I do what I do to keep my Herd in check."
Yahya takes another sip, "I see. Such practices should be done away with."
He sets down the glass on the table, "Now, please, High Priest, tell me what you know of Sybil. I would've asked your Sire, but alas, he remains unavailable till the appointed time of his reawakening."
Seth regards his guest for a few tense moments. He then speaks up, "We spoke. A lot."
Yahya smugly nods, "Rest assured, High Priest, I shall keep this information to myself, until it is absolutely necessary to share it with others. What was the true nature of these conversations, hmm?"
"She was an Elder. What do you think they were? She had started to feel...down. Sybil thought she'd lost her purpose after so long, after seeing and doing so much over the centuries."
Yahya inquires, "Did she speak to you or your Sire about her...depression?"
Seth admits, "Oh, yeah, she was quite disgruntled with the direction that Kindred Society, as a whole, was taking. She said that she...she was just done with it all."
Yahya nods and motions for the High Priest to continue.
Seth raises his chin and explains, "So, me and Rafael wore her down."
A light gasp escapes from Yahya's lips, "Oh my. Please, go on."
Seth chuckles darkly, "Sybil needed a little push in the right direction. She was so busy brooding about about what should've been and what might've been, that she couldn't see the future."
A smug smirk forms on the edges of the High Priest's mouth, "She needed a little bit of that good ol' fashioned Setite manipulation and coercion."
Yahya shakes his head, but remains silent. He looks genuinely disturbed by what he's hearing.
Seth shrugs and goes on, "Me and Rafael, well, heh, we were a team alright. Night after night after night, we wore her the hell down. We poured some really volatile fuel on that little fire that was raging and burning inside of her."
His smirk grows, "We played along when we needed to, and we planted seeds of doubt and despair where we had to. Then, me and Rafael sat back and watched that damn tree begin to sprout."
Yahya shakes his head, "So, you both DO know what happened to Sybil." His voice is low and filled with sadness.
Seth laughs, "Well, 'course we do. Do you wanna know what Rafael made me do next?"
Yahya gulps deeply, "Y--Yes." He nervously takes a sip of the blood from the glass, his hands shaking as he sets the glass back on the table.
Seth calmly goes on, "He made me...Diablerize her."
Yahya gawks, "WHAT?"
Seth laughs harder, "Yeah, he wanted me to do it. He said that it'd be the final test of my faith in Typhon. Heh, he said it'd be the ultimate test of my faith in Apep."
"Please tell me you did not--"
Seth maintains his sinister smile, "Of course I went through with it. You have no idea how cruel my Sire was. The shit he put me through, the pain he made me endure, but in the end, I was refined, like gold in a furnace, if you will."
"I--I--" Yahya can't even find the words to speak. He just stares at the High Priest, as if Seth has suddenly become this horrific monster in front of him.
Seth proudly proclaims, "That's right, I did it. I Diablerized your precious Sybil."
Yahya's eyes are bulging out, "IMPOSSIBLE! She would've survived! She would've taken over your body by now!"
Seth spreads his hands, as if demonstrating that he is still himself, "Nope. Why do you think me and Rafael spent so long wearing her down, breaking her will, and destroying her from the inside?"
He points out, "We knew that if she still had her wits about her, she would've destroyed Rafael and me on the spot."
Yahya stutters, "Th--that is--I--" he stops and takes a moment to collect himself.
Seth chuckles, "What's wrong? By the end of it all, when she was worn down, she herself fell into Torpor. That's when my oh-so-beloved Sire told me the reason why we were doing what we were doing. He never did reveal his true plans until the very last second, heh."
Yahya leans back in the sofa, "Oh my god."
"Yeah, you're right." Seth chuckles again.
Yahya looks at the floor, extremely distraught and disturbed by the revelation he's just been given, "You--you took away her Willpower. She--she had no choice but to fall into that Torpid state."
Seth nods, "Yep. I consumed her whole. After that I got a hell lot more powerful, heh. It was so easy. Once I felt her Vitae inside me, there was no resistance, no struggle. It was like she wasn't even there anymore."
He shakes his head in disbelief, "I remember Rafael telling me that there is no way out, only through. We last told her that our Clan was getting weaker and weaker with each passing decade. She fell for it, hook, line, and sinker."
"..."
Seth stands up and paces about, "Oh, in retrospect, it was so easy. It almost makes up for the cruelty of my Sire, the things he'd make me endure." He shivers at the bitter memories.
Yahya whispers, "My god."
Seth nods, "Yeah, my god, too. Typhon. Apep. The Serpent. Set. Whatever you wanna call it."
He holds his arms out, "My Sire was right- Typhon truly has given us all the strength and wisdom we need to prosper and flourish in this fallen world. All we have to do is reach out and take it."
Yahya looks up at Seth, "And yet...you still have the gall to walk around as though you are some sort of--of--"
Seth interrupts, "Saint? Oh, please. I don't cloak what I do in pointless notions of Humanity. Unlike you, Yahya, I'm not bound by the shackles of modernity."
"..."
Seth smirks, "Y'know, my Sire often said that the Enlightenment was 1 of the greatest mistakes, the greatest tragedies, to have ever befallen the world. He was right about that."
"..."
The Setite Neonate looks down at Yahya with contempt, "Y'know, you and those other so-called 'scholars' and 'intellectuals' in Cairo, you're all so wrapped up in your fancy universities and libraries and museums, you can't even see how weak and pathetic you've all become."
Seth stops pacing, "You oh-so-desperately cling to this notion of an objective 'Truth' with a capital-T, but it doesn't exist, and it never will."
"..."
Seth goes on, "You waste all your precious time thinking about and discussing theories and ideas, and yet, you refuse to actually go out and DO anything with what has been given to you."
He sniffs, "What good does that do for you or anyone else?"
Yahya's voice shakes, "What--what is it that you believe ha--has been given to us?"
"Power, Mr. Najjar. Power. That's the only thing that counts." He leans closer to Yahya, "With power comes absolute...liberation."
Yahya swallows deeply. The fear in this Ancilla begins to rise up, slowly but surely.
Seth laughs, "That's right. Our purpose is to liberate these...people, these...little lost lambs from their shackles, from the things that hold them back, hold them down."
The Setite Ancilla shuts his eyes tight and buries his head in his hands, "Why? Why do you do such things? What...what could you possibly gain by destroying everything that we have built?"
Seth derisively scoffs, "Are you deaf? Everything I've done...everything I'm about to do, everything me and my Sire did, EVERYTHING is all part of Typhon's great plan."
Yahya glowers at the Neonate High Priest, "Do not take Typhon's name in vain."
"Pfft, please."
Seth stretches his arms out to either side of his body and tilts his head up towards the ceiling, "So, there you have it- my confession."
Yahya sighs, saddened and dismayed, "What else would you have me do?" his voice is low and weak.
Seth blandly shrugs, "Not much. You can tattle and snitch to anyone you'd like, but they'd never believe you, anyway." He lowers his hands to his side and stares at Yahya.
Yahya objects, "They would! I am a scholar who has survived for more than a century! I--"
Seth lifts his finger, "And there lies your mistake. You think your age, your Generation, makes any difference here." He waves his hand around, "It's a ruse, nothing but a ruse. Don't you get that?"
The Ancilla has nothing to say to that.
Seth goes on, "Always has been, always will be. Besides, it's time for the 'younger' ones among our kind to step up to the plate." He shakes his head, "God, it's taken forever for this to even happen." His tone is filled with regret and annoyance.
He walks up to Yahya, "Look at yourself."
Yahya straightens up and lifts his chin, "You sound like someone deep in the Sabbat."
"I might've read some of their stuff. I don't agree with all of it, but a lot of it does resonate, heh."
Yahya looks on with anguish. Seth looks back with disdain.
He leans forward and says, "And you are no different- you cling to nonsensical ideas that hold our Clan back and prevent us from truly growing and realizing our full potential."
Yahya meets Seth's gaze, "Mr. Steale, there is still time for you to do the--the right thing here."
Seth pulls away and disdainfully asks, "And what would that be?"
Yahya offers, his eyes pleading, "Come with me. The--The Hierophants will then decide your fate..." he stops, his hands shaking, "I...I beg of you..."
Seth simply laughs, "The Eternals? Seriously? Most Founding Temples are below sand, reduced to nothing but rubble on nights like these. Why should I care about those I'll never meet, huh?" he gives Yahya an incredulous look.
The Setite Ancilla corrects, "Not all Founding Temples have fallen. Yet. There are still some that have withstood the test of time. There's 1 in Uganda. You've been there, yes?"
"I have. That's where I found my Ghoul, Edwin."
Yahya has a hopeful look on his otherwise troubled face, "Please, consider it. The Eternals there can be...very understanding and reasonable, despite their own personal...issues."
Seth sighs, "Yeah, I know. Rafael is Generations away from a damn Hierophant, so why should I care, let alone bother?"
"Have you no respect for your Blood?! No respect for what our Clan is supposed to be?" Yahya angrily demands.
Seth remains unmoved, "It doesn't matter to me what the 'Founding Temples' think. They are as much relics as this so-called 'Truth' you keep peddling to everyone else. They live by theirs and I live by mine; end of story."
"Amaranth is no laughing matter, Seth. You might have consumed Sybil's essence, her soul, but it is only a matter of time before the truth is revealed," the Ancilla warns. His voice is low, but full of warning. His expression is grave.
He means what he's saying. He doesn't like it, but he's doing what he believes he must do, what he believes is right.
Seth remains smug, "Oh, please. Unless someone probes me with high Levels of Auspex, they ain't gonna find shit."
A sinister smirk forms across his face. He excuses himself.
Yahya warily nods and watches as the High Priest saunters off to another room.
Once inside the room, he gently closes the door. Seth goes to a nightstand, grabs a little something that's hidden behind a pile of random junk and holds it up.
He admires this simple and thin piece of wood. He touches its sharp tip to ensure it's still as sharp and dangerous as the first time he carved it. A toothy grin slowly spreads across his face. It's an unnerving grin, filled with malevolence, malevolence that will soon be unleashed, no doubt.
He turns back and faces the door. He conceals the stake behind his leg, raises his chin, opens the door, and confidently strides back out.
Yahya has his hands clasped together and rests his forehead on the tips of his fingers. He doesn't move at all, so consumed by this revelation that he's received. His expression is still that of grave seriousness, but his body is slack.
Seth walks over, places his hand on Yahya's shoulder and spends a second or 2 looking into the eyes of his fellow Viper.
Yahya's expression softens a bit, "There is still time to do the right thing, Mr. Steale. Come with me and we can find a way to purify you of the taint that is inevitable with the act of Diablerie. We can cleanse you and--"
Seth merely smiles.
Yahya stops and blinks in confusion, "What? What is so amusing?" he looks up at Seth, not sure if he should feel insulted, confused, or scared.
Seth's mouth opens, but he says nothing. Instead, he quickly and forcefully plunges the wooden stake into Yahya's chest. The Setite Ancilla gawks and winces. The shock is so great that his voice fails to work, all that comes out are wheezes and gasps.
Yahya stares up at Seth with eyes filled with disbelief and betrayal. After that, his entire body goes slack.
Seth growls and plunges this piece of wood deeper into the scholar's chest. With malice in his serpentine eyes, he twists and turns it as if he were tightening a particularly tough screw.
Yahya's jaw hangs open. His face is a mixture of shock and horror. There's nothing he can do- he's as helpless and defenseless as can be in this state.
The High Priest lets go of the simple wooden implement. He nervously bites his lip until his eyes fall on a display case on the far side of the room. He gets up, his eyes never leaving that case.
Seth reaches out and grabs 1 of the objects inside the glass case: a curved scimitar. He admires the craftsmanship and beauty of this sword, which was a gift from a more well-heeled devotee some months back. He feels its sharp edge and is satisfied.
He goes back to Yahya's limp form and readies the sword. With a single swipe, he decapitates the immobilized Ancilla. His head falls to the ground, the look on his face permanently frozen into one of sheer shock.
Seth smirks and gently places the sword back inside the glass case, "You should've left well enough alone, Mr. Najjar. Truth be told, I can't have witnesses or anyone holding me back from achieving my true potential."
He sneers, "People like you, you're nothing more than an obstacle, like so many others in this damn world. I've come too far, worked too hard, and planned too much."
As he's busy monologuing, Edwin walks in and finds Yahya's body slowly turning to ash and crumbling.
He blinks and turns to his master, "What--"
Gallagher shoves the Ghoul aside and exclaims, "Jesus, take the wheel! What the fuck?! Whoa, you, you--"
Seth plainly nods, "Yes, Ewan. I did. He was...trying to blackmail me. I had no choice but to destroy him, you understand."
His expression is quite calm and collected for someone who's just committed a crime against a fellow Setite, especially since his fellow Setite was also a respected scholar amongst the Ministry.
A look of anguish begins to form on Edwin's face. His breathing picks up as he starts to hyperventilate. He clasps a hand to his mouth, trying to suppress the panic he feels building inside of himself.
Gallagher starts laughing, "Holy shit. Holy fucking shit! This--this is--whoa." He ignores Edwin and walks over to Seth, clapping him on the back and congratulating him.
Seth smiles and nods, "Thank you." His expression turns solemn and he goes on, "I've wanted to do that for some time now. It had to be done, anyways."
Gallagher offers, "Need help gettin' rid of the uh...head?"
Edwin sits down until his breathing returns to normal. Seth walks over and looks down on his retainer, expression stern and almost menacing, "Edwin? What's the problem?"
The Ghoul stammers, "You...you..."
"Yes, Edwin. I had to. I don't expect you to understand it, and I'm not gonna bother rationalizing my decisions to you, alright?"
Edwin gulps, "Yes, sir. He--he was err...blackmailing you, sir?"
Seth lies, "Oh, yeah. He was, Edwin. Ever since he came to this city, he was. I didn't wanna tell you about it sooner because...I didn't want you to get worried. I know you have a tendency to do that."
He continues spinning this web of bullshit, "I kept this from you for good reason. Truth be told, this blackmail has been going on for...quite sometime now."
Edwin accepts his master's explanation with a plain and simple nod.
Gallagher bends down, picks up Yahya's head, and grimaces, "Woah. To think that the fuckin' High Priest of Al-Kushraf city would...would--"
Seth waves his hand in a dismissive fashion, "No need to make a meal out of it, Ewan. It's done now."
Gallagher keeps holding the severed head, "Right, right. So, who's next? Anyone else gonna be getting chopped tonight?"
Seth is not taken aback by his friend's lust for violence, "No. Well, not yet anyway. Any issues, anything I should be...worried about?"
Both Gallagher and Edwin shake their heads. The former speaks up, "Nah. Personally, I'd sit back and let those Blade maniacs do most of the SI-killing."
Seth equably agrees, "That's the plan, yes. Rile them up and let them do most of the dirty work."
Gallagher inquires, "What happens after the SI is done for, huh?"
A sinister smirk forms on Seth's lips, "We'll see, won't we? For now, I'm content with sitting back and letting the others do all the hard and dirty work. We're just gonna have to hunker down and stay safe, and you're gonna make sure no one suspects us, got it?"
Gallagher grunts and smiles, "Hell yeah!"
Seth turns his attention to Edwin, "Got it?"
The Ghoul dryly nods and says nothing.
Seth waves his hand lazily, "Do whatever you want with that Ancilla's head. Personally, I'd get rid of it."
Gallagher eagerly says, "Consider it done! Hey, chocolate milk, another trip to the nearby incinerator, huh?"
Poor Edwin really has no other choice but to get rid of his master's messes (and accompany the ever-so-repulsive Gallagher while doing so).
With some effort, the lanky retainer stands to his feet and goes to the car. He looks a bit nervous. Well, more so than usual.
Seth waves him away, "Good, good. Now, go."
Once out of earshot, Gallagher pipes up, still holding that head like it's some kind of prized trophy, "Wow, I didn't think you'd have it in ya." He sounds positively giddy. He's grinning from ear to ear, and he doesn't care who sees it.
He's not the least bit ashamed of it.
Seth grimly replies, "You don't know what I'm truly capable of, Ewan. Yahya was...an obstacle to my plans--"
"Which are??"
"In time, you'll see it for yourself, old friend. Just hold on to that promise I made you: a twofold restoration awaits you, my friend. In the meantime, do what you have to do to build connections among the--"
Gallagher chimes in, "Mortal authorities in this fuckin' place? Already doing it, heh. Y'know, my cushy-ass job as a security consultant is helping get close to these rich towelheads. I can talk to important types, find shit out, get the inside scoop on what goes on in this city."
"Good. Make yourself useful and make sure that no one finds out about your true nature. I'm sure you, more so than others, understand the Masquerade, yes?" Seth gives him a pointed look.
Gallagher rolls his eyes, "Of course I know! Jesus, don't patronize me, alright? I was the fucking Sheriff of Dubai. And before that, I was a Pinkerton. So, yeah, I know a thing or 2 about...enforcing the rules." He sounds annoyed, but there's a hint of amusement in his voice.
"Excellent. I trust that you'll be able to do the job then? Completely, competently, and thoroughly." Seth pauses and looks around, "Now, if you don't mind, please take care of..."
He callously gestures to the severed head of his fellow Setite, "...that. If anything, I've seen enough of the 'great and honored' Yahya As'ad Najjar. Typhonist scholar and Ancilla. Hmph."
Gallagher pointedly queries, "If anyone asks about this fucking raghead, then what?"
The High Priest shrugs, "We'll spread rumors- through the usual channels, of course- that he was Beckoned off or maybe he met Final Death at the hands of the SI or Hunters. Any explanation, provided it's plausible enough, should suffice."
Gallagher grunts, "Yeah, well, that stuff's always been your thing. Alright, bye!" With a pep in his heavy step, he walks off to the car with the head in his hands. He has a wide and nasty grin on his face.
Seth watches his friend drive off. Once the car is gone, he stands at the edge of his doorstep and blankly looks up at the starry skies above.
"Oh, Rafael...if only you could see me now. What, oh what, would you say, hmm? Approval? Disapproval? I'd settle for disappointment." He chuckles, but it's a mirthless sound.
He closes his eyes and imagines his Sire's reaction, "Yeah, you'd be pretty disappointed. But, what's about to happen next would blow your socks off, heh."
Indeed. What's about to happen next would most certainly "blow the socks off" many a surly Setite in this city, particularly those in Seth's orbit of charm, charisma, and influence.
Elsewhere, a clandestine chat session begins...
ILHC: "Commander Gallant. SITREP?"
OBED: "Bodies successfully recovered from city morgue. Witnesses neutralized. They shall be sent back for a hero's burial."
ILHC: "The news is abuzz with heavily-armed assailants shooting up the city's morgue. Lt. Klein was never one for subtlety. Give her our compliments."
OBED: "Will do. LVNDR system has flagged something quite unusual some 40 minutes ago."
ILHC: "Do elaborate, Commander Gallant."
OBED: "Multiple people who have seemingly overstayed their visas or are here in this country illegally have been flagged. There's 100s, possibly more."
ILHC: "How is this related to our current operation?"
OBED: "Surveillance footage and financials do not match their official birth records. I had my analysts, including Lt. Davidai, go over everything multiple times over. They all report that the subjects are definitely blank bodies."
ILHC: "What does the LVNDR system have to say?"
OBED: "It says that there's a 93.46% chance that the flagged individuals are indeed blank bodies. Nothing about them adds up."
ILHC: "Very well. What is your next course of action, Commander Gallant?"
OBED: "Requesting authorization to replicate what we did to the Al-Jamal Residential Tower in Dubai 5 years ago; this way, we can ensure that our casualties remain at an optimal 0.00% whilst maximizing enemy losses."
ILHC: "Granted. Proceed. Have you found out where these vile creatures congregate?"
OBED: "Yes. We have. Lt. Veifer is leading the mission, just like last time. LVNDR has traced a lot of them back to a singular location- the Marjan Tower."
ILHC: "Very good. What makes this Marjan Tower so attractive and special to these blank bodies?"
OBED: "Nothing. It's long-abandoned. It goes up for 40 floors. It was said another 40 were planned, but the builders, an Indian conglomerate, had to cancel it due to lack of funds and other safety concerns."
ILHC: "Do you know why these blank bodies are there? Why have they chosen such a structure?"
OBED: "Given its abandonment, it makes sense for them to gather there, away from inquisitive eyes. One of my junior operatives called it a 'squalid shithole' and I am inclined to agree."
ILHC: "A ground operation would be costly and complex?"
OBED: "Very much so. Lt. Veifer and his team will plant the explosives during the morning. For maximum effect, we'll detonate them sometime in the evening, just as the blank bodies awaken from their day slumber."
ILHC: "Well thought out, Commander Gallant. They will be waking up to quite a surprise indeed. Lt. Veifer is truly 1 of our best. We still talk about your success in the AJRT op."
OBED: "I am very pleased to hear that, as Lt. Veifer is, too. I don't believe that he's gotten any proper recognition for what he and his team did 5 years ago."
ILHC: "Given the nature of our righteous work, it's not likely that he or his team ever will get the recognition they rightfully deserve. But, rest assured, the whole of Am Yisrael is safer thanks to their valiant efforts."
OBED: "Thank you. That, I steadfastly believe, is reward in and of itself."
ILHC: "Carry on, Commander Gallant."
OBED: "May HaShem guide our hands and prepare us for what comes next."
ILHC: "Amen. Dismissed."
The chat messages begin to fade away from the screen. Commander Obed's fingers dance along the keyboard. He smiles to himself, knowing that everything is going according to plan.
He sharply exhales and leans back in his cushy office chair.
This is not good. The Marjan Tower is where the Caitiff are known to gather. In such a miserable place, the Masquerade is the least of anyone's concerns. Feedings are done in the open, wounds are not licked shut, and other things...other things happen.
The Ministry (and other Clans) in this city turn a blind eye to the wretched state of the Clanless Kindred in the city. "Out of sight, out of mind" seems to be the motto when it comes to the Caitiff in the Domain.
But that was about to change in a few hours' time. Lieutenant Maximillian Veifer has already procured some nasty high explosives, capable of bringing the already-dilapidated and neglected structure down, and destroying (or killing) everyone therein.
The blast would surely wake the whole city up.
Things were about to escalate in bad and worse directions from here on out.
Chapter 13: Escalation- Part 2
Back at the Marjan Tower, a handful of Caitiff gather around in 1 of the larger rooms on the 32nd floor. The chatter and laughter is loud, but not loud enough to wake up the residents in the nearby rooms.
Taking a look around, this place truly oozes sadness, misery, and squalor from every inch.
Moldy and cracked walls, peeling paint, scratched floors, discarded needles. There's no proper running water and barely any electricity. For reasons that should be obvious, population estimates are hard to come by.
People move in and out of this place all the time.
Desperation and despondence, economic uncertainty, fleeing abusive spouses (which is NOT easy in the fucking UAE), overstaying a visa, evading the law, etc. The bleak list goes on and on.
These are just some of the reasons why the people (not just Caitiff or vampires) in the Marjan Tower, the majority, are here. Some were simply abandoned and left to die. Others came from far and wide, attracted to this prospect of quick and easy money.
The bruises on their bodies (inflicted by the police) and their seized passports would say otherwise.
For now, some of the Caitiff huddle around an area that can be construed as a living room. They're playing a simple and fun game of cards. Everyone is laughing, smiling, and joking around, even if their surroundings are less-than-pleasant.
"Walla, habibi! 13 points!"
"You saw through my deck using Auspex! I saw you, habibi!"
"No, I did not! You were imagining things...again!"
The 3 Kindred playfully slap and shove each other, before breaking out into boisterous laughter. Tragically, this could very well be the last night wherein they would share such a human, such a simple and joyous moment.
A moment where they're just a bunch of buddies playing cards. It's the closest thing they have to friends or family in these parts.
"I'll go check up on the others."
"Hmph, don't bite anyone else. We don't need any more unwanted attention."
"Pfft, unwanted attention. We are already unwanted here!"
"Heh, fair enough, but still. Try to behave, habibi. We can't have the police busting down our door again, eh?"
"Haha, yes, yes."
In time, the sun begins to peek over the horizon. It's time for the Kindred in this part of the world to hit the hay. It's time to rest, relax, and get ready for another long, hard night ahead.
The Caitiff in the Marjan Tower are all resting away, looking like still corpses. Their chests don't rise and fall, their bodies are as cold and still as a stone. A regular person would think that these folk have passed on, in their sleep or something like that.
The thick (but worn and slightly torn around the edges) blackout curtains block out the piercing rays of the sun.
The other Kindred in this Domain sleep away. Svetlana, still stressed about her future prospects, dreams of something a little decent down the line. She's never been one to ask for too much.
John worries about scrounging up the rent money for the next couple of weeks. If worse comes to worse, he'll have to look into taking out a loan, or ask a friend for some cash. But who?
Seth sleeps peacefully in his 2nd Haven. His head is propped up by 2 thick and fluffy pillows. A long black sheet of fabric has been draped over the windows (as additional caution). There's nothing on his nightstand.
His closet doors are firmly closed, keeping its contents (and surprises) hidden for the time being.
Gallagher sleeps in his Haven, naked. An overhead fan spins rapidly. He sleeps the day away, not a care in the world, a peaceful, albeit wicked, grin on his lips.
Afternoon slowly gives way to evening.
Lt. Veifer and his team are preparing themselves. Using the last known (and available) plans of the Marjan Tower, he's directed his team to plant bombs in certain strategic locations that are guaranteed to cause maximum casualties and destruction.
Posing as simple tradesmen (electricians, repairpeople, plumbers, etc.) allows Lt. Veifer and his team to navigate through the halls of this rundown tower. The few mortals inside do not question or object to the shady-looking "tradesmen" moving through the premises.
Lieutenant Maximillian Veifer is in his early-30s. He speaks with a typical Israeli accent, has messy ginger-brown hair, a trimmed beard, and blue eyes. He has a medium build. His eyes have an eerie glint to them, like the rest of his team.
Once all the bombs have been planted throughout the building, the timers are set via a wireless remote, and all exits have been checked (and locked shut to prevent escape), Lt. Veifer and his team take off.
They walk along the messy courtyard, hop into a nondescript van, and blend into the traffic and head to the rendezvous point, all of them smiling at the knowledge of what was about to happen next.
In the van, Lt. Veifer beams, "Excellent, excellent. Did you make sure to check the exits?"
"Yes, Lieutenant! None of them shall be leaving."
The Lieutenant smirks, "Good, good. It's been a while since we have taken down a structure, heh heh."
"Indeed. The last one was, what, 5 years ago?"
Lt. Veifer nods, "Yes. Did any of you encounter any trouble while planting the explosives?"
The operators all say some version of "no" to that query.
"A bunch of fucking miserable lowlives. We're doing them a favor, hahahahaha!"
"100% I saw a few of them fucking like diseased dogs in the stairways. They had this, like, blank and spaced-out expression on their faces. Fuck, I wanted to puke, hahahaha!"
"After the building crumbles, what next? Do you think that'll make this shitty place a little nicer?"
Lt. Maximillian answers, "These fucking Arabs...they only know how to make rockets, bombs, and other worthless things. Nothing more than fucking animals. Tch."
"HAH! That is very funny! And true!!"
"Yeah, true."
"We should take care of them, too. This beautiful country is tainted with these foul things. I could see myself owning property here...1 day, B'ezrat HaShem."
Lt. Maximillian thoughtfully nods, "1 day, the vision of the Greater Israel Project will be realized and all of it shall belong to us." He bitterly chuckles. The operators laugh and signal their agreement at the grim colonial prospect.
After driving a few blocks, the van pulls into an underground parking garage, where the operators change clothes, gather their gear, and go about the city.
Lt. Veifer remarks, "Commander Gallant is going to want to see this for himself."
"Heh."
"I'll buy us some beers and pull up the deck chairs so we can watch."
"Fireworks- Israeli style! Haha! We are so going to enjoy this!"
"Don't celebrate until after the mission is successful," Lt. Veifer chides. The operators apologize and nod their understanding.
He checks the time, "But a beer does sound nice."
Some time later...
The sun begins to slowly retreat below the horizon, and with it, the Kindred in this part of the world begin to awake. The Caitiff in the Marjan Tower begin to stir from their day-sleep.
Their bodies shiver and shake as they come out of their day-long slumber.
Elsewhere, in Absalom's Haven, Mr. Bean springs up from his day-sleep. He rushes over to Absalom's bedroom and pounds on the door.
"ABSALOM! ABSALOM! OPEN UP! ABSALOM!"
The Malkavian Elder groans and hobbles over to the door, "What?!" he looks down at his charge, "What is it?" His voice is sleepy, sluggish, and slow.
Mr. Bean wildly gesticulates, "I had a--a vision! We--we have to go! NOW!"
Absalom lazily lifts his hand, "Calm yourself. Speak sense. What...what did you see?"
Mr. Bean is far too frantic and all-over-the-place to coherently answer his fellow Seer.
Absalom frowns, "Speak clearly. What. Did. You. See?"
He takes a deep breath, "I--I saw something bad, Absalom. Something really, really bad, man. If we go now, then maybe we can warn--"
"You still have not told me the nature of this premonition, let alone its contents or why you are so worried about it."
Mr. Bean shakes his head in frustration, "It was bad, Absalom. Like, really, really bad!"
Absalom's eyes widen, "Then tell me what it is!"
Mr. Bean gasps and almost falls over. He catches himself and waits a moment before saying, "It's the uh...Marjan Tower. Y'know, that dump I used to squat at until you got me outta there a few weeks ago?"
Absalom gets a bit impatient, "What of it?"
Mr. Bean gulps deeply, a look of dread and anguish forming on his face, "I saw it come crashing down."
"What do you mean by 'crashing'? What exactly did you see?" the Malkavian Elder's voice is low, but it's still demanding. His expression is stern, serious, and a tad bit grumpy.
Mr. Bean explains, "Like I--I saw...saw and well, heard this massive BOOM! Like floor after floor, BOOM, BOOM, BOOM, BOOM! And then everything came crashing down."
Absalom blinks slowly. His lips turn downward, "This vision of yours, you are sure it can be relied upon and trusted?"
The young Malkavian nods his head, "Yeah, I guess so. You yourself told me to um...always trust my visions."
The Elder Lunatic nods, deep in contemplation, "Yes. I said that."
Mr. Bean gets twitchy, "So, wha--what the hell are we waiting around here for?! Let's go and warn 'em!!"
Absalom remains where he is and grimly says, "No."
Mr. Bean turns around and stops in his tracks, jaw nearly hitting the floor, "Wha--but Abs, man, they're Kindred! Sure, I know you strongly dislike Caitiff, but I still got a few friends there and I--I'd really hate to see anything bad happen to 'em!"
"No. We will do no such thing."
Mr. Bean's face scrunches in confusion and disbelief, "Huh?? WHY?!"
Absalom calmly repeats himself, "We will do no such thing. The Marjan Tower and all that is therein is a place of squalor, misery, and wretchedness. It has always been that way."
"ABS! Come the fuck on! There's--there's kids in there, man! Freakin' toddlers and babies, too!"
Mr. Bean painfully admits, "I even fed from a few of 'em when I used to live there." His voice is quiet, his tone is regretful. He looks away in shame.
Absalom's expression softens, but only by a little bit, "Mr. Bean, do you not remember what I told you? You were the only one there who was of our Clan. The rest are not like us."
He adds, "The Blood of Malkav does not flow through them. They have no insight, they lack vision, they are nothing more than mindless--"
Mr. Bean growls and readies his claws, "But...they're people, Abs..."
Absalom remains firm and undeterred, "Retract your claws. Immediately."
Mr. Bean growls and bares his fangs.
Absalom firmly tells his charge, "Do not make me say your true name...Mr. Bean."
Mr. Bean gasps in fear when he hears that. His Fractured Perspective (a variation of the Malkavian Clan Bane) means he enters into a vicious and violent Frenzy anytime anyone says his real name out loud.
Mr. Bean lowers his head, his claws and fangs already retracted, "F--fine...Absalom." He's disappointed with the Elder's grim decision to allow all those people to perish. It makes him sad and angry, and quite possibly resentful.
Absalom tightly squeezes Mr. B's shoulder and stares into his charge's tired and almost-tearful eyes, "You will understand why, my charge."
With tears of blood streaming down Mr. Bean's face, he snarls, "Then fuckin' tell me!"
Absalom answers, "I believe, in your heart of hearts, that you know this, my Childe. You know this, and yet you wish to save them? Save what? Save who?"
Mr. Bean's voice trembles, "At least the--the kids, man."
"It is too late for all of the occupants of the Marjan Tower, I am afraid."
Mr. Bean puts the pieces together, "So...so, this is all a part of my destiny. Not sa--saving the people in that tower is somehow tied to what I've gotta do, huh?"
Absalom nods, "You already know the answer."
Mr. Bean bitterly spits, "Fuck!"
Absalom's expression remains impassive. Mr. Bean's face twists into a grimace, "Why? Why like this? Why can't it just be from point A to point B?"
The Elder replies, "It is not from A to B. It is from A to Z."
"Right now, I really wish we could skip the remaining letters."
The Elder watches his charge slink away with a blank and neutral expression on his face. Mr. Bean goes back to his room and lies down, feeling helpless, guilty, and deeply saddened.
Mr. Bean wipes the tears of blood away with his sleeve and slams the door in frustration.
The Malkavian Elder lifts his chin and says nothing. Sunset is mere seconds away now. He takes a look around his Haven.
It's a penthouse suite that is sparse and barely furnished. The walls are a dull shade of white. The tiled flooring is a wee bit scuffed in some places. The floor to ceiling windows are covered with thick blackout curtains.
Remote-controlled shutters also serve as an added precaution. There are no decorations or anything that indicates that someone does indeed LIVE here.
No framed pictures of the Elder, no bookshelves filled with books, and no furniture with unique details. This place might be a Haven for the 2 Seers, but it's certainly no home.
The conditioned air wafts through the entire penthouse, making everything a little colder than necessary. Despite being a cold, centuries-old corpse, Absalom likes the extra chill.
He sits down in the living room, which is only a rickety table and a blue sofa. Absalom throws his head back. His lips form into a thin line. His eyes glaze over.
His eyes begin to rapidly move behind his closed eyelids, indicating that he's being summoned to the Malkavian Madness Network- the psychic link shared by all Malkavians, regardless of who they are or where they are in the world.
Once inside, he hears what sounds like carnival music, albeit creepier than usual. He sees colors dancing before his eyes and feels something akin to being sucked into a vacuum.
"Absalom, is that you?" a timid female voice asks.
"Yes. Who is this?"
"I...I didn't think it would be possible."
Absalom extends his mental feelers to the disembodied voice, trying to determine who exactly she is and where she's located. He gets nothing. Nothing except that this is a fellow Malkavian.
The Elder asks, "Who is this? Who am I speaking with?" his tone sounds almost demanding.
The woman stammers, "F--Forgive me. I--It's been a while."
Absalom doubles down on trying to get a read on her. A name begins to form at the tip of his tongue, "Mauve. Madeline. Lilac. Stephenson."
The woman gasps and Absalom feels a shiver run down his Unliving spine. His body jerks and spasms, like someone poked him in the ribs with a sharp stick. He still has no idea who she is or how she's managed to reach out to him.
A sea of voices (some more unhinged than others) drown out what this woman is trying to say.
A man beams, "Bitches everywhere!"
From another direction, someone cries out, "Is that you, sweet pea?"
"Daddy wants a snack!"
"Marrow. Want. Tender."
Absalom clenches his jaw and tries his best to push through this overwhelming tide of noise, voices, and thoughts. He presses forward, focusing his considerable Willpower on the woman.
She shakily asks, "Can...can you still hear me?"
The Elder grits his teeth, "Mauve...I sense you are here, yet you are not. How is it possible?"
"It's Madeline, actually. Mauve's a name I'd...from a long time ago, actually."
"Why?"
"Long story, I'd rather not weigh you down with it, seeing that you've uh...got quite a bit on your plate now."
Absalom presses, "I feel that you are long gone, yet I hear your voice clearly, I feel your presence, but it is not a part of the Malkavian Collective. How is such a thing possible?" the Elder is at a loss for words in regards to this new development.
Madeline sheepishly responds, "I'm...dead, actually."
The Elder pauses for a moment to process what he just heard, "I see. I do not know if there is an appropriate response for this revelation, so I shall refrain from offering any."
Madeline faintly chuckles, "Hmm. Thank you."
"You have met Final Death, then?"
"Mm-hmm. A decade ago, back in Flimont City--"
Absalom cuts in, "I thought that you were not going to weigh me down with your story, Madeline...Lilac?"
Madeline corrects the Elder, "It's Madeline Stephenson. 'Mauve Lilac' was a sort of name I ran with back then. Again, long story."
She hastily adds, "When you've been around as long as I have, it gets difficult to remember...certain things."
Absalom nods in understanding, "You have not been around for as long as I have, for a decade is not long."
Madeline concedes, "You're right, Absalom. It all ended for me when I was but a Neonate. Taken t--too soon."
Absalom can feel her crying, or at least trying to suppress it, "Do not cry. Why would you cry? You are gone, Madeline."
Madeline laughs, but it's a mirthless sound, "It's just...it's just that...you start to realize...things."
"What kind of things?"
"Where I am right now, it's...different. It's home, but it's also strange and alien at the same time."
Absalom inquires, "Why do you think I am speaking with you? I cannot believe that this is possible. And how have you reached out to me?"
Madeline explains, "It's...I dunno. I really don't. I wish there was a rational explanation for any of this, but truth be told, I gave up on trying to look for one a w--while back."
Absalom probes deeper, his mental feelers going in all directions, "I sense...wires, machinery, circuits, complexity unlike any other."
He adds, "This place is...strange, like you have said."
Madeline explains, "I chose to be here."
"Why would you choose this...place over the Tapestry?"
Machine-like and whirring sounds begin to overtake Madeline's voice, "I...didn't want to go into the Collective. I wasn't ready yet. I was scared at the time. Still am."
"It is a justified feeling," Absalom feels a tugging sensation all over his body. He winces in pain.
Madeline picks up on this, "Are you...OK?" her voice sounds a little more synthetic and far less natural than before.
Absalom grits his teeth, "It is not of importance, Madeline. What is...it like? Your new existence?"
Madeline doesn't reply to that query.
Absalom perceptively infers a few things, "I see. I understand. Ah...yes. A tragedy, indeed."
Madeline sighs deeply, her voice taking on a more natural tone, "What about you? How have you been?"
"As well as can be expected."
Madeline inquires, "How did you come to find your way to this place? This city, I mean?"
Absalom takes a moment to answer, "I came here after our enemies drove us out of Dubai. The Serpents give us refuge in Al-Kushraf city, it is...sufficient for one's immediate requirements and needs."
"Hmm."
As the Elder is about to probe even deeper, he feels his connection begin to wither away. Madeline's voice becomes smaller and smaller until it completely fades away into the endless abyss of the Weavery.
Absalom's eyes begin to flutter open. Mr. Bean stands there, looking worried as ever.
He points out, "You were babbling to yourself, Abs." His tone still reflects his sharp bitterness over Absalom's decision to tell no one about the impending attack.
Absalom adjusts his sleeves calmly, "The Cobweb always brings with it new insights."
"Hmph."
Absalom glowers at his charge, his icy blue eyes piercing into Mr. Bean's very soul, "I have...spoken to someone."
Mr. Bean shrinks under the Elder's stern glance, "Another Ma--Malkavian?"
The Elder nods, "Yes. She has gone to her Final Death, but somehow, despite not being absorbed into the Madness Network, she has managed to reach out and communicate with me."
Mr. Bean sighs in disinterest, "Pfft. I--"
Absalom interjects, "You are still caught up on the Marjan Tower, are you not? You must learn, my young friend, to let certain things go. To let certain things...happen."
Mr. Bean mutters, "They...they were my friends, Absalom. There's kids there, too. Little street urchins who no one gives a damn about. And...and now they're all--all gonna die."
His face crumples as the sanguine tears begin to fall, "We could have done something to..."
Absalom shakes his head, "Sometimes, we permit fate to take its natural course. They would've all died anyway, some sooner than others. This city is unkind to such lowly creatures." He sounds callous and unempathetic.
Typical low-Humanity Elder, really.
Mr. Bean's facial expression reflects his inner anguish. He kneels down, elbows digging into the sofa, and starts to mumble the Lord's Prayer. His voice trembles and cracks as he recites the prayer. He tries his best to keep himself together. It's not easy.
Not by a long shot.
Absalom watches his charge with an impassive and indifferent expression on his face.
It's been a while since the young Malk has prayed, but his sincerity is still apparent.
Absalom waits a few seconds before clearing his throat, "Mr. Bean."
The ground lowly rumbles and vibrates. Mr. Bean gasps lightly, his eyes popping open. The rumble is followed by another greater one, then another.
Mr. Bean turns his head to the window, "Wha--what's going on, Abs?!" he sounds panicked and his eyes have taken on a more manic appearance. He's not sure if he should be angry, scared, or both.
The ground vibrates some more. A large explosion is heard in the distance. Mr. Bean throws himself on the floor and curls up into a ball.
Absalom merely winces, but is quick to recover. He takes a quick look at the windows and waits for a moment.
Mr. Bean remains curled up and scared, his claws and fangs bared, ready for a fight, "W--What's happening?!" he's not quite sure if he should run, hide, or what. He's never been in a situation like this before.
A few more gentle rumbles later, Absalom pulls a curtain open and sees the sun beginning to retreat. The billows of smoke and ash are still visible in the sky, and they are growing larger. More explosions can be heard, as can the panicked screams of people.
Mr. Bean cautiously crawls to his feet and carefully walks over to the window. He tepidly looks over Absalom's broad shoulders and gasps in shock. Large columns of thick black smoke can be seen rising into the darkening skies.
A large orange glow is also visible from the direction of the Marjan Tower. The sounds of screaming and the distant blare of police and emergency vehicles fill the air.
Absalom calmly says, "It is over. Come, we must now go to Elysium and determine a response to this...tragedy."
Mr. Bean thinks out loud, "And you want me to keep my mouth shut about my vision?"
"It would be wise."
"Lemme...get ready. I--I don't know if I can ever forgive you, Absalom."
Absalom lifts his chin, "I have no need or requirement for your forgiveness. Just know that I took you in. Had I not found you all those weeks ago, you would have perished this very evening."
"But...all those people. So many gone. So much carnage. And for what?" Mr. Bean looks and sounds utterly defeated. His eyes have a glassy look to them.
Absalom answers, "This is the path to your destiny."
Mr. Bean's voice trembles, "So--so, it was always meant to happen?"
"Do you Pentecostal Christians not believe in the doctrine of...predestination?"
Mr. Bean scratches the base of his neck, "So, they were always gonna die, no matter what?"
Absalom walks off to his room without bothering to answer his adoptive Childe's query. The question merely lingers in the cold air. The smoke continues to rise, sirens continue to blare, and the distant chatter and noise from the neighbors can be heard.
In the streets below, cars and trucks rush by. A few pedestrians are gawking at the smoke, flames, and the chaos.
Mr. Bean meanders to his room. It's decorated with posters of various contemporary Christian bands. There's a single bed in the corner with a thick blanket draped over it. His closet is mostly empty, save for the few sets of clothes that he has.
A few photos, magazines, and a couple of mementos from his past (mortal) life can be seen scattered about the place. He sighs and readies himself for the night ahead.
Elsewhere...
Svetlana awakens from her day-sleep. The muffled sounds of the emergency vehicles cause her to sit up straight and check the clock. She squints and blinks the slumber away.
Svetlana quickly jumps out of bed and goes to investigate the muffled voices coming from the hallway. She opens the door and sees her neighbors all talking amongst each other.
In Russian, she asks someone what's all the commotion about. They tell her about a massive explosion and fire on the other side of the city. She thanks them and heads back inside her apartment.
John's Haven was quite close, but not very, to the Marjan Tower, so he hears the explosion and a few vases shatter when they fall off their shelves. The ground shakes a bit, causing John to sit up straight in his bed.
He quickly heads out into the hallway. There's quite a bit of chatter going around, but nothing else. The landlord, Mr. Nadeem, calms everyone down and tells them to not panic. Everything will be OK, he assures.
John goes back to his apartment and sits down, his legs shaking, and his hands trembling. He tries to calm his nerves by doing a few breathing exercises, and eventually, it works.
Sort of.
The news outlets are still catching on, but social media is already abuzz with reports of the entire building being levelled by some kind of explosion. It's still not clear who or what is responsible.
No group or individual has claimed responsibility, as far as the general public knows. Still, like in the case of the AJRT 5 years ago, the Emirati authorities will blame it all on a nasty gas leak.
Hell, they'd even go so low and blame the residents themselves for being too "lazy" and not having proper equipment, precautions, and all that other stuff.
Gallagher awakens from his slumber, his ears ringing from the noise. He groggily sits up and tries to knuckle the last bits of sleepiness away from his eyes.
"Urrrrrgh. Fuck was that noise?"
He puts on a silky robe, ties it, and slowly trudges into the hallway. His neighbors are already outside, chatting away in a mixture of English and Arabic. Gallagher catches snippets of the conversation, and he's able to put 2 and 2 together.
He slinks back in and mutters, "Jesus. An explosion? Ah, shit. I better tell Seth."
Seth is already standing on his front porch. He sees the billows of smoke rising to the heavens. The smell is pungent and acrid. Seth grimaces after taking a few whiffs.
He closes the door and leans his head against the doorframe. His expression is calculated and unreadable. His arms are crossed over his chest.
Seth shakes his head and mutters, "No. Couldn't be? Hmm, well, I guess I'll have to spin this to my advantage. Somehow."
He mutters to himself, "Hmph. Somehow."
Edwin barges in, eyes widened in horror. He shows his master something on the phone, "Sir, sir! You have to see this!"
Seth is taken aback by early (but very grainy) video footage of the explosion. It was taken a few kilometers away, but the dilapidated Tower is clearly visible in the distance.
The camera shakes violently and debris and shrapnel is blown out in all directions. The video cuts away abruptly. A new and very shaky clip appears.
Edwin is nearly hyperventilating. He looks like he's on the verge of a nervous breakdown. The camera footage shows the top floors of the tower collapsing down.
It's nothing short of catastrophic.
Seth asks, "What the hell is this?"
Edwin stammers, "Em--Emergency personnel are being dispatched, sir. Some are saying it's a terrorist attack."
"Hmm. Definitely seems like it. Do the devotees know?"
"The smoke and ground tremors are hard to ignore, sir. It's also all over the news and social media."
Seth commands, "Make sure that NO ONE here finds out. I can't deal with their 'problems' right now."
Edwin objects, "But, sir--"
Seth grits his teeth, "Edwin! Do. As. I. Say."
The Ghoul dutifully apologizes, bows his head reverentially, and bolts off to make sure that calm is maintained among the cult compound. The guards, on the other hand, talk amongst themselves about what's going on mere kilometers away.
Parts of it are overheard by the isolated cultists, and that quickly spills over into a panic. Edwin has his work cut out for him, to say the least.
Back in Absalom's penthouse, the Elder and his adoptive Childe are already out and about.
Mr. Bean's hands shake in the elevator, "I--I'm hungry, man."
Absalom impassively says, "Contain it a while longer. You will be provided a meal at Elysium."
The elevator stops and a few people join the Malkavian duo. Mr. Bean is quite tempted to bite into a few of these mortals. Their hearts beat a little louder in his ears.
He tries his best to ignore them and focus on the task at hand.
When the elevator stops, the group heads to the exit and into the street.
Large groups of people are gathered here and there, all talking amongst themselves in very worried, very hush-hush tones about the recent explosion. Many wonder who or what is responsible. Others wonder what will happen next.
Police and other emergency vehicles zip by. Their sirens fill the evening air, along with the shouts and barked orders of a few Emirati police officers on the scene.
"Yalla! Yalla! Make way. Sir, madam? Please, move aside. Thank you." The cop gestures and moves people out of the way as a convoy of ambulances race past, lights flashing.
Mr. Bean looks around and can feel the hearts of these mortals pumping blood through their bodies. Absalom keeps a firm grip on his arm.
"You must drive us," Absalom orders.
Mr. Bean scoffs, "Not in this condition."
"I do not know how to drive."
Mr. Bean groans, "Then, we take a taxi."
"Hmm."
Meanwhile, the SI operators ghoulishly congratulate each other on a job well done. Lt. Veifer has a bottle of beer in his hands. He clinks bottles with his fellow goons and takes a long swig.
"Fuck, it feels good to bring destruction down on our enemies!"
"HAHAHAHAHA! Fuck yeah, man! FUCK YEAH!!! Am Yisrael Chai, bitches!"
Another SI operator asks out loud, "Hehehe, so, what's the high score like, eh? 700+ like last time?"
Lt. Veifer smiles and shakes his head, "This was a smaller operation. The main thing is that we have neutralized many blank bodies today."
Commander Gallant joins in on this disgusting celebration of death and destruction. He rolls a shoulder, pops his neck, and says, "Excellent work, Lieutenant Veifer. You've done your country a great service today."
He does a wide, sweeping gesture and adds, "And to the rest of you: wonderful job. To our analysts, field operators, and all those who worked behind the scenes to make this happen. A toast to all of you."
The Commander lifts a bottle of soda up and the gleeful fascists follow suit. Lt. Veifer gives his Commander a respectful nod.
Someone from the back loudly shouts out, "Hooray!"
Commander Obed lightly chuckles and takes Lt. Veifer to a corner, "Once again, I would like to commend you on a job well done."
"Anytime, Commander. So, what now? What next?"
Commander Obed responds, "We'll be monitoring the news and social media very closely. We should see some interesting results soon enough."
With a disturbingly hopeful expression, Lt. Veifer queries, "You think we got all of them, sir?"
Commander Obed clicks his tongue, "If only it were that easy, Lieutenant. The blank body by the name of John Suarez is still out there."
Lt. Veifer offers, "Maybe he was killed along with the others?"
"I pray and hope that is the case. It would be easier if our enemies all congregated in 1 spot and didn't move from there."
"It certainly would," Lt. Veifer smirks and takes another big sip.
Commander Obed's expression is neutral, almost stoic. He glances over to the large flat-screen TVs hanging on the wall, showing an aerial shot of the carnage.
He looks over his shoulder and remarks, "You think that the blank bodies will blame each other for this, don't you, Lieutenant Raz?"
Lieutenant Liora Raz is leaning against the wall, arms folded. She's in her 30s, has a long face, fair skin, and light brown eyes. Her brunette hair comes down to her shoulders and is straight.
She snickers and answers, "They most certainly will, Commander Gallant. I'm counting on it. Blank bodies are characterized by intense internal discord and petty political strife and maneuvering. They'll be at each other's throats. It'll be beautiful...and helpful to our operation."
Commander Obed shakes his head, "The blank bodies are not always at each other's throats."
He adds, "They are present even within Eretz Yisrael..."
His lips shake, "Even within our military and--"
Lt. Raz clicks her tongue, "If they are, then the Mossad will flush them out. Better yet, string them along for valuable intelligence. And when the time comes, use the media to label them as terrorist sympathizers. Works every time."
Commander Obed laughs, "Haha. You should really consider running for office. Our Knesset could use someone like you- experienced and intelligent."
Lt. Raz takes that into consideration, "I have plans, sir. Many plans for the future."
Commander Obed dismisses her and joins the others. He taps on his bottle of soda and requests a moment of their time. The other operatives quiet down and listen.
"As much as I would love to celebrate our small victory and declare the end of Operation Sheva right here and right now, we still have an enemy to take down. And I will not rest until every last of them have either been killed or captured."
A few "Amens" are uttered, but the Commander holds his hand up, "We must remain vigilant and aware. We are still in the opening stages of this operation, and I want each and every one of you to keep your wits and attention focused."
"We will follow your lead, Commander Gallant!" someone from the back utters.
The Commander smirks and thanks whoever said that, "Thank you. Just know why, and for who, you do this, my friends. The enemies of Am Yisrael are many- from simple and uneducated savages with AK47s and RPGs to entities that are centuries old, possibly even more."
He goes on, "We must remain strong. We must remain united. We are the ones who will purify this region. We are the ones who will rid it of all the scum and filth. With God, cutting-edge technology, and immense firepower on our side, nothing, no one, no being can stand against the MIGHT OF AM YISRAEL'S ARMIES!"
"Whooooooo!"
Some people finger-whistle and howl into the night.
"AM YISRAEL CHAI!!!"
"FUCK YEAH!!!"
Commander Obed lets his underlings have their raucous and rowdy moment. Once subsided, he continues from where he left off, "To serve in and be a part of Unit 8211, I believe, is the highest privilege an Israeli can have. Even more so than holding political office."
There are a few murmurs and nods.
He lifts his chin and declares, "We ARE the elite. We are the best of the best of the best. No one can match us. No one can even come close. And they wouldn't even dare."
He goes on, "I'm honored to have served, and am continuing to serve, in such an elite unit. We've made incredible sacrifices, and we've done our best to make Israel, and western civilization as a whole, safer from the barbarian hordes that wish to see it crumble."
Lt. Raz and Lt. Veifer clap their hands and the other operators do likewise.
Commander Gallant graciously bows his head and thanks his people, "It is my honor, privilege, and pleasure to be serving alongside you. It has been a true honor to know each and every one of you here, by name, not just by rank or by number."
Someone from the front asks, "Aren't you forgetting someone, Commander Gallant?"
Commander Gallant gives that person a sideways look, "Who?"
Another person interjects, "The LVNDR system! A fucking thing of magic! Like a wizard's staff!"
Everyone laughs.
Lt. Klein chortles, "I think I prefer a pistol. It's reliable, easy to maintain, and doesn't require an entire city's power grid to function. But, to LVNDR, I guess."
Commander Gallant acknowledges all of this, "Yes, yes. We mustn't forget what the Israeli Ministry Of Defense has graciously permitted us to use. I'll admit, I don't understand much about it, but you tech 'nerds' here sure do. Haha!"
He turns around and asks, "Lt. Veifer, tech guy? Care to come up here and tell the dinosaurs more about what this LVNDR system is all about?"
Lt. Veifer looks a tad bit drunk, but he obliges, wobbling and staggering up to the front. He nearly trips over himself, but manages to catch his balance.
He hiccups, "So, this...LVNDR system. Oh, fuck...where do I even begin?"
While scum party and celebrate, the rest of the city is still processing the shock and terror that has been unleashed. It's a chaotic night in Al-Kushraf, with sirens, shouting, and other unpleasant sounds filling the air.
In Elysium, a small crowd has already formed on the 140th floor. Murmurs of uncertainty, mumbles of fear, and gasps of disbelief permeate the air. The Kindred have no idea what has happened or who is responsible.
But they do know that it's something bad, and they can't wait around to find out and get hit again. All they know is that a large number of Caitiff (likely all of them) in the Domain have been destroyed in a single, vicious attack.
Seth and his crew arrive at Elysium, where they are met by an anxious and concerned Mr. Bean.
Mr. Bean quickly spits out a few words, "It's a disaster, I'm telling you--"
Seth slowly nods and gently moves the shivering Malkavian to the side. He approaches Absalom and looks at him from head to toe.
The Elder Malkavian looks back, his blue eyes as piercing and cold as ever.
Seth sighs, "This is bad, Absalom."
"It is indeed."
"Do you know what happened? Any uh...Malkavian visions about what might've happened?"
Absalom's face twitches for a moment, "No. Not this time, unfortunately. We were too late to do anything. It is what it is."
Mr. Bean shoots his adoptive Sire a dirty look, but he quickly crumples under the latter's stern glance.
Absalom and Seth walk off to see the other Primogen. They talk for a few seconds before entering a private room, where they all convene an emergency meeting.
Vizier Mohammed speaks up, "The situation is quite dire, my friend. This...does appear to be the work of the Second Inquisition, of that there can be little to no doubt."
Tommy concurs, "Aye. Those fucking wallopers crossed a line here. News reports are being suppressed like mad. Social media, on the other hand, reflects a clearer picture of the ground reality."
Sebastian has his chin on his palm, "Which is?"
Mark looks around and doesn't offer anything meaningful to the conversation. He merely sits on his chair and watches the others converse.
Tommy pulls out his smartphone and shows a few social media posts, "These are only some of the posts. There's also plenty of videos and pictures floating around the gaffe. Authorities are trying to censor it and make sure it does nae get out."
Absalom remarks, "A futile attempt, but I understand why they make it. It is likely that news of this explosion has traveled to the other side of the world by now."
Sebastian points out, "Heard some of the people here saying it's a terrorist attack? Could it be terrorists? Maybe we're--"
Seth interjects, "No, Seb. It's SI. They've done something similar to this- 5 years ago at the Al-Jamal Residential Tower in Dubai."
Mark chimes in, "Oh, right you uh...mentioned something about that. Jesus, that's--that's messed up. A whole building just to get to us?!" he sounds rather incredulous and upset.
Seth responds, "Yup. They go through great lengths to wipe us out. That's just how the bastards are."
Sebastian asks, "I thought they uh...ah, never mind."
Absalom shoots a firm glance at the Toreador Primogen, "If something is on your mind, then speak it, Epicurean. Do not waste our time."
Sebastian sighs, "I'm not really sure if it's related, but...there have been a few rumors going around in my circles of embedded foreign spies. I didn't care much for it before, but after this, I sure as hell will be looking into it a bit more."
Seth points at Seb, "You do that. If they're SI, I want you to get a few of 'em alive...for interrogation purposes."
Seb shrugs, "I'll see what I can do. No promises." Despite sounding casual, there's a hint of fear in his voice.
Like any other bloodsucker, he's shaken up by what's just happened. The Toreador Primogen goes back to staring at his nails after speaking his bit.
Vizier Mohammed lifts a finger and states, "The Marjan Tower has long been a gathering spot for the Caitiff. Many resided there..."
Seth sighs, "Yes, we know this. Tell me something I don't know."
The Banu Haqim Primogen clicks his tongue, frustrated, "We should have appointed a Primogen from amongst them while we still had the opportunity to do so. Now, I fear it is too late." He looks rather downcast.
Mark's lips quaver when he asks, "You--you don't think they got ALL the Caitiff?" the Ventrue Primogen tugs on his shirt collar and scratches his cheek.
Seth dryly answers, "We have to keep all possibilities open, Mark. Even the grim ones." Part of him actually DOES hope that every last Freestyler in this Domain has been destroyed.
That would be a great...bonus (a boon, one might say) for the High Priest's grand plans.
Tommy shoots back, "Aye, nae be talking shite, ya Ventrue boaby! Maybe a few of them DID make it...or somehow managed to get away unscathed. Bloody 'ell." Despite being masked, the Nosferatu Primogen's sickly eyes reflect his fear and concern for the situation.
The Malkavian Primogen says nothing for a few moments. Seth glances at Absalom, and the Elder glances back. Absalom holds the High Priest's gaze, then, Seth looks away and sighs in resignation.
He breaks the silence by clearing his throat and looking around the table. There's an obvious nervousness present in this room. Not just that, there's a sense of urgency that permeates the air in this cold room.
Even from the height of the 140th floor, the faint sound of sirens can be heard from below. Helicopters fly to and fro, and the authorities are already gearing up to sweep everything under the rug as promptly as they can.
The last thing the Emirati authorities need is panic (and lost commerce). It's mainly about the latter. As such, the people will only be given pieces of the picture, while the whole thing will likely never see the light of day.
Vizier Mohammed continues to look sad and troubled. Tommy is leaning against the table, his sickly eyes darting around. Mark sighs in frustration, and Sebastian sits back on his chair, his hands on the back of his neck.
The High Priest strokes the emeralds on his snake cane and studies the members of the Primogen Council. He has to weigh his words, tread carefully, and play along when needed.
The doors swing open, and there stand the 2 Setites- Joyce and Tristan. They're both dressed in smart formal wear and look more on-edge than usual.
Seth asks, "Tristan? Did you pick them up?"
Tristan has a foul look on his face, "Mm-hmm. The 2 Assamites are here, boss."
Seth motions with his hand, "Let 'em in."
Joyce sighs and shakes her head, "They're feeding in the other room."
Seth presses his lips into a thin smile, "Ah, yes, yes. Of course, of course. We can't have them showing up on an empty stomach, heh. After they're done, tell them to come in here, alright?"
The duo curtly nod and leave the doors open as they begin to walk off. Some of the gathered people shoot the 2 Setites a nasty look, but Joyce doesn't care and Tristan doesn't even bother looking at them.
John and Svetlana emerge from another room, their Hunger satisfied for the time being. Svetlana wipes some blood off the corners of her mouth and John licks his lips.
He gives his Childe a significant look and gestures for her to go ahead, "Don't worry, Svetlana. I'm right here. Whatever goes down next, we'll be in this together." He smiles as reassuringly as he can.
The Assamite's tone of voice doesn't exactly scream reassurance, though, but Svetlana is in too deep to turn back now.
She shakily nods and smooths out some creases on her black pants, "Da. I am ready. For whatever comes next, I am ready, John." She's not sure who or what she's trying to convince with this little act of bravado.
Tristan accosts them and commands, pointing to the open door on the far side of the room, "Get inside. Now. And make sure to close the doors." He and his fellow Setite give them both an unpleasant, dirty look.
Svetlana shoots Tristan a death stare and walks towards the doors with a confident swagger. John shakes his head, mumbles something incomprehensible and follows along.
Seth welcomes the 2 Assamites inside, a small smile forming on his face, "John, Svetlana! We're glad you could make it. Are you both OK? Svetlana, are YOU OK?" For some reason, he's more worried about Svetlana than her Sire.
Seth even takes a few steps into Svetlana's personal bubble and looks her over, as if trying to find any scarring, cuts, scratches, or wounds.
John grimaces, "Whoa, hey, what the hell, man?!"
Even Svetlana is taken aback by the High Priest's sudden intrusion. She stammers, "Uh, ah, da. I am OK. I was not near." She shyly takes a few steps back and blinks a few times.
Seth holds up his hands, "Sorry, I uh...I was just worried about you, Svetlana."
The Assamite politely smiles at the Serpent, "Is no issue."
John takes a seat next to none other than Sebastian. The latter groans and shifts over. Svetlana joins Tommy.
The Nossie nods at her, "Aye, doin' awright, hen? Ready?"
She plainly answers, "Da. How are you, how is your Clan? Did any Nosferatu get hurt?"
"Naw. We're all fooling about in the sewers. Some of us have nae seen the surface in fucking decades, love. That's just how 'beautiful' we are, hahaah!"
John clears his throat and looks at Seth, "So, why'd you call us here?"
Seth shrugs, "I'm sure you know, Mr. Suarez."
John scratches his head and begins, "You want us to, what, retaliate against the SI? I'm down for it, but we need help, man. Like I said: there aren't many Blade of Haqim members left in this city now."
Seth gives a sideways look, "I was under the impression that there'd be more..."
John's expression falls, "Yeah, me too. Abdullah told me a lot of 'em have left for, or already are leaving for, Turkey."
The Setite stifles a sigh, "I see. Well, we'll just have to make do with what...err, who we do have at our disposal. Is this Abdullah a reliable sort of guy?"
John perches an eyebrow, "'Course he is. I've known him for years now. Best damn Blood Sorcerer you'll ever meet."
The Banu Haqim Vizier interjects, weaselly as always, "Even we have Blood Sorcerers, Mr. Suarez."
John claps back, "Then, why the hell don't you let them join the fight, huh?"
Sensing a shouting match about to break out, Seth steps in, raising his hands in a placating gesture, "Gentlemen, gentlemen, please. Now is NOT the time for this. We have to present a unified front if we wanna get whoever's responsible for this."
Vizier Mohammed sighs deeply and glowers at John, "As mentioned before: I will support YOU, High Priest, not the Blade of Haqim."
John's face scrunches in disgust, "What?! Are you that fucking spineless and petty that you'd refuse to help out your OWN GODDAMN CLAN at a time like this?!?!" he slams the table with his fists and growls.
The Vizier recoils back, "There are many other ways to fight this enemy without resorting to direct violence, Mr. Suarez."
Through gritted teeth, John snarls, "What other ways? They took out a whole fucking building, Mohammed! You Judge such people, you don't try to meet them on their level, appeal to their nonexistent sense of morality, or whatever wishy-washy shit you have in mind!"
Tommy sighs, "Aye, he's got a point, Vizier. These wallopers are fucking psychotic."
Absalom chimes in, "Barring the more radical aspects of the Assamite's statement, it is indeed better, and more expedient, to eliminate the problem at the root...to eradicate it wholly." Those last words came out way more sinisterly than intended.
Seth adds, "Yes, yes. I'm sure we'll all be able to find common ground. I trust that we'll be able handle this issue between our respective Clans, in a mature and um...informed manner. Yes?"
Murmurs of assent is what the Viper gets from the assembled Kindred.
He goes on, "We're in this together, ladies and gentlemen. All of us. I want everyone here to feel safe and secure, not just myself or my Clan."
John queries, "So, what's the plan? You called me and Svetlana here for a purpose, right?"
The High Priest answers, "I'll get to that. For now, however, we should consider ourselves...'dead'."
Mark looks confused, "Wha--what's that supposed to mean? I mean, as Kindred, we are technically dead, so--"
Sebastian picks up on what the Viper is trying to say, "Dumbass. He means that we should let the SI think that they've won; that way, we have the advantage of hitting them from the dark."
Seth smugly smiles and thanks the Toreador Primogen for getting his meaning, "Precisely, my friend. I know, I know, it'll be tough, but I'm sure we can manage somehow." He's not sure who or what he's trying to convince.
Svetlana sheepishly raises her hand.
Seth softly chuckles, "Haha. This isn't school, Svetlana. Say whatever you wanna say here." Those last 6 words have a subtle, almost flirty undertone to them.
The Assamite lowers her hand, "OK. I want to help with this plan. How do we move forward now?"
Seth suggests, "We have to find some way of luring them out. If we can somehow manage to capture 1, then we can maybe, perhaps, interrogate them for more info on the SI's broader agenda and plans. We need to know their next move before they do it."
He continues, "I mean, if we're lucky, that is. I'm half-expecting them to have 1 of those uh...cyanide things in their teeth. Y'know, all that spy movie stuff. Anyone?"
Mark snickers, "Heh, yeah, I know what you mean."
Absalom huffs, "Do not dwell on such trivial nonsense. If we are to capture 1 for the purpose of questioning, then it is wise that a Ventrue should be there to help along with the process."
"Why's that?" Seth inquires, somewhat incredulous.
"The Ventrue Clan has access to the Dominate Discipline. This, I strongly believe, would be of great use in...breaking the will of whomever it is we manage to capture." The Primogen focuses all his attention on Mark.
The Ventrue Primogen squirms and awkwardly scratches his chin and laughs, "Whoa, hey, wait, what, seriously? Me?"
Seth impatiently asks, "You DO specialize in the Dominate Discipline, correct?"
"Uh...yeah, but what you're saying is so waaaaaay outta my league, dude. Like, convincing a shopkeeper is 1 thing, but whatever the hell you're suggesting is a whole 'nother thing entirely!"
Absalom glowers the Blue Blood, "Mr. Kincaid, can you or can you not utilize your Dominate Discipline when the time arises? We do not care for anything else but your mastery over the Discipline." The Elder's stony gaze remains as intense as ever.
Mark nervously gulps and relents, "I...I, gah, I won't be able to handle it, OK?! Now, stop fucking looking at me! It's creeping me the hell out!"
The Elder Malk looks elsewhere.
John snickers and mumbles, "Jeez, poor guy."
Sebastian speaks up, "Why not get another Ventrue or any competent user of Dominate, hmm? And here I thought our very own Primogen would be more confident in it. Psssh."
The Aesthete blandly goes on, "I've seen him use it on everyone, from club owners to receptionists. He mostly does it to get free shit, heh."
Mark growls, "Seb, shut up--"
Seb rolls his eyes and leans back, "Oh, please, you only ever use your Discipline to get a free ride. But, when push comes to shove, you crumble under the pressure. Just like the rest--"
Mark jumps out and tries to grab Sebastian's neck. He fails and the Toreador simply shoves him off. The Ventrue is physically restrained by Seth himself.
"AAHHHH!!!" Mark groans and growls at the Toreador for insulting and humiliating him in front of others.
John sighs and looks at Svetlana, "Man, oh, man. This is so embarrassing."
Svetlana doesn't offer much of a response. She just looks on with concern and weariness.
Seth shouts, "Enough! Mr. Kincaid, sit back down. Sebastian, you apologize right now!" he sounds more angry than frustrated.
The Toreador Primogen does not look amused. He plainly looks around and ignores the High Priest's injunction.
Mark pipes up, "Yeah! Fucking apologize, asshole! You had NO RIGHT TO SAY THAT ABOUT ME!"
Seb makes a weird noise, "Well, pssssssh. It was only a matter of time before your freebie-whoring caught up with you! Y'know, I had some debt collectors pay ME a visit a few nights back. They were lookin' for YOU!"
The Ventrue's pale face reddens slightly. He gasps and his hands begin to tremble. He gulps and looks around, "Th--th--this is not uh--the time or--or the place. Uh..."
The Nossie jumps in with his 2 cents, "Aye, this is getting a wee bit outta hand here, awright. Maybe we should actually focus on the task at hand and no be getting sidetracked. Markie Mark's problems will have tae wait until after this SI shit's all sorted."
Sebastian rolls his eyes, "I'm not apologizing to a freebie-whoring fuckup like him."
The Nossie shrugs, "Aye, fair enough."
Mark lowers his head and avoids making eye contact with anyone in the dimly-lit room. He looks embarrassed, ashamed, and utterly defeated.
Seth sighs, "Look, let's uh...let's take a minute, alright? We're all very upset right now. Did anyone here happen to know anyone in that building?"
Shaking heads all around, sadly.
Absalom vaguely reminds everyone, "My charge, Mr. Bean, used to live in that wretched and miserable place. I only visited there to find those of my Clan amongst all the...Trash."
(Trash is 1 of the more harsher Nicknames for the Caitiff).
Svetlana gasps, "Absalom! Have some respect! Do not talk like that of Caitiff! I know you do not like them, but is no way to talk like that about them!"
The Elder Malkavian glares at Svetlana. She immediately shrinks back in her chair, her mouth slightly agape.
Seth speaks up, "She's...right, Absalom. A little respect wouldn't hurt. I know you Elders tend to be jaded and bitter, but this is...not the time to be doing that." He sounds slightly insincere, more like he wanted to interject on Svetlana's behalf and less about being genuinely outraged.
The Elder Malkavian scoffs, "Hmph."
John adds, "Yeah. Let's not fight each other now, OK? We have enough enemies as it is. They did this shit back in Dubai, 5 years ago. Now, they've done it again. Sons of bitches..." he trails off, looking deeply anguished and almost terrified of what the future holds.
Svetlana gently reaches out and places her cold hand over John's. He takes a few moments to notice, then, he smiles at his Childe and thanks her.
Vizier Mohammed queries, "What now? We are all confused, lost, and without Prince or Sheriff, there is clearly not much that can be done. Perhaps we should summon an Archon to the Domain?"
Seth shakes his head, "Slow down there, Mr. Khan. Slow down. It hasn't gotten out of hand. We can contain it, deal with it, and hopefully eradicate the SI presence here."
John lifts his finger, "'Here' where? The city? The entire country? We'll be lucky if we manage to clear out half a block. Fuck, we don't even know where they are!" he sounds genuinely worried and a bit hopeless.
Tommy chortles, "Aye, what John said, mate. We're like bloody cockroaches to these wallopers! And they have nae problem blowing shite up just tae get us charred. Maybe we are flying too close to the sun, eh? The Archons don't sound like half a bad idea, honestly."
Seth sighs, "No. No Archons. The Camarilla doesn't just dispatch them all willy-nilly. No. WE can, we WILL, handle this ourselves. The Blade of Haqim will do most of the fighting while we back them up in whatever way we can."
Absalom concurs, "Hmm, yes. Archons are overzealous in their understanding and implementing of the Traditions of the Camarilla. I fear that even the presence of 1 could...upset the unique balance of this Domain."
The Elder Primogen proceeds, "To have thrived for so long, without Prince or Sheriff, means that someone, likely you, High Priest, came to an agreement with the Ivory Tower many years ago. Correct?"
Seth subtly smirks, "It's a lot more complicated than that. A powerful Elder from our Clan claimed Praxis over Al-Kushraf city many decades ago. Her name was Sybil and she hasn't been heard from since. That's the uh...very abridged version of things around here."
John curiously prods, "What makes this Sybil so special?"
Seth quickly answers, "She was feared around these parts, Mr. Suarez. Even in her apparent absence, no one would dare to override her claims of Praxis over the Domain- that's how much influence she had. That's how much people around here feared her."
Absalom thoughtfully nods, "How interesting. What is her fate now?"
John snickers, "Yeah, right. She's probably ash by now. Elders like that don't get to where they are without stepping on toes and making a shit-ton of enemies. Hff."
Seth presses his lips into a thin smile, "Perhaps. Perhaps not. Sybil or no Sybil, we have our own Unlives to worry about. So, Mr. Suarez, how fast can you gather your fellow Blade of Haqim members?"
John shrugs, "Whoa, hey slow down, buddy. Slow down. Abdullah has already reached out to some of 'em. Still, some of 'em just might not come back. They're either getting the hell outta here or have other obligations."
The High Priest firmly questions, "How many of you are there? Gimme a number."
John clicks his tongue, "We don't count each other, alright? We never did and we never have. The Blade's strength lies in far more than mere numbers."
The Serpent chuckles, "Of course, they're also driven by their...convictions and desire to Judge, yes?"
"Yeah, yeah."
"So, how many members does your little band have?"
John groans, "Excluding all those that have already left for Turkey..." he mumbles something and does some rash mental math. He continues, "Hmm...not very many."
Seth remarks, "Hmm. Not very many to uh...take on the most dangerous and elite group of mortals on the face of the earth?"
He laughs, "I like those odds!"
Svetlana is unsure, "If we had help, maybe it would be easier, no? We also need to make sure we choose our fights and do not go into, how you say, ambush?"
Seth concurs, "Yeah, good point. We're gonna have to rely on hit-and-run tactics if we wanna succeed. We can't fight them in an open field and we sure as hell don't wanna fight them on their terms."
Absalom muses, "Their 'terms' are savage, disproportionate, and completely without any dignity, integrity, or restraint. These are not the kinds of opponents who would welcome an honorable duel with any kind of grace."
Mark nods and mumbles something along the lines of agreeing with what Absalom had to say. Seb signals his agreement with vague gestures and soft grunts.
John agrees, "Yeah, the Malkavian Elder has got a point. These assholes have no...qualms about making messes or killing tons of innocent people just to draw us out and destroy us."
He pointedly looks at the Vizier and firmly adds, "That's what they're all about. That's why the Blade does what it does to these Israeli creeps and homicidal maniacs. The angels of their better nature are next to nonexistent."
Vizier Mohammed frowns, "The Blade's fanaticism will be its undoing and downfall."
John claps back, "Bullshit! Your spinelessness and refusal to help us out against a common enemy will be YOUR downfall! These fascist freaks destroyed HUNDREDS of our people and they'll be coming for more in the next couple of nights!!"
Seth speaks up, "Yeah, you all make good points. And while I don't necessarily disagree with all of the Blade's teachings, we need their ferocity, their expertise, their...uh, tenacity right now more than ever."
Absalom smiles, "Yes. Ferocity. They have that in droves."
Seth continues, "We also need more people fighting against the SI; what we need is to make sure is that they don't retaliate to us after we hit 'em. Hard, preferably."
Svetlana fearfully asks, "But how? If they find out where you live, they will blow entire building down!"
John sighs, "Svetlana has got a point there, man. Endanger 1, and we risk condemning a whole lotta good and innocent people to an early grave. I don't need that on my conscience. Hell, none of us do."
Tommy says, "Aye, what we need is some way of distracting the bastards, making 'em look the other way, eh? I have just the thing." One can feel this Nossie flashing his crummy teeth under that mask.
Seth lifts an eyebrow, "And what might that be? I hope that you can deliver on these...claims of yours. I'd rather not have to find someone else for this crucial role."
Tommy mockingly puts his hand on his chest, "You doubting me, ya bawbag? We'll have them aww fankled and running after their own bahookies when we get tae work!"
John nods and comments, "Uh, yeah, whatever that is. Uh...we can work with that."
Seth remarks, "Excellent! You and Tommy can work out the finer details of how we can use this 'distraction' of yours to our advantage. Tommy, care to tell us what you have in mind? And, please, speak in English. I know you Scottish folk have your own crazy vernacular, but..."
The Nosferatu grumbles and harrumphs, "Get tae fuck. Hmph, fine. We'll be using our SchreckNet systems to confuse these cunts and drive 'em out into the open when needed."
John quizzes, "Uh, what the hell's that? I don't remember ever hearing that before, except, like...in the late 90s."
"Nossies only, pal. Still operational despite some wee issues and shite. The SchreckNet's been operational in this area for a long while now. Normally, we don't share, but extraordinary circumstances require extraordinary concessions."
John mumbles, "Uh, OK, sure, I guess."
Seth agrees with Tommy, "Yeah. I'm no computer whiz, not even by a long shot, heh. What about you, Svetlana? You uh...good with tech?"
Svetlana shrugs, "Da, I think so. But I am not familiar with what it is called...SchreckNet?"
Tommy's chuckle sounds like a gurgle, "It'll be easier to explain it to you personally, and show it to yous doon in the sewers. What's important now is that we find some way to make the SI dance tae our own wee tune. Understood?"
The Nossie gets a bunch of nods from everyone except Mark, who doesn't appear to be paying much attention.
"Oi, Kincaid!"
The Blue Blood is snapped out of whatever stupor he was in. He hastily nods and lazily gesticulates, "Yeah, yeah, yeah, s--sure. You use the SchreckNet to frazzle-dazzle the SI and uh...yeah." His body is here, but his mind appears to be somewhere else.
After a moment of silence, Joyce and Tristan enter the room once more and announce the arrival of the Toreador Harpy, Paul.
Paul's hair is disheveled and wind-swept. He's wearing a white shirt that's been tucked into his dark blue pants. There's a silver chain hanging around his neck, and he's wearing black shoes.
The Harpy looks frantic when he says, "Hey. So, you've uh...all seen the news, right?"
Seth nods, "Yes. What took you so long, Paul?"
Paul vaguely gesticulates, "Traffic, man. It was...it was nuts on the way here! A whole lotta roads were blocked, they were performing random stop-and-checks, and it was just a big mess. I managed to get through, though." He forcefully smiles at the end.
Seth gives him a thumbs up, "Good work, Paul. Now, sit down, relax, and let's talk about our next move."
The Harpy obliges and takes his seat. He politely greets everyone else, throws his head back, and pulls out a vape pen. The casing is transparent and in a shade of dull, rosy red. Paul takes a few puffs from it and lets the smoke billow out of his mouth.
Seth clears his throat, "So, we're all agreed on what to do, right? Right?"
Tommy nods, "Aye. I'll need some wee time to get some shite aww set up, but rest assured, the Blade of Haqim and whoever wants tae fight these SI bastards will be having our full support."
John presses his lips into a tight smile, "That's good to hear, Tommy. Thank you. So much."
"Aye, nae be thanking me yet, Assassin. Just promise to chib some cunts for us when the time comes." The Nossie sounds almost giddy.
Seth chortles, "Oh, I'm sure he will. Heh, I'm sure he will." He looks at Svetlana and adds, "You, too, Svetlana. I'm sure you'll have your fill."
Svetlana merely nods.
Absalom is the next to speak, "The Malkavian Clan shall conduct its own fight. If anyone wishes to join me, then you are more than welcome to do so." He shoots a sideways glance at Mark and Seb.
Mark squirms, "I...didn't think that it'd come to this, honestly."
Absalom firmly questions, "Is there no one amongst the Ventrue Clan who would be willing to aid us?" he looks around the room, as if trying to find someone to volunteer.
Mark sighs, "I'll look around, Absalom. There might be, like, a few. But, I'll have to check. Pretty much every Ventrue in this city is a high-roller; so, I'm not so sure how many of 'em would be willing to get down and dirty with the Second Inquisition."
Sebastian scratches his forehead with his thumb, "Yeah, we Toreadors are 'high-rollers', too. But, I'll look into that spy angle a bit more- I'm sure there's plenty of 'em in the fashion world now that I think about it."
Vizier Mohammed, ever the opportunist, jumps in, "If you require assistance, Mr. Sebastian, Mr. Kincaid, then I would be more than happy to lend you some of my Banu Haqim." He flashes a toothy smile at the Toreador and Ventrue Primogens.
John passive-aggressively inquires, "And what about us, hmm? For fuck's sake, we are the SAME FUCKING CLAN! Why do you always treat us like second-class citizens?! What the hell did we ever do to you?!" he sounds rather exasperated and frustrated.
The Vizier smugly replies, "You are the same Clan, yes, Mr. Suarez. But you are not of the same...vision."
Svetlana's face scrunches, "And what 'vision' is that? Every time, you always speak ONLY about Alamut. You do not talk of what is happening in world, or other things of importance. Always Alamut, Alamut, Alamut. Tch."
Seth giggles at that and cuts in, "She's uh...got a point, Mr. Khan. Your fixation, dare I say, obsession regarding this so-called paradise that you Assamites have been dreaming of for centuries is a bit...much. Don't you think?" he sounds more amused than anything else.
The Vizier scoffs, "Then, you simply fail to comprehend the majesty of Alamut, High Priest. But, I will not argue with you about this. If you wish to remain ignorant, then that is your prerogative." He haughtily sniffs and sits back on his chair.
Seth rolls his eyes and mumbles something under his breath.
John glowers at the Vizier and mutters, "Idiot." He turns to the Setite and asks, "Anything else? Speaking of, what the hell are you and your buddies gonna be doing while we're out there doing all the fighting, huh?"
Seth plainly smiles and spreads his hands, "Personally, I will be there to provide support...of a spiritual nature--"
John scoffs, "Hffph. Great. That's totally what we need."
Seth gets a tad bit annoyed by the Assamite's dismissive tone, "--and to keep morale up. You'll need that, John. You too, Svetlana. You'll all need it. Trust me. If we're gonna be fighting a war against these bastards, then we'll need all the help we can get."
He smoothly adds, "And sometimes that help needn't be material in nature. Sometimes, it's just a few words of encouragement, or some...inspiration to keep going." He smiles at Svetlana, who shyly smiles back.
John groans, "Fine, fine. Suit yourself. No, what I wanna know is what the REST OF the Ministry will be doing while we're out there fighting." He looks at the Vizier, then, at Seth.
Seth shrugs, "Whatever they want. Mr. Suarez, I'm not going to micromanage those of my Clan. Also, a lot of them don't exactly get along with the Blade and have...business interests that might conflict with your stated goals."
John sighs and raises his eyebrows, "I see. Yeah, I figured as much. Well, I guess we'll just have to take your word for it. It's not like we have any other choice here." He doesn't sound very convinced.
Svetlana chimes in, "At least tell your Clan to lay low and not breach Masquerade, no?"
Seth softly chuckles, "Ah, Svetlana...Ms. Bobrov, the Masquerade has been cracked, but it hasn't quite been breached yet. I hope to keep it that way. We'll just have to do our best to contain the damage while simultaneously striking back." He's not sure who or what he's trying to convince.
John and Svetlana look at each other and nod.
The Harpy gets a word in, "Wow, I have no idea how we're gonna pull this off...extra muscle wouldn't hurt. I know the Vizier's got his own silly little problems with the Blade, Mark's all over the place right now, Seb's an idiot, Tommy's willing to get along- good- and Absalom...well, never mind."
The Elder shoots a baleful glance at the Harpy and demands, "Degenerate, if you have something to say, then speak. My ego is not as fragile as you might have assumed."
Paul takes another puff of his e-cig and slowly blows the strawberry-smelling smoke out, "You scare people just by looking at them. I'm sorry, but it's true." He looks at Mark, who doesn't appear to be paying attention.
Absalom explains, "It is the Bane of my Clan, Harpy. I will concede that my Unnatural Manifestations do indeed leave quite an impression on people, be they mortal, Ghoul, or Cainite, but it is simply the way of my Blood- I cannot help it."
The Toreador Harpy clicks his tongue, "Yeah, that...explains things. Still, you gotta stop staring at folk so goddamn much- it's unsettling and eerie!"
John blandly remarks, "That's Absalom for ya. Now I understand why we barely talked back in Dubai, heh. Anyway, I'll go and speak to Abdullah, and see if we can rally the others, y'know?"
Seth nods, "Sure, go ahead, John. Do what you have to do on your part. Truth be told, I'm kinda waiting to see the Blade of Haqim in action. I've heard the stories of what you people do, but to see 1 in action, oh, I'm sure it'd be a sight to see."
He has a sinister, almost creepy grin plastered across his face.
The Setite has an almost lewd look in his eyes when he gazes at Svetlana, and there's an unmistakable tone of desire to his voice. She nervously shifts in her chair, as if trying to look away from him without drawing too much attention.
John, thankfully, interjects, "Well, I'm not sure we'd want an audience watching us. What we do, we don't do for the entertainment of others. We Judge the unjust, we Judge those who the courts and institutions of 'law' would never be able to touch in a million years."
He emphatically adds, "And most importantly, the Blade fights for a free Palestine. Israel has been getting away with too much over the years, it's time someone...bit back."
The Typhonist makes a show of slowly clapping his hands, "Bravo, bravo. Oh, we're gonna bite back, alright. Don't worry. As long as everyone does their part, we'll rid this whole country of the Second Inquisition threat, heh."
His amber eyes seem to shine unnaturally and there's a sinister smirk on his face, as if the Setite has got some ulterior motives that aren't immediately apparent.
John can't quite tell if the guy is legitimately nuts, or just playing at it.
Paul cuts in, "All good and well, but without extra support, we might as well kiss our Havens goodbye before they inevitably come tumbling down. I know the Tremere in Abu Dhabi won't budge because of their issues with the Banu Haqim, but there have to be other options that we're not seeing here."
Seth perches an eyebrow, "Like?"
Paul takes his time to answer. He finishes puffing from his vape pen, and plays with it. He then leans back and shrugs, "Gallagher. You 2 are close, and he's a pretty fucking violent guy. Normally, I wouldn't stoop so low, but we're desperate here."
Surprisingly, Seth agrees, "Yeah, I was thinking about him too. Don't worry about his um...past problems. He's been of great service to me and my Clan over the years. I trust Ewan with my Unlife and I hope that you'd extend the same courtesy." He smiles and waits for everyone's response.
The Nosferatu Primogen cackles and laughs at Seth, "Ewan? Oh, that's a right bawbag! But, Harpy's got a point- we could use a blockhead like him."
Mark dryly shrugs, "Uh...sure. He's mean, loutish, violent, and kinda fucked in the head, but we REALLY could use some extra help, y'know?"
The Elder Malkavian grimly notes, "Yes, the former Sheriff of Dubai sounds like an ideal fit for such a task, if not for his deeply violent past and tendency to indulge his Beast."
The Toreador Primogen says, "Sure, so long as I don't get any blood...or other stuff on my clothes or my friends' REALLY fucking expensive clothes, then yeah, Gallagher sounds like an...OK bet to me. Not the best, but not the worst damn choice in the toolbox, either."
Vizier Mohammed opines, "If the High Priest trusts Mr. Gallagher, then all is well. Perhaps he would be more reliable than those of the Blade."
John shoots a bitter look at his Clan's Primogen, "Fuck you, you spineless, sycophantic, sniveling, little sh--"
Seth quickly steps in and sternly commands, "Mr. Suarez. Stop. This isn't a college campus protest, alright? Back off."
John shakes his head and grunts. Svetlana glowers at the Vizier and clenches her fist. The look on her face is one of pure disgust.
The Ventrue Primogen finally speaks up, "Hey, uh, can I go now? I...gotta check on certain things."
Sebastian mumbles, "Yeah, like all the debts you owe to half this city--"
Seth tsks, "Ah, ah, ah. Personal problems aside, for the time being at least. Mr. Kincaid, if there's any way that I could help you, please, feel free to reach out, hmm?"
Mark's eyes dart around and he quickly nods, "Yeah, yeah, thanks. Sure, sure. I'll keep that in um...mind. Hmm."
Paul wonders, "What's his problem??"
His fellow Toreador blithely answers, "Freebie-whoring, that's what. Fancy Blue Blood here has been spending waaaay too much time in the fancy and elite clubs, blowing money he don't have and going in way over his head. Moron."
He bitterly chuckles and adds, "Now, he has debt collectors after him for everything he owes to half the goddamn city."
The Harpy sighs and shakes his head, "I've tried warning him about this before. I told him that overdoing Dominate was gonna screw people's heads up and turn it into mush, but...the Ventrue are Arrogant and don't like being told what to do. Right, Mark?"
Mark mutters, "Yeah. Whatever. Rub it in. All of you. Goddamn it." He looks bitter and saddened now that a part of his secret is out.
Seth softly says, "Mark, if you need some help, just let me know. I won't charge you anything," he smiles at the Ventrue, who doesn't look very enthusiastic about anything at the moment.
Mark softly murmurs, "Sounds tempting. Is it, like, what, therapy?"
The Setite High Priest scoffs, "No, it's so much more than the nonsense the world offers. Right now, you really could use some spiritual guidance. You really could use some of Typhon's boundless benevolence in your Unlife." He sounds smooth and sly at the same time.
Mark blandly says, "I'll keep that in mind." He gets up, dusts himself, and walks out the door, shoulders slumping and head hanging low.
Seth sighs, "So, we have a plan, right? Right. The rest of you are free to go. John, I hope that you and Abdullah manage to round up the remaining Blade of Haqim members- make sure they know what and who we're up against."
John looks at his Childe, then at Seth, "I'll be sure to relay the message. With our current numbers, I'm sure a lotta them won't be too eager to jump in, but I'll try my best to convince them."
Absalom stands up and says, "I shall do what I can, High Priest. After all, there are those amongst my Clan who wish for vengeance after what happened a few weeks ago, in Dubai."
Seth smiles, "Any help is better than no help. And how will you be personally contributing to our little...crusade, hmm?"
"I shall utilize the power of my Auspex Discipline to locate that which the others might not be able to discern." The Elder Malkavian gives a curt nod and promptly leaves the room.
John and Svetlana get up to leave. Seth looks at the 2 of them and says, "Don't forget about your training. Heh, not that I need to remind you, but still- you're gonna be up against people who know what we are."
John dryly nods, "We know."
Svetlana looks at the ground before looking at Seth, "I remember all that my Sire has taught to me. I am ready to fight, Seth, for all that is good in this world."
Seth can't help but smile when he hears her voice, "That's...good to hear. And remember, if you need help, come to me. I'll be glad to share but a portion of the blessings that Typhon has so lavishly bestowed upon me." He looks more at Svetlana than at John when uttering that.
The Assamite raises his eyebrows and drags his Childe out of the room.
Paul remarks, "Sheesh." He takes another puff of his vape pen and blows the smoke into the air.
Seth looks at the Harpy, "Something the matter, Mr. Devers?"
The Harpy snickers, "You uh...like that Assamite?"
Tommy wolf-whistles, "You randy awl dog! Ah, ye fancy 'er, eh, eh!" the Nossie laughs and slaps his knees.
Seth looks embarrassed for a few seconds, then, he laughs it off, "Hahaha. I just...find her fascinating is all."
Seb callously remarks, "She's just a generic Slavic bimbo, petite, stupid, and oh-so-easy on the eyes."
Seth scoffs and glowers at the Toreador Primogen, "Hmph, well, I'd say she's a lot more than that, Mr. Gorsky."
The Harpy chimes in, "Yeah, Seb, watch that fucking mouth of yours. Unless you WANT Svetlana to slap you again. Asshole."
"Fuck you, Paul."
In a very passive-aggressive way, the Harpy slowly gets up and walks towards the door. He turns around and says, "I'll be uh...I'll be checking on some of my contacts. I'll let you know if I get anything. Something's bound to turn up. Toodaloo! But not you, Seb, you goddamn Karl Lagerfeld wannabe, heh."
He twirls his fingers and saunters off to speak to someone else.
Sebastian grunts and rubs his nose, "Goddamn people. I'm so fucking tired of all this shit sometimes."
Tommy laughs, "What are yous tired of, pal? You nae work multiple jobs, you nae got any immediate issues to worry about. You're a fucking pretentious fashion designer who hasnae designed any good shite in years, pal!"
Sebastian turns his full attention to the Nossie, "Fuck would a Sewer Rat like you know about high fashion?"
"Quite a lot, actually. A close mate of mine showed me some designs on this wee website called Tumblr- they look eerily similar to your marked-up and expensive shite, pal. Care to explain or is all just a massive coincidence?"
The Toreador looks shocked and disgusted, "Ew! Gross! Tumblr?! What the--"
Tommy points out, "I did more digging and came to a wee conclusion."
Seth joins in, eyebrow raised in amusement, "Yes? Which is?" He seems to be enjoying this.
"You, my friend, have been stealing all these designs from a bunch of teenage lasses for YEARS now and writing them off as yer own!" the Nossie points his deformed and misshapen finger at the Toreador.
Sebastian gasps, "Excuse me?! Who in the fuck do you think you are?! I will NOT stand for such lies! My designs are all my own! I--I'm gonna call my goddamn lawyer and he's gonna bury you in so much shit, you'll be drowning in it!"
Tommy shakes his head at this empty threat, "Aw, please. You know that neither of us can enter a court. You're old and I'm me. Naw, mate."
Lowering his voice, he points out, "You know 1 of those lasses committed suicide a while back? Dirty bastard, yous." He shakes his head in disgust.
In response, Seb callously says, "Oh, please. Don't try to pin something like that on ME, OK?! Sure, I--I trace some things here and there and look around for inspiration, but--but--"
Seth interjects, "What happens on the Internet, stays on the Internet. As long as Sebastian's...indiscretions don't jeopardize what we currently have going on here, then I see no valid reason to bring all of this out into the open."
The Setite turns to the Crawler, "Drop whatever you think you've 'found' or 'got' on Mr. Gorsky here. We don't need this kind of drama and posturing right now. ESPECIALLY now. Drop. It."
Tommy growls, "It's a matter of principle, of Humanity! If this walloper is willing to steal from a bunch of desperate kids on the Internet, who knows what else he's willing to do, how low he's willing to go, to further his own personal agenda."
Sebastian scoffs and snorts, "Yeah, right. I'm sure you've got your own fucking personal agenda here. What's with you getting all cozy with the Blade? What's your angle with them, huh?"
"None yer business, ya bawbag."
Sebastian angrily claps back, "Well, you and your buddies down in the sewers see fit to poke your ugly noses in mine--"
Seth shakes his head and holds his arms up, "Gentlemen, gentlemen. Enough. Look, I know things are tense right now. Please, understand that the enemy we face doesn't give a shit about which Clan we belong to, how old we are, or what we've got cooking."
He adds, "They'll destroy us all the same. Nosferatu, Toreador, Ventrue, it doesn't matter to them. Look, just put everything else on the backburner for a while, OK? A few weeks is all I'm asking here, maybe shorter, heh."
Tommy throws his hands up in resignation, "Fuck it. Go on, take his side. How many more desperate and lonely teenagers are gonnae take their lives because this fucker decided to help himself to their hard work and talent? You got a number, pal? Huh?"
Seth looks a bit frustrated. He glances at Seb, who's looking downright furious.
Finally, the Setite declares, "My point still stands. If you want, sort this out amongst yourselves, in your own time. I'm not some arbiter or mediator here. I'm just the High Priest of Typhon- nothing more, nothing less." The insincerity is quite apparent, especially in the latter part of his little speech.
"But," he adds, "I'd like to remind you that the fate of our entire Domain is at stake. Our entire Unlives are at stake. I'm not gonna stand here and listen to you 2 squabble and argue about nonsense, quite frankly. People kill themselves all the time, it's just...life."
"Cannae be that callous! They're teenagers, pal!"
Seth holds up his snake cane, "I've heard enough. I suggest you prepare your fellow Nosferatu for the nights ahead, hmm?"
Tommy gets the hint and springs up from his seat. He storms off without bothering to say another word or speak to anyone else in this building.
Once the Nossie is out of earshot, Seth sighs in relief, "God, I thought that I wouldn't hear the end of it. That grated Scottish accent is like steel claws on chalkboard, heh."
Sebastian shuts his eyes and turns aside, whispering something to himself repeatedly.
After a few moments of silence, the Toreador Primogen fearfully says, "I should uh...I should probably have someone sweep for bombs in and around my Haven. I paid a lot for my place, and I don't want anyone blowing it to kingdom come."
Seth nods in understanding, "I can relate."
Vizier Mohammed queries, "What about your...compound, Mr. Steale? Is it secure?"
Seth smiles, "Of course. I have mercenaries guarding it round the clock- day and night. No one's gonna try anything funny, don't you worry."
Mr. Khan smiles back, "That is good to hear."
The High Priest paces a tight circle and proclaims, "Truth be told, we're all in the dark here. But, we can use that to our advantage."
Sebastian dryly remarks, "I guess. I'll just be uh...gonna go now, OK? See ya, and uh...good luck with whatever." He leaves without even bothering to look at or say bye to anyone else.
Vizier Mohammed Khan and Seth Steale are left alone in the room.
The Vizier offers, "I do not know if it would be possible, but I will speak to Ms. Kawasaki. Given her invaluable experience and knowledge, she would likely be of great help to us."
"Good thinking, Mr. Khan. Let me know if she's willing to play ball."
The Vizier stands up, respectfully bows his head, and gracefully walks out of the room. He catches a few Kindred to speak with about...less-important matters.
Such as Alamut and its alleged splendor.
Seth watches as the Banu Haqim Primogen leaves the room and sighs in relief, "Finally, I thought he'd talk MY head off about Alamut or whatever. Hmm, now what?"
After an hour or so, Gallagher shows up and briefs his fellow Setite on the situation thus far, "Authorities wanna keep going business as usual and all that, but stuff's all over the World Wide Web."
"Here," he pulls out his phone and shows Seth a YouTube video of the Marjan Tower coming down. Floor after floor after floor is obliterated and the thick dust obscures everything.
The Setite watches the footage in morbid fascination. His serpentine eyes dart around, as if he's trying to analyze every last detail.
So far, that video alone has amassed millions of views and 1000s of outraged comments demanding that the Emirati authorities investigate the matter.
A comment with 10,000 likes (and climbing) plainly says: "Gas leak my ass. Do the Emirati authorities take us for complete idiots?? This was obviously done by someone! Shame on you!"
Another comment with 23,000 likes reads: "There's something we're NOT being told, no doubt about it."
"LET AN INDEPENDENT ORG PROPERLY LOOK INTO THE MATTER MORE!!" 13,000 likes and 400 replies.
Another comment reads: "This is eerily similar to the AJRT 'gas leak' back in DXB 5 years ago. Coincidence? Maybe, maybe not." 8K likes and 1000s of replies.
Gallagher gets his phone back and proceeds, "They're doing everything they can to cover this up. Hell, I even heard someone got fucking arrested for demanding answers."
Seth scoffs, "Hmph. Typical."
Ewan continues, "Yeah, they're calling this a 'gas leak', but there's no goddamn proof. Still, it's probably the smartest thing for 'em to say, heh. 'Course, they'll just have to spin more lies once this video goes more viral."
Seth indifferently says, "Not our problem. Between me and you, Ewan, what happened tonight was...good."
Gallagher's eyebrows shoot up in surprise, "Wha--?"
Seth casually goes on, "The Caitiff were becoming a problem. To see that a vast majority, if not all, of them were taken care of is quite comforting to say the least." He looks rather amused as he says that.
Gallagher plainly shrugs, "Uh, I mean, sure. But what if there were some of us among them?"
Seth puts his hand on Gallagher's shoulder, "Acceptable losses, old friend. Acceptable losses."
"Hmm. If you say so."
Some time later, Absalom approaches the High Priest, with Mr. Bean in tow. He says, "High Priest, I would like for you to counsel Mr. Bean."
Seth looks somewhat excited at the prospect. He ushers the 2 Seers inside and inquires, "Of course. Always. Anytime. What seems to trouble you, Mr. Bean?"
Mr. Bean, with fear written all over his face, looks at Absalom, then at Seth, "Uh...I used to live at the uh...Marjan Tower."
Absalom remains quiet, his intense gaze laser-focused on his fellow Seer. He nods, as if to backup Mr. Bean's statement.
Seth leans back and casually replies, "Oh, is that so? I see." He gives Gallagher a subtle look. The ex-Sheriff just rolls his shoulders and walks away.
Seth leans forward and motions for Mr. Bean to go on, which he does, "I made a lotta friends there- Kindred and mortal alike. I grew close to 'em."
"OK. Go on."
Mr. Bean's hands tremble, tears of blood start to run down his cheeks. He stammers, "I just wanna know...why they had to--I wanna know why!" The pain of the recent loss of his friends, acquaintances, and neighbors is so vivid in his words.
He stumbles upon his words when asking, "Why--why the kids, man? They--we fed on them from time to time because we were just as desperate as they w--were. But, they were good people, I swear! I mean, yeah, I don't know where exactly the kids came from, but we took 'em in as best as we could."
Absalom comments, "It is of little use to dwell on what was and what might have been."
What follows is a farce of a "counselling session". Seth Steale is no licensed therapist (not by a long shot). In lieu of actual solutions, he provides his usual brand of obscurantist woo-woo and unhelpful nonsense to "comfort" Mr. Bean.
Time passes and the minutes go by. There's some commotion in the main lounge area.
Seth stands up to go and see what it is. The goon who usually guards the front door is flung inside. He crashes on the ground and groans in pain.
In walks a person wearing a zipped-up leather jacket, dark jeans, and a full-face helmet that completely obscures and covers all of their features.
Yep, that's none other than N0S4A2- the Caitiff racecar driver. It seems that they survived the Marjan Tower bombing earlier this evening.
They push through a few more people and hand Seth a note that has some words hastily scrawled on it. The High Priest raises his eyebrows and glances at Gallagher.
Gallagher steps forward and gets all up in N0S4A2's face. They growl at him, but he remains all tough and no nonsense.
The mysterious Caitiff grunts and points to the note that the High Priest reads silently. They seem to be impatient and irritated by what's happening.
Seth summarizes the contents of the note, "Our...Unbound friend here demands to know what happened to their fellow Caitiff tonight."
Gallagher points out, "They got blown up by the SI."
This elicits a few growls from N0S4A2. They point to the note again, as if asking "What about my people?" They're probably feeling both scared and furious at the same time.
The former Sheriff rudely explains, "Well, it's not our fucking fault--"
N0S4A2 responds by smacking Gallagher right in the face, sending him flying and crashing into a wall.
The Caitiff growls, but the growling is cut short when Absalom speaks up, "Peace, friend." He sounds surprisingly calm.
Seth gives the Elder Seer an exasperated look. Absalom approaches, hands stretched out in a peaceful and almost-placating gesture, "We are not the enemy here, Orphan."
N0S4A2 spits out a few muffled words, "Why didn't you people do anything?!"
Seth cuts in, "We didn't know that you were gonna get hit. If we did, we would've warned you about it."
"Lies. The Ministry hates Caitiff!"
Seth shakes his head, "That's not entirely true. Let's not ignore the fact that we've tolerated your presence here for decades, despite your...less-than-stellar qualities. Regardless, I say we can be civil now." He smiles at the Caitiff and does his best to seem like he's friendly and non-threatening.
Gallagher grunts and gets up. He's about to retaliate when Absalom holds him back and sternly glowers at him, "Control yourself, Sand-Snake!"
Gallagher grits his teeth and shoves the Elder's arm away, "He fuckin' hit me!"
Seth firmly orders his friend, "Gallagher, drop it."
"Hmmmpgrfh. Nobody fucking punches me and gets away with it. Consider yourself lucky, fucking Caitiff!" he wags his finger at the racecar driver and shakes his head as he takes a few steps back.
N0S4A2 shakes their head, their gloved hands clasped in front of their body, "Why did you not help us?!"
Seth incredulously asks, "How? First of all, we had no idea that the SI was planning something against you people. Second of all, it was all so sudden and caught EVERYONE off-guard. There's nothing anyone could've done. It is what it is, OK?"
"Rubbish! I think the Ministry is behind this!" N0S4A2 bluntly accuses.
Seth's eyebrows knit together, "Do you think the Ministry, my Clan, would stoop so low? Yes, we have had our differences in the past, but we'd NEVER want to hurt any of you people."
He points directly at the Caitiff, "You don't get to barge in here and hurl those kind of accusations around, OK? We could've driven you outta this city years ago, but we CHOSE to keep you around!"
The High Priest steps closer to the Caitiff, but not too close lest he end up getting socked in the face, "Those kinds of extraordinary accusations require serious proof. It's safe to assume that you have none whatsoever, hmm?"
N0S4A2 growls, "You say it was SI? What 'proof' do YOU have?"
Seth counters, "I can barely hear you under that thing- take that helmet off and we can talk about it, like gentlemen."
"No."
Absalom queries, "Why? Why conceal your identity, Caitiff? What do you stand to gain from it? As it is, you are already a famous and well-known racecar driver."
"Mind your business. Helmet stays on." Their tone is gruff, but muffled.
Seth plainly declares, "Then, we have nothing further to discuss. But lemme tell you 1 thing and lemme make this clear: the Ministry WAS NOT BEHIND THIS EVENING'S BOMBING!"
N0S4A2 doesn't even flinch.
Feeling quite exasperated, the Typhonist goes on to add, "It was the SI. The Second Inquisition. You know what that is, right? They did something similar to this 5 years ago. We've devised a plan to fight back, y'know, you're welcome to join us."
"Grrr."
Seth sighs and shrugs, "Hmm, suit yourself. Just don't expect to share in the bounties and rewards once all of this blows over, OK?" he smirks when he says that. It's obvious what the High Priest is doing here.
N0S4A2 growls, "I will get answers myself, then!" they turn on their heel and walk off.
Seth calls out, "Good luck with that! There's barely any of you left in this city, anyway! You won't get very far!"
Near the exit, N0S4A2 turns their head and looks over their shoulder, "I'll take my chances."
Seth dismissively scoffs and waves his hand, "Tch. Just go already."
Absalom says, "Now you see why my dislike of the Caitiff is warranted, yes?"
"Yep."
Gallagher winces and rubs the side of his face, "That hurt, y'know." He scowls at the closed door. He wants to go after the Caitiff, but Seth stops him.
"Nah, nah, leave them be, old friend. They'll walk into Final Death soon enough."
Gallagher belligerently declares, "I ain't betting on that fuckjob ever again. Still, if I had my chance, I could've knocked that helmet off and bagged me a good 100 grand."
Seth promises, "You'll get your reward in due time, Ewan. Come, I'll have to inform the others of the situation and any...recent developments."
Seth coolly walks to the middle of the dimly-lit lounge area, taps his snake cane on the ground, and requests everyone's attention. He's got Gallagher standing by his side.
When everyone's finally gathered around, the High Priest begins, "I'm sure that, by now, you've all heard about what's happened. In the interest of time, I won't bore you with the details."
A Setite from the front inquires, "Should WE be concerned?"
Seth shakes his head, "No, WE shouldn't. As you're aware, I've already spoken to the Primogen Council and other interested 3rd parties--"
Yet another Setite, somewhere from the back, interrupts, "Like the Blade of Haqim? Are we seriously outsourcing the dirty work to extremists and terrorists now, Mr. Steale? Is that how low and desperate our Clan has become?"
The High Priest sighs, "If you have a problem, Mr. Jones, then we can talk about it later."
Mr. Jones smirks, "Oh, we WILL, Mr. Steale. We will."
Seth allays the fears of his fellow Vipers, "Look, I'm not as keen as anyone else is about using the Blade to defeat the SI, but step back and put 2 and 2 together."
A woman folds her legs and lifts her chin, "How so?"
"The SI in this part of the world consists of Israelis..." Seth explains.
He adds, "...The Blade of Haqim has a very dim view regarding the State of Israel. I figured that we might as well use it to our advantage. We wind these ferocious Assamites up and let them loose on our common enemies."
Someone slowly claps, almost in a mocking manner, "All good and well. That plan seems logical on the surface, but have you considered what happens AFTER? What will the Blade do once they have no one left to fight?"
Seth sinisterly smiles, "Oh, I have plans for that. But, this isn't the time for such concerns. Right now, the squeaky wheel gets the grease- the SI has gotta go."
"Will my business with my Israeli clients be affected? Should I be on the watch for some Bladeite fanatic slicing the necks of everyone I know and have very important dealings with?" an old Setite asks. He's quite concerned.
Seth plainly states, "I'd keep a close eye on them. Truth be told, we don't know who we can trust now. In times like this, we should be grateful that we have Typhon to look to."
The Setites declare in unison, "All praise be to Typhon."
Seth declares, "Blessed be Typhon. Yes, yes. You see, my friends, how important our faith is? The other Kindred don't have the privilege that we have. They aren't blessed with the knowledge of Apep, as we are. It's truly a shame, isn't it? Truly."
The Setites nod their heads in agreement. Some of them even bow in the direction of the High Priest.
Seth goes on to address some other concerns that his fellow Ministers have. He constantly assures everyone that the Blade will be kept on a short (and tight) leash.
Gallagher chimes in, "Don't worry, they get outta line and I'll mess them the fuck up. Count on it." He cracks his knuckles and flashes a fiendish smirk.
The meeting is finally adjourned after about a few tense minutes or so of discussing various matters, including the Marjan Tower bombing, the impending war against the Second Inquisition, and other stuff.
The Setites here are more worried about their various small empires that they've built over the decades. It also seems like some of them haven't gotten over old grudges and past disagreements with one another.
Seth and Gallagher talk for a while in the backroom before they finally leave Elysium.
Seth says, "If worse comes to worse, we can always put 'em up in a few hotel rooms in this place."
Gallagher harrumphs, "Hmm. Paid, right?"
Seth chuckles as the elevator approaches, "Of course."
Absalom and Mr. Bean return to their Haven. Mr. Bean looks completely broken, exhausted, and drained of any and all "life". He sits down and doesn't say anything. The Elder Seer stands near the window.
Absalom begins, "I hope that the High Priest's counselling was beneficial to you."
"..."
(It wasn't.)
"I see. Understand that this is all a part of your destiny, my Childe."
"I...I have to climb staircases of corpses and ashes ju--just to get to where I am. No...where I WILL be."
Absalom sighs and shakes his head, "You must embrace it, the Blood that runs through your veins, through your mind. You cannot afford to be weak. Especially now."
Mr. Bean stammers, "I just...still can't believe it's gonna end that way."
"Regardless, when the time comes, are you prepared to do as you have told me?"
Mr. Bean gulps and hesitates for a moment before answering, "I...I think so."
"You 'think'? Are you or are you not prepared?" Absalom ominously demands.
"I--I am. Yes."
Absalom shakes his head, "I can sense your lack of confidence. It is not me that you have to reassure, it is yourself. Are you ready to do what must be done in order to fulfill your destiny?"
"Y--Yeah. I...have to do it. I saw it clearly. The axe...it was a bardiche. I can still see it, remember it, clear as day. My vision...that was so vivid." Mr. Bean sounds so scared.
Absalom patiently explains, "Destiny does not care if you want to fulfill it or not. It is your fate, your kismet, inevitable as the sunrise. I had similar visions about my own destiny."
Mr. Bean softly inquires, "Like?"
"The path ahead may seem unclear and filled with obstacles, but it must be travelled all the same. You know that better than anyone else. Do you not?"
"Mm-hmm. I just...wish it wasn't filled with bodies. There are so many of them..."
Absalom turns to face the younger Seer, "Such is the price of one's own destiny. If it is any consolation, those who perished played their part in shaping your future."
Mr. Bean shakes his head in disbelief and goes into his room. He slams the door shut and begins to violently trash it. He wails uncontrollably, sanguine tears flowing down like a river.
The Elder Seer hears him from outside his room. He looks unemotional, unmoved by his adoptive Childe's obvious pain and anguish.
Later, around midnight, Mr. Bean is standing in the middle of his trashed-up room.
The police came by after someone reported a disturbance. Absalom was quick to reassure them that nothing untoward is going on here, just some personal problems.
The Elder Seer sits cross-legged on the floor. He seems to be meditating. Mr. Bean is curled up in a corner, quietly sobbing.
Even now, sirens are heard. Of course, the Emirati authorities are more interested in covering shit up and making sure that business can go on as usual.
Kindred weren't the only ones destroyed this evening. Numerous innocent, but down on their luck and desperate, mortals also perished in the explosion.
Every major news outlet uncritically parrots the gas leak narrative. Bereaved relatives who demand answers or some kind of compensation are given the runaround by the government (or arrested on the spot).
It's almost as if the authorities WANT to cover it up as quickly as possible. Perhaps they have something to gain? Or maybe they're just terrified of the consequences and broader implications?
Tragically, the true death toll is likely to never be known, but it's in the 100s, including little children and babies.
The media is silent about that particular detail.
The tower, after all, stood isolated and alone, completely away from "polite society". While it stood, it was nothing more than a monument to malicious neglect, avarice, indifference, and short-sighted greed.
The rich and powerful in this city (be they Kindred or Kine) merely shrug their shoulders and move on with their existence.
The city will be reeling from not only this, but also the morgue massacre. Many flights have already been cancelled, the necessary travel advisories are issued, but the Emirati authorities are constantly reassuring everyone that everything's totally safe and under control.
In other words, "Please, come to Al-Kushraf city, spend money, consume, consume, consume! Wallow in the artificiality of it all, ignore the numerous human rights violations, systemic corruption, rampant poverty, and the complete absence of justice!"
Elsewhere...
Svetlana stops by Saoirse's Haven and knocks on her door. The Tremere answers, her eyes baggy and face almost sullen.
In a very dry manner, she says, "Oh, it's you. Something the matter? Is it that...thing with the Wraith again?"
The Assamite shakes her head, "Nyet. I wanted to warn you."
Saoirse folds her arms and leans against the doorway, "About what?"
Svetlana pointedly tells the Usurper about who was truly responsible for tonight's catastrophic events.
The Tremere shakes her head, "Jaysus! I guess I shouldn't be surprised. You want to come inside and tell me more?" she invites her friend into her Haven.
Svetlana obliges and steps in. Saoirse apologizes, "I won't be able to talk for long. Work's been eatin' me time up, macushla. Sorry."
"Is no issue," Svetlana remains standing.
Saoirse's laptop is on the coffee table. There's tons of papers scattered about. She's got a pair of bulky headphones around her neck and a pen tucked behind her ear.
Svetlana explains what she knows of tonight's events and how it's all eerily similar to what happened 5 years ago.
Saoirse gravely nods, "Shite. Those bastards!"
"Da. Now we will Judge them." Svetlana has that determined look on her face.
Saoirse questions, "Is this about justice or vengeance to you?"
"Justice. They must be held accountable for what they did, no?"
The Tremere concurs with a light nod, "I agree, but in times like this, the lines between justice and vengeance tend to get blurred."
Svetlana furrows her brows, "What do you mean by that?"
Saoirse faintly sighs, "Just don't allow yourself to get used by those who mean ill, macushla. Remember that line from that poem I texted you?"
"Da."
Saoirse grimly implores and warns, "Be VERY wary of the Ministry. They're not what they seem to be on the surface."
Svetlana replies, "But, they are our allies now. We share common enemy."
The Tremere presses her lips into a thin line, "While that may be the case, you shouldn't let their offers charm you down a wrong path. You shouldn't let their evil gifts harm you."
She points out, "You're a good woman who's been through a lot. You can't afford to lose your Humanity and what makes you who you are, Svetlana."
Svetlana looks thoughtful for a few moments before nodding in understanding. She murmurs, "Da, I will remember. Always. I know what and who I fight for is good."
"Yeah. As much as I'd love to join in on this fight, I've got work, LOTS OF IT, for the next few weeks. Customer service is a...it's not all grand, love." Saoirse looks so dejected when saying that.
Svetlana puts her cold hand on her friend's shoulder, "Is no problem. We will manage with who we have."
Saoirse forces a smile, "I'm so sorry, macushla. How's...the other thing? Little Chloe's Wraith giving you any major problems?"
"Nyet. No. I think...it is reduced now."
Saoirse nods, "Good to hear."
She sighs, "I don't want to be rude or anything, but I really need to get back to me work here."
The Banu Haqim Neonate respectfully nods and takes her leave. She hugs her Tremere friend tightly and leaves the Haven.
Saoirse locks the door and gets back to her work. She plops down on the couch and slides her headphones over her ears. Her eyes glaze over as she stares at the screen and clicks through numerous tabs.
In time, the Kindred of Al-Kushraf are back in their Havens, relatively safe and unscathed. 1 thing is certain- the nights ahead will be fraught with peril and danger.
John will have to assemble the last few Blade of Haqim members in this city and begin to look for the forces of Unit 8211. Only time would tell how the ferocious struggles would pan out, and it sure has a lot to say!
Chapter 14: The Blade Begins
In another part of this blue ball we call planet Earth...
The building in this part of New York City is tall, made of glass and steel. It seems to go on for about 30 floors and there are countless windows in it.
Inside, on the 8th floor, a man is busy packing some things into a briefcase. He looks like he's in his mid-30s. His blonde hair is short and parted to the side. His dark green eyes dart around.
He nervously mutters under his breath, "Where did I put that last thing? Shit!"
An older man sitting across him gestures to what he's looking part, "Aaron, Aaron. Easy."
Aaron sighs and snatches his passport from the older man's hand, "Hmm, thanks."
"Relax, kid. It's all gonna be fine. With all the delayed and cancelled flights, you got time- plenty of it."
Aaron gives the gentleman an incredulous look and sighs deeply, "Do I?"
The older man has graying hair, a wrinkled face, and blue eyes. He's sharply dressed and appears to be pristine- very prim, polished, and proper.
He leans forward and gives Aaron a fatherly pat on the shoulder, "It'll be fine, kid. You got a good head on your shoulders and the law firm's always gonna be around. Even if you don't make partner by the end of the year."
Aaron sighs and shuts his eyes for a second. He turns to the older man and nods in appreciation, "Thanks, Mr. Stone."
Mr. Stone shrugs, "Eh, no problem. You want me to drive you to the airport?"
"No. I'll need to go home first, freshen up a bit, grab some other things."
Mr. Stone nods, "So, the UAE, huh? Al-Kushraf city. Goddamn it, kid. You picked a helluva time to go. You seen the news, right? They're calling it a gas leak. 40 floors, 100s of people dead. Shit."
"I know, I know. That's why I have to go there and do what I can do to help out. Look, you know how it is- the rich get richer and the poor are left to suffer."
Mr. Stone points out, "The UAE is notorious for human rights abuses and wanton disregard for due process. You SURE you wanna do this, especially NOW? Human rights lawyers like you aren't well-liked around those parts, especially by the higher-ups."
Aaron replies, "Someone's gotta do it. Someone's gotta stand up for those people, Mr. Stone. If not us, if not now, then who, then when?"
Mr. Stone softly smiles, "You always were the best of us, kid. A service to the Hart family name, heh."
"It's not name or fame. It's about doing the right thing. The UAE has been getting away with a lot and we've just been turning a blind eye to all of it here in the West. I can't stand idly by, not anymore."
"I get it, I get it. I really do. I just want you to be careful, OK? Remind me, who tipped you off again?"
"A woman from India. She reached out and told me all about the horrifying conditions of a few migrant workers she knows. Others won't even approach this with a 10-foot pole once they found out who the employers were."
Mr. Stone leans forward, "The usual suspects. Add to that the agencies that charge crazy sums of money in exchange for a better life abroad, and end up screwing you over. I know, kid, I've been involved in similar cases in the past."
Aaron resolutely responds, "Then, you know why this is important. Like Dubai, Al-Kushraf's glitz and glam hides so much...rot under its surface. Something's gotta give. It can't go on like this forever. It just...can't."
"Hmm. Well, I think I understand where you're coming from, Aaron," Mr. Stone nods his head in understanding. He has a very grim look on his face as he says that.
Aaron tells Mr. Stone, "We've um...even agreed to use codewords when talking about more sensitive um...matters."
Mr. Stone perches an eyebrow, "Oh? Like?"
"We've agreed to shorten something like 'Human Rights Violations' to 'Harveys'."
Mr. Stone shakes his head, stunned into disbelief, "Jesus. So...we--we can't even call it what it is anymore?! Are you KIDDING ME?!" his voice goes up in pitch. He's clearly disturbed by the revelation.
"It's only for safety purposes, Mr. Stone. I just need to be extra careful."
Mr. Stone warns, "If you can't even call it by its name, then what the hell's the point, kid? Innuendos, vague references, and self-censorship can only take you so far. We're lawyers, for god's sake, NOT spies!" he's pretty upset. There's a lot of passion behind his words.
Aaron sighs, "Look, I don't like it any more than you do, but it's the way things have to be now. Also, you never know who's uh..." he stops midway.
Mr. Stone raises his chin, "Who's what?"
Aaron shakes his touchscreen phone and lowers his voice, "Listening in these days. Spyware, bugged devices, and all that. You never know." He looks around suspiciously, as if checking to see if anyone else is listening in on their conversation.
Mr. Stone looks concerned and worried, "Ahhh. Yeah, well you have fun with those touchscreens. I'm sticking to my old slider, hahaha!"
Aaron laughs along and gets the remainder of his stuff. To be sure he's got everything, he checks things over again, "Yup, got everything."
"You sure?" Mr. Stone asks.
"Yeah. I'm sure," Aaron nods in confidence.
He adds, "I just need to swing by the apartment to pick up some other things, freshen up a bit, then it's off to the UAE!"
"Careful out there, kid. When you get back, we're gonna have to have a serious talk about your future here at VNS. Hell, maybe VNSH- the 'H' being for Hart," Mr. Stone chuckles.
Aaron smiles and waves goodbye, "Oh, yeah, absolutely. Will do. I'll keep in touch!"
He leaves the building and catches a cab that'll take him home. The trip is short and uneventful.
A human rights lawyer coming to Al-Kushraf? Things were bound to get interesting!
Some time later, at the airport...
It's quite busy, there's people going to and fro. There's security officers keeping watch for any potential threats or disturbances.
A few TV screens are placed around the place. They're tuned into local news stations that mostly talk about politics, weather, sports, and other such stuff.
Mr. Stone came to say goodbye to Mr. Hart. The latter is wearing a white-collared shirt, faded trousers, and slip-on shoes (because taking them off is so much easier when going through airport security). He's got a briefcase by his side, filled with papers and other important things.
Mr. Stone asks, "Got everything?"
"Yep."
"Cold feet, huh?"
"Mm-hmm. I can't stop thinking about that--that tower that came down. Those poor people." Aaron's gaze is downcast and sympathetic.
Mr. Stone sighs, "Yeah. A lot of them probably didn't have much to begin with. And 'human rights' are like a 4-letter word in the UAE." He shakes his head in disgust and disbelief.
"Yeah, I know. God, I just hope that I can do some good over there," Aaron looks remorseful as he says this.
Mr. Stone pats Aaron's back, "A little light can get rid of a whole lotta darkness, kid."
Aaron retorts, "But, it just feels that...the world is dark sometimes too much, like a...world of darkness sort of bubbling under the surface."
"And yet, here we are."
Aaron turns to face his senior colleague, "I'm glad you're on my side, Mr. Stone." He smiles at the older man.
Mr. Stone smirks, "I'm on the side of justice, kid. Go on, you got a long check-in to go through. You packed your best suit, right?"
Aaron softly chuckles and pulls his suitcase along, "Mm-hmm. My first ever suit, heh. It still fits...even after all those years." His eyes reflect his fondness and sentiment.
Mr. Stone comments, "Well, hopefully you can wear it at our law firm's next Christmas party."
"Hmm. I might take a little longer, I dunno, I got this feeling that--that things might get hairy over there. But, yeah, I'll try my best to be back before you know it, Mr. Stone." Aaron nods his head and goes to the check-in counter.
Mr. Stone calls out, "Don't keep us waiting, kid! VNSH!"
Aaron looks over his shoulder and pointedly responds, "Justice waits for no man, sir."
Mr. Stone snickers and shakes his head in amusement. He's always been proud of Aaron Hart. As a human rights lawyer, Mr. Hart is passionate in the pursuit of justice and his heart is always in the right place.
He's defended those who peacefully protested against the Iraq War. He's stood up for victims of state-sponsored frame-ups. He's even assisted the families of torture victims in their quest to hold the American authorities accountable.
In the end, though, the system is horrendously corrupt and riddled with flaws. Still, Aaron does what he can to squeeze through the muck and filth of it all.
He hasn't thrown in his towel. Maybe coming to Al-Kushraf (especially now) will alter the course of his life in ways that he couldn't even begin to imagine.
Back in Al-Kushraf...
The sun is rising in all its glory. The city is still reeling from the morgue massacre and the Marjan Tower bombing.
It's not like there's many places that are open now, anyway. Schools are shut until further notice. Work's been suspended and businesses have been closed. Those who could leave the city have already done so.
So, most people will spend their days at home. Most will stay inside unless absolutely necessary.
The authorities constantly say that everything's totally fine and are desperate to ensure the never-ending flow of tourism into this place.
As they've stated numerous times, "Everything's under control", and that "It was just a gas leak in some decrepit dump filled with poor and marginalized people, so no biggie".
This is despite the fact that 100s are dead (and destroyed). Many have been reported as missing. Community initiatives attempt to provide a comprehensive list of everyone who was in the tower last night.
The families weep and wail at the loss of their loved ones. A Sheikh who was involved with the construction of the Marjan Tower is provided with additional security in light of recent events.
His money, power, influence, and connections mean that he'll never face any consequences. The authorities have him in their comfy pockets.
A protest is attempted in front of his majestic house, but it's quickly broken up by police and security forces. Some of the people were beaten up and thrown in prison. Their relatives demanded answers and demanded justice.
They never received either. In fact, those who spoke up were told, in no uncertain terms, to shut up.
The Emirati authorities also attempt another angle- bribery. They try to buy the permanent silence of the protesting families. However, the relatives aren't having any of it. They're not easily bought by money or other incentives.
Then again, the more desperate amongst them might cave when they see the amount of 0s on that fucking check.
Meanwhile, the SI is already setting up its defenses for the next phase of the op. It's clear that they are ready to go to even lower lows in their mission of wiping out the Kindred in this part of the world.
They have something sinister planned and it won't be long until a clash occurs.
Amidst all this, the Ministry (most notably, the High Priest) has its own agenda and plan to carry out. Their goals may align with those of the Blade in some ways, but not in others.
The Followers of Set are willing to use anyone and anything to get to where they want to go. This is especially true in the case of Mr. Seth Steale.
Power cuts become more and more frequent due to the LVNDR system of Unit 8211 constantly siphoning energy from the city's power grid. The power stations themselves have already experienced a fire and 2 workers have been killed in an explosion.
There's been no investigation. The cause was never determined. No one has been arrested or brought to justice. The people have been forced to become so accustomed to the lack of transparency and accountability in this country that many have simply stopped caring.
The powers-that-be have essentially lulled them into being complacent, docile, and ignorant. People tragically accept whatever bullshit excuse is given and go about their business as usual.
The city's government has always relied on this kind of behavior- that the people would keep quiet and look away when things went horribly wrong.
So long as "I've" got my bread, everything's fine and dandy. The government makes sure it's kept and maintained that way, of course.
To the forces of the Second Inquisition, such attitudes are a boon, in their own way. The cavalier stance of the authorities permit these Israelis to operate with the impunity that they're so accustomed to thanks to the largesse and support of the West.
They can kill or destroy with absolute impunity here because not many really care. Even if they do, they're silenced 1 way or another. It's quite tragic and despicable.
Once the sun has fully set, the Kindred prepare to awaken and face the night ahead. Svetlana is awakened by the giggles of a little child. She gets up and finds little Chloe's Wraith flickering in the middle of her living room.
The Assamite yawns and stretches her arms and legs. Her hair's a bit disheveled and she's got a few strands sticking out in some places. She goes over to her closet and opens it.
The Wraith calls out, "Setlana! Setlana! Come play hide-seek with me! Please!"
Svetlana's lips quiver and she lowers her head in regret. Her hands grip the door of her closet tightly. She whispers, "I wish I could, little Chloe, I--wish I could."
"Please!" the long-gone child continuously pleads for the woman that was (and in some way still is) her babysitter to play.
Svetlana sighs, "I am...so sorry. Little Chloe. I have...much work to do." She slowly closes the closet door and walks past the Wraith.
The Wraith zooms past and knocks over a chair, "Nooooooo! Come back, come back! I want you to play with meeee! Plaaaaaay!" she continues to whine and beg for attention.
The Assamite's expression is sad and remorseful, but she continues walking on. She sighs and forces a few words out, "OK. Go hide now. I will find you, yes?"
"Yay! Weeeeee!" the Wraith child squeals with delight. She quickly disappears into thin air.
Svetlana hopes that'll placate the kid for a while. She heads to the bathroom and goes through the motions of taking a shower, brushing her teeth (fangs, too!), getting dressed, and going through the other usual nightly routines.
She wears a dark blue dress with a black waist belt. She slips into some white leggings and combs her blonde hair until it's silky smooth.
Her green eyes are somewhat dull. Her complexion looks paler than usual. She sits in front of the mirror and dabs on some cheap powder makeup. After that, she applies a touch of red lipstick.
Next, she sprays some perfume and then leaves her bedroom. She's done everything that she needs to do.
The Banu Haqim Neonate slips into a pair of casual flats and winces at how tightly they pinch her toes. She grabs her apartment keys, her purse, and her phone, and leaves the Haven.
Before she locks the door behind her, she shoves her 2 daggers into her purse. She walks down a few flights of stairs and takes the elevator to the main lobby of the apartment complex.
John said that he'd come by to pick her up. So, she waits. In the meantime, she finds a sufficiently dark corner to feed in. She goes through the whole rigmarole of dragging a passing mortal, subduing them, and taking ONLY what she needs from them.
Once that mortal's blood has satiated Svetlana's eternal Beast, she licks the wound closed, and gently lays the mortal down on the floor. She mutters a few words of apology to them, but they're unconscious and can't exactly hear her.
She feels absolutely horrible for doing that to this innocent person who was simply minding their own business.
John makes sure to keep his katana close by. His perfectly serviceable car chugs along the road- Abdullah's mechanic buddy did what could be done to fix it up.
As much as John would like a new car, he simply doesn't have the money for it at the moment. Besides, he's more concerned about staying "alive" and not getting his head chopped off than anything else.
Decapitation is pretty much instant lights-out for a Kindred. That and fire. And bitter cold, too.
Svetlana is waiting outside her apartment complex. When she sees John's car pull up, she goes over and gets in the passenger seat.
John smiles at his Childe, but there's uncertainty plastered on his face. The events of the last few nights have him spooked and worried.
"Da. Let us go," Svetlana is very curt, straight to the point.
John puts his foot on the accelerator and explains, "We gotta pick Abdullah up. After that, we'll have to swing by Zeina's Haven and pick her up."
Svetlana's green eyes light up, "Zeina? How is she?"
"She's fine."
Zeina also belongs to the Blade of Haqim. She's the daughter of survivors of the 1982 Sabra and Shatila massacre. She was Embraced while doing her higher studies in Iran.
Like her Sire, she had her reasons for being in the Blade- it's the best way to strike back at the state that perpetrated the massacre in the first place. Ever since her Embrace in the late 1990s, she has vowed revenge against those responsible.
That said, there are some other personal and private motivations behind her being of the Blade. She has had a very troubled past, after all.
After fleeing Dubai with the other Blade of Haqim members, Zeina found herself a job as a waitress in a mid-sized restaurant. It wasn't a very "glamorous" occupation, but it was decent enough for her immediate needs.
She utilizes a single and long dagger that she almost always carries everywhere. It's been used to slit the throats of countless foes, no doubt. It was originally a gift from her Sire's Sire- not just a token, but a mandate to Judge the unjust.
Her Sire is currently aiding the Blade somewhere in South America and helping them in their struggles there.
In a matter of moments, John's car comes to a halt in front of a rather modest-looking apartment building in a very busy and noisy part of Al-Kushraf. Abdullah steps out of the shadows.
He's smirking and he wipes some blood from the side of his mouth. He gets in the backseat and says, "As-salamu alaykum. John, Svetlana."
Svetlana greets the Blood Sorcerer, "Wa alaykumu s-salam. How are you, Abdullah?"
Abdullah merely shrugs, "I persist."
John starts the car up again and drives off to Zeina's Haven. It's quite a long way off.
Abdullah speaks up, "I still...struggle to believe that the Zionists did--did that last evening. I thought I had seen the depths of their depravity, but they continuously find new ways to...sink lower." His tone is fearful.
John concurs, "Yup. Just when you think you've seen it all, they find new and fucked-up ways to surprise you."
Svetlana chimes in, "Da. They are like the Nazis."
Abdullah responds, "And in many ways, they are worse than the Nazis due to their access to technology and endless support from the Western powers."
"Da."
John eases his foot off the accelerator, "Yeah. Tax dollars at work. Hmph."
After a short drive, the Kindred arrive at Zeina's Haven. It's an apartment building similar to Svetlana's, only there's a little more graffiti here and there, some broken windows, and a few people milling around outside.
Zeina stands under a lamppost. She's in her 20s, has olive skin, light eyes, and a scar on the left side of her face, starting from the forehead and ending below her cheek.
She's dressed in a flowery blouse, wide-legged pants, and a pair of black sandals. She also carries a purse around her left shoulder. Her dagger is likely inside there.
A burly man sits on the ground across from her, leaning against the wall. She drops some coins in a plastic cup near him and approaches John's dingy car.
"As-salamu alaykum. John. Abdullah. Svetlana."
Svetlana greets her fellow Assamite, "Wa alaykumu s-salam, Zeina. How are you?"
Zeina shrugs and hops into the backset next to Abdullah, "I am fine. How are all of you?"
John answers, "Good, good."
Abdullah responds, "It goes well."
John inquires, "How's work? You manage to uh...find something?"
Zeina equably answers, "Yes. As a waitress in a restaurant. It does not pay well, but my choices are fairly limited." She sounds wistful as she says that. Her gaze is downcast and forlorn.
Her eyes betray a hint of sadness. She looks like someone who has endured great loss and still hasn't quite gotten over it. Her past is filled with blood, tears, and tragedy. She can never escape it. It'll always be there, lurking in the shadows.
John nods, "Oh, OK."
He starts the car, reverses, and goes on to explain, "So, we're gonna meet a Nosferatu named Tommy. So far, he's the only one who's actually sympathetic to our cause."
Abdullah opines, "Despite their uncomely appearances, they are creatures of sympathy and compassion." He smiles and nods to himself in agreement. He seems to be remembering something. Some old memory, perhaps?
John continues, "He told us to meet near the industrial quarter of this city."
Zeina wiggles in her seat and throws her head back, "Walla, this car is...old." She scrunches up her face in mild discomfort. The other 3 Kindred look at her with mild amusement. They're not offended. They know that she means well. They know her.
John replies, "Best thing I could snag for a couple of dirhams, heh. Beggars can't be choosers."
Zeina dryly says, "I can very much relate."
The drive is spent catching up. Ever since fleeing Dubai, Zeina has mostly kept to herself and focused on finding a job, a place to stay, and some kind of stability and normalcy.
As the drive progresses, Zeina pulls out her phone, a simple Nokia flip phone, and dials a number. From the rearview mirror, John sees this. His eyes widen and he slams the brakes.
Without warning, he reaches over, snatches her phone, and frantically tosses it out the window. There's a brief pause where everyone is stunned. Zeina looks absolutely bewildered, Abdullah is perplexed, and Svetlana is shocked.
John looks over his shoulder and yells, "WHAT THE FUCK WERE YOU THINKING, ZEINA?! THEY MONITOR EVERYTHING!"
Zeina gasps and stammers, the words unable to leave her lips, "I--I--I was just calling my friend! She lives here and--"
John cuts her off, "NO! NO! Don't you get it!? We can't afford to use a cellphone or anything like that, especially NOW! Those assholes took down an entire building because they were able to trace the phones!" he's practically livid now. His voice has gone up in pitch.
He's clearly upset, angry even.
He takes a deep breath and shakes his head. He tries to calm himself down and lower his voice before continuing, "They might be able to do the same with any--any device."
Abdullah wordlessly switches his phone off, as does Svetlana. John follows his own advice and turns his own phone off, too. Zeina's Nokia flip phone lays somewhere on the side of the road, mildly damaged. She quickly and wordlessly retrieves it.
She sheepishly apologizes, "I..."
John sighs deeply, looking regretful for that outburst, "I'm sorry, Zeina. It's just...we can't afford to be sloppy. Not when the stakes are so goddamn high." He sounds very apologetic.
The outburst was completely uncalled for!
Zeina's lip quivers and she's on the verge of sanguine tears, "I am--so sorry. I did not--I did not mean to endanger us." She mumbles something in Arabic and John begins driving again.
The ride to the industrial quarter of Al-Kushraf city is tense. There's a lot more police checkpoints on the way. John also keeps checking the rearview mirror to ensure that no one is following him.
Almost every minute, he does this. It's as if he's expecting someone to pull up behind him and start shooting at them. After what happened in the last few nights, he's got good reason as any to be paranoid.
His grip on the steering wheel is tighter and his jaw is clenched. He's trying to calm himself down and keep his emotions in check. He doesn't want to snap like that again. He knows that he needs to be better.
Finally, after about an hour or so, the 4 Kindred are nearly at their destination. Their surroundings are sparsely-lit, desolate, and rather grim. It's as if they're in some other part of the city that time forgot.
On the corner of the dirt road, the 4 Assamites spot a group of people near a large and unmarked black van. The people around the van appear to be dressed plainly (almost too much so).
John narrows his eyes, slows down, and kills the headlights. A more primal instinct within him tells him that there's danger afoot. He can sense it. It's almost like an intangible 6th sense.
He's got a feeling that these aren't good people. He doesn't know WHY he feels that way, but he just does for whatever reason. His undead hairs stand on edge.
Svetlana notices this and nervously asks, "John, what is problem?"
Abdullah leans forward and squints at the scene, "Indeed, what IS the matter, habibi? Why did we stop all of a sudden?" his eyes reflect the same suspicion. He can feel it, too. Something isn't right. He's certain of it!
Zeina pokes her head out of the window and points, "They are...not the ones we seek, are they?" she also has a strange feeling.
The Kindred possess such heightened senses that it's almost impossible for them to be wrong about such things.
John mutters, "I have a bad feeling about this."
Abdullah muses, "Maybe they are tourists who took a wrong turn and got lost?"
Zeina shakes her head, "No tourist would come to a...place like this." She does a wide, sweeping gesture at the dreary, dimly-lit surroundings. The industrial quarter is eerily quiet and devoid of any activity at this time of night.
The only sounds that can be heard are those of chittering insects and some swaying trees. The air is hot and heavy. The place is very much a ghost town. It's as if these Kindred have just discovered another, separate city.
The group of people by the unmarked van are having a heated discussion about something.
Just then, John's ears perk up when he hears what sounds like a clicking sound, similar to that of cocking a gun. It's coming from the direction of the people gathered around the van.
Abdullah's eyes go wide and he gasps, "Those are..." he stops midway.
John looks skeptical, "SI? Out here--"
The people near the van turn to the car, flashlights in high-beam. Without warning, they begin to open fire. The car is relentlessly pelted with bullets. Svetlana shrieks and ducks down. Abdullah grabs the sides of his head and curls up in fear.
John tries to get the car to go, but the tires have been shot and punctured.
"Shit, shit, shit!"
Yep, they're Second Inquisition, alright. What they're doing out here is anyone's guess.
Zeina's door gets jammed and a few bullets whiz past her face and shatter the glass at the back of the car. John gets hit by a bullet in the arm, but the wound quickly heals itself.
"Fuck! Shit! They're fucking shooting at us!"
Svetlana kicks her side of the door open and takes cover near some boulders. She reaches into her purse and pulls out 1 dagger. She readies herself for a fight, "I will get near them!"
Zeina follows suit and scampers to a different position. She reaches into her purse and pulls out her own dagger.
John readies his Celerity Discipline. Within an instant, he's out of the car and running in a straight blur towards the goons. The agents open fire on him, but he zigs and zags with great speed.
He gets shot in the chest and stomach a few times, but he continues on, undeterred.
With katana in hand, he swiftly cuts down 1 agent after another. Svetlana activates her Obfuscate Discipline and quickly closes the large gap between herself and the shooters.
She reveals herself right in the middle of the fray and begins stabbing her dagger into any agent that she can get her hands on. She grunts and drives her obsidian dagger into the agent's neck, blood oozing from the wound.
She ducks a punch from another and then throws her dagger right into their stomach, causing them to fall down. The wounded agent screams and clutches the side of her stomach.
Svetlana gets on top of that wounded operator, raises her dagger high in the air, and swiftly buries the dagger into her face. Her skull is pierced by the weapon and her cries for help are immediately silenced.
Meanwhile, John uses his Celerity (and his katana) to devastating effect. He's such a blur, that an operator cries out, "He's too fast--" his head is then sliced off by John's katana.
Blood sprays in the air, staining John's shirt and face. His fangs elongate as he looks around at the carnage and bloodshed.
A few more plainclothes operatives begin to open fire. Zeina sneaks up behind 1 of them, drags them away and buries her dagger into the side of their throat, her expression blank.
Abdullah slits his wrist, says something in Arabic, and uses his Blood Sorcery Discipline to create a red mist around the last few Inquisitors.
He raises a blood-coated hand in the air and calls upon the unnatural powers of his versatile Discipline to control a pool of blood from a slain agent.
Using that (and a bit of his own Vitae), he thickens the red mist around the remaining shooters and makes it cling to their faces, causing them to cough and struggle for air.
Some of them gasp and fall down, desperately grabbing at their throats. The vampires are unaffected. John quickly finishes off the last few stragglers with his katana. Gurgles and choking can be heard. The gory massacre continues.
Svetlana deftly moves, ducking desperate punches, and stabbing with such ferocity that she feels her Beast growling within her, demanding more. With those daggers, she's truly a force of nature!
Blood stains her clothing, face, hair, and skin. There are some scratches on her body from her getting a bit too close to her targets and having their fists land on her.
Some operatives pull out long, wooden stakes and desperately rush towards John. He dodges to the side, twirls his katana, and impales a charging operative on it, blood gushing from his body as John drives his blade into him.
An Inquisitor wielding a wooden stake rushes at Abdullah. The Kindred manages to use his superior reflexes to dodge a stab that could've left him vulnerable.
Abdullah hisses and spits out some corrosive Vitae from his mouth. The agent whimpers in agony and Zeina comes to finish them off with her dagger. She slashes at the agent's jugular with such brutality that the agent's blood spurts everywhere.
His face is still burning from Abdullah's Vitae. He weakly claws at it, as if trying to soothe his pain. Eventually, he chokes on his own blood and dies when Zeina stabs her dagger right into the center of his neck.
"The Blade Judges you."
After the last agent's neck has been severed by Svetlana's daggers, the entire field is silent.
Svetlana looks around, a few beads of bloody sweat dripping down the side of her face. Corpses of plainclothes SI goons lie everywhere. John is heaving from that fight. The wounds from the bullets slowly heal and mend themselves.
The smell of blood is intoxicating. The sight is rather macabre. It looks like someone painted the surrounding area with buckets and buckets of blood.
John looks at his car, which has now been riddled with bullets, and shakes his head, "Goddamn! I just got it fixed..."
Abdullah sits on the dusty ground and gathers his composure for a moment. Zeina surveys the scene and makes sure that no one else is coming.
After a brief silence, she whispers something to herself in Arabic, shakes her head and walks towards Abdullah. He's got some scratches on him and his face is drenched in blood.
Svetlana stands frozen in her spot, entire body shaking from the intensive brutality of that unexpected ambush.
John goes over and side-hugs her. He reassures his Childe, "It's OK. They're all dead now. G--Good work, you handled it pretty well."
Svetlana wordlessly nods, her grip tightening on her ceramic dagger.
John checks in on Abdullah and Zeina. The former gets up and turns a random body over. He searches for anything that can clue him in on what the Inquisitors are doing all the way out here.
After checking all the corpses and going through the clothes of a few of them, Abdullah finds only touchscreen phones, ammo, a few concealed weapons, and nothing else of value.
No wallets, no IDs, no other form of identification whatsoever. It's like they just appeared out of thin air, with nothing else to identify who or what they are.
Abdullah fearfully remarks, "We must leave now! Someone else might come!"
John concurs, grimly nodding, "Yeah. What the hell were they doing out here?!"
Abdullah goes over and hands whatever he found over to John, "Here, this is all that was on them, habibi."
John tries a few phones, but all of them are password and numerically locked. He grunts and throws 1 aside, "Damn it!"
Abdullah looks at a phone from all angles.
Zeina suggests, "Why don't we take this with us?"
John shakes his head, "NO! If they're tracking us, you can bet that they're tracking their own people's phones, too! No, it's risky. Chances are they've got it rigged to blow if we mess with it too much or tamper with it."
Svetlana suggests, "Let's take with us and we check when we get back."
John retorts, "No, absolutely not, Svetlana. I'm not taking chances! WE are not taking chances!"
Abdullah smartly offers, "Why not remove the SD cards at least? Our enemies will not be able to track the SD cards as well as they would track the full devices, yes? Maybe there is some information that we could use from those SD cards, hmm?"
John ponders, "Hmm, yeah, yeah. OK."
Abdullah's fingers deftly go through each phone, pulling out the SD cards and putting them in his pockets.
John shakes his head in dismay, "Fucking goddamn people. Tommy's not gonna be pleased to hear about this, that's for sure."
True, the SI's plainclothes patrol was right near where they were supposed to meet that Nosferatu. Something is amiss here, clearly.
Some time later, at the intended meeting spot...
Tommy isn't there. Instead, he's sent someone else in his stead. This particular Nossie is wearing a somewhat tattered thawb, a thick green shemagh that covers his entire face, and brown sandals with socks.
He introduces himself as Garth. He's tall, thin, and has pale and sickly-looking skin. Boils and numerous scars cover the visible parts of his body. He speaks with a rough British accent of some sort.
He interrogates the 4 Assamites, "What took you so long? I was starting to think you lot weren't going to make it 'ere!"
John pants and rests against a crate. The meeting location is some warehouse with corrugated sheet metal for walls. The floor is grimy and covered in dust. The roof has a few holes in it, but it's mostly intact.
There are many crates stacked on top of each other. Some of them have labels on them. Others don't.
The other 3 Assamites look worn out as they had to help push John's car all the way here. They're also quite shaken by the unexpected attack from the SI. Their minds are racing with questions.
They're still trying to process what just happened.
Svetlana's eyes dart around the place, "We were attacked. SI."
Garth grunt-growls, "Cor blimey. Was it far from 'ere? Did you lot manage to deal with it or did you just merely shake them off?" he folds his arms and awaits an answer.
Abdullah straightforwardly replies, "We killed all of them."
The Nossie stifles a gasp, "Well, well, well. Tommy was not lying when he said you lot were vicious. Doubted it at first, I did! Now, now. What do you 'ave for us? You didn't come 'ere just for me stunningly good looks, eh?" he chuckles and winks.
It's meant to be a joke, but he looks (and sounds) utterly horrifying when he does it.
Zeina sits on a rickety chair, but it quickly collapses under her weight. She scrunches up her face at that. Her eyes look weary and exhausted when she gets back up and dusts herself off.
The adrenaline is slowly wearing off and she's realizing that they might've dodged a very, VERY close bullet there.
John speaks up after gathering his composure, "They started shooting at us. We had no other choice but to defend ourselves."
Garth spreads his hands, "No need to explain yourself, lad. We understand all too well what kinds of arseholes you lot are up against." He's genuinely sympathetic to their plight.
The Nosferatu paces around the floor and tries to collect his thoughts.
John silently motions for Abdullah to hand over the SD cards that they had managed to pull from the SI plainclothes operatives. Garth quickly takes them and examines them closely. His eyes flicker from side to side.
John explains, "We got 'em from their phones. Abdullah here was the one who suggested we pull the SD cards out."
Garth examines the 7 SD cards in his clammy palm, "Good call, lad. Good call. You sure you weren't followed?"
John shakes his head, "My car's all busted up- again. We had to push it all the way here. We...we definitely weren't followed."
The Crawler holds up an SD card between his forefinger and thumb, "Hmm. Interesting."
Svetlana comes forward and queries, "Will Nosferatu Clan be able to find something from that?"
"It depends, love. We MIGHT get something useful from our tormentors, but there's also a small chance that it might 'ave some kind of backdoor virus installed deep in it. So, yeah," Garth puts all the SD cards in a small cloth pouch and pulls the drawstrings tight.
Zeina keeps her eyes focused on the entry and exit points of this place, half expecting another SI attack to come at them any second now. Her grip on her dagger tightens. She's not willing to risk her Unlife- nor the Unlives of her companions- ever again.
Garth rubs his hands together and muses, "Anyway, about this little thing Tommy said you lot was helping us in..."
John puts his hands on his hips, "What about it?"
The Nossie says, "He's busy now- Clan-related matters, I'm sure you can understand--"
"When are we going to sewers?" Svetlana pointedly asks.
Garth clicks his tongue and tsks, "Tsk. Hold your horses, love. We don't normally allow any wee Kindred from any wee old Clan into our...Domain."
John gets impatient, "I think we've kinda earned your trust after tonight, and Tommy said--"
"Tommy left me in charge. He trusts me to do the right thing. You try going down in the sewers without a guide, me, you're fucked...proper fucked. Now, hold your 'orses." Garth shakes a twisted finger.
Abdullah suggests, "Then take us there, habibi. You can guide us. That way, we know where you are, yes?"
Garth shakes his head, "Not tonight. Not when the heat on you lot still lingers. That, and well...some of us Nossies get a bit shy when a fellow Kindred from the surface pays us a visit."
He explains, "In other words, we need time to get our houses in order, tidy up, clean the floors, make it look presentable, so on and so forth. Besides, your lot have given us plenty to chew on already." He rubs his palms together with a bit of excitement.
John groans and sighs in disappointment and irritation, "What the hell was this meeting all about, then?!"
"Calm yourself, lad. You'll pop a vein, haha. As much as Tommy wanted to be 'ere, Clan issues take priority- after all, he's our Primogen, so it makes sense, don't it?" Garth holds his hands out.
Svetlana has her hands on her hips. Her expression is stony, her gaze fierce and unforgiving.
Garth adds, "Anyway, we'll go over all that information you've brought us...if there's anything to go over, heh. I'll be sure to tell Tommy you lot said 'hi'."
With that, he goes over to a hatch on the floor that's been hidden behind a pile of boxes. He lifts the heavy iron hatch up and waves at John and the rest, "Be sure to keep your arses safe, alright? Ciao!"
Before Garth slinks down the ladder, he pops his head back up, "And don't even fuckin' think of following me! You'll get lost down there and you don't want that, none of us do."
The 4 Banu Haqim (more or less) agree to the Sewer Rat's terms. With that, he slinks down the hatch, leaving them to talk amongst themselves.
"Fucking great. So, this whole trip was a fucking bust!" John rolls his eyes in exasperation and throws his hands up in the air.
Svetlana is a little optimistic, "At least we found those SD cards to give, no?"
Abdullah concurs with her, "Yes, habibi. It is not all bleak. Yet."
Zeina remains intensely focused on the area around them. It's like she expects the SI to come crashing through any second now, and unleash hell on them all. It's very tense.
John asks the obvious, "Well my car's fucked. Again. Abdullah, how much will your mechanic buddy charge to get it fixed up this time?"
Abdullah responds, "Far too much, my friend."
With her eyes watching the rusty door, Zeina blandly suggests, "Why not take the metro?? I heard it's as good as Dubai's."
Svetlana agrees, "Da. Is good. John?" she looks to her Sire for the final decision.
John scratches his chin and looks over at his shot-up car. It'll definitely cost quite a lot of money to fix that again- money he simply doesn't have right now.
"Hmph, yeah, metro it is. But I can't just leave my car here. Help me find something to cover it up."
The Assamite quartet get to searching amongst this warehouse, but find only a few dusty and hole-riddled tarps that could fit a portion of John's car at best. However, it'll have to do.
They have no other options at the moment, so this is the best that they've got.
The dust mites from the tarp stick to John's face, but he tries not to be too annoyed by it.
His car is mostly hidden. He's left the key in there and hidden it behind the backseat. He pets the roof and gives it a long and significant look before catching up to his Assamite friends.
They'll need to get the metro in order to make it back to the main part of the city. That's their plan, at least. Hopefully, that's enough to shake anyone who might still be tailing them.
The vampires also clean themselves up as best they can, so that they don't attract any unwanted attention when among the mortals- they don't need extra eyes on them, especially now.
On the way, Abdullah looks at the time and says, "Ah, as much as I...liked our little outing tonight, I have work to do. At least I can do some before the sun rises. I cannot afford to miss out like this, habibi."
John solemnly nods, "Mm-hmm. Yup. And my work's...well, never mind. This is pretty much the only thing that occupies my mind right about now; fighting the SI and getting even. Those goddamn fuckers." The anger is plain as day in his voice.
Svetlana squeezes her Sire's hand and mutters something to herself in her native tongue. Her face looks so exhausted right about now.
Zeina states, "Yes, even I have work to go to. Tips at this time of the night are usually more, and I need every last dirham that I can get."
With hesitation, she adds, "I...am not even sure I will make it, but...I must try."
Abdullah reassures her, "Do not worry. What we do is just. The Zionists in this region must pay for their evil deeds and treachery. WE must Judge them for their wickedness, for only then will the victims finally find some measure of peace and justice."
Svetlana nods, "Da."
Zeina looks a little hopeful, "I look forward to the time when the Zionist regime will collapse under the weight of its own crimes, may God have mercy upon all the victims of last night's tragedy, the children most of all."
Abdullah agrees, "Yes, I too hope for that time. That is why we are Kindred, no? So that we may outlast our enemies and live long enough to see a new era of freedom, justice, and peace for all." He has that hopeful spark and glint in his eyes.
"Da."
The group walks the long walk to the nearest metro station, but Svetlana gets an odd sense that someone is watching them. From the corner of her eyes, she sees the Wraith of little Chloe flickering, like a dysfunctional hologram.
She stifles a gasp, tries to ignore the sight, but little Chloe's face and presence continue to haunt her and go with her everywhere. She gulps and continues walking, her mind racing.
Abdullah looks up at the clear night sky and silently wishes that he could spend a few more hours helping out with the struggle against the SI, but he also has to keep his roof over his head.
Once the 4 are at the metro station, they each purchase a metro card for the lowest amount of dirhams possible. The metro station itself is well-lit, bright, and busy. There are a few police officers here.
Abdullah takes his time looking at them all. His expression is thoughtful. The walls are high, pristine, and there's even a fancy clock with bright neon lights above. The station is so full of life.
It's the opposite of the industrial quarter, where they came from.
They all head for the platform that will take them into the main part of the city, back to "civilization" (or some semblance of it).
Since they all live (and work) in very different parts of the city, their stops are different from each other, but they all hope to see each other again. Soon.
And they most certainly WILL see each other again, that much is guaranteed!
They part ways after promising to keep each other in the loop about any new developments on their side of the struggle against the forces of the Second Inquisition.
The train they all ride in is somewhat packed. Some passengers alight from the train, some new passengers get on.
Svetlana takes a seat by the window. John is right beside her. Zeina is in the aisle seat. Abdullah is seated in the last row, reading something on his phone.
Svetlana feels her Beast roaring within her. Surrounded by so many warm-bodied mortals is doing things to her that she cannot describe. She's trying to keep her cool, but she feels like she might go mad any minute now.
A passing young man in a thawb (and wearing sunglasses) bumps into Svetlana, muttering, "Ah, sorry."
She says it's OK and he waltzes over to his friends on the opposite end of the aisle, chatting away and laughing. Svetlana catches a glimpse of them for just a second, but it's enough.
She has to get off at the next stop. She can hear her inner Beast begging her to lunge at the nearest mortal, bite them, and drain them whole. These kinds of thoughts, in addition to the Wraith of Chloe, have her rather unbalanced.
Her hand goes to her temple and she shakes her head, as if to will that image to disappear from her mind.
John notices her discomfort and asks, "You OK, Svetlana?"
She forces a smile and rapidly nods.
John puts his hand on Svetlana's knee, but she yelps and scoots away a few inches. Her reaction catches him completely off-guard and he retracts his hand, "W--What is it?"
Svetlana can only stammer. The words struggle to leave her lips. John leans over to get a good look at his Childe's face and is shocked at how frightened she looks right now.
Svetlana finally says, "I need to get off at next stop." Her voice is hushed, as if she's sharing a secret. She sounds almost apologetic, "I just...cannot. S--Sorry."
John calmly reassures her, "Hey, hey, no need to worry. It was a uh...tough night, hmm?"
Svetlana shivers and nods, "Da. T--Tough night." She scoots some more centimeters away from John and puts her hands in her lap. Her legs are together. She's curled up against the corner of the window and she looks at John like she's seen a horrific crime scene.
John looks back at her with sympathy and wonders what it is that's making her so...uneasy and jumpy all of a sudden.
Zeina makes small talk with the old guy sitting next to her. She learns that he's also from Lebanon, but that's about all she's able to find out from the old man. She stares out of the window for most of the trip.
She keeps herself to herself, that's for sure. She doesn't want to endanger her Unlife- or that of anyone else's- any further.
Abdullah snickers when he watches some Vines (that John introduced him to). The other passengers shoot him a look. He shrugs and continues his giggling at these 6 (some say 7) second videos that play in succession.
He gets a few chuckles out of them.
After what seems like an eternity, the 4 finally make it to the next stop. Svetlana hastily exits, even pushing her way through just as the doors slide open. She mutters an apology in Russian as she gets through to the platform.
John follows closely behind and looks at his Childe with worry, "Are you sure you're OK?" he sounds worried. He can't shake off that strange look in her eyes when he sees her.
Svetlana briskly walks, so fast, that even John has trouble catching up. She stops right outside of the station, her arms folded over her chest as she heaves and pants. Her chest rises up and down and she closes her eyes for a second.
Her hands are shaky and clammy. Her legs are quivering.
John puts his hand on her shoulder and fixes her with a firm, but concerned gaze, "Seriously, what is going on? Did something happen? If the fight got to you--"
Svetlana snaps at her Sire, "N--NO! DO NOT TOUCH--"
John immediately steps back, holding his hands up, palms facing outward, "Whoa, whoa. Easy, easy."
Svetlana recoils, like she just got burned, her voice going low as she apologizes, "S--Sorry. I--I..." she doesn't know what else to say. Her emotions are just a swirling maelstrom right now.
John respectfully keeps his distance from Svetlana, "W--What's going on? Are you sure that you're up to this?"
Svetlana swallows the lump in her throat, "Da."
John doesn't look so convinced, but he doesn't wanna prod or push any more than he needs to. She clearly has some...emotional issues or problems going on in her that she doesn't want him to know.
But, what?
That tragic part of her past is yet to be revealed.
She gathers her composure, says her goodbyes, and decides to walk back to her Haven. Maybe the night air will do her some good and clear her mind. Maybe.
John watches his Childe walk off. She's going away at quite the brisk pace, that much is for certain.
Mr. Suarez decides to give her a wide berth. He then waits for the next train to arrive before boarding it. He makes sure to avoid being seen on any CCTV cameras. After the past few nights, he's almost certain that the SI knows exactly what he is.
John silently worries for his Childe and makes sure to text her, asking if she's OK or if she needs anything. She texts back a simple smiling emoji, so that's enough for John.
Abdullah stops near the mall that he works at. He goes to the tech store he works at, clocks in, gets the obligatory shouting-at from his boss, and then begins to put his nose to the grindstone.
It's a busy night.
He's able to stay on until the sun is almost rising, but his Beast compels him to leave soon.
Meanwhile, Zeina continues to wait tables. She waits tables, forces smiles, suffers through creepy expat dudes trying to grope her, and waits some more tables. Her face looks so blank, almost deader than usual, when she does this. It's as if she's not even fully there.
Detached, in a way. She balances the plates food with great skill, but hisses when it's her time to bring the hot, fresh, and steaming sizzlers to the tables. She tries not to make too much contact with the plate and hurries back into the kitchen.
Her uniform smells of sizzling meat and barbecued ribs. She works in a sort of mid-range hipster restaurant with dim lighting and linoleum floors- it's packed most nights.
She's back in her Haven before the sun rises, thankfully.
John spends his time practicing Kenpo and doing as many sit-ups as he can possibly do. Since Kindred don't sweat or tire easily, he figures that he can push a 1000, maybe more.
With his favorite music in the background (mainly Kristin Mainhart tunes on shuffle), John spends a few hours going at it and by the time he's done, the sun is rising, and he prepares himself for the pulling slumber of the day.
Svetlana cries, the sanguine tears flowing like a river of sadness. She's curled up on her bed and softly sobbing. When her Sire placed his hand on her knee, a memory from a terrible time in her past was triggered.
From there, the other memories of that horrible evening began to flood back into her mind. She was just 18 when it happened. It wasn't her fault, it isn't her fault, and it will NEVER be her fault.
It never is the fault of the victims.
Of course, it wasn't John's fault, but unintentional (or unexpected) things can trigger a person's memories of past traumas.
In another part of this city, a secretive chat begins between 2 specks of human dust...
ILHC: "SITREP, Commander Gallant."
OBED: "7 of our finest operatives are KIA. Bodies recovered by Lt. Klein. Currently being examined for any possible anomalies. We're still awaiting the reports."
ILHC: "Not good, Commander Gallant. It hasn't even been a week and you've already lost so many operatives- the 2 Mossad agents in Dubai, the 4 rookies, and now 7 good men and women from our plainclothes patrol unit. What is going on down there?"
OBED: "The blank bodies will be contained. I will say the Kaddish for our fallen heroes."
ILHC: "You said that the last time, Commander Gallant. We expect better of you and your subordinates. Unit 8211 will not stand idly by while such abominations roam the Earth. These vampires are clearly far more dangerous than we had first anticipated."
OBED: "Indeed, very much so. Which is why I am requesting permission to begin utilizing incendiary weapons on the field. We have quite a huge stockpile that's begging to be put to good use."
ILHC: "Permission granted. It is surprising that you did not equip your team with incendiary weapons from the beginning, Commander Gallant."
OBED: "The situation with these particular blank bodies is...different. They're extremely aggressive and bloodthirsty, even more so than we had originally anticipated."
ILHC: "Do not underestimate them again, Commander Gallant. The Israeli High Command needn't remind you of what happens when you do such a thing."
OBED: "Yes, yes, I know it all too well. This is why I'm asking for permission to utilize our entire arsenal of righteous weaponry against them. There's no need to be so cautious and conservative if these monsters pose such a huge threat. They cannot be reasoned with or bargained with."
ILHC: "Precisely, Commander Gallant. It appears they are lashing out- violently- after your successful operation against the Marjan Tower."
OBED: "Yes. That appears to be the case. Although, I wish that our enemies would congregate in a singular location. Then, we could just do what we usually do- bomb it from the skies and wipe them all out with a single blow."
ILHC: "Yes, but your circumstances and operating environment are vastly different. You need to keep in mind that these are not mere terrorists. No. They are monsters with abilities and powers that simply defy comprehension."
OBED: "Yes, I have read our extensive files on them. Many times over."
ILHC: "Then, put that knowledge to good use. Fire scares them, it makes them flinch and act irrationally. Fire is their primary weakness. Remember that. Always."
OBED: "Yes, always. Now, we will utilize incendiary weapons on the field against them. B'ezrat HaShem, we will kill many of them on our next encounter."
ILHC: "See to it that you do. Otherwise, you may find yourself losing many more men and women before this operation is concluded. And if that is the case, then we will have no other choice but to pull back from the UAE; it'll be too risky to remain and the international fallout alone would be too much to bear."
OBED: "To hell with the international community and its feelings! I must ensure it does not come to that. I will not fail, I will not falter, and I will not lose another good Israeli man or woman to these monsters. We will burn all our enemies in holy flame."
ILHC: "Indeed. Engulf them all. If you get close enough, stake them first. It is ironic, isn't it? How a simple piece of wood through the chest humbles these beings and renders them completely helpless and at our mercy."
OBED: "Very much so. Many of my people frequently joke about it, too. Please, make sure that our 7 fallen soldiers get a proper burial."
ILHC: "You let us handle that. May God watch over you and your men, Commander Gallant."
OBED: "And may He watch over you as well. How is the situation back home?"
ILHC: "We are doing the best that we can, Commander Gallant."
OBED: "Reports keep coming in regarding alleged side effects of the CEDP. As per your orders, I am ignoring them and continuing with the operation as planned."
ILHC: "We expect you to follow your orders without question. To serve one's country in such a capacity. There is no greater honor for an Israeli than to have a position such as yours, Commander Gallant."
OBED: "Yes, thank you. May HaShem protect us all and bring us victory over the forces of evil. I will go above and beyond the call of duty in the war against the blank body threat."
ILHC: "Excellent work, Commander Gallant. You're a smart and resourceful man- the best that Israel has to offer, even. You will be rewarded for your diligence and devotion to your country when the time is right. Now, is there anything else on your mind?"
OBED: "I try not to read the CEDP reports, but some of it is genuinely troubling and perplexing."
ILHC: "As mentioned before: disregard. Continual usage of the CEDP is necessary, Commander. Now more so than ever."
OBED: "I understand. Thank you. Sorry for questioning your wisdom. Our LVNDR system has experienced a slight slowdown due to recent power outages."
ILHC: "It's a power-hungry little thing, isn't it? Either way, it has been entrusted in your care. Utilize it to its fullest potential and do not fear the consequences."
OBED: "We shall. There is something that the LVNDR system has brought to our attention."
ILHC: "Oh, do elaborate, Commander Gallant."
OBED: "A human rights lawyer by the name of Aaron Hart booked a flight soon after our operation against the blank body threat in the Marjan Tower. LVNDR flagged him as a potential blank body sympathizer- 84.001% chance."
ILHC: "Keep tabs on him. Capture, interrogate, and neutralize if need be. We must monitor all those who sympathize with these monsters. They're an infestation, Commander. What nationality is he?"
OBED: "American. Mid-30s, born in Brooklyn, short blonde hair, dark green eyes. You do not know how much I despise these so-called 'human rights' people. They sympathize with our enemies and are thus complicit in their crimes against Am Yisrael. In my eyes, they are the true enemy."
ILHC: "We agree, Commander Gallant. Human rights lawyers have done far more harm than good- they are the reason why so many terrorists and monsters roam freely throughout the world, committing the most atrocious acts against the Jewish nation. These American lawyers, these leftist bleeding hearts, are the true monsters- they would defend anything and anyone if given half the chance."
OBED: "Indeed. Do I have the permission of the Israeli High Command to bring in this Aaron Hart and do whatever it takes to extract information from him?"
ILHC: "Permission granted. If he resists, capture him and use every method of interrogation at your disposal to get what you desire from him. He will have no rights under any so-called 'laws', none whatsoever."
OBED: "It is a good thing when there are no restrictions placed on you."
ILHC: "Be that as it may, do not make the Israeli High Command doubt you or your capabilities to lead, Commander Gallant. You have already lost too many good people even before Operation Sheva could yield any meaningful results. We expect better from you in the future. Do not disappoint us again."
OBED: "No, never. I will ensure that this Aaron Hart is dealt with swiftly and effectively. I know he is somehow connected to the blank body threat in this region. I'll have our best interrogators work on him. You just take care of the politics and needless red tape on your end."
ILHC: "We are handling that part very well. All the international bodies and organizations are none the wiser about the recent attacks. Many will not even suspect our involvement. And, even if they did, it won't get very far in the mainstream. You have our full support, Commander Gallant. Do not fail us again."
OBED: "And the Israeli High Command has my undying loyalty and devotion. As do your superiors at the Israeli Ministry Of Defense. How did our partners in the Coalition react to our recent operational success?"
ILHC: "At the moment, the IMOD has seen fit to withhold information of our involvement. There are some within the Coalition who continue to remain ambivalent about our necessary methods. They view it as 'too far' and 'too much'."
OBED: "There is not a depth we won't sink to in order to protect Am Yisrael from these monsters. Nothing is off limits when it comes to the protection of the nation from all threats, natural, supernatural, or otherwise."
ILHC: "True. You must be willing to make sacrifices. We all must be willing to make sacrifices for the good of Am Yisrael. It is the only way that we can truly keep ourselves safe from the blank body scum."
OBED: "Indeed, indeed."
ILHC: "Do not hesitate to make use of the Hannibal Directive, should the tactical situation call for such drastic measures."
OBED: "It won't be easy. Chas V'chalila (HEB: God forbid) I should find myself in such a position. But, it is better for our enemies to inherit nothing than even a little bit of something that they can use against us."
ILHC: "Did the blank bodies take anything from the 7 operatives who were killed?"
OBED: "Unfortunately, yes. They are more resourceful than I would've liked. 7 SD cards are missing from the cellphones of our operatives."
ILHC: "This is NOT good, Commander Gallant. Regardless, you have done well to inform us of this issue. Now, let us hope that they lack the sophisticated technology to decipher its limited contents. Should that happen, it will undoubtedly represent a significant blow to your operations. Be ready in case that happens."
OBED: "Agreed. Then again, these Arabs couldn't operate a computer to save their lives, so I wouldn't worry about it."
ILHC: "You might be correct. In any case, do keep us updated on the situation. Make sure your Lieutenants keep in contact with us. Let us know if there are any new developments on your end. Remember: do not underestimate the blank bodies. They are far more dangerous than any mere terrorists you and your people have faced in the past."
OBED: "We know that very well. I've also diverted some resources into investigating this blank body by the name of John Suarez. If we were to capture him, then maybe we could obtain valuable information about the others. I'm having some of our best look into any connections he might have in the region."
ILHC: "Good idea, Commander Gallant. This could lead to many breakthroughs in our ongoing war against the blank body scourge in the wider region. Let us know what you find. Make sure you ALWAYS keep us updated. Intelligence is only good when it is shared, with the right kind of people of course."
OBED: "Of course, of course."
ILHC: "Then, may God bless you and keep you and the brave men and women under your command. May His face shine upon you, now and forevermore."
OBED: "And may He give us victory over all our enemies. Shalom aleichem."
ILHC: "Aleichem shalom, Commander Gallant. Dismissed."
With that, the chat messages begin to auto-delete. Commander Obed Gallant sits back in his chair, exhales sharply, and rubs his forehead. This scumbag has been at it for a long time, but this mission has proven to be 1 of the toughest he's had in a while.
His mind races with the possibilities, as well as the potential outcomes of any action or decision that he makes. It's a lot to think about and handle. He closes his eyes and mutters a small prayer.
He says a few meaningless words for the 7 goons who were killed tonight.
Things are moving fast, things are moving on. The city of Al-Kushraf is about to get caught up in a ferocious battle between the Kindred and the forces of the Second Inquisition.
A new era is slithering its way onto the scene and the Blade of Haqim will be at its forefront (unwittingly, for now). The question is: will they survive not only this but also the other struggles that will emerge?
After the night of bloodshed and violence, a new day dawns on the gilded city. The sun slowly rises, bathing everything and everyone in its warm light. It's a hot, arid morning.
Mortals (and maybe a few Ghouls) are just waking up, stretching their limbs, and getting ready for another busy day.
The traffic is heavy, the city streets are bustling with activity, and the smells of coffee and other aromas are heavy in parts of this Middle Eastern metropolis.
All in all, a fairly normal and mundane day in Al-Kushraf, UAE. Despite everything that has happened, despite the looming threat of the Second Inquisition, it's like nothing is happening. Nothing at all.
That's because this fight will be waged from the shadows. It will be in the dark nights. It will be fought by brave souls who dare to stand up to the oppressive forces. It will be fought in secret.
And mortals might get caught up in the thick of it all, but that's a bridge that'll be crossed when all the involved parties finally get there.
For now, this is merely a prelude to the storm of blood, bullets, blades, and fire that is soon to come and sweep this city.
Chapter 15: Menace
4 nights pass without so much as a squeak. A lot has occurred over those past few nights, but the city is still reeling from the Marjan Tower bombing. Community efforts to provide a comprehensive count of the deceased are met with stonewalls...
...From above. The Emirati authorities are hellbent on making sure that a collapsed structure doesn't impede the flow of commerce.
So, they do something unexpectedly expected.
They pay a whole freaking bunch of pliable, naïve, and easily manipulable influencers to make sure that attention is diverted elsewhere. They also make sure that every single newspaper in the region toes the line and keeps it quiet.
This way, there's not much talk of the incident, both online and offline.
The people of Al-Kushraf are outraged, but not exactly surprised. This kind of shit is almost expected at this point. However, there's something about this particular incident that's gotten under their skin.
These extremely polished and airbrushed (to the point where they look like homunculus wax figures) influencers extol the "amazingness" and "awesomeness" of Al-Kushraf.
A short video on Instagram is just a generic montage of fancy cars, plump asses, and swaying palm trees with some upbeat music in the background.
"Come, come, visit Al-Kushraf today!" a well-chiseled man beams, shiny teeth on full display as he says this. His hair is styled into a generic quiff and his shirt is unbuttoned to the sternum. He looks like an absolute tool.
"Don't worry about what you've read! It's just like Dubai, but better in every way. See you soon at the UAE!" he winks at the camera. His voice is heavily autotuned and the whole thing sounds so cheesy and forced.
A woman shows the view of the city from high up in her penthouse suite. It's quite something, alright. She then pans the camera to herself and over-enthusiastically says, "Al-Kushraf is great! The best in the world!"
The camera then cuts to a man with a man bun, sunglasses, and a stylish beard. He's wearing a black t-shirt that reads "AL-KUSHRAF" in bold white letters. He has a toothy grin on his face as he says, "If you're looking for a good time, come on down to Al-Kushraf!"
The video cuts back to the woman who pouts and kisses the camera lens. She giggles, "Oh, Al-Kushraf, how I love you so." She looks like she's having a good time. A REALLY fake-good time!
She looks right at the camera and blows another kiss. She flicks her hair and giggles some more. She's enjoying this whole charade.
Well, she's being paid to.
These influencers might be superficial and not wholly there at times, but they're not necessarily bad people. They're just blunt tools in the hands of an image-obsessed ruling elite that is DESPERATE to stay afloat no matter what.
The influencer campaign is truly ghoulish and woefully out of touch, but any kind of negative (I.E., realistic) comments in regards to the current situation are censored, deleted, or even punished with arrest by the Emirati authorities.
Fragile bastards.
A professor was arrested for questioning the bad timing of the influencer campaign in relation to current events. She was eventually released after a while, but the damage has already been done, so to speak.
The whole thing is an exercise in absurdity and it does absolutely nothing to help the situation. The people of Al-Kushraf are being pushed to their limits. Many want answers, they want justice, and they DEMAND accountability and transparency.
Well, good luck with that.
As for the 4 Assamites, they've been busy working. SI or no SI, there's bills to pay, rent to take care of, and a roof to keep over one's head. The last one's particularly important for creatures who can no longer see, let alone be out in the sun.
Svetlana got some babysitter gigs to help keep her afloat. John, thankfully, got a few important and quirky clients to privately train in Kenpo.
Abdullah keeps up appearances at his work. Poor Zeina keeps getting hit on by this creepy expat guy; he keeps asking for her number and she keeps refusing. She wishes she could just gut him like the pig that he is, but she has to hold back.
She could easily take him on, but there's the Masquerade (and a whole bunch of other stuff) to consider.
It's a struggle for sure. A very real and tangible struggle. And the fact that she doesn't have the funds to leave this city (like some of her fellow Assamites) and go somewhere else doesn't help her much.
If anything, it makes things far more depressing.
Zeina does cry tears of blood in the bathroom stall every now and then. Sometimes the emotional toll is too much for her to bear. The sanguine tears are a quiet protest against her current situation.
Still, she does serve, clean up, expect half-decent tips (of the monetary variety) and she goes about her work. It's just that her work isn't as fulfilling or as rewarding as she would've liked it to be.
The other Blade of Haqim members have their own jobs to work at- after all, it's only been a measly few weeks since they had to flee Dubai. Ever since then, many of them have been trying to adapt to the sudden change in environment.
Al-Kushraf city is all new territory for them. What happened back in Dubai was enough to send most Kindred running, but they've held firm.
Well, most of them anyway.
Questions still remain about what exactly happened that night. It's not likely that these newly-arrived Assamites will be privy to the answers, though.
As for Seth Steale, he continues to shore up and secure his position in the Domain. His network of informants and contacts is expanding by the night.
He's also able to make connections with those who might prove to be useful in the future.
His influence is growing by the minute and it's only a matter of time before he proceeds with his grand plan. As a prominent Setite High Priest, he knows how to use his charm and charisma to get what he wants from who he wants and when he wants.
His cult goes with the motions, but many of them have (by now) heard of the M-Tower bombing. There's some panic and many devotees demand that the High Priest come and allay their many fears and doubts with a word from Typhon.
Seth couldn't care any less about his food source.
Edwin, his Ghoul, however insists that he at least pop in, even if only for a few minutes. Otherwise, it'll cause unrest amongst the cultists and that's the last thing anyone needs right now.
Seth says he'll "think about it."
However, Seth remains concerned about the potential leaks and loose ends at the cult. On Seth's request, Gallagher was able to "apprehend" a few more cultists who were making phone calls to the outside world.
They were quickly exsanguinated and Edwin (the very source of the issue) made sure to dispose of the bodies properly...and respectfully.
He facilitated their phone calls to their relatives, loved ones, or whoever. He just didn't expect it to end so violently. At least none of the people who were caught named Edwin before they were brutally drained by Seth, Gallagher, or any other Setite visiting during that time.
For now, however, all loose ends at the cult have been taken care of and successfully plugged. However, Seth remains none the wiser that his own Ghoul was the one providing the cellphones to make calls.
And Edwin makes sure to keep his head down, his mouth shut, and do whatever his Domitor demands of him, no matter how demeaning. If anything, he's glad that he hasn't been made.
The poor guy shudders to think of how his master will draw out his torture or torment if he finds out that it was his Ghoul who gave out the phones and facilitated this treachery.
Aside from all that, Seth's cult has seen an increase in sicknesses in the last few nights (no surprise there). Regardless, people are still flocking to the Domain to seek guidance from the High Priest, as well as to pay their respects to Typhon.
(Or is it the other way around?)
It's a strange, but profitable dynamic, and Seth is quite on his way to becoming a wealthy man. "God" might or might not exist, but in their (or its) name, a lot of money is to be made.
Aaron Hart never made it to his hotel room. The Israelis kidnapped him in the airport shortly after his flight landed in Al-Kushraf. He was sedated by a fast-acting toxin, bundled up, and carried off to an underground structure in a nearby industrial district.
The SI goons were all wearing disguises and thick gloves to ensure that there were no fingerprints left behind. Their getaway vehicle was also clean and sterile, no DNA left behind, no evidence, nothing.
For the past 4 nights, he has been subject to brutal torture and interrogation (enhanced questioning) methods. Those fascist thugs already have a preconceived notion of Mr. Hart in their heads. A preconceived notion based on concocted and purely imagined connections to vampires.
Waterboarding, extreme sensory deprivation, cattle prods to sensitive body parts, beatings, loud and grating sounds, forced ingestion of various substances, etc. You name it, it's definitely happened. Or about to.
Aaron has been beaten, battered, and bruised. His face is covered in blood, sweat, and tears. The SI thugs are relentless, unrelenting, and they won't stop until they get what they want.
They want answers, but Aaron has none whatsoever. He keeps repeating that he is an "American citizen, a human rights lawyer." He rightly (and constantly) asserts his rights, but the scum torturing him don't give a shit about any of that.
Aaron is just a "potential blank body sympathizer" to them. He's guilty until proven otherwise (and even then, it likely won't matter). This is a kangaroo court and he's the only one in it.
It's all too much for him to bear, but he endures it with what little strength and resolve he has left. It's hard, though. He's just a mortal man, a human rights lawyer.
He never expected, in a million years, to get wrapped up in all this lunacy, this madness. And yet, there he is in a damp, nondescript concrete structure a few meters below ground. His screams, pleas, and cries for help go unanswered.
The walls are thick and the structure itself is soundproofed. Only the SI goons can hear his screams, but they don't care, some of them even take delight in his pain and suffering. They've heard it all before. They're not moved in the slightest.
And they have the chutzpah to call vampires the monsters...
All they care about is getting the information they want from this poor sod. His name is Aaron Hart, he is an American citizen and a human rights lawyer, and he has been designated as a potential blank body sympathizer.
One sincerely hopes that the Blade of Haqim finds him and rescues him before it's too late. But, what then? How will Aaron Hart react when he finds out that vampires are indeed real?
It's too early to answer that question now.
The other Kindred go about their Unlives, doing this and that, nothing much to report on that front.
Anyways, Tommy the Nosferatu Primogen finally has some info. He and his fellow Nossies down in the sewers have been able to decipher those 7 SD cards.
There are some interesting tidbits on there. However, the information is only useful if you know how to read it. Which is precisely why Tommy is able to piece things together. He (and his fellow Crawlers) are geniuses when it comes to this sort of thing.
He calls for a meeting with the Banu Haqim quartet at an abandoned building to share his findings. It's mainly some info related to patrol routes and so on.
Honestly, there's not a whole bunch to go off of, but it's a good starting point. Either way, it's a goldmine for the Sewer Rats who are all the more happy to get their grubby misshapen hands on info and secrets and the like.
The information is used to its fullest potential, too. The Nosferatu can now begin to paint a better picture of the Unit 8211 threat in this Domain. What they do with said info and who they decide to share it with remains their prerogative.
A Crawler and their many little (and big) secrets are not easily parted.
Night falls fairly quickly. The evening air is warm, but not horribly so. A few stars can be seen twinkling in the sky. There is some traffic in this city. Some mortals are just going about their daily business, getting off from work and the like.
Others are still on the clock, working nightshifts, doing overtime, or whatever they need to do to stay afloat in this city. It's a normal night, at least, on the surface.
Svetlana awakens from her day-sleep. The babysitting gigs have, thankfully, been steady albeit lower in terms of pay. She should really look into going with an agency, but there's so much else on her mind right now that she cannot afford to miss out on even 1 gig no matter what.
Those things will have to wait until another time. For now, she'll just do whatever comes her way and rely on word-of-mouth to get more clients.
So, tonight, Svetlana informs any potential clients that she won't be available. She profusely apologizes and hopes that she'll get another chance. Some are decent and understanding whilst others scream and hurl invectives towards her.
After having her head screamed off by some American chick, Svetlana winces and puts her iPhone on charge. Next, she takes a quick shower. All the stiffness and tiredness of her muscles goes away almost instantly as the warm water runs down her skin.
She relaxes her muscles and breathes a short sigh of relief. A few minutes later, she's out of the shower, dressed in a new set of clothes, and ready to go on with her night.
She's wearing something a little more loose- a brown blouse, black slacks, and running shoes. She brushes her teeth (fangs included), makes sure to wash her face, and goes to her nightstand. There's a bottle of lotion there. She rubs a bit on her skin before heading out.
Svetlana gets a text from her Sire, John: "Got a taxi. Will be coming by 2 pick u up soon."
Svetlana's fingers move along the virtual keyboard: "Da. OK. Almost ready."
John and his Childe haven't spoken much (through phone or in-person) since confronting those 7 goons. John still wonders what exactly happened with Svetlana that other night, but he knows that it's best to not prod too much.
If only he knew how much she has suffered in her past.
For now, however, both Assamites remain in the dark about each others' pasts and traumas. The taxi arrives at Svetlana's Haven and they get going.
The taxi driver is a Pakistani man in his 20s or so. He's got heavy bags under his eyes and he dully asks, "Where to next, sir?"
John looks at Svetlana and silently mouths, "He's a mortal."
Svetlana nods in understanding and relaxes herself in the backseat. She keeps her distance from her Sire, though. Her hands are on her lap and she looks at the city outside.
John looks at the taxi driver through the rearview mirror and tells him the intended destination. The taxi driver lets out a low hum and begins driving. Small talk is nonexistent.
The Hunger, however, nags at Svetlana. She feels her Beast goading her into lunging forward and taking a big ol' bite outta the mortal driving the taxi. She resists.
Her Beast doesn't like it, but it complies, nonetheless. The taxi driver notices the cold silence from his passengers, but he doesn't care enough to prod.
John is worried about his Childe. He looks at her, but she doesn't look back.
He clears his throat and gently asks, "All OK?"
Svetlana forces a smile and nods quickly, "Hm. Da. All is OK. How--how are you, John?"
John shrugs, "Eh. I can't complain too much, y'know. I uh...got a few opportunities to give private Kenpo lessons to some folk, but other than that, everything's um...alright. There's a huge water leak at the dojo, so we're out of commission for a while longer. Hmph."
Svetlana nods and gives another quick smile, "OK. OK All is well."
She turns to look out the window. John looks at her for a second or 2 before turning to look out the opposite window. The taxi isn't too fast, so the 2 Assamites have a chance to take in the view.
Well, it's quite a typical view- bright lights, skyscrapers that look like they're touching the heavens, flocks of people going to and fro, and the occasional honking of horns. It's something that sorta fades in to the background the more accustomed you are to it.
And Svetlana and John are quite accustomed to it all by now, what with the both of them having "lived" in the UAE for so long.
Svetlana finds herself fidgeting with her fingers as she stares out into the city. She can't shake the feeling of...something being off.
From where he's seated, John can kinda feel his Childe's Beast roaring and howling within her. He leans closer to her, covers the side of his mouth with a hand, and whispers, "Did you feed yet?"
Svetlana keeps her eyes locked on the window and her fingers continue to fidget. She whispers back, "Nyet."
John sighs and subtly points to an alleyway; it's not very well-lit and there's a few easy pickings milling about. He whispers, "Is that OK with you?"
Svetlana nods her head, "Da. I will be fast."
John shrugs and puts his cold hand on the taxi driver's shoulder, "Uh...you mind stopping here for a minute, uh...habibi?"
The taxi driver faintly chuckles at John's Arabic and pulls over near the footpath. Svetlana exits the vehicle and approaches the alleyway. She hides behind a dumpster and waits for some prey to come her way.
John just stays in the taxi with the driver. He sighs, looks out the window, and silently worries for his Childe. She'll be fine, he hopes.
A woman in a tight suit lights a cigarette and smokes it. She leans against the grimy wall with 1 leg crossed over the other. Her long, curly blonde hair is slightly disheveled and she looks tired as fuck. It was likely a stressful day at the office for her.
She looks like she could use some...relief. Svetlana activates her Obfuscate Discipline and slowly approaches her, making sure to keep to the shadows as much as possible.
The blonde chick only sees a shimmer, kind of like looking at someone wearing a cloaking device real up-close. But, by the time she's able to process this, she's being yanked by the Assamite's strong grip and her eyes widen in fear.
She gasps and her cigarette falls out of her mouth. Svetlana sinks her sharp and pointy fangs into this chick and she begins to take her fill.
Back in the taxi, John's fingers drum on the seat in front of him.
The taxi driver adjusts his rearview mirror and impatiently asks, "How much longer??"
John makes something up on the spot, "She...needs time. She had a lot to drink last night."
"Hmm." The taxi driver pulls out his phone and idly scrolls through his many WhatsApp messages. He doesn't seem too impressed.
John takes a few glances towards the alleyway. It doesn't seem like Svetlana has finished feeding yet. He's a little concerned, but not terribly so. He knows that she'll be alright- she's come this far after all.
Once done, Svetlana licks the wound on the woman's neck shut and leaves her still-breathing body near the dumpster. She hesitantly apologizes for all this and briskly walks back to the taxi.
She slams the door with a little more force than she intended. John raises a brow, but says nothing. The taxi driver puts away his phone, pulls up onto the road, and they're on their way once more.
The Assamite wipes her chin and feels a lot more satisfied now. Her Beast rumbles in content and remains docile.
For the time being.
Abdullah and Zeina are already at this abandoned structure waiting for John and Svetlana. The 2 catch up with each other.
Abdullah paces around and kicks a few stones around, "How are things with you, Zeina?"
Zeina is dressed in a white shirt and black tights. She clutches her purse tightly and gulps deeply, "They are like they have always been. What about you?"
Abdullah faintly chuckles, but there's a hint of bitterness in there, "I cannot complain. If I do, it is mostly concrete walls that are the recipients of my complaints."
The Blood Sorcerer is dressed in a simple t-shirt, a denim jacket and some worn-out jeans. His hair is a little messy and there's a hint of fatigue in his tone. Zeina looks him over and softly smiles.
He asks, "Do you ever worry that maybe 1 night...no, never mind. I should not entertain such thoughts. Especially now."
Zeina exhales softly and looks around the place they're in, "Entertain what thoughts? As long we Judge as many Zionists as we can, it doesn't matter what thoughts we have." One can sense the resentment in her voice.
Abdullah looks at her and smiles, "Will we be able to, though? Like anyone else of the Blade, I yearn to Judge these Zionist scum, but our numbers are nowhere near enough to fight them."
Zeina's eyes widen, "Numbers?! Walla, Abdullah! It is not about how many of us are or aren't there. Still, I do not know what possessed the others to run to Turkey. Grr," she grunts and growls.
Abdullah patiently explains, "After what happened in Dubai, we cannot blame them, Zeina. Many were too shocked and horrified to do anything else other than run. It is understandable. Even the bravest of us can fall if our backs are to the wall."
Zeina scoffs, "Yes, I know, I know. But still, it is frustrating! We are here, we are doing what we can, and yet, the other Kindred in this city cannot bother to support us properly! They want US to do all the work, don't they?"
"It appears to that way, yes."
"At least the other Banu Haqim in this Domain should come to our aid, no?!"
Abdullah shakes his head, "No. The Primogen, Vizier Mohammed Khan, will not let them. He believes the Blade to be far too extreme and 'fanatical' in its methods."
Zeina angrily grits her teeth. She pulls out her long dagger and twirls it around, "Pfft. Our own Clan, our own Blood refuses to aid us in our necessary task. Vile!"
Abdullah picks up a pebble and powerfully tosses it against a nearby wall, "That is the way of things, unfortunately. The Setites, Toreadors, Ventrue, Malkavians, and Nosferatu have all in some or the other way pledged their support to our cause. That should be enough to help us, yes?"
Zeina takes a few steps back and crosses her arms, "I suppose. But I do not trust any of them. Do they have our best intentions at heart?"
Abdullah sighs deeply, "I do not know, Zeina. You'll have to ask John when he arrives. I only relay to you what he tells me since he's been involving himself- a lot- in the...political side of things."
Zeina lifts her chin and inquires, "Don't you find it strange, Abdullah?"
"Find what strange?"
"That this city has neither Prince nor Sheriff. Yet, there are Primogen present."
"I...cannot comment on that, Zeina. For now, it is not our concern."
Zeina shakes her head, "I still find it strange."
Abdullah shrugs and makes an audible "eh" sound, "As long we have allies in our fight against the Zionists, then that's all that matters. Be they Malkavian, Ventrue, Setite, Toreador, Nosferatu, or Caitiff. At such a juncture in time, we cannot afford to be...picky. I believe the Americans have some kind of expression for it."
The Assamite Blood Sorcerer paces around and snaps his fingers repeatedly as he thinks about it, "Ah yes! Beggars cannot afford to be picky choosers, or something like that. We simply do what we must, even if we do not like it."
Zeina exhales and lets out a short growl. She can't argue with her fellow Assassin's logic, but it does make her blood boil that Kindred from her own Clan are being held back by the spineless Vizier.
She looks at the half-complete structure in front of her and does a gesture to it, "The Nosferatu like things that are...incomplete and abandoned. Heh."
The building in front of the duo goes up for a few floors. Construction materials and other rusty things are strewn about the gaffe. A few girder beams are also visible.
The 2 Assassins can see the lights of Al-Kushraf city off in the distance. The moon shines down upon them, bathing them in a soft, pale glow. A few stars dot the night sky.
Abdullah looks up at the sky and asks, "Zeina, are you ready?"
"Ready for what?"
"To Judge our enemies. You have not forgotten the mandate of the Blade of Haqim, have you?"
"NEVER! I am always ready to Judge! Always! You?"
Abdullah smirks and chuckles, "You need not worry about me, habibi. I am ready. Always. I can do many things with the Blood."
"Heh, so you say. So you say."
The other 2 Assamites arrive by foot. They got off a few blocks away and walked here. It's better that way, honestly. The last thing anyone needs is to get a mortal caught up in all this.
As it is, taxi drivers like that go through enough problems in their own lives, never mind dropping the existence of vampires and highly militarized vampire hunters on their laps.
Nope, they're just good-hearted and honest folk trying to make ends meet in this expensive city, they don't need this additional stress in their (undoubtedly) already-stressful lives.
Anyways, the other 2 Assamites get to their meeting spot with. Svetlana has a little smile on her face and she greets Abdullah and Zeina. John has his hands in his pockets and he has a calm expression.
He's has a guitar case slung over his right shoulder. But, there's no musical instrument in there. Nope, that's where his katana is! He figures that it'll be easier to move his sword around this way.
He just hopes no one stops him and asks him to play some tunes for them. That would be...awkward, to put it mildly.
Zeina nods over to the guitar case, "This is hardly the time for music, John. We're not going to Judge our foes with...song. As much as I would like to do so."
John's lips curl into a smile and he chuckles, "Haha. Oh, this? Nah, I don't actually play the guitar. I don't even know how to. Nah, this is just a way for me to move my katana around without arousing suspicion or drawing the wrong kinda attention to myself."
Zeina cocks her head to the side and looks at him quizzically, "Hm, I see. Do you always need to carry it around with you? Perhaps, it is best that you leave it somewhere else for now."
Svetlana takes a short walk around the outside area. She cranes her head skywards, points to the sky, and exclaims, "So big building! What happened here?"
Abdullah points out, "It is not unusual to find many buildings abandoned. Perhaps they ran out of money or maybe someone RAN AWAY with the money."
Zeina shakes her head disdainfully, "If that is the case, then we should Judge them, too. This is simply not right."
Abdullah seems to agree, "Yes, like Dubai, Al-Kushraf is a very unjust place."
The 4 Assamites find themselves in what looks like the lobby area. It's very wide, caked in layers and layers of dusty dust, and has some half-finished columns around.
There are some broken-down elevators that are long out of order. There's a hole in the floor in front of them. Svetlana peeks over the edge and gasps lightly.
The floor below is the basement and it's slightly flooded in parts. Some construction materials, loose bricks, and other objects float in the dark, murky water.
She can see the moonlight faintly shimmering in the water. She takes a few steps back.
John peeks over and shakes his head, "Wow. Tommy really does know how to pick 'em, huh?"
There's some loud grating and banging noises coming from the left side of the building. The 4 Assamites almost jump out of their skin. Startled, they ready their claws and fangs, and slowly approach the source of the sound.
They cautiously walk towards it, step by step, keeping their ears and eyes peeled for anything suspicious or out of place. The grating and banging sounds get louder.
Abdullah has his claw right on his wrist and takes the lead. John stops to take out his katana, he leaves the guitar case on the ground.
Svetlana holds both her daggers in her hand and looks ready for a fight. Zeina has her dagger firmly clutched in her hand, and she's also prepared for a fight.
It's a bit dark, so their vampiric night vision is a big help. Muffled sounds come from a downstairs hatch and the 4 Kindred finally figure out where those sounds are coming from.
They head down there and the sounds suddenly stop. The 4 look around and gulp. After a second, the hatch groans open and Garth steps out, grunting and groaning, with Tommy behind him.
John and his fellow Assamites look at them in confusion.
Garth's dressed in a tattered robe and a heavy shemagh that covers his entire face. Tommy wears his trademark mosaic-patterned porcelain mask along with a messy brown suit. He's even got a ragged cravat around his neck.
Huh, fashionable for a Sewer Rat who spends nearly all of his waking time in, well, the sewers!
Tommy dusts himself off and glowers at Garth, "Aye, nae be taking that route again!"
Garth claps back, his voice just as grated and rough as Tommy's, "It's not my bloody fault there's flooding all over the sodding place!"
Tommy growl-sighs and shakes his head, "Aye, infrastructure in this wee city is falling apart--"
John clears his throat and lowers his sword.
Garth nods over at them, "Look, it's the Assamite welcoming committee. Look, they even brought their toys along, haha!"
Zeina insists, "These are not toys, Crawler."
Tommy regards her for a moment and approaches her. He stretches out his deformed hand, "I don't believe we've had the pleasure. Name's Tommy. You already know which Clan I am, hahaha!"
"Zeina Al-Qutub. Banu Haqim, of the Blade of Haqim," she sounds so formal and proper, but there's a hint of distrust in her voice.
Tommy cocks his head to the side, "Ah, nice, nice. Pleased to make your acquaintance, hen."
John steps in, "We came a long way here because you said that you had something for us."
Tommy gestures for Garth to come over and they head to the lobby area.
The Nossie Primogen turns around and says, "Naw here! 'Mon up! We got a lot tae talk about tonight!"
John's eyebrows shoot up momentarily. He shrugs and follows the 2 Sewer Rats back up to the lobby area. The other 3 Assamites remain close, but alerted and sharp. They don't want to let their guard down, especially now when things are so tense.
Svetlana asks, "What is special about this place? Why did you call us here?"
Tommy looks at her and simply replies, "Abandoned. That's really all. It's nothing special, love. From what I understand, this place was supposed to be some wee hotel or apartment, but--"
He stops and rubs his sore-stricken thumb on his patchy forefinger and middle finger, "The scrilla dried up...or went missing, heh."
Garth adds, "It seems like it was likely the latter. But, that's not important. Point is, nobody gives a shit about this place. If it's not too risky, I sometimes go to the higher floors and day-sleep over there. The bathrooms are quite nice, actually. And they have these big windows with an amazing view. I recommend you check them out, honestly."
Tommy chuckles, "Aye, nae be acting like a real estate agent, ya bawbag! No be reminding us of what we're all missing out on."
Garth softly chuckles, but it sounds more like he's grating some rocks, "Sorry. I was a real estate agent in my past life, my--my mortal life, so talking about interiors and the like is a bit of a habit for me. Even after all these years. My sincere apologies."
Tommy claps his fellow Nossie on the back, "Aw, nae bother, pal! Nae bother. The less the others know about us, the better. No offense, but we do like our privacy a bit more than the rest of the Kindred."
John lifts his chin and folds his arms, "And why is that? You seem to know a lot about us, but we don't know much about you or what it is that you do down in the sewers. Hell, we don't even know how to get there!"
Garth replies, "For good reason. Unlike you lot, we're walking breaches of the Masquerade. But, you lot didn't come this far to talk about internal Nosferatu politics, did you? No."
John shakes his head, "No, we didn't, but we'd like to AT LEAST know a bit more about who we're gonna be working with."
Tommy paces around and scoffs, "Well, nae much we can tell yous, hahaha. But, we can assure ye that the info we 'traffick' in is legitimate and that we're a very useful asset to ye in the upcoming...fight." He says the last part in a low voice.
Svetlana bows her head, "We are very thankful and grateful for your help, Tommy."
One can sense a smile behind Tommy's mask, "Nae bother, hen. Nae bother."
The 2 Nosferatu pull out some rickety-looking chairs and sit down on them.
John looks at the chairs, then at the 2 Crawlers, "Do we...do we get a seat, too?"
Tommy dismissively waves his hand, "Naw! We had to walk for a long time. Our legs, arrrgh, are a bit sore from all that walking and climbing. Being a vampire is no always as easy and fun as you think it is. No offense, but you people won't understand. You don't know what it's like to be us, what it's like to live with these...afflictions and the like."
Garth has some sores on his body. He scratches too hard on 1 and it pops. Bloody pus starts to drip from the wound and he groans, "Dammit! Not again!"
Svetlana feels bad for them and sympathetically winces. Zeina averts her gaze. Abdullah looks away as well.
John sucks some air through his teeth, "Jesus, that looks painful."
Garth shrugs, "Really? It does? Hmm, well I don't feel a thing. Honestly." He pats on his wound with a cloth and it begins to rapidly mend itself. Ah, the wonders of a vampiric body.
(Even if it's horribly deformed, covered in sores and other nasties, and barely recognizable as something human).
Tommy sighs deeply and gets to the main point, "Alright, let's be having it, then. We got some munchies for you lot. For starters, we managed to decipher some info on a few patrol routes that these wallopers will take. That's a bit helpful for ya, aye?"
Garth pulls out a PDA which has got some map-markings on it, "These routes here, here, here, and here." He points to each one as he says it.
Zeina's eyes narrow, "How do you know that they will be following these routes?"
Abdullah chimes in and incredulously asks, "You found all THIS from only 7 SD cards?"
Tommy proudly nods, "Aye. We're good at what we do, pal. Very good. We even created and set up a program to make deciphering and piecing-together this shite faster, but we need more data to work from."
Svetlana queries, "What do you need from us?"
Tommy gesticulates and plainly states, "Go chib more of these wallopers, get their SD cards from their phones or other devices, and give them to us."
John looks askance at the 2 Crawlers, "That easy? Somehow I get the impression that there's a lot more to it than...that."
Tommy shrugs, "Maybe there is, maybe there isn't. Who's to say? But, aye, that's the gist of it. You got your work cut out for yous. And if you get caught...well, that would be a focking shame."
Garth adds, "Honestly, the least of your problems would be getting captured. Unlike other SI branches in other parts of the world, these Israelis seem to have a wealth of knowledge in regards to the more...nuanced workings of Kindred Society. I was quite taken aback when I first saw a part of what they have on us."
Abdullah frowns, "What do you mean by that, habibi?"
Garth explains, "Well, it's parts and fragments, but they know quite a lot about the Clans, a few Bloodlines, and even the major Sects, as well. Even the lowest foot soldier is likely briefed on what we are and what our weaknesses are- namely fire, decapitation, wood, freezing cold, and sunlight."
Zeina shakes her head from side to side, her jaw slightly agape.
Abdullah nods, "It is to be expected. On nights like these, the Zionists are a...technologically advanced foe."
John adds, "Yeah, those Israelis, hmph, they're good at the wrong kinda stuff. And that spells trouble for us."
Tommy acknowledges this with a nod of the head, "Aye. They're even scanning the phones as well. Be careful what you say and what you're texting out there."
Svetlana shakily asks, "What do you mean by that?"
The Nosferatu Primogen responds, "There's a list, hen. It rotates every err--"
Garth takes over, "48 to 96 hours. It's a list of keywords. Things like 'Blood', 'Beast', 'Ghoul', what have you- as I said, they know more than your average Inquisitor. If you say these words or any combo thereof, well...expect an unmarked van to pull up at your location in minutes, assuming traffic isn't too shite, heh."
Tommy wrings his hands together, "Mm-hmm. They're even looking for yous...by name, John Suarez." He looks up at John and fixes him with a significant gaze after saying that.
John solemnly nods, "I expect as much."
He changes the subject by lightly chuckling and pointing to the PDA with the routes on it, "PDA, huh? Didn't even know they still made that stuff, heh. I uh...thought they stopped making those."
Tommy narrows his sickly eyes a little, his intense gaze still focused on John, "Nae be changing the subject, ya bawbag. You should be careful about who you call and text. They're onto you, pal. And you know very well what they're capable of."
John scratches his eyebrow and his expression tightens, "I know, I know."
Tommy looks at Garth, "Anything else?"
Garth leans forward and clasps his hands together, "Actually, yes. Do you...have any place to be?"
John narrows his eyes, "Well, yeah...we were hoping to go and get you more SD cards or whatever we can get our hands on. Why, is there something else you 2 wanna share with us? We're uh...all ears."
Garth mirthlessly laughs, "All ears. Yes, very funny, lad. Very funny. While we were deciphering those SD cards, a name kept coming up. A...erm--"
Tommy straightens himself, "A Lieutenant Hilda Klein. Ring any bells...friends?"
The 4 Assamites look at each other and shake their heads. John responds, "Nope. Never heard of her before. What's so special about her, anyways?"
Tommy replies, "Her name kept coming up in a lot in that shite we were going through, but we cannae be certain until you geez more--"
Abdullah raises his finger and politely says, "Err, sorry, I can barely understand a word you are speaking. I mean no offense, of course." He bows his head after saying this.
Tommy's laughter comes out like a gurgled and muffled mess, "Hahahaha! Nae bother, pal. Scottish English is no for everyone, haha! You can understand Garth, right, wee man?"
Abdullah plainly nods, "Yes, I can understand him. Once again, I am very sorry if I...hurt your feelings in any way."
The Nossie Primogen waves his hand lazily, "Aye, nae bother, pal. Nae bother."
Garth nods and takes over, "Like Thomas was saying, she seems important. It's just something to keep your eyes on. Whoever she is, she's pretty vital to their command structure. Perhaps..." he stops halfway through and stares at the ground, deep in contemplation.
John side-eyes the Nossie, "Don't leave us hanging here, buddy. Perhaps what?"
Tommy answers, "Stab fuck out her! If yous manage to get her, that is."
Heh heh.
John signals his agreement with a dry nod, "Yep, it's what we do. It's what the Blade of Haqim was always meant to do..."
"Da," Svetlana solemnly says, a hint of determination in her tone.
Even Abdullah and Zeina are in full agreement.
Tommy watches them with those sickly eyes of his, "Aye. Awright then, you really do NOT like these wallopers, eh?"
John paces about, "Those fucking Israelis, they're nothing but child-killers and bloodthirsty thieves. Almost everyone in the Blade of Haqim has in some way or the other been affected by the actions of the state of Israel, directly or indirectly."
Garth comments, "I see. Well, your interest and involvement in mortal geopolitical issues is quite, dare I say, interesting. Commendable, some might even say. Tell us more about the Blade of Haqim."
John narrows an eye and retorts, "I thought you Nosferatu knew everything about everything..."
Tommy lazily waves his hand about, "Nae be talking pish! We don't know everything and that makes us a wee bit depressed on some nights. So, 'mon then...tell us about yer Blade of Haqim."
John looks at Abdullah and motions for him to do the explaining.
The Assamite Blood Sorcerer steps forward, clears his throat, and starts, "The Blade was formed shortly after the 1948 Nakba, the initial ethnic cleansing of the Palestinian people."
Tommy shakes his head and interjects, "Aye, nasty business. Tragic, too. Go on, wee man."
Abdullah does so, "Wise and learned Banu Haqim from all over Falasteen gathered under a dark and cloudy night."
Garth inquires, "Were other Clans involved in this or was it all just Banu Haqim?"
With some pain in his voice, Abdullah answers, "The other Clans in the region either took part in the atrocities against the Palestinian people or simply turned the other way while the Zionists burned, raped, and pillaged their way through the land. The Banu Haqim were the dominant Clan in the land, until they weren't."
Tommy exclaims, "Focking hell!"
Abdullah sniffs and continues, "Many Banu Haqim saw no other choice but to come together, if only for the sake of survival. However, many of the Blade's founders would be destroyed in the years to come- only a handful now remain."
Zeina steps forward, "Yes. Israel's many military and intelligence operations made sure of that. Now, only a few are left from that fateful night."
Garth asks, "Who? If...you don't mind us asking. As Nosferatu, we're always keen to learn more. More of anything, really."
John answers this query, "Of the many founding members, only uh...an Elder named Fatima Ibn Rashid, my--my Sire; Salim and Malik Mubarak, aka the Mubarak brothers; and Dr. George Fateh. They're pretty much the only known survivors. Everyone else, well..." he trails off and stares into the distance.
"Cor blimey! That's all?!" Garth gasps.
Abdullah points out, "Most of what we know has been orally passed down, from Sire to Childe. I was told that there were dozens at the initial gathering."
Zeina cuts in, "I was told there were 100s!"
John firmly says, "Regardless of the history though, the point is the Blade of Haqim was formed as a direct response against the still-fledgling state of Israel. We uh...could've defeated them then and there, but things didn't pan out that way. Hmm."
Abdullah painfully nods, "Indeed, habibi. In time, it was no longer feasible for the initial Blade members to remain in the land. So they and many of their Childer started to depart. They sought new members amongst the mortals, but they were and still are quite choosy about who is Embraced."
Garth asks, "What's the criteria for Embrace into the Blade? Do you accept Kindred from other Clans?"
Abdullah answers, "The only criteria is any potential member must have genuine sympathy to the Palestinian cause. As for other Clans, no, we cannot accept them. I know of many who have been...betrayed and as some say...sold out by Clans Ventrue, Lasombra, and Toreador."
Zeina backs up what he's saying, "Yes, many bitter experiences over the decades have taught us that other Kindred are not as trustworthy as we would like for them to be. So, anyone who wants to join the Blade will have to be Embraced into it by a Banu Haqim who is already a member."
Tommy queries, "Any run-ins with us Lepers?"
Abdullah quizzically looks at John and asks, "What is he saying, habibi? Sorry."
John smirks, "He's asking if we've ever had any run-ins with his Clan. Have we?"
Abdullah replies, "We have, yes. They have been, how do you say...yes, a mixed bag, I think it is called. Some were exceedingly kind to us while others were not. In truth, that seems to be our experience with all the Clans...AND Sects."
Zeina brings up something from her own past, "I myself encountered a Sabbat-aligned Malkavian who, like me, came from Lebanon. However, her mind was too broken and fragmented, but she appeared sympathetic to our cause."
Tommy's eyes widen, "A Malkavian Antitribu?! How'd you get out of that with yer head still attached to yer body?"
Zeina replies, "She was not a bad person, despite being a member of the Sabbat. She was simply misguided. It is not like the Camarilla, which you pledge your eternal loyalty to, is righteous and without flaw. I have seen the excesses of the Ivory Tower and it disgusts me at times."
Garth muses, "You sound like an Anarch."
Abdullah scoffs, "The Anarchs?! Curse them a million times! They are the ones who are completely opposed to our cause! It was even rumored that some of the earlier Israeli militia and terrorist organizations had Anarch-aligned Kindred in their ranks!"
The Assamite Blood Sorcerer mutters a few sharp swear words in Arabic and angrily goes on, "My very own Sire tried- many times- to approach the Anarchs, but they always turned him down. Walla, ALWAYS! Many even tried to attack him, but they underestimated the power of the Blood. They did not appreciate his command over and knowledge of the Vitae."
Tommy nods, impressed, "Hm, impressive. I mean, no about all that bad shite of course, but the other stuff...fascinating if you don't mind me saying! Oi, Zeina, what's your story, hen?"
Zeina lifts her chin and her expression darkens, "I am the daughter of survivors of the 1982 Sabra and Shatila massacre. I was Embraced while doing my higher studies in Iran in the late 1990s. That is all I will say, Crawler. I do not feel...comfortable sharing the rest of my story with you. And, I am not obliged to do so."
Garth nods in understanding and turns to Mr. Suarez, "We understand. We won't pry, we're not like that. What about you, John? What's your connection to all this? Your accent...it's American and you're not from around the Middle East, or are you?"
John plainly explains, "My dad's Mexican, my mom's American. Hmm, yeah, so I got a bit of both in me, heh. I'm from Magnolia City and that's where uhm...Fatima Ibn Rashid found me and Embraced me."
One gets the feeling that he's holding A LOT back.
Tommy wittily observes, "You're leaving a lot out, pal...why? Something in your past that you don't want us tae know about?"
John's eye twitches and he involuntarily winces, "No, no...it's--it's just that--" he stumbles over his words and struggles to complete his thoughts, which are getting all jumbled up inside his head. He kinda hates being put in the spotlight like this.
A look of anguish comes over his face and he avoids making eye contact with anyone.
Svetlana worriedly looks at her Sire. She gingerly places her cold hand on his back and asks, "John, what happened?"
John faintly smiles at his Childe and nods, "It's alright, Svetlana. I...never mind."
He looks at the duo and says, "I guess I'll just repeat what Zeina said, heh. I um...do not feel comfortable sharing the rest of my story with you. And, I am not really obliged to do so."
Interesting. What's he hiding, and more importantly, WHY is he hiding it?
Now, Svetlana has a few doubts beginning to form in her mind. In the 5 years that she's been by John's side, he's been a good man, an example to follow, and someone who can be trusted.
However, the way he's acting and his responses and overall tone do cause some anxiety for Svetlana over here.
She continues to keep her gaze focused on her Sire, eyes narrowed in deep...suspicion? Skepticism? Both? Neither?
John can feel the pressure of his Childe's green eyes bearing down on him. So, he proceeds to divulge something that might satisfy the innate curiosity of these 2 Sewer Rats, "Uh...my mentor, Dr. George Fateh. He was the one who really opened my eyes to a lot of things."
Tommy clasps his hands together, "Like?"
John sighs, "You could say that he was the one who educated me about the importance of Palestine. Before my Embrace, I thought it was just some crazy religious conflict in the desert that had nothing to do with a guy like me, but Dr. George helped me to get some perspective on things, y'know?"
He looks down and adds, "I--I'll always be grateful to the old man for--for helping me see the light when I was in a really dark and lonely place. He even taught me how to control my Celerity Discipline, to calm down every now and then and...and to just stop, take in, and appreciate my surroundings. The world, sometimes, I--I feel it's too damn slow sometimes."
Garth pointedly asks, "Isn't it usually the Sire's responsibility to teach the Childe, so why didn't this Fatima lass educate you? What 'appened to her?"
John stifles a nervous wince and shakily explains, "She's an Elder, so it's likely that she was Beckoned off to some other place. After she le--left, Dr. George took charge of me. I dunno where F--Fatima is right now."
This is a...very flimsy explanation, all things considered.
John even looks a lot more nervous when bringing Fatima's name on his lips. What happened? What caused her to Embrace this man back in the 1960s?
Svetlana, for her part, hasn't heard any of this before. She's heard John talk a lot about Dr. George, sure, but she's barely heard him talk about his own Sire. Why the evasiveness?
She decides, in her own time, to approach John about these matters. Right now, he seems a wee bit agitated. Either way, Svetlana is a woman who values transparency and honesty; she can't have her own Sire keeping secrets from her!
Well, in all fairness, she herself does keep a few secrets (mainly a very traumatic and painful one) from her Sire, so yeah. She really has to sit down and talk about them 1 night, but when?
They've got Inquisitors to fight. The time for a heart-to-heart talk is not exactly a possibility, not when the proverbial stakes are quite high (and are only getting higher with each passing night).
From there, Mr. Rachman goes on to explain a bit (just a bit) about the Blade's philosophy and ideals. He spends only a few moments doing so.
The 2 Nossies simply nod along and take it all in.
Garth asks, "So, what's your connection to the Blade of Haqim, then?"
For a quick moment, Abdullah hesitates. He gulps and stammers, "I come from Syria. I do not mean ill, but it is not something I wish to speak about. Especially on--on nights like these. Y--You see the news, yes?"
Tommy puts the Assamite Blood Sorcerer at ease, "Nae bother, wee man. Nae bother. We all have things that are too...traumatizing tae talk about."
Garth turns his gaze downwards, "Well, that was quite an...enlightening chat, eh, Thomas?"
Tommy growls in agreement, "Hmm." He appears to be deep in thought.
John furrows his brows, "Thomas??"
The Nosferatu Primogen finally says, "Aye. Never mind aboot that, John."
He turns his attention to Svetlana and calls, "Oi, you doing awright, hen? You have nae spoken aboot much. A lot on your mind, eh?"
Svetlana forces a smile and timidly nods, "Da." She wants to say more, but she decides against it. She gives her Sire an inscrutable look and smiles back at the rest.
Tommy asks the 4 Assamites a broad question, "You got any thoughts on our High Priest??"
Zeina shrugs, "I only saw him once, when we fled to this city. He welcomed us with open arms. I care little for the Ministry."
Abdullah shakes his head, "Like Zeina, I only met with him when we had to flee Dubai. John, what are your thoughts, habibi?"
John sighs, "Well, he's Ministry, a Setite or whatever other names they got for themselves. So far, he's willing to support us in our uh...task, for lack of any better terms. And right now, well, we really could use all the support that we can get against these bastards."
Svetlana nervously lifts her hand, "He has helped us...so far." She doesn't elaborate further because there's quite a lot on her mind at the moment.
From the corner of her eye, she notices something shimmering and flickering in the distance. It's followed by the giggles of a little child. The other Kindred here don't hear or see it, however. She approaches the source of the disturbance with great caution.
Tommy watches her waltz off and he calls out to her, "You doing awright, hen? Where you--"
Svetlana blinks a few times and rounds a corner, she gasps when she sees the Wraith of little Chloe dissolve away. She lets out another gasp and falls on her backside.
Tommy and John quickly run over to pick her up.
Out of concern, John asks, "What happened, Svetlana? Are you...are you OK?"
Svetlana repeatedly nods her head, "Da. Da. I am fine. I...slip. Is no problem."
Tommy softly growls and scrapes his shoe across the floor. He mumbles something incomprehensible to himself and shakes his head.
Abdullah asks Garth, "Habibi, when do you think that we will be able to pay a visit to you down in the sewers?"
Tommy returns and plainly answers, "Geez a few nights tae make everything presentable for yous, awright? We--we do want yous to come visit, but..."
Garth interrupts, "In all fairness, it's not every night you hear of a Kindred who asks to come down and pay us...lowly Nosferatu a visit. In our Havens, no less! In all our time here, I can count on 1 hand the amount of non-Nosferatu who have actually paid us a visit of their own accord."
Abdullah folds his arms, "Has the High Priest not visited you?"
Tommy's scoff comes out like a bad exhaust pipe spitting out fumes, "Pah! That bawbag didnae bother comin' doon once. Not even after we went out of our ways to invite him and his wee pals! For decades, we've been faithful tae this arrangement, the least he can do is come see us!"
Garth concurs with a bitter sigh, "Yes. We have, in the past, provided support to not only Seth Steale but also his Clan as a whole. Favors, of course, are a valuable currency to us Kindred, but the 'beloved' High Priest is all take and no give. We practically have to strong-arm him into making certain...concessions for us. It's...painful, at times."
John folds his arms and states, "So, Seth IS the closest this city has to an authority figure, huh? Why does he keep acting all coy about it, then? Hm, anyway, we gotta get moving. Lemme see that PDA again."
Garth hands the PDA to John. It's a bulky old thing from a decade ago. It looks like it's been slightly modified here and there.
John looks at the stylus and snickers, "Wow, nowadays, you don't even need this. Your phone IS practically everything and much more!"
Garth comments, "Yes, indeed. However, some of us remain...sentimental about past technology. It's also a good way to see how far we've advanced or regressed- technology-wise, of course."
He then commends Abdullah, "It was your idea, wasn't it? Pulling out the SD cards from those dead arseholes. Good lad, good lad."
Abdullah smiles at this compliment and bows his head in respect, "Shkran Lak (AR: Thank you)."
Zeina comes over and looks over John's shoulder as he fiddles around with the PDA's touchscreen. He's trying to memorize the route, but he's not having a good time doing it. After all, it's only been mere weeks since he and the others had to run to this city.
It's still a strange place to him (and the rest).
Zeina comments, "Hmm, these are all densely populated centers. It would be unwise to fight the Zionists in such places. As you know, these accursed kilab (AR: dogs) will not have any issue killing anyone...and everyone in the vicinity."
John concurs, "Yeah, she's got a point. If we hit 'em at most of these routes, we'd be risking a whole lotta innocents. I don't want that on my conscience, nobody does. Wait."
The speedy Assamite narrows his eyes and pans over to a route which is located just a few kilometers south of the city's outskirts. His eyes widen and his lips curl into a smirk, "This one, though...heh, now THAT'S something we can work with! Look." He shows the map to Zeina.
Abdullah comes over and looks, too.
Zeina smiles and remarks, "Oh. Walla, this...could work. Abdullah, yes?"
The Assamite Blood Sorcerer points out, "It is on the outskirts. Yes, it is away from places populated with mortals. It is less complicated that way. Svetlana?"
Svetlana stares off into the distance, her jaw slightly agape. Abdullah calls her name out again, but she remains lost in thought.
Tommy snaps his fingers and calls out, "Oi, hen!"
Svetlana jerks her head around and her eyes focus on Tommy, "Da?"
"'Mon here and have a wee swatch at the routes, eh?" Tommy politely requests.
Svetlana comes over and studies the map and the many red dots that denote the patrol routes of the Inquisitors for the next couple of nights. She points to a route near Sufi Street and asks, "This one, no?"
John clicks his tongue, "Near Sufi Street? No way, that place is packed night AND day, Svetlana. We can't risk innocent lives like that- we're not our enemies, we shouldn't bring ourselves down to their level in our...fight against them."
Abdullah solemnly nods, "Yes, when fighting evil, see to it that you do not become the very evil that you have set out to struggle against. It is better to confront them near this place." He points to the location near the outskirts.
Zeina queries, "Yes, I agree. So, we attack them and take their SD cards. Who are we supposed to bring it to? And more importantly, where?"
Garth offers, "I'll hang around here for a few hours, Ms. Al-Qutub. Same like last time- kill them and bring us the SD cards and any other juicy bits of info you lot can get your hands on."
He quickly reminds them, "But no phones or laptops or any devices. We have no idea what kind of tracking software or malware could be residing within them. They might not appear to be compromised, but we're not about to take that risk just yet."
Tommy adds, "Aye. These wallopers, they're nae stupid. They probably have a few wee surprises up their sleeves after your last encounter, so you best be ready tae rumble with them!"
John faintly chuckles, "Oh, we're ready to tango, alright. So, anything else you wanna talk to us about before we head out? Anything at all? Any tips, tricks, whatever?"
Tommy looks at Garth and he shakes his head.
The Nossie Primogen then gets up from his seat and looks at the 4 Assamites a few times, "Naw. Go and have a fun night, aye? Be careful out there!"
In a very friendly manner, Abdullah inquires, "I hope I am not...err...crossing a line, but do you think if any of your fellow Nosferatu would be willing to aid us in our struggle?"
Tommy sighs deeply, "Naw. It's naw you, it's us. Most of us have nae seen the surface in decades, we're just that good-looking, heh heh. However, we promise aid yous in the digital sphere."
Garth leans back in his seat and speaks up, "Offline, we're not the best and they'll see us coming from a bleedin' kilometer away. However, if the fight were to be taken online, then yes, we're more than ready to do our part in driving the SI away from this...country."
Zeina scoffs and expresses her disbelief by saying, "You are only deluding yourself if you think that you can drive the Second Inquisition from the UAE. What we do might reduce their numbers, but I am not fully confident that we can drive them ALL out. They are far more organized and sophisticated than most realize."
Tommy smirks and claps back, "You are nae the only person tae tell us that, hen. You are right, it is unlikely. But, there's no harm in trying. It's better than nae trying at all! Besides, Seth is really confident about it."
John wittily points out, "Yeah, but he's not here though, is he?"
The Nosferatu Primogen shrugs, "Aye, he's no here. But, that's OK. You and your people are here, and we'll do everything in our power to make sure YOU lot succeed."
Garth concurs, "Yes. It's only the least we can do. The other Clans will come around to supporting you in their own time, but WE are firmly on your side in this fight."
He then tells the 4 Assamites, "Alright, enough talk. The night is still young, and there's a lot to be done. I expect SD cards and pen drives, if possible. Do what you do best and may lady luck smile upon you tonight."
The Banu Haqim quartet grab their stuff, say a few plain goodbyes, and head out. Zeina suggests that they travel to the intended destination via metro, but separately so as not to draw suspicion from the authorities (or whoever else might be watching, wink wink nudge nudge).
Abdullah goes with John while Zeina and Svetlana go together. John and Abdullah decide that the gals should go first, and Abdullah will follow a short time later. John will then wait in the station for a few minutes or so, and then board a separate metro car.
Fingers crossed and blades sharpened.
Once the 4 Angels of Caine have departed, Tommy turns to Garth and says, "Aye, sorted." There's an air of finality in his gravelly tone.
"Hmm, yes. I must say, though. The way these Assamites chose to get involved in mortal geopolitical issues is...almost admirable. I personally stopped caring about such things long ago, but it's people like this that melt away that hardened cynicism a lot of us have developed over the decades."
"Aye. Us Nossies are privy to a lot of secrets, Garth. Secrets that'd make anyone distrusting and cynical. However, what they said did remind me a bit of meself."
"Oh, and how's that?" Garth queries.
Tommy sighs and shakes his head, "Ya awready know that, ya bawbag. Ah, the point is, it's worth supporting them."
Garth gets up and shakes the dust off his clothing, "I don't disagree. But, what is the end goal of this?"
"What do you mean?"
"I mean, after the SI has been driven off or killed from top to bottom, what then? What...comes next?"
The Nosferatu Primogen shrugs, "I...honestly don't know. All I know is that Seth is determined tae see them driven off. I don't know what comes next, Garth. I really wish I did, though."
Little did he know...
Garth sighs and turns his gaze downward, "That's what worries me greatly, Thomas. For now, it looks like all the Kindred in Al-Kushraf, regardless of Clan, are aligned in purpose. That purpose being the complete and total defeat of the Second Inquisition, but what happens when it's finally time to divide the spoils, hmm?"
Tommy narrows his eyes at his fellow Sewer Rat, "You're worried that someone might, what...try tae seize power all for themselves? Aye, I understand where you're coming from, and aye, the thought has crossed my mind once or twice these past few nights."
The Nosferatu Primogen takes a sharp and weary breath and says, "I'm not a fool, I know that this Domain is in a very shaky place with neither Prince nor Sheriff, but at least there's us Primogen to maintain some sense of...order, if nothing else."
"I just worry, Thomas. I don't like being in the dark."
"Haha, Garth, we inhabit spaces hidden away in foundations that nearly everyone topside has forgotten aboot. We are, by our very nature, creatures of the darkness. We exist in the shadows, even more so for us lot. But, that's fine because it's nae always a bad thing, y'know?"
"Yes, yes, I know. Do you...trust the High Priest?"
Tommy's laugh comes out like a gurgle, "Ah, Garth, do we have the luxury of NOT trusting others, especially now? Hmm, hmm?"
Garth paces around, "Yes, well, he is a Setite and they are always a very tricky lot to deal with, let alone predict. I'm sure you've already heard about the recent rumors surrounding his...cult."
"It's his business, no ours, Garth. The last thing we should do is go around poking our noses where it's no needed."
"Yes, yes, you're right. I'm sorry, Thomas. You should really get going, yeah? You got that Malkavian, Mr. Bean, to meet with. I can't believe you're actually let HIM come down to the sewers. Are you sure it's wise letting someone...like that into our spaces?"
Tommy sniffs a few times, "Aye, it was Absalom who 'insisted' that Mr. Bean come doon tae the sewers and pay us all a wee visit on behalf of the Malkavians. Aye, I know. I was pretty reluctant at first, but..."
He pauses for a bit, and then says, "But, Absalom is a scary bawbag and I wanna know more aboot him. Maybe they're not the right ones, maybe they're the wrong ones. Either way, we should support the Malks as much as we support the Assamites. It's a good deal for us."
Garth chuckles lightly, "That's why you're our Primogen, Tommy. You know how to play the game and balance out the various parties involved in this. But, yes, we should support them both. I just worry a little bit too much, sometimes."
Tommy puts his hand on his friend's shoulder, "Aww, nae worry, pal. It's just who we are."
So, Mr. Bean, the Malkavian with bleached hair, is paying a visit to the Crawlers down in the sewers. This was only because of 2 things.
1. He's curious about the Nosferatu, even more so than other bloodsuckers, which is surprising to the Nossies for reasons obvious.
2. Mr. Bean's adoptive Sire, Absalom, is an enigma that Tommy wishes to know more about in the few weeks that the Elder has been here, and Mr. Bean represents an opportunity to learn a wee bit more about the Malkavian Primogen.
So, off Mr. Bean goes and meets up with the Crawlers down in the dark and manky sewers of Al-Kushraf, UAE. It's a damn good thing that vampires don't have functioning respiratory systems.
Tommy has no idea how their chat would go and if he'll get any useful information out of the eccentric Malk, but ehh.
The Nosferatu are also helping the Malkavians in their fight against the SI- sharing the same info, secrets, etc. It's only fair to do so.
During the train ride, Svetlana spots glimpses of little Chloe's Wraith flickering in and out of view. None of the others on the train (mortals, mainly) notice the shimmering child.
None of them but Svetlana can hear her cutely calling out, "Setlana! Setlana! Come play with me! Come see this! Setlana!"
Svetlana tries her absolute damnedest to ignore the spirit, but she's not doing such a great job of it. She is, however, doing a great job of ignoring the strange and disturbing feeling that's forming within the depths of her undead heart.
It's an uneasy and anxious one, and it's telling her to do something, ANYTHING, about the haunting presence.
Svetlana sees the dead child's shimmering reflection in the glass of the train doors.
The young Assamite lightly gasps and looks away from the ghost and turns her attention back to the real world, where she can actually affect her surroundings.
She's sitting close to the door, her hands tightly grasping her bag's straps. She's sitting beside a window and the city lights zip past at a speed that is almost surreal.
Meanwhile, at the designated patrol point, a handful of Inquisitors have arrived and are patrolling the area. They're dressed in plain Western attire and their guns are mostly concealed or small enough to fit within their clothing.
There are also a few vehicles parked nearby. They're the standard kind- the kind that's not too expensive, not too cheap, and not too flashy. The perfect cars for patrolling the streets of this city and not drawing attention to oneself.
Their vehicles are all parked a bit ways off from the actual route.
There's a few tall and dark buildings around them- mostly office and commercial spaces that happen to be closed for renovations for the time being.
A few innocent mortals mill about here and there- there's a gaggle of college kids smoking some cheap weed and looking at memes on their phone.
On another end, a tired group of Southeast Asian construction workers trudge along back to their pitiful hovels after a hard and brutal day under the hot sun. Like many in this damn city, they were lured here with the prospect of a better life and good money.
However, upon arrival, they were brutally beaten, their passports were seized, and they are now forced to work under inhuman conditions for the meager sum of a few dirhams per hour- barely enough for one's needs in a city with a high cost of living.
The Inquisitors take note of their presence, but they don't give a shit.
The goon at the front nods over to the group, "Any blank bodies among those assholes?" he has a thick New York accent.
A man behind him shakes his head, "No. Just stay alert and stay ready. They could be anywhere...anyone."
A woman in a denim jacket and jeans offers, "Why the fuck are we even all the way out here?"
The NY accent guy scoffs, "Because Lieutenant Hilda Klein ordered us to take this long and complex route for tonight, that's fuckin' why."
Another chick speaks through a earpiece, "She's a hardass. And she's absolutely fucking crazy. Did you see that necklace she wears? FANGS, fucking fangs of the blank bodies she herself personally killed back in err--"
Another dude interjects, "Ramallah. They don't call her the 'Raider of Ramallah' for shits and giggles, heh. Anyways, how are those drones doing, we got coverage yet??"
The woman hisses through the earpiece, "Yes, yes. They're barely audible. Hey, Chaim, say 'cheese'!"
The guy named Chaim looks up at the sky and flashes the peace sign. How ironic. Such peace-less warmongers flashing the sign of peace.
A few drones hover in the sky. They're quite noisy and their frames are a bit bulkier than usual. A live camera feed is in 1 of the nearby parked vehicles and a woman not only controls the drone fleet but also monitors the video footage.
In the van, she adjusts the zoom levels, filters, and focus.
She looks at the screen and comments, "Alright, we have got clear footage. Good job, Chaim. Hey, guys, can you hear us clearly, or do I need to tweak the settings again?"
She asks these questions through the radio and the response is positive.
The New York accent guy clears his throat, "Nope. Crystal clear. How's it look from up there?"
At this time of night, the surrounding buildings look like protruding slabs of obsidian stabbed into the ground by some really big, burly hands.
The drones slowly and gently glide through the air and take in the sights. The footage is sent back to the video operator's laptop.
From up high, the Inquisitors' patrol point is surrounded by the buildings and a few empty lots and the road itself.
Aside from the parked vehicles, the street is empty. The college kids scatter after a few moments and these thugs continue their secret patrol. Some of them have their hands on their guns, whilst others assume a more relaxed and casual stance.
Chaim speaks up, "So, I heard Lt. Klein and her team captured a potential suspect. Some American named Aaron Hart. He's not talking, but Yishai is confident that he'll break soon enough."
The NY dude nods, "Well, he better start singing. 4 fucking days and that son of a bitch is still holding out on us. He's definitely a blank body sympathizer." The malice in his tone is quite apparent.
The drone operator chick offers her 2 cents, "I don't know why Yishai hasn't started cutting his fingers off yet. He should've started that 48 hours ago. He's getting soft." She says this so cheerily, so nonchalantly like it's so normal.
Someone else reminds her, "The Commander himself ordered Yishai to go easy on this lawyer."
NY guy mumbles, "Well, we all know what Yishai's definition of 'go easy on someone' is, heh. Forget it, it's not our problem. Just stay frosty and keep those eyes peeled, people! Fuckers could be anywhere. Anywhere."
After a few minutes, John arrives with Svetlana, Abdullah, and Zeina following in tow. He orders them to stay low and crouched behind a pair of bushes. There's a single street lamp flickering overhead, but the 4 Assamites manage to avoid detection from the drones overhead.
So far, anyway. 1 wrong move could be disastrous.
Abdullah squints and points up at the sky, "What is that, habibi? Birds or...?"
John also squints to get a better look, "Holy shit. Those are drones. Great. Svetlana?"
"Da?"
"Think you can slink past 'em using your Obfuscate? We just need you to scout up ahead and give us an estimate of how many there are...and what kinda heat they're packing."
Svetlana confidently nods. She stands up and her entire body begins to shimmer and warp, and her shape starts to shift a little. Her form gets blurrier and blurrier by the second, until it disappears from sight altogether. Only her presence is still feel-able (sort of).
It's the weirdest thing to behold- a presence with no form to speak of. Like, it's as if a strong wind were blowing about the area and making things a little harder to see.
The Banu Haqim Neonate swallows her fears and apprehensions and steps forward. She channels more of her Vitae into her Obfuscate when a few of those thugs look in her direction.
She takes a few steps towards the patrol unit until she's within earshot range of their conversation.
NY accent guy chortles, "So, yeah, that's how I'm here now, hahahaha! Gotta love those Birthright trips!"
Chaim smirks and walks a little faster. Everyone else looks around and takes in the sights. Svetlana does her absolute best to not "de-cloak" as it were. She has never done something like this before, walking closely amongst the enemy.
So, it's quite an ambitious move to perform, even for a relatively young Assamite. She hopes that she can do her best under the pressuring circumstances.
She overhears this particular group boasting about the various war crimes they've committed in the Occupied Territories. 1 of them even boasts about how she stole a man's really nice carpet from Jenin and had him arrested on trumped-up terror charges.
Typical.
Absolute assholes. At this point, the still-invisible Svetlana grips her daggers and grits her teeth in anger, but she holds herself back from lunging forward and striking.
Just then, the drone operator lass speaks through the earpiece, "Hey, guys? I'm getting some...abnormalities on my end. Everything OK down there?"
The New York dude replies, "The fuck it is. Why wouldn't it be? I don't see fucking squat from where I'm standing. Why, what's up, hmm?"
"N--Never mind. It must be some glitch. You know that everything you're saying and doing IS being recorded and livestreamed back to the Command Center, right?"
"Yeah, yeah, I know. Now, get out of my fuckin' head!"
Lovely guy, no doubt a complete psycho just like the rest of these "lovely" Inquisitors.
Svetlana follows closely, her form completely unseen and her footsteps completely silent. However, she can't stay Obfuscated forever, so she quickly counts whoever is in her line of sight.
After that, she returns to John and the rest of her fellow Banu Haqim. Her body flickers and wavers a little bit before becoming visible once again.
She says, "They have a lot. A lot. Many people, I saw."
John raises an eyebrow, "Oh? How many is 'a lot', exactly? Give us an estimate." He then leans in closer, "Are they armed to the teeth, too? Like, the guns and such?"
Svetlana thinks and replies, "Many, many, da. I count at least...12. There may be more, however."
Zeina pulls out her long dagger and looks at its tip, "12 is...easy. Let's go."
John tightly grips her hand and glowers at her, "Wait, dammit. Wait. We need a plan. We just can't rush in there. Abdullah, any ideas?"
Abdullah slits his wrist and smirks as some blood falls to the ground, "Give me your weapons, my friends. I will give it a little extra...spice, so to speak."
John shrugs and hands Abdullah his katana. Abdullah whispers a few words in Arabic and smears his Vitae on the hilt of John's sword. Next, he applies a drop of his Blood on each of Svetlana's daggers.
Lastly, he lets some of his Blood fall on Zeina's dagger and whistles softly.
John's eyebrow goes up, "Whoa. So, what's that gonna do for our weapons?"
Abdullah plainly answers, "It will help you, habibi. It will cut through their defenses and let your blows hurt more than they are meant to. Go now, and see it for yourself. I will support you from here as best as I can. I do not want to consume all of my Vitae."
John pats his buddy on the back, smiles, and whooshes off in a second. With his Celerity Discipline active, he initiates the assault and makes a beeline towards the goons.
They're too busy blabbing and smoking that they don't even see him coming until he's just a few centimeters away.
They yell and reach for their firearms, but it's too late. The speedy Assamite decapitates 2 of them in 1 single swift swing. Their heads go rolling in a bloody spray.
"CONTACT--!"
Zeina yanks that sucker to a corner and slices his neck open, spilling his blood all over the place. Svetlana lunges at a lady and plunges a dagger into her back. She goes down screaming and writhing in pain.
John cuts another woman's throat open and a gush of blood spills out and covers his face. He licks his lips and shakes his head. His katana's blade is stained crimson.
A man screams and charges at John with a wooden stake, but he dodges and weaves to the side and drives his katana right into the stake-wielder's guts.
The Assamite grunts and snarls and stabs and swings. Another Inquisitor shoots wildly, but John's quick and nimble legs carry him around like a gymnast. He slashes the bastard across his back, his blood going flying and splashing all over the place.
Svetlana ducks under a clumsy swing and stabs her attacker right in the neck with her ceramic dagger. She growls as they gurgle and choke on their own blood.
John looks down at his sword and smirks, "Holy shit. It really does cut through their defenses and hit them hard, huh? Nice, NICE!"
He sees a couple of goons running up, so he leaps high in the air and brings his katana down onto the nearest thug. The others pepper him with gun fire, he groans and winces in pain, so he quickly retreats.
Zeina engages in a physical altercation with someone who is hellbent on staking her. She grabs him by the shirt and growls in his face. She's injured from the gunfire, but she's not about to quit.
He yells and punches her. She staggers back, and he takes advantage of the opportunity and tackles her to the ground. She struggles and pushes back, her face contorting in pain and frustration.
The guy punches her in the face repeatedly. Zeina's dagger is a few inches away from her grasp, so she struggles to grab it. It's no use. She can't reach it. The goon has his entire weight on her body and he's going to town on her, so there's no way to free herself.
Zeina lets out an inhuman roar, "URRRNHH! GET OFF! GET OFF! AAAAARGH!" she bares her fangs and screams as she digs her sharp claws into her enemy's arms and back.
The dude is not deterred, so he goes at her some more. She kicks and punches and snarls, but nothing seems to work.
John ducks behind a dumpster, "Damn, they're really pouring on the heat. Shit!" he pats himself on the chest and tries to come up with an idea to deal with this new development.
"Go, go, go! Engage, engage! Don't let 'em get you! Stakes in the chest--"
Whoever said that is pulled away by Svetlana in her Obfuscated form. She stabs her obsidian dagger through their heart and then discards their body.
John snickers and whooshes back into action. He picks up a spent shotgun from a nearby corpse, charges a guy and blasts him in the chest at really close range. The goon's shirt is blown away in tatters. His blood goes everywhere and a couple of shards get lodged in his chest.
John throws the shotgun away and Svetlana rapidly stabs another thug again and again in the chest with both of her daggers. His blood is all over the place and he flails and goes down screaming in agony.
Another thug rushes to Svetlana and squeezes a burst of SMG fire into her stomach. The force is strong enough to cause the Assamite Neonate to collapse forward, face-first into a pile of her dead foes.
On the floor, she groans and writhes in pain. These wounds will take time to mend themselves.
Zeina continues her struggle against the man who's pummeling her. She tries to get off of him, but he's strong and he has this wild, unhinged look in his eyes. He smacks her in the face 1 more time and is about to bring down a wooden stake on her chest when he suddenly stops.
His body jerks a few times and blood starts flowing out of his mouth. He chokes and wheezes and drops dead on the ground.
Abdullah stands there, wrist bloodied. He's panting and heaving slightly. Zeina quickly springs up, thanks him, and joins the rest of her fellow Assamites.
Svetlana is still on the ground, but her wounds don't look as bad as they did a few moments ago. John continues slashing away and is able to hold his ground, but the gunfire is making that a lot harder than expected.
He can't keep on using his Celerity to dodge the bullets whizzing past him. Eventually, he'll burn out. The only thing that he can do is run, but he's not the type to just run away.
Svetlana, finally healed up, leaps into the fray and starts stabbing and cutting up more of these assholes. She howls into the night and cuts them down mercilessly.
Zeina jumps in and and dodges a few wooden stakes that the operatives try to stab her with. She responds in kind by stabbing their chests with her long dagger and twisting it to make their deaths that much more grievous.
She gets tackled and wrestles for control, but she eventually pushes her opponent off of her and plunges her knife deep into their head. The dying thug gurgles and bleeds out.
A guy from behind peppers the vampires with more gunfire and scampers away. He begins stammering, "Oh, shit, oh shit! Reinforcements! I need reinf--"
Svetlana pulls him out and swipes her daggers across his face with all the force and rage that her body can muster. He shrieks and howls in pain as he gets disfigured. He's still alive, but barely.
She hisses and brings him close. Through gritted teeth, she says, "The Blade Judges you." With that, she finishes him off and dumps his body in the dark corner.
Another thug manages to get away, but not for long. She ducks around a corner, loads a fresh clip, and fires wildly into the fray. Her shots mostly go wide, but the random spraying causes her opponents to duck for cover.
Meanwhile, John manages to charge and slash through another couple of Inquisitors, their blood spraying across the floor.
Abdullah remains hidden. Blood Sorcery is quite taxing on the body and is not meant to be tossed around like hot falafels. He does do a few neat tricks here and there, but for the most part, he sticks to the comfort of the shadows.
Zeina slices up an enemy and dodges a bullet at the same time.
She quickly spots a few more reinforcements coming in black SUVs and large vans, "We got more here! MANY more! That way! LOOK!"
Abdullah sees a bunch of armored thugs roll in. A couple of heavy drones follow closely, their buzzing noise filling the air. They're armed and ready.
The kid gasps slightly, ducks behind some dumpsters, and gets a closer look at wave 2.
He sees 4 Inquisitors all decked out in heavy black riot armor. They're all holding bulky shotguns. He smears his Vitae on his fingers and then focuses on those new arrivals. He shuts his eyes, takes a sharp and long breath, and then chants some words of Arabic under his breath.
A kind of sizzling sound goes off near 1 of the heavies. Their shotgun starts to smoke and heat up and the heavy yells and drops their weapon, "MY SHOTGUN, THE SHOTGUN'S ACTIN' UP! FUCK! IT'S MELTING--AHHH, IT'S BURNIN' MY DAMN FINGERS! THEY'RE GETTIN' BOILED AWAY! YAAAAAA!"
Zeina is busy fighting someone who has a pistol in 1 hand and a wooden stake in another. They shoot at her a few times, but she dodges most (not all) of the shots.
She responds by slashing, but they're fast enough to not only dodge her dagger but also deliver a very painful kick to her jaw.
The Banu Haqim stumbles and shakes her head and growls in anger. This asswipe is really starting to really piss her off!
Zeina tries to swing her dagger, but that other person dodges and counters by bashing her face with the pistol.
Svetlana leaps high in the air and slices an enemy across their chest with both daggers. She stabs another in the thigh and throws them onto the floor. They gasp and choke and wheeze in pain.
She finishes them off by stomping her foot into their head with as much force and ferocity as her Unliving body can muster. A sickening "CRUNCH!" sound goes off and blood flies everywhere.
John tries to take down the heavy that's complaining about their malfunctioning gun. The heavily armored (and heavily armed) Inquisitor yells, "SHOOT IT! SHOOT IT NOW!" and starts shooting indiscriminately with their shotgun.
Oh no.
That shotgun spews out dragon's breath rounds. John stops in his tracks, his pupils dilate, and his Rötschreck (fear of the fire) is triggered. The dragon's breath round is a special kind of ammunition that, simply put, hurts like hell.
So, when the shotgun goes off, its fiery blast singes and chars the ground near him. He screams and scampers away like a fearful puppy and dives behind some cover.
Svetlana sees the fire from the corner of her eye and gasps in terror. The searing flames cause her to shiver uncontrollably. She freezes in place and her jaw hangs open.
The sight of these flames force her inner Beast to compel her to run as far away from it as is humanly possible.
Zeina, having managed to beat her assailant and take the pistol away from them, notices this strange phenomenon going on. Even she gasps in terror and bolts to the nearest solid object that can work as cover.
Abdullah's eyes are wide with fear, but he remains in his advantageous hiding spot. He looks at the drones flying overhead and asks himself whether it's possible to utilize his Blood Sorcery to take those annoying things down.
The buzzing alone is irritating, but the drones don't look like they have any guns attached, so that's good.
Speaking of wave 2, a few operators fan out of an SUV and begin laying down some heavy suppressive fire while the heavies menacingly advance. More's the pity, as they say.
The 4 Assamites are hit by some stray shots, but their wounds are mending (albeit at a slower pace) so they're not out of the fight just yet! The heavy shotgunners get close whilst the other operatives continue shooting away.
It's a bit of a pickle now.
The Assamites need to take these new foes down before they are completely and totally overwhelmed. It's gonna be quite the ordeal. The flames from the shotguns aren't making it any easier.
Abdullah gathers his composure, takes a hard gulp, slashes his forearm with his claw, and swipes his hand at the sky above. Almost immediately, the drones begin to fizz out and fall from the sky.
From the comfort of her vehicle, the drone operator chick hisses through her comms device, "FUCK! The drones! They--they're down! I'm blind over here!"
An operative takes cover behind a vehicle and replies, "Say again, say again. What happened to the drones?! Come in?!"
Between her mending wounds and Obfuscate, there's only so much Vitae that Svetlana can muster up and channel. So, when a bullet or a fire round hits her, her skin takes time to come back together, and she groans in pain.
The 4 of them need to end this soon while also fulfilling their objective and bringing back SD cards for the Nossies to decipher.
John shakes his head, shakes away his fears, and runs out towards a heavily armored guy with a heavy shotgun. His preternatural speed allows him to dodge a few stray rounds and he quickly closes in and jumps on the armored Inquisitor and violently slashes his sword across the guy's face.
Hit and run seems to be the way to go. The others catch up quickly. Zeina bum-rushes the non-heavies and slices their arms off with bestial ferocity. Blood sprays everywhere and screams of terror fill the night.
1 of those heavies goes down and dies when Zeina dives and stabs her long dagger through their chest plate with such force that the blade comes out the other side. She rips the blade out and cuts off another guy's head.
John charges in again and slices 1 of those heavies across their arm. Svetlana Obfuscates, approaches another operator, and then stabs them in their knee.
She follows it up with a swift stab in the neck. The heavy chokes and bleeds out and dies.
3 heavies down, 1 more left. She curses in Hebrew and begins to viciously unload her incendiary munition on these fast vamps. Her face contorts into a very angry, almost unhinged expression.
John rushes towards her, but the Inquisitor gets a few shots in before he can reach her. His legs buckle slightly and he staggers and groans in pain. Svetlana tries to stab the heavy, but she's smacked with the butt of the shotty.
The heavy squeezes off a shot in Zeina's direction. She gets grazed and singed by the fiery shotgun blast, but she dodges most of the spray. She hisses in pain, her eyes red with anger and fear. She pounces on a nearby goon and wrestles them to the ground.
The Banu Haqim growls in pain as the Inquisitor shoots her in the midriff a few times. Zeina brushes the pain off and bares her fangs. She snarls at her foe.
The heavy reloads and quickly pumps another round, but not before Abdullah unleashes another sanguine spell and forces that shotgun to malfunction.
Abdullah steps out of his cover. With his bleeding palm outstretched, he recites something in his native tongue and the heavy begins to levitate a few inches off the ground.
Abdullah's mouth moves rapidly as he begins to whisper under his breath. His eyes are wide and unblinking. His expression is hardened with determination and focus.
He clenches his fingers into a tight fist and then the Zionist's blood boils and her ENTIRE body explodes in a bloody pulp, leaving nothing intact. Svetlana dives to the side to avoid the bloody gush, and then she gets to her feet.
A few of the goons that have survived are bewildered by this sheer display of supernatural force. Some are dragging their dead and/or injured with them.
There's still a few operatives left, though, so the fighting isn't done yet. The Unit 8211 thugs scream and begin wildly shooting at whoever's in their line of sight.
Zeina is hit a few times, but she grits her teeth and returns the favor by stabbing and slashing some operators to death. Abdullah remains where he is, a bit tired and exhausted, and Svetlana messily Obfuscates to get to safety.
John rushes over to Zeina and begins aiding his fellow Assamite.
Their wounds don't heal as quickly, so the pair is forced to go for hit-and-run maneuvers to avoid taking too many hits. Abdullah leans against a wall and pants hard, trying to regain some strength before heading back into the fray.
John and Zeina have some bullets lodged in their cold bodies, but they don't feel it that much. Their Beast keeps them going, keeps them killing the bastards who mean ill.
1 of the remaining Inquisitors tries to reload and fix their malfunctioning weapons, but another one of their comrades smacks the gun and yells, "It's useless, STAKES! NOW!"
A mean-looking fella rushes John with a long and sharp piece of wood. John barely dodges and returns the favor by slashing the enemy across the back. A long and bloody streak appears on their body.
Zeina tackles another soldier to the floor and stabs them 5 times in the chest, neck, and head. Her arms are coated in blood. She roars in pain as the bullets dig into her cold body.
Svetlana looks at the carnage around her and suggests, "Abdullah. Do not waste time! Go, get SD cards! We will...we will fight them! GO!"
Abdullah weakly nods and complies. He runs through stray gunfire and begins scavenging the dead corpses all around him for those valuable SD cards, pen drives, and such. It takes a while and the gunfire isn't helping.
Zeina cuts another operative up. They drop their gun and go down screaming. The Banu Haqim snickers and continues her gory assault, stabbing and slicing anyone she can reach.
John is almost stabbed in the chest with a stake, but Svetlana intervenes and stabs the stake-wielder in the arm with her ceramic dagger. For good measure, she rams her obsidian dagger right in their throat, producing a messy and brutal death.
Another thug charges Svetlana and shoots her in the leg. She's too pissed to be bothered, so she howls, kicks the thug away, and stabs her enemy to death- repeatedly.
Another stake-wielding thug tries to pounce on Zeina, but John runs in and slices their hand off, making them drop their wooden implement.
Zeina then slashes their face up and snaps their neck.
Nearby, a bulky SUV starts up. John's ears perk up and he says, "Oh, hell no." In an instant, he whooshes off like thunder and catches up to whoever's in that car.
It's that drone operator chick and she blasts John with a shotgun, but he's got fury written all over his bloodied face.
John snarls, "Think you can drive off in that? THINK AGAIN!"
The thug pulls out her pistol and frantically shoots at him, but he either dodges or tanks the shots from that peashooter.
She shrieks and raises her gun. John's too close now, though, and he slices the Inquisitor's arm clean off. She howls in pain and bleeds out all over the place.
After a few seconds, he pulls her closer and shoves his katana deep in her abdomen. She coughs blood all over and he growls in her face and hisses, "The Blade Judges you." He pulls his bloody sword out of her and lets the dying fascist slide down her seat.
John angrily stares at the corpse, and then looks at the various computers and screens that this woman had set up in this vehicle. He also looks at the drone footage that's being livestreamed back to the Unit 8211 Command Center.
He's no techie, so he opts for the caveman approach. He violently slashes, stomps, punches, breaks, and kicks these machines, and he also crushes and mangles the screens. The audio recording equipment is smashed up as well, just for good measure.
After a few moments, Abdullah comes running back to Svetlana and Zeina. John comes back, and then they all collectively decide that the best thing to do is get out of dodge before the cops get here.
All that gunfire and screaming was bound to attract the attention of the cops, that's f'sure! Also, these 4 vamps don't really have it in them to face off against wave 3.
Abdullah has quite a chunky handful of SD cards cupped in both his hands. John offers to take some and he puts them in his pockets.
Svetlana looks down at her slightly tattered clothes. Her eyes widen a bit and she exclaims, "We...survived."
John sharply exhales, "Yeah. Wait a sec--"
He spots a malfunctioning drone on the ground. With heaviness punctuating each step, he strides over and picks up a piece of that drone, namely its camera.
He looks into it while the others remain out of frame.
A small smile forms upon his face and he begins, "I know you're watching this. You know who I am, don't you? You got stuff on me, I'm sure you do. It's what you..."
He pauses for dramatic effect before continuing, "...Israelis do, right? Well, I won't waste either of our time. Whoever's watching this, be sure of 1 thing: we're coming for you...all of you. Tonight was just the appetizer, you assholes."
He makes sure that none of his fellow Assamites are in the frame, "The main course is gonna be something and there's gonna be whole lot more of us comin' out of the woodwork when it's time, you better fucking count on it. And don't even get me started on desserts, heh."
With a smirk on his face, John concludes, "Oh, and 1 last thing: Free Palestine." He winks, throws the severed drone camera down, and stomps on it with as much fury as he can muster.
Abdullah shakes his head and chuckles, "Ah, habibi. Are you sure that was wise?"
Zeina can't help but smirk at John's...chutzpah. Putting those Unit 8211 assholes on notice is, admittedly, a bold move. Especially since they all know what Unit 8211 is capable of.
Svetlana faintly smiles and nods her head as way of response.
The Assamite quartet look around them. Smashed drones, severed limbs and heads, bloodied bodies, smoking guns, bullet holes in various solid objects...the sight is something.
In 1 word? Carnage.
John scoffs, "Well, the nights ahead ain't gonna get any better from here on out, that's for damn sure. Pfft." There's a hint of cockiness in his tone.
Zeina shrugs and says, "We are here now." She takes an SD card and holds it up, "And we have this. Let us hope that our Nosferatu friends can make good use of this."
The 4 Assamites hear the sounds of vehicles coming their way, so they get the hell out of there.
Phew!
Eventually, they all return to their Havens. Zeina calls in "sick" since she's in no state of mind to work, what with her being so aromatically fresh from the slaughter of such vile fiends who mean ill.
John and Svetlana each return to their respective Havens. They get out of their flecked and (somewhat) tattered clothes, take a nice shower, and call it a day (or a night?).
Abdullah, meanwhile, delivers all the salvaged SD cards back to Garth, who's simply in that same abandoned building. He's merely cutting about the gaffe and idly pacing around.
Garth grunts in astonishment, and his eyes widen when he sees just how many SD cards fall into his open hands.
"Blimey! You killed a lot of them, didn't you! Good god!"
Abdullah plainly nods, "It is nothing that we should take delight it, but it necessary nonetheless. I do sincerely hope that you are able to find something of use from this, habibi."
Garth softly laughs, "Ah, don't worry, lad. This is worth its weight in gold."
The Assamite and Sewer Rat spend a minute or so chatting about this and that. After that, Garth retreats back into the familiar comfort of the sewers, loot safely secured on his person.
Abdullah looks so...tired. His eyes have this sort of emptiness to them, his steps are sluggish and slower than usual, his body is aching all over, and his mouth is quite dry. Whatever Blood Magic he did clearly took a toll on his body.
After a quick shower to wash away the grime and blood of combat, the Assamite youth collapses on his bed and lets out a sharp and long sigh.
4 Judges alone can't be expected to take on a whole shitload of heavily-armed and juiced-up Israeli maniacs. It's about time that the other Blade of Haqim members got involved.
However, many of them are still having trouble adjusting to the city. Hell, many of them still haven't found a job yet, which is probably why many took the chance and left for Turkey when given the choice.
Either way, those who remain WILL get involved. It's just a matter of organizing and guiding these (very) capable bloodsuckers.
A few hours later, in the main Unit 8211 HQ...
Commander Obed Gallant bangs on a desk with his fists. He pulls out his headset and angrily tosses it at the nearest wall. A nearby operative tries to calm him down, but that only makes it worse.
The Commander stands up from his elaborate desk chair and grunts, "WHAT HAPPENED OUT THERE?!"
Lt. Hilda Klein strides in. She looks to be in her 30s, fair skin, dark eyes, brown hair tied back into a strict ponytail. She wears a military outfit that has a black turtleneck shirt, black cargo pants, black combat boots, and a tactical harness over her torso.
She looks quite muscular and has a very imposing and no-nonsense demeanor about her. She's still got that grotesque necklace made of vampire fangs around her neck.
She lifts her chin, straightens her back, and salutes her Commander, "Sir!"
Commander Obed sighs and salutes her back, "Lieutenant Klein. What the hell happened down there?! We lost all our overhead footage halfway through."
Lt. Klein plainly answers, "The blank bodies scattered by the time we showed up, sir. It was--"
She pauses and gulps. Her lips shake a little, "--a slaughter, sir. I immediately ordered my team to begin cleaning up the mess."
Lt. Maximillian Veifer is nearby and he asks, "Did these animals take anything?"
Lt. Klein nods, "Yes. Our devices are missing their SD cards. Again."
Commander Obed, surprisingly, doesn't have any negative reaction to that.
He cracks a subtle smirk and says, "Lieutenant Davidai was right in recommending that we install that worm in the devices. Let us hope and pray that these vile creatures won't know any better."
Lt. Klein adds, "If it's true, then we will be able to cripple their cyber defenses and ultimately draw them out. We'll need to prepare accordingly, sir. So far, they have been unpredictable and savage, and that I do not like."
"Let them. It will be the end of them, Lt. Klein." Commander Obed is being uncharacteristically...happy about this? He seems really confident about his decisions.
He walks towards a large screen, puts his hands behind his back, and continues, "The worms will infect any and all devices it comes in contact with. At least that's how I'm told it works."
Lt. Klein queries, "Would it not have been better to install some kind of...tracking software?"
Commander Gallant shakes his head, "No. That would be obvious and they would simply relocate, and we would be nowhere. These blank bodies, they have a tendency to move around a lot...like rats." The scorn that laces his tone is quite disturbing.
Lt. Klein scoffs, "So, we block all their exits, cut off their critical supplies, and...?"
The Commander sighs and paces around, "We strike. Tell me, Hilda, how many bodies have you managed to recover? How many of Am Yisrael's bravest have perished on this night?"
"21, sir. Those--those were the ones who were most identifiable, sir."
The nearby techs and analysts fall deathly silent. Uneasiness falls over the entire Command Center. It's a large, circular room full of powerful computers, mounted screens displaying all sorts of surveillance footage from the city, and other advanced equipment worth millions of dollars.
(A damn waste of money is what it is).
The air is still and no one dares to move.
Commander Gallant solemnly nods, "That is quite the toll. Nevertheless, these 21 brave men and women- soldiers and techs- will be given the funeral that they rightfully deserve. A valiant hero's burial."
The other operators and officers begin clapping and saluting their dead allies.
Commander Gallant adjusts his kippah and sniffs, "When the drones were still active, we counted 4 blank bodies- there could have been more lurking in the shadows, however. What is your estimate, Lt. Klein? How many do you think were present?"
Lt. Klein dryly answers, "Without proper intel, I cannot give you an answer, sir. But, if I were to make a tactical estimate, I'd say somewhere around 6 highly-trained, likely older, blank bodies were present."
The Commander presses his lips into a thin line and nods, "Hmm. Interesting. Dismissed, Lt. Klein. And thank you."
She firmly salutes her superior, turns on her heel, and walks off to take care of some other things.
After a minute, Lieutenant Liora Raz approaches. She's holding an iPad and has an expression on her face that can be described as a mix of intrigue and confusion.
The Commander glares at her and asks, "What is it now, Lieutenant Raz?"
Lt. Raz replies, "I've finished enhancing the footage from the drones, sir. This should be good. Hopefully."
The Commander rubs his short beard and asks, "Oh, really now? Have you made a positive identification on the other aggressors present?"
"No, sir. I was hoping to show it to you first. We're waiting for your approval before we can task the LVNDR system with tracking them down."
"Hmm. Show me who these worthless animals are."
Lt. Raz swipes her finger and a picture of Zeina and John appears. She points at their faces, "These 2, sir. We've already identified the male, sir. We'll need time, however, to locate the female."
The Commander's face contorts into a look of rage and disgust, "God strike these filthy terrorists down! Especially that Suarez dog. Who else?"
Lt. Raz swipes again and a picture of Abdullah appears, "He looks...young, sir."
"Pfft. He could very well be 100s of years old, Liora! Who else?!"
The Lieutenant faintly sighs and swipes again. Svetlana's picture appears and the Commander's eyes widen just a little. His face tics and he snatches the tablet from his Lieutenant.
The Commander grunts, "Her...? I--I've..."
"Sir?"
"Those eyes of hers. That face...I've seen that--" he lets out a gasp and catches himself from divulging anymore.
Lt. Raz looks at him suspiciously, "You've seen this woman before, sir? Where? Do you...know her name, where she's from--"
Commander Obed holds up his finger and says, "Dismissed, Lieutenant Raz. Make sure that the LVNDR system is tracking all of these terrorists. Divert energy from other tasks if you must."
Lt. Liora shrugs and curtly nods, "Sir." She briskly walks off.
Commander Gallant goes to his office, tablet in hand. He's still fixated on Svetlana's picture. He looks at it in a keen, almost obsessive way.
His office is spacious, well-lit, and has a few framed pictures of himself, his family, buddies, and his military career. He slumps in his chair and stares at the tablet.
He creepily strokes the tablet's screen and growls a little, "That pretty face...I know that pretty face." There's a hint of lecherousness in his tone of voice.
Meanwhile, at Seth's 1st Haven...
The High Priest of this Domain is seated in his living room, head thrown back. Gallagher is seated opposite him, laughing his head off. He throws the hand-written note on the coffee table and grunts.
Seth sniffs, "So, there you have it, Ewan."
Gallagher remarks, "Your Herd's too damn clingy, man. No wonder you wanted to spend time AWAY from 'em!"
"Hmm, indeed. So, how are things, Gallagher? All good?"
"Why wouldn't they be?"
Seth sucks some air through his teeth, "I've been wondering..."
Gallagher sighs, a look of annoyance forming on his face, "Oh, no, not that Soviet chick again. Yeah, yeah, I get it, you're uh...infatuated with her or whatever, but don't go off and start askin' me stupid questions. Again, ugh."
The High Priest rolls his eyes and says, "You know, you really should lighten up a little, Ewan. Tell me more about her."
"Uh-huh. Right. Listen, man, you got some...hmm, never mind. What's there to say about that bitch? I've told you everything I know. In my eyes, Svetlana will always be an unauthorized Embrace."
"Hmm. Yes, that Gangrel really held you back, huh?"
Gallagher growls and scowls, "Don't get me started on THAT broad, OK?! That Soviet chick was the fucking reason I stepped down as Sheriff! Agrh, fuck it. You already know the rest."
"Yes, yes, I do. Either way, Prince Angela was weak. She had to be...moved out of the way."
Gallagher lifts an imaginary glass into the air and grins, "Hear, hear! And I gotta hand it to ya- using those crazy Hunters to do the dirty work was just the icing on the fuck-you cake to those goddamn Ferals. Heh."
Seth plainly nods, "Yes, well, it had to be done. I had my reasons for doing so. Anyways, back on topic. Tell me...more about Miss Bobrov."
Gallagher sharply exhales, "You're not gonna let go of this, huh? I mean, c'mon, you're a handsome guy and there's shitloads of Soviet chicks for you to bang."
"Soviet? Seriously? Gallagher, the Cold War is over. We won, heh."
"Yeah, yeah, I know. Why her, anyway? I'm serious, WHY her??"
Seth has a slight twinkle in his serpentine eyes when he answers, "Because I find her...fascinating. From the moment she first came to this city with her fellow Assamites, seeking refuge, I couldn't help but take a...special interest in her. You know what I mean, yes?"
Gallagher scoffs, "Special interest? Uh-huh, yeah. Suuuure."
"Hmm, you don't believe me? Why?"
Gallagher snickers and leans back on his seat, "OK, OK. Fine. If you're so keen to get under her dress, then why the fuck don't you chin up and ask her out on, like I dunno, a date?"
Seth faintly chuckles, "I did, actually. She still hasn't, err, taken me up on it, though. I don't wanna push it."
"Hah! YOU not wanting to push it?! Still, after what happened with your last--"
Seth holds up a finger and glowers at his fellow Typhonist, "Don't, don't even say that name." He looks bitter and annoyed at the mere mention of that particular person, whoever they may be.
Gallagher looks at his fellow Setite with some sympathy, "Yeah, being tricked like that must suck."
He cracks his knuckles and snarls, "I know what'd happen if someone tried something like THAT with me."
"Yes, I know you all too well, Ewan. Even better than you know yourself."
"Whatever. Just ask her out again, then. The worst that bitch can say is 'no'. Even then, there's plenty of ass in the pond for an angler like you."
"Hmm, they're busy now. Busy doing our dirty work."
Gallagher leans forward and clasps his hands together. He stares into Seth's amber eyes and pointedly asks, "You trust these fuckin' Assamites to do what needs to be done?"
Seth lifts his chin and answers, "What other choices do we have? The Second Inquisition is...in my way; the Blade of Haqim is, if anything, an opportunity, a tool, if you will."
"A blunt one or a sharp one?"
"Does it make a difference?"
The former Sheriff of Dubai clicks his tongue, "What do we do AFTER the dust settles? You might like taking things in stride and being all mysterious and shit, but I gotta know which side my bread's being buttered on, you feel me, Seth?"
"Hmm, do elaborate on what you mean by that, old friend..."
Gallagher rubs the back of his neck, "I wanna know what comes next, man. OK, the SI is gone, good, hooray, we all hold cold hands and sing Kumb-a-fucking-ya. Pfft, like that's ever gonna happen."
Seth's face tics, "Get to the point, Gallagher."
"I was a Sheriff. In some ways, I still am. I know a power vacuum when I see one. I can smell opportunists a mile away, and they're gonna be coming for a hell lot more than the spoils."
Seth gently smiles and holds out his hand, palm facing outwards, "Relax, Ewan. Just relax. Right now, the squeaky wheel gets the grease- the SI has gotta go. You let me worry about the aftermath."
Gallagher grins and bites his lip, "So, you DO have some kind of GRAND GRAND plan, huh? Well, I hope uh..." there's an expectant look on his hardened face.
Seth cuts him off, "Yes, Gallagher. You are very much a part of it. Remember what I promised you. As Typhon is my witness, it shall come to pass in due time. Until then, we just sit back and let the others get messy for us."
"Hmm, OK. Still, killing a few SI is something I can fuck with."
He pauses and regards Seth for a moment, "Hmm, wow, I can see it all over your face, man. And, from where I'm sitting, it's a WHOLE LOT more than a crush you got on that Russian chick, huh?"
Seth shrugs, "What can I say, hmm? She's beautiful, hopelessly lost...like a cute puppy, I suppose. She has this fire and fury inside her and yet she's so damn...fragile. That's why I'm drawn to her, Gallagher. I wanna...peel back the shroud over her and--and understand her."
"Uh-huh. OK, sure. Whatever helps you dream when the sun's up, pal."
Seth smirks and says, "Is there anything more you can tell me about her? Anything at all?"
Gallagher shrugs, "Eh, Prince Angela took great interest in her following the first few nights after her unauthorized Embrace." He really emphasizes the word "unauthorized" in his tone of voice.
He goes on, "She was so fucking scared shitless, you know? Prince Angela was soft; she took time out of her personal schedule to give that Russki doll the entire lowdown on the Kindred scene back in Dubai. Hmph, fuckin' waste of time, if ya ask me."
"Hmm. I know what you mean, Ewan. Princes are supposed to...show strength and resolve."
"Tell me about it. That fucking Feral. Goddamn, I still can't believe she's finally fucking gone, man. Good riddance, too."
Seth equably replies, "It HAD to be done, Ewan. You knew her better than most."
Gallagher smirks and rubs his hands together, "You planning on doing something similar to that crazy German in Abu Dhabi?"
"No."
"Oh, OK. Fair enough. As for your girlfriend, well, let's just say that her Sire, that half-Mexican fucko, keeps her pretty close to him."
"Are they...?"
Gallagher shakes his head, "Not that I know of, but anything's possible. Nah, their relationship was always um...professional. Goddamn, I--"
He pauses for a moment and gulps. He wistfully says, "I kinda wish I got along with my Sire the way Svetlana gets along with hers. Fuck! Too bad it had to--had to end like that."
Gallagher's hands begin to tremble a little.
Seth leans forward and tells his friend, "Easy, easy. It's in the past now. What happened, happened. As unfortunate as it was, you have to move on from it. Remember: what doesn't destroy us only serves to make us stronger."
Gallagher weakly nods, "Hmm, it's hard, man. So, yeah, like I was saying...John's holding her back, y'know? I mean, I can't exactly blame the son of a bitch. It's only been, what, 5 years since her unlawful Embrace. She's barely a Neonate, and I've always been a stickler for the Traditions."
Seth nods, "Hmm, yes. The 4th Tradition: The Accounting. Those thou create are thine own children. Until thy Progeny shall be Released, thou shall command them in all things. Their sins are thine to endure."
Gallagher takes a sharp breath, "Ah, you have 'em memorized down to the tee, huh? I like that."
Seth then asks, "So, you believe John's holding her back from her...what?"
Ewan shrugs indifferently, "Her destiny, her true potential, whatever. Look, that's for you to figure out, alright? I still wish that fucking Gangrel would've let me take off BOTH their heads that night. Would've made things a lot simpler."
Seth doesn't reply to that. Instead, he cracks a tiny smile.
Gallagher looks down and sighs deeply, "Shit. Still, if I had stayed on...no. Never mind. Yeah, I'm gonna uh, yeah. Later, Seth."
Seth gets up and shakes Gallagher's hand, "It was a nice chat, Gallagher. Thank you for all that you've done for me so far. The compound has been quiet thanks to...our efforts."
Gallagher presses his lips into a thin smile, "Yeah, I'm just grateful for the opportunity to be of use, y'know. I feel like this is what I--I was always meant to do- busting skulls, breaking bones, and upholding the Masquerade no matter what."
Seth places his cold hand on Gallagher's tensed shoulder, "Oh, believe me, Ewan. When the dust finally settles, WE will be very busy. You know that you can always come to me with any questions you may have, right?"
"Mm-hmm."
"Especially questions of a...spiritual nature. I'm always here to help you navigate through your troubles. And don't forget to keep practicing those mindfulness techniques I told you about, OK?"
Gallagher quickly nods and takes his leave from the High Priest's Haven, "I'll keep that in mind. And um...you can always rely on me, good ol' Ewan, to have your back out there. I owe you a lot more than 1, heh."
Seth smiles and sees his fellow Serpent off, "Of course I can. You've proven yourself thus far, haven't you? We'll talk soon."
After the ex-Sheriff drives off, Edwin, Seth's Ghoul, approaches.
His head is bowed low, and he looks a bit sleep deprived. He clears his throat and asks, "All good, sir?"
Seth narrows his eyes a little, "Of course, why wouldn't it be? Why, has something happened in the compound? Oh, god, please don't tell me something's up? Frankly, I am quite tired of dealing with people's problems or whatever other 'issues' they're having this week."
The disdain for his own cultists is quite evident in his tone.
Edwin shakes his head, "It is nothing, sir. Everything at the compound is--is quiet as a mouse, sir."
Seth's eyebrows shoot up, "Hmm, music to my ears, Edwin. If you need me, or if something important arises, then I'll be meditating. Otherwise, don't disturb me. Got it?"
Edwin bows his head, "As you wish, sir. May...Typhon continue to watch over and bless you, sir." He tries his best to hide his uneasiness in the presence of his master.
Seth faintly chuckles, "Yes, the same to you, Edwin. The same to you."
With that, the High Priest slowly walks off to his darkened meditation room. He sits in the middle of the room, crosses his legs, straightens his back, raises his chin, and shuts his eyes.
He forces some air in and out of his dead lungs and begins meditating. The sounds of the outside world going about its business become a dull hum in the background.
The High Priest of Al-Kushraf city has much to ponder...and to scheme.
Chapter 16: So Yeah, Primal Terror
WARNING: Mentions and slight depictions of rape and sexual assault. Reader discretion strongly advised.
In time, the sun gradually rises over the city of Al-Kushraf. The sky becomes a saturated mixture of yellow and orange. A warm and somewhat pleasant breeze wafts through the streets of this vast city, and the mortals wake up and go about their day.
Some commute via the trains, buses, and cars; some walk or cycle to their places of work and/or study. All the while, the many towering skyscrapers stand like giants looming over the masses below.
Yet, all of them remain none the wiser about the massive fight that occurred. Maybe it's better that way, maybe it's better that mortals don't get involved.
At all.
That would...complicate things in more ways than 1, and Israeli soldiers, being the psychos that they are, are not exactly shy about leaving piles and piles of corpses in their wake.
Speaking of psychos...
Yishai, the Unit 8211 interrogator awakens Aaron Hart by tossing a cold bucket of water right into his face. Aaron is tied to a chair, chained for good measure, and his eyes widen in surprise and fear.
Aaron is wearing nothing but his boxers and his body is covered in numerous scars and bruises. His wrists are sore, and his mouth is very dry. He shudders in fear when he looks at the Israeli thug and swallows the lump forming in his throat.
Yishai is in his indeterminate 40s. He has a salt and pepper beard, a long and round face. He's of medium build and is quite tall. He's wearing a dark blue tank top, cargo pants, and black boots.
He adjusts his blue yarmulke atop his head and gives Aaron a tight backhand slap that makes him see stars. He grunts, "Good morning. Time for a little chat, hmm?"
He grabs Aaron's cheeks and forces the terrified mortal to look into his eyes, "Tell me, do you have anything to say?!"
Aaron's voice quivers when he answers, "I--I don't know anything. My--my name is Aaron Hart. I am an American citizen and a human rights lawyer. I am NOT a--a blank body sympathizer. I--"
Yishai cuts him off by punching him hard in the abdomen. He then grabs Aaron's head and violently yanks it back.
The interrogator laughs and pulls his head back some more, "I am tired of regurgitated and rehearsed answers! What do you know about the blank body by the name of John Suarez?!"
Aaron doesn't answer.
Yishai snarls and yells into Aaron's ear, "I SAID...WHAT DO YOU KNOW ABOUT THE BLANK BODY BY THE NAME OF JOHN SUAREZ?!"
With tears rolling down his cheeks, Aaron stammers, "I--I--I have never heard that name be--before. I don't know any--anyone by that name! Please, you--you--"
Yishai releases his grip from the back of Aaron's head and walks over to a metal table full of torture implements- pliers, tweezers, scalpels, etc.
Yishai's hands tremble a little when he picks up a pair of needle-nose pliers. He turns around and approaches his terrified prisoner, "This will not hurt...much. You will have no reason to scream. Just be still and answer my questions, OK? You would not like to upset me, would you? Huh?"
Aaron shakily gasps, "Get--get that away from me!"
Yishai taunts the poor guy by waving that tool around, close to his face, "Many of my close friends were killed last night...by the very same animals that you have chosen to sympathize with, Mr. Hart."
Aaron's head is violently spinning, and he can taste his own blood on the tip of his tongue, "I...I know nothing about any--any of that. My--my name is Aaron Hart, human rights lawyer. I have rights, I know them--"
Another vicious backhand cuts Aaron off. Yishai spits on the ground and punches Aaron's face. Hard.
He grabs Aaron's face, digs his fingers into the skin, and says, "Your rights...they do not exist here, not when I am asking the questions! So, tell me, who are you really?!"
Yishai presses the tip of his pliers against Aaron's sweaty neck.
The lawyer gulps and begins trembling, "I--I'm Aaron Hart, an American citi--"
Yishai throws the pliers away and wraps his hands around Aaron's neck. He screams like the madman he is and squeezes the life out of the poor guy who has nothing to do with any of this.
Aaron's eyes bug out, and his entire face turns red. He can't breathe, and he can't scream either. All he can do is silently suffer and watch as the Israeli goon tightens his grip on his throat.
Aaron's entire body quivers and a wet spot appears in his boxers. His vision darkens and the sounds of Yishai's yelling fade away.
Short of nearly killing Mr. Hart, Yishai's barbaric methods produce absolutely no results. He lets go of Aaron's neck and scoffs, "Tch. I expected more out of you. Pity."
After a few moments, Yishai picks up a bottle of orange juice and empties its contents all over Aaron's head. Aaron weakly sputters, coughs, and gasps for air. His eyes are bloodshot, and he's shaking uncontrollably.
Yishai sighs and looks at his watch. He callously says, "There, breakfast is done. Now, where were we, hmm?"
Aaron musters up a tiny bit of energy and rocks on his chair, screaming, "YOU CAN'T DO THIS TO ME! My name is Aaron Hart. I--I am a human rights lawyer from the United States of America! YOU HAVE NO RIGHT TO DO THIS TO ME!"
Yishai looks at his pliers and grins, "You have no rights over here, only answers."
He shakes his head and marches towards the bound-up mortal.
He cups Aaron's face with his grimy hands and looks directly into his fear-ridden eyes, "Answers which I will get out of you- 1 way or the other. My friends, good men and women, were killed by YOUR friends last night."
"I--I don't--"
"Tell me what I wish to hear, and I promise to make it quick, yes? You up against the wall and a bullet in the head- it'll be over in seconds. Fail to talk and I will make you regret every single decision that you have ever made in your pathetic excuse of a life, Mr. Hart...or whatever your name REALLY is."
Aaron gulps and his eyes are wide as can be. He feels sick, his body is at its breaking point, he has been deprived of sleep for DOZENS upon DOZENS of hours- whether through loud kid's music blaring through the speakers, repeated beatings, or being forced to stand against a cold wall for hours on end.
Aaron doesn't know how long it's been since he was taken- his sense of time has been so warped down in this damp, nondescript concrete structure a few meters below ground.
He's so lost and confused and afraid and exhausted and his whole body is sore and aching all over.
The Israeli lunatic leans in and whispers into Aaron's ear, "Where are your friends? Who are they? How long have they been in the UAE? Were they at the Marjan Tower? Is that why you're here?"
Aaron pants. His head goes round and round like a merry-go-round. He blinks a few times, "Article 5 of The Universal Declaration of Human Rights states that--that 'no one shall be subjected to torture or to cruel, inhuman, or degrading treatment or punishment.'"
Yishai hisses, "Fuck the UN, fuck the ECHR, fuck the UDHR, the Geneva Convention, fuck all of them! As Israelis, we've had ENOUGH of these pompous animals telling us what to do!"
He angrily picks up a shock stick, jams it against Aaron's chest, and lets loose. He grits his teeth, and his expression hardens as Aaron's body violently convulses, and his boxers are thoroughly soaked.
After a solid minute, he turns off the shock stick and grunts, "That's just a tiny, TINY taste of what I have in store for you, you fucking blank body-lover!"
Aaron's sweating buckets, his chest feels like it's on fire, his eyes are bloodshot, and he barely has the energy to cry, let alone let out a whimper or a moan.
Yishai sneers, "What is your connection to John Suarez?! Hm? What is it? Who were the others with him?!"
Aaron shivers.
"WHO WERE THEY?! WHAT ARE THEIR NAMES?! WHERE DID THEY GO?! WHERE ARE YOUR OTHER BLANK BODY FRIENDS HIDING?! ARE THEY IN THIS CITY! FUCKING ANSWER ME!"
Aaron chokes on his words and tries to speak. He gasps for air, "M--my name--name is--Aaron--Hart. I'm an American--I'm an American citi--"
Yishai throws the shock stick to the ground and storms off. He slams his fists against the door and yells, "HE'S NOT SAYING ANYTHING! FUCK!"
Damn, somebody better rescue poor Aaron...and soon. He can't hold out forever- no one can. What happens after can be figured out on the way. One can hope that the Blade is fast enough to get him away from these fucking maniacs.
Anyways, the sun begins its ever so slow descent towards the horizon, and the mortals of this sprawling city resume their evening activities and pursuits. Most of them go home or head to wherever it is they choose to spend their evenings.
Once that fiery ball has made its retreat, the Kindred in this Domain awaken from their day-long slumber.
Svetlana is awakened by the sounds of little Chloe giggling, followed by a squeaky voice that says, "Setlana! Setlana!"
The Wraith child's small (and flickering) form is sitting on the edge of Svetlana's bed and waving at her.
Svetlana forces a faint smile and weakly returns the gesture. She then groans as she struggles out of her bed.
The spectral girl jumps up and follows her Fetter.
Svetlana crosses her arms and looks down at the poor child, all wide-eyed, innocent, and (blissfully) clueless about her current state of Undeath. She wants to say something to the shimmering child, but the words fail to leave her mouth.
Chloe tilts her head, "What's wrong, Setlana??" her voice is somewhat ethereal. It's soft, but clear, like a child's. Yet, the echo makes her sound otherworldly. She also sounds very...distant yet nearby at the same time.
Svetlana sighs deeply and crouches down to face the Wraith child, "I must take bath now. You go and wait for me, da?"
The Wraith kid earnestly nods her head and zooms off. She giggles, and her hazy form disappears through a solid wall. Svetlana looks at this and lets out another sigh.
From there, she proceeds to take a nice, warm bath. No matter where the Fetter goes, the Wraith will be close by, too. Did little Chloe witness the violence that her Fetter committed last night?
One can hope that she at least shut her eyes when Svetlana was stabbing the shit out of those Unit 8211 agents.
John wakes up and checks his phone. He sees a message from his boss, Master-P, which reads: "Good evening, Mr. Suarez. I have a few clients that I would like 4 u to train tonite. How about it? Big $$$"
The Assamite clicks his tongue and winces. He texts back: "Sorry, Praveen. Not tonite. I got something else that requires my immediate attention."
Within a minute, John's phone buzzes with a reply: "Ayoyo, what is this, habibi? You cannot do like this, John. I have a bloody business to run, man."
John's fingers dance across the virtual keyboard: "Look, I'm really sorry, alright? I wish there were another way, but there isn't, OK?"
"What is this urgent thing u are attending 2 anyway????"
"It's personal."
"Very well. But, if u keep doing like this, then i will have no other choice but to let u go, John habibi. U r a talented Kenpo instructor, so pls finish whatever u have to do and don't waste our time like this, yes?"
John sniffs and rubs his eyes a few times: "Sure, sure. Thanks, Praveen. And take care."
Praveen simply replies with a thumbs-up emoji. John puts his phone aside and does a few sit-ups before heading for the shower. There's a long night ahead for these bloodsuckers!
After he's done bathing, John texts his Childe: "I'll come over and pick u up."
Svetlana is wiping her hair with a towel. She had decided to wash it tonight, so her blonde hair is somewhat shinier than usual, it also smells like roses. She puts the towel aside and types a simple response: "Da. OK."
Svetlana takes her sweet time getting dressed. She opts for something practical- jeans and a simple blouse with faded geometric patterns on it. Her shoes are black ankle-boots. She still has a little bit of mascara and some eyeliner left, so she applies that.
She packs her 2 daggers into her bag, and some cash as well. Then, she walks out into the living room and sits down on her couch, staring blankly into nothing.
Little Chloe's ethereal giggles interrupt the Assamite's silent moment of contemplation. Svetlana exhales sharply and looks in the direction of the noise. Her mouth is set in a grim line, and her green eyes are filled with...sadness and anxiety.
The spectral child zooms around and stops right in front of Svetlana. Her head is tilted, and there's a small smile on her face, "Can we play Barbie, Setlana?"
Svetlana sighs and her shoulders slump a little. She flatly says, "Not tonight, malen'kiy (RU: little one)."
The child pouts and begins to flicker.
After some very long and tense silence, there's a knock at the door. Svetlana gets up, opens the door, and sees her Sire standing outside. He looks fresh, and he's wearing jeans, sneakers, and a black hoodie. His hands are stuffed inside the pockets of his jacket.
She moves aside and lets him in. He takes a look around the place and nods approvingly, "Heh, you keep it clean. Yeah, haha, nice, nice. Love what you've done with the place."
He sits on the sofa and joins his cold hands together, "Um...taxi's waiting outside, but I wanted to talk to you before we head out."
Svetlana sits next to her Sire and looks at him, "Da. Talk about what?"
John's gaze is downcast and he looks a little uneasy, "It's about Abdullah. I'm worried for him."
She remains silent and prompts him to go on.
He does so, "You know he was only 19 when he got Embraced, right?"
"Da. What is worrying you, John?"
John looks into his Childe's eyes and directly asks, "That Irish Tremere you're friends with. Saoirse, right? You think she can help us out in our...err...fight against these SI bastards?"
Svetlana shakes her head and answers, "Nyet. She is busy with work."
John clicks his tongue and winces slightly, "Dammit. S--Sorry. It's just that we could use another Blood Sorcerer. I don't wanna...stretch Abdullah too thin when we're out there fighting. You saw what he did last night, right?"
"Da. It was...impressive, no?"
John points out, "It sure was, heh. But, it takes a lotta skill...and a lot more Blood to do stuff like that. That's why...well, never mind." He lets out a tired sigh and hangs his head. He runs his hands over his face and exhales slowly.
His head feels like it's spinning and there's an ache deep in his chest. It's been there since last night's battle against the SI menace. While most of the outward wounds have mended themselves over these last few hours, the inner wounds still ache like hell.
He takes a few more breaths and says, "Just promise me 1 thing."
"For you, anything."
John gulps, "Let's promise to watch each others' backs out there, OK? Abdullah and Zeina managed to convince the others to meet us at some old warehouse. After we fled Dubai, we uh...didn't really get much of a chance to catch up."
He smiles weakly and adds, "A lot of them are asking about you."
Svetlana gingerly puts her hand on her Sire's back and nods, "Da. I am looking forward to seeing them after...so long."
John comments, "Even though it's only been a few weeks since...all of that, it still feels like it was forever ago."
"Da," the Assamite Neonate looks to the side, almost wistfully.
John asks, again, "Are you sure Saoirse won't be able to help us?"
Svetlana silently shakes her head.
John then gets up from the sofa and heads to the front door. He turns around before leaving, "I'll uh...wait downstairs. I already fed, by the way. You might wanna grab someone from around here. Traffic's heavy and we've got a long way--"
Just then, a power cut hits and everything is shrouded in total darkness. Svetlana's face is bathed in a bluish light that comes from a nearby emergency lamp that's plugged in.
There's a faint moan in the apartment block that cuts off a few moments later.
John remarks, "Damn, here too, huh? Same problem back in my Haven. Hmm. I'll see you when you're ready. Don't take too long." He pulls out his phone and uses the flashlight app to see better. Then, he closes the door and walks out into the corridor.
After the power comes back, he heads downstairs, leans against the wall, and waits.
Svetlana sees little Chloe's Wraith reappear. She's shimmering and phasing in and out.
She innocently asks, "Are we going somewhere?"
Svetlana nods, "Da. I will be gone for some time. I do not know how long."
The Wraith protests and whooshes about, "Noooo, Setlana! No go! Stay with me and help find me Barbie!"
Svetlana tries her best to fight back the torrent of sanguine tears forming in her eyes, "I...cannot. Not now, please. I--I must go."
The Assamite sincerely hopes that the Wraith kid doesn't appear at the most inopportune moment, like when she's in the middle of a fight or something.
That would be most unfortunate and very distracting. And given how last night's fight went, even a moment's distraction could prove to be quite catastrophic.
(Especially with incendiary weapons now in play).
Svetlana grabs her bag, her 2 daggers, and locks her front door. The last thing she sees is little Chloe's ghostly form just standing there, all sad and confused. It hurts the Assamite a lot, but what other choice does she have?
Bring-your-Wraith-child-to-work-night is not a thing. Especially when the current "work" does involve copious amounts of violence and bloodshed.
(Violence against the very individuals most responsible for the deaths of little Chloe and the rest of those poor souls at the AJRT).
Svetlana takes the service staircase. The walls are quite grimy and the white fluorescent lights incessantly flicker. The floor is covered with old stains and smells of...something. There's a fire extinguisher near the door at the bottom of the staircase, to which the Assamite pays no heed.
She spots a lithe woman lolling about the place. She's dressed in plain casual wear, has a few piercings on her ears and a stud on her lower lip. She has an aura of disillusionment about her.
Svetlana's inner Beast compels her to lunge forward and take blood from that woman. Given the events of last night, Svetlana is gonna need a little more than usual if she's gonna keep using her Obfuscate Discipline.
Still, she has no intent of killing whoever this chick is. It's quite the balancing act for Kindred who find themselves in such circumstances, no doubt.
So, Svetlana sticks to the shadows and creeps forward. When the woman turns around, the Banu Haqim lunges forward and chomps down on that poor mortal's neck.
Svetlana's fangs dig deep and the woman cries out, but the Assamite silences her with a firm hand clasped over the mouth. She drinks the mortal's blood, but only takes what she needs- not a single drop more.
When the Beast within is satisfied, Svetlana licks the wound, making sure it's sealed shut. She gently places the unconscious woman against a wall and rushes out.
John is in the taxi, simply staring out the window. He sees the city's bright, dazzling lights, its towering skyscrapers, the vehicles whizzing about, and the many, many people going about their business.
They all remain oblivious to the skirmish brewing just beneath the surface. A struggle that will shake the very foundations of this sprawling metropolis.
Svetlana hops into a cab with her Sire. The ride is somewhat quiet, save for the music the driver has put on. It's some funky Arabic pop song that John can't help but bop his head to.
His Childe, on the other hand, watches the city go by in a blur. The warm breeze sweeps her hair and her mind races with a million thoughts.
She looks over at her Sire and thinks to herself, "Why does he seem so...troubled?" she can sense something's wrong. There's a certain vibe about him that's...kinda off.
Oddly enough, despite not looking at his Childe, John's wondering the same thing, "She seems...distant. More so than usual. Is everything alright with her? Is she doing OK? Goddamn, I should really sit down and talk to her sometime, but when?"
An hour later...
That taxi ride was a lot longer (and pricier!) than expected. Svetlana pays a part of the fare and John thanks her for doing so. After walking a few meters, the 2 Assamites find themselves staring at a long-disused warehouse building.
There's a few empty cars parked nearby. A few bright lights can be spotted in some of the nearby midrise buildings that pepper this part of the city.
The ground below their feet is hard and rough. Svetlana looks around and clutches her bag tightly. John slings his guitar case over his shoulder and nods his head towards the warehouse's entrance.
"Well, no time like the present. C'mon, Svetlana. Let's go."
"Da. Let's."
The 2 of them stride to a side entrance and push the rusty door open. John looks at his Childe and whispers, "You ready?"
She nods her head and looks into her Sire's eyes, "Da. I am. You?"
John smirks, "Always."
Inside, there's about 4 dozen (or so) Blade of Haqim members milling about the place. They're all talking to each other in very hush-hush tones, and they look like a bunch of people who truly do blend in with the crowd.
A few of them approach Svetlana and give her a big hug. A few others simply smile and nod their heads in her direction. Some of them are a bit cold and indifferent.
It's not like they have a grudge or something against the Neonate, it's just that they don't really know her all that well.
They're all quite ordinarily dressed, working-class vampires that are now in the midst of a strange city for the past few weeks. Sadly, many of them are yet to find dignified employment in this place.
That kind of anguish and lingering uncertainty is reflected on their ashy, hollow-cheeked faces. Some openly brandish their various weapons (of the melee variety only).
They're called the "Blade of Haqim", not the "AR-15 of Haqim"! It's generally considered dishonorable to slay a foe (Kindred or otherwise) with firearms- blades are the way to go for this lot, for better or for worse.
John greets a few of them with tight handshakes and speaks to a few others. Abdullah and Zeina are in separate corners, each mingling with their fellow Assassins and what have you.
Abdullah wildly gesticulates and speaks to some people in Arabic; he's likely talking about last night's battle. Zeina nods along, dryly, at something some older-looking man with a beard is telling her.
Well, this is the Blade of Haqim in Al-Kushraf, UAE. Or whatever remains of them after the events of the past few weeks. There's a lot more than them, but many fled to Turkey after the raid on Dubai.
There's many reasons why they fled, but vamps gotta eat, too. They've got roofs that absolutely need to be over their heads during the day. And given the lack of stable employment in this city, it's not too hard to see why many sought to go to Turkey.
(A few even went back to their home countries as well).
Zeina and Abdullah catch sight of John and Svetlana and make their way over to them. Abdullah looks quite pleased to see his fellow Assamite, and he hugs her.
He greets her, "As-salamu alaykum."
Svetlana smiles and greets him back, "Wa alaykumu s-salam. How are you keeping, Abdullah?"
Abdullah shrugs, "Still a little sore from last night's fight, but I am ready for anything." His tone does demonstrate more confidence than usual.
John pats him on the shoulder, "Don't worry, we've got your back out there. Right, Zeina?"
Zeina nods, "Yes, of course we do. We've been waiting for quite a long time. Are you sure this Nosferatu will show up??"
John plainly answers, "Yeah, he'll show up. He has to."
As if on cue, that same side entrance door groans open and in walks the Nossie Primogen, Tommy. Garth is following him closely.
Both of them stop in their tracks and their sickly eyes widen at the sheer number of Assamites packed into this structure.
Garth remarks, "Cor blimey!"
Tommy exclaims, "Aye, got a whole party in this gaffe, eh?"
Both of these Crawlers are wearing face coverings (for obvious reasons). Both of them are dressed in rather tattered suits that have clearly seen better times.
John approaches Tommy and puts his hands on his hips, "Well, about damn time! What took you 2 so long?"
Tommy holds out his deformed hand and calms the jumpy Assamite down, "Aye, nae bother, pal. Nae bother. Calm doon. Simmer doon."
Garth sighs and explains, "Power outages all over the city. The grid's practically at its limit and it's having an adverse effect on our...SchreckNet infrastructure down in the sewers. Bandwidth's been stretched lately and we had to shut off some some things."
Tommy grunts, "Aye, it's fockin' mental doon there, so nae be giving us none yer pish, awright?" he sounds gruffer...than usual.
Garth quickly intervenes, "What he means to say is...don't add to our existing problems. As it is, we're risking quite a lot. Helping you lot is not going to be as easy as we would've imagined, what with all the recent...setbacks in our delicate systems."
John gets a little annoyed and this reflects in his tone, "So, DO you have anything for us, then?"
Tommy blanks out and mutters, "You have nae a scooby of how bad it is."
Garth sharply exhales and takes his fellow Nossie to a corner and sternly whispers something to him.
After that, he returns and says, "He's...clearly in a sour mood. Apologies."
Tommy growls.
Garth glares at his friend and implores, "Thomas, please."
The Nossie Primogen holds his hands up and says, "Awright, awright. Fine. Pfft."
John presses his lips into a thin line and asks, "What happened, anyway?"
Tommy growls and shakes his head, "We lost a few of our own to a fire. Had to put it out, but we were too late. There's some damage here and there."
Garth pensively lowers his head and clasps his hands together in front of him.
The Nosferatu Primogen goes on, "Aye, since the leccy's been all over the gaffe, it's been no easy keeping our servers and computer infrastructure down in the sewers safe."
Svetlana gasps and asks, "What about the information we gave you from SD cards?"
Tommy sighs and pulls out another chunky PDA with numerous map markings on it. He hands it to John, "Aye, aye. There's that. Garth did all the heavy lifting there, the clever bastard he is."
Garth's face is still lowered, "I tried my best, friends. There's...a lot of data that we still need to sift through. It's also not all perfect, given recent circumstances."
John flicks through the PDA and finds red splotches of what appear to be more SI patrol routes. He perches an eyebrow and inquires, "More patrol routes? Is that it?"
Tommy shakes his head and produces a printout of words.
Abdullah takes it, looks it over, and his face scrunches in confusion, "What is this, habibi?"
Tommy gestures for Garth to explain, which he does, "It's a list of keywords that the SI are currently scanning for. I told you about it last night. It's a rotating list. I believe this should still be valid for a...few more hours, at best."
Zeina steps forward and raises her chin, "What do you expect us to do with...this?"
Tommy is about to raise his voice, but Garth (once again) interjects and answers, "What you do best, of course. With that list and the patrol routes, you have an opportunity to...err...shuffle the board around a bit."
John shrugs, "Hmm, not what I was expecting, but sure." He looks over his shoulder and can feel the eagerness of his fellow Assamites. They're ready to fight.
Ready to Judge.
Svetlana comments, "Is risky, no?"
John answers his Childe, "Garth's right, Svetlana. With this, we could shuffle the board around. Split up in small teams and whittle the SI down."
Abdullah folds his arms, "How 'small' should our 'teams' be? Personally, I think it is wiser if we worked together and overwhelmed these accursed Zionists with our might and power."
Zeina signals her agreement with a low grunt, but doesn't say anything else. She trusts John's judgment and will follow his lead, no questions asked. He's been solid so far.
So far.
John glances at his Childe and gently smiles, "What do you think, Svetlana? Should we split up? Remember, we could cover more ground that way. Going together would only attract attention to us, and we don't need that right now."
Svetlana mulls it all over in her head. There's clear advantages and disadvantages to both proposed ideas; splitting up would mean less numbers, but it'd allow for more efficient hit-and-run moves.
Moreover, overwhelming the Unit 8211 threat could backfire.
Svetlana nods and responds, "Is better for us to split up. Small teams. Maybe 10 or 12 each?"
Abdullah plainly gestures, "Hmm, yes. 10 or 12 would be ideal. Last night, the 4 of us barely got by." He looks aside, shakes his head, and recalls the carnage of the night before- the gunfire, the actual fire, the screams, and blood.
So much blood.
John puts his hand on Abdullah's shoulder and gives it a gentle squeeze, "Hey, hey, it's gonna be alright? OK? We've got your back out there, don't worry."
Abdullah weakly smiles and thanks John for the reassurance.
Svetlana looks at the PDA in her Sire's hands and has this really bad feeling that something is about to go very wrong tonight. Very, very wrong.
But she pushes that feeling aside. She must be strong, not only for herself but also for her Clan and her Sire.
John looks at Tommy with some expectation plastered on his face, "Uh...any suggestions?"
Tommy shrugs, "You lot seem tae know what you're doing..." Judging by his tone, his mind is clearly elsewhere. Losing people like that cannot be easy, especially for a bunch of close-knit, out of sight Nosferatu who have only each other and a few Touchstones to rely upon in times good and bad.
John blows a sharp raspberry and takes a good look around the place. A lot of Assamites are ready to fight, but are they ready for the fight of their Unlives? Only time will tell.
Svetlana suggests, "We should ask others before making choice, no?"
John nods, "Yep, you're right. C'mon, let's go."
John and his Childe approach a tall man in his 30s. He's tall, has a dark complexion and a neatly trimmed beard. He's wearing a loose thawb and is brandishing a poignard in his right hand.
The weapon is sharp and pointy and has a few scratched engravings on its handle. The man seems a little tense, but his expression softens when he sees Svetlana.
That would be Samir. He hails from Iraq and earned himself a name amongst the Iraqi Banu Haqim as a skilled fighter against US soldiers invading his homeland.
He has killed (Judged) plenty of those neo-colonial stormtroopers, as is his right (and perhaps duty) to resist such horrors under the purview of international law.
Now, he's here in the UAE in the hopes of finding work and a fresh start. Alas, that hasn't exactly been the case, but he remains devoted to the Blade.
Samir greets Svetlana with a gentle bow of the head, "As-salamu alaykum, Svetlana. It has been...far too long."
Svetlana greets him back, "Wa alaykumu s-salam, Samir. How are you keeping?"
Samir smiles at John and replies, "I am keeping well. It has been a struggle for all of us ever since we were driven from Dubai, but I hope that Al-Kushraf is the city where we will find some peace."
John smiles and greets him back, "Hey, how's it going?" he extends a hand. Samir graciously accepts and they share a firm handshake.
John asks his fellow Assamite, "So, how are the others keeping? I haven't had much of a chance to speak to any of 'em since the...y'know. It was--well, we were all taken by surprise. It's hard to think it was all just a few weeks ago."
Zeina comments, "Yes. The Inquisitors must pay for their treachery!"
Abdullah cuts in, "I do not disagree. We are eager to bring the Blade down on the necks of the Zionists." His tone is very matter of fact and straight to the point. He's ready to fight, ready to Judge.
Samir remarks, "I understand, my friend. The events of the past few weeks have not been easy for any of us. Some, however, have struggled more than others." He sounds somewhat sympathetic.
John inquires, "Oh yeah? I--I heard a lot of you were struggling to find a job? Damn, that sucks."
Samir plainly nods, "Yes, habibi. I can code in at least 4 different languages, yet I can't find a decent job. No one wants an Iraqi refugee in their ranks, it seems." His voice is tinged with bitter disappointment.
Samir's gaze lowers and John's undead heart aches a bit for him.
Samir looks at Svetlana, and his voice grows more solemn, "Svetlana, how do you fare? You are, after all, still considered the youngest and newest addition to our ranks. 5 years since your Embrace, yes? How do you find...Unlife so far?"
Svetlana forces a smile, "Is not ideal, but--"
She looks to her Sire with gratitude and adds, "--I am grateful that John and Abdullah saved me."
Samir was actually the one who taught Svetlana how to hone and utilize her Obfuscate Discipline. John initially wanted to get her to learn Celerity (like him), but she showed a natural inclination to Obfuscate, and Samir was all the gladder to share his sanguine knowledge with the then-Fledgling.
Svetlana's voice takes on a more serious note, "I...am also sad about loss of the other Kindred, especially Prince Angela. Is not good for us to suffer such losses."
A small tear of blood rolls down her eye, but she wipes it away and looks at her Sire with determination and strength, "We must find those responsible and...Judge them."
The 5 spend some time talking about recent happenings (especially in and around the MENA region), Unlife, work, and how they've been adjusting.
It's been tough on all the Assamites gathered in this joint.
After a few minutes, John walks up to the front of the warehouse and shouts, "Excuse me, everybody!" Everyone falls silent and turns their eyes and ears towards him.
Tommy and Garth stand at the front and fix their respective gazes on Mr. Suarez.
John gulps and begins, "It's been a while, huh? Yeah, it has. T--truth be told, I was expecting a whole lot more of us, but the last few weeks haven't exactly been kind to us. I--I don't blame the others for wanting to go to Turkey or wherever."
A few appreciative nods and mumbles come John's way. Some others grunt and shrug, but he continues, "Now, you're all probably wondering why we're gathered here."
He beckons to the 2 Nossies and explains, "These 2 Nosferatu have been kind enough to aid us in our...err...task."
Some chick from the back, with a heavy accent, asks, "What is our task, John?? What can you expect the Blade to do in this city?"
Without skipping a beat, John answers, "Wiping out the SI- all of them."
Gasps and shocked exclamations erupt from the gathered Assamites. Some seem quite apprehensive; others are excited and eager. Still, others are indifferent and unsure of the proposition. It's a mixed bag.
A male Assamite pipes up, "Are you mad? You want us to wage a war against them? What of the Masquerade?" his tone is incredulous, and his facial expression reflects it.
John's eyebrows shoot up momentarily and he claps his hands a few times to get the room's attention, "Hey, hey, look- I understand that you're all a bit skeptical, but...listen. Just listen."
He goes on, "We lost people in the raid on Dubai. Our Prince is gone. Many of you are struggling to find a decent job and a roof over your heads, and it's been tough, real tough. I get it, believe me I do."
He nervously laughs, "My own landlord is on my ass and demanding that I cough up the rent soon. But that's beside the point- look, we all fled here because we didn't have any other choice. That Tremere bastard in Abu Dhabi wouldn't let any of us in."
He pauses and licks his lips, "So, we turned to Al-Kushraf...and maybe, just maybe, this could be the city of our dreams."
John takes a moment to gather his thoughts. He paces around and makes eye-contact with several of his fellow Kindred.
They all look quite curious and are eagerly waiting to hear more.
John sighs and continues, "We have a real opportunity here, friends. To--to bite back. We can get the bastards who drove us out of Dubai and nearly destroyed all the Gangrel. N--Not to mention our own Primogen, Hassan."
Even though Hassan was not of the Blade, he was VERY supportive of their cause, nonetheless. He was destroyed along with many on that fateful evening.
Someone from the front raises his fist and states, "We must avenge Hassan! The Zionists MUST pay for their wickedness!!"
Everyone (bar the 2 Nosferatu) shout and yell in agreement.
They were very, VERY close with the late, great Hassan. He was a great Primogen of his Clan who did all that he could to keep the local Kindred population together and watch over them.
2 of his Childer were mercilessly slain. Those who were spared fled with the rest of the Assamites, out of pure desperation.
John's eyes grow misty with blood, and he holds his chin high. His voice grows stern, "Look- I'm not going to pretend this will be easy. As it is, the 4 of us had a hell lotta trouble fighting about a dozen or so of these bastards last night."
Some more gasps and sounds of shock permeate the room. Uncertainty is rearing its head.
After everyone has quieted down, John says, "So, you're probably wondering how these 2 fine Nosferatu gentlemen play into all this, huh?"
John leans forward and whispers to Tommy, "You uh...mind coming up here?"
Tommy accepts, but Garth declines by stating, "Stage fright. A--apologies."
Tommy greets these Banu Haqim, "Awright, people- as your wee friend here was saying- my name is Thomas and this is Garth. How's it going? We're both Nosferatu from down in the sewers, and we've been given the go-ahead to assist ye in your task or mission or whatever yous wanna call it."
The Nossie Primogen steps closer and addresses the crowd, "We are going after the SI in this Domain, but we will need help. This is not a fight we can win alone, so we must work together, aye?"
A lady in a hijab queries, "How? How can we fight against such wicked and powerful forces? There are not enough of us to go around! Perhaps we should try and contact some other groups outside the Domain? Archons, maybe?"
Garth looks over his shoulder and answers, "That is a perfectly reasonable idea, and you are absolutely correct. But--"
Tommy points out, "It's no as easy as that, hen. As much as I'd love to summon a few Archons, maybe a few wee Justicars, the truth is..." he glances at Garth, then at John.
John sighs deeply, "...the Domain's High Priest is apprehensive about getting them involved. I--I guess he has his own reasons for doing so."
Another female Assamite comments, "If that is the case, then what do you suggest we do?"
Tommy steps back while John takes over. He holds the PDA in 1 hand, the list of keywords being scanned for in the other, "With this, we could get the drop on those sons of bitches and really whittle their numbers down."
Murmurs reflecting the cluelessness of his comrades are heard. John goes on, "Here's what I propose: we split up in teams of 10 and, um...make a few phone calls- that should draw these SI bastards straight to you--"
The Assamite corrects himself, "Well, it should draw them straight into the ambush, anyway. They can't hit all of us at once if we're not all gathered together at the same place."
A tall, burly male Assamite shakes his head and disagrees, "No, habibi! We must strike with all the power and might of the Blade and cut down these wicked Zionists! TOGETHER!" he growls into the air and his fangs glisten menacingly in the dim lighting.
The Assamite next to him concurs, "He is right, John. If we work together and use all of our numbers, then surely, we will be able to overcome their technology and power."
Other Assamites see the logic in the plan being proposed by John. A lady in plain casuals says, "In teams of 10, we could make it look like there are 20 of us...or more! Walla, it is a good strategy! The Zionists will not know what hit them!"
Zeina chimes in, "I agree. Splitting apart will give us an advantage over these Zionist dogs."
Abdullah also concurs and gives his vote of confidence to John's plan.
Svetlana has a slightly conflicted expression on her face. She looks up at her Sire with an inquisitive gaze but says nothing.
John looks a bit out of his element here. An argument is brewing amongst the Assamites. Some are for the idea whilst some are against it. It's not exactly ideal, all things considered.
Tommy tries to calm the situation down, "Hold on, hold on, hold on- wan at a bloody time, aye?"
Garth remarks, "Indeed. Let's keep the peace here, shall we? We cannot afford to fight each other, especially right now. This is no time for petty squabbling."
His voice is drowned out by lively gesticulating, loud (but not necessarily hostile) banter, and general commotion.
John and his Childe look on and are not entirely sure of how to calm the room down.
Samir steps up and holds up his poignard. It glistens and reflects the light in the warehouse. He speaks loudly and clearly, "QUIET, EVERYONE!"
The room goes silent and all eyes fall on him. He clears his throat and addresses his fellow Assamites, "Now, I understand that everyone is feeling quite nervous. It is, after all, a very big mission that is being presented to us."
He adds, "And after all we have suffered through, reprieve is something many of us rightly deserve, but the scum who drove us from our Domain are here, and that will not change if we simply sit around and wait."
His voice grows louder, "We have an opportunity before us, and it is one that would enable us to AVENGE our fellow Cainites! Now, silence, my dear friends. Let John say what he must. We will decide after he has spoken, yes?"
Mutters of assent are heard. Samir takes a few steps back and rejoins the group.
John nervously smiles and says, "T--thanks, Samir. Anyway, as I was saying: the plan is pretty straightforward."
He goes over the idea in its entirety- use the info provided by the Nosferatu to split the Inquisitors up and hit 'em hard when they eventually show up at the designated locations.
After he's done, Zeina questions, "What if some of them do not respond?"
John looks at her and answers, "C'mon, Zeina. These Israeli maniacs will never give up on a chance to get at 1 of us, especially if we present ourselves as easy pickings. Besides, it's not like they've got anything else to do, right?"
Svetlana nods in agreement, "Da, I think is good idea. We must attack but be smart. Not dumb. They are not stupid, so we must be careful."
John smiles and adds, "That's why we've gotta be a little clever, and, well, this is a good place to start. Well, as good a place as any, really."
Some older-looking Assamite (likely in his 70s) asks Tommy, "Is this all you have for us, sir? Is there nothing else you Crawlers can do for us?"
Tommy replies, "Look, mate- I understand yer frustration. I--I really do. Yes, this is all we CAN do at the moment."
Garth chimes in, "We've experienced some...problems as of late, but we remain committed to helping you lot wipe the Second Inquisition from this...country."
Gasps of incredulous shock and surprise are heard from the crowd. Abdullah looks at his 4 fellow Assamites, and they share a silent moment.
Tommy goes on, "Look, we cannae go around promising miracles."
Someone from the middle asks, "Then what do you suggest? What can we do against their overwhelming might??"
John easily answers that, "What we do best- Judge them. All."
He takes on a more sympathetic expression and joins his hands together, "Look, I know that everyone gathered here tonight has, in some way or the other, been affected by the monstrous actions of the State of Israel..."
Many heads are pensively lowered. Some even begin to tear up, red blood streaming down their faces. The loss, the pain, the suffering endured weighs down on these gathered Assamites.
John continues. He gestures to a few in the crowd, "You've told me how those Israeli bastards razed your village. You've told me how they massacred your entire family. And I...I still can't believe what--what they did to those poor children..."
His voice grows bitter and filled with disgust, "We have a chance here, people. Not just a chance to fight back, but a chance to bite back. Oh, these assholes know what we are and we know what they are."
He gesticulates and fervently states, "They call US the monsters, but we're a whole lot more than they'll ever be...warts and all. Their hearts might still beat, but they have no Humanity!"
Everyone is silent and are hanging on to John's every word. He has their undivided attention.
He paces and clenches his fist, "I feel almost compelled to share this quote with you: 'Every drop of blood drawn with the lash shall be paid by another drawn with the sword.'"
He smiles faintly, "It's from Abraham Lincoln, heh. Changing what needs to changed, of course, we'll do what needs to be done, what HAS TO BE DONE! WHAT SHOULD BE DONE! It needs to be done!"
John's smile grows wider, "We've got the numbers and the skill. If we work together, we can overcome their weapons and technology. I promise you that. Now, who's with me? We can do it. We can, I trust you! I know almost all of you here by name, and I KNOW we can do it. Together!"
Many of the Assamites nod their heads and grunt in approval.
He holds his arms out wide. Almost the entire room raises their arms in the air and enthusiastically shouts, "DEATH TO ISRAEL! FREE PALESTINE! LONG LIVE THE BLADE OF HAQIM!"
Even the 2 Nosferatu raise a tentative, but appreciative arm. John's and Svetlana's lips curve into smiles of gratitude.
The energy in here is quite something.
John looks at Tommy and Garth and they nod approvingly, as do Zeina and Abdullah.
John Suarez was a writer at 1 time, but not of rousing speeches or anything of that sort.
John's eyes widen and his jaw drops. His mind is a little blown away. He had expected to be rejected outright or to be met with a whole lot more pushback and skepticism.
A short man from the front comments, "Very well, John habibi. We will go along with your plan. The Blade will Judge these foul Zionists and send them scattering with the very sands of the desert!"
His fellow Assamites and Svetlana agree. John sighs in relief and says, "Thank you. Thank you all. We'll give 'em hell, that's for damn sure."
He turns his head to the left and right and asks, "Any volunteers for who's gonna be leading the teams?"
A few hands are raised. Zeina steps up and beckons them to the side so she and Abdullah can begin to coordinate with them and figure out the next steps.
Tommy slowly claps his deformed hands together, "Aye, no bad, wee man. No bad. A bit on-the-nose, but it's an awfully effective short speech, I'll say that much. Rousing, hahaha!"
John looks at him and shrugs, "Yeah, well...thanks. That means a lot. But it's not all fun and games. All of the people you see here have lost people to Israel's rampaging lunacy and maniacal bloodlust. You--you wouldn't even be able to stomach or believe half the stories I hear sometimes."
He shudders and turns his head aside, "It's--it's nothing any horror flick can even come close to depicting, no. Anyway, I--I wasn't sure if it was gonna work or not, heh. But, yeah, thanks."
Some time later...
It's all been done. There's about a dozen Assamites split up in 4 teams. John, Samir, Abdullah, Zeina, Svetlana, and a few others are in 1 team. The other 3 teams are all scattered throughout the city and have been assigned the locations where they'll be waiting in ambush for the Inquisitors.
Tommy and Garth depart back to the safety of the underground.
John and his team are at a fairly empty (but not quite) parking lot near the outskirts of the city. He approaches a payphone booth- it's green in color and scuffed up around the edges.
He looks around and sees several parked cars. Some of the fancy ones are caked in dust while the paint on a few others is worn. He sighs and looks at the list of keywords that the Nosferatu have given him.
John exhales sharply, takes the receiver, and places it against his ear. He inserts a few coins and dials some random number. He waits a few seconds.
A man picks up, "Hello, who is this? What are you calling for?"
John randomly spouts out some of the keywords from the given list, "Blood. Beast. Kindred. Kindred. Vitae. I need a bag, man. Blood. Red stuff. Juicy red stuff. I'm already here, so just drop by and give it to me, OK?"
The man on the other end thunders, "What the hell is this?! Who are you?! What are you even talking about?! You have the wrong number! Stupid fucking prank callers!"
The line cuts off, and the dial tone begins beeping. John hangs the receiver and looks around. He sees no suspicious characters in the immediate area.
He smirks and nods to his fellow Assamites.
Showtime.
The Unit 8211 techs immediately pick up on this hella suspicious call. Someone in the Command Center calls out, "Sir, sir! We have picked something up! Just now!"
A tech adds, "Yes, sir! Many of the flagged keywords were utilized!"
The tech presses a button and says, "It's coming from the outskirts of the city. Here..."
Another tech in another row pipes up, "Sir! Another one! This one north of Sufi Street!"
Yet another call is noted and a tech says, "We're receiving another, sir! This one near the ruins of the Marjan Tower! What the hell is going on?!"
Lieutenant Veifer strokes his chin and narrows his eyes, "Stupid fucking animals. It was only a matter of time before they slipped up and revealed themselves to us. Send the patrol squads in."
He turns and orders, "All squads, standby for orders! The targets are beginning to appear...all over the city! All squads, prepare to move out!"
He taps his earpiece and informs the field operatives, "This is Lieutenant Maximillian Veifer to all field teams. Blank body activity is being reported in many areas. Proceed with caution and report your findings. Remember your training. Lt. Veifer out."
He turns and looks at his fellow agents. He says, "You know your tasks. Keep on it. Trace those signals."
He leaves the room, along with several other Inquisitors. The door closes shut behind them.
1 of the Unit 8211 techies speaks to the other, "This is strange, man. All at once, isn't that a bit odd?"
"Fuck that. They're not just vampires, they're Arabs- dumb as rocks. Besides, it's not like these animals know what a computer is."
"Haha, yeah, you're right. Fuckin' bloodsuckers. They're so gross, dude."
The tech shivers and shakes his head, "Yeah. Good thing we're here to kill 'em...all."
Lt. Veifer approaches Commander Obed's office. He pushes the doors open and salutes, "Sir! We've got something! We are preparing to deploy the patrol squads and investigate potential blank body activity. It is coming from all over the city."
Commander Obed rises from his chair and adjusts his collar, "Very good. Very good, indeed. These vermin have FINALLY given themselves away. Baruch HaShem! Now, we will show them the might of Am Yisrael's finest."
Lt. Veifer nods, "Yes, sir. We'll get our revenge for what those animals did to our people last night."
Commander Gallant picks up his pistol from his desk and puts it into his holster, "I will be accompanying a squad in the field, Lieutenant."
Lt. Veifer raises an eyebrow, "Sir? Are you sure about that?"
Commander Gallant holds up his hand and replies, "It is only fair and right for a Commander to be in the midst of battle against the enemy. Now, let's go and exterminate these unholy creatures."
"Yes, sir. This way, Commander."
Oh no. The big man is going into the field. This can't end well...
Commander Obed Gallant puts on some body armor. He checks the clip in his rifle and then slings it over his shoulder. He looks at himself in the mirror- he is decked out in all sorts of armor and is fully geared for war.
He looks into the reflection and says, "For Am Yisrael. For its people and its land. Amen."
With that, he decides to ride along with the team being dispatched to reinforce the approaching patrol units to where John and his team are at.
Yikes.
Lt. Veifer has a slightly uncomfortable expression on his face while he stays behind. His commanding officer is going to the frontlines. This is a new development.
But there's nothing he can do to change the Commander's mind, so he simply nods and watches him stride off into a dark SUV with a few heavily armed goons.
Lt. Veifer shakes his head and scoffs, "Hff. What is he thinking? Anyway, back to work. The sooner we're done with the blank bodies in this savage region, the better."
Back to the ambush point, a few minutes have passed.
John Suarez is pacing about, his mind and eyes keenly focused on his surroundings. His keen ears can make out a few sounds of a nearby highway.
A breeze blows through his hair, and he inhales the stinging scent. Zeina is already gripping her long dagger and is just about ready to pounce.
Abdullah paces around and bites his thumb nail. He has that look of fear on his face. As much as he wanted to use his Blood Sorcery to give everyone's weapons an edge, he decided to save it up for a sticky situation.
It's an understandable concern, all things considered. It was easy when it was just a few blades to enchant (and enhance), but there's dozens of sharp, gnarly, and pointy stabby-slashy things that'll be able to do the job just fine tonight.
Samir stands by a covered car with a poignard in 1 hand and a locket in the other. He looks at it affectionately and cracks a small, almost wistful smile.
He looks around and mutters, "We will prevail. I know we will. It will not be long before we can all finally rest. Our cause is just, our Blades are sharp, and our intentions are pure and honest."
Svetlana is a bit away, looking down the street for anything or anyone that looks like it could be an Inquisitor. She's got her 2 daggers ready. She swallows the lump in her throat and takes a few deep breaths.
A few moments pass by.
Nothing.
There's no sign of any approaching Inquisitors yet.
Svetlana walks back to the group and says, "Nothing yet. Maybe they are not coming?"
Abdullah looks at his shoes and answers, "They will be here. Do not worry."
Zeina sniffs, "God is with us. The Zionists are bloodthirsty- they will not pass on an opportunity to inflict violence on those whom they deem inferior."
Samir adds, "Yes. We must be strong. If the plan has not worked, then I am sure John habibi will figure out what to do next. We have come so far, and it would be a shame to stop now."
Svetlana gives a half smile and nods her head.
John's eyes dart around the parking lot and surrounding area; he's a lot more twitchy than usual. He runs his finger along his katana blade, feeling the cold steel beneath his colder finger.
A few more minutes pass. The night's still as calm and as silent as ever.
Svetlana is a little restless and can't help but feel that something is off. The others around here are getting a bit anxious too. Some of them begin to wonder if the SI's even gonna show up.
Oh, they'll show up, alright.
The multi-level parking lot is a bit of a maze. It's got several floors and a lot of cars, some in better condition than others. There are also a few staircases and elevators that lead to the upper levels.
It's quite grimy and doesn't look like it's been cleaned in a while. John and his team take up more fortified and defensive positions. The concrete walls look worn and damaged.
As soon as everyone gets into position, Svetlana has that sinking feeling of being watched. Her keen senses alert her of the faintest of noises coming from behind her- she can make out the sounds of...
Giggling.
Little Chloe's Wraith flickers in and out of sight- of course. A Wraith is bound to their Fetter, so no surprise there.
She's giggling and holding onto a very fluffy, very cuddly, very huggable, but spectral teddy bear. She waves at Svetlana.
Svetlana freezes and lets out a light gasp, her jaw slightly slack. John doesn't sense a damn thing. Neither do the other Assamites present.
Svetlana makes a shooing gesture with her hand and Samir spots this. His eyes narrow in confusion as he stares at her.
The 1st wave is yet to arrive. Commander Gallant and the squad he's riding with will take even longer. In the SUV, the other goons are awestruck that their beloved Commander would choose to go out into the field with them.
Commander Obed holds up his hand and shakes his head, "Oh, please. It is nothing. If anything, it is only fair for a Commander to...lead by example, yes? Furthermore, after our recent losses, I feel that there is much more I can do to increase troop morale, yes?"
The other SI thugs nod in unison. The guy in the front seat, speaking with an American accent, turns over and asks, "Any words of advice, sir?"
Commander Gallant coldly states, "Yes- we are fighting animals. Act accordingly."
Grim sounds of laughter erupt in the vehicle. Commander Obed merely has a stone-faced look.
A thug from the back seat says, "They are blank bodies AND terrorists, gah!" He grunts and adds, "At least we have an opportunity here, sir!"
Commander Gallant checks a shotgun. He loads up some orange-colored whitey-p rounds into the underside and cocks it, "That we do. And we must make sure that we give these animals the punishment they so richly deserve. If not us, then who, hmm?"
Lt. Hilda Klein makes sure that the other squads are dispatched to the other hotspots. Even she wonders why her Commander wanted to personally lead a strike force. It's a risky move, and a fairly dumb one to boot.
But who can tell the glorious leader (tm) what he should do? That man has always been a bit too arrogant for his own good. Not that anyone will say a word, though.
Commander Obed Gallant has got high connections in the Israeli military-intelligence apparatus. Connections that could make anyone's life a living hell if they were to make the wrong kinda move.
Back to the Assamites...
Samir is leaning against a concrete wall. He keeps looking over his shoulder to make sure that Svetlana is doing OK. She keeps making shooing gestures at seemingly nothing, so that's...a bit strange.
He spends a few moments thinking about his past in Iraq. Like any Banu Haqim, he has the Clan Bane of Blood Addiction- Diablerie. There was this Lasombra Blackwater mercenary (yep) that eventually wound up falling to Samir's fangs.
Samir Diablerized that merc and by doing so, enhanced his own Obfuscate powers. Now, he's essentially able to merge with the shadows when using Obfuscate. It comes in handy in areas that aren't very well-lit.
Still, Amaranth is not all fun and games- there are certain downsides to it. The most obvious is the loss of one's Humanity when consuming another Kindred's Vitae and drawing their "essence" into one's own.
Samir does, from time to time, grapple with such questions. Either way, he puts all that to the back of his mind when he sees a light-beige van approaching, its headlights piercing through the darkness of the night. His ears perk up when he hears its engine humming.
John's head snaps over in the direction of the van, his eyes wide with anticipation, "Here they come!"
He raises his head and loudly whispers to his fellow Assamites, "It's them- go! Get into position!" he nods to his team, and they begin to hunker down.
A few Inquisitors step out of the van. They're dressed plainly and have small firearms. Some buzzing noise overhead draws the attention of the Assamites. A few drones float above. They're small ones, but their camera-lens "eyes" are scanning the lot, recording everything.
1 of the goons approaches an SUV on the opposite side of the parking lot. It's covered in a thick layer of dust, but it still runs fine. She runs her finger across the dusty hood and shrugs.
Samir activates his Obfuscate Discipline, whispers something to himself in Arabic, and almost melds with the nearby shadows. The other Assamites here awe at this strange and unusual power, but Samir pays no heed. It's nothing special, he says.
Just a variation of Obfuscate, that's all.
John looks around for Svetlana- she's crouched near a staircase and is keeping a keen eye on the SI. He nods approvingly and whispers, "Get into position. Let's try and take a few out quietly- save our energy for the main battle, OK?"
Svetlana shakily nods, "Da."
John comes over to her and places his hand on her shoulder, "Hey, you OK?"
"Da. I am fine. You?"
"Heh, don't worry about me. Let's keep that promise we made, alright?"
"Da. To watch each other's backs. Always."
The Inquisitor with the dusty finger is dragged away into the darkness. Samir's poignard glides across her neck and she is silently taken down. Her eyes glaze over, and her body goes limp. John gives Samir a thumbs-up. He does not see a trace of blood. He did the deed quickly, efficiently, and quietly.
Samir nods and smiles back at him- a faint, yet sincere one.
The SI thugs turn their heads to see that the 1st goon has disappeared into the dark. They point at that general direction, shout in Hebrew, but don't approach.
Another operative turns on his flashlight and shines it around the immediate area, but to no avail. His eyes widen, and his heartbeat begins to quicken. He motions for his colleagues to keep it together and remain on their guard.
Samir vanishes into the darkness again. The thugs can only hear the whispers of the wind- whispers that are a perfect mask for Svetlana to activate her Obfuscate Discipline and conceal her form. Her vision sharpens and she fades away from sight.
The goons turn to the drones and radio back to HQ that something is off- but nothing's happening.
"HQ, come in! HQ?"
John breathes in and out. Not that he needs to but, eh. He waits for the perfect moment. He shuts his eyes, gathers his composure, calms his dead nerves, and opens his eyes again.
The world around him comes to a near standstill. In a flash of an instant, he blinks forward, swirls his katana blade about in an almost majestically fast dance of death and bloodshed, and lets lose his blade's fury at the closest 2 thugs.
Blood splatters on the dusty and grimy concrete walls. John looks back and nods to the rest of his team. Zeina grins wickedly as her fangs flash in the darkness. Her dagger pierces a goon's throat as he gurgles, chokes, and gawks.
Abdullah remains hidden. He digs his claw into his palm and lets some of his Vitae drip to the ground. He draws some kind of sigil from it, chants in Arabic, and blows gently on it. It begins to glow with an orange-ish, faint hue.
Svetlana flanks to the opposite side and looks to see how John's doing. He's fast; blink-and-you'll-miss-it fast.
Another Inquisitor sees his fellow soldiers collapse and begin convulsing on the ground. He begins to wildly fire his SMG into the shadows, spraying a hail of bullets in no particular direction. He shouts at the drones. They buzz about the area, streaming the events unfolding before them.
Chaos erupts in the lot as the other Assamites charge into battle. A few of the SI thugs begin to fire their weapons- 1 of them aims and squeezes the trigger and fires at Svetlana, hitting her in the shoulder.
Svetlana curses and groans. She disappears from sight and reappears behind that bastard. She drives her dagger into his shoulder and twists in with as much ferocity as she can muster.
He drops the gun and tries to wrestle the weapon out of his flesh. His blood stains her hands and the dagger, and he shivers as he tries to squirm away. Svetlana pulls her other dagger out with a grunt and stabs him in the eye. He collapses, groaning, and dies with a whimper.
A few seconds pass and a drone turns towards the commotion. Its lens flashes, and Svetlana disappears.
Abdullah stands by a concrete column, bloodied hands trembling like mad. Of all the Blade of Haqim members in this Domain, he's the only one who doesn't make use of a melee weapon.
His Blood IS his weapon.
The other Assamites get shot at, but stab and slash their way through their opponents with little difficulty. Abdullah holds out his hand, his claw glistening with his Vitae.
The drone stops mid-air and its camera flashes, zooms in, and focuses in on Abdullah.
Abdullah screams into the air and the drones begin to shut down and crash to the ground. He's panting, breathing in and out. His body trembles. He's clearly pushing himself over here.
As a barrage of bullets whiz past him, he slinks back into cover and keeps a watchful eye on his allies.
Svetlana grabs her injured shoulder. The wound slowly begins to close, and she grimaces as the bullets ping around her. She rushes back into the shadows and fades out of view. She curses again as her hand smothers her sore shoulder.
A goon reaches for her and shouts, "Fuck you!" he rushes her with a wooden stake and almost jams it into her chest, but he gets tackled by Samir, who rams a dagger into his forehead.
His body goes limp, and he falls onto the concrete. Samir holds out his hand, "Are you alright, Svetlana?"
Svetlana smiles at him and nods, "Da...spasibo." She looks around and leaps into the fray where 2 stake-wielding operators are ganging up on Zeina. Svetlana's eyes narrow in fury and she launches herself at them.
She shoves them off Zeina and then begins to wildly slash at their necks.
The other Assamites don't show the faintest signs of exhaustion yet. But then, who can tell?
A few more Inquisitors drop dead from severed heads and cut throats. Their blood sprays the air as they all meet a messy end. The parking lot begins to fill up with the dead and the dying.
John is cutting open an SI operator's abdomen and slashing across his torso with a brutal uppercut. Another Assamite blinks back and forth, slicing (and dicing) up the Inquisitors, while another stabs her dagger into the heart of a dying foe, making sure that they stay dead.
Now, there's only a few Inquisitors left. Maybe they'll make a run for it? But then, something happens...and not the good kind of happening.
John's eyes go wide in horror. His hands go slack, and his jaw drops as he looks around the lot, his eyes frantically darting from 1 direction to the next.
Commander Gallant and the other thugs arrive. He's decked out in full-body armor and carries a shotgun in 1 hand. He takes a moment to look around. He can smell the fighting, and he can feel the chaos and destruction in the area.
Screams, erratic gunfire, howling, growling, bones snapping, gross squelching sounds, and so on.
Inquisitors in heavy riot gear emerge out of the SUV and begin firing their incendiary shotguns and flamethrowers, spreading a hazy orange glow of hellish fire about the place. The parking lot is slowly (but surely) beginning to resemble a hellish inferno of doom.
Samir hisses and begins to feel his skin burning up. He desperately tries to find cover as the fire spreads to some cars. He hides behind a column and screams in pain. His Rötschreck is triggered, and he winces as he can feel the intensity of those flames.
Chloe's Wraith reappears again, giggling and floating around Svetlana as the fire spreads to her position. Her hand extends and taps Svetlana's shoulder. She almost yelps out in shock. She can't hear the fire or see the smoke; she's got tunnel-vision for the Wraith, and nothing more.
Abdullah's hand begins to twitch.
An Inquisitor raises his gun and points it at Svetlana's head while another one approaches her with a long wooden stake. Svetlana, her hands stained in blood, stares at the shimmering child in front of her, completely and totally distracted.
John slashes another goon and notices his Childe from the corner of his eye. He gasps and his eyes widen. He musters up everything within his undead being and flashes to her in a hurry. His Celerity carries him like a storm as he slashes across an Inquisitor's throat.
Svetlana gasps in horror and snaps back into reality as soon as the Inquisitor's corpse lands on her feet. She looks to her side and sees John, blood-spattered and wide-eyed with worry. She exhales deeply and manages to nod at him.
John quickly eliminates the other thug. Amidst all the gunfire, he puts his hands on Svetlana's shoulders and shakes her, "FOCUS, Svetlana! What the hell happened back there?!"
Svetlana's eyes go wide with horror as she realizes what she was about to do- almost get herself destroyed (or captured), "John, I'm sorry! I--"
"Forget it! Just stay focused, dammit!"
"But John--"
John yells over the roaring fires and the intense fighting, "LATER, damn it! Focus! Go! Now!" he rushes back to the fray, katana at the ready.
Svetlana takes a quick moment to gather her composure. Zeina is engaged in fisticuffs with someone who is VERY keen on ramming a stake in her chest.
Abdullah is still hiding behind a column and keeps a watchful eye on his teammates. The fire is beginning to spread to his area, so he runs for better cover as bullets fly past him. A bullet grazes his ear. He keels over and winces in pain.
Commander Gallant, that smug sonofabitch, orders his troops to secure the lot. He makes the usual tactical hand gestures and has his chin held high.
An Assamite tries to bum-rush him, but he shotguns the vampire down with 2 blasts. They crumble to ash in front of him. He shakes his head, "Fools..." he scoffs at the pile of ashes near his feet.
Zeina and her foe are engaged in an intense fist fight. Her fangs flash as her foe keeps her at bay with a stake. She grunts in frustration and darts around the goon, but he manages to dodge her every blow.
He punches her in the face, sending her sprawling onto the concrete floor. He looms over her with a stake, hissing, "Got you now, bitch!"
He's about to thrust it into her chest when another Assamite drives his sword through that goon's mouth.
His blood rains down on her. She pushes the body away and thanks her fellow Assassin. He points and gestures at the others, who are in trouble- they need to move NOW!
Abdullah tries to push forward to get to a more advantageous position. He gets cut off by 2 other goons, 1 armed with an incendiary shotgun and another wielding a long, wooden stake.
"Don't even think about it."
Abdullah sheepishly raises his bloodied hands and swallows deeply. The stake-wielder slowly approaches the Assamite Blood Sorcerer and is about to plunge the stake through his heart when he notices some red mist rising from out of nowhere.
"What the...?"
The 2 Inquisitors begin to wheeze and choke. They claw at their necks as if there's some invisible force around it. They start gasping for air and fall to their knees, desperately struggling for their lives.
Abdullah looks down on the 2 thugs with an air of pity. He snaps his fingers, and the Inquisitors' bodies crumple to the ground, eyes rolled over into the back of their skulls and mouths frothing.
He looks down at the corpses and plainly says, "The Blade Judges you."
Samir's Rötschreck has reduced, but he's still afraid of the searing flames and the bright lights of the fire. He tries to push forward to help his fellow Assamites. He rushes at 1 of the thugs in a wild bum-rush when his foot gets shot- a few AP rounds go into his ankle and shin, sending him sprawling on the concrete.
He screams in agony. His eyes dart all over the place as he frantically crawls away from the Inquisitors, his hand grasping his wounded leg. He crawls to the shadows and readies his weapon as the operators close in on him.
Another Assamite goes to assist Samir but is quickly taken out with a flamethrower. Svetlana hears him screaming and gasps. Her hand instinctively goes for her dagger and she's about to rush into battle, but she hesitates.
From where she's standing, she sees Commander Obed Gallant. She freezes in place as feelings of primal terror begin to wash over her. Those soulless gray eyes of his, those facial features.
She has seen this man before. She has encountered him before.
Amidst all the carnage, she stands there. Slack-jawed and wide-eyed, memories from her past begin to rear their ugly heads as she struggles to retain her composure. The flames around her burn brighter and the screams grow louder as the past and present seem to meld together into a hellish mess.
A loud ringing begins to sound in Svetlana's ears. It gets louder and louder, as does everything around her. Her head spins, and her eyes grow hazy.
She remembers strong and harsh hands forcing her face into the ground. Pants unzipping, loud talking in English and Hebrew, and a rough and brute force that no person can forget...
She was just 18 when it happened.
It all comes flooding back. A damp and musty hotel room in India. 4 Israeli men and 1 Israeli woman were present on that fateful and horrible evening.
Svetlana frantically shakes her head and mutters something incomprehensible. She tries to move, but she remains frozen in place. Out of desperation, she channels as much of her Vitae as she can into her Obfuscate Discipline.
She tries and tries and tries, but she just flickers in and out of view.
Commander Gallant scares off a few approaching vampires with his incendiary shotgun rounds while Svetlana, shivering in her boots, struggles to disappear out of sight.
Commander Obed orders a few goons to focus their fire on this or that direction. He notices the flickering form of Svetlana and points his finger at it, "That way! Get it! GO!"
Svetlana, panicking, looks at that vile man in fear as a goon gets close to her position. Her lips quiver and tears of blood begin to flow down her face. She sees John out of the corner of her eye fighting tooth-and-nail, a look of desperation on his face.
The thug stops in her tracks and is almost amazed by Svetlana crying tears of blood, "What in god's name?"
John angrily screams out, trying to dodge stakes and shotty rounds alike, "SVETLANA! FOCUS! SVETLANA!"
She hears her Sire calling her name, but it's just a faint echo. Those horrid memories of that particular evening all come flooding back as the fire burns and rages around her. Her throat goes dry. She can't move or fight- she just freezes up and trembles, trying in vain to hide.
A flash of something metallic gleams in the fire and slashes the back of the approaching Inquisitor's head. The stake clatters onto the concrete, and they fall face-first onto the concrete floor with a dull thud, blood seeping out from their neck.
Another goon spots the flickering Svetlana. He aims his gun and squeezes the trigger, but he is quickly taken out by a slash of a blade, followed by a loud scream from 1 of the other Assamites.
This is a disaster. The SI clearly has the upper hand here. A few more Assamites are turned to ash either by the incendiary rounds or flamethrowers.
Zeina tries to dash at Commander Gallant, but his fiery shotty rounds send her fleeing in the other direction, wildly screeching and hissing as the hot flames singe her hair and flesh.
Svetlana's gaze remains transfixed on the Commander. Her face is blank, and sanguine tears continue to flow down her face as she flickers in and out of sight.
She remains motionless and mute. All the memories she had buried deep in the darkest depths of her mind begin to resurface in a violent storm as her eyes remain fixed on that horrible, terrible man.
The way he and the other men laughed at her. The way that other woman...recorded the whole fucking thing and laughed along with the others.
John yells at his Childe, "SVETLANA! WHAT'S THE MATTER WITH YOU?!"
Abdullah uses his Blood to create more corrosive red mist that envelops the area around Svetlana. Inquisitors and drones alike fall to the ground as the mist does its work. But he knows that this won't last long.
He pants as his Vitae drips from his hands. He can't keep this up. But, for the time being, his teammates need this distraction to regroup and get the fuck out of here!
Samir stabs and slashes a heavy shotgunner and limps away as a gaping bullet wound on his abdomen begins to mend itself. Zeina howls as she gets hit by more incendiary shotty rounds and goes scrambling into the shadows.
She hides and gathers her composure as the searing pain begins to spread across her body. She stifles a groan and blinks a few times.
Commander Obed Gallant hacks and coughs in the smokey lot. He can't see a goddamn thing! He orders his soldiers to move up as his vision gets blurrier, and his eyes catch something out of the corner.
Some of the troops are beginning to choke on and die from the red mist. The others fall back as they see it gathering up near their feet.
John and the other surviving Assamites are clearly at their limit. He screams, "OUT! OUT!"
Commander Gallant smugly smirks and lifts his chin upon hearing his foe admit defeat. He calls out, "There is no place that you can hide, blank body! Show yourself and I promise to make it quick."
John shakes his head and winces in pain as he sees a light bullet wound in his chest begin to close up, "Dammit. We'll be back to finish you off! Asshole. Let's go!"
He sees an opening and makes a dash for it, as does the rest of his team. John frantically looks around.
Svetlana still hasn't moved from her spot. At least Abdullah's red mist keeps her safe from those fascist assholes...for now.
John shouts at his Childe and calls her name again, "SVETLANA! For fuck's sake!" he grabs her hand and yanks her away. He sees the Commander raise his gun at him and blinks away just in time.
Abdullah follows closely and wonders what's up with Svetlana, "Is she fine, habibi?! What's the matter with her?!" he's panting. He is quite low on Vitae right now.
John shakes his head, "I have no clue! I don't know!" he slows down and looks at her with a look of pity.
Svetlana, with a blank and distant stare, mutely and listlessly follows John, as if her Sire were leading her through an unknown world. Her body shivers, her legs are numb, her mouth is agape and dry.
She remembers being a terrified, confused, and lonely girl all those years ago, traveling by herself. The hotel room...
She was 18 then. Backpacking in India was all she could afford after her babushka had passed away. Given the socio-economic situation in post-USSR Ukraine, it was all that was left for her to do.
The tears flow as Svetlana gets yanked through blurry surroundings, with nothing but those horrid memories flooding her brain and paralyzing her very being.
She doesn't see the other Assamites. She doesn't see the tired faces and singed clothes. She doesn't see John trying his best to pull her away from all the madness and danger.
Going to India was originally suggested by a friend of hers. She really wanted to go to somewhere nicer, like Italy, but money was quite tight at the time, so she took a gamble and went to India.
Svetlana sees nothing but those 4 young guys and that horrible, terrible woman in her memories. Her green eyes remain locked in a frozen, blank stare. Her arms are numb, and her body goes slack as she walks. She barely even remembers anything else.
She had just turned 18.
John continues to call Svetlana's name and drags her along with the others as they run out of the lot, the fiery smoke (and rapidly dissipating red mist) obscuring the area while they all get to safety.
Svetlana sees that hotel room in India, sees those 5 Israelis...
"NYET! NYET! NOOOOO! AAAAAAAAAH! AAAAAAAARGH! HELP! HELP!" the Assamite starts to shake and convulse as more and more of these horrid, suppressed memories begin to flood her mind.
Her Sire's eyes widen in shock as she continues to scream at the top of her lungs. Svetlana starts clawing at her own arms, "HELP ME! HELP ME! HEEEEEELP MEEEE! NO! NO TOUCH! DON'T TOUCH! NOOO!"
Zeina's face goes from tired and weary to concerned as she listens to this, "What is happening to her?! She's...screaming! Someone do something!"
John cups his Childe's cheeks in his grimy hands and tries to look into her eyes while the other Assamites continue to run out of the area and hide, "Svetlana! Look at me!"
Svetlana gasps in horror and her lips quaver. She winces and tries to look away from her Sire, "No touch...don't touch...! NO! LEAVE ME! P--PLEASE!"
John shakes his head and repeats his question, "Svetlana! Svetlana, what's wrong with you?!" his face contorts with worry as he tries his best to look into her eyes, but Svetlana continues to look away in terror.
"NO! DON'T TOUCH!"
An Assamite from the front angrily hisses and remarks, "Keep it down! They will find us! Stop screaming!"
Another battered Assamite groans, "John, we have to keep moving. W--What's the matter with her? What happened?"
Svetlana desperately looks to the side, and John finally manages to meet his Childe's gaze. He is stunned to see the tears of blood constantly running down her cheeks.
John takes on a more sympathetic tone, "My god. What happened out there? Svetlana, look at me. We have to get the hell outta here, OK? Can you hear me? Just stay close, alright? We're not outta dodge just yet."
Svetlana simply mumbles, "No...please. No. I--I...hurting...very much. P--P--Painful." Her legs are shaking, and her body continues to go slack.
"Svetlana, listen to me..."
Svetlana's gaze meets her Sire's, "I--I can't! John...I can't! HURTING! HELP ME! SAVE ME!"
John's eyebrows furrow in worry, "You're...safe with me. OK? No one's gonna hurt you now, alright? No one. I'm here. Remember, we--we got each other's backs, right?"
Svetlana's lips move, but no sound comes out. The other Assamites try their best to make sense of the situation, but no one seems to have a clue about what just happened to John's Childe.
The surviving Assamites make their way through a dark tunnel that stinks like hell. It's littered with garbage, glass bottles, and discarded food.
The Judges waste no time in trying to get as far away as possible from those fascist pricks as John keeps an arm around Svetlana and looks into her eyes with a look of deep concern on his face.
Abdullah keeps looking back, thinking that either a trooper or a drone is following the group. The red mist has subsided. He can barely keep his balance due to fatigue, "John, I have nothing left in me, habibi. I can't keep us safe. If--if anything were to happen--"
Zeina grunts, "NO! Leave it. We--we could not have won this fight tonight." She groans as she stumbles to her knees and winces in pain.
Samir shakes his head and keeps his grip tightened on his poignard as they keep walking, "It--it's too risky. Keep going forward, do not look back. John, what about Svetlana? How is she? What happened to her?"
John shrugs, "I have no idea...she--she just started screaming bloody murder...I didn't know that she could be so loud." He keeps his hands on Svetlana's arms, keeping her steady and on the right track.
Samir opines, "Something distracts her, habibi. Something weighs down on her. I can sense it. I can feel it. Please, for all our sakes, find out what it is. You are her Sire, so the responsibility is yours."
Svetlana continues to sob blood in the middle of this shitty, stinky, and dark tunnel. Her entire body quavers, and she looks to the side, eyes wide in terror.
John gently shakes her, "Hey, hey, easy. Shh, shh. It's over now, OK? We're far away from all of that, alright? C'mon, talk to me. What happened back there?"
Svetlana tries to answer, but the words get caught in her throat, "I...I...I..." she blinks rapidly and forces a few deep breaths in and out. She doesn't want to look weak in front of her Sire and the others. She just keeps her head down and wipes the bloody tears away with the back of her hand.
Zeina sighs, "Come, everyone. Let's find a way out of here. Keep going." The rest of the surviving Assamites keep pushing forward and follow her lead.
Damn, what a night. The other Banu Haqim fare well enough, though. The SI fall for the ambush and are swiftly killed, but some of them manage to destroy a few vampires in return.
But the whys and the hows can all come later. For now, everyone just wants to go to ground, lick (mend) their wounds, and retreat into the safety and familiar comfort of their Havens or safe spots in this sprawling gilded metropolis.
John and Svetlana have a lot to talk about...there are things in each of their pasts that they'd both rather keep to themselves for a good long while.
But now, they can no longer afford to do so. The truth has to come out, no matter how painful and traumatizing it may be...
Svetlana's Haven, safe and familiar surroundings. The Banu Haqim Neonate looks at her colorful matryoshka dolls, and her expression softens a little. She stares into space with a distant look in her eyes as John sits by her side.
He holds his Childe's cold hand in his own and sighs deeply. He's not sure where to start...how to address this...whatever it is. His face remains tense and drawn. His brow furrows with worry.
His heavy eyes remain locked on Svetlana's face.
He gently shakes Svetlana's arms, "It's fine, alright? We're safe now, OK?"
Svetlana shakily mutters, "You...are sure?"
John sighs and weakly shakes his head, "I--I, well, I'm not, no, but I'm...we're gonna try, OK? It's alright. We got our asses kicked out there tonight. Wha--What happened back there? Are you OK? Talk to me, please. Tell me what's wrong? C'mon, Svetlana. This is me you're talking to- your Sire."
Svetlana gulps deeply and stares at her Sire, "That man..."
"Which one?"
"In--in the armor and holding fire gun. Leader, I think. T--Terrible eyes." Her body begins to shake again. More tears of blood begin to flow down her face.
John faintly nods, "Oh, yeah, I saw that asshole. He definitely looked like A leader, but THE leader? I seriously doubt it, Svetlana. Anyway, that doesn't matter. You...know him?"
Without skipping a beat, Svetlana plainly states, "Da. A face like that you do not forget so easily."
She pauses for a moment. Her face grows more somber. John remains silent and listens. His lips quaver slightly, but he says nothing. He knows something horrible happened to his Childe...he just can't figure out what it was or how it happened.
Svetlana continues, "In hotel room in India, I was only 18--"
"Oh my god. Did--did he--"
Svetlana nods, a grim and distant look on her face. She takes a deep breath and lets it out in a shaky sigh, "Da. He raped me, he and 3 other men." She closes her eyes. More tears of blood flow down her cheeks and onto her lap. Her voice breaks.
John's eyes widen and he covers his mouth with his hand. His throat tightens and he has to take a moment before he can even speak.
He gently puts an arm around Svetlana and tries his best to comfort her, "My god. That's...that's fucking awful! I'm--I'm so sorry, Svetlana. I had no idea."
Svetlana weakly shakes her head from side to side, "I never thought, in million years, I would see him again. After--after it happened, I tried my best to...forget. To...I do not know. Move on?" she blinks a few times and looks to the side.
John's face contorts with worry and he nods, "I can...understand that, yeah. I don't blame you for wanting to move on and forget. I'm just...so sorry. I don't mean to reopen old wounds, but HOW do you know that it's him?"
Svetlana looks at her Sire and answers, "Like I said: a face like that is not forgotten so easily. Da. For as long as I live, I will never forget...their faces."
She takes a moment and goes on, "That man is...is rapist. Back then, I was very young. Alone in strange country. I cry and cry, I beg, I scream, I fought, I struggle, but--"
John rubs Svetlana's back, "No one came to help."
"Da."
It all comes flooding back to her mind. An 18-year-old Svetlana Bobrov is walking down a poorly lit and congested hallway. Those 5 Israeli tourists were loud, obnoxious, entitled, and belligerent. But she didn't know that then.
She was just a naïve, innocent girl from Ukraine who wanted to travel the world.
Those 5 Israelis would treat the people around them with as much respect as they would a piece of wet cardboard and make a general nuisance of themselves.
The staff at that particular rundown hotel simply kept their heads low and did whatever they were asked, no matter how degrading or demeaning. Svetlana didn't understand much English at the time, so she could only try her best to avoid those boorish and rude creatures.
But she would find herself trapped in the elevator with 1 of them. This young man groped her and touched her against her will. He even tried to pull her into his room with him, but she screamed and managed to run away.
She was all alone in an unfamiliar land. She had no idea where to go or what to do. The cops came after some noise complaints, but they left soon after without bothering- typical apathetic authorities.
Svetlana even remembers seeing a cop saying "Namaste" to those tourists and saying how big of a supporter or Israel he was. Yuck.
"I tried to...avoid them, John. I mind my own business and stay quiet, but 1 evening, I get...cornered by 2 of them," Svetlana continues her story.
John shakes his head and looks away. His face grows more tense, "That's fucking terrible! I--I'm sorry. I know that's not much, but...what else can I say? I just--"
"Da. It is least you can do, John."
So, she got cornered in the hallway. She had just washed her hair, and the smell of shampoo and conditioner wafted in the air. As she was walking down the hallway, those 2 men made obscene gestures at her, jeered at her, and 1 of them even reached out and grabbed her breasts.
Svetlana tries her best to maintain a brave demeanor, but her eyes brim with bloody tears as she recalls this awful moment.
Having enough of their bullshit, she slapped that man who inappropriately touched her breasts. That man, much bigger and stronger than her, smacked her right back, leaving a painful sting on her cheek.
"And then, I scream at him, I--I don't know, in Ukrainian, Russian, English all mixed. I was young and very angry! But that is when others come out. I am so scared, I--I cry. They all laugh at me." Svetlana shudders at the memory of that terrible moment.
That's when she first sees the young Obed Gallant. He had his hands on his hips and his chin lifted. His eyes looked cold and hard, even back then. Those men, all much bigger and stronger than her, surrounded her. She couldn't get away.
"Th--They take me into room," she continues, "I cry for help, no one comes. I struggle, I kick, I scream, but nothing works." Her voice cracks and she has to pause before going on.
"Oh, god..." John is genuinely heartbroken to see his Childe relive this horrible experience. His voice lowers, "If you don't wanna go on, you don't have to..."
Svetlana shakes her head, "Nyet. Is better I--I tell you. I do not know who else to tell." She closes her eyes and sobs.
John puts an arm around her shoulders and tries to comfort her.
"I was so SCARED, John! There was woman in the hotel room. I look at her and ask for help, but she--she only smile and watch me, encourage those men. She was very beautiful, like model, but also...terrible, heartless."
Svetlana takes a deep breath and continues, "I look at her, I beg her to stop them, but they--they begin to--to pull out my clothes and--" she pauses for a moment and looks at her Sire.
Obed Gallant pulled her clothes off while shoving her face down against the floor. He was already on top of her, his hand squeezing her throat. She could barely breathe. She tried to get him off of her, but she was just too weak and afraid.
Svetlana winces and lets out a painful groan as she remembers the excruciating pain that she felt on that grim night. The woman who was with them that night smiled at the scene and laughed cruelly.
She even pulled out a camcorder and recorded the whole fucking ordeal. With pleading eyes, Svetlana looked at that woman for some sympathy, for some pity. She was just met with a sadistic smile and an encouraging nod to the boys.
"They all rape me, John," Svetlana says with a shaky voice, "I--I frozen. I could...could not move. My whole body shaking, sweating, cold. I was so afraid. So...afraid. I try to fight back, but I--I so weak and small. Nothing work." She wipes the bloody tears away with the sleeve of her shirt.
John's lips tremble and he has to take a moment before he can say anything, "I'm so sorry, Svetlana."
Svetlana sniffles, "They took turns. First, it was...that man I saw tonight. I--I cannot remember his name. They were all cheering and talking in their language. I did not understand what they were saying. All I know is that they were hurting...me. They make fun of me while I cried. I was so scared!"
John shakes his head, "I'm sorry. God, I'm so sorry..." he puts a hand on her shoulder and keeps listening to her story. It's a terrible one. He'd rather not hear it, but it's something that she needs to get off her chest.
"F--For long long time, I forget what happened. I try to move on, but then I see this man tonight. Terrible face I--I see every time I close my eyes to sleep in day. Sometimes, even in my dreams, I feel his hands on--on my body. I do not know what to do, I become so frighten. I--"
John slowly pulls her in for a tight hug. He shushes her and pats her back, "It's alright now, Svetlana. It's alright now."
"Nyet. Is not OK!"
He rubs her back, "That asshole can't hurt you now, alright? He won't hurt you again. He won't. I promise you that."
After a minute of tense silence, Svetlana breaks the hug and takes a moment to gather her thoughts. After those men had had their way with her, they shoved her out of their hotel room. It felt like it would never end, but eventually, it did.
The woman who was with them that night continued to film everything, even as Svetlana crawled out of the room crying and half-naked.
The poor girl then curled up in a corner of the hallway and wept. The 4 men came out of their room, wagged their fingers at her, and warned her that if she went to the authorities, they'd kill her.
They made throat-slitting gestures and brandished their IDF-issued knives at her. That was the last time Svetlana ever saw those repulsive creatures.
Her whole body shook with fear and dread as she was slumped against the walls of that hallway. That was when a middle-aged cleaning lady in a ragged saree spotted her. She spoke very little English and offered a kind word or 2 and tried her best to console her.
Svetlana broke down in tears as the woman gently patted her shoulder. The poor girl tried to tell the cleaning lady what had happened, but the only thing she could do was sob uncontrollably.
The cleaning lady took Svetlana back to her abode, which was just a thatched roof made of straw, brick, and wood in a tight and garbage-strewn alleyway behind the hotel.
She tried to ask Svetlana some questions about what had happened, but the girl just continued to shake her head and cry. Her face was covered in snot and tears.
Her lips quivered, and her whole body was shaking. She couldn't bring herself to speak a single word. All she did was crumple into the cleaning lady and sob transparent tears of grief and pain.
After Svetlana regained her strength, the cleaning lady's young daughter, a 11-year-old girl, acted as a sort of translator between the 2. The child's English was far better than her mother's, and Svetlana found this somewhat helpful.
But Svetlana just couldn't bring herself to tell anyone what had happened to her.
The cleaning lady, who knew that something was up, shook her head sadly and frowned. She had no idea what to say. Her eyes welled up with sympathetic tears, but she knew there was nothing she could do for this poor tourist girl.
Svetlana thanked these 2 kind folk for their hospitality and left the country soon after, vowing never to return. On the way, she contemplated filing an FIR (First Information Report) against those Israeli bastards, but she remembered how sharp their brandished knives were and quickly decided against it.
So, she kept silent about what happened that fateful night. She just moved on with her life and tried her best to forget that horrific incident.
It was hard...so very hard. It still is. She kept reliving that moment over and over again in her mind. While still a mortal, she would wake up in the middle of the day crying and shaking.
Back in Ukraine, Svetlana didn't have the heart to tell anyone what had happened. Lost and without much in the way of support, she decided to try her luck in the UAE, working informally as a babysitter.
The job situation in Ukraine wasn't too great, and she didn't have a college degree, so babysitting seemed like a good enough option.
Still, she wanted to lodge a complaint. Even after landing back in her home country, she contemplated her options. She even thought of booking another flight back to India to lodge a formal complaint with the authorities.
But every time she tried to call the Indian embassy or the consulate to see what her options were, she hung up in a fit of panic and shame. Same with the Ukrainian embassies and consulates in and around India.
Besides, there were mountains and mountains of unaddressed rape cases in India; Svetlana's would simply be a number in an ever-increasing pile of misery and tragedy. Even to this day, the authorities over there remain useless, callous, apathetic, and maliciously negligent as ever.
If she did file that FIR, some creepy asshole would probably ask her what she was wearing.
She couldn't bring herself to do it. Her throat tightened up, her eyes welled up with tears, and she felt like she was going to be sick. She thought she was going insane, that she was crazy.
Ms. Bobrov thought that those maniacs would track her down and slit her throat while she slept. She knew it was irrational, but she couldn't help but feel this way, so scared and afraid of everything.
It's horrible.
So, she kept silent about her ordeal for YEARS. The only person she had ever told was Prince Angela Whiteford, the Gangrel Dove Prince of Dubai. The now-destroyed Prince was a very understanding woman and could relate to what Svetlana was going through.
She listened to the then-Fledgling's story and provided some much-needed advice and guidance.
Prior to her destruction, Prince Angela was said to be looking into paying for Svetlana's therapy (which, considering the subject matter and the specialized sensitivity required, was pretty pricey), but things took a turn for the worse when the Imbued showed up and emptied the Kindred out of Dubai.
Svetlana, now completely empty on the inside, sits by her Sire's side and lets out a deep breath. Her face is drained of any color or warmth, "I...I do not know what else to say. I--I was so afraid, John. So...afraid."
John puts a hand on Svetlana's shoulder and squeezes it, "I can't even begin to imagine what you have been silently suffering through for all these years, Svetlana..."
Her story brings a bloody tear to John's eye. He reaches out and gently rubs his Childe's shoulder. His voice shakes a little as he speaks, "It's--it's just so fucking horrible, isn't it?"
John turns his gaze downwards, to the floor, "Where...where do we go from here, hmm? What do we do now?"
Svetlana stares off into the distance and blandly answers, "I do not know."
John hesitantly asks, "Can you still fight the SI? Can you still do this? If you want out, I WILL understand. The others will understand, too. If you want, I could even--"
Svetlana holds up her hand and shakes her head, "Nyet. I must fight. I am not scared little girl anymore, John. I am Banu Haqim, of the Blade of Haqim. I must pass Judgment."
As a Banu Haqim, her Clan Compulsion compels and drives her to punish those who have transgressed against her (or a "code" of some sort).
"But you're STILL my Childe! I don't want you to get hurt! If you need some time off, you should take it! I'm your Sire. I only want the best for you."
Svetlana shakes her head again, "Da. I know. But...I must fight. I need to fight. I want to fight."
With some determination in her eyes, she looks straight into her Sire's eyes and demands, "I want to Judge that govniuk (RU: shithead)."
John solemnly nods and promises her, "OK, absolutely. If you...if you think you're up for it--"
She growls and bares her fangs, "I am, John. We will find him and I...Will. Judge. Him."
It is clear that the trauma of that time still sticks to Ms. Bobrov on a cellular level. Also, she lacks the funds required for extremely specialized therapy that she so desperately needs.
John nods again and offers, "Absolutely. If there's anything, ANYTHING at all, just let me know, OK? We'll...we'll make this right, alright? We have to. As--as long as you're up for it. Tonight was...a goddamn mess."
Svetlana weakly nods her head and wipes her sanguine tears away with her sleeve, "Da. It was mess. Very much."
She licks her dry lips and stares at her Sire for a few moments, "John?"
"Yes, Svetlana?"
"Are you keeping...secrets from me?"
John laughs uncomfortably and rubs the base of his neck. He shakes his head frantically and avoids eye contact, "What? N--no." The shakiness in his tone betrays the truth of the matter.
"Are you sure?" Svetlana asks again. She sounds worried and concerned.
John laughs nervously again, "What? Of course! W--why would I keep secrets from you? That's--that's preposterous!" his voice cracks and his cheeks turn a bit red.
Svetlana glares at him with some discomfort and prods, "John. Are you hiding something from me?"
"No! I'm not hiding anything."
The silence that follows is palpable. Svetlana narrows her eyes, "Are you...sure? Why are you not looking at me, John?"
John gulps. His throat has suddenly gone dry. He tries his best to remain calm and composed, but it's not working out well for him. He blinks rapidly and his shriveled heart begins to race.
Svetlana leans in closer towards him. Her lips tighten as she scrutinizes her Sire, "You are hiding something, no? Is there something you're not telling me, John? Something...from your past, maybe?"
John scratches his chin and turns away, "I--I don't know what you're talking about."
"John..."
"I'm telling you the truth, dammit!"
Svetlana recoils back and gasps, "What is wrong with you, John? What is happening here? I--I do not understand...I only ask you simple question. You--you are good man, John--"
John sighs and looks down at his shoes. He interrupts his Chile with a scoff, "I--I wasn't always a good man, Svetlana. You got me, heh. I was a terrible, awful man, actually. I was an asshole."
He shakes his head and ruefully chuckles, "Aw, shit. I guess I gotta do this, too, huh? Well, it's only fair. You told me all about your past, it's only fair that I tell you all about mine."
Svetlana's expression softens as she nods, "Da. It is necessary, no?"
John nods back and takes a deep breath. His heart is still beating quite rapidly, "Well, if we're going to do this, then you're gonna have to promise me something."
"Promise you what?"
"That you won't lunge forward and try to attack me or anything. I--I did some pretty messed up things back in my mortal life, Svetlana. I wasn't always this goody two shoes guy you've come to know over the past 5 years."
Svetlana nods and promises her Sire, "I will not do that, John. All I know is that you are good man now. I trust you. Completely."
John's chest tightens as he hears these words of assurance and trust. He lets out a sigh and nods, "OK. Alright. Here we go...strap in on a ride through the John Suarez memory lane. It gets bumpy, just...hold tight."
It all began in Magnolia City, USA. The Swinging 1960s were in full effect. Space, civil rights, 'Nam, and so on. John was in the midst of it all. His ultra-religious mum had just died, but it wasn't peaceful, if anything, it was preventable.
"She was a real Jesus freak, Svetlana. I tried, so--so many times, to talk sense into her. I tried to get a doctor to see her, but that went about as well as you'd expect."
Eventually, she died, leaving John all alone and with a lot of unresolved issues. John's father, a Mexican laborer, was never really in the picture to begin with. John never knew the guy and was dissuaded from asking.
All his mother would ever tell him was that his dad was just "some handsome beaner" whom she had met long before she came to Jesus. Yup.
"That's...how she described him," John laughs nervously and wrings his hands together.
He's very nervous, and rightfully so, "That's how my own mom referred to my dad, yeah." John chuckles bitterly and looks down at the floor.
He has a sad smile on his face, but his eyes are welling up with bloody tears, "She...she was a piece of work, huh? A real piece of work. A pain on the best of days and a nuisance on the worst. Then again, she did provide for me..."
As a child, he recalls seeing his mother dressed in some diner uniform: candy-striped shirt and matching short skirt, white stockings, a paper hat, and shiny black shoes. She smiled, but it was always a tired and worn-out one.
She always complained about the skirt's length.
Her hair was always in a bun, and her lips were always covered in bright red lipstick of the cheap variety. Her other job was as a part-time secretary for some industrial tycoon. It paid a little better than the diner, but she was still exhausted and stressed out most of the time.
She worked a lot. When she wasn't slinging hash in the diner or shuffling papers at the fancy art deco office, she was out somewhere else, doing something else. It was just the 2 of them for the longest time. She raised him on her own. It was rough, but they somehow made do.
John was able to go to college, for a short 2-year course on writing. He did his best, aced his exams, and came out on the top. His mom didn't show up for his graduation as she was busy at some tent revival, throwing off her meager savings at the feet of some slimy preacher.
"I--I did it without her, Svetlana. My whole mortal life, I did everything without her. She was...she was there, but only physically. Most of the time, it was just me and my typewriter, or pen, or whatever," John says with a wistful, nostalgic look in his eye.
There's also some sadness there, too. His lips curl upwards a bit.
By the time his mother had passed on, John had secured for himself a very comfy and well-paying job at a now-defunct yellow rag. It was a job offer that was too good to refuse. He worked as a junior feature writer and would occasionally dip his toes in other areas.
It wasn't the most prestigious (or well-respected, let alone well-liked) of publications, but the pay was great, the benefits were solid, and the company had a good track record of being in the green despite all the loathsome filth they'd constantly churn out.
For a guy like him, it was a pretty good damn deal.
And he fit in with the place he worked at- snug as a bug, one might say. John was a bit of a contrarian asshole. He strongly disliked all the talk going around (at that time) of Civil Rights for black folk, amongst other things.
Despite being half-Mexican himself, he tried ever-so-desperately to fit in with the club (tm). He really exuded "pick-me" vibes.
If someone, especially a woman, said orange, John Suarez would butt in and say not-orange in a very smug and condescending manner. He'd do this just to get a negative reaction out of people.
He was actually willing to go and fight in Vietnam, but he got turned away (and laughed out of the recruitment center) due to his thin weight and short stature.
"In retrospect, I really dodged a bullet there, heh. I was just so...nasty all the time. And well, the propaganda back then, whoof, it was crazy. I was paranoid about seeing commies in my socks, haha!"
This nasty and cynical contrarian behavior was likely his own hardened shell that he had created as a result of his mother's religious zealotry. It was an act he would put up to try and impress others, especially his co-workers and his friends.
But, after a while, he realized that no one was buying it. So, he had to up the crudeness and uncultured nature of his persona.
"And that's when it began..."
His boss, also a major dickhead, called him in 1 evening and ordered him to go and write a scathing (preferably) review on a local African American singer who was in the area, performing at a concert.
That lady was quite popular with the peeps of Magnolia City, but she wasn't the biggest fan of the government or the system. She had even expressed some solidarity with the Vietnamese people in their struggles against American Imperialism.
The rag had a bone to pick with this young woman and was trying its darndest best to make her look bad, ruin her life, and discredit her in the public eye.
"Heh, my boss's voice sounded so fucking nasally and annoying. The guy was such an asshole. He was an old, bald greasy guy in his 40s who was really into all the Jim Crow shit. It even scared the hell outta me back then."
The bossman would routinely refer to John as a "fucking half-caste". The man would make it a point to be as bigoted and vile as possible, and John was always there to egg him on and feed the flame, even if he himself was the butt of the "joke".
"That's why he chose me for the job, I guess. Saw a bit of himself...in me. Ugrh." The Assamite grimaces and shudders at the very thought. He shakes his head and rubs his face with his hands. He feels dirty, unclean, and degraded.
"Anyway, I was the obvious choice, given my illustrious history. But the boss had his own reasons for sending me there. It was a nice concert hall. Beautiful velvety curtains, packed to the fucking brim, and all the lights were on. It was all so nice and beautiful and elegant, Svetlana."
He smiles fondly at the memory and nods, "The lighting was just perfect. I...I remember, I had a notebook and pen with me. I had my camera, too. I took photos and shit. She was...she was so goddamn beautiful. Her voice, too, it was..."
John stops for a moment, "N--Never mind. So, I went and saw the show. It was great. I didn't know much about music, but damn, could she sing."
As wistful and reminiscent as John is in the here-and-now, his initial reaction was a complete and utter opposite.
"I went in there with a preconceived notion. I found this lovely and classy young woman who had a--a great voice, real talent, y'know? But I was, I dunno--out for blood, I guess."
The lady in question was named Ladonna Hughes. She was in her late-20s, had lovely frizzy hair, a slim figure, and an infectious smile.
"She was just beautiful, Svetlana. Absolutely stunning. Even I admit, I was initially mesmerized when she opened her mouth and started to sing, and then...well--she sang her heart out that night. Sang like a goddamn goddess. It was...incredible. Truly...incredible now that I think back on it."
John felt something stir inside him during that performance. He felt...something. Something warm, fuzzy, and good. Ladonna was resplendent in a shiny sequins dress that glittered under the dazzling lights.
"She was like beauty itself, Svetlana. Impeccable, tasteful, and a--a goddess. But the bossman wanted her to be the opposite of those things. So, I did what any loyal, obedient, and subservient lapdog would do. I obeyed orders and did what he wanted."
After the show ended, he came back, sat in front of his brown-colored typewriter...clack, clack, clack. The venomous words flew out with such ease that John felt a high (that usually comes from tearing decent people down from a place of relative safety, comfort, and distance).
He didn't understand or question why it was so easy for him to type all this crap out.
"I typed up a VERY nasty little article and sent it back to the editor. I...I wasn't proud of what I had done, Svetlana. But I did it, and I felt good about it, at the time. REAL good."
The very last lines of that foul article read: "And one can't help but ask oneself- is all this Civil Rights talk a huge mistake? Well, we are starting to think it is. Subpar Negro mediocrity being awarded and even lauded is the last thing that the culture needs. It might be a hard pill for America to swallow, but better sooner rather than later."
(It was all John's words, mind you; the editor didn't really have to do much, save for a few grammar fixes here and there.)
"Well, shit. Now you know, Svetlana. You now know who I was. That's--that's me, Svetlana. I used to be...that. I used to be THAT kind of guy. I don't expect you to forgive me, and I hope that this won't change how you view me, but..."
He stops for a moment and adds, "Oh, yeah...you're wondering how this all connects to my Sire. It does. It...does."
The woman who'd go on to become John's Sire, Fatima Ibn Rashid (a Banu Haqim Elder of the Blade of Haqim), was present in the audience that very night.
She was seated in the back, dressed in casual wear- dark bell bottoms, a plain blouse, and a colorful scarf.
"She was--I didn't even notice her when I walked in. I think I took her picture..."
In truth, Fatima was deeply in love with Ladonna. Imagine if something like THAT had gotten out back then! It was only much later that John became aware of his Sire's relationship with Ladonna.
"I shall think of you / Think of you / Think of you / Till I die" Ladonna sang that as she looked straight into the eyes of the woman she loved. No one really clocked it back then, but Fatima had to hold back tears of blood. She simply smiled and nodded back at her lover.
After the concert, they simply touched foreheads in the dressing room and held each other's hands. They whispered words of love and affection to one another. Fatima gave Ladonna a bouquet of white lilies and kissed her cheek.
After that, they parted ways. Ladonna did a little meet-and-greet, signed a few autographs, posed for a few pics, the usual. The entire crowd (save for John) gave her a standing ovation that lasted for about 4 minutes.
Being the smug contrarian that he was, he simply folded his legs and looked all disinterested and apathetic.
"I mean, the applause was just insane, Svetlana! There were people standing and clapping and shouting and whistling and hollering! They loved her. It was something!"
Meanwhile, the woman John would come to know as his Sire, Fatima, was already preparing to leave. She brushed past him and disappeared into the cold winter night.
Eventually, poison must act. And act it certainly did. John's article spread like a goddamn wildfire due to its...incendiary nature. Poor Ladonna was inundated with angry mail and death threats, undue and unwanted attention, and all sorts of nasty crap.
The public was in an uproar, and the authorities had to get involved. It was a whole big mess, and she even had to go into hiding for a while. The yellow rag's circulation was up for a while, and the boss was pleased with John's work.
He received a big bonus that month and tickets to Varosha, Cyprus- quite a popular tourist destination back in the 60s.
In time, the pressure got so bad, that poor Ladonna completely withdrew from the public altogether. Scheduled appearances were abruptly cancelled, she became very reclusive, and it somehow leaked that Ladonna was a lesbian when she was caught with another woman, having some fun.
The vultures in the yellow press fucking ran with that, like there was literally nothing else of importance going on in the world at the time.
Ladonna's career was effectively over. She moved to someplace outside Magnolia City and didn't even bother to show her face in public no more.
Fatima, for her part, was absolutely horrified at the turn of events. She did everything in her power to track down Ladonna, but it was futile.
By the time the Elder Assamite had tracked her lover, it was already too late. Ladonna Hughes was found, suspended from a ceiling fan in a small motel room, hanging from a rope. There were withered white lilies at her feet.
A note was left on the bedside table, which simply read: "I just can't do this no more. It's all too much, the media circus, the madness. I'm sorry. Fatima, I love you. I've never forgotten you. Oh, Fatima, your smile, your touch, it meant so much to me. I couldn't say for sure today whether your eyes were blue or grey."
The note ended: "I shall think of you. Think of you, think of you, till I die."
With bloody tears running down her cheeks, Fatima pocketed the note (for obvious reasons) and took it upon herself to cremate the body of her dead lover and spread the ashes across the waters.
"I killed her, Svetlana. The woman that my Sire was in love with...I killed her! I didn't need a gun or a knife or cyanide to do it. I did it, smugly, from the comfort of my...cigarette smoke-ridden workplace, I--"
John buries his face in his hands and sobs, tears of blood seeping through the cracks of his fingers, "Oh god, Svetlana, I KILLED HER!"
Svetlana simply places a reassuring hand on her Sire's shoulder.
John lifts his head and looks back at Svetlana with a pained expression on his face, "It--it isn't over yet..."
After that, Fatima began her investigation. She'd stalked the yellow rags, read through the articles, and dealt with anyone who seemed like they deserved to die.
Suicide is after all, a form of murder. Social murder. John and other merchants of lies and tripe are the ones who were ultimately responsible for Ladonna's untimely death.
"She'd read through them all and if she felt like someone needed to be...Judged, she'd go and just do it, and that's it. No one ever found the bodies and the MCPD gave up on searching for 'em."
By then, John was happy as can be- at the top of the world, as it were. He was getting ready for his all-expenses-paid vacay to Cyprus. The plane tickets were already booked, the night sky was clear, the stars were twinkling, and it was a great time. The flight was due to leave in less than an hour.
"The bossman, the same bastard who had ordered me to write that shit, the same bastard who'd call me a half-caste and all that racist garbage, he...he gave me this huge ass raise and a promotion along with the promise of a corner office in the new building when I came back."
As John was dragging his suitcases out of his house, Fatima was already outside, waiting and watching. Darkness gleamed in the Elder Assassin's eyes. Her fangs were fully out, as were her claws.
"My Sire...she was apparently still out there searching for ALL of those who were responsible for Ladonna's suicide. And I--I'm right there, near the tippy-top of her list. I don't know where she is or how she is, but--"
She was there to kill him that night. And, well, she did. After all, to Embrace someone, a Kindred must first drain them, exsanguinate them, of all their blood.
She approached this man from behind and viciously grabbed him. Her long and pointy fangs burrowed into his skin as he struggled, wheezed, and gasped. She drained him of his blood and discarded his corpse.
"She did the deed right at my front door. It was cold and lonely. There was no one there, no one to help, no one to see. It was...the end for me."
Or so he thought.
Fatima, her mouth crimson with fresh blood, knelt down besides his motionless body and ran her hand across his body. Her lips trembled and she felt...pity and remorse when she looked at John.
Her bitter expression softened, and she used her razor-sharp nails and cut her wrist open, allowing her own Vitae to flow. She opened John's mouth and allowed some of her Vitae to seep inside him.
"She...Embraced me. Gave me a second chance. A--an opportunity to make amends, to be a better man, a better person, y'know? It was...a kindness that I wasn't worthy of. A--A--Another shot at things."
The process was slow and excruciating. The first few nights were hell for him. John spent his first nights as a Fledgling Assamite locked inside his house. He couldn't leave, his entire body was sore and in constant pain, and the Hunger was unbearable.
Fatima would visit him, usually with a mortal to feed from, and offer some words of encouragement and advice, albeit in a very cold and distant manner.
Her mien still indicated that she was holding back some deep-seated rage and resentment for the man who was the most responsible for killing the woman that she was in love with, but she still chose not to kill him.
Killing him is probably something that Ladonna wouldn't have wanted. It wouldn't be a way to honor her memory.
Regardless, Fatima had her own reasons for doing so, reasons that she alone is privy to. Even John isn't too sure why she chose him while killing the other scandalmongers and slop-pushers.
"To THIS VERY NIGHT, I'm still not sure why she spared me, and not the others. I guess I'll never really know. I've always been a bit curious, but...it's a sensitive issue, so I've chosen not to ask about it or prod too much."
He was her Childe, and she was his Sire. Well, formally at least. Was it an authorized Embrace?
Ehhhh...
Magnolia City was going through some issues in the Kindred leadership structure back in the 60s. By the end of all the long and drawn-out hullabaloo, a bunch of Salubri (3-eyed vampires) had gained control over the Domain.
"Anyways, I could feel Fatima's disdain and loathing every time she was around. She didn't want anything to do with me, but she did it anyway. She did it, because she...probably felt sorry for me."
Svetlana is just sitting there, silently listening. Her facial expressions haven't changed.
"And that's--that's pretty much the skinny, Svetlana. I dunno what you think about this or how you feel, but...there's something else I haven't told you yet. There's a whole lot more to the story."
Of course there is.
Fatima eventually left Magnolia City a few weeks after John's Embrace. Some say she was Beckoned off to somewhere else. As an Elder bloodsucker, that was kinda expected, really. Or maybe she couldn't bare to be in the city where she had lost the love of her Unlife.
"Before she disappeared, she left me in the care of this Palestinian doctor named George Fateh. Same Clan. I've talked a lot about him before."
"Take care of this one, Dr. George. He is fast, too fast for his own good at times. If he becomes trouble, Judge him. It would certainly be a shame if that is the case. He...he shows some promise to our cause, nevertheless. But keep him under your watchful eye all the same, yes?" this was the last thing that John overheard his Sire tell Dr. George.
She then walked out the door without looking back or saying another word.
"Well, well, well. Fatima's Childe, eh? You do not know the power that courses through your veins. She has told me all about you, Fledgling. Come, come, follow me. There is much for you to learn about the Blade of Haqim. Much indeed!"
After a night, John took the opportunity to run away from the man whose care he had been thrust into.
"I um...booked it, heh."
Well, from there, John goes on to tell his Childe about how he fell in with a (sort of) wrong crowd, the kinds that have fangs and claws, too.
Eventually, he would go on to goad a Lasombra named Jacob into Diablerizing a Hecata Elder named Giordano.
Svetlana gasps at that but chooses to say nothing. She simply nods and continues to listen. Her eyes widen slightly, but that's about it. She takes it all in. It is...a lot to process. Her Sire has quite a history!
"I--I Diablerized a few, too, but I kinda feel bad...looking back on it. Poor Jacob. I uh...hope he's doing OK, wherever he is, whatever he's up to. I scared him."
(Jacob is definitely NOT doing OK, he still struggles with Giordano's "essence" and voice in his head and whatnot. Guy was a freaking Elder, after all.)
John then goes on to talk about how he'd eventually found his way back to Dr. George. John still remembers standing on that porch, shamefaced and head hung low. He was so embarrassed when he stood there.
However, Dr. George wasn't even angry or mad or disappointed. He was extraordinarily patient, kind, and understanding. He welcomed the then-Fledgling with open arms.
The little old man had an eternal spring in his step and always seemed to have a little nugget of wisdom to share.
"You have run far and wide, Fledgling. Come inside, sit, rest your body, tell me how it went. I hear our very own Elder Necromancer, Giordano, went missing recently. YOU wouldn't happen to know anything about that, would you? Come, come."
John turns his head aside, "I...really didn't deserve him, Svetlana. From there, he set me on the right path and showed me the way of the Blade of Haqim. And, well, the rest you already know, since we've talked about it before."
He sniffles and adds, "God, I hope the old man's doing OK. He's uh...I think he chose to stay in Magnolia City while I...chose to leave it all behind and try to--try to do good elsewhere."
Dr. Fateh often told his charge, "What you did, of course, is unforgivable. But Fatima still saw...something in you, Fledgling. As much as I am not a...fan of vengeance for vengeance's sake, Fatima would've been justified in leaving your exsanguinated corpse on your doorstep. Yet, she chose not to. What does this tell us, hmm?"
John remembers sheepishly replying, "That...we all deserve second chances to make amends and right our wrongs?"
The Assamite doctor merely smiled and chuckled as he put his hands behind his back and strolled around the room.
The doc looked over his shoulder and said, "Perhaps there is hope for you, Fledgling. Tomorrow night, we go to the racetrack. Your Celerity is wild- it requires some...taming, yes?"
That's pretty much it from John's side of things. He's now done. He takes a moment to compose himself and looks at his Childe, silently gauging her reaction. Svetlana sits there quietly, still listening, and nodding slowly.
"That's it, Svetlana. That's what I've um...been keeping from you. I'm sorry, I should've told you sooner."
Svetlana weakly nods, "And I am also sorry for not telling you my--"
John cuts her off, "No, no, no. You don't owe anyone an apology. What happened to you was--was truly awful. I'm sorry for what happened to you, Svetlana."
As John was busy talking about his past, what happened to Svetlana stuck to his mind throughout this heart-to-heart conversation.
For his part, he feels really guilty and bad for what his actions caused to happen to poor Ladonna Hughes. Now, John's trying so hard to be a better man, a good man. To make amends and do right by those who matter.
That's the man that Svetlana has come to know in her 5 years of Unlife. John Suarez, a product of the tumultuous 1960s, exchanged his pen (typewriter) for the sword. It's usually the other way around, innit?
Maybe there's an opportunity for him to make amends, do good, and Judge the unjust. He's certainly taken the effort, contritely and sincerely.
As for Svetlana Bobrov, she has suffered so much, so much more than he ever has or likely ever will. She does wonder, what became of the other 3 men who raped her on that horrible evening?
She's seen Obed Gallant, who now commands and leads the Unit 8211 branch here in the UAE.
What of the other 3 men and that 1 woman? Did they fall down the steps and break their necks? Did they die early? Did they (at the very least) get caught doing something similar, and stopped from doing so?
Sadly, no, no, and no.
1 of the men is now someone who works with the UKLFI (the UK Lawyers For Israel). Go figure.
The 2nd guy is, not surprisingly, an important Rabbi in Australia closely associated with the notorious Settler movement back in Israel. Not surprising.
The 3rd guy is a CEO of a biopharma company, worth billions of dollars, that's connected to the notorious Pentex Group.
And last but not least, that woman who was there, recording the whole vile thing and cheering the boys on. Here's the kicker: she's part of an Israeli feminist organization. That's...such despicable irony.
Or maybe it's par for the course, considering it's fuckin' Israel. Scum like that are pretty representative of the only democracy in the Middle East (tm).
To this very night, they remain unpunished for their crimes. And it's people like Svetlana (and countless others) that are left with that horrific trauma, misery, and despair.
All the while, those who caused it are living it up and have even more money, power, and success than ever before. Their wealth and influence continue to grow. They're getting away with it. The world isn't fair sometimes; you learn that shit pretty early in life.
Svetlana doesn't say a word. She merely sits there, looking at her Sire. She leans forward and hugs him, red tears rolling down both their cheeks.
She whispers into his ear, "I forgive you, John. I--I forgive you. You--you are now a--a good man, John."
Svetlana knows that what happened to Ladonna Hughes was a horrible tragedy, inexcusable, even. And it's likely that no one will ever truly know why Fatima chose to spare John and not the others.
She knows that her Sire has done much good in her short time in this world that she now finds herself in, this world of darkness and secrets.
John hugs her tightly and replies, "And you're...a good person, too. Thank you for everything, Svetlana. Thanks for...understanding."
Svetlana breaks the hug and wipes the bloody tears off her face, leaving red smudges across her cheeks. She smiles tightly, "I am here for you, as you are also here for me. That is...good, yes? Watching each other's backs, like you said, no?"
John nods, "Of course, Svetlana. You can always count on me. And, um, I'll be there for you, too. We'll be there for each other. We have to, especially now."
He takes a moment to look around his Childe's Haven, "I know it was hard- you telling me what happened to you- but it had to be done, it had to be said. It took a lotta strength and courage from your end, huh?"
Svetlana turns her gaze downward, "And your story...is not easy, no? All that baggage? Do you think Fatima has forgiven you?"
"I haven't seen her or heard from her ever since she left that night. I'd like to think that she has, but I'm not gonna fool myself into thinking that."
He then shrugs and adds, "It's been over, what, 50 years? I honestly doubt we'll cross paths again, even if we wanted to. But I'd still like to think that she has for--forgiven me. She had so much anger and resentment towards me, but...she spared me all the same. Why?"
John sighs and continues, "I mean, I don't know if I've truly forgiven myself for what happened. But what I think or how I 'feel' doesn't really matter. It shouldn't. This is my wrongdoing, and I've got an eternity to make up for it. That's a...that's a pretty long time, heh."
"Da. Is very long time. Do you think it will--" Svetlana's voice cracks and her lips tremble. She closes her eyes and takes a deep breath. Her dead heart aches as she thinks back to those terrible memories, "--get better for all of us?"
John can see that his Childe is still in pain. He slowly and gently places his cold hand on top of hers, "I dunno, Svetlana. Maybe it does, maybe it doesn't. At the very least, I hope things don't get any worse than they are right now."
A sincere answer, all things considered.
Svetlana accepts it with a quick nod, "Hmm. Is much to think about. You promise me, John?"
"Promise you what?"
"That you will help me to Diablerize someone when time is right?" there's a dark glint in her green eyes. She's dead serious. A little too serious, perhaps.
"If that's what you want to do, I'm right there with you, Svetlana. When it happens, we'll do it and I'll guide you through it- gently this time. If it doesn't happen, then we can wait; we're Kindred after all, heh. When you're ready, I'm ready."
"It--it will be like you said the last time- unforgettable experience, da?"
John smiles from ear to ear and nods his head as way of response.
Svetlana then stands up from her sofa. She wipes some more red tears off her face, "Thank you, John. Spasibo. You have--you have been good Sire to me, a very good one. Good teacher and trainer as well. Thank you for everything."
John smiles and gets up, "And uh...thanks for listening, Svetlana. I know I've probably altered your perception of me as this really great guy, but I--I wasn't always this way. It took a lot of sharp turns to get to where I am now."
She merely gives her Sire a weak smile in response. The pair exchange pleasantries, and she wishes him a goodnight. As John is leaving her Haven, he feels...lighter, but only by a bit. He still has a ton of weight on his shoulders, but he's glad that it's been shared.
On his way back to his Haven, he puts his earphones deep in his ear and puts on some Kristin Mainhart tunes to listen to on the long walk back.
John knows that it'll take some time to get over all of this, but he hopes that he's made a good start tonight. Maybe 1 night, he can look back and find the answers to questions about his Sire that still linger in his mind.
Until that night comes, he'll just have to do good and keep in touch with his Humanity.
As for Svetlana Bobrov, she lays back on her couch and just sits there, silently thinking about what the future holds for her and those closest to her- John, Samir, Zeina, Abdullah, Saoirse, Camille, Paul, Tommy, Garth, and whoever else she'll cross paths with in her Unlife.
She hopes that things will get better not just for her, but for all of them. That is the hope and dream that they'll cling to.
That is the hope that'll keep 'em going?
But, where to? Would they even survive? After tonight's skirmishes, the SI thugs are now on full alert and are scouring the entire UAE for the blank bodies. No stone is to be left unturned.
It's gonna be a bumpy ride in the coming nights, no doubt about it!
As the sun is about to rise, Svetlana makes her way to her bed and gets settled in. She feels heavy and sluggish. Still sore from the battle earlier in the evening, she groans as she slowly lays down.
Her last thoughts before the day-sleep embraces her is on her Sire- from their first time ever meeting after her post-Embrace Frenzy, their sparring matches, his training lessons, to the night where she had confided in him- this very night.
Tonight's conversation about their broken and troubling histories- how far they've both come, how far they still have to go, and what the future holds for them.
If there's any future at all...
As for John Suarez, his mind drifts to that song that Ladonna had sung on that night. It was something she herself had written, apparently. Before she could name it or get it released, well...you know.
The lyrics loop in his mind as he is dragged into the welcoming abyss of the day-sleep.
"I've forgotten you / I never think of you / The way you walked, the way you talked, the things you used to say."
By the time the sun rears its head, the last lines of the song ring out in his mind as he completely taken in, "Oh, what a lie! / I shall think of you / Think of you / Think of you / Till I die."
That's when the Assamite Neonate finally slips away for the day-sleep to claim him, his body as still and cold as a corpse.
Svetlana's eyes shut and her body goes completely under; her final thoughts are of the Wraith that is bound to her- little Chloe.
And with that, the Kindred in this particular corner of the globe are fast asleep.
Chapter 17: Clash
As the sun relentlessly beams down on the gilded city below, the Kindred continue to slumber the day away. The sun bathes the city in a golden-yellow glow. Cars and large trucks zoom about the streets. The city's skyline shimmers and sparkles in the early morning sunlight.
The people of this land are hustling and bustling about their daily routines and duties. They are going about their business in the UAE as they would do in any other given day.
Meanwhile, the Emirati authorities are doing their best to cover up all the chaos and destruction that occurred last night. The papers report some fires near the parking lot, nothing to worry about, folks! Just some old cars catching fire!
Hey, look, shiny, why don't you forget all about it, habibi?
After all, you came all the way here to spend (waste) dirhams on useless and meaningless trinkets, didn't you?
There are now even more questions than answers. All the while, the Kindred sleep in peace. Well, most of them do at least. Some, however, find themselves lulled in by dreams.
Dreams of the past and present, dreams of hopes and wishes, dreams of things that have been and dreams of things that might be.
John thinks of the man who mentored him, showed him a better way was possible for all- Kindred, mortal, or otherwise: Dr. George Fateh.
John would often say, "Fatima might be my Sire, but Dr. George will always be someone I consider as one."
Apart from being 1 (of the many) founding members of the Blade of Haqim, Dr. Fateh taught John a lot about the plight of the Palestinian people and how the Blade should strive to help them in any way possible, by any means necessary.
"We are not just warriors, Fledgling. We are scholars, physicians, poets, writers, teachers, singers, philosophers, and more. We are...a people. A people that seek a better world, Fledgling- a more just world. That is what we seek, something you must always remember, now that you are 1 of us."
John's blurry memory of Dr. George Fateh then fades away as the abyssal nothingness of the day-sleep continues to hold him in its cold embrace. The rest of the Kindred do likewise. They sleep the day away.
Dr. George Fateh fled to Magnolia City, alongside with Fatima and a few other Blade of Haqim members because Israel's actions were getting more and more brutal as the nights went on. It was getting perilous for them to stay and fight against the then-still-young Zionist entity.
With sanguine tears running down their ashen faces, they fled Palestine. Staying there, would in all likelihood, incur even greater wrath of their enemies, be they Kine or Kindred.
Some fled to faraway lands whilst others chose to stay and fight. Other Blade members opted for countries that were closer- stories say that they even walked all the way to their intended destinations.
There were even Garou in Palestine, but the Israelis either had their own Garou (or a whole load of silver munitions and deadly weapons) to wipe them out or send them fleeing for their lives.
Dr. Fateh himself, despite being a doctor, had done his fair share of Judging. It was said that he killed 10 mortal members of the Haganah (precursor to the IDF) in the blink of an eye. He had quite the mastery over the Celerity Discipline.
Not surprisingly, this earned the Assamite doctor quite the reputation amongst friend and foe alike. The Israeli Kindred were reluctant to call a Blood Hunt on him, as it would jeopardize their relationship with their mortal counterparts and expose their true nature as bloodsuckers.
After all, the Masquerade still had to be upheld, somehow.
Regardless, Kindred or Kine, the Zionists were absolutely hellbent on ethnically cleansing Palestine.
In due time, that great and mighty star of heat begins its dramatic descent into the horizon. The city is bathed in deep-red hues. As the sun slowly sinks below the horizon, the golden-yellow light gradually shifts to a pink-orange hue.
The stars start to peek out from the twilight sky. The moon begins its climb towards the heavens. Night falls over Al-Kushraf once more.
As the last rays of sunlight disappear, the night's shadows grow longer. Night lights buzz and beam on across the city. The air is warm and crisp as the darkness begins to envelop the entire region.
The nightlife here is just as lively as it is during the day. More so than Dubai, apparently. The bars, nightclubs, restaurants, and other venues of entertainment are alive with warm and sweaty bodies. The streets are full of pedestrians, people on the move, cars and trucks zipping by, and more.
Tried and hunched-over office drones meander onto an already full bus. Broken migrant construction workers trudge past a row of brightly lit restaurants. Loud and boisterous partying students stumble down the street, laughing and singing in Spanish.
As the people of this gilded cage go about their lives and whatnot, the Kindred begin to wake up and stir from their slumber, each with their own plans and tasks for the evening.
The SI thugs are on high alert after last night's skirmishes. Their eyes and ears are wide open and ready for anything that might come their way. They're still no closer to finding out who the blank bodies are, or where they are hiding, but the hunt continues, nonetheless.
Patrols are doubled and Commander Gallant logs on for a chat with his superiors at the Israeli High Command (ILHC). He sits at his desk, wipes some crumbs off his uniform, and clears his throat before initiating the secretive text chat.
OBED: "Commander Obed Gallant reporting in."
ILHC: "What is the situation, Commander Gallant? We've just received the reports of your Lieutenants. These latest developments are not pleasing, to say the least."
OBED: "I admit that last night's attacks were a failure on our part. They split us up- intentionally. We are now working on finding out how these blank bodies were able to do so."
ILHC: "It has something to do with those SD cards they've been looting and salvaging from the corpses of our fallen heroes."
OBED: "Yes, that appears to be the case. Lt. Davidai wisely suggested installing worms deep in our devices. We're also looking into our own ranks, to see if any of them could be compromised."
ILHC: "See that you do so. It seems like the enemy knows far too much about us than they should."
OBED: "Yes, it should be the other way around."
ILHC: "How many did you lose last night?"
OBED: "The exact number is in the reports. You will forgive me if I do not remember it. Regardless, every one of them was a true hero of Am Yisrael. They will not be forgotten, I assure you."
ILHC: "You had better not. And you had better make sure that their sacrifice isn't in vain. Platitudes can only go so far, Commander Gallant."
OBED: "Of course, I understand. I won't fail again. I would be able to quadruple our capabilities if our operating budget for this sacred operation was increased."
ILHC: "That's simply out of the question, Commander Gallant. There's a reason why we chose this particular base in that particular city. It's supposed to be well-hidden. If we were to suddenly increase our operating budget, that would be sure to draw some...unwanted attention, you understand, yes?"
OBED: "I do. Very well then. Any news on additional, outside, 3rd party funding at least?"
ILHC: "No, our partners in the Coalition continue to deny any and all requests, especially from Unit 8211. They're not happy with the fact that we get results while they still concern themselves with the petty intricacies of so-called 'international law'."
OBED: "What of the Society of Leopold? I know they are reckless fanatics, but they have resources, influence, and money. I am sure they would be more than happy to help."
ILHC: "That's also out of the question, Commander Gallant. We cannot allow them access to our own resources and gathered intelligence. Who knows what they'll do if we were to give them even an inch? They are too unpredictable and not worth the hassle."
OBED: "Understood. Then I shall endeavor to keep things within the budget. As for our Mossad and Aman assets, we could use with a few more here in the UAE, especially in the capital city."
ILHC: "Negative. The reports coming out of Abu Dhabi are nothing short of disturbing, Commander Gallant."
OBED: "Yes, that would appear to be the case. The reports mentioned dead bodies floating and suspended in midair- our people. Somehow, the blank bodies or other malicious entities are utilizing some form of vile magic to keep us away from Abu Dhabi. I do not like it 1 bit."
ILHC: "We share your concern, Commander Gallant. Until then, focus on the threat in Al-Kushraf. At least your team was able to prevent sensitive data from being leaked out. Did you at least recover the bodies of the clandestine assets from Abu Dhabi?"
OBED: "Unfortunately, no. I dispatched a small team, but they all rapidly aged, withered, and died on the spot when the tips of their fingers made contact with the floating corpses. Others were savagely torn to shreds. Such horrors!"
ILHC: "Abu Dhabi is a lost cause, then. Given your Unit's recent encounters, Al-Kushraf remains your topmost priority. Are we clear, Commander Gallant?"
OBED: "Yes, we are. But with our recent losses, additional help would be greatly appreciated."
ILHC: "Do you doubt us, Commander Gallant? We have provided you and your team with what they need- do not overstep your boundaries, Commander. Know your place, soldier."
OBED: "I sincerely apologize. But the costs of moving the bodies of our fallen heroes- Am Yisrael's valiant sons and daughters- is a bit higher than I expected. They are not just corpses; they are the protectors and defenders of the Jewish Nation."
ILHC: "Indeed, you make a valid point, Commander Gallant. That being said, we are in talks with someone closely associated with the Pentex Group. They certainly have funding; it's just a matter of negotiating and strong-arming them to see to our needs and shared goals, where they may intersect."
OBED: "I have heard many things about them- some good, some bad. I have credible intelligence reports that state that Pentex has been infiltrated by blank bodies. Despite this, I am confident they can help us...provided they let us 'help' them with their blank body problem."
ILHC: "Very wise of you, Commander Gallant. That is an angle that we are playing in the ongoing discussions. Now, unless there are any more pressing concerns, you are dismissed. Keep us informed and may HaShem be with you on your sacred task. We will be watching you closely."
OBED: "May HaShem watch over you as well. Thank you for putting your trust in me. As God is my witness, I will not fail. B'ezrat HaShem, every blank body from here to Fujairah shall be wiped off the map."
The chat ends, the messages automatically self-delete. Commander Obed Gallant, that filthy rapist, puts his head in his hands and sighs deeply. He rubs his face and leans all the way back in his chair, feeling the pressure of leadership (especially now) get to him.
With an exasperated tone, he remarks, "Ugh. So much pressure, so little time to myself. It's hard, sometimes. But God is with me. As are the best and brightest of Am Yisrael. What more does a man need to succeed in the face of such odds, hmm?"
The Kindred of this region begin their nightly rituals, starting with...groaning and waking up from a day-long sleep.
Absalom, the Malkavian Elder, stirs in the last moments of his day-sleep. As he's coming around, he feels his mind drawn to...
...that place. The Malkavian Madness Network. Over the past few nights, he has been speaking to someone who is not quite "in" the Cobweb but was a Malkavian in her Unlife. She met Final Death a decade ago in Flimont City, USA.
However, instead of "assimilating" into the Tapestry, Madeline chose a VERY different path. Still, she somehow managed to find her way into Absalom's head.
She still sees, thinks, dreams, and feels- and talks, too!
Absalom's mind is teeming with voices and sounds. Creepy carnival music plays from surround sound speakers unseen. Voices of all kinds, ages, creeds, genders, and ethnicities cry out, some in despair and pain, others in madness, and a select few in laughter.
"I'm a bowl of rattlesnakes!" some nasally guy calls out while huffing what appears to be green fumes.
Another dude with a deep-fried Southern accent growls, "No nerves in your brain. S'all in your head. A--All in your head. So many...colors--"
The Malkavian Primogen grits himself and tunes out whatever further rambling tries to pelt and pierce his psyche. He pushes through the cacophony of discordant noise, like he has done throughout his very long, centuries-spanning Unlife.
The Primogen focuses on the voice he has been speaking to for the past few nights, Madeline Stephenson, that's her name. She has (and had) her own issues, no doubt. But she's...there. And that's all Absalom needs right now.
Eventually, he feels her presence. Computer wires, whirring noises of machinery, and screens- so many screens bright and alive. All form a vague composite of how Mauve looked like before she got turned to ash.
Absalom can barely make out much, but he sees blue eyes, once wild, now calm and collected and accepting of whatever "fate" this is. They're glazed over a bit. Her bottom lip trembles and she mumbles to herself in some weird, robotic language.
"St--stock market up--up by 18% this past y--year. No, month. Yes, month. Uh--uh, bonds down by 0.00165%. Anomaly. Mmm. Wait--wait. Need to--to...fix. Um..."
Even till now, Absalom can't tell what exactly is wrong with his fellow Malk- her voice takes on a more synthetic and clipped tone. Her blue eyes are all-too glassy and unfocused. The wires feel like they're attached to her head, her spine, and other parts of her body.
Absalom extends his mental feelers and senses nothing but code, data, and other digital trappings coursing through her body. Where Vitae would've once flowed, all he feels instead is technology unlike any other. Almost, godlike in a way.
She has been talking to him throughout their conversations, telling him her story (both in mortal life as some kind of financial reporter in Kansas City, USA and her Unlife in Flimont City), talking about things that happened to her, and her troubles and problems and such.
Absalom, being an Elder of low Humanity, simply shrugs most of it off as the ways of mortals, but Madeline's problems have sorta struck a chord in his shriveled and still heart, if only for a moment.
After a few seconds, Absalom calls out, "Hello, Mauve."
Madeline hitches and her pupils widen slightly when she hears that name, "Ah! You--You're back. It--it's Madeline, Absalom. I--I don't wanna be reminded of--of Mauve Lilac."
Madeline tries to focus beyond her mental space, the "divine" cybernetic landscape where she now finds herself and sees the face of the person who had called out to her. But there is...nothing. Only static and glitching out.
Absalom equably says, "I am here, Madeline...Stephenson. Tune out all else and focus yourself...focus yourself on the sound of my voice alone, Child of Malkav, for you are still his Childe, his Blood. Even Final Death and the choices you made will not change that."
Madeline makes something resembling a gulping sound and does as the Elder tells her. The many and numerous voices in the background slowly fade away, bit by bit, and are replaced with only the sound of Absalom's deep and authoritative voice.
Madeline finds her mind slowly clearing, and her eyes are becoming more and more focused, "Whoa. Hi, Absalom. How--how are you tonight? It is...night where you are, right?"
"Yes, Childe. The sun has already fallen. I can feel my body stirring from its state of rest. And yourself, what...time is it for you?"
"Yeah, I--I feel pretty good. My head feels...tighter and clearer, I guess. As for what time it is, well...it's all of it, really. I can feel it ALL- so deeply. Do you have any idea what that feels like?"
Absalom simply nods his head. The Malkavian Primogen has had his fair share of Unlife experience, even if it is different compared to most Kindred.
Madeline then inquires, "So, how are things down there? UAE, right?"
Absalom calmly replies, "The forces of the Second Inquisition have been drawn out- now, we must fight them. The Banu Haqim have already slain many, as I have been told, and we continue to make our own progress as well. Why do you ask?"
Madeline lets out a grating sigh that reverberates through the inside of Absalom's head, "Oh, y'know, well..."
"Yes, I know. However, the Inquisitors here are vastly different from those who--"
She cuts him off, "No. No, please. Do--Don't, Absalom. Just don't. I--"
Absalom presses on, "Why fret about the past? What has happened has happened. As tragic and unfortunate as it was, it cannot be undone. Focus only on that which is in front of you, Childe."
"I...I can't help but wonder, though, y'know."
"Wonder what?"
"N--Never mind. I still remember, Absalom. Those--those flames--my body--so bad, hurts--!"
Absalom gently shushes her, "Shh, shh. Do not dwell on such unpleasant memories, Child of Malkav. You were...simply a pawn in the schemes of a small-minded and entitled Kine. But now, focus only on that which is before us."
Madeline makes some gulping sounds, "Uh-huh. Mm-hmm. Sure, sure. E--Easier said than done, of course. Do you um...need something, Absalom?"
Absalom answers, "I feel, Madeline, that your unique abilities will be of use in our fight against the forces of the Second Inquisition here in Al-Kushraf."
With determined resolve, Madeline agrees, "Uh-huh. Y--Yeah, sure. I--I'll help. Anything to stop these assholes from hurting any more of us. You name it, and I'll help."
The Elder Primogen smiles and replies, "Good, good. For now, I advise you to wait. Stay put, as they say. In due time, you will come to our aid...Madeline Stephenson. Until then, we should perhaps get to know each other better."
"Oh, I forgot. How's Mr. Bean, your adopted Childe, correct? How come he doesn't come in here?"
"Mr. Bean is on his own path, his own journey. He has his own destiny to fulfill. I merely aid him in whatever way I can. As for why he is not 'here', his young mind is still not strong enough to endure the deeper recesses of the Weavery. His mental resolve requires some work; I shall have to aid my charge with that, yes."
"Oh, yeah. Yeah, I get that. Absolutely. This place ain't for everyone, heh. So, uh...how have you been?"
"I have been well, yes..."
The Elder and the long-gone woman spend a few minutes discussing mundane matters about this and that. Afterwards, Absalom's eyes open and he grunts as he gets up from his bed. He looks around his barely furnished penthouse bedroom, shrugs, stretches, and sighs as he makes his way out of his bedroom.
The sun has fallen completely by now. The night is young, and the city is alive with activity. The neon lights of the city's nightscape beam in Absalom's vision, illuminating the penthouse in a reddish glow.
Mr. Bean, the bleached hair Malkavian, is standing near the window and mumbling something under his breath. Absalom places his hand on his charge's shoulder and looks at the city below.
From all the way up here, vehicles zoom past in a blur, scores people flock up and down the sidewalks, and others have found their way into various clubs, nightclubs, and bars nearby. The nightlife here is thriving.
Mr. Bean licks his lips and bares his fangs, "Mmm, easy pickings, huh, Abs?"
"That is 1 way of seeing things, yes. Go, ready yourself, the night ahead is long and who knows what it holds."
Mr. Bean quickly scampers to his room to prepare himself. As he does that, Absalom shakes his head and slowly makes his way to the shower. It's a fairly quick one.
Mr. Bean takes longer, and his singing can be heard from all the way outside Absalom's bedroom. Enhanced vampiric senses and all. Absalom tunes out whatever contemporary gospel stuff his charge is belting out from his bathroom.
Once both Seers are done, they make their way out into the city below. Their unceasing Hunger gnaws at them. Their inner Beasts get restless at being denied thick, red satiation for so long!
Easy pickings...easy pickings abound in this city!
The nightlife is going strong in Al-Kushraf, with the bars, clubs, and eateries full to the brim with warm, vibrant, sweaty, and sometimes drunk patrons. Also, lots of dark corners to get frisky...or in the case of these 2 Lunatics, feed.
The duo weave in and out of the various crowds and pedestrians, looking for a suitable neck or wrist (or anywhere really) to bite into. They're also sensible enough to lick the fang wounds after feeding.
Somewhere else in this gilded cage...
Gallagher's Haven is on the 18th floor (or 28 floors). It's a rather wide apartment with 2 bedrooms, 2 bathrooms, a very large living room, a small dining room, a kitchen, and a balcony. It's barely furnished, but everything's neat and tidy, only because there's not much to keep neat and tidy.
The ex-Sheriff of Dubai is sitting in his living room, on a single seater sofa. He's naked from the waist down and there's a mortal woman in her early-20s sucking his dick while he plays a video game on the PS3.
Gallagher grunts and groans as he pushes her head down, forcing his semi-erect cock deeper and deeper down her throat. Her eyes roll to the back of her head, her cheeks go red, and the sucking sounds are drowned out by the sounds of action and gunfire coming from the wall-mounted TV.
With a hand still on the PS3 controller, he then pulls her hair and growls, "Suck it...oh, yeah! C'MON! Deeper! More! Urrrgh!"
His junk twitches and throbs as she continues to suck him off. The woman tries to match his rhythm and pushes her head all the way down, barely feeling the tip of his peepee reach the back of her throat.
Vampires do have trouble...getting it up. Especially violent ones with such low Humanity.
Gallagher, feeling frustrated, holds his PS3 controller, focuses on his game, and thrusts his hips up and down. With each thrust, her head bobs up and down and she swallows more of his cock.
This attempt at a blowjob goes on for a few more minutes. After a while, the woman pulls back, face sticky with sweat and bloody precum (every liquid in a vamp's body is blood, yes, even THAT ONE).
She's panting and her body is shaking. She breathes out unsteadily, "I'm so fucking close, babe. How--how about you go down on me next, huh?" She has an American accent, thin body, brown hair, and hazel eyes.
Gallagher is also panting, but it's more to do with the shooting sequence in his game. He ignores her and mashes buttons, moves analogue sticks, and pushes the left and right triggers a couple of times.
The woman is still waiting for her answer, her hand on his trouser snake. She's rubbing it affectionately while looking up at the man, licking her lips, and breathing heavily.
Gallagher eventually glowers at her, "The fuck for?! Look, I--I got a guest coming here soon, so...beat it, alright?"
The mortal chick clicks her tongue, shakes her head, and rises up. Gallagher shoos her to the side as she's blocking his view, "Hey! Get the fuck outta my way! I'm playin' a game here!"
"Alright, alright, OK. Sheesh. It's just a stupid video game, babe. But you were absolutely gonna do me, right? Like, go down on me and all?" she pouts as she moves aside and bats her eyes seductively.
Gallagher snorts, "Um...no. That sounds kinda gay. Honestly, if you want your taco licked, go play around with another girl or something. The man receives, the chick gives, that's how it's been for-fucking-ever, so why change it, huh?"
The woman shrugs and begins to pick up her clothes from off the floor, "What?! Come on, babe. We're like...kinda in a relationship or whatever. And I'd like for us to--"
Gallagher shushes her and leans forward as he goes on with his incessant button-mashing. Sounds and lights emanate from the screen as the player seems to get the final kill shot on the opponents.
"Shut up, will ya?! You're getting on my nerves! UGHRAH! That fucking light! So bright!" He recoils and shields his eyes.
She furrows her eyebrows, "What??"
The lighting in Gallagher's Haven is quite low (Setite Clan Bane and all that), so Gallagher recoils and hisses when a big explosion of light and sound comes out from the TV.
He then calms down and mutters, "Nothing. Just a...hmmph, never mind."
Gallagher pauses his game and tosses his controller aside. He looks at his girlfriend get dressed. They only met quite recently. He smirks as he watches her slip into her brown crop top and black shorts.
She sees him and asks, "What?"
"Nothing. I just love watching you get dressed, that's all."
She rolls her eyes and smiles, "Ugh, that's so lame. If only you got undressed tonight, Ewan...is your silly video game more important than me?"
Gallagher snickers and shrugs at her valid question.
She takes a pillow and tosses it at him, "Hey! Hey, come on! That's not fair, Ewan! I like you, OK!"
"All's fair in love and war, babe. Just watching you get dressed is turning me on so bad, y'know what I mean?"
The Setite growls and licks his lips, "Round 2, babe?"
The girlfriend objects, "No. I have homework, lots and lots and lots of it. You think being a student at The American University in Dubai is a laughing matter?"
Gallagher sniffs and points out, "Yeah, well this ain't Dubai, babe. It's the next city over, heh."
She rolls her eyes and sighs, "Yes, Ewan, I know that. I'm only here for a semester. After that, I--well, I really haven't thought about the future much, if you want the truth."
"Yeah, you're young and beautiful, and, most importantly, you know your way around a cock. What more could a guy want, huh?"
She folds her arms and glares at her vampire boyfriend, "Personality, being on the same wavelength, hobbies that aren't just video games, and so on, Ewan. But I don't see any of that here."
Gallagher shrugs, "I ain't the romantic type, babe. Blame it on my...shitty upbringing if ya want, heh. But if you were to come by later, I could show you a good time."
The mortal does a wide gesture around the bland Haven of this Serpent, "Well, why don't you start by decorating this place, huh? Spice it up a bit, throw some ornaments and the like, y'know, make it more like a home. A proper one, not just some hole for you to sleep in, jerk off, play dumb video games, and do the other silly stuff. Get some cutesy things and all."
Gallagher's face contorts into a scowl, "That sounds gay. What do you think I am, some flamboyant fashion designer type? Jesus, Edith, get a fucking grip on things. It's my pad, paid for with my own fucking money. No chintzy bullshit needed...or wanted. And don't think of buying shit like that for me, alright?"
Edith exhales sharply and rolls her eyes a little, "OK, Ewan." She ruffles her hair and prepares to take her leave.
Gallagher's naked ass remains glued to the couch. He picks up his controller, un-pauses his game, and continues where he left off.
Edith turns around to see what he's doing. She raises a brow, "Um...seriously? You're not gonna walk me down, say bye, gimme a kiss, nothing?"
The Setite dryly replies, "I called you here for a quickie, not a date, Edith. Besides, I thought women didn't fuck with that chivalry stuff anymore. That's what's all the hipsters are saying."
"Whatever. Well, have a good rest of night, Ewan."
"Later, Edith."
"I hope we can spend more time together soon, alright? Like, real, quality time. I--I like you, Ewan, but you need to open up to me. I wanna get to--get to know you better."
Gallagher mumbles something under his breath. He keeps playing his game and ignores the woman as she makes her way out.
After a while, Gallagher gets up to take a quick shower. The cold water pelts his nude body, and he hisses as it wakes him up and stiffens him up.
He steps out, dries himself off, and wraps a towel around his waist. His phone is on his bedside table. He checks his messages and finds nothing of importance.
Being a highly paid (one might say overly paid) security consultant and all, Gallagher is always on top of things and is quite knowledgeable about identifying and neutralizing potential threats to his clients' wellbeing and safety.
He certainly has background experience as a Pinkerton goon, but that is not something he can put on his résumé, for obvious reasons.
He has 4 phones- 2 for work, 1 for emergencies, and 1 for personal use (barely used). He picks up 1 of his work phones and scrolls through it. He winces as the light from the screen hurts him a little.
"Jesus, why do they make these fucking things so bright?! Grrrr."
With no new messages, texts, or missed calls, Gallagher tosses his work phone aside, rubs his hands together, and goes back to his PS3. He throws himself on the couch, picks up the controller, and goes back to his game.
As the game goes on, he hears a knock on the door.
Gallagher looks away from the TV screen, blinks rapidly, and calls out, "IT'S OPEN!"
Seth pushes the door open. He's dressed in a brown suit with a yellow shirt. He's wearing yellow-tinted shades. He holds his trademark magical, emerald-eyed snake head cane in his hands.
"Oh, hey! Glad you could make it, Seth! C'mon in, buddy!" He motions for his fellow Setite to come and sit down.
Edwin, Seth's Ghoul, follows his master inside. His head is lowered, and he's dressed in a plain windbreaker and jeans. A pair of size-12 Crocs is on his feet.
The High Priest drags his feet along the carpeted flooring. He twirls his snake head cane, strokes the emerald eyes, and looks around Gallagher's Haven.
Gallagher, with his dead eyes still glued to the telly, inquires, "Like what you see?"
Seth plainly responds, "You've done well for yourself, Ewan."
Edwin merely nods his head and stands in the corner like the good and devout Ghoul that he is. He has an uneasy look on his face, but that's somewhat concealed by the lack of lighting and the fact that Gallagher is looking at the screen.
Gallagher makes a brash gesture, "C'mon, c'mon, sit down. Sit down. You too, chocolate milk! I don't like it when people stand around, looking all awkward and shit."
Edwin stifles a sigh and sits next to his Domitor. Seth leans his head back, removes his glasses, and looks up at the ceiling.
After a few seconds, Seth remarks, "You're quite away from the city center, aren't you?"
"Yeah, sure. What of it?" Gallagher's strong fingers mash the buttons with such intensity, Edwin can't help but wince and avert his eyes.
The High Priest is unfazed by Gallagher's apparent rage. He continues, "So, how things been, old friend? Holding the fort on your end? All good?"
"It's better than good. It's fuckin' great, man!
Seth strokes the emerald eyes of his magical cane and ponders on something for a moment. Eventually, he asks, "Was somebody here before us? I...smell something. Sweet, feminine...mortal? Are you seeing someone new? So soon already?"
Gallagher scoffs and mocks, "Oh, fuck off. My previous catch was a nuisance. I lost control and hit her. She died soon after. Boohoo, waa-waa. Hrmf, whatever. This chick's also a mortal, yeah, but she, oof, she knows her way around a sausage, lemme tell ya that much, haha!"
Seth's eyebrows shoot up, but he doesn't react much. Edwin frowns at his Ewan's crude and loutish words.
The Ghoul shakes his head and sighs a little louder than expected. Saying anything could incur Ewan's wrath, which is what nobody wants.
Gallagher picks up on this and barks out a laugh, "Hey, Edwin! You got an opinion, you keep it stuck in your piehole. Alright?"
Edwin simply glares balefully at the ex-Sheriff and looks away. Seth interjects, "Don't worry, Gallagher. Edwin knows his place. Isn't that right, Edwin?"
The Ghoul understands what his master is hinting at. He begrudgingly apologizes, "I am sorry, Mr. Gallagher. How you choose to conduct your own affairs is your own business, not mine. Please forgive me for my insubordination. It was...not my intention." The last part drips with insincerity.
Gallagher scoffs, "Whatever. So, anyway, you both had a reason for dropping by, yeah?"
Seth folds 1 leg over the other and nods, "Yes. When we last spoke, you seemed almost...envious about John's cordial relationship with his Childe, Svetlana. Should we talk more about that?"
Gallagher pushes the controller's analogue sticks as fast as possible. The TV screen blips and beeps as the character shoots faster and faster and moves around with great speed.
"Maybe. Why?"
The Typhonist High Priest shrugs, "I think there's more to it than that."
"Hm. Like?"
"You're jealous, Ewan. Jealous that your relationship with your own Sire soured when you were told of your true nature, not as a Brujah as you were led to believe, but as a Follower of Set."
Gallagher grunts and snarls and digs his thumb deep into the D-Pad.
Seth goes on, "You were bitter and angry about that fact, and you lashed out- almost immediately. It was your own way of processing being deceived and...misled."
"Hrgfh. Yeah, I guess. I just wish things didn't end like that between me and my fucking Sire. But in the end, I fucking pummeled that motherfucker into a goddamn Torpor from which he'll NEVER EVER wake up. If he does, then so help me, I'll make sure to drag him out to the great BBQ in the sky and leave him there to get fucking cooked."
Seth nods, "I understand. On some level, you could say I...sympathize with you. It wasn't easy. But that's all in the past now. And look at you, look at how far you've come since then, hmm? You've come up in our secret world while others have fallen by the wayside. And there are many more greater things in store for you, my friend."
Gallagher pauses his game and lets out a long, drawn out sigh, "Hmmmmm, yeah. I'm looking forward to whatever these 'greater things' are, man. You've been good to me so far. Real good. And I won't ever forget that."
He stops for a moment and looks down at his carpeted floor, "Yeah, I am a bit jealous of the way that half-Mexican and that Soviet chick get along with each other. When I was still a Fledgling, that's how I thought it was gonna be with me and my Sire, but it just...didn't turn out that way."
He grunts and adds, "Not that I'm surprised. I mean, the guy was a Setite. He's just as rotten and full of shit as the rest of us."
Seth dismissively waves his hands, "Ah, come now, Gallagher. They might call us the Clan of Lies, but that's only because there's no such thing as an objective truth or a complete lie. Truths are merely interpretations, VERY subjective ones. Our minds are not perfect, and we are not perfect either. There is no such thing as a pure form of reality or a pure form of anything else, as you are well aware."
"Hmm, sure, whatever. That makes sense, I guess."
"But we're also called the Clan of Faith. I personally find that...interesting."
"Faith? Yep, sure. Not that I'm not into most of that, but Typhon is different, right?"
"Of course, Typhon is different. Apep the Serpent guides us, watches over us on these nights, and shows us the way, the Path that we are to walk on. And it is our duty to obey and do as we are commanded, no questions asked. Why overcomplicate things?"
"Oh, yeah. I get that. Yeah. Totally. I've been doing those mindfulness techniques you taught me. Yeah, I uh...guess I feel a little lighter, a little quicker on my feet. Like there's some extra energy inside me, y'know what I mean?"
Seth simply nods, "I do. So, this envy, do you still feel it whenever you come across Svetlana or her Sire?"
Gallagher shrugs, "I can't help it, man. I--I just wish it were like that. Now, I'm not asking to be coddled like some sissy faggot pussy, but I wouldn't have minded that guidance and help, and y'know...HIM NOT FUCKING LYING TO ME ABOUT THE CLAN I WAS EMBRACED INTO!"
Edwin flinches and tries to make himself as small as possible, while his master remains as still and as calm as can be.
Seth blandly says, "I'm sorry, Ewan. It's done and over with now. But think of it this way: Typhon had a great plan for you. A plan beyond the Pinkertons, a plan beyond America. Everything that happened to you, for better or worse, was a part of that. You should consider yourself honored, not jealous."
Gallagher sniffs and rubs his nose, "Sure, yeah. I'm honored. I--I guess that's 1 way of looking at things. Um...silver linings and clouds and shit like that, huh?"
"Something like that, yes."
Gallagher picks up his controller and goes back to gaming. A few seconds later, a bright explosion on the screen causes the 2 Setites to hiss and shield their eyes from the sheer intensity of the bright lights and loud sounds.
Even Edwin winces, but only slightly.
Seth grunts and groans, "Ugh, Ewan. A little warning and a heads-up would be appreciated. That was like staring into the sun. What--what even is this?"
Gallagher blinks a few times and answers, "It's the fucking PlayStation 3, man! PS3! Bought this baby with my own hard-earned money, heh heh!"
Seth sighs, "Hmm, yes, PS3. I heard they were coming out with a new one."
Gallagher's hands are already back on the controller. He pushes buttons as fast as his fingers can go, "Oh, really? I should check that out."
Seth suddenly remembers something. He leans to the side and whispers something into Edwin's ear. Gallagher clears his throat, "Something the matter?"
Seth answers, "Yes. I was just reminding my Ghoul about something he needs to take care of on my behalf."
Gallagher leans back and perches an eyebrow, "Oh? Like?"
"I have distant relatives in the town I was born in- Plaintry. There are these 2 kids, Avery and Alfred. I make it a point to send them gifts every year. As far as they're concerned, I'm some distant uncle or something. Their family shares our last name- Steale."
"Huh, ain't that something. Hey, wait, Plaintry? Shit, man, that town's been in the news lately!"
Seth sighs deeply, "Yes, Gallagher. I've seen the video of those 2 women arguing with each other. Edwin showed it to me. Oh, how good ol' Plaintry has fallen...hmm, what a shame."
He adjusts his collar and continues, "Were it not for my Embrace, I would have been running that place. For all my mortal life, I was trained and groomed to take on the mantle of political leadership and authority- an honored and noble calling. It's...sad." His tone does contain some nostalgia, but it is mixed with regret and longing.
Gallagher goes to grab his personal phone. He pulls up the aforementioned video. His screen's brightness is a bit low, but the audio is clear enough. The video, titled: "Heated Small-Town Argument" has amassed about 9 million views on YouTube.
It shows 2 women, a redhead in her early-30s and a brunette in her 20s, trading fiery words with each other.
The beet-faced redhead angrily screams out: "At least I didn't have fucking con-artists for parents who lavished their little princess with all the money in...in the world, AND, AND, AND, didn't have to beg for a job every other week just to keep a roof over her head!"
Seth shakes his head and groans.
Gallagher forwards the video and narrows his eyes as the brunette declares: "Alright, alright, you want a fucking story? How about this? This bitch, this ungrateful, lowlife BITCH believes that vampires bite her at night and take her blood! Can YOU believe that?! HUH?! This supposedly grown-ass woman actually thinks that!"
This currently viral video goes on for a while longer, but Gallagher stops it there. He whistles and remarks, "That shit's a Masquerade breach, heh. Hope whoever's in that town deals with it ASAP."
Seth dryly agrees, "Hmm, indeed. But, that redhead...I can't help but feel she'll be a good fit for our Clan. She's certainly got the...energy and, dare I say, fire in her to make her a fine, albeit unruly, Follower of Set."
(Too late, heh. The redhead in question has already been Embraced into the Tremere Clan).
Gallagher furrows his brow, "Really? Do us Vipers have literally no standards at all? She seems like a crazy, hysterical, rabid, rabble-rousing bitch. Best thing to do is drain her dry."
"Hmm, I suppose that's also a valid choice, Ewan. Anyway, that is...or was the town I was born and raised in. I would've been the patriarch of a political dynasty had I not met with Rafael. Ah, the choices we make, the roads we take, the paths we go down. Who could've known the little decisions that I made in my mortal life would lead me to the Snake Clan, hmm?"
Gallagher sniffs, "Yeah, well, at least Rafael De La Cruz, weird name, was there for you. At least you knew what you were from the onset."
"Hmm, not everything was easy for me, Gallagher. Rafael was a cruel and horrible man; he was even more manipulative than usual. He tested me...or more precisely, my faith in Typhon, by putting me through various trials and tribulations."
Gallagher smirks, "Oh, yeah? Like what??"
"I don't wish to discuss it. But let's just say that it hurt- a lot."
Gallagher blows a raspberry, "Pfft, fine, fine. We're not each other's therapists anyways."
Seth scoffs, "The 'therapy' offered by the world is useless. Just another pointless fixture of modernity, like the very concepts of 'civilization', 'democracy', 'Humanity', and 'liberty'. I prefer to speak with my mind and soul and seek enlightenment and wisdom directly from Apep. Everything else is just a pointless diversion."
Gallagher wags his finger in agreement, "I hear ya. Still, do you wonder?"
"Wonder what?"
"What it would be like if we were to return back to the States? I guess I'm feeling a bit nostalgic for good ol' Pennsylvania, haha!"
Seth shakes his head and responds, "No. We're practically kings here in the UAE. Why would either of us want to go back to America? Here, our money is greater than it'll ever be. As is our power."
"Mm-hmm, I guess. Yeah, you've got a point, though. All these fucking towelheads and sand monkeys worship us like--like gods, man! They're all so desperate and hungry for a little taste of what we've got on offer that they'll do anything for us, even die and--and kill for us. And they're so gullible and stupid, they don't even realize it, hahaha!"
Gallagher is quite giddy with excitement, it would seem.
Seth smiles and concurs, "Indeed. Back in America, we'd have to get...jobs. And be forced to interact with regular people." Seth hisses when he says the word "jobs" and "people".
Gallagher guffaws, "Hah, yep! You'd probably be the manager of some shitty paper company and I'd--I'd, shit, I'd probably get into promoting small-time wrestling matches and shit. That's how my Unlife would go down! Probably, haha!"
"That's how it would've been, yes. But, no, I don't see the appeal. Here in Al-Kushraf, we have power and wealth beyond one's wildest imaginations. I have my own Herd in the compound and those...people hang on to every word I say, every command I give, everything I say."
He continues, "Back in America, I'd have to struggle for what little scraps that go around, but here? Here, I have everything at my feet and a whole lot more coming my way."
Gallagher seems impressed, "Wow. The whole world, huh? All that could ever be and then some more, huh? Sign me the fuck up. Yeah, we might be from the US of A, but this is where uh...Typhon has placed us now, right?"
"Oh, yes. And more, much, much more. I have the resources, the knowledge, the connections, and the power to do whatever I want, whenever I want. Together, we can shape Kindred Society as we see fit, Ewan. Imagine--Imagine the possibilities!"
The ex-Sheriff nods his head, "Yeah, yeah! That's right, man! But, how?"
Seth smirks in his usual smug way and states, "All in due time, old friend. All in due time. Speaking of, our campaign against the SI has hit a few bumps in the road as of late..."
Gallagher continues gaming, his thumbs maniacally twiddling the analogue sticks, "Mm-hmm, yeah. So I've heard. Things haven't been going according to plan for us, huh? Those fucking Inquisitors have been a pain in the ass from the get-go."
"Yes, they certainly have. Any news from your circles?"
"Yep, all those Sheikhs and their really hot daughters want extra protection, heh heh. Of course, I was expecting more calls and shit, but things have been quiet. So far."
He squeezes the left trigger and explains, "The Emirati authorities have done a great job of keeping things covered up and all. They simply wave their hands and say it was just a fire that broke out in a parking lot last night. And people, fucking idiots that they are, swallow that shit whole and buy it."
"Well, it is to their benefit, wouldn't you say?"
"Yeah! Absolutely! It's the Masquerade we're talking about here, Seth! The most sacred and most important of the Camarilla's Traditions, even the other Sects understand the basic need to keep our existence a secret from the mouth-breathers."
Seth softly chuckles, "You're right, as always, Ewan. But, still, we can't let this slide. Our enemy is still too strong. So far, the Banu Haqim and the Malkavians have made steady progress against the SI, but not nearly as enough as I'd like." There's some frustration in his voice.
"Yeah, well, the clowns who are fighting these assholes are kinda...crazy and a bunch of other stuff that sounds gay as hell, but yeah. My point is, if you want results, then you gotta get everyone else on board."
"Hmm, easier said than done. Sometimes I feel like the Primogen Council is made up of teenagers, always arguing and bickering with each other about this or that. It's...it's honestly too much, keeping them in line and making sure they don't go for each other's necks and make a mess of things. Hmph."
The High Priest goes on, feeling a little annoyed, "At least the Blade of Haqim have killed a lot of our enemies. Even if their intentions are vastly different from our own, less SI is always a good thing to have."
"Yeah, maybe. Still, I don't like the idea of THOSE assholes running rampant."
"That is a fact, yes."
"Hrmph. But I suppose you're right. Just keep those Blade crazies on a tight leash, OK? I don't want this to bite us in the ass later on. I don't mind the Malks and the others, but those fuckin' Assamites just can't be trusted, alright? They're too uptight and all...kinda crazy, if you ask me."
Seth shakes his head, "No, you're not entirely wrong. Their code of honor is their weakness, the same can be said for their teachings. It will, I'm sure of it, be their undoing. In the meantime, however, we use them to get rid of a common foe. Many of them will be destroyed along the way, but that only works to our benefit. Once this all blows over, we'll figure out what to do with the rest."
There's quite an ominous tone in Seth's voice.
Gallagher growls in approval, "Mm-hmm, yeah. I'm down with that. Still, you gimme the word and I'll be ready to rip some SI to fucking shreds!" There's a disturbing eagerness and glee that laces his words.
Seth faintly smiles, "I appreciate that, Ewan. We need to have a bit of a discussion on the matter, though. A few more details need to be ironed out. In the meantime, keep your eyes and ears peeled and enjoy your...game or whatever it's called."
Before Seth leaves, he leans forward and queries, "Any news on the Caitiff racecar driver, N0S4A2. I hear they're still in town, taking part in street races and such."
Gallagher snarls and almost breaks his controller, "AAAARGH. Fuck that fucking Freestyler! If I ever see that motherfucker again, I'm gonna body them and feed them their own ashes! Bastard fucking hit me...in Elysium of all places! Gah!"
Seth raises a brow, "Hm, yes, that was quite an unfortunate event. At least our Caitiff problem was solved when the Marjan Tower came down and destroyed most of them. I've been told that the rest have fled to Abu Dhabi."
Gallagher scoffs and grunts, "Tch, good luck getting in. They're a disgrace to our kind, if you ask me."
"Well, maybe, maybe not. Still, your buddy--"
Gallagher glowers at his fellow Viper with gritted teeth.
Seth chuckles and corrects himself, "N0S4A2 is still out there. They still haven't left this Domain after what had happened. What does that tell you about them?"
Ewan rolls a shoulder, "That they're either stupid, suicidal, or both. Or maybe they're just not afraid of anything at all. Must be a fuckin' Brujah under that helmet. Hmph."
Seth frowns a little, "Perhaps. Or there very well could be a fellow Setite under their helmet. Anything is possible these nights. I know everyone's focused on the SI threat, but I'd like to know more about this N0S4A2, if you will."
"I'll look into it, Seth. No promises, but you know how I do things. It ain't the demure ballerina way."
Seth states, "Oh, I'd have it no other way, Gallagher."
The Typhonist High Priest gets up, dusts some nonexistent dirt off his trousers, and makes his way out of Gallagher's Haven. Edwin follows closely behind his master, head lowered and lips closed.
Once at the door, Seth turns around and asks, "Gallagher, I have a question. It's about the Assamite, Svetlana."
Gallagher groans and mashes the pause button on his controller. He trudges over to Seth and wordlessly motions for him to ask away.
Seth inquires, "Svetlana, she's a...woman, right?"
"The fuck's that supposed to mean?"
Seth prods, "I mean, she's a biological woman, correct?"
Gallagher exclaims, "Ah! OK, OK, I get it, I get it. Yeah, after what happened with Syl--"
Seth's expression turns foul and he lifts a stern finger, "Don't even say that name. Just...don't."
"Eh, I guess so, yeah. So, you're serious about that Russian chick, huh? You and her gonna be an item in the next couple of nights? Anyway, lemme tell ya this: if somebody tried THAT kinda shit with me, I'd fuckin' fold 'em!" He cracks his knuckles to reinforce his point.
There's a glimmer in Seth's serpentine eyes, "I hope so, yes."
Gallagher snickers and teases, "Seth and Svetlana sitting in a tree K-I-S-S-I-N-G."
Edwin giggles but covers his mouth when he sees the stern glare coming from the amber eyes of his Domitor. Seth rolls his eyes and shakes his head, "Yes, yes, I uh...hope that's the case. It's been a while, and I have certain desires that I would like to explore a bit more."
Gallagher rubs his hands together, "Wow, you really have it down bad for that Slavic bimbo, huh? But why her? I still don't get it, I mean you gave me vague answers and shit, but WHY HER?"
Seth shrugs and turns his head aside, "I have a multitude of reasons for pursuing her. But she's so fascinating, vibrant, and beautiful. She's a woman who looks like she needs guidance and help...guidance and help that I alone am in a place to provide. Guidance and help that not even the world or that Sire of hers could ever offer."
Bullshit.
Gallagher snort-chuckles, "Haha! OK, knock yourself out, buddy. And if she turns you down, what then? You gonna MAKE her your woman?"
Seth is unfazed by the disturbing implication. He simply shrugs, "I have my ways. I suppose a Blood Bond is feasible, but I wouldn't jump at it immediately. But I feel drawn to her. She's different from the rest of her Clan. For an Assamite, she's...unique, different. A breath of fresh air, if you will. There's something in her; I can feel it."
Gallagher rolls a shoulder and dryly nods, "Mm-hmm. Yeah, butterflies in the stomach and all that lovey-dovey shit. Me, personally? I'm just looking for a good suck and tug, y'know what I mean? No strings attached, nothing. No gross feelings involved. No cooties, ugh, cooties. Yuck."
Seth chuckles, "Cooties? Ewan, we're not 8 anymore." 
Gallagher snorts, "Oh, come on! You know what I mean, all those womanly...feelings and such. Girly vibes, ew. It's like, y'know, the grossest shit ever, ugh." He shudders and grimaces at whatever he's worked himself up into being "grossed out" about.
The High Priest lets out a long sigh, "Hmm, well, that's something for you to contend with in your own time."
Gallagher leans against the doorway and asks, "So, where you off to now? Need a tag-along?"
"Like I said, the Primogen Council is meeting to discuss our progress against the SI. I also wanna know what the hell went wrong last night and hope that it doesn't happen again. And, well, Svetlana's gonna be there." There's a glint of obsessive desire in Seth's eyes when mentioning her name.
Gallagher smirks and raises his chin, "Uh-huh. Yeah, all business, huh? Well, go on, ya fucking stud. Heh."
Seth bows his head, twirls his snake cane in his hands, and walks off with Edwin following in tow. As soon as he's out onto the hallway, he grimaces and winces at how well-lit it is.
It's quite long and narrow and bright, fluorescent lights beam down on everyone who passes through. Seth furrows his eyebrows in annoyance as the harsh lights wash out his vision.
Edwin licks his lips and puts his hand around his master's back, "Easy, sir. Easy."
The High Priest stifles a groan of annoyance and struggles to maintain his composure. The lights are doing their job, causing his skin to burn (sort of) and his pupils to shrink in order to protect them from the light.
He swallows hard, clears his throat, and makes a beeline for the elevator at the end of the hallway. Like a maniac, he repeatedly taps the down button, but the elevator is still stuck all the way up at the 27th floor.
The Setite angrily groans and keeps mashing his thumb against the button, like that's gonna make it come down faster. Eventually, the elevator makes a ping and dings at the 18th floor. The doors slide open, and Seth makes a mad dash to get inside before it closes.
Edwin meekly walks in and sees a gaggle of women all wearing skimpy dresses and jewelry. They're all talking amongst themselves and not paying any attention to the vampire High Priest and his Ghoul.
The Setite just grabs onto the railings and stands as still as he possibly can, hoping that they don't realize who he is.
With his enhanced vamp senses, Seth hears some chick whispering about the snake head cane he's holding. He plainly smirks and tries to suppress the pain that's being rained down on him by the elevator's bright lights.
The elevator finally gets to the 6th floor, and Seth almost dives out, almost falls over, but he's able to stay upright somehow. He clenches his jaw and maintains his composure as a few kids squeeze in and scoot past him. He winces, and Edwin shoots him a worried glance.
The elevator goes down 1 agonizing floor at a time. Each time, the lights get brighter and the pain Seth feels gets worse. Once at the ground floor, he hurries past everyone and makes his way to the comfort of low lighting (or no lighting) and the dull and blandly decorated lobby area that leads outside.
He clears his throat and sighs in relief as his car comes into sight. As he steps inside, Edwin takes his place at the driver's seat, just as he's supposed to.
Seth sighs in relief and spreads his legs in the backseat. He blinks a few times and rolls his shoulders.
His Ghoul inquires, "Is everything alright, sir? You seem to be in pain." He keeps his eyes on the road ahead, not wanting to bother or aggravate his Domitor any further, but he...needs something from him.
Seth forces deep, steady breaths, "Yes, yes, I am fine, Edwin. Thank you. God, I don't know how these...people manage. All that light, all the time. It's--it's...tormenting. Grrrrgh." The Typhonist keeps rubbing his eyes and squeezing them tight.
Edwin keeps his hands on the steering wheel and gulps deeply. He's not sure if he should ask, but he needs...it. At a stop signal, he looks at the rearview mirror and sees his master's eyes turning into snakelike slits- not an unusual sight.
"Uh...sir, I--I uh...need blood. I need some. It is time for, sir."
The Typhonist's face scrunches in confusion, "What? You...you should have told me this sooner, Edwin."
Edwin nervously nods, "For that, I profusely apologize, sir. It was my mistake. There has been a lot on my mind, and you were quite busy with more pressing matters. I thought it wise to give you the space that you needed, but, as you can see, I...need my 'dose', sir." The shakiness and desperation in his voice is quite evident.
"Oh? I see. Alright then, Edwin. But don't make this a habit, hmm? Pull over near this corner and make it quick." Seth already begins to roll up his sleeve and to expose his vein. He can hear his Ghoul's heartbeat quicken with anticipation.
"I won't, sir. Th--Thank you. And may Typhon continue to bless and--and favor you, sir." He speeds up a bit and pulls over, then stops.
Edwin rolls up the windows and parks under a flickering streetlight. Seth groans and frowns at how the light seems to be causing his skin to itch. He twists his mouth and rubs his fingers against his cheeks.
Edwin gulps and goes in for a drink of his master's Blood, but Seth puts his hand around the back of his neck and stops him.
The Ghoul gasps and his jaw is agape.
Seth slits his wrist with his claw but holds it away from Edwin's mouth, "Next time, Edwin, tell me these things sooner. I can't read your mind, OK?"
Edwin obsequiously lowers his head and says, "I am so sorry, sir. It shan't happen again. As Typhon is our witness, I shall be more diligent and obedient."
The Setite lowers his hand and gives Edwin access to his wrist. The Ghoul inhales the smell of his master's blood, feeling the euphoria that's already beginning to flow through him.
His lips are against the flow in no time, his mouth sucking away at the Vitae as it drips onto his tongue and down his throat. Edwin closes his eyes and feels the power course through his mortal body.
Seth indifferently stares at the city passing by in a blur- cars, bikes, buses, buildings, streets, neon signs- all of it whizzing by like it was happening in slow-motion.
Once the Ghoul has done taking yet another bite of the eternal, he withdraws and bows his head in thankfulness. He holds his master's wrist to his forehead and mutters, "Praise be unto Typhon, and blessed be the High Priest of Apep."
Seth cracks a small smile, "Yes, yes. That was very good and thoughtful of you, Edwin. And I suppose I should be grateful for all you've done for me, hmm?"
"..."
"I am, Edwin. Continue to serve me and I promise you that you shall never have cause to regret it. Now, there's something I'm gonna need you to take care of. Anyway, let's get moving first."
Edwin nods eagerly, starts the car up, and joins the flow of traffic on the street. Seth takes in the sights and sounds of this particular neighborhood, seeing what he can and noting how many other Vipers he can feel around here.
At another stop, Seth reaches into his back pocket and pulls out a credit card. He wedges it between his index and middle fingers and hands it to his Ghoul, "I'm gonna need you to go out and buy gifts for Avery and Alfred. You know, the usual. Just like last time. I can't set foot into those damn toy stores- too much light."
Edwin gingerly takes the credit card and puts it into his own wallet, "Of course, sir. Any requirements in particular?"
Seth rubs his eyes a little and rolls his head, "No, whatever's trending. Barbie, Lego, I dunno. Money's no object now that I've recently come into more than I could have ever dreamed of. Take care of the packaging and shipping, too. Whatever's fast, remember the town's name: P-L-A-I-N-T-R-Y."
He further adds, "Make sure it's goes to an Edgar Steale. Again, just like last year."
Edwin nods and turns down another road. After some driving, Seth stares out the window, "Alfred's the younger one. Avery's the older one. Get something appropriate for them, Edwin."
The Ghoul eases his foot off the accelerator and promises, "I shall do my best, sir."
Seth blankly stares out the window and faintly smiles. Is this a small moment of Humanity for an otherwise sociopathic High Priest? Perhaps so. Perhaps so.
The Typhonist High Priest sniffs and licks his lips, "Hmm, yeah, I can't wait to see Svetlana. It's been a while, and I hope she's doing OK. Not too many err...scratches or anything."
Edwin keeps his eyes glued on the roads ahead. It's a fairly quiet place, narrow and devoid of houses. There are mostly small businesses and shops- cheap fast-food joints, tiny grocery stores, and the like.
The Ghoul squeezes the steering wheel a little and takes a sharp left. He cranes his neck and stops near the footpath.
Seth narrows his eyes and purses his lips, "Something the matter?"
"Where are we supposed to meet, sir?"
Seth sighs, "These Nosferatu, always picking the most obtuse and ridiculous places to meet. No matter. This doesn't look like the correct spot, hmm." He leans over and rolls down his right-side window a little.
Trees cover the footpath, their leaves and winding branches obscuring some of the foot traffic on the street and sidewalk. The lights from the streetlamps don't really do a good job of penetrating the thick foliage.
Back at Gallagher's Haven...
He's still gaming when a call comes through on his work phone. Frustrated, he groans and snatches it up.
"I'm trying to be a winner here, man!"
The voice on the other end of the line is annoyed, but she's used to the gruffness of this man by now. Her accent is neutral, and her voice is calm and professional, "Hello, Mr. Gallagher."
He snaps back, "What? Oh, it's you. Yeah, what's up?"
She goes on to tell him that there are some bigtime movers and shakers who are concerned about recent occurrences in the city and wish to meet with a highly trained and professional security consultant to discuss worst-case scenarios, evac routes, and other security details.
Gallagher yawns and holds back a groan, "It was supposed to be my night off. Just me and my PS3. Yeah, whatever. Let 'em know I'll be there soon. And turn those fuckin' lights down when I get there, I don't need to be blasted by 'em when I walk in. Good. Bye."
He hangs up, goes to the bathroom to tidy up and refresh, then he starts to head over wherever. He slips into a v-neck shirt, matching suit and pant set, and black lace-up shoes.
When he gets into his car, he rolls up the windows and grunts. The roads are even more congested than usual tonight. There are people everywhere- crowds, lines, and people trying to find parking spaces and shit.
On his way to where he's going, he honks like a maniac, curses nearly everyone he comes across, and has that wild, unhinged look in his dead eyes. Eventually, he makes it. He checks his watch, sighs, and walks to the glass doors.
Back to Seth...
He and his Ghoul have found the intended meeting spot after nearly 30 minutes of driving and circles and eventually stopping and just asking for directions.
Edwin rolls up to a decommissioned power plant, or at least what's left of it. Ivy, vines, and other plants cover its broken beige walls, but its smokestacks remain and tower over the street, like broken tombstones to an abandoned cemetery.
There's a black SUV, a fancy Ferrari, and a few bikes parked at the front entrance of the compound. There are tons of detritus and stray cats running around, picking through the trash that's scattered about, as well as a few scurrying rats.
Seth puts his snake cane against his shoulder and takes a moment to study the place.
What was once a wide power plant is now a victim of urban decay. Moss covers the building's walls, and its roof is heavily overgrown with weeds, shrubbery, and all kinds of plants. It's like an urban forest.
There are broken windows and scattered graffiti, but no sign of any people or movement.
Seth blithely opines, "Well, Tommy sure does know how to pick 'em. C'mon, Edwin."
Edwin turns off the ignition and follows his Domitor along the broken walkway and overgrown pavement that leads to the power plant's entrance. There are rusted shutters, a few graffiti tags, and some cracked glass panels.
Seth pokes around at some of the rusted metal panels with his snake cane and shrugs, "Hmm, so far so good, I guess." He squints his eyes to look into the compound's interior, but it's too dark to see much of anything.
His Ghoul opens 1 of the rusted metal doors and pushes it all the way to the side, letting his master waltz in. Edwin feels the rust get all over his hands. He grimaces uncomfortably and wipes it onto his pants.
Seth softly grumbles and twists his mouth, "It's not gonna kill you, Edwin. It's just...dirt."
Edwin lowers his head and avoids eye contact, "It just felt so...sticky and uncomfortable on my hands, sir."
"Hmm." Seth paces around this cavernous area, with cracked tile floors and broken cement walls, all stained with rainwater and other stuff. There are broken windows on all 4 sides. He cranes his neck and looks at the ceiling, wondering something or the other to himself.
He makes a show of twirling his cane and steps closer to his Ghoul. Edwin nervously gulps and meets his master's serpentine gaze with apprehension.
Seth plainly states, "Remember that I will never ask you to do anything that I wouldn’t do myself. You...understand that, yes?"
Edwin has a distant and blank stare on his face. He doesn't immediately respond.
"EDWIN!"
The Ghoul's body jerks and he stammers, "S--Sir?"
"Did you even hear what I told you just now?"
Edwin quickly nods, "Y--yes, sir."
"So, what'd I say?"
The Ghoul starts to sweat profusely, "I--I...don't--"
Seth audibly sighs and disapprovingly shakes his head, "You've been acting strange lately. Why? Is something the matter with you? If it's of a spiritual nature, which it always is, you know that you can come to me, correct? And I will help guide you on the road that you need to take."
Edwin fidgets and taps his foot on the floor. He stammers and struggles to formulate a simple sentence. There's something unnatural (even more so) about his master's presence and it's only gotten worse these past few nights.
Seth places his cold hand on Edwin's tense shoulder, "Edwin. Whatever it is, either deal with it in your own time or come to me. Don't waste either of our time by sitting there, shivering, and doing nothing but looking like a fool. Yes?"
The Ghoul keeps nervously tapping his feet on the floor. He just can't get the words to come out, not yet.
Seth frowns and takes a step back, but his intense gaze remains as deep and penetrating as ever, "Is that understood?"
Edwin frantically nods his head and whispers, "Y--yes. Yes, sir."
"Good. Now, this is the kind of place a Nossie like Tommy would meet in, right?"
"I believe so, sir."
"Let's take a look around."
Muffled talking sounds can be heard coming from the lower levels of the power plant. Seth hears it and figures it must be where he's supposed to be, but he doesn't get too close. Yet.
He turns around and sees Edwin following close by, looking nervous and uncomfortable. Seth rolls a shoulder and tells him, "We're going to be alright, Edwin. It'll just be business as usual. I'm sure of it."
Edwin silently nods, but he's not sure if he believes it. Over the past few nights, he's seen his own Domitor do terrible things to his own flock back at the compound, even some who were completely devoted, and now, his Domitor is casually walking about, ready to do more such things to anyone else who dares to cross his path.
It's not like Seth is just killing out of boredom- no. He's doing so, rashly, but with a certain defined purpose. As of late, there's also been an underlying fury in his actions and words that Edwin hasn't ever seen before.
The High Priest twists his cane around and is hit with a draft of cold air. He doesn't shiver or shudder as a mortal usually would. It just feels like a mere tickle of his dead skin, if anything.
The 2 idly walk about and look at the various dials and knobs in the generator room. There's a skeleton near the center of it, wearing a worker's uniform. The uniform doesn't appear that old and the skeleton is in some kind of pose.
Seth curiously looks it over, wondering what happened to whoever this was. His attention is soon drawn to the generator itself. It looks like it's still operational somehow, and it seems to be pumping out energy. It hums and purrs softly, but it's caked in layers of dust and other nasties.
A few spider webs cover the ceiling, but Edwin brushes them aside with his bare hand. He curiously turns a few of the dials, but it makes no sense to him.
Seth shrugs and twirls his cane, then pats Edwin's shoulder. He points to a door that leads to a basement, but it's been boarded up, "Hm, hmm. Come on, let's try going this way."
He pries the boards off with his raw preternatural strength and starts making his way down the stairs. The railings are shaky, but the few lights overhead seem to be new.
The muffled sounds of voices come from below and they're a whole lot more audible now. It's still dark, but there's some light. Edwin quietly follows in tow, his hands clenched into fists.
At the bottom of the staircase, Seth is hit by a wave of putrid air. He doesn't react to it, but Edwin gags and has to put his hand over his nose and mouth.
The lights are old-looking, and the power plant's generators are big, old, and softly purring like huge cats. Seth hears the sounds of an argument in the distance and recognizes some of the voices.
Standing afar from the group are those 2 surly Setites- Joyce and Tristan. They're both dressed in formal wear and look a bit stiff. Joyce nods over to the approaching High Priest while Tristan approaches him.
He does a lazy thumb-back to the group and speaks in a muffled tone, "They're having a bit of a chin wag back there, Seth. Everyone's here. All the Primogens, those 2 Assamites--"
Seth's dead eyes light up, "Svetlana's here??"
"Yes, she's here, boss."
Without saying anything, Seth pushes past his 2 fellow Setites and makes a beeline for the group. Paul, the Toreador Harpy, is pacing about and taking long and shuddering drags from his strawberry-flavored vape pen. He's dressed in a casual blue suit and a white button-down shirt. A puffy rose is pinned to his lapel.
There's a tension in the air as he does this, and it's mostly coming from the 2 Assamites who are present- John and Svetlana. The former is arguing with Vizier Mohammed, who is dressed in a black thawb, while the latter is keeping her head hung low and hands clasped in front of her.
Seth quietly approaches and waits for his moment. The Nosferatu Primogen, Tommy, is the first to notice him, and he gives him a wee call out, his Scottish accent ever so grating and thick, "Oi, Sethie, boy! 'Mon here, ya bawbag! Been a wee while, eh?" he waves the High Priest over and lets out a garbled chuckle.
The Setite looks at the Nossie from head to toe and dryly says, "Thomas. How are things? I take it we're making progress in our campaign against the Second Inquisition?"
"Simmer doon, pal, simmer doon, awright? Naw be jumping into things without a wee warm up. I trust yous had no trouble finding this place, eh?"
Seth sighs faintly, "It's a bit off the beaten path, no wonder it's popular with you Crawlers then, hmm?"
Tommy adjusts his trademark mosaic-patterned porcelain mask and tugs on his suit jacket. He shakes his head and waltzes off. Absalom, the Malkavian Primogen, approaches the High Priest, intent guiding his every step.
The Elder Lunatic is dressed in a dark maroon-red thawb. His blue eyes are as cold and piercing as ever. Even Seth (!) feels so taken aback by the Elder's...everything, really. His penetrating stare, his deep and authoritative voice, his very presence. It's all so unnerving.
The Malk bows his head, "High Priest." His voice is as calm and measured as ever, and his eyes are as icy as can be.
Seth faintly smiles, "Absalom. How are things on your end. I know you haven't exactly been working with the Blade to get rid of the SI- you have your reasons- but how are things otherwise?"
Absalom goes on to tell the High Priest about he and his fellow Mockers have been fighting against the forces of the SI. Apparently, they've been waging more...psychological forms of...warfare, if one could call it that.
Using various amalgams of Malkavian Disciplines (Auspex, Obfuscate, Dementation, etc.), they've been subtly spreading fear, uncertainty, and doubt amongst the lower rungs of the Unit 8211 hierarchy. Simple redirections, deterring patrols through a certain region, and so on.
Absalom, for his part, is fairly measured in his explanation of his Clan's activities over the past few nights. He doesn't get over-excited or wildly gesticulate like...Mr. Bean.
Yeah, he's here, too. He's excitedly talking about how he fooled an entire plainclothes patrol unit into driving their vehicle into an open pit, resulting in a single fatality and numerous injuries.
The young Malk wildly gesticulates and makes all kinds of arm movements, while Absalom remains as still as a statue. Seth frowns at this, but he knows that such clowning is probably to be expected from Jesters.
At least they're doing their part.
Mark, the Ventrue Primogen, is awkwardly standing near a wall, his arms folded in front of him, looking out of place. He's dressed in a bulky fur coat, and his sunglasses are in place.
He greets Seth, but his demeanor is cold, and his tone is neutral (a bit forced, too), if not somewhat gruff. The Setite briefly looks him over. He's heard a lot about how Mr. Kincaid here has been taking a free ride in high-end mortal institutions, how he's been misusing the Dominate Discipline, and so on.
Regardless, Seth extends his cold hand and Mark takes it, forcing a tight smile, "Yo, Seth! Hey! 'Sup?"
"You tell me, Mr. Kincaid. I hope you've at least cleared some of the outstanding debts you owe."
The Blue Blood dismissively waves his hand, "Yeah, yeah. I did. Heh." The mischievous undertone in his voice clearly indicates that he did not, well not in the way expected.
It's likely that he just doubles down on Dominate, continuing to turn people's brains to mush just to get VIP access to those fancy casinos and clubs and shit.
"Mm. Good."
Seth proceeds to slowly walk over to the Toreador Primogen. Sebastian is dressed in a custom-made jade suit. His moccasins look imported and he's wearing no socks. His hair is gelled and tied into a fancy bun.
He stands casually and looks at his nails like they're the best thing in the world, not really bothered about anyone (or anything) around him.
"Seth. Nice fit. The brown and yellow really do bring out the color in those amber eyes of yours...the shades, though? Nah, I'd ditch those for some nice Guccis, but that's just me."
Seth purses his lips and stiffly nods, "Hmm, interesting. I'll keep that in mind, Mr. Gorsky."
He hears a slight chittering coming from 1 of the nearby generators. Seb continues preening himself and avoiding everyone else.
Lastly, there's Vizier Mohammed Khan. His charge, Ms. Kawasaki is nearby. She's got that permanent scowl on her face. She's wearing a simple leather jacket and black denims. She grits her teeth and holds tightly onto the handle of her tantō, clearly itching for a fight.
The Vizier is busy arguing with John. The latter looks like he's about to lunge forward, but Vizier Mohammed extends his hands out in an almost placating gesture and shoots him a look, warning him to back off.
When Seth approaches, John backs off, grumbling under his breath.
Vizier Mohammed takes Seth's hands in both his hands and gives it a firm shake. He speaks in a strong and booming tone, "Ah, High Priest! Welcome, welcome! How are faring tonight?"
Seth smiles and plainly nods, "By Typhon's grace, I'm doing fine, Mr. Khan. How are you and how's your...charge keeping?"
"I fare well, as does Ms. Kawasaki. It is good that you came when you did, High Priest. This John is getting worse by the minute. He has a temper, and it needs to be controlled!"
The Assamite Primogen huffs and sharply turns his head.
Seth smiles and answers, "I'll talk to him. You just wait here."
With that, the Viper approaches John and simply asks, "So, how are things going, hmm? You're making quite the mess all over this city. Not that I'm complaining, of course. But isn't it getting a bit...out of hand? Ideally, you're supposed to get rid of the SI- discreetly, not start a war."
John's face scrunches in anger, "Yeah, no shit, man! What do you think we've been doing for the past couple of nights, huh? Last night was a mess. Reasons. We lost a few. Like I said numerous times before: there's not very many of us to do this, OK?!"
Getting frustrated, he continues, "So, I was trying to ask Mohammed over there, spineless asshole, if he'd be willing to allow the other Banu Haqim in this city to join us, but he--he--"
The speedy Assamite snarls and shouts at the Vizier, "--HE FUCKING REFUSES TO LET THEM JOIN US! We're of the same Clan, you asshole!"
Seth frowns and firmly stares at John, "Mr. Suarez, please. Calm down. I don't need you blowing a gasket on me here. Talk to me. You need money, weapons--"
John furiously claps back, his dead eyes burning with anger, "We need people, dammit! Not platitudes or toys or--or...cash, but...no, never mind."
Seth puts his hand on John's strained shoulder and looks into his eyes, "I know that look, John. It's desperation, isn't it? What is it, c'mon, tell me. I'm here to help."
John sighs deeply, "Since we're all out there, fighting those Israeli lunatics and all, we've had to take...a lotta time off our work. As it stands, we're already on precarious grounds and we need our jobs to keep a damn roof over our heads--"
Seth firmly says, "Get to the point."
"Svetlana's been turning down babysitting gigs. I've also been turning a few private Kenpo-teaching opportunities down. Real lucrative stuff, heh. The rest of us are doing the same, and it's putting us at risk. We don't wanna be thrown out into the mean streets of this city."
Seth sighs and looks around before responding, "I'm sorry to hear that, Mr. Suarez. Truly. I...wish I could help. I probably could, but it'd end up raising more eyebrows and that's not good for any of us. Especially right now. How's Svetlana doing, by the way?"
"She's uh...yeah, she's a bit shaken up, but she knows how to hold her own in a fight."
Seth doesn't say much else. He merely lifts his chin and approaches Svetlana with a stride of confidence. Overconfidence, perhaps.
She's standing aside, head lowered, and hands still clasped. She has an empty stare in her green eyes.
Seth approaches her, and she looks up at him, "Svetlana. How are you, hmm?" His tone changes from one of contempt to a warm and gentle tone.
Svetlana is taken aback and slightly stutters, "I...I am fine. How...how are you, Seth?" Her lips are slightly trembling.
Seth takes her hand and caresses it gently, "Oh, Svetlana, I'm good, good. I've been well and doing great things, great things indeed. How goes the fight against the SI? I hope they haven't uh...hurt you too much, hmm?"
Svetlana gingerly withdraws her hand and nods, "Is no issue. I know how to fight, and I am very strong and capable--"
She sounds on the verge of tears. Seth lightly lifts her chin, "Hey, hey, easy, easy there, Svetlana. I know how it is. Shh, shh."
The High Priest smiles and tries to calm her, "It's all going to be fine, you'll see. You've got those um...sharp and uh...fancy and pointy daggers of yours, right? Heh, I'm pretty sure no one's gonna...err...mess with you when you've got those."
He lowers his voice, "Anyway, enough about that. How have YOU been doing, Svetlana? Your Sire told me you've been having some money issues? I hope you know I could easily help you out with that--"
Svetlana frowns and tries to shuffle away, "I appreciate your kindness, Seth, but--"
Seth pulls her back and places his hands on her shoulders. He tries to reassure her, "It's no problem, Svetlana. I have enough money, lots of it in fact. I could easily pay your rent, bills, all that, or, if you'd prefer, I can give you some every night for however long you need it. If that's not enough, I can arrange for a good job or 2."
Svetlana faintly smiles and sniffs, sanguine tears rolling down her face, "No, Seth, but I don't want you to--"
"Shh, shh," Seth pulls her into a warm embrace, his hands caressing her back as he does so. His eyes turn into slits, and he feels his dead heart act up as he holds her close. She tries to wiggle out, but it's futile.
He ignores her struggling and goes on, "Shh, shh. Everything will be OK, I promise you that. As Typhon is my witness, I promise you that. I know that you're struggling with all this and I...I'm willing to help you."
Svetlana groans and grunts, "Pl--Please, Seth. Let go of me. No--no touch like that! Errrrgh!"
Seth immediately lets go, but not before stroking her cheek with his trembling hand. Svetlana is taken aback, and she recoils in shock. Her eyes are wide and her expression is...confused.
Seth is unfazed by this, "I just wanna help you, Svetlana. Be there for you, comfort you, protect you, guide you, all that stuff. I mean you no harm. None whatsoever." He is really desperate in his attempts to make her understand his point of view.
Svetlana warily narrows her eyes, "Why? Why so much kindness to me only? You already showed us kindness by allowing us in city. You also bought for me and John new phone, but, why?"
Seth gulps and answers, "Because you're 1 of us, Svetlana. You're a Kindred, just like I am."
"That--that is not the reason..."
Seth tightly smiles, "You're right, that isn't the only reason. Truth is, I've been wanting to get close to you, Svetlana. I'm fascinated by you, Ms. Bobrov. Ever since you and the rest of the Assamites showed up that night. I...I felt something when our eyes first met. I can't explain it."
Woah!
Svetlana gasps and her jaw goes agape. She looks confused, scared, and doubtful at the same time.
Seth licks his lips and adds, "I like you, Svetlana. I--I was debating whether I should tell you or not, but I just couldn't go on like this. You fascinate me. I wanna know what makes you tick. I wanna know what your--your hopes and dreams and--and ambitions are."
With a sparkle in his eyes, he goes on to tell her, "It's not like I wanna do anything...untoward. You're...special. Delicate, even. I just wanna get to know you more, y'know, take this 1 step at a time. We can go as slow as you want..."
Svetlana is at a complete and total loss for words. She just stands there, slack-jawed and dumbfounded by the High Priest's admission.
Seth continues, "Anyway, like I said, I've got lots of money. I'm willing to do what it takes to make things better for you. Only you. All you have to do is...ask and you shall receive. Knock and I'll be there, anytime, to fling open that door and let you in. OK?"
The Assamite Neonate takes a step back, unsure of what to say or how to respond. She just gives Seth a blank look.
"You can ask for help or support whenever you want, Svetlana. If you really need money, I could--"
Svetlana holds up her hand and stammers, "Nyet. Is--is no problem. I--thank you, Seth. You are kind man. You are also, I think, nice man. But I do not know if I--I am ready for what you are asking. It would be better, I think, to be only...friendly with each other, no?"
The High Priest forces a confident smile on his face. He simply answers, "Take your time, Svetlana. I'm not in a rush, neither are you. I'm sorry if I came on a little forceful back there, but I just needed to make you understand."
"Understand?"
"Yes. I think you understand me now. This isn't like any of your previous boyfriends or...whatever. I see something in you, Svetlana. Something special. A spark, a flicker, a fire. You're more than just a Banu Haqim Neonate. More than just a woman capable of fighting, much more than that. There's something about you, Svetlana."
Svetlana gives him a sidelong glance, eyes narrowed, "There is a lot you do not know about me, Seth--"
The Sand-Snake cuts her off and pleads, taking her hands in his, "Then tell me! Tell me everything about yourself! All the secrets, the joys, the fears, the horrors, everything! I won't judge you or--or look at you in a funny way. Trust me, Svetlana. Let me in."
He looks her dead in the eye, "Please, Svetlana."
Svetlana shakes her head, "Nyet. I--I do not know if I can do that. Please, Seth. Not now. We have Second Inquisition to fight. We must put aside all our feelings and only focus on Judging the enemy. Maybe after, when it is all over, we can...talk?"
Seth begrudgingly accepts this, "Hmph. Fine. Yes, you're right, Svetlana. Absolutely right. The squeaky wheel gets the grease; fighting the SI comes first."
"I thank you, Seth. Spasibo. Please, help John, help the Blade. He is very, very worried. We do not have enough people to fight the enemy."
"Of course, Svetlana. Don't worry, I'll talk with the others and see if we can come to some sort of mutually beneficial arrangement." He twirls his cane and walks off, feeling a bit disappointed that things didn't go the way he'd hoped they would.
(What the hell was he hoping to accomplish, anyway?!)
Seth walks to the center of this place and waves for all the Kindred to gather. It takes a little while, but they all eventually gather around him in a circle and listen.
Tommy, Paul, and John look a bit huffy and pissed off, but they manage to stay quiet. Svetlana has that serious, determined look on her face.
Seb and Mark remain indifferent. Absalom and Mr. Bean stand next to each other and fold their arms in front of them.
Vizier Mohammed contemptuously glowers at John and his Childe while Ms. Kawasaki twitches and tries to resist the urge to put her blade through someone's chest.
Seth paces around and speaks, "This is a big night for us. We still have the Second Inquisition running around, taking pot-shots at anyone and anything. It would seem that we've...rattled the hornet's nest."
Paul scratches his nose with his thumb and remarks, "C'mon, Seth, we've barely put a dent in the SI's infrastructure in this city!"
Seth clears his throat, "We'll get to that later, Paul. However, we can take comfort in the fact that they've been drawn out. We know what they are, we have some idea of how they operate, and we also have an inkling of how they fight."
Tommy chimes in, "Aye, they fight dirty! Bunch of fucking wallopers, they are! Grrr!"
Seth chuckles and proceeds, "Thank you, Mr. Bollard, for that insight. Also, it's best that we don't underestimate them. Heh, of course, I'm preaching to the choir at this point. I've heard the Blade's been busy. Mr. Suarez? John? Care to come up here and tell us what you've seen?"
John starts off by saying, "We need people if we're gonna get this shit done with, OK?! Now, our spineless asshole of a Primogen..."
He points a finger to the Vizier, "...REFUSES to let the other Banu Haqim get involved in this damn fight. He's the one who's fucking this up and holding us back here! There--there's barely 40 of us a--and we've already lost a few good people last night! WE NEED HELP!"
Seth calmly nods and offers, "I'm sure all of are willing to do so, if we can reach a common ground."
John's face contorts into a series of twitches and squints, and he lets out an enraged snarl, "The fuck does that mean?! ALL our Unlives are at stake here! We're the ones risking our necks out there, night after goddamn night, to whittle these bastards down! Now ain't the time for petty politics or fuckin' blood oaths, man!"
Tommy awkwardly chuckles and stares at the ceiling, "Aye. Don't mean tae cause a ruckus in this wee gaffe, but John's right. This is no the time for all this shite."
Absalom concurs, "I agree. We have already borne witness to the handiwork of our foes- the Marjan Tower is nothing but rubble. 100s destroyed, all gone in an instant. 1000s more will be claimed and lost unless they are driven from these lands. They have already slain far more than we have. We have to stop them, High Priest."
Mark opines, "Well, I'm not a member of the SI fan club, but I'm also not about to get my hands dirty in this...whatever this is. The Ventrue have their own thing going on and with all the recent chaos, our business interests have um...taken quite a hit."
John angrily spits, "Fuck your business interests."
Mark shrugs that off and continues, "It's just the way it is, buddy. I'm doing my best to deal with this the right way, and I'm getting a ton of pressure from my fellow Ambitiones to make sure that things don't come crashing down all around us- literally and metaphorically. It--it isn't easy, OK?!"
Sebastian muses, "I'm with Mark on this. Unbelievable, I know. Do you know how many shows, photoshoots, auditions, parties, and events I've had to cancel or postpone to NEXT FUCKING YEAR?! You know how much money I've been burning--"
Svetlana cuts him off, "Shut up! Or I will come there and slap you again!" she follows it up with some choice curse words in Ukrainian. Paul faintly chuckles at that and takes a quick huff from his vape pen.
Sebastian gives her a dirty look, but he keeps his mouth shut.
Seth rolls a shoulder and shakes his head, "I'm not asking you to give up your Unlives or your money or resources. Hmph, well not yet anyways. No, if anyone's gonna foot the 'bill' for all this, it's us- the Ministry. It won't be easy, or cheap, but we've more or less spoken amongst ourselves and agreed to pay...should the need arise."
Vizier Mohammed grunts steps forward, "The Banu Haqim will aid YOU and your Clan, High Priest. I refuse to lend any support to the Blade of Haqim. These extremists disgrace our great Antediluvian by bearing his name in vain."
John's face contorts into a mixture of rage and shock, "FUCK YOU, you spineless, sniveling little sh--" he screams and lunges forward, but Svetlana bolts forward and restrains her Sire.
Vizier Mohammed yelps and cowers away while Ms. Kawasaki leaps forward and pulls out her tantō and brandishes it around in a threatening manner.
Svetlana pleads with her Sire to control his anger, "John, John, no! Do not do it. Is not worth it, John, stop. No!"
Ms. Kawasaki growls and taunts her 2 fellow Assamites, "C'mon, you jokers. Just gimme a reason. All I need is a reason to split your heads from your bodies." She looks like she wants, more than anything, to fight.
Mr. Bean snickers at this but quickly catches himself and straightens his back. He clears his throat and looks at Absalom. He looks back at his charge and says nothing in response.
Vizier Mohammed hobbles away and cowers behind his charge, peering over her shoulder and shooting mean, dirty looks at Svetlana and John.
Seth shakes his head and goes on, "Don't worry, Ms. Kawasaki, you'll have your chance to cut loose later on but now is not the time. Anyway, where were we?"
John answers, "A status update! WE have been risking our necks out there, doing YOUR dirty work, and for WHAT?! So, the rest of you assholes can line your fuckin' pockets with MORE cash and shiny trinkets?!"
Absalom sternly commands, "Calm yourself, Saracen. Even the Malkavians have, as you say, been risking their necks in the struggle against the forces of the Second Inquisition. You are not the only ones fighting them."
The Malkavian Elder calmly tilts his head and looks John directly in the eye, "Do not overestimate your capabilities, Assamite. I know better than anyone in here that it is easier to meet Final Death on nights such as these- perilous and savage nights, where the demise of untold 1000s is a certainty and survival is not a guarantee, but a luxury earned."
Mr. Bean quips, "Mmm-hmm. What he basically said, um...yep. We haven't exactly been slashing and slicing those goons up, like--" he makes all kinds of funny sounds and slashing gestures with an imaginary knife.
He awkwardly laughs and brings his fingers to the sides of his head, "We've been playing mind games with 'em! Like, making them doubt their sense of reality, sending them on wild goose chases till they run outta gas, and all that shit. They're definitely a whole lot more confused right now, heh heh!"
Absalom frowns and sighs, "Not...necessarily so, Mr. Bean. But, yes, we have been fighting against our common foe utilizing methods that are more unconventional in nature. Our...unique set of skills has proved useful in helping us stymie their activities in the region."
John's face is a mix of anger, confusion, and shock. He asks, "Is that all you've been doing? Fuckin' theme park mind games?!"
Tommy intervenes and glares at John, "Aye, simmer doon, pal. Simmer doon. It's working, that's all that matters, awright? We help these wee Malks here keep those SI bastards occupied and chasing after the sands. They do that and they're away from you lot, so you don't have that many tae chib. Sounds good, aye?"
John sees the logic of Tommy's reasoning, "Hmm, OK, fine. Yeah, if there's more out there chasing after phantoms, it means there's less to shoot at us when we do encounter each other. Alright, fine. We'll...let the Malkavians do their thing, give 'em a wide berth and all that."
Seth pats John's back and turns to the rest, "Good, good. All on the same page, I hope? Great! Thomas, I believe you have something for us? That's why you called us here, right? Care to share whatever it is with the rest of the class?"
The Nosferatu Primogen rubs his deformed hands together and adjusts his mosaic porcelain mask. He steps forward, but not before giving Mark and Seb a cold glance.
He takes a deep breath and forces it out, "I believe we've found a way into their systems."
Gasps of surprise and murmurs of anticipation erupt from amongst the crowd.
Tommy scratches the side of his mask and goes on to say, "Now, now, no be getting your pants in a twist, awright? No be jumping the gun here, aye? Geez a few more nights, just a few, to gather more data and make sure our own systems are capable of handling whatever these cunts might throw at us."
Seth purses his lips and sighs, "Go on. What do you have, Thomas?"
"Oi, well, it's a wee bit complex, Sethie, boy. We need more data, those SD cards that the Assamites 'ave been providing should do, but we are gonnae need a hell lot more than that. A LOT more than that, that's all I can say at the moment. I don't want to get you all excited. Just wait for a wee bit more time and then we will proceed, aye?"
Seth contemplatively strokes his chin, "Very well. What would you need from us, in terms of...resources and the like?"
Tommy confidently answers, "Computers- powerful ones, not that tech store shite. And lots of them. Space, also lots of it. And leccy, uninterrupted; it's been all dodgy these past few nights. Internet, too, blazing fast. Ours is a wee bit spotty down in those manky auld sewers, heh."
Seth's eyebrows shoot up, "Well, I'll see what I can do. I think I know someone from our Clan who's a VP in an Internet company. I can get them to uh...reroute some bandwidth, or whatever it's called, to you Crawlers. Sound alright? I could also arrange a few computer parts currently languishing in a port. It's been just sitting there, gathering dust, I think."
Tommy claps the Typhonist on the back and answers, "Aye, thanks! Much obliged, pal. Much obliged. Don't worry, no be getting your knickers in a twist over it, eh?"
Seth smiles and nods, "Oh, I'm not worried, not 1 bit. I'm sure that everything will work out great in the end." There's a sinister undertone in his voice, one that no one notices or catches on to.
Absalom, however, narrows his eyes and glares at the High Priest, a subtle smirk forming on the latter's mouth.
Seth extends his hands out, "Well, there's still the numbers problem. I know the Vizier has his mind made up and nothing's gonna change that. Anyone else here willing to offer Kindred who can fight and aren't afraid of the sight of blood and guts and gore- lots of it, heh."
Shaking heads and murmurs all around.
Seth sharply exhales, "Hm, well, it is what it is, I guess. For what it's worth, the Ministry stands by whoever's out there, risking Unlife and limb, to drive these SI hooligans from this Domain."
The Nosferatu Primogen raises his chin and pointedly asks, "Then how come YOU are no out there, fighting these cunts alongside the Assamites and Lunatics?"
Seth's face tics and he forces an awkward, but faint, smile on his face, "Oh, I am offering my support, Mr. Bollard. Don't get me wrong, I'm not a coward or a wimp or anything like that."
He stops for a moment and studies everyone gathered here. He proceeds, "I will never ask you to do anything that I wouldn’t do myself. But I feel strongly that my role in this should be one of support and guidance...of a spiritual nature. The outward wounds may or may not mend themselves with the passage of time, but the inward ones..."
He lets that linger in the air and paces around, "Anyway, I think that's enough for 1 night. We'll continue this later, when the time is right. Keep doing whatever it is you're doing, because that seems to be working, despite the setbacks."
John sighs and shakes his head, "If that's all, then...sure. I'll have to relay the not-so-great news to the rest of us, they're not gonna be too thrilled about it."
Seth smiles and offers, "May Typhon be with you all in your many endeavors, be they mundane, spiritual, or otherwise."
John scoffs and mutters to himself, "Pfft, not exactly worth the paper it's written on. Hfft, fine, thanks anyway. C'mon, Svetlana, let's get the hell outta here. We got some more nests to shake out tonight. Let's hope there's not too many of these fuckers out there..."
Svetlana nods and follows her Sire, "Spasibo, Seth." She curtly bows her head and briskly walks off.
Tommy calls out to the 2 Assamites, "Oi, same arrangement, aye? Geez more of those wee SD cards and shite! Garth will be waiting for yous near the westside sewer entrance, OK? It's a big tunnel, easy to get lost in, so watch yourselves, awright?"
The 2 Banu Haqim nod and head off, determination marking every step they make.
John rubs his hands together, "I think that's all. Let's get back out there and kick some ass, or whatever. And let's hope our asses don't take too hard of a kicking, heh."
"Da."
The rest of the bloodsuckers here either talk amongst themselves about fairly unimportant matters or choose to keep quiet and walk away.
Absalom is the next to leave, followed closely by Mr. Bean.
Vizier Mohammed keeps his head lowered and speaks to the High Priest in a low voice, "Mr. Steale. A word, if you will."
Seth and the Assamite Vizier go to a secluded area and begin to have a very hush-hush chat about something. Tommy's innate curiosity is piqued, and he cranes his neck, trying to overhear them.
Unfortunately, he's too far away. Still, he makes out certain phrases, like "guarantee", "rid", "entire" and so on. He's not exactly sure what they're talking about, but he's sure that it cannae be anything good.
Hmm, interesting.
Seb and Mark exchange a few harsh words before parting ways for the night. Paul the Toreador Harpy is walking about, vaping and admiring the dilapidated state of the abandoned power plant.
"Oh, wow, cool," he says to himself while staring intently at a small growth of flowers on a patchy section of the ground. The flowers are small and reddish in color.
Paul forces some strawberry vape smoke out of his mouth and is transfixed by these little flowers. His jaw hangs open, his eyes are wide, and he's mumbling something inaudible.
Everything around him seems to go quiet, like someone pressed the mute button on a TV remote.
The Aesthete loses grip of his vape pen and continues staring, deeply and keenly, at the small flowers on the ground. The vape pen hits the ground with a light thud and rolls to a stop.
Paul, completely transfixed with these little flowers, squats down and shakily extends his hand toward them, his eyes watering up with blood as he does so.
His hand is a few millimeters away from the flowers when he is suddenly snapped out of his trance. He gasps and leaps back, blinking his eyes rapidly and scratching his head.
"Oh, oh, great. Again, huh. Haha. Uh...where's my vape?" he pats his suit pockets and checks around the ground, but he doesn't find it.
"Well, shoot."
The Harpy brushes the dirt off his knees and struts off to where his vape pen rolled to. As he picks it up, he happens to glance in the direction of the High Priest and the Assamite Vizier. He notices them shaking hands and giving each other some kind of a guarantee, well that's what it seems to look like from where he's standing.
The Harpy can't really tell what's happening there, but he doesn't look like the 2 are shaking hands out of friendship or respect. He also can't read their lips, and the 2 of them are standing a good distance away from him, but it looks like they're talking about...something.
"Hm. Interesting," he thinks to himself and takes another drag from his vape pen. The smoke billows out of his mouth and he smoothly exhales it out. He lets his head hang low and thinks, "Something's up. Something's going down."
Being the Harpy means being privy to certain happenings in the Domain (be they private or public). It also means being aware of everyone's little secrets (the dirty ones, in particular). Of course, there's a lot more to this "position" than mere gossipmonger, and Paul Devers has proved himself to be something of a shrewd and well-spoken Harpy, as well.
Paul thinks to himself, "I gotta get to the bottom of that. Something's brewing in the Ministry. I'm--I'm sure of it."
Something IS indeed brewing within the Ministry, and it all comes back (in some way or the other) to the High Priest- Seth Steale.
But can a single Harpy stand in the way of decades-long plans that are already in their advanced stages and nearing completion, hmm?
Paul, for now, decides to keep a close eye on the High Priest himself, and as the evening draws to a close and everyone else disperses, he makes his way towards the Havens of Kindred he knows (not just fellow Toreadors, but others, too), and he makes himself cozy and gets them to talk.
Secrets for secrets, favors for favors. He even cashes in on a few favors that are owed to him. Where needed, he does a little cajoling, a little schmoozing, and a little buttering up (even if none of it is necessarily his cup of tea).
Paul has got his wits and his connections, and he knows how to play his cards right in the Great Game. He knows when to keep a secret under his guard for decades on end, and he knows when to unload it and leverage it against others.
Regardless, Paul is a simple man, and his goals are not exactly lofty. He's simply doing what he has to do to ensure that everyone comes out of this battle against the SI without too many lasting scratches.
With enough favors and secrets, he can get almost anything done, and with enough agreements made, he can even get people to contribute to the fight against the Unit 8211 threat in more...meaningful ways.
Ah, well...
Time marches on and it's now approximately 2:40 AM. The sky's still dark, very few stars twinkle above, and mortal life (in the forms of zooming vehicles and large crowds) subsides to a few scattered pockets here and there. There are still Kindred about, of course.
The streets aren't as lively and raucous as during the earlier hours, it's getting quiet and barren as John and Svetlana go, by taxi, to a certain industrial zone on the west side of this vast city, an industrial zone that connects to the many old, abandoned sewers (as well as the not-so-old but barely functioning ones).
Barren and lifeless as can be. The roads aren't paved very well. Cracked asphalt, holes everywhere, and deep grooves where cars, lorries, and other heavy vehicles have traveled down time and time again. Most of the signs have either fallen or have faded so much that they're practically invisible.
Even the taxi driver mumbles some confused phrases in Hindi and has to consult with a few locals (tormented immigrant laborers living around here) to guide him towards this particular location. They just point at some roads that look like the ones they need to go through.
After a few more minutes, the taxi stops at an empty intersection. John reaches into his back pocket, produces a few worn dirhams and gives it to the taxi driver.
The taxi driver counts it and gingerly says, "No change, sir?"
John stifles a sigh and pats the weary mortal on the back, "Mm, it's alright. Keep it." As it is, he's pretty short on money, but he's not about to engage in verbal fisticuffs with this baggy-eyed old man.
Svetlana and her Sire exit the car. The taxi driver reverses and drives off, dust trailing in its wake. Svetlana cranes her neck around and surveys the surroundings, looking at kilometers and kilometers of empty road. A few stray buildings dot the sandy landscape, but most of it is nothing but unclaimed wilderness and emptiness.
She looks back and forth at a few dilapidated warehouses that are near them and sees a few very small signs written in Urdu and Hindi.
John points to a random warehouse and slings his guitar case (containing his sword) over his back, "Right, that looks like it. I think. The others should be around here somewhere, probably. If we're lucky, that is."
Before walking, he turns around to his Childe, "Svetlana, I wanted to...talk to you about something. Quickly."
Svetlana checks her 2 daggers in her purse. She then nods and turns her gaze towards her Sire, "Da, what is it, John?"
"It's about Abdullah. I'm worried about him."
"What is it, John?"
"Despite it all, even after all these years...he's just a kid, Svetlana. 19-years-old at the time of his Embrace. I--I know he's a capable Blood Sorcerer and all, but--I just worry about him."
Svetlana points out, "So far, he has fought well."
John has a rigid expression, "I know that, but I hope that this...doesn't take too much of a toll on him. All this fighting, all that crazy stuff he does with his Blood Magic...I know we have to use whatever weapons we have against our enemies, but...it's still dangerous stuff, Svetlana."
"Abdullah knows how to control it. Otherwise, he would not have come this far," she responds, keeping her voice level.
"I hope you're right," John solemnly responds and walks towards the warehouse with the faded sign that's barely legible.
He stops and clenches his jaw, "Goddamn. I--I don't know if I'd be able to forgive myself if something happened to him, Svetlana. He's like...my best friend, the lil bro I never had, heh. He was the first one who I met when I came to the UAE."
With a lone tear of blood rolling down his left cheek, John says, "I was expecting Banu Haqim here, sure, but it was a surprise when Abdullah said that he's with the Blade. From there, we became great friends. How time has...flown since then."
He rubs his face and wipes the blood-tears away with his sleeve, "Shit, anyway, c'mon, let's go. We got a long fight ahead of us. Let's hope it doesn't turn out to be a disaster like last night."
Svetlana grunts and has an apprehensive look on her face when she hears that.
John notices this and gets what's happening, "Oh, right. Svetlana..."
She struggles to meet her Sire's concerned gaze.
"Svetlana...if--if you see that asshole again--"
She quickly interjects, "I will Judge him, John. Not you or others."
"Fair enough."
After a minute of walking up a muddy and uneven path, Svetlana and her Sire see a warehouse with the door hanging loose. It's dark, dingy, and decrepit as all hell. A lone lamppost weakly illuminates this entrance to this derelict place.
At the door, John mumbles something to himself, "Bollard. Tommy? Thomas. Thomas Bollard. I swear I've heard that name before."
He continues in his thoughtful musing, "I think it was back in the 1980s, some uh...newspaper article about...I forgot. Hmph. Anyway, that can wait. C'mon, Svetlana, let's get set up for tonight."
The door creaks open as Svetlana pushes it open. Inside, most of the Blade of Haqim members are gathered around, furtive and tired looks on their hollow and sunken faces. A few look at the door as Svetlana and John come through, but the majority pay them no mind.
Abdullah, his arms crossed and his brow furrowed, is the only one who gets up to greet the new arrivals. He's dressed in dark denims and a shell jacket. His sneakers are scuffed and tattered.
"As-salamu alaykum," the Blood Sorcerer greets his fellow Assamites.
"Wa alaykumu s-salam," Svetlana smiles, and then frowns when she sees the bags under the Blood Sorcerer's eyes, "You look tired. How are you keeping?"
There's some straining in Abdullah's voice, but it's faint, "I cannot complain, habibi. I shouldn't. Come, come, we have been waiting a long time for you. Some of us were even wondering whether you would show up or not. I got the burner phone here, John."
He pulls out a burner phone (cheap flip-phone variety) and tosses it to the John. He deftly catches it in his palm and flips it open.
Samir is standing in a dark corner, barely visible. His arms are folded and he's leaning against a wall that isn't covered in mold or cracks. He's wearing a tight, collared short sleeved shirt with smiley face patterns and skinny jeans. Cheap brown sandals, too.
He looks a little frustrated and his lower lip moves from side to side as he looks at a newspaper (the jobs section) with a look of deep concentration and dissatisfaction. He flips through a few more pages and shakes his head, mumbling (and likely cursing) in Arabic under his breath.
A few of the others are sitting around a large, circular table. Zeina sits among them. She's dressed in a silk shirt and wide-legged pants. Her hair is combed back. There's a faint frown on her face. She appears to be...on-edge, for some reason. The other Assamites here look bored or fatigued, but otherwise no one appears to be overly troubled by anything.
Zeina springs up and gesticulates, "We have been waiting for you for 40 minutes! I took off from work early and spent an hour trying to find this place! Walla, this had better be worth it!"
John presses his lips into a thin line and acknowledges her (justified) concerns with a curt nod, "I'm sure it will be worth it. Sorry if it seems like we're late."
Zeina tsks and walks off to sit by Abdullah's side. He pats her on the back, a sympathetic expression on his face, "You seem more troubled by this than usual."
She claps back at him, "And you're not?!" Her eyes are wide and she looks ready to spring up and snap at anyone at any given moment.
The Blood Sorcerer answers with a half-hearted shrug, "It is something that we cannot control at the moment, habibi. Regardless, we are here now, ready to Judge the Zionists and avenge those who have fallen by their hands."
John clears his throat and calls everyone to gather closer. Samir angrily tosses the newspaper aside and strides to join his fellow Assamites. They all gather in a rough semi-circle in front of John. The majority look indifferent, a few appear to be nervous, but there's a couple who are obviously eager to get to bidness and kick some Zionist ass.
John blows a raspberry and holds the burner phone up, "Once I make this call, they're gonna come at us. After last night's...debacle, we're not taking any risks, everyone. No mistakes, stay together, and watch each other's backs. OK? No trying to be a hero, heh."
John continues, "I want everyone on guard and ready. You can bet your ass that these assholes will be coming at us with everything they've got- and we've already seen what that means. Eyes up for drones but prioritize those with flamethrowers or incendiary shotguns. No point worrying about the stakes, just don't let 'em get in too close to us."
Nodding heads and sounds of assent all around.
John licks his lips, and his hands shake when he starts to dial a random number. He holds the phone close to his mouth and starts screaming in, "BEAST! BEAST! VAMPIRE! BLOOD! KINDRED! Gimme a few bags of blood! I'm here, the new place, and I want the good stuff in 30 minutes or less. Don't try and screw us over, either--"
In the Unit 8211 Command Center...
An analyst is busy typing away at a mechanical keyboard. She has a mono headset on, and a ping hits her screen. The automated keyword scanner in her monitoring software catches something and it sends her a pop-up notification. Red borders and a few exclamation points. All written in Hebrew.
She looks up, sees the alert and her eyes widen. Her fingers glide across the keyboard and she loudly calls out, "Commander Gallant? Sir? Sir?"
Commander Gallant straightens his back and approaches her with a gait of authority and command. He stands above the analyst and places his hand on her shoulder, "Report. What do you have?"
She grimaces slightly when she sees his hairy hand on her shoulder. She quickly and succinctly summarizes what just came into her screen, "Sir, a phone call JUST came in and some of the keywords we've been scanning for. Potential blank body activity! It's still going on. I am running a trace now, sir."
The Commander smirks and slightly tightens his grip on his subordinate's shoulder. A light gasp escapes her lips, but she manages to retain her professional demeanor. Her fingers clatter against her keyboard, "Running a triangulation now. Tracing."
Things move across a grid map of Al-Kushraf city. Satellite imaging is also in operation. Her software runs at maximum efficiency as she types, clicks, and talks out loud as she does it. Her brow is slightly damp with some sweat, but her eyes remain wide open.
The Commander looks down and takes a moment to inspect his subordinate. He lecherously eyes her up and down, a small smirk on his face as he does so. His subordinate keeps her head facing straight forward, not really looking up at her superior officer. She's too busy tracing this phone call and following up on other alerts that come pouring into other systems.
She gets an exact lock on the phone signal's point of origin. She claps her hands together and gasps in satisfaction, "Got it! Some...old warehouse district, no longer in use. Should I dispatch the nearest team, sir?"
"Hmm, yes."
"Is it an ambush, s--sir?"
Commander Gallant smirks in a snug manner and grimly declares, "I hope it is. Good work, soldier. Tell the other teams to remain close and be on standby. Also, redirect our patrol units- make sure they cut off any and all road exits into and out of those coordinates."
The analyst nods, her hair bobbing in a stiff manner, and she makes those calls. Commander Gallant straightens his uniform and stands with his back straight and his head held high.
He authoritatively hollers out, "We have found them! I want drones up in the sky in 2 minutes! GO! GO! GO! GO!"
Lieutenant Hilda Klein approaches and firmly salutes her superior officer, "Yes, sir?"
The Commander nods and motions for her to approach closer. He lowers his voice and talks in her ear, "The blank bodies are there, Lt. Klein. If, God forbid, our first team is killed by these savages, I want YOU to lead the next squad. Take the grenade launchers, I know how much you like those."
Lt. Klein nods her head, "You know me too well, sir. Capture or kill?"
"If at all possible, capture at least 1 and kill the rest. I'd prefer that Suarez fellow, but any of these savages will do."
Lt. Klein salutes, turns on her heel, and briskly walks off to the Armory to suit up and gather the troops. Commander Gallant rubs his hands together and leans against the chair, waiting for his analysts to come in with more status updates.
A clash is inevitable.
Dark SUVs with tinted windows roar across the (mostly) empty streets of Al-Kushraf at breakneck speed. Some of these goons have submachine guns strapped to their chests or AP-ammo-loaded sidearms in their holsters. Most are dressed in civilian clothing whilst others have more a more obviously "tactical" look with bulky armored vests, gloves, and combat boots.
1 of the drivers calls the Command Center on an encrypted radio. A couple of operators sit at their terminals and listen.
"Command Center, this is Alef-2. Come in, Command Center?"
Lt. Veifer is on comms and replies, "We read you, Alef-2. ETA?"
"Less than 2 minutes."
"Remember the nature of your enemy. Flamethrower units are enroute. Utilize special shotgun ammo and stakes in close-quarter combat. Foes are known to utilize knives and swords. Exercise caution. Keep a distance at all times and do not get complacent, over."
"Roger that."
The driver turns the radio off. His compatriot sitting beside him and a couple of others in the backseat talk among each other. Some Israeli accents are mixed in with some British and American accents.
The driver has a strong British accent when he says, "They're savages, animals, demons...they're the spawn of hell itself. Just keep that in mind, lads. Stay strong, keep your chins up, and don't waste your fucking ammo."
Cheers and other sounds of agreement. A couple of guys have their hands over their hearts, muttering pointless prayers. Others load their guns and inspect their long wooden stakes. They know EXACTLY what they're up against. The driver, however, remains grimly stoic, keeping his eyes on the road.
It isn't long before 4 SUVs roll up to the abandoned warehouse. They stop to a screeching halt and dust trails behind them. A few operators get out and fan out. 3 of them are carrying automatic shotguns (loaded with whitey-p). The other carries a compact SMG. The drivers kill the engine and step out as well.
It's a few minutes before 3:00 AM. There aren't any streetlights out here. A few lights inside the warehouse illuminate some areas around the door.
Through a small crack, Samir spots the Inquisitors. He turns to face John, "They are here."
The Assamite nods and gathers his composure for the fight ahead, "Alright, people. Showtime. You know what you gotta do, so let's get to it."
Some Assamites have a little pep in their step as they march to the doors and wait. Most are tense. Some are worried about the prospect of their own impending demise.
Others put their backs to the wall and pull out whatever sharp melee weapon they've got and grip it tightly. John and Abdullah both look out through the small crack to survey their enemies. Abdullah mumbles something under his breath and does a small hand wave gesture.
John regards his friend with some concern, "More Blood Sorcery, huh?"
"I was practicing some techniques, habibi. Do not worry, I fed a little extra tonight, so I have a good store of Vitae."
John nods, his mind heavy with thoughts of concern and anxiety, "I hope this goes well, man."
Abdullah nods and continues surveying their enemies, "As do I, habibi. Their stakes are sharp, yes?"
John nervously touches his chest and gulps, "Mm-hmm. Don't even get me started on those fire-breathing shotguns of theirs."
"Hmm, yes."
Zeina circles around and readies her long dagger. She twirls it around and prepares herself for a long fight. John pulls out his katana and runs 2 of his fingers across its razor-sharp edge. He then reaches for the door and opens it up.
He strolls out first and flicks his sword around, "Took you fucks long enough, hm? Catch me if you can!" With that, he activates his Celerity Discipline, and his body starts to move much quicker than that of even the fastest mortal.
Some of the Inquisitors fire off warning shots as he zooms about like a mini whirlwind. Some of these rounds go wide and miss, some come close to hitting, and 1 almost burrows through John's flesh.
Zeina sighs and shakes her head, "Hmph, come. It is time..."
Samir uses Obfuscate to blend with the shadows. The darkness itself forms a cloak of protection around his body and conceals his form. He's now undetectable.
Svetlana, too, activates her Obfuscate Discipline and closes the wide gap between herself and the operatives who are wildly firing in the direction of John and the other Assamites who have got their own Disciplines in play.
With their superior speed, some Assamites use Celerity to cut off a few heads in the blink of an eye. 1 of the Inquisitors is frantically scanning for any enemies when a headless body tumbles and collapses in front of him. The head rolls forward and the lifeless eyes look up at him.
He jumps back in fright and curses in Hebrew. Svetlana gets within striking range and buries her dagger into his throat. She uses her other dagger to sever his spine in the blink of an eye and then hops onto another guy and gets to work.
Svetlana hears some screaming, the rapid crack of automatic weapons and shotguns, the wet, sharp, and violent sounds of pointy blades sinking into armor and flesh.
Samir creeps from shadow to shadow and pulls down on his target's arm and twists their neck. There's a wet "crunch" of snapping bones, tearing muscle, and puncturing organs. Svetlana sprints up to another guy and hacks at his legs with both her daggers.
Samir readies his poignard and quickly sinks it into the head of a thug with an automatic shotgun. Blood and brain matter leak onto his hands as he pushes it through the skull and twists it relentlessly. His victim lets out a weak wheeze and crumples to the ground like a rag doll.
Some of the Assamites don't last very long, however, and end up getting burned alive by the fiery shotty rounds.
John sees them turning to ash and screams out, "NO!" He quickly zooms past hails of suppressive fire and furiously slashes with his blade at some Inquisitor's backs.
Zeina does some acrobatics to dodge gunfire and then runs at an angle. She ducks as a volley of shots is sent her way, then quickly springs to her feet, grabs 1 of her enemies by the head and savagely guts them, plunging her dagger in and out, in and out of their belly.
Samir sneaks around, quietly taking out more and more of the goons from behind, getting to work with his poignard and preternatural strength.
Abdullah hides behind a rock and uses his Blood Sorcery to conjure up a tight protective circle around himself. With his bloodied fingers, he deftly draws a circle around himself, says the incantations in Arabic, and then slowly lifts his fingers up from the dirt.
He keeps his concentration and tries to lure some of these stray soldiers closer. Some fall for it, and they end up being taken out by either Abdullah's magic or Zeina's dagger.
Another Inquisitor stumbles when John runs at him, screaming at the top of his lungs as his katana slashes into the air and cuts his foe's head clean off. The head rolls off into some bushes and the body gushes blood out like a broken faucet. John doesn't bother to wipe the blood off his sword and dashes off to engage another goon with an incendiary shotgun.
This soldier shoots 2 whitey-p rounds at him, which are narrowly evaded.
Zeina takes her dagger and cuts 1 guy's stomach open. His intestines leak out onto the grass and soil, his hands frantically reach out to stuff them back in, but Zeina isn't done with him just yet. She yanks his head back and viciously drives her dagger into his mouth, the tip of it protruding from his forehead.
The soldier twitches a couple of times and then collapses onto the ground.
Samir runs up behind a soldier and slits her neck with his poignard. He immediately rematerializes and is pelted with shots from a submachine gun. Samir collapses and the Inquisitor smiles sadistically and moves forward to put his prisoner out of his misery. He readies a wooden stake.
"Hehe, this'll put you out of your misery, you sick f--"
Svetlana shanks him from behind and puts her knife in deep. He crumples and coughs blood into Samir's face.
Svetlana's face is twisted with determination and bestial rage, her hands and arms covered in blood and gore. She helps Samir up and jumps back into the fray of blood, gunfire, steel, and gore.
1 of the operatives screams in horror at the carnage. The gunfire continues to rattle. Some Assamites go down, others get wounded, and most keep up the pace, however.
This wave is almost whittled down. Drones watch the unfolding conflict from high up in the air, streaming the footage back to the Command Center.
Commander Gallant bites his thumb and frowns, "Oh, God of Israel. Grant us victory! Have mercy upon us!"
He makes a quick call, "Lt. Klein, ETA?"
"30 seconds. How bad is it?"
Commander Gallant sees 2 of his soldiers decapitated in a flash, their bodies falling and blood spurting and spraying everywhere. He grimaces at this sight, "Very. Hurry up. Our men and women are dying- they need help!"
John hacks off another soldier's hands, her blood squirts and stains his face. He finishes her off by slashing across her face, opening her eyes and the bridge of her nose and upper lip up in a spray of blood.
She screams as he does so. Her body falls and blood starts to pool under her.
John bares his fangs and wildly screeches into the air. Since he's been using his Celerity so much, he feels the eternal Hunger of his inner Beast begin to gnaw and claw at his mind.
He snarls and dashes to the closest trooper. He pulls them into a choke hold and savagely bites their throat open, tearing a huge chunk of it out. He continues to sink his fangs in and drain them until they're dead. As bullets whiz past him, he drinks deeply, feeling the warm and boiling blood rush through his throat.
After draining that trooper dry, his eyes become bloodshot. The world begins to turn red around him, his heart pumps rapidly in his ears, and he smells nothing but the metallic aroma of blood.
His hands shake uncontrollably, and he feels a shiver across his whole body. He stumbles and then quickly catches himself, the world still looking red to him.
The Beast within roars wildly and without restraint. John can feel his grasp slipping away as a feeling of raw, unadulterated, and primal bloodlust overtakes him.
He lets out a blood-curdling screech and sprints to his enemies with all haste, his claws fully out. His eyes look completely wild and unhinged, and he growls and snarls like an absolute maniac. He charges 2 troopers and viciously tears their heads off, the wet tearing sounds of flesh, muscle, and bone causing others to take notice of this...
Frenzying Assamite.
Oh, no. This is not good. Whatever was in that blood that John drank, it's clearly messed with his entire mind, and it's triggered a Frenzy.
1 of the soldiers sees this and starts to retreat. Svetlana catches her and finishes her off by plunging her blade in and out of her chest.
Some of the other Assamites follow John's idea and bite into their foes. The result is immediate, and it is messy. They begin to Frenzy out of control and go nuts, slashing, biting, and clawing their way to whoever is nearby, be they friend or foe.
Oh, god.
Svetlana gasps when a Frenzying Assamite pounces on her and tries to bite into her jugular. She rolls her over and kicks them away. Zeina runs to help but is pulled back by a trooper and the tip of their wooden stake nearly stabs into her back.
Zeina gasps, rolls, and pushes herself back up to her feet. She fights the stake-wielder who manages to push her onto her back again. She's pelted with some SMG fire and screams out in pain as a few bullets go through her midriff.
Zeina grits her teeth and shrieks as she rolls her hips forward, twists around, and kicks at her enemy with both legs. She takes her long dagger and shanks her foe right in their kidney area. Her victim cries out in pain and tries to shoot her again.
The shots go wild.
Svetlana struggles and groans and tries, with all her preternatural might, to get this Frenzying vampire off of her. Her strength would give her an edge, but not when it's matched with similar power.
Her arms get pinned to the ground, her attacker's face mere inches away from hers. She can see his fangs and that empty look in his eyes. She screams and pleads with him to snap out of it, but it's in vain.
Svetlana closes her eyes and lets out a weak cry, "NO! NYET! STOP! N--"
Her screams are drowned out by the crackle of SMG fire. The Frenzying Kindred leaps towards the source of the gunfire and rips them apart with his fangs and sharp claws.
The trooper cries out, "YAAAAA!" as he's being torn apart and drained. Her blood sprays across the ground. Her cries become softer as her life force slowly leaves her and makes it way down the throat of this Frenzying vamp.
Samir comes to Zeina's aid and finishes off the stake-wielder by plunging his poignard right in their gut, twisting it around, and then kicking them off it.
His eyes widen in shock when a Frenzying John pounces on him in a blurry flash and savagely bites his shoulder. Samir cries out in pain and tries to pry him off, but to no avail. He reaches for something, anything, but nothing is nearby. His poignard lies on the ground, a few feet away from him.
He feels the sharp, gnashing fangs tear his flesh, muscle, and sinew apart. His vision starts to get hazy. He lets out a howl of pain and screams for help.
Abdullah is shocked by this recent development. He musters up the courage and uses some of his Blood Sorcery to try and perhaps, un-Frenzy, his fellow Assamites who have fallen to their most base and bestial instincts and urges.
The Frenzying Assamites look up when he chants in Arabic, "Stop this at once! Stop this insanity!" With blood flowing from his wrist, he waves his arm about.
Nothing. The Frenzying vamps, or those who are on the edge of it, charge forward and try to slash at him, tear into him, and drink deeply from his veins.
He yelps and dodges away as the next wave approaches. Lt. Hilda Klein steps out of a large van, about a dozen soldiers behind her, and they immediately start unloading on the Frenzying bloodsuckers with their shotguns and flamethrowers.
Flesh gets torn apart. The screams are horrible and terrible. Those who haven't yet Frenzied still don't know that it's whatever these Israeli psychos are juicing up with that's causing this. They begin to contemplate falling back.
John has almost completely Frenzied now, his entire body feels hot with blind rage and insatiable Hunger, and nothing else. Samir manages to flee from him, but his wounds take time to mend themselves.
Whatever those Zionists maniacs have been injecting into their bloodstreams is dangerous stuff. That CEDP (Combat-Enhancing Drug Protocol) stuff apparently causes a vampire to enter an uncontrollable Frenzy when they drink the blood of its carriers.
But, why? And how? Who, in their right mind, would make such a vile concoction and who would inject it if they knew its contents? It's probably part and parcel of Unit 8211's interpretation of the infamous Hannibal Directive.
Let the vamps drink and drain the soldier dry, and they'll all go wild, uncontrollably so, and it'll make it easier to wipe them out. If the soldier dies, the soldier dies. Better than letting them become a warm meal for a bloodsucker out on the battlefield, eh?
Sheesh.
These Frenzying vamps start running wild, slashing their everyone apart and tearing anyone who dares cross their line of sight.
Abdullah retreats and tries to cast another Blood Sorcery spell, but it is no good. It fails. His eyes widen in fear as John dashes forward and goes in to savagely attack him with his claws and fangs.
The young Blood Sorcerer holds out his hands, dripping with Vitae, and pleads, "No, habibi! NO! Stop! STOP!" He braces himself for the inevitable.
"NO!" Samir leaps in front of John and tackles him to the side. Still in the state of Frenzy, John snarls and makes all sorts of angry noises as he viciously swipes, bites, and kicks his opponent away.
Samir tries his best to dodge those claws. They're so close, however, that John manages to slash Samir's mouth and open it up on the left side. Samir stumbles back in pain and hisses. His tongue feels loosened. His flesh and muscles tear apart.
Svetlana dodges someone wielding a flamethrower, but she still struggles to close the distance as she runs in the opposite direction of those singeing flames. The flames behind her crackle. She cries out when they get a little too close for comfort.
The heat is enough to sear some of her clothing. Svetlana screams as the flames continue to burn. Her Rötschreck is triggered, and she bolts back to the warehouse without daring to look back at those bright, orange flames.
Samir grasps John by the throat and squeezes him as tightly as he can, trying to choke him or do something to snap him out of this mad state. His opponent, however, is so Frenzied that it does little to no good.
Abdullah helps Zeina up and uses another Blood Sorcery spell to conjure up some of that ol' reliable red mist. The operatives caught in it get choked up and drop dead to the ground almost immediately. Froth comes out of their mouths, their bodies spasm, and their eyes roll up into their skulls.
Lt. Hilda Klein takes notice of the carnage and readies her grenade launcher. She smirks and aims it in the general direction of a few Frenzying Assamites coming her way. She squeezes the trigger, and the explosive round flies right at the vamps, exploding in their faces and blowing their limbs off.
Those who aren't destroyed on sight writhe on the ground or fall into a Torpor from the shock alone.
Lt. Klein gives them no chance. She orders a few of her troops to finish them off. They step closer, aim for the head (or what might remain of it), and blast each and every one of them into fiery smithereens with their weapons.
She grimly chuckles at their misfortune and prepares her next shot as the destroyed Kindred crumble to ash and get scattered across the light and arid wind of this desert.
The carnage is unlike anything any of these operatives has seen thus far. Lt. Klein's soldiers continue to mop up and press the advantage.
In a fit of pure desperation, Abdullah tries an obscure Blood Sorcery technique, something he was just looking into the other night and hasn't perfected it just yet. He draws some Arabic letters on the ground, repeats the words to himself, and rushes towards John.
He smears his magical Vitae all over John and pushes him down, "John! Please! Please!" Abdullah tries his hardest to keep John from slashing his face up with those deadly claws of his.
Abdullah pleads and lets some of the Blood leak from his wrist and down into John's gaping maw, "No, John! Stop! You cannot go on like this! It will be the end of us, the end of you! Stop it, habibi! PLEASE!"
He shakes him with all his might as he desperately tries to calm his friend down, "STOP! HABIBI! This is not you! Put the Beast back in control, make it know its place once again." Sanguine tears roll down the Blood Sorcerer's cheeks.
John growls and hisses and snaps at Abdullah, desperately trying to rip his own friend to pieces and drain him dry. Abdullah clenches his jaw, shuts his eyes, and pushes as hard as he can against John's wild strength and sheer power.
After a moment, John spasms and his body twitches and jerks, but the Frenzy seems to subside somewhat. The wild look in his eyes dies down, his growls turn into groans, and he begins to regain some of his senses.
The shooting and killing still continues, however. Inquisitors corner the Frenzying Assamites and finish them off. Those that remain have started to fall back, not wishing to take any more risks. They've sort of figured out the source of the Frenzy but aren't quite sure yet.
1 of the Inquisitors tries to sneak up on Svetlana, who is still recovering from that her primal fear of the fire. She wildly finishes them off by maniacally stabbing into them until their blood comes out in torrents, drenches her hands and face, and stains her clothing.
Her eyes are completely bloodshot, and the look of utter, raw, primal fury has taken her completely. She can still feel the fire from that flamethrower licking at the back of her mind and burning at her memory.
Zeina hobbles and limps to some nearby solid cover and groans in pain as her wounds begin to close and heal themselves. The bullets come out of her, her vampiric body begins to heal itself, and her flesh knits itself together.
Samir looks over his shoulder and musters up some Vitae to disappear from sight altogether. Clutching his poignard, he slinks back to a safer spot.
John has subsided and (seemingly) recovered from the mad Frenzy he was in. Abdullah helps him up and they limp towards the other Assamites, dodging stray shotgun pellets and SMG bullets along the way.
Zeina pokes her head out of her cover, sees Abdullah, and cries out to him, "Abdullah, here! QUICKLY!"
John's head is spinning, and he can barely let out a legible and cogent sentence, "The f--fuck...?"
Abdullah grabs John and leads him to cover as well, "We have no time for questions! We have to leave now!"
The rest of the Assamites fall back towards the warehouse.
John clutches his head and winces, "What happened? Last thing I remember was biting into 1 of these assholes for a quick top-up. Next--next thing I...just start seeing red. I lose control and--and--!" He looks up at Abdullah with a sense of confused urgency.
Abdullah puts a hand on his shoulder and tells him, "There's no time to worry about that right now, habibi. We have to leave! There--there are too many of them and not enough of us! They--they--"
He peeks from his cover and watches the Unit 8211 thugs flame out a few more Frenzying vamps in quick succession. Their remains are left on the dirt. The operatives all reload their weapons, but that's all he sees.
He slinks back behind cover, and he gasps in fear, "They--they're destroying us! WE HAVE TO FLEE!"
Svetlana shakily points out, "We have no vehicle, nothing! How can we do that?! We have to fight!"
Samir joins in, "NO! It is simply too dangerous!! Abdullah is right. This is a lost battle! We need to leave. NOW! We should take 1 of their vehicles and drive as fast as we can!"
Zeina agrees, "We can't take these odds, Svetlana! There's too many of them and too few of us! And we have already lost so many..." her voice trails off as she says some of the names of those who either Frenzied or perished.
John lets out a loud exhale and grimly nods, "OK, OK. I--I feel...weird. We--We take 1 of those damn vehicles out there, drive as fast and as far as we can, and then we ditch it. We...make plans from there."
He shakes his head a few times, like a dog drying itself, and says, "Alright, alright. OK, I've got it. I feel so...alive. What--what did I just drink??" He peeks around the corner and sees the carnage that Unit 8211 is wreaking, the absolute carnage and devastation they have wrought with these flamethrowers, incendiary rounds, and...
His eyes widen and he calls out, "Oh, shit! Look out!"
Lt. Klein aims her grenade launcher in the direction of the Assamites and fires. The grenade whistles through the air and lands just in front of the Assamites, right near the corner where they're all taking cover behind.
They hiss and begin to disperse. Some dirt and small pebbles get blasted back from the impact area, but the main blast is somewhat diffused by the solid cover that the Assamites are taking.
Zeina lets out a sharp cry of pain and grabs the right side of her abdomen, where she was hit with that SMG fire earlier. The bullet holes in her shirt seem to have closed up, but she's still a little sore there.
John seems to back to his regular self. He looks on in horror as some Frenzying Kindred tear each other apart or run towards the Israeli forces to be burned to a crisp and reduced to ashes. Others who have fallen are swiftly finished off with incendiary rounds or flamethrowers to the face.
They crumble into dust. The Unit 8211 operatives let out a hearty and united cheer of joy and celebration for each of the vampires they destroy. They advance forward while Lt. Klein fires more 'nades, pushing the remaining vamps further back into the warehouse.
They're cornered with no way out. The surviving Judges decide that commandeering a vehicle and making their getaway is the only viable option.
Between them and the available vehicles, however, are a bunch of juiced-up fascist psychos with weaponry meant specifically for vampire extermination and elimination.
The Assamites slowly crawl backwards towards the warehouse. They have no other choice; they have to push and fight their way through these operators, grab a vehicle (anything large enough to fit all of them in), and DRIVE the fuck outta here!
But, where to? Well, driving back to Elysium is simply dumb and it's quite far away. Their respective Havens are out of the question for reasons obvious.
As the Assamites are pondering this, Abdullah lifts his bloodied finger into the air and exclaims, "What about where that Nosferatu told us to meet him? The...westside tunnels or something, yes??"
Zeina and Svetlana look at each other, and the latter fearfully asks, "Is--Is that good idea? We do not know if it is safe, Abdullah!"
The Blood Sorcerer counters by desperately saying, "What other choice do we have? WE NEED a destination. We cannot keep driving and driving without purpose. We need a safe location to lose our foes. I believe that tunnel is our best chance."
Svetlana and Zeina shrug and agree to this suggestion. As do John, Samir, and the remainder of the surviving Assassins.
They're up against a couple dozen heavily armed Zionist shits who all have combat-enhancing drugs in their bloodstreams. Not to mention, shotguns with whitey-p, flamethrowers, and SMGs with painful AP rounds.
Oh, and Lt. Hilda's got a fucking grenade launcher. The drones buzz in the sky and continue to relay live footage back to the Command Center.
Commander Obed cracks a small smile of wicked satisfaction and speaks to Lt. Hilda, "Good work, Lt. Klein. You've got them cornered. Now, go in and finish them off. Capture at least 1, if possible, for questioning."
Lt. Klein puts her fingers to her earpiece and gives him the affirmative, "Understood, sir."
She fires off 1 last grenade that blows the flimsy warehouse doors open. They fall right off their hinges, and a huge plume of dust and dirt flies in all directions. Some of the dust hits the faces of the Assamites and the Inquisitors who were just behind Lt. Klein begin opening fire.
They advance with caution and orderly discipline. Lt. Hilda orders a 3-person team to spread out and secure the perimeter. Her operatives fan out. Some take cover near the fallen doors while another 3 prepare to move inside, checking the corners of the warehouse for any surprises.
Well, it's either now or never!
While his head still thumps and reels, John yells out, "GO! GO! GO!" and he pushes himself forward with all his might and main. The rest follow his lead. They sprint towards the fallen doors and try to use them as cover, hoping to make a quick getaway.
The Assamites run around the fallen doors and make a mad dash for 1 of the large vehicles parked out near the front of the warehouse. The Zionists see this and immediately begin to fire at the Assamites, their rounds pelting the ground and sending small pebbles flying everywhere.
Some of the bullets hit, but the vampires either slash or keep pushing forward to the vehicles.
Lt. Klein notices the surge of bloodsuckers headed her way. She makes quick tactical hand signals and orders a few flamethrower units to advance and light up the oncoming and blurry wave of speed and violence tobogganing straight towards them.
A young Assamite in a niqab is the first to reach the vehicle and pulls the driver's side door open. She looks around and hisses at her allies, "YALLA! YALLA!"
Since there are quite a few vampires still remaining, fitting into this big van is not gonna cut it. John whooshes to a nearby SUV, deflects some bullets with his katana, and yanks the door open.
Lt. Klein quickly pulls out her pistol and takes a few shots at the vampires trying to make a vehicular getaway. John asks Samir to drive while he quickly dashes off in a blur and slashes the tires of the other vehicles.
Smart.
Samir clambers into the driver's seat and turns the ignition. The engine rumbles to life while Svetlana, Zeina, Abdullah, and a few other Judges dodge volleys of gunfire and potshots from the Zionist Inquisitors.
John blinks back in hollers, "DRIVE! GO! GO! JUST GO, SAMIR!"
The window is bulletproof (heh), so Samir puts his foot all the way down on the accelerator and floors the gas. The van peels out and takes off with a burst of speed and a squealing noise, as does the SUV containing the other batch of surviving Assassins.
Samir steers the wheel and manages to get them out onto the rocky night road, where he picks up some speed and drives straight ahead, not bothering to look back.
John sharply exhales and takes a moment to sit back and gather his composure. He looks around the van's interior and notices some hi-tech and advanced-looking equipment lying around.
He shakes his head and remarks, "We can't use any of this shit. They've got trackers on everything." Then, he realizes something.
"Oh, shit," he peeks out the window and sees a fleet of small, buzzing drones hot on their tail, "They've got fucking drones up above! NO!"
Samir nods, grips the steering wheel tighter, and presses his foot against the gas pedal a little harder.
Abdullah groans and slices his arm with his claw. He shuts his eyes, gently twists his hand in a certain direction, and a bright red mist floats out of his wounds. He chants under his breath.
A few of the drones explode in mid-air and come crashing down. John, Svetlana, Zeina, and Abdullah gasp in surprise as some drone debris hits the car's roof.
Lt. Klein hollers at Commander Gallant back in the Command Center, "Those animals took 2 vehicles and disabled the rest! WE NEED wheels ASAP!"
Commander Gallant responds, "Yes...we--we just lost them. Our drone feeds are all gone. Luckily, we have tracking devices on all our vehicles. Replacement vehicles arriving shortly. ETA: 2 minutes."
Lt. Klein scoffs, spittle flying out her mouth, "2 minutes?! I need them here in 30 seconds!"
Commander Gallant sternly reprimands his Lieutenant, "Hilda, do not raise your voice at me! These are your orders. Obey them! WAIT for the vehicles to arrive and continue your pursuit. We're tracking them now."
Lt. Klein frowns and her shoulders slump, "Yes, Commander Gallant. Apologies." She and the remaining Inquisitors continue their sweep while their replacement vehicles take their sweet time to show up.
The other Assamites in the van continue driving along, having for the time being, lost their foes. They all look so tired, broken, and defeated.
In the SUV, Zeina, who is sitting right behind John, reaches over and grabs his shoulder and looks him straight in the eye, "John...WHAT happened there?!"
John shrugs her hand off his shoulder, "I--I dunno, Zeina. Like I said, I bit into that bastard, drained 'em, and the next thing I--I know, I'm losing myself."
Zeina frowns, "Why? Why did you do such a thing?"
John doesn't answer that, and he merely replies, "I...I was hungry, Zeina. I thought it'd be safe, y'know, biting from our enemies, but that doesn't seem to be the case, huh?" he forces a laugh to ease the tension.
He leans forward, places his head in his hands, and tries to make some sense of this mess. He rubs the sides of his head with his stained fingers and winces as he still feels some of that whatever linger in his vampiric body.
"I taste...all kinds of stuff. Drugs, like...a whole lot. What are these fuckin' Israeli maniacs having for dinner? Steroid pancakes?! Ugh, it tastes so...metallic."
Abdullah's eyes have a faraway gaze in them as he mulls over what he has witnessed. He shakes his head and says, "It is indeed possible that the Zionists have done something to their blood, what exactly it is eludes me, however. Maybe someone with more knowledge of the Blood would be capable of enlightening us on this disturbing matter."
John turns to his Childe and says, "That Irish Tremere buddy of yours, maybe? Right?"
Svetlana plainly nods, "Da. Maybe Saoirse can help. But I would not be so certain- she is busy with her work."
Abdullah sighs, "I am sure this Usurper you speak of can help, Svetlana. There are many who know the secrets of the Blood, yes, but the Usurpers...their knowledge, walla, is unmatched and unparalleled."
Zeina grunts and scoffs, "So, what?! We cannot drink from our foes, then?! How are we supposed to--?"
Samir keeps his hands on the steering wheel and interjects, "That doesn't matter, Zeina! We simply have to rely on our strength and power. We'll have to keep our usage of Disciplines to a minimum, if such a thing were possible."
He swerves when he sees a fancy car zoom past him at a speed way beyond the prescribed speed limit (even on an empty stretch of road). He slams the brakes the car comes to a screeching halt.
Another fancy car zooms past in a blur, the tires on that one burning rubber.
Samir curses under his breath and continues, "The most important thing right now is not to panic. We have to find a way out of this, and we have to do it now. What was--what was--"
Another car whooshes past.
John's face scrunches in confusion and he looks outside to see even more cars approaching them. They don't look like they're for urban warfare, though. No, they look like they're meant for...
Street racing, of the questionably legal kind.
A pitch-black, shiny IRCO-Z with a matte-gray underbelly is in the lead, the other cars trailing not so far behind. John recognizes that IROC-Z. He jumps out of the hijacked vehicle and waves his arms frantically, yelling, "Stop! STOP! That's us! STOP!"
N0S4A2, the helmeted Caitiff racecar driver, hits the brakes and comes to a stop right at the side of the road. The other cars behind them zoom past, leaving them in last place. Yikes. They've got a rep to uphold and keep up.
N0S4A2 throws open the car door and hops out, a black and red jumpsuit on them. Their helmet remains on their head. They walk around the back and raise their chin, "What?"
John's eyes narrow, and he desperately says, "We need your help."
"No help," the Freestyler responds, their voice muffled and distorted.
John gets angry and hollers, "We're desperate here, OK?! There are some real bad people after us and we need someone good with wheels, someone who knows this city, and someone who can get us out of this! So, can you help us or not?!?!"
The Freestyler tilts their head and replies, "Why me?"
John gestures to his tattered and bloody demeanor, "Because you know this turf better than anyone else, because you're a damn good driver, and because I've seen you behind that wheel before."
N0S4A2 shrugs and looks at the others in the 2 vehicles, "What do you need?"
John explains, "We've got bad people after us. Second Inquisition. You know what that is, right?"
"Don't care for that."
"Hmph, whatever. We need you to--to uh...get us to a place. You know the westside sewer entrance. Some um...large tunnels. It's supposed to be somewhere near here."
"I know."
John exhales sharply and the hairs on his arm slowly stand on end, "Yeah, you know that. Good, good. Can you--can you help us? Please?"
N0S4A2 thinks it over, then replies, "I'll take you NEAR to the westside sewer entrance. I cannot do more than that--"
Zeina cuts off the Caitiff by hissing, "WHY will you not help us, Clanless??! Who even are you?"
N0S4A2 ignores her and gets back in their car. They gun their engine, pull off a quick and skilled U-turn, and peel off down the road. The Assamites and their 2 vehicles follow suit, albeit much more nervously.
Samir and John look at each other and shrug. Samir grips the steering wheel tight and focuses on keeping up with the skilled race driver in front of him. The other Assamite driving that other vehicle also keeps up, although it's clear she's having trouble keeping up with N0S4A2's speed.
N0S4A2's driving is measured, skilled, and controlled. No wild moves, no sudden turns, no reckless speeding. Just precise, calculated maneuvers and driving.
This is a professional who's likely been at it for YEARS.
It's not long before a fleet of dark and bulky SUVs roll up to the side of the road, their engines growling and their headlights bright as hell. A few Inquisitors emerge out of the lead vehicle and aim their guns at the Assamites and their 2 vehicles.
The Judges see this and panic, trying their best to speed up.
John orders Samir, "Get close to that Caitiff! We need to warn 'em!!"
Samir screams and rams an enemy SUV off the road. It swerves and hits a large rock, its tires smoking and squealing. The Inquisitor riding shotgun flies out the window and falls to the ground.
John shouts, "PUNCH it!"
Samir rolls aside the IROC-Z and John motions for the Caitiff to roll down their window. The window rolls down, N0S4A2 keeps their eyes locked on the road ahead- this one's quite bumpy, but they're doing fine.
"Listen, you have to get us out of this!" John urgently says, "Do you understand?? Also, we're being chased! They got guns that shoot fire! You understand what that means, right?"
N0S4A2 merely nods as way of response, closes their window, and picks up the speed, their headlights glaring brightly.
Samir is about to say something when he notices that the other Assamite driving the other car is getting boxed in by 2 large vans. He looks around, his eyes widening in fear, and then he notices 2 more large vans closing in from behind.
He slams his foot on the brakes and the SUV's tires screech. The vans speed ahead and 1 of them smashes into an electric pole. Samir floors the gas pedal and rams the other van from behind, causing it to lose control and tumble, but whoever's driving it rams the side of the SUV, causing it to drift off a bit.
Samir groans and tries to get the van off him, but it's too strong. He slams on the brakes, and the van comes to a screeching halt.
John hollers and dashes out of the car, "Samir, go--"
Before John can bolt off to be a roadside hero, Abdullah grasps his arm and says, "Wait, wait!" The Blood Sorcerer then conjures up some trustworthy sanguine spell of his and directs it to everyone in that van.
The sounds of bursting heads and bodies are heard from inside the van. All the occupants are dead, and the van lazily swerves off the road and hits a tree with a gentle thud.
John's eyes widen and he gawks in awe, "Dude...you're amazing! Holy shit! Thanks, Abdullah. Really, we--we don't know what we'd do without you, kid."
The Blood Sorcerer gives him an appreciative nod, and he sits back and winces as the cuts on his arms begin to close themselves.
Abdullah smiles tightly, "It was nothing, habibi, really."
It isn't long before N0S4A2 escorts the 2 vehicles to the intended location. Once there, the Unbound doesn't bother with any goodbyes or whatever. They take a turn and zoom off into the night, leaving a trail of dust in their speedy wake.
John shakes his head at this, "Pfft, well at least they came through at our hour of need. Ah, well..."
He gets out of the SUV and the other Assamites quickly jump out of their van and start to look around. There's a large, gaping tunnel in front of them. The concrete walls around are covered in graffiti, flyers for events long past, and other random bits of urban street art.
Zeina gets out of the vehicle and starts sniffing the air. She grimaces and gags at the pungent odor of the nearby sewer system. Samir hops off, rolls his shoulders, and pops his neck with a tight pop.
Svetlana steps out and looks behind her. She gulps deeply as she notices a vague shimmer in the distance. A vague, ghostly shimmer. Muffled giggling sounds follow soon after. Little Chloe's Wraith is swooshing nearby, laughing and chortling.
John senses something is off his eyes widen. He looks up and around and then his face scrunches up in concern. His brow furrows, and he says, "I can feel something..."
Abdullah steps out of the car and leans against it, a look of tiredness and exhaustion on his face. He closes his eyes and mutters under his breath, "I can feel it, too, habibi. It--It feels as if a thousand eyes are staring right at--at all of us."
A high-pitched cooing sound, like that from a dove (!), immediately catches the attention of the gathered Assassins. They swerve their heads around and 1 of them points up to the sky.
Svetlana shakily follows the pointed finger, "Look--look up!"
Everyone looks up and their jaws drop when they see a dove flying around and making cooing sounds. It coos and coos and flies figure eights around the entrance to the nearby tunnel.
John tilts his head and asks, "What the hell is going on here? A dove, the last time we saw--"
Realization dawns on Svetlana, "Dove. P--Prince Angela..." Her eyes glimmer with something resembling hope.
Apparently, the now-slain Prince of Dubai turned nearly every dove in her Domain into a Famulus (animal Blood-Bound to a Kindred). As a Gangrel, she had access to the Animalism Discipline, so that made things considerably easy to pull off.
It's only been mere weeks since her destruction. It's likely that most of the doves have either died or, somehow, managed to find their way all the way here.
The dove continues its (almost) clueless flight pattern, and it does eventually fall to the ground with a thud. Blood leaks from its hollow and beady eyes.
Svetlana kneels down and inspects the dead animal. With bloody tears rolling down her cheeks, she strokes it and swallows the lump of pain in her throat.
John puts his hand on her shoulder, "It was Prince Angela's trademark, wasn't it? The doves?"
Svetlana sniffles, "The Dove Prince...gone."
John comforts his Childe, "I know, Svetlana. I know. Now, c'mon, let's get outta here before--"
Too late, a fleet of vehicles, both SUVs and the like, come barreling towards the Assamites from the right. They park on the road, and the occupants pour out, weaponry at the ready.
Lt. Klein hops out of a passenger side and unholsters her pistol, "Blank bodies! There! Engage! Engage!"
The Assamites immediately bolt towards the dark and dingy maw of the sewer entrance. Abdullah, the last one to enter, casts a quick spell to delay the pursuers.
The Zionist forces open fire, and a hail of bullets come raining down on the fleeing Assamites. Garth the Nosferatu hurries over to the Assamites with a look of shock in his sickly eyes. His face is covered and his thawb looks like it's been stitched back up for the 100th time, which it likely has been.
"What the hell have you lot done?! You were supposed to kill them and bring us--"
John cuts off the Nossie, "We--we couldn't! We just couldn't. Look, we need help, man. They followed us here. We...we had no other choice; we don't know this damn city that well. And--and we were outta options."
Garth scoffs, "This is bloody mental! You've brought these maniacs straight to us! Couldn't you have at least shaken them off?"
John shakes his head and bends over. He has his hands cupped around his knees and he still looks a bit rattled from all the nasty sloshing in his bloodstream. He forces a few deep breaths out of his lungs.
He shakes his head and says, "We had to take their cars, and they track all their shit, so...yeah."
Garth grunts and hits a nearby wall in anger. Some bits of concrete and mortar fly off and land on the floor with a clatter. He lets out a growl and looks at the Assamites standing in front of him, huddled together, furtive, and vulnerable.
The Crawler clicks his tongue and looks at the approaching thugs, "Thomas is going to shank me for this..."
Zeina asks, "What do you intend to do with us, Crawler?"
Garth avoids making eye contact with any of his fellow Kindred, his gaze entirely focused on the hard and rough ground beneath his feet. He lets out a grunt, and he doesn't really answer her, so she speaks up again, "Answer me, please! They are coming and Abdullah's Blood Magic can only hold them off for so long!"
A few yells of pain echo throughout the tunnels as the SI thugs fall prey to whatever surprise the tired Blood Sorcerer left for them at the entrance.
Garth groans and declares, "You're coming with me, down into the sewers, our Domain. All of you. It's not like we 'ave much of a bloody choice, eh? Thomas is not going to be too pleased, I sure am not, but we've gotta do it, so let's bloody do it, right?"
John's eyes are still darting about, and his fingers are twitching, "The sewers, eh? I guess beggars can't be choosers. So, we stick close to you, correct?"
Garth firmly answers, "Yes, unless you WANT to get lost in the forks, nooks, and crannies of dark, smelly, and slimy tunnels that are only known to us Nosferatu like the backs of our oft-times twisted hands. Stay fucking close, don't wander, don't stray, and try to keep up."
A few SMG bullets whiz past and come in contact with the walls and the floor. They ricochet, and a few of the bullets lodge themselves in the bodies of some of the other Kindred. They grunt and curse their luck.
Garth sneers, "Shit. Tommy won't like me leading those arseholes down into our spaces. Someone must stay behind--"
John explodes and objects, "Fuck that! Either we all go or we all stay, but we are not splitting up! We stick together! If the plan is to run, then we do that together. If we're gonna fight, then we all do that together!"
Garth counters, "You don't understand, Assamite! If these Inquisitors even get an inkling of what's down in our sewers, there won't BE a Kindred Society in this bloody city anymore! This is bigger than all of us! It will be a shattering of the Masquerade!"
John scoffs, "Well, too fucking bad, cuz this is how it's gonna go, Garth. Either we all come with you or--"
Abdullah steps forward and gently pushes John aside, "I will stay and hold them off, habibi. Promise me that you will get them all to safety." There's grim determination on the young Blood Sorcerer's hollow face.
Garth is genuinely taken aback by this proposition, "What?! You? You--you're just a kid, mate! Why can't John or 1 of the others hang back--"
Abdullah lifts his chin, and a sense of resolve fills his dead eyes, "No. I am a Blood Sorcerer amongst my Clan. I...am the only one who can do this, who is--who is capable of holding these Zionists back long enough for you to escort my--my friends to safety."
John shakes his head vigorously, "NO! NO! Abdullah, no! They'll fucking overwhelm you and--"
Abdullah softly smiles, "I have made my peace with whatever comes my way, habibi. Do not fret. Now, go. Quickly. I will make sure you are all safe and sound. They will not follow you into your Domain, Crawler. Your secrets, precious as they are, will remain safe."
This is Abdullah Rachman's final stand. He knows it. Tears of blood drip down his face, and he holds out his hand to Garth, "It was a pleasure making your acquaintance, Mr. Garth. I wish we could've gotten to know each other a little more."
Garth shakes his head and even his eyes well up with blood, "You can--can't do this, mate. Let someone else stay back and hold 'em off."
Abdullah plainly says, "The others have fought and struggled enough, habibi. I am the only one who is capable of this, and I will not allow more of my fellow Judges to meet Final Death on this night. Now, go. Quickly!"
John grabs Abdullah and tries to pull him away, but the young Blood Sorcerer stands firm.
John stops and cups the kid's cheeks with his hands, "You--you don't have to this, Abdullah! You still have SO MUCH to live for, so much to see, to experience--"
The Syrian kid points out, "For all my life- and Unlife- I have known only injustice. The Zionists destroyed my village, turned the rest of my family into refugees. Most of my extended family...they are all dead. Even before I came of age, I have borne witness to so much loss and trauma..."
He looks over his shoulder at the approaching thugs, who have been somewhat delayed by Abdullah's sanguine and sorcerous delaying tactics.
He looks back at the vampires in front of him, "When I turned 19, I made the choice to join the Blade of Haqim, to be Embraced into the Banu Haqim Clan. I did so, so that 1 night I might be able to Judge my enemies and bring about a better and more dignified world for all, Kindred or mortal--"
Svetlana pulls him in for a tight hug, red tears rolling down her face, "Abdullah! Please!"
John, Zeina, and a few of the others gather around the brave and selfless Blood Sorcerer from the Golan Heights. Abdullah's hands are outstretched and he's chanting under his breath.
John pulls him into a tight hug, the 2 embracing in a firm and cordial embrace, "You are an amazing, amazing person, Abdullah. Not just the best damn Blood Sorcerer I've ever met, but a--a friend, too. And--and I know the others here will tell you the same thing. So...thank you. Thank you."
Abdullah gives John his phone and wallet. John silently takes it and lowers his head.
Svetlana wipes her sanguine tears away and hugs him tightly, "Thank you, for saving me that evening...when John Embraced me."
"At first, I was not sure who John was Embracing, but you, Svetlana...you have proven to be 1 of us. The Judges, the Blade...they need someone like you, Svetlana. Someone who sees things with such clarity, someone who speaks her mind and does not abide injustice where it festers."
The scum are closing in, sending a few pot shots and rounds into the air, their bullets falling like horizontal rain.
Abdullah continues, "It has been an honor serving alongside you, and I wish--I wish I could have 'lived' long enough to see Syria again, but on nights such as these, I know not whether there will even be a Syria, let alone a better world..." he trails off.
The others have sanguine tears of sadness running down their faces as they all give the young Kindred a proper send-off. They hug and embrace him, telling him how much they appreciate him, how much they'll miss him, and how much he means to them.
"As-salamu alaykum, habibi."
"Wa alaykumu s-salam," Abdullah responds with a tight smile.
Garth's face is tear-streaked as well, "Mate...you don't 'ave to do this--"
Abdullah looks up at the other Assamites, then he turns towards Garth, "Please, habibi. Make sure they all get to safety. Guide them, watch over them, they have suffered through a lot- we all have."
A bullet grazes Garth's shin, and he grimaces at the painful impact. He looks down at the wound, then back up at the Sorcerer. He nods and begins ushering the remainder of the Assamites deeper into the tunnel, "If--If you're certain, mate."
John turns around and calls out, "I'll come back for you!!"
Abdullah faintly chuckles and shakes his head, "No, habibi. But...avenge me and the others. Judge all of these wretched Zionists. May your blades be coated in their blood from here to Damascus. Take that fury, that hunger and thirst for justice, throughout all the world, my friends!"
John turns around and gets 1 last look at his best buddy, his eyes filled with so much pain, grief, and heartache. He wants to scream, to shout, to slash and speed around, but he forces himself to stay calm, to not cry any more than he already has.
Abdullah Rachman, 19-years-old at the time of his Embrace, of the Blade of Haqim of the Banu Haqim Clan, originally from the Golan Heights in Syria, is truly 1 of the kindest, bravest, most noble, and selfless people John Suarez has had the pleasure of knowing.
And he will be dearly missed by all those whose Unlives he touched and/or saved.
Abdullah has effectively given up his Unlife to buy time, to make sure that his fellow Blade members flee to safety and get another chance to fight another night.
This is their moment to leave, to run, to get outta here and figure out what is to be done from here on out, because this just can't go on. There are simply not enough Blade members to keep fighting against the Unit 8211 threat.
No, something's gotta change, something's gotta give. Other Kindred need to get involved in this battle.
John keeps looking behind him as he and the others run further into the tunnels, until Abdullah's figure disappears from sight. Then, he turns around and looks at Garth, his eyes still wet and full of tears, "WE HAVE TO GO BACK FOR HIM!"
Garth marches forward and puts a hand on John's shoulder, "Listen, you can't. You--you can't."
The Assamite's eyes widen, and he growls, "What are you saying, Garth?! WHY the fuck not?! What kind of secrets are you people protecting down there, huh?!"
Garth growls, "THAT, Assamite, is not any of your concern. Right now, you're going to shut up and follow me- stay close and DO NOT stray off. You do not wish to find yourself lost in these kinds of places."
John looks up at Garth, his eyes wild and uncomprehending, but he concedes to the Sewer Rat's firm instructions with a grunt and a nod.
The rest of the Assamites follow suit, their wounds slowly stitching together. They make sure to stay close to each other down in these manky sewers.
Abdullah gathers his composure and raises his chin high up. He brings to recollection every single aspect of Banu Haqim Blood Sorcery that was taught to him since his nights as a mere Fledgling, the memories from his time learning at the foot of his Sire, also a talented Blood Magician.
He recalls his training under the greats of The Clan of the Hunt. His hands shake, but not from fear, but from a deep sense of purpose and commitment.
He crouches down and draws a sigil of some kind with his dripping Blood. He smears a bit of it with his finger and a sharp, electric sensation rushes through his hand, all the way up his arm and into his very chest.
The Zionist thugs continue their approach, but they are hesitant to go deeper. Lt. Klein orders them to push forward, regardless, and the other Inquisitors, some of them wounded from the Sorcerer's spellcasting, reluctantly comply.
"No fucking night vision equipment. Grrrgfht!"
Garth leads the Assamites through a series of dark tunnels that branch out into many other tunnels, and it's difficult for the Assamites to keep track of their way, but Garth adeptly navigates this winding space like it's second nature to him.
He looks over his shoulder to make sure that everyone's following and that no one lags behind or strays off course.
They eventually come to a stop when the tunnels come to an abrupt end. To the left is a set of metal stairs, a ladder, both leading upwards. To the right is a large, steel door, which Garth immediately grabs the handle to.
He explains, "It looks a wee bit out of place, I know. We had it changed a month back- the other one was coming off its bloody hinges. Come along, now. Hurry along, you lot! No time for delays! Stay close!"
The Assamites look at each other, some of them confused, but they're desperate and eager to get the fuck outta here, so they follow the Sewer Rat deeper into this maze-like sewer system.
They come to a halt a bunch of old, dimly lit lightbulbs begin to flicker. The smell is awful, but vampires don't have working respiratory systems, so that's a huge plus when down in a nasty place like this.
The walls are patchy and grimy and all kinds of unmentionables float in the stagnant water on the ground. A huge rat scurries about, and John watches as it crawls across the floor and burrows into the nearby wall. It struggles to fit its huge body through the tiny crack, and it ultimately fails.
Samir takes a whiff, and he grimaces at the horrid smell, "Eugh!"
Garth snickers, "Mate, don't do that. Believe me, it's not worth it."
Abdullah seeks cover, crouches down, and casts another spell, the sanguine magic flowing freely from the wounds on his palms. He murmurs a few words in his native tongue.
The Zionist operatives are right around the corner, but they're trying their best to be silent. They immediately feel their weapons smoke and sizzle, and they immediately know something's not right.
A few Inquisitors cautiously round the corner and their weapons immediately explode, sending them flying with shards and other bits lodged into their faces.
"YAAAAAAA!" someone cries out as their face boils and sizzles after a shotgun goes BOOM! and burns their face clean off.
Another operative's skin bubbles, and the veins on his face pop and spurt blood. He screams and falls to the ground, the others having to take cover behind the corner.
They wildly fire in whatever direction they think their foes are, the bullets pinging and clanking off the walls and the ceiling.
Abdullah conjures up some of that trusty red mist, albeit in a less "potent" form. He directs it towards the Inquisitors and, as soon as it comes into contact with their feet, it stops them dead in their tracks.
They're stuck in a horrible nightmare that manifests as an illusion. The ground under them opens up and hands, so many grasping hands, reach up and grab the operatives' ankles, yanking them down into the ground.
Some of them are dragged down to their knees, and a few are hoisted all the way down to their chests. They begin to shoot, some of their shots hitting their teammates and turning them into a bloodied mess.
Heh, friendly fire.
Others keep firing, their bullets piercing through the illusions, only for the Inquisitors to see a dead body or 2 where there should be 0.
"She's down! She's down! MEDEVAC! I need a MEDEVAC!"
Abdullah groans, his hands shaking, and his legs feel like they're about to buckle. Regardless, he persists and channels as much of his Vitae as he possibly can into his sanguine spell castings.
An operator falls back and hisses into her earpiece, "Lt. Klein, Lt. Klein?! Come in, Lt. Klein? Does anybody copy?!"
Lt. Klein's voice comes crackling into the operator's earpiece, "I'm here! What is it?"
The operative, her eyes wide, replies, "They're here! I repeat, they are still in here, deep inside! We're being assaulted by--by something! Something is in here, with us! Some of us are KIA. We need backup! We need MEDEVAC!"
Lt. Klein scoffs and orders the operator, "Understood. Press your advantage and push forward. What happened to the flamethrower units?"
"THEY'RE ALL FUCKING DEAD! I--I REPEAT! THEY'RE ALL FUCKING DEAD!"
Lt. Klein clicks her tongue at this. She grabs a wooden stake, reloads her pistol, motions for a few of her troops to follow, and they advance, their eyes scanning the darkness in front of them.
A loud clunk is heard, and they slowly and cautiously peer around the corner to see trails of blood on the floor. 1 of the thugs crouches down and runs his fingers through the blood, his brow furrowing.
Lt. Klein, her gun held tight, looks down at him and shouts, "What are you doing, soldier?!"
The soldier in question gasps and wheezes as he collapses to the ground and begins frothing at the mouth. He then starts foaming at the ears, and he screams in a shrill and distorted voice as blood starts to pour out of his mouth, ears, nose, eyes, and everywhere.
He convulses and shakes and jerks around before going still. The others watch, their eyes wide with terror.
Lt. Klein quickly aims her pistol at his head and squeezes the trigger without second thought, a grim look painted on her face. A single gunshot echoes throughout the tunnel. The other operatives are all unnerved by what they just witnessed and are hesitant to push forward, so they keep their distance.
Lt. Klein callously remarks with a scoff, "Curiosity always kills."
Svetlana looks over her shoulder and asks Garth, "How much longer??"
The Nossie pushes a door open, slinks across the threshold, and motions for the others to follow. He walks down a series of corridors, eventually coming across a large, rusty metal door.
He grips the handle, and it groans and squeals. He turns to Svetlana and answers, "Not long now, love. Just stay close, I'm not doing bloody reruns, OK?"
The Nossie pushes the door open and leads the others through. They follow him further into the sewer system. The air here is thick and smells of what it smells like. It's pretty dark, too, so their eyes have a hard time adjusting.
Abdullah draws more bloody sigils and signs on the ground. He can feel his Beast rousing within him, demanding to be sated, but he groans and ignores it. He can't afford to give in just yet.
He tries to conjure up some sharp Vitae projectiles, but they only solidify for a few seconds before going back to their usual gelatinous state. He growls under his breath and tries to force the blood to solidify into tiny throwing knives, but he fails.
His knees wobble and he stumbles forward. A goon catches sight of him and unloads a few bullets into the wall, their ricochets and stray shots piercing the illusions and the walls.
A few more Zionists pour into the tunnels, but a loud, blood-curdling shriek is heard from the depths of the tunnels. Abdullah knows that he can't go any further, lest he leads his enemies to the others.
He takes a few steps back and his head is thrown back as he roars at the top of his lungs, fangs fully out.
1 of the operatives, a female, shouts, "What was that?!"
Lt. Klein advances forward with dry and menacing determination, "We will find out soon enough. Get someone to clear these bodies out of here."
She keeps her gun trained on the general area where the shriek was heard, and she and the others cautiously proceed forward, guns ready. A few operatives stand by to fulfill her orders and begin with the thankless task of cleaning up (and covering up) the dead bodies and general mess.
Abdullah conjures more red mist, but its power and effect weaken with every casting, and the Zionists begin to get closer.
Lt. Klein and her squad, about 10-strong, turn a corner and a dark shape emerges. It's big and tall and bulky, and it's completely covered in blood. They begin to open fire, a mixture of SMG rounds and whitey-p hitting the shimmering and shifting "target".
Lt. Klein shouts, "Ceasefire! Ceasefire!" she puts her hands on the weapons of the nearby operatives and cautiously steps forward.
The shape flickers and blinks, rapidly, in and out of visibility. Lt. Klein's eyes widen, and she punches her fist right through this conjured illusion. It dissipates and she warns her troops, "Hold your fire!"
The shape grows brighter and disintegrates into nothingness with a fizzing sound.
Abdullah tries, with all his fleeting might, to conjure up a lethal spell that might be able to kill the Lieutenant, but he keeps coming up short.
The thugs look around and cautiously advance forward, their guns aimed. Lt. Klein is the first to see something shuffling around.
"Who's there?! I said show yourself!" She readies her wooden stake and makes a few tactical hand gestures to her team. They quickly surround the area and keep their guns trained on whatever it is that's lurking in the darkness.
"I will find you! I will hunt you down and make you pay! I will do the same to your friends, you worthless blank body terrorist."
Abdullah has his back pressed against a wall. He gulps deeply and shuts his eyes, trying not to cry blood or get too scared by Lt. Hilda's threats.
Lt. Klein hollers, "I have killed many of your kind in Ramallah before. I wear their rotten teeth- their fangs- as a trophy! I look forward to adding yours to my collection."
Abdullah peeks out and sees her face, contorted by her monstrous (one might say genocidal) bloodlust and her loathing towards the enemy. He catches a glimpse of the fangs necklace she wears, and he can't help but gasp- there's about a dozen extracted Kindred fangs, all belonging to various Kindred from Ramallah, hanging off that black string.
His eyes widen at this, and he quickly gets back into cover. His heart starts to pound wildly in his chest, and he can feel his Beast rising up within him. He closes his eyes and tries to suppress it.
Lt. Klein turns around and orders her squad, "Fan out! Look for them! They can't have gone too far! GO, GO, GO!"
Abdullah needs to hold them back just a little longer, so he shuts his eyes, slits his palm, and lets a few drops of his fleeting Blood hit the ground. He then chants an incantation and focuses all his willpower on a spell he's been working on for the past few nights.
He can feel himself getting weaker by the second. His eyelids grow heavy, and he sways from side to side. He struggles to maintain concentration, and he can feel his Vitae draining rapidly.
"Ugh..." Abdullah groans as he falls to his knees, his entire body shaking, his skin pale as a sheet.
The Blood on the floor begins to boil and bubble and fizzle and a loud shriek fills the tunnels. A moment later, a blood-curdling screech sends shivers down the spines of everyone in the tunnels.
Lt. Klein jumps back, startled by the sound. Her gun is held tight and ready to shoot whatever comes next. The others stand in a defensive formation, their guns aimed at the darkness.
They can see movement in the darkness ahead, but it's difficult to make out what (or who) it is exactly. Some of them think it's just the shadows playing tricks on them. Others think they see something, but they can't be sure.
An Inquisitor blinks rapidly and licks his dry lips. He turns his head and sees a...man, an ordinary man with dark and rugged skin. His clothes are fairly ordinary as well, but his face is hollow. He is surrounded by a thick crimson mist, and he looks directly at the Inquisitor.
The Inquisitor is taken aback by this. He recognizes this man- just another innocent Palestinian man who was murdered by said Inquisitor during a routine stop-and-search in the West Bank.
"How--how can it be...?"
 He narrows his eyes and aims his shotgun at this mystery figure. He angrily fires a few shots at him, but the bullets phase right through him and a wet, gory sound is heard, followed by a thud. The other operatives turn their heads and fire their weapons at that Inquisitor, and he's immediately killed on the spot.
Lt. Klein's eyes widen, and she growls under her breath. She orders the others, "Hold your fire! I repeat, hold your fire!"
Apparently, Abdullah conjured up some sort of powerful illusion spell that causes these fascist thugs to see the ghosts of their victims in lieu of their allies, causing them to kill each other in a mad frenzy.
An operative screams and backs away, falling to the ground, before firing wildly at her fellow goons. Gunfire is exchanged, wildly, between these worthless specks of human dust, and Lt. Klein has to duck for cover behind a large rock. For whatever reason, she's not affected by the spell.
All she knows is that her troops are dying all around her, and it's only a matter of time before she gets caught in this mad crossfire. She grunts and squeezes the trigger on her pistol, firing blindly into the darkness ahead.
A few terrible screams and shrieks are heard from the darkness, followed by the sound of bodies hitting the ground. The gunfire ceases, and Lt. Klein cautiously rises to her feet, her gun aimed ahead. Her eyes scan the darkness, but she sees nothing. She lowers her weapon and turns around.
She tightens her grip on her wooden stake and approaches a cluster of bodies lying on the floor, she checks for a pulse and curses when she finds none. She hears footsteps behind her, and she whips around to see a pair of glowing blue-gray eyes staring back at her from the darkness.
Abdullah into the light, claws and fangs at the ready.
Lt. Klein snarls at him in contempt, "You...you did this, hmm?"
The Assamite Blood Sorcerer responds, "Their crimes finally caught up with them, as will yours, you wretched Zionist kalb (AR: dog)."
Lt. Hilda spits on the ground and scoffs while taking a few menacing steps closer to him, "You are a little boy. I have killed men 10 times your size, filthy Arab."
Abdullah screeches and furiously lunges at the Lieutenant, his claws tearing through the flesh on her arms. Lt. Klein's face contorts with rage as she swings at him, trying to get some kind of hit in, but the Assamite Blood Sorcerer is just too quick for her.
He lands a solid blow to her sternum, and the impact of the strike sends her flying backwards into a wall. She quickly recovers and fires a few shots from her pistol. The bullets strike Abdullah's torso, and he hisses in pain.
Lt. Hilda sees this as an opportunity and dashes towards him with her stake. Abdullah struggles as she pins him to the ground and rams that long piece of wood right into his sternum.
With a wheezing gasp, Abdullah goes limp and the world around him goes completely dark. His body is cold, stiff, and motionless. Lt. Klein looks down at her handiwork with a smug smile, satisfied with her work. Her eyes scan the darkness ahead, but she sees no one else.
With a grunt, she pushes herself off the ground and brushes the dirt off her uniform. Just then, a few more operatives pour into the tunnel and look on in grim awe as Lt. Klein approaches them.
"Report!" she orders.
1 of the operatives steps forward and salutes her, "Lt. Klein, another team on the north side of the city requires immediate assistance! Blank bodies hit them and made off with their SD cards--"
Lt. Klein narrows her eyes and clenches her fist, "They have retreated, then. Very well, we shall go and give them what they need."
Another operator crouches down besides Abdullah's body, "Did--did we finally get a live one??"
Lt. Klein plainly nods, "Yes. Bag it and tag it. Commander Obed is going to want to see this for himself. Get an interrogation room ready. GO!"
That operator scurries off to do just that. Another comes in with a bag of medical supplies and bandages up Lt. Klein's arms and legs, which have been cut open by Abdullah's claws. She doesn't feel any pain, but she can't have those wounds getting infected.
After patching her up, she looks around the tunnel, "They disappeared here, like the worthless cowards that they truly are."
"Should we seal the entrances and exits with explosives or post someone here?"
"No. They cannot live in whatever festering holes they've made their homes in. We will find them and kill them all, I assure you. Let them have this place. I shall inform the Commander that we have finally captured 1 of these...things."
The Inquisitors leave the tunnels, and a cleanup crew arrives to well, clean up the ghastly mess. Bodies are disposed of, weapons are collected, and so on and so forth and what have you.
Abdullah's staked body is then loaded onto a truck, which drives back to the same place where Aaron is being held at, and the body is brought into a cold and dimly lit room.
The body is laid on a cold metal table and examined by the head interrogator, Yishai, who is eager to have a go at the vampire. He rubs his hands together and there is a dark glint in his eye.
It isn't long before Garth manages to successfully escort John, Svetlana, and the rest of the Assamites deep into the bowels of Nosferatu territory.
Before entering, Garth stops, turns around, and pointedly warns the Assamites, "You're going to see Horrors in there, friends. Ugliness, deformities, twisted limbs, hunched backs, broken bodies, and misshapen faces. It is what it is. Point is, you lot don't have to worry about it. They're not gonna eat you alive or anything like that. Just don't gawk, OK?"
The Assamites nod, and Garth continues leading them deeper into his Clan's territory. He stops outside a heavy metal door with a...keypad on it. High-tech! He looks behind him to make sure no one's peering over his shoulder and begins to enter in the code.
John raises an eyebrow and asks, "Seriously? A keypad? That's it? Also, why don't you, like, I dunno put up some secret markers or something, y'know, for folk to follow in case they DO get lost."
The Nossie stops midway through the code-entering and walks up to John, "No, no markers, no directional signs, every single one of us are expected to memorize these routes- codes, too. Don't ask me why we've got a keypad. It's all very hush-hush, but you can never be too careful. Now, shut up and let me concentrate."
He presses the last few numbers on the keypad, and the door swings open with a loud groan. Garth motions for the others to enter first.
The tired and battered Assamites enter and gasp as they catch sight of the Nossies- The Clan of the Hidden. Some of them look like they could pass for "quite normal", actually, but some look like they got run over by a train. A few are missing eyes, limbs, noses, ears, you name it.
Others have deformed body parts, some hobble around with a limp while their legs have scores of sores and boils on them, some have crooked and hunched backs, some are covered in boils and pustules and rashes and scars. There's just so much going on with these poor folks, but they seem friendly enough.
Their surroundings are decently well-kept. The walls are rough concrete, the floors are solid and bare, and the ceilings are quite high and made of rough concrete, as well. It's very well-lit, with rows of fixed and bright tube lights, illuminating their path ahead.
John whistles, "Wow. This is...this is not what I expected at all! Also, how many are actually down here?"
"Not a lot, actually," Garth replies, "We're not exactly the most social of the Kindred- I'm sure you understand why."
The Assamites are led down a series of winding corridors and hallways that make up the Nosferatu Warrens. A few of them turn their heads and gaze around the place.
Some Nossies stop and stare at these relatively normal-looking Kindred. Some point their twisted fingers and whisper amongst themselves as Svetlana walks past what looks like a common room, with a TV, old sofa, and jukebox.
Svetlana sees some Nossies sitting down and playing cards. 1 of them notices her staring and gives her a toothy grin and waves his cracked hand in a friendly manner.
Svetlana gingerly waves back and keeps moving.
Garth chuckles to himself and continues leading them further into his Clan's Warrens, "As I said: they don't bite. C'mon, this way, you lot. Tommy is--"
John stops in his tracks and looks over his shoulder. His lips quiver and he wonders to himself if Abdullah is still holding out or did he finally meet his Final Death?
Garth asks, "Something wrong?"
John balefully glowers at the Nossie Englishman, "What do you think? If you show me the way, I could use my Celerity to bolt back to Abdullah and--"
Garth puts a hand on John's shoulder and shakes him out of his stupor, "He made his decision, John! There was no changing his mind. You think I like this, leaving someone like that, someone so young, behind to fight off a ton of bloody sods?!"
John sharply sighs, nods, and shoves Garth's hand off his shoulder. The others follow close behind. After a few more twists and turns, they arrive at what appears to be a wide room.
They walk along a main corridor and come across a fork in the path. Garth ushers them towards the right tunnel, which opens up to a wide room with a tall ceiling and rows of mattresses.
On their way through this sleeping room (?), Svetlana spots a young woman hunched over an old and rusted sewing machine. She's got dark and leathery skin. Her salwar is tattered. Her head is lowered, but she turns around and looks at the Assamites with so much fear and pain in her eyes.
Her face is crooked and deformed and her teeth stick out of her mouth, and her hair is almost falling out. She nervously looks at them before quickly averting her gaze, her shoulders slouched and her head bowed.
Svetlana stops walking and stares at this poor woman, who keeps sewing away at some torn clothes piled next to her.
Garth notices this and explains, "She's a Bangladeshi woman. Came here 8 years ago as household help for some rich Bollywood types who were shooting some music video. Her employers viciously abused her. We found her dying on the streets- it was a--a compassionate Embrace."
With some anguish in his voice, he goes on, "She doesn't speak a lick of English, but we're doing our best to teach her. She's quite good with the sewing, so she helps in that regard. Poor lass...it was a mercy c--compared to leaving her out in the rain."
Svetlana lightly gasps in pity, turns and walks away, a look of sympathy and sadness on her face. Her eyes are wide, and her mouth is agape as she thinks about how much injustice there is in this world.
The group is led down another corridor, and they arrive at a large room with the messiest and shoddiest, albeit functional, computer setup that anyone has ever seen. Laptops, likely stolen, are hooked up to wall-mounted monitors. Old computers from a decade ago run some complex programs that are way beyond anything these Assamites have ever seen before.
The whole set-up is quite loud, and the whirring of these old machines fills the room. It's cold, too, with thick bundles of cables all over the place, running along the walls and ceiling. It's very well-lit, though.
The Air-Con units, however, seem to be leaking a bit. It's clear that a lot of this stuff here in this wee room would've ended up as e-waste or in a landfill- better that it was put to good use, one might argue.
Tommy is hunched over in front of a big screen, looking through some files that appear to be the date collected from the SD cards. He stops what he's doing when he hears footsteps, and he looks behind him. He's wearing his trademark mask, that means he knew topside guests would be showing up.
He glares at Garth and growls when he asks, "What happened??"
Garth does his best to explain everything that transpired. He's good with minute details and leaves nothing out.
The interrogation room is cold and damp. Abdullah has been stripped to his underwear. Yishai has also shaven all of the poor kid's hair off. Abdullah is bound to a chair with tight chains that have been fastened to the arms and legs of the chair. His head droops, his body is limp, and his skin is cold, clammy, and pale as can be.
The stake still remains lodged in his body.
Yishai, standing tall and proud and looking down at this helpless vampire, sneers in contempt, "Fucking Arab. I should've known. Let's hope you start singing when the Commander shows up."
He leans closer and whispers, "You better tell us what we want to hear, or else..." he reaches for his knife and runs its tip across Abdullah's cold cheek. There's a wound, but no blood comes out.
"Hm. Strange bodies indeed."
Commander Gallant arrives soon after. Lt. Hilda Klein accompanies him; her back is ramrod straight and her head is lifted high. The Commander nods at her and motions towards Abdullah.
His eyes narrow as he gazes upon the poor Kindred. He looks over his shoulder and orders Yishai to pull the stake out.
The interrogator violently rips the wooden stake out of Abdullah's sternum, and the young man immediately springs to life. His eyes are wide as he gasps and wheezes. His chest is stinging, and he feels dizzy. He struggles against his binds, but it's no use.
The soldiers around have their guns trained on the awakened Blood Sorcerer.
Abdullah snarls in contempt, "Zionist dogs!" He wiggles and struggles against his chains. His fangs are borne, his claws are out, and he's ready to fight his way out if he has to, but he can't.
Yishai smirks and punches Abdullah in the gut, then grabs him by his head and yanks it up violently. Abdullah grunts, but he doesn't make much of a noise. The interrogator is holding the bloody stake up for all to see.
"A simple piece of wood is all it took. At least we know you speak English. Good. I didn't want to bother getting a translator in here. I can't stand Arabic- it's a nauseating language."
Commander Gallant concurs with the interrogator and slowly approaches the vampire, looking down on him with nothing but sheer disgust and malice, "You are vermin- lower than even the lowest scum. People like us are the exterminators of such vermin. You understand, yes?"
He pauses and circles around Abdullah before continuing, "This is...war. A war that was declared a long time ago. You parasites started it. You can try to fight it, but it is a losing battle, hmm?"
Lt. Klein, her arms crossed over her chest, stands next to her Commander and states, "We'll be doing the world a favor by wiping you parasites off the face of the planet."
Abdullah shakes his head and spits some Blood on the ground below, "Ayreh Feek (AR: Fuck you)!"
Commander Obed backhands the Assamite and growls, "Don't you dare speak to me like that! Your filthy tongue will not save you, understood?!"
He points at Yishai, "He has more than enough ways of making an animal like you to talk. So, tell me, who is this John Suarez? Hmm? What do you know about him? What is your association with him?"
Abdullah snarls and hisses, "I will NEVER tell you anything! NEVER!"
The Commander quietly says, "Yisha..." and nods his head towards the Assamite.
Yishai chuckles and cracks his knuckles, "I was expecting as much." He picks up a sharp and thin knife from his belt and jams it into Abdullah's abdomen. Abdullah gasps, coughs, and gurgles as the knife is twisted and turned. He clenches his teeth, but he still refuses to talk.
Yishai screams into Abdullah's ears, "WHAT IS YOUR ASSOCIATION WITH THE BLANK BODY NAMED JOHN SUAREZ!" He repeats this question over and over again while Abdullah cries out in pain as the knife is twisted round and round and round.
Commander Obed and Lt. Hilda Klein look on with stoic and indifferent expressions on their faces. The interrogator keeps twisting and turning the knife in Abdullah's gut, and he demands that Abdullah shut up and answer the question.
Yishai then asks, "WHAT IS YOUR ASSOCIATION WITH THE BLANK BODY SYMPATHIZER NAMED AARON HART?! ANSWER ME!!! GRRRRAGH!"
Abdullah desperately cries out, tears of blood flowing from his eyes, "I won't talk! Walla, I won't! You can hurt me over and over again, I won't talk! I won't tell you scum anything!"
The Commander shrugs and orders the interrogator, "Yishai, stop."
Lt. Hilda Klein looks on with a blank stare on her face, but there is a sense of excitement in her eyes as she watches the Assamite writhe and squirm, trying ever so desperately, to break free of his binds.
Her Commander then tells Yishai to stop what he's doing, and the interrogator begrudgingly complies. He removes the knife from Abdullah's abdomen and steps back to watch what happens next.
Commander Obed glowers at Abdullah, "You know, it's funny. We've been getting reports about your kind who have been attacking our patrols and stealing our SD cards. It would seem that you are a lot smarter than we had initially imagined. Hm."
Lt. Hilda goes over to where Yishai's nasty tools are laid out. She inspects them and picks up a pair of pliers. She approaches Abdullah and grabs his chin with her hand, "I am going to rip these fangs out 1 by 1, starting with the bottom ones. Then we move onto the top ones. Bite me, go on, I dare you."
She roughly shoves Abdullah's head up and forces his mouth open. Abdullah struggles against her and tries to bite her hand, but Yishai circles around and holds his head back while another operator presses down on his shoulders.
Another operator picks up the knife and shoves it into Abdullah's shoulder. He screams out in pain while Commander Gallant folds his arms and looks on with total indifference.
With a determined smirk on her face, Lt. Hilda Klein grips Abdullah's bottom left fang with her pliers and violently pulls it out. Abdullah screams out in agony. The Lieutenant does the same to his upper left fang and then proceeds to do the same to his bottom right fang.
Yishai holds Abdullah's head back with the palm of his hand. Lt. Klein finally struggles to yank out the upper right fang. Blood flows from Abdullah's mouth and his screams become muffled as Yishai lets go and flicks him on the back of the head.
Lt. Hilda Klein chuckles as she tosses the bloodied fangs aside, "You think we haven't prepared for you animals? These fangs, ah a fine addition to my collection. I've had longer ones, however. We have studied you and have come up with several ways of hurting you. Killing you is too simple--"
Abdullah growls and shrieks at her, blood continuously flowing out of his mouth as he cries out in absolute agony and despair, "YOU WON'T WIN! You will never win! Palestine will be free!"
Everyone in the room bursts out in laughter while the Assamite continues to cry and squirm. Lt. Hilda Klein slaps Abdullah across the face and growls, "You're the one who lost, you filthy animal! Your kind is scum- worse than even some of the terrorists we have in our jail cells. You should've stayed in your useless terrorist countries!"
Commander Obed glowers down at Abdullah with disdain, "She's right. So, tell us, then...what's your name? How old are you, really? You can't be that old, hmm?"
"Ibn al Kalb (AR: Son of a dog)! Yakhsaf allah bih al’ard (AR: May God Swallow the Earth beneath you)!"
Commander Gallant lightly scoffs at that, "Ah, so a teenager, then. Hmm, very well. And when did you become a vampire? Where? How? Who made you into 1? Ah, well."
Yishai punches Abdullah in the stomach, knocking the wind out of him. He then punches the Assamite in the face over and over again. Blood flies from his mouth as the interrogator punches and punches and punches, then grabs hold of Abdullah's head and yanks it all the way back.
He hisses into Abdullah's face, "Tell us what we want to hear, you worthless fucking beast. Tell us and I'll make sure to give you the easy way out- I'll douse you in kerosene and light a small fire. It will be instantaneous for your kind. We know how the fire makes you afraid, so very afraid."
Abdullah spits some of his Vitae into Yishai's face and tries his hardest to work some of his Blood Magic, but his Vitae is so low, and his Beast is trembling with primal fear.
He grunts as Yishai slaps him. The interrogator spits on him and growls, "You should think, long and hard, about what you've done, hm? But first..." he grabs a large and serrated knife and mockingly brandishes it before Abdullah's wide eyes.
"You know, I think it's time we start cutting things off, eh? You only need 1 ear..."
Abdullah shakes his head and pleads, "No, please, no! NOOOOO!"
Yishai chuckles. The Assamite struggles against his chains as much as he can, but it's no use. The interrogator shoves the knife into Abdullah's chest, and the poor Kindred screams out in gut-wrenching agony.
Lt. Hilda Klein watches on with a smile on her face as Yishai proceeds to slowly and methodically saw through the vampire's right ear. Abdullah cries out in pain, screaming like a helpless child as the interrogator does his dirty and vile work.
Yishai finally manages to sever the ear, and he holds it up for everyone to see. After a minute, the ear begins to crumble to ash, and it falls through the air in slow motion before landing on the floor with a soft thud.
Commander Obed then orders the interrogator, "Give him a taste of what we do to terrorists, Yishai--"
Abdullah is panting and is in pain unlike anything he has experienced before, but he defiantly says, "I will never--never tell you a thing. You can cut me, hurt me, burn me, destroy my body, but you cannot break my will! You will never win! We WILL find you and we WILL Judge you...all of you."
The Commander lifts his chin and narrows his eyes, "Judge us, hmm? Interesting. We know enough of you blank bodies to know that you...organize yourself into Clans."
Abdullah faintly gasps and his face tics for just a second, but that was all the Commander needed. He smiles, "Ah, I see. It's quite clear now, isn't it? Well, then. Yishai?"
The interrogator smirks and looks over at the Commander, who then says, "He is already talking, isn't he?"
Yishai walks over to a corner and readies a blowtorch, "Yes, sir, he is. We'll get what we want out of you, 1 way or another. We have time."
Back in Nossie territory, Tommy is visibly distraught at the latest turn of events. Garth reassured him that no SI can or will be following them here, but the Nosferatu's paranoia is on full display.
He frantically paces back and forth, muttering to himself. The Assamites are confused as they're unsure how to react to this sudden turn of events. They look around the room and keep their distance from the many computers in the room.
Svetlana, however, walks up to Tommy and asks, "What do we do now?"
Tommy sighs deeply and grunts, his shoulders slumped in defeat, "I don't know. What can we do, hen? I mean, look at me- look at us! We're not meant for combat- we're the fucking information gatherers; we're no meant tae go oot there and fight! The deal was for yous tae go and do that shite! No us!"
Garth puts a hand on Tommy's shoulder and whispers, "I agree, but we have to do something. You know this can't go on. This is getting bad. Why not summon an Archon or a Justicar? They'd have this fucking mess wrapped up in under a week. We have their contact--"
The Nossie Primogen cuts him off, "Naw, naw, cannae be doing that, pal. That bawbag Seth doesnae want them here. Fuckin' bampot he can be sometimes. And we're already too deep in this shit. We cannae call them in."
Garth sighs and takes a step back while John folds his arms and glares at Tommy, "So, what are we supposed to do? Keep the same shit up? We barely scraped by for our last fights, man! We need HELP. The other Clans here won't be offering anything tangible- you know that. Even our own Clan is held back by that stupid Vizier--"
Tommy tsks and shakes his head, "What are suggesting? No be complaining, John. Either suggest a solution or keep yer mouth shut."
John sighs and scratches his chin before saying, "Well, the way I see it, we need help..." he trails off for a moment before finishing his thought, "...more people out there, fighting alongside us. That's the only way we're gonna win this fight against the SI."
Garth shakes his head, "John's right. 100%. But--but, who? We're not up to the task, the Ventrue and the Toreador aren't, either. The Malkavians have expressed no interest in working alongside you lot. Even the Ministry isn't really interested in more direct forms of support. And the other Banu Haqim, well...like he said."
John softly mutters to himself, "If only--if only someone could go around our Primogen...then maybe we could..."
Tommy's ears perk up, and he quickly turns on his heel and faces John, "Oi, oi, that's it! Say that again!"
Abdullah is writhing in his seat and he's struggling to keep his eyes open. His earing has obviously been affected and there's a high-pitched ringing noise in his other ear. He weakly grunts as Yishai pours some hot water over his head.
The interrogator smirks and looks up at the Commander, "Well, sir?"
Commander Obed shrugs and folds his arms, feeling a bit tired from standing in the same spot for more than an hour, "He is a persistent little shit, isn't he?"
Lt. Klein is walking around and inspecting her pistol. She cocks it, aims it around, and keeps her finger off the trigger. She looks at her tactical watch and points out, "We can't keep this up forever. He's just like that American, Yishai- uncooperative and stubborn. Tch."
Abdullah weakly tries to lift his head up, but he doesn't have the strength to do so. He weakly mumbles something or the other to himself, but even that is a struggle. His vision is blurry, and he can barely think straight.
Yishai looks down at his prisoner and sneers, "This is what happens when you do not cooperate, hm?"
He looks at his Commander and says, "Well, we barely got anything of use from him. We already know most of it anyway. Still, we'll take whatever we can get."
He slaps Abdullah around and asks him over and over again, "How many of you are there? How many? How many?! HOW MANY?! FUCKING TELL ME! TELL ME RIGHT NOW!"
Lt. Klein looks at her watch again and tells the Commander, "It's getting late, sir. This has to end. It's exhausting."
Commander Obed shakes his head, "It must end, yes, but he still has not told us anything. Even after Yishai used his blowtorch on his body."
The Assamite whimpers and quietly sobs while Yishai punches him over and over again. The interrogator finally stops and takes a step back to give himself a moment to calm down.
Abdullah struggles to keep his head up. He groggily mumbles something, but nothing is audible enough for the Israelis to hear. Yishai shoves his head back and demands that he speak up.
He angrily grunts and gets his blowtorch. He turns it on and jams it near Abdullah's thighs, burning him and causing him to howl out in pain.
Lt. Klein rolls her eyes and says, "I'm going to go and meditate."
She leaves the room and Commander Obed sighs, "Yes, you go and do that, Hilda. But we need answers. We need to know how many more like him are out there. We need intel."
30 or so minutes later...
Lt. Klein returns from her meditation. The screaming and sobbing, apparently, did little to disrupt her focus. She was able to successfully calm her mind and prepare herself for anything that could come her way.
She finds Commander Obed leaning against a wall with his arms folded. His leg is bouncing up and down, and his face is stern. The Lieutenant greets him with a nod of the head, and the Commander returns the professional gesture.
She asks, "How is he? All I could hear was him crying and screaming like a damn child."
Commander Obed sighs, "He has yet to give us anything useful, Hilda. We are no wiser than when we started. Yishai is taking a break- I ordered him to. At this rate, I'm going to miss my morning prayers."
Lt. Liora Raz arrives, holding a tablet in her hands. Her eyes are somewhat baggy, but she still seems rather focused on the tasks at hand. She looks around the room and sighs, "Where's Yishai?"
Commander Obed replies, "Taking a break. We'll let him cool off for a bit. You have anything of interest, Liora?" There's some frustration in the Commander's voice. Clearly, missing his prayer time is getting to him.
Liora holds up the tablet, "Well, we have run a few traces, but nothing solid. Same with the camera footage around the city. Our patrol units have nothing to report. Anyway, our techs were able to confirm that the worms are slowly being installed deep in the enemies' devices, sir. Lt. Davidai has sent you a detailed report."
She hands the tablet over to the Commander, "Here is what we have so far."
The Commander sharply exhales, "Ah, good. It was his idea- installing small and untraceable worms on the SD cards. A sort of, as he called it, 'insurance policy'."
Commander Obed's eyes dart over the data, and he nods his head as he reads through everything. He pauses, and his eyes widen ever so slightly. He points at something and mutters, "Hmm, very good. This will be useful, yes. It will take time, but I'm confident Unit 8211's abilities."
Lt. Liora nods, "I agree, sir. We are after all, the best of the best of the best. Has this thing said anything yet?" she lazily gestures to Abdullah.
The Commander lightly smirks and hands the tablet back to her, "Very well, then. No, this...thing is like a silent protest. Look at him, look at how he...stares at us with those hollow and dead eyes of his. Disgusting creature."
Abdullah snarls and glowers at the Israelis, but they're not intimidated by him. The Commander waves his hand and sighs, "Hilda, give me a suggestion on what to do with him. Stake him again?"
Lt. Raz interjects, "Sir, if I may?"
"Hmm?"
Abdullah can barely hear much as the Lieutenant and the Commander walk off to speak. Lt. Klein proceeds to discard 3 of his fangs while keeping 1 for her macabre collection.
The Blood Sorcerer struggles on his seat, and his single good ear picks up something that Lt. Raz is saying, "...Sunrise isn't far off..."
He gasps and swallows hard. He looks around the room and sees that the Commander is nodding his head and rubbing his chin. Lt. Klein is looking at her watch again. Abdullah's eyes widen as he sees a few operatives approaching.
Commander Gallant calls out to a few nearby soldiers, "Set up the equipment, quickly!"
They dutifully do as they are ordered and aid Lt. Raz in whatever it is she is planning on doing. Lt. Klein walks over to the Commander and whispers something into his ear. He nods and folds his arms, "Yes, yes, that is also a good idea, Hilda."
The Commander shoots a dirty look at Abdullah and stands in front of him, arms folded, "We have no more use for you. Very well, then. Keep your secrets, wretched terrorist. If we cannot get anything out of you, then we will make sure that your friends watch you suffer."
He turns to face Lt. Raz, "Liora, you have the honor of finishing this. We'll leave you to it." The Commander leaves the room, followed by Lt. Klein.
Lt. Raz smirks smugly and glares at the young vampire, "It is your loss, blank body. You! You! You! Help me take him to the surface! Quickly!" she points and gestures at 3 random subordinates. They rush over and help her lift Abdullah off his seat. His wrists are still bound, and he can barely stand. His ankles are shackled together.
He's too tired to speak, too broken to fight back in any meaningful way. He is carried out of the room and brought to the surface. The sun is just about to rear its head. He squints and tries to turn away from the light.
It's been so long since he's seen that great and terrible ball of fire in the sky.
It isn't long before day-sleeping arrangements have been made for the worn and beaten Assamites. Svetlana gets a corner and a surprisingly decent mattress (no bedsheet, however). Zeina takes the top of a bunkbed whilst Samir takes the bottom part of it.
John huddles against a wall and looks at Abdullah's wallet and phone. A few droplets of bloody tears hit the items as he silently cries. He's never felt so helpless. He wants to do something, but a part of him also feels that it's too late.
Tommy tosses John a small comforter, "Get some wee shuteye, awright? What you suggested is...I don't even have the word for it. But we'll look into it tomorrow night. You and the rest best get settled in, we'll do our best tae take care of yous, OK?"
The other Assamites (more or less) find a decent day-sleeping spot and prepare to be taken in by the cold and uneasy clutches of the day-sleep. They can feel their bodies getting sluggish (the fighting certainly hasn't helped). What wounds haven't mended till now will mend themselves over the long and dreamless day-sleep.
Svetlana lies down on her mattress and shuts her eyes. She wraps the given blanket around her cold body and goes still in a matter of moments. John dozes off a little later. Samir, Zeina, and the rest eventually go off as well.
The Nossies in this large room nod off as well, some hold each other closely while others sleep with their hands crossed over their chest like some kind of mummy. Tommy looks at the Assamites and sighs deeply. He shakes his head and leaves the room.
The sun rises. Abdullah struggles and screams out in pain as he is dragged towards a clearing in the middle of nowhere. He can feel his skin burning, and he can smell his flesh sizzling. He can feel his muscles melting and his bones starting to crack.
A lone camera on a tripod records his agonizing cries for help. His eyes widen at the sight of the emerging sun. It's been...so long. The hard ground below him is bathed in an ethereal, photogenic golden light. He can feel the rays of the sun burning his face.
It isn't long before the rays of the sun have their way with his body. His last moments on this planet are that of intense and searing agony. His skin begins to bubble and melt off. His body begin to catch fire. His scalp starts to burn off. His inner Beast howls and begs for a shade from this horrible star, but the shackles prevent any escape, any chance at survival.
Eventually, his body crumbles to ash and dust. The warm and arid desert wind scatters those ashes and blows them away. Lt. Raz and her subordinates leave the scene, satisfied with their work. They return to their main base and prepare themselves for whatever comes next.
Abdullah's ashes are blown away by the indifferent and uncaring desert breeze.
Lt. Raz gets in an SUV and watches the sky with a smirk on her face. She has her arms folded, and she is sitting next to the Commander and Lt. Klein. She puts on her sunglasses and pulls out a tablet to read some intel reports and finalize a few things.
It isn't long before that beautiful and terrible star of fire begins its unceremonious retreat into the horizon. The sky turns dark once more. The air cools down. The city of Al-Kushraf chugs along, none the wiser about the many dark secrets lurking beneath its very surface.
Svetlana is pulled awake by some shuffling and clanging sounds coming from outside the room. She rubs her eyes and sits up, still groggy and disoriented from the day-sleep. She yawns and stretches her arms, but she winces in pain as she feels a sharp twinge of pain in her gut.
John is (surprisingly) already awake and doing sit-ups. He has a hard and bitter look on his face, and he appears to be pushing himself to do as many sit-ups as he possibly can within this rather cramped space. He grunts and growls under his breath, and his movements are quick and jerky.
Zeina pulls the cover over her head and silently mumbles something to herself. Samir is up, a small netbook on his lap illuminating his face with a soft glow. He types away and keeps his head down, not wanting to draw attention to himself.
After a minute of 2, Tommy steps in. He's wearing matching PJs, his usual mask, and mismatched socks. There's some apprehension in his eyes as he approaches the Assamites.
John springs up in an unnatural flash and stands to his full height. He glares at Tommy and asks, "What happened? Where's Abdullah? Have--have you heard anything??" There's a glimmer of hope in John's voice.
Tommy looks at the floor and sighs, "You're gonnae want to see this. All of yous. Follow me." He's quick, curt, and to the point. The Nossie Primogen leads the Assamites out of the room and into the one with all the computers.
Garth is wearing what he was wearing last night, but a different shemagh covers his face this time. He's busy typing on a keyboard and doesn't make eye contact with any of the approaching Assamites.
John pushes to the front and demands an answer, "Tommy, what the hell is wrong? Don't hold out on us like this--"
Tommy points a remote at a very large TV mounted on a wall. Before he can press the button, he turns to face the Assamites and says, "I'm sorry, friends. Truly, I am."
He presses the button, and the TV turns on. It's a video recording of Abdullah's last moments under the sun. John gasps and takes a step back. Zeina covers her mouth and looks away. Samir mutters something under his breath and shakes his head.
Svetlana whimpers and sanguine tears flow down her cheeks. She sobs and side-hugs the nearest Assamite tightly. She shakes her head and looks at the floor, "No...no, no, no...no, no, no..." she trails off and sniffles.
Tommy keeps his head down, as does Garth and the few Crawlers lurking about.
"AAAAAAAAAAAAHGGRRRRGHHH!" Abdullah's blood-curdling screams come in clear through the surround-sound speakers. The video footage is crystal clear.
It's over in a minute or so, and a few words flash on the screen: "AM YISRAEL CHAI" The grim video ends there and the screen goes black.
John stumbles back and leans against a wall for support. He covers his face with both hands and slides down to the floor. He quietly sobs to himself and softly mumbles something or the other.
Tommy sighs deeply, "I'm so sorry. We...we found that video in our systems an hour ago. Those bastards are in our fucking systems. Somehow, those cunts managed to get in. I don't know how, but I am going to find out."
Zeina shakes her head and asks, "W--why would they do this? Why!?"
Garth answers, "To send a message to the rest of us, that's why. They know that sunlight is the end of us. They know a lot more than that, too. I've spent the past few minutes trying to find out how they've managed to get in. It's a long process, and I'm getting nowhere."
Chapter 18: Sumud
It's the Arabic word for "Steadfastness". There's history behind that word, a long and tragic history. Right now, the Blade of Haqim needs to remain steadfast in the face of such monstrous adversity.
Some time later...
The Assamites are given some watered-down blood from bags and bottles that look like they've been sitting around in a freezer for a long time. It's enough to keep them "alive" and going, but it isn't enough to wholly satiate their Hunger.
Some of the Nossies around curiously stare and point at the (seemingly) regular-looking Assamites around the place. John is pacing back and forth in the room with all the computers.
Tommy and he have come up with a bold (perhaps outlandish) plan to get more help in this fight. They're planning on getting Paul involved since he knows the most about political dynamics of the Court of Al-Kushraf city's Kindred.
John is running his fingers through his hair and mumbling. He's thinking of ways in which this plan could go wrong or spectacularly backfire. The video of Abdullah being reduced to ashes, however, continues to haunt his mind, as it does the minds of everyone else who saw it.
(Lt. Raz's specialty, after all, is PSYOPS and the like. She was the one who suggested not just destroying Abdullah but doing so in the most painful and agonizing way possible- leaving him out in the open for the rising sun to do its thing.)
Svetlana is sitting on a chair and staring at the floor. She's still reeling from what she saw. She's never seen anything like that before. The sun's a cruel bastard to the Unliving, that much is for sure.
Zeina is also staring at the floor and trying to figure out what to do next. She's deep in thought and hasn't said a word in quite some time.
With his background as a coder (4 different programming languages), Samir has decided to stay back and help the Nosferatu. A recent fire destroyed a few of the Clan's "in-house" coders. Tragic.
As such, he's helping the Sewer Rats streamline a few things, reinforce some firewalls, plug any holes, address any vulnerabilities, and ensure that the SchreckNet won't be as easily compromised by hostile forces. He's a bit rusty in a few spots, but he's making do with what he is given.
The other Assamites prepare to leave for their Havens or places of work (if they have any). Garth and a few others agree to escort them back to the surface. SI or no SI, there are bills to pay, shitty jobs to work at, and appearances to keep up.
That's all part and parcel of the Masquerade, after all.
Svetlana stands up and walks over to John. She gently taps him on the shoulder and asks, "What do we do now, John?"
John sighs and his shoulders slump, "I wanna swing by Abdullah's Haven."
He pulls out a simple housekey from Abdullah's wallet and inspects it, "I have the key to his place. I just...wanna take a look around. Maybe um...pack a few of his things away and um..."
He stops and a defeated look of sadness and despair crosses his face. He looks at his shoes and shakes his head, "I'm sorry. I'm...I'm just still reeling from all of this, y'know?"
Svetlana sympathetically looks at her Sire and nods her head, "Da. I understand. It was...overwhelming, no?"
Zeina approaches the duo and looks at them with a wide-eyed and semi-blank stare, "So, what now? Do we...do we go back to our Havens and pretend nothing happened?"
John shakes his head, "No. No, we can't do that. I can't. I'm gonna go to Abdullah's place and--and--"
Zeina folds her arms and interjects, "Clear it out? Put his things in little boxes and then what, hmm?"
John sighs and looks at Zeina, "Look, I know you're upset. I am, too. I even have his phone with me. I can't bring myself to turn it on. He was my friend, Zeina. Like a lil brother, y'know and--and these fucking Israeli bastards didn't just take him from us, they made HIM SUFFER!"
Zeina's expression softens a bit, "Yes, yes, I know! I know! I'm not stupid, John! I saw that video also! I want to Judge them as much as you do, but we need a plan. So far, we have been rushing into battle against these dogs without any support, any help, any sort of PLAN!"
Svetlana nods her head and says, "She is right, John. We are...we are not many. We are barely surviving these fights night after night. Our only Blood Sorcerer is gone and the others are...they are scared. We need to do something. We cannot keep doing like this."
John's plainly nods and mutters, "I'm working on something. Something bold...or dumb, but I don't know what else to do. All I know is that I want every last one of these maniacs dead. Every single fucking one of them." There's a certain dread in his tone.
Zeina sighs and pinches the bridge of her nose, "I fully agree, but we need a plan, and we need people- competent and good people. Our recent losses are not a laughing matter. We cannot just rush in there and kill everything we see with our fleeting numbers."
"I know, I know. Svetlana, you gonna do your babysitting stuff tonight?"
"Nyet. Not like this. I am...scared. I will come to Abdullah's Haven with you. I know I will be missing out on opportunities by not working tonight, but...Abdullah was my friend also. My...habibi."
John nods, "OK. Zeina, you coming with us?"
Zeina shakes her head, "No. I must work, John. I cannot keep taking off like this. I am sorry, but it is simply the way of things. I wish it was not as such, but I must work. I have bills to pay and roof to maintain over my head."
John sighs and looks at Zeina, "OK. Just...be careful out there, OK? I don't want to lose anyone else."
"I pray it will not come to that. Already, too many Judges- good people- have been lost. I must go now. Take care, John. Take care, Svetlana. Samir."
Samir nods in her general direction and goes back to typing away.
"You too, Zeina."
"Da. Do Svidaniya (RU: Goodbye)."
With that, Zeina leaves and heads with the others for the surface. Samir says he'll go and retrieve some of his personal belongings later. For now, he is absolutely laser-focused on familiarizing himself with the Nosferatu computer setup and infrastructure they've got all the way down here.
John, Svetlana, and a few Nossies head out in a separate direction, with a different group of guides. The long trek back up to the surface is silent and solemn. No one has much to say.
John's steps are a bit sluggish; he's deep in grim and contemplative thought about the maddening Frenzy he went through during last night's fight. He still feels that nasty drug cocktail (or whatever it is) in his system.
He still can't believe that he was able to survive it while so many others didn't and were destroyed. He shakes his head and sighs, "Fuck...fuck..." he mutters to himself.
The other Banu Haqim would soon realize that they are up against a foe that has no qualms about turning THEIR OWN troops into walking, breathing hazards just to spite the enemies (blank bodies). Even other SI don't go this low.
Well, the SI here happen to be Israelis. And for all their chest thumping declarations and droning on about being the "most moral" warfighters in the world, the truth is those scum never fight honorably or according to any set laws.
Juiced-up fascist maniacs; whatever's being injected into their bloodstreams has an adverse and nasty reaction when ingested by Kindred. The fights ahead were gonna be tough, that much is definitely certain!
Anyway, John, Svetlana, Zeina, and a few others stay close to their knowledgeable guides. The path back up to the surface is just as long and confusing as the ones going down to the sewers. Memorizing each nook and cranny must be a full-time job in itself!
On the way up, Svetlana makes small talk with the guides. She finds out that 1 of them is from an Oblast that isn't too far off from where she herself grew up. His name is Alexi and he's about her mortal age, deformed face, smooth pale skin, pointy elf ears.
His eyes are an unsettling shade of poison-ivy green, and his head is totally bald. He's a tall and lanky fellow, a bit gangly. He's dressed in a worn-out white dress shirt and slacks.
He speaks to her in Ukrainian, and they have a rather good-natured chat, talking about their pasts and whatnot. Both of them have undoubtedly come a long way from where they were before, and there's no telling where they will go in the future.
It isn't long before Alexi and his fellow Crawlers have guided the Assamites back up to what counts as civilization. Alexi pokes his head out and gives the hand signal saying that everything's clear. Soon enough, the door is opened, and John and company are outside.
It's just past 7 PM and the sky is dark and clear. John inhales some fresh air and sighs, "So, then. This is...um, where, exactly is this??"
Alexi answers, "Metro station north. Walk and you will find it. Here's some dirhams." He hands out some cash and coins to everyone.
Zeina bows her head and pockets the money, "Thank you, Crawler. This is...much appreciated."
The guide plainly smiles, "No problem. I go now. Mr. Thomas, he say he will meet with you at Elysium later. Tak (UA: Yes). Do pobachennya (UA: Goodbye)."
With that, Alexi and his fellow Nosferatu shuffle back into their hidey holes and close the door. John and his group of Assamites walk away from this disused building and head out into the busy streets.
He takes a few glances and looks around, still on high alert, but there's no sign of the dreaded SI. A few surveillance cams swivel and look around, but it doesn't seem to have the Assamite group in its limited line of sight. John breathes a sigh of relief and relaxes a bit.
They split up and go on their ways. Svetlana and John stick together while Zeina heads off to work. She catches the bus and sits all the way at the back, head lowered but eyes flicking around. She's still on edge, as are the rest of her fellow Judges.
John and Svetlana walk towards the large and well-lit metro station, get on a train (separately), and head towards the district where Abdullah used to live. The train ride is long but uneventful. Most people (mortals, mainly) are slumped against their seats as the city passes by in a blur.
Everyone from young office professionals in corporate attire to tourist-looking types are getting off the train as it nears its stop. Svetlana and John remain seated. A few minutes later, the train stops and the doors open. John and Svetlana are the first ones off.
They reconvene at the exit and walk a few blocks to Abdullah's Haven. This area looks somewhat deprived. The streets aren't that clean, the walls are grimy, and there's a dumpster that looks like it hasn't been cleared in a week.
A few mid-rises dot the cityscape, and the overall architecture has a distinctly cheap look to it. It's like someone constructed it just for the sake of doing so, not putting much thought or effort into the whole endeavor. There are a few visible cracks on some buildings, and cars are parked all over the place.
After a minute or so, John and Svetlana are standing outside of Abdullah's apartment building; it goes up for about 16 floors. Its brown color is fading away, and some of the windows are dirty and cracked.
The Assamites stare up at the building and the apartment on the 2nd floor. The single elevator is out of order, so they both take the steps up to Abdullah's Haven. The interior isn't too great-looking, either.
Spider webs and layers of dust cover the stairwell. A few of the lights are out, and the railings are old and rusted.
John shakes his head, going up the steps 2 at a time, "Jesus. He--Abdullah deserved so much better than this."
Svetlana nods, "Da. We all do, John. This place...even my building not dirty like this." She grimaces in disgust as she sees a family of mice scurrying around, going about their yucky business.
John grimaces as well, "Aw, fuck, that's disgusting. Just fucking disgusting. He didn't deserve this, Svetlana. This place is all kinds of OSHA violations!"
"OSHA?"
John faintly chuckles and walks over to Apartment number 206. He pulls out the key from his friend's wallet, "An American thing. Never mind. C'mon, let's--"
The key is in the doorknob, but John furrows his brows and looks at the door, "I--I just can't believe it, Svetlana. He's...gone."
Svetlana steps closer to John and puts her hand on his shoulder, "I am sorry, John. It--it is not fair."
He looks down at her hand, "No. It isn't fair. It isn't fair at all. I should've--should've gotten stayed back with him and held those bastards off."
"He did not want for that to happen, John."
John turns the key and pushes the door open, "Hmm. Yeah. He really gave it all so we could have another chance. Let's make sure that his sacrifice won't be in vain."
He flicks on the lights and takes a look around the small and cramped space. Grimy tiled flooring, thin walls, typical 1 BHK-style apartment. The Blood Sorcerer didn't have a lot, but he always did his best with what he had.
Sparse furnishings are scattered about. The thick curtains are pulled shut, the sofa looks like it was saved from angry cats with sharp claws, and there's an odd stack of books near the TV cabinet.
There are a few other pieces of furniture in the bedroom, a wardrobe, a single bed, a few shelves. A large beanbag chair and a side-table with a lamp are the only things in the small space.
John approaches the pile of books and spots quite a mix: there's an Arabic translation of Vladamir Lenin's "Imperialism, the Highest Stage of Capitalism", an anthology of translated writings by HG Wells, and some random scribblings on Kindred Blood Sorcery, mostly written in some really old and barely used dialects.
John picks up a book at random and flips through it, "Wow, he uh...really kept himself, busy, huh? Kid was always curious. I liked that about him."
All these books are timeworn and show signs of having been read through- multiple times, it seems.
There aren't a lot of personal belongings, but Abdullah did his best to keep himself outfitted with decent clothing and shoes for someone his perceived mortal age- shell jackets, dark denims, dark hoodies, sneakers, and the like.
Another cupboard is opened, and Svetlana sees some of Abdullah's other outfits, including a few robes. John takes a look and sighs deeply and sadly, "I never did see him wear these before."
Svetlana shrugs and picks up a bottle of perfume from off his messy table. She inspects the oud and sniffs it. The scent is quite strong- woody and leathery, like it's been crushed by the bare foot or something. She frowns and puts it down.
John runs his hands through the clothes, "Goddamn. What are we gonna do with all this stuff, Svetlana?"
"Put it in box and then...? I do not have any space in my Haven. I am sorry, John."
John nods in understanding and paces around this small space, "I got some space in my place. I just uh...need to find a few boxes." He goes around to do just that.
Svetlana opens a cabinet and finds Abdullah's stuff from work- his Palm Springs Mall employee ID card, a lanyard, some instruction manuals on how to sell stuff to potential customers, tech specs for gaming laptops, and more.
Jonh comes over and grabs the Blood Sorcerer's ID card. His eyes glaze over and he recalls, "Damn, it wasn't even that long ago when we were at that mall, fighting those 2 amateurs. Now, well, now...we're up against anything but."
Svetlana solemnly nods, "Da. Those 2. Who...were they, John? They were not with SI, but they did know what we are."
John sucks some air through his teeth and shrugs, "That's a mystery for another night--"
Svetlana narrows her eyes and reaches deep into the cabinet, "There is something under here...a notebook, it looks like."
She pulls out a worn-out red notebook, it's small and the cover has seen better nights, but the contents are still intact. It's all written in Arabic, which neither one of them can read. There are tiny splotches of blood on every other page and a few cryptic diagrams.
"Hmm, this is...uh, yeah, it's written in Arabic. Not sure what this is. Could be a diary or something. Can you read it?"
Svetlana frowns and shakes her head, "I cannot. I only know to speak a little bit."
She looks at the book again, eyes thoughtfully narrowed as she turns the pages over, "It...looks like something to do with Blood Magic, no? See, how this is all written and see this spot of blood here on page?"
John sighs, "It seems that way, but even if we could get past the language barrier, I'm not sure that we'd be able to decipher it."
"I know someone who might be able to help."
"Oh, who?"
"Saoirse. That Tremere. She is also knowing much about this Blood Magic and maybe she can understand this book, but I do not know if she is still busy with her work. We could go ask her tonight."
"Do you know how to reach her?"
Svetlana replies, "Da. She works from her Haven, doing customer service."
John lifts an eyebrow, "She does that from her home? Really? Wow. Anyway, yeah, if she's not too busy, we'll give her Abdullah's notes on Blood Sorcery. I'm not, like, super crazy about the Tremere but if you trust this Saoirse, then I trust her too. I trust your judgment here, Svetlana."
Svetlana remarks, "Saoirse is good woman, John. She can be trusted with...this. It is...what Abdullah would want."
John sighs and shakes his head, "Yeah, well, I hope so, Svetlana. I...hope...so." He still sounds so weak and distant. He continues through the Blood Sorcerer's Haven, respectfully moving things around and looking at them longingly and wistfully.
Svetlana makes the bed, does some light dusting, and clears out a little space. John quickly does the same and then the duo begin to pack things up in a slightly torn duffel bag.
In a matter of mere minutes, they've got a good amount of stuff packed away (mostly the important things like IDs, those writings on matters of the Blood, and a few other miscellany).
John decides to come back for the other stuff, on another night. Right now, he and his Childe have to go Elysium and see if this plan of his might actually work or if they're just gonna make things even worse than they already are.
As the Assamite duo are preparing to leave, a woman accosts them. She's slender and in her 30s, dressed in a pencil skirt, blazer, and heels. Her dark hair is tied in a ponytail, and her face is angular and quite pale.
John and Svetlana have their backs to her and are locking the door.
She calls out, her accent distinctly British and distinctly posh, "You there!"
The 2 Assamites almost jump out of their skin, and John swiftly turns around. The woman walks closer, "What do you think you're doing here? You're not the tenant of this particular apartment building. IDs, now."
John stiffens up and nods, "Uh...we're just grabbing something from our--our friend's place."
The woman folds her arms and taps her foot, "And what is your friend's name, hmm? I need to see your IDs."
Svetlana gulps and approaches the woman, "Abdullah Rachman."
The woman is satisfied with that answer, but her expression still reflects her suspicion, "Yes this is indeed Mr. Rachman's Ha--dwelling place, but I still need to see your IDs. If not, I shall have no other choice but to call the police and report you 2 for trespassing."
John grimaces, "Look, lady, we're not trespassing! We're--we're good friends of Abdullah's. We've known him for years and he's uh, well..."
The lady lifts her chin, "Yes, where is your good friend, then, hmm? He owes me money. Rent was due last night. He said he would have the money for me by tonight."
Svetlana hesitantly replies, "He...he cannot pay you."
"Why not?"
John takes a deep breath and kicks the duffel bag behind him, "Look, um...he didn't pay his rent because he uh..."
"Out. With. It."
Jonh feels his head spinning. Her voice, those 3 words particularly, echo in his head and thump like a headache, "Well, you see, he uh...um..."
The landlady puts her cold (!) hands on the 2 Assamites and reiterates her command, her voice stern and authoritative, "Out. With. It. Now. This is my building, and you will obey my orders. Now, out with it!"
The words pour out of John's mouth before he even has a chance to think, "He--he was destroyed this morning!" He gasps and catches himself while Svetlana's jaw is agape and her eyes are wide with surprise.
The landlady's eyes narrow and she tilts her head a little, "Destroyed? You...you're both Kindred, aren't you?"
Svetlana's claws pop out and she's ready to attack, but the landlady takes a step back and forces a sharp exhale out of her mouth, "Ah, of course you are. I didn't hear a heartbeat, and you seemed resistive to my...powers."
John's face scrunches in confusion, "Who the fuck are you?"
The landlady introduces herself, chin held up high, "Margot. Clan Ventrue. Your Assamite friend still owes me money--"
John speaks his mind and gestures around, "This place is a fucking dump. I thought you Ventrue had some kind of aesthetic sense!"
Svetlana nudges John and shakes her head, "Nyet, John. Please, do not."
Margot's laugh is shrill, and she lazily waves her hand in dismissal, "Hahahaha! You confuse us for the Toreador, then. This place is what it is. Most of the pitiful people who rent don't even spend that much time in their homes. In fact, some of them barely even set foot here at all- work and the like."
John shakes his head in disgust, "That's not an excuse to put people up in shitholes!"
Svetlana sheepishly nods, "Da. Is not nice place, Margot. Can you not fix it, maybe put new--"
The Blue Blood lifts her finger and shushes Svetlana, "Tch, you, quiet. Your friend still owes me rent. As sorry as I am for his undoubtedly untimely demise, he signed an agreement with me and is obligated to uphold his end of the bargain. I do not negotiate with the downtrodden, and I am not a charity. This is business. It is a simple equation."
John's lip curls, and he's trying to resist the urge to attack Margot right here and now, "You're a fucking monster! DO YOU EVEN KNOW HOW ABDULLAH--"
Svetlana grips his arm tightly, "No, John. No."
Margot snidely asks, "What Clan do you 2 come from, anyway? Let me guess, Caitiff?"
Svetlana responds, "We are Banu Haqim, of the Blade of Haqim."
Margot shrugs indifferently, "I have no idea what that last part is and I don't care. Regardless, your fellow Assamite owes me money. And, how in the blazes did you 2 even get in there?!"
John sarcastically replies, "We transformed into rats and snuck in. It was easy."
Margot lifts her chin and scoffs, "Pfft. Poppycock."
The Assamites glare at Margot and she glares back at them with greater intensity, "Like I said: this building and the other ones I own are not charities or welfare institutions for the great unwashed to take shelter in. This is a business, and I make a good profit out of it."
"What a surprise. You do have that Ventrue Blood in you, after all. Arrogant--"
Svetlana tugs at her Sire's arm again while keeping her eyes locked on Margot, "John, stop. We have much more important things to do tonight."
Margot's expression is almost blank, but there's a glint in her eyes, "Listen to this Russian prostitute--"
Whoa, whoa!
Svetlana's face hardens and she practically screams, "You dare say such things about me?! You would insult me and then you would insult my Sire as well?"
John shoves Svetlana, "Wait, Svetlana, let's just--"
Svetlana grits her teeth, her fangs fully visible. Her claws are out and she's about to take a swipe when John yanks her back, "Svetlana, NO! NO!"
Margot softly chuckles and folds her arms. She watches on, cool as a corpse cucumber. She looks amused by this.
Svetlana is flustered, "John, we should just leave! Let us go, da?"
John concurs and glowers at the Power Monger, "Yeah, let's go."
Margot casually states, "I have spare keys. I'll empty everything out and see that it's disposed of accordingly. But I still want my money."
John and Svetlana ignore her and walk away, the former seething with rage and the latter fearing for his safety. Svetlana carries the duffel bag over her shoulder, and they make their way to Saoirse's Haven for a quick chat.
The Tremere has a few minutes off her demanding shift, so she invites Svetlana and her Sire in. Upon entering, John is hit with that uncanny valley effect. Everything in this Usurper's Haven is meticulously arranged, nothing is out of place, all the lamps are in deliberate angles, and everything is squared up and spaced out.
Even the living room is organized to perfection: the surfaces are dusted, the trinkets are evenly spaced from each other, and everything looks brand new. John's gaze glazes over and he almost falls over.
The Tremere introduces herself to John, "Saoirse Ramachandran. Clan Tremere. Irish. Indian, too. By the way, nice katana you got in that wee guitar case of yours."
John is taken aback, "How did you know--"
Saoirse chuckles, "Auspex, macushla (IE: darling). I saw it while you were waiting at the door. So, Svetlana, how are you? How's the...y'know?"
(She's talking about the whole Wraith thing. Svetlana still hasn't told her Sire about that yet).
Svetlana nods and smiles a small smile, "Da. Is under control now."
John is clueless and he asks, "What thing? Anyway, my name's John Suarez. I'm Svetlana's Sire. Um...Mexican-American, I guess. This place, it feels so...weird. It's like it feels bigger than it--it actually is. Like I'm in a dream. I'm still kinda buzzed from the fight last night and uh...I'm still reeling from Abdullah's uh...from what happened."
Saoirse looks at her watch, her brows creasing, "My shift is starting soon. Yeah, I made some wee 'adjustments', you could call it, to this place."
Svetlana unzips the duffel bag and hands over all of Abdullah's Blood Sorcery-related writings and notes, "Saoirse, we need your help. We have...something here. Our close a--and dear friend, Abdullah, was researching Blood Sorcery and--"
John interjects, "He was destroyed earlier today. The SI put him out for the sun and recorded the whole fucking thing- fucking shitbags."
Saoirse blinks a few times, her expression solemn and somewhat tired, "Oh, I--I'm so sorry to hear that." She takes the writings and goes over them. She mumbles a few things under her breath, "Hmm, yes, yes...hmm, these are all in Arabic..."
She furrows her brows and gets lost in her own head for a moment. She reads through the various notes and looks over the drawings a few times before she finally closes the notebook and sighs, "Well, it's Blood Sorcery alright. I know a few of those wee diagrams. It's similar, in some ways, to the ones back in the Abu Dhabi Chantry."
John pushes his luck and asks, "You're a Blood Sorcerer, too, right? Can't you uh...help us? Abdullah was our best; you should've seen the way he worked, like, like magic--"
Saoirse shakes her head, a pained expression forming on her face, "I'm sorry, macushla. I just can't. I wish I could, really, but work's being a right pain in the arse these past few nights."
John presses his lips into a thin line and nods, "Well, it was worth a try. You think you could learn something valuable from that stuff? Abdullah was my best friend, and I'd like someone to carry on his legacy and honor his memory. He was, simply put, the best damn Blood Sorcerer you'd have ever met."
He quickly adds, "I mean, I'm sure you Tremere are great at it and all, but Abdullah was...on another level." He turns his head aside and sighs, "Damn, this is depressing."
Saoirse nods, "I see. Well, if I have the time, I'll give this some serious thought. I can't make any commitments, but I'll see what I can do. I know that Banu Haqim Blood Sorcery is vastly different from Tremere Blood Sorcery. I don't read Arabic, but I could learn to do so I put me mind to it."
Svetlana incredulously asks, "You can learn to read Arabic so fast? Even after all my time in UAE, I know only few words and phrases. I cannot read it, but I can speak very little of it."
Saoirse smiles and looks into Svetlana's eyes, "I'm a Tremere, love. Once I put my dead heart to something, I do it, and I see it through to its end. It's going to be a challenge, but I'm ready, all the same, to give it a lash."
Some kind of ringing sound comes from Saoirse's open laptop, and she clicks on an icon.
She looks up at the 2 Assamites, feeling a bit disappointed, "That's work. If I don't check in, those dryshites will cut my fockin' pay. I'm sorry. I'll look into this when I get time. Feel free to see yourselves out and...yeah, stay safe out there. You both look like shite."
John waves goodbye and leaves. Svetlana waits till he's out of earshot and says, "Thank you, Saoirse. For helping me with Wraith. She is still...near to me, but I cannot always reach out to her. It is...hard for me, sometimes. If you do learn something from Abdullah's notes, please let us know."
Saoirse smiles and puts on her bulky headphones. She snuggles up on her sofa, "I will. Take care now, Svetlana, and take care of your Sire, too. He seems like a decent fella. I'll see you soon, and we'll...well, I'm not sure when we'll meet again, but I hope it's under better circumstances. And my condolences to your friend."
"Da. Thank you."
Svetlana steps out of the Usurper's Haven and feels the gentle nighttime breeze on her cold skin. John is milling about and stroking his chin, wondering how this place actually fits together. His face is scrunched up in confusion, but he doesn't voice any of his thoughts out loud.
Svetlana shuffles over to him and asks, "Are you ready to go to Elysium?"
John tiredly says, "As ready as I'll ever be. C'mon, let's grab a taxi. I'll pay, don't worry."
Svetlana walks with her Sire along a footpath and asks, "What is this plan of yours? You did not tell me. You must tell me, John, so I can support you."
John picks up the pace, "It's gonna be a plan, Svetlana. I dunno how this is all gonna pan out. Look, if you don't wanna come with me, then that's fine--"
"Nyet. I am coming with you. You are my Sire, and I am your Childe. I...almost lost you last night. I was so scared when--when you were--"
"I know, Svetlana. I know. I still feel the effects lingering in my body, like some kind of sticky, slimy residue that I can't seem to get out of my system. I don't think it's gonna go away anytime soon. I--I hope this plan works out. It's the only thing I can think of that might help us out, at the moment."
"This plan, it will turn the tide?"
"I genuinely hope so. I genuinely hope so, Svetlana."
The taxi ride to The Grand Alhambra is quick. The driver knows plenty of nifty shortcuts through the city. He's a good guy. John pays him and the 2 Assamites are inside The Grand Alhambra's grander lobby.
Ms. Kawasaki is idly lolling about near the bar area, and if she's there, that means Vizier Mohammed is here, too. Miss K scowls at her fellow Assamites and then looks around, as if expecting someone else to come barging through those doors.
John shakes his head and steps into the elevator, "She's got issues."
Svetlana faintly chuckles, "Da."
Elevators are switched where needed, and it isn't long before the 2 are all the way up at the 140th floor, where Elysium resides. The elevator doors open, and the duo step out.
There's a different goon standing by the door to the lounge, his bored expression showing a keen desire to not be here right now, but he's just doing his job. His suit is tidy, and his sunglasses are on.
He lifts his head, his eyes barely registering the presence of the 2 approaching Assamites.
He holds out his hand, palm facing out, "Please surrender any and all weapons on your...err...person." He gestures to the man behind the counter. John recognizes him from the last time he and his Childe came here.
John unslings his guitar case and hands it over to the guy, explaining, "My katana's in there. Keep it safe for me."
Svetlana surrenders her ceramic and obsidian daggers and curtly nods. She sees some of the really gnarly weapons on display- shiny pistols, maces, battle axes from centuries prior, and even a fucking claymore sword. That last one is bolted to the wall it looks old and worn-down, anyway.
She shrugs and heads inside the lounge proper with her Sire. Inside, Vizier Mohammed is jovially talking and wildly gesticulating about something to some other Kindred, Setites most likely. They're all wearing suits, and they mildly bored out of their minds.
It's likely the Vizier is, once again, talking (at great length) about his favorite subject in the entire world- Alamut.
Seth sees the approaching Assamite duo and he briskly walks towards Svetlana. He ignores John and puts his hands on Svetlana's shoulders, "Svetlana! How are you? Tommy told me you took quite a beating last night. He even said a lot of you were destroyed last night. I--I was worried, I thought you--"
Svetlana uncomfortably wiggles out of the High Priest's grip and backs up a little, "Nyet, nyet. I...am fine."
John lifts an eyebrow and looks askance at Seth, "Hey, I'm fine, too, y'know..."
Seth clasps his hands together and looks at the 2 Assamites, but it's obvious his eyes keep going towards Svetlana, "So, how can I help you tonight? Tommy said you...wanted to talk about something. He was pretty vague about the whole thing."
John nods, "Yup. Now, where's that spineless asshole? Hey, Mohammed!!"
The Banu Haqim Primogen turns towards the direction of the shouting, his face turning into a scowl upon seeing those 2, "You 2. What do you want?" His Setite entourage are all giving John the stink eye.
The Vizier is dressed in a fancy and embroidered thawb along with brown sandals that look new. He slowly approaches John, chin raised, and face contorted in disdain, "Ah, Mr. Suarez. Ms. Bobrov. My...condolences on your recent losses."
John scoffs, "Keep 'em, you spineless, sniveling little fucking weasel." He steps closer to Vizier Mohammed and glowers, "You have a lot of fucking nerve showing yourself around these parts. You have no idea, NO IDEA AT ALL, how many we've lost over these past few nights."
Tommy casually joins in, "Aye, you came. So, you ready for this, John?"
Seth side-eyes the Nosferatu Primogen, "Ready for what? What the hell is going on here?"
Svetlana tenses up as John has that determined and intense look in his eyes.
The other Kindred in the lounge have all stopped what they're doing and are also watching intently.
John looks around and gulps. Paul, the Toreador Harpy, inserts himself into this tense situation in a very casual manner, "Alright, let's get this show on the road. Thomas--err--Tommy told me everything. Uh, yeah."
Seth gets a little annoyed, "Nobody told me anything. What is going on here??!"
Tommy nods over to John, who clears his throat and loudly announces, "I'm here to challenge Vizier Mohammed Khan for the position of Primogen."
Silence. Dead silence. Svetlana lets out a small gasp but doesn't say much else.
Vizier Mohammed lifts his chin higher and folds his arms, "Pfft. Nonsense. You have no right to do such a thing. It has not even been that long since your arrival to this Domain. Why would you assume you could just take my position? That is highly presumptuous and utterly absurd."
John shakes his head and smiles, "It's nothing of the sort. Truth is, it's YOU who's been holding us back. YOU refuse to let any of our fellow Assamites join us in this fight against the SI. As a result, we've been losing too many good people over these past few nights, and you keep sending out these bullshit excuses."
He grunts and adds, "I'm done with it. Whatever they are, I'm done with it. This ends now. Once again, I challenge you for the position of Banu Haqim Primogen for the Domain of Al-Kushraf city. I don't care if it's the proper way or not. We have bigger fish to fry, and you're just...in the way."
Vizier Mohammed scoffs, "Tch. You dare march in here and make such demands! If this were not Elysium, I WOULD CUT YOU DOWN!" Bluster, judging by his tone and whatnot.
Tommy points out the obvious, "Aye, John's right. You've no exactly been the most helpful. The Blade of Haqim IS from yer own Clan, yet yous refuse tae be supporting them because you no agree with their teachings or some shite."
Seth's expression darkens, "Well, Vizier Mohammed, what say you?"
Paul softly chuckles and adjusts his cufflinks, "Yup, what say you, indeed? Truth be told, it was a long time coming. All you ever do is talk peoples' heads off about Alamut. It's like you're so 1-dimensional and superficial. Is there literally nothing else that you...y'know, like to talk about. It's always Alamut this, Alamut that--"
The Vizier balefully glowers at the Harpy, "I would rather talk about the great and might Alamut than listen to you Degenerates prattle on about whatever you wish to talk about."
Paul smiles a toothy smile, "Yeah, OK, that's fair. Y'know, you're actually more interesting when you're angry."
Seth takes a step back, "This has nothing to do with me or the Ministry. Sort this out among yourselves. Just don't make a mess. This is Elysium, after all. Now, you see why it's important to surrender your weapons at the front, heh."
He steps back, but not before giving Svetlana a cheeky smile. She winces a little and looks down at her feet.
John puts his hands on his hips and gets all up in the Vizier's bidness, "So, what's it gonna be? You gonna step down or do I have to make you?" he cracks his knuckles and then his neck.
Mohammed snarls, his fangs visible, "You DARE threaten me? Here?? You think you can just march in here and take MY position as Primogen??"
John reiterates his demand, plainly and equably, "Yup. So, what's it gonna be, Mr. Mohammed Khan?"
The Vizier takes a step back, but he still manages to maintain his composure. His brows furrow and he looks away from John, his mind racing over the possibilities.
The Nossie Primogen sniffs, "Aye, just accept it, ya fud. After this all blows over, John, Paul, and I agreed that we'd give it back to yous. Unless you are willing to let your fellow Judges join this wee fight--"
With a defeated expression on his face, Vizier Mohammed begrudgingly accepts the terms, "I--I accept. I step down, temporarily, as Primogen for the Banu Haqim Clan in the Domain of Al-Kushraf." His shoulders are slumped, and he refuses to make eye contact with anyone present.
John is taken aback by how easy that was. He was kinda preparing for some kind of 5D rhetorical mind games politicking bullshit. He's still tense and on edge, but his mind slowly starts to relax.
Vizier Mohammed shakes his head and leaves the lounge, the doors slamming shut behind him. An awkward and tense silence hangs in the air.
Paul claps John on the back and approvingly says, "WOW! HOLY! You did it! You actually did it! This is unprecedented but...I dunno, I kinda like this? Heh heh."
He turns his head towards Seth and softly smiles, "Well, uh...I guess this makes John Suarez the Primogen of the Banu Haqim Clan in the Domain of Al-Kushraf, UAE!"
Seth blandly shrugs, "I guess it does. What now, John?"
Indeed, what now?
Svetlana tugs on her Sire's arm and whispers, "Da. What now, John? You--you are now Primogen, but how will that help us?"
John outlines his plan, "As Primogen, I'll meet with those of our Clan who aren't of the Blade. I'll coordinate with them and see how they can help us out in the fight against the SI. I'm hoping they can bring something to the table that'll give us an edge in this fight. It's a longshot, but I've really got nothing else up my sleeve."
Tommy reassures the new Assamite Primogen, "Aye, nae bother. I'm here tae help yous out."
Seth smirks and inquires, "Thomas, Thomas, Thomas. If I had to guess, I'd say this was your plan?"
The Nossie Primogen shakes his head, "Naw, not at all. It was John who initially said something and that got me thinking. I had a wee chat with Paul over here and...we decided tae go for it. I hope it works out, but I'm confident it will."
Seth nods, "I see. Well, this should make things interesting, don't you think so, Svetlana?"
Svetlana nervously replies, "I--I do not know. We are not here to make things interesting. We are here to get support in the fight against the Second Inquisition and remove them from these lands."
John looks at his Childe and sees the worry in her eyes, "It's OK, Svetlana. I'm sure it'll work out. I can't promise anything right now. I'm only doing this temporarily. Once every last one of those Israeli bastards have been Judged, I'm steeping down and handing the reins back to the Vizier."
Seth comments, "That's awfully...altruistic of you, John. Most Kindred would stop at nothing to hold on to such power and influence. I see that you're...not like most Kindred. At least, not like the ones I've met before. Maybe it's because you're a part of the Blade of Haqim and all that."
John notices something in Seth's tone, but can't quite put his finger on it, "Uhm...OK. I'm glad we've got that settled- I thought it was gonna be a lot harder, heh. Tommy, Paul, do you mind helping me out? You 2 know more about our Clan around here than I do."
Paul smiles widely, "It would be our pleasure."
"Aye!"
After a minute, Ms. Kawasaki comes storming through the doors, her tantō in hand, and murderous intent in her eyes. She points her knife at John, "YOU!"
Vizier Mohammed trails behind her, a look of anguish on his face. He wrestles the blade from her cold hand and chides his charge, "Calm yourself! You cannot do this! It has already been settled! Please, Miss Kawasaki."
Seth rolls his eyes, "Great, just great."
Ms. Kawasaki scoffs, "HOW DARE YOU! You can't just--just fucking come in here and take his place!" Her claws pop out and she lunges towards Svetlana, but she leaps away just in time.
Tommy growls, holds his hands up, and shakes his head, "Naw, naw, naw! Nae violence in Elysium, hen. Don't make us do something we'll regret."
Paul picks Svetlana up and sets her down in a safe place.
John cracks his knuckles and smirks at the pissed off Miss K, "Yeah? Who's gonna stop me? You? I'm Primogen now. If Mohammed had any spine, any sort of conviction at all, this wouldn't have happened. I challenged him, fair and square, and he gave it up without even so much as a fight."
He shrugs and looks at the Vizier, "No offense, man, but...you truly are as spineless as they come."
Miss Kawasaki screeches and flashes her claws at the new Assamite Primogen, but John steps out of the way and dodges it.
He grabs her by the arm, twists her around, and slams her to the ground. Seth winces at this, as do the other Setites gathered here. Some of them mumble and walk off without saying anything.
Svetlana watches in horror as her Sire keeps Miss K pinned to the ground. She hisses and struggles to break free, but John makes sure to keep her subdued. His Kenpo training comes in handy here.
She looks up at him with utter contempt and growls, "You can't do this. He is--was our Primogen. You have no right, you--you fucking outsider!"
John snarls at her, "Outsider?! I AM A BANU HAQIM, just like you are! Join us, we need capable people like you on our side. Help us take the fight to these fuckin' Israelis!"
Miss Kawasaki hisses in disgust, "I--I will never help you or that stupid Blade nonsense cause of yours. Now, unhand me you fu--"
John grabs her by the hair and lifts her head up. He bares his fangs and leans in close, "I am your Primogen now. This is happening whether you like it or not. The Blade of Haqim IS a part of our Clan."
Ms. Kawasaki screams and tries to claw at John's face, but he easily dodges her feeble attempt.
Svetlana shouts, "NYET! NO FIGHTING IN ELYSIUM!"
Seth shakes his head and sighs, "Enough, enough! John, please, let her go."
Vizier Mohammed comes over and pats Ms. K's back, "Miss Kawasaki, it's OK. It's OK. It's not forever. Once this is all done and over with, Mr. Suarez has agreed to hand the position of Primogen back to me."
Ms. Kawasaki sneers, "Like hell he will. He'll hold on to it and make us do his bidding. I'd sooner end him on the spot than accept anything he says."
John snickers, "You can try. You can try. Besides, I'm not gonna do what she said. If anything, everything I do from here on out is gonna prove her wrong."
Vizier Mohammed lets Ms. Kawasaki go and backs off. She brushes herself off and adjusts her top. She turns around and gives John a sour look.
The Vizier clears his throat and looks at John, "So you say, Mr. Suarez. I pray that you are an honorable man of your word. For now, I can focus myself on educating Miss Kawasaki."
John scowls, "Educating her on what?"
Vizier Mohammed looks a little embarrassed. He looks at his charge with some pity and then at John, "She does not know how to read."
Paul is taken aback, "What?! Did I--did I hear you right? You're telling me she doesn't know how to...read? Like, what books or...?"
Svetlana looks at Miss K with sympathy in her eyes.
Ms. Kawasaki shakes her head and lowers it in shame, but her permanent angry scowl somehow makes her look less sad and more annoyed.
Vizier Mohammed explains, "I am afraid so. She was born into the Web of Knives. From a very young age, her sole purpose was to be trained in assassination. I fear that reading and writing was not part of her...education."
He looks at his charge with pity and says, "I am sorry, Miss Kawasaki. Our Clan has failed you, now I see to it that such mistakes are rectified."
He then turns towards John, "The Web of Knives, like the Blade of Haqim, is a mistake and a stain upon the venerable image of our great and mighty Clan, Mr. Suarez. I hope you understand this."
John counters, "Bullshit. Look, I'm sorry about her being illiterate, but the Blade is absolutely nothing like the Web. The Web are assassins-for-hire, selling their services to the highest bidder. The Blade is about fighting for a free Palestine. We are NOT the same thing, not even by a longshot!"
Vizier Mohammed sighs and looks at his charge, "Miss Kawasaki, I think it is time we take our leave. Please, retrieve your weapon and come with me. Do not say anything or cause more problems. I want no violence in Elysium."
She complies by grunting and snatching her tantō. She growl-hisses at John and stomps off, leaving the lounge with a heavy air of tension behind her.
Ms. K waits by the elevator while the Vizier returns, head lowered, "Tomorrow night, I will put you in contact with someone who will help you in your...cause."
John blandly responds, "That's much appreciated."
The Vizier bows, turns on his heel, and leaves.
Svetlana slowly walks up to John and says, "You--you did good, John. I did not think it would be so...easy."
John sighs and rubs his face, "Yeah, well, I'm just glad it's over with. Thomas, Paul, what are our next steps?"
Tommy's chuckle comes out as a muffled growl, "It's in your hands now, pal. The Nosferatu will continue to monitor the digital spaces. Hopefully, they cannae find out about our plans tae keep fighting them. I suggest that you focus on bringing our Clan together and making them see things from your perspective. It'll take a lot of convincing, but we all believe in you."
Paul firmly nods and cracks a reassuring smile, "Yep. What he said, basically. I'm sure the other Assamites around here...um...sympathize with the Palestinian cause. They've been keeping themselves away from the Court and the Primogen Council all this time because of Mohammed and his stupid Alamut-centric rhetoric and--and obsessions."
He turns to Svetlana and looks at her, "Well, between me and you, I won't be missing those hours-long conversations about Alamut, haha!"
Svetlana chuckles along and nods, "Haha. Da. It was too much."
Seth notices Paul and Svetlana chuckling along and clears his throat, "Ahem! So, what are your next steps, John? You may be the new Banu Haqim Primogen, but...there are still hurdles."
John asks, "Like?"
The Typhonist points out, "Have you considered how you'll deal with the other Clans in the Domain? How will THEY react to you being the new kid on the established block? Have you considered that, hmm?"
John shakes his head, "No, no I haven't. I already have Tommy's support. Mark and Sebastian can go fuck themselves for all I care. Absalom is creepy, so let him do his own thing. All I need is to rally the other Assamites in this city, get 'em to see reason, and then we can finally get rid of the SI, like you always wanted."
Seth merely nods, his eyes shifting about, "I don't know, John. I have a bad feeling about this. I know we do things differently here in Al-Kushraf, but this, whoa, this is quite new. Even for me. I've presided over the Primogen Council for decades now. This is unprecedented. Truly."
Paul tries to reassure the Setite, "I'm sure it'll be fine. Don't worry, John's got this under control. We'll make sure of it. We have his back."
Seth turns to Paul and remarks, "You're burning a lotta bridges with your own Clan by throwing your lot in with the Banu Haqim. What do you get out of all this, anyway?"
The Toreador Harpy shrugs and states, "The satisfaction of not having the forces of the Second Inquisition drag us out of our beds during the day or blow our Havens to smithereens with high explosives. Isn't that, like, enough?"
Seth raises an eyebrow and scoffs, "Tch. Oh, please! As if! There's more to it than that. I know there is. You're a Harpy, you trade in gossip, secrets, and info. So, what's the deal? What's the angle you're trying to play here, hmm?"
Paul rolls his eyes and turns away from the Setite. He pulls out his vape pen and takes a puff, "Not everyone's got an angle they're trying to play or some super-evil plot they're cooking up in their heads. Some of us are actually capable of acting selflessly for once, y'know?"
He puffs again and lets the strawberry-scented vapor out of his mouth, "Look, I know you Setites have a Clan Compulsion to lead everyone you see down a path of Transgression or whatever, but c'mon, man. It's not always like that, OK?"
Seth narrows his eyes at him and turns towards Svetlana, "That's your opinion, Mr. Devers. What about you, huh? What do you think of your Sire seizing the position of Primogen? I'm sure you have something to say on the matter, Svetlana."
Svetlana avoids looking into Seth's serpentine eyes. The way he looks at her and talks to her reeks of an unhealthy obsession. She feels kinda uncomfortable and uneasy just by standing near him.
She says nothing and keeps her eyes locked onto John.
Her Sire reassures her, "It's OK, Svetlana. It's all gonna be OK. I'll have you by my side, right?"
Svetlana faintly smiles, "Da. Always, John. Always." She looks at Seth and forces a smile, not wanting to be rude to the man who bought her and her Sire new phones all those nights ago.
John clears his throat and says, "So...that's it for now, I guess. Tomorrow night, I meet up with whoever the Vizier puts me in contact with. Maybe they can help me out? I certainly hope so. I hope he's not trying to pull a fast one on us."
Seth shrugs, "Possibly. You never know. Who knows what connections Vizier Mohammed has?"
Svetlana tugs on John's sleeve and whispers into his ear, "We--we need to go now."
John calms her down, "In a minute, in a minute. I just need to go over some things with Tommy and Paul over here. After that, I'll drop you back."
Svetlana can feel Seth's obsessive eyes boring into the back of her head. She winces and turns away from him, her heart acting up in her chest. She doesn't know what he's thinking or doing behind her back. She wishes she did.
Oh, if only she knew...
A few Setites still lingering around take this opportunity to say that the Blade of Haqim are nothing but dangerous extremists who should not be put in any place or position of power. John glowers at them, shakes his head, and ignores them.
They then ask Seth how he could allow such an outsider to infiltrate their "halls" and usurp the seat of the Banu Haqim Primogen.
The High Priest tells his fellow Serpents, "It's a Banu Haqim thing. There's nothing I can or will do about it. If it is the will of Typhon, then so be it."
A few other Sand-Snakes inquire about the Caitiff problem in the city.
Seth stifles a chuckle and retorts, "What Caitiff problem? A lot of them were destroyed in the Marjan Tower explosion, the rest fled, the few who do lurk about here and there are hardly a threat to us. They are well-behaved. No worries."
He adds, "I'm told that N0S4A2 is still out there, racing their cars and what have you. As long as they stay in their lane, it shouldn't be too much trouble for us or for our many interests in this Domain."
Seth is quite good at using his silver (one might say forked) tongue to put his fellow Serpents at ease during these times. He also seems to be pretty adept at deflecting attention away from himself and his own schemes.
John pays this no mind. His focus is elsewhere. He feels the weight of his new position. He needs to get with the non-Blade Assamites, talk to them, and come up with a plan to take the fight to the SI menace, and drive them from these lands once and for all.
Svetlana and Paul make some small talk, much to Seth's chagrin, with Paul humbly showing off what bits of Ukrainian he's been learning over these past few months.
Svetlana lightly giggles and replies, "Good! Very good! It needs some work, though. But is very good for beginner like you."
Paul smirks and nods, "I know, I know. It's still a work in progress."
Seth inserts himself, his snake cane firmly planted on the ground, "So, how are things with you, Svetlana?"
Svetlana avoids looking at him, instead focusing on Paul, "Da, fine, is fine. We are doing fine, thank you."
Seth looks at her and sees her fidgeting. He asks, "You OK? You seem a little more...distressed than usual. Is it the pressure of combat? I heard you lost some people close to you."
A few tears of blood well up in Svetlana's eyes. She brushes them away before they have a chance to fall. She looks at Seth with a mixture of anger and sadness, "You--you know?"
Seth equably answers, "Of course I do. Were you close to any of them in particular?"
"Da. Abdullah Rachman. He comes from Syria. He was, at time of his Embrace, 19-years-old."
Paul's eyebrows shoot up in surprise, "Whoa, that's young."
Svetlana continues, "Da. He was...good person. Very talented Blood Sorcerer. He stayed back and fought while rest of us all fled down to Nosferatu Warrens."
Seth tilts his head to the side, "Oh, so you've been down there, huh? How was it?"
"I cannot complain. I should not. The Nosferatu were kind to us, they gave us place to rest, new clothes, little money, and some blood to drink. Then, after that, we leave them."
The Setite nods and hums, "I see. Interesting."
Paul doesn't put his hand on Svetlana's shoulder when he reassuringly says, "It'll be OK. Once you've got the rest of your fellow Assassins by your side, you're gonna kick these fucking goons out of here for good. Just you wait and see." He's got that kindness in his eyes that Svetlana greatly appreciates.
Svetlana nods in agreement, "Da. Da, we will. We must. They must be Judged. They must be punished, not only for what they did to Abdullah but also for what they did to the others. Especially to the others who could not fight back."
John comes over and pats his Childe on the back, "We'll get 'em all. Don't you worry."
She smiles at her Sire and says, "I know we will. We must." There is a steely resolve in her eyes that John hasn't seen before.
He's impressed by this. He's proud of her.
Seth turns towards him and comments, "She has fire in those eyes of hers, doesn't she?"
"Mm-hmm."
After going over a few more things with Thomas, Paul, and Seth, the new Banu Haqim Primogen leaves this place, his Childe following closely behind.
There's a new Primogen in town and let's hope that he has the ear of all the non-Blade Assamites in this Domain. Their support in the upcoming struggles could mean the difference between Unlife and Final Death.
Several minutes later, at Vizier Mohammed's Haven...
Edwin, Seth's Ghoul, pulls up at the entrance of this grand and gaudy mansion in the heart of Al-Kushraf city.
The mansion is a massive, 2-storey structure. It's made entirely of white marble and has a grandiose air about it. The entrance is adorned with a series of columns and intricate carvings. There's a large fountain in the courtyard, spraying water into the air.
The gardens around the mansion are well-kept and immaculate, with lush greenery and hedges that are perfectly trimmed.
Someone in traditional livery bows her head and escorts the High Priest inside. Vizier Mohammed is pacing about and speaking to his Ghouls, who are similarly dressed, about something or the other. He looks quite distraught.
As the Typhonist approaches, snake head cane in hand, the Assamite waves them off and dismisses them. They file out simultaneously, 1 after the other. That kind of unquestioning devotion impresses Seth very much.
Edwin has been acting rather strange these past few nights, so Seth makes sure to keep a close eye on him. He can't let Edwin know that he suspects him of anything, either.
Regardless, Seth approaches the Vizier and opines, "A grand Haven, Mr. Khan. Every time I step in here, I see something new. Quite the regal aura. Your Ghouls are also quite...dutiful. That's good. My Edwin could learn a thing or 2 from them."
Vizier Mohammed chuckles and waves the Serpent away, "Oh, please, Mr. Steale! How you flatter me with your words. You were right...last night when we spoke at that decommissioned power plant- John would try something, however I did not expect it to be so...b--brazen!"
Seth softly smirks and plants his butt on the white fainting couch, "Yes, I was right, wasn't I? Of course I was. And you followed my advice: give him whatever he wants."
The Vizier sits opposite him on a smaller couch and grumbles, "I know, I know. However, I am afraid of what will come next."
Seth remains composed, "I'm not. It was only a matter of time before push came to shove. You see as Setites, we believe, to a certain extent, in giving people whatever it is they want, whatever it is their heart desires. We do all of this in the hopes of liberating them from the very same."
Vizier Mohammed dryly nods, "And if what they want is not...proper?"
Seth lets out a terse chuckle, "Well, we still give it to them all the same. Of course, I myself deviate from Ministry orthodoxy on this matter. These...people, they're already drowning in modernity and I'm the one in the big boat on the stormy seas, with the life preservers."
The Vizier growls, "I know. I know. It is just that--that I feel like I am betraying my Clan by doing this, by granting the Blade a 'small' concession, I am effectively giving them the whole tent!" he sighs and rubs his forehead, "How did things end up this way?" he mutters under his breath.
Seth replies, "Oh, it's not all your fault, Mr. Khan. All we can do now is sit back and let them do the dirty work of getting rid of the SI. I have no doubt that many will perish along the way."
The Assamite ex-Primogen's expression darkens, "As long as those who perish are those of the Blade."
"That's the idea, yes."
The High Priest looks down at the shiny marble flooring and sees a faint reflection of himself in it. He smiles a little and continues, "John Suarez is an...interesting person, wouldn't you say?"
Vizier Mohammed shrugs, "He is a Banu Haqim, like us, yes, but he and his Childe are so unlike us as well. I know I should not have such impure and improper thoughts, but I pray that he and his Childe meet a swift Final Death."
Yikes.
Seth hisses and his eyes turn into slits, he menacingly fixes his gaze on the Vizier, "Mr. Khan, I couldn't give less of a shit about what happens to John Suarez, but if you ever say that about Svetlana, so help me Typhon, I will have you dragged out into the sun." He keeps his tone of voice neutral throughout all of this.
There isn't a hint of rage in his threat. He just says it as a matter of fact.
The Vizier surreptitiously apologizes, "F--Forgive me, oh great High Priest. I spoke out of line. My most humble and sincere apologies. I--I--" he stammers, trying to find the right words to say.
Seth's eyes return to the way they were, and he lazily waves his hand, "I understand how...zealous you Banu Haqim can get. Yes, John is an obstacle that's better dealt with sooner rather than later, but Svetlana...oh, she--she's something else." A wide smile stretches across his face. The thought of her makes him very happy indeed.
He leans forward, "So, here's the deal: you do as you said and put John in touch with whoever it is you're planning on putting him in touch with. Play along, you're not fighting the SI, so it's no big deal. Give him whatever he wants, whoever he wants. Are we clear on that?"
The Banu Haqim quickly nods, "Yes, yes." He looks up at the large crystal chandelier hanging above them and wonders how he let it all come to this. He wonders many things, mostly pertaining to himself and his interests.
He knows, deep down, that his guest is pulling the strings from behind the curtains.
The Viper strokes the emerald eyes on his snake head cane and compliments the aesthetic of the Vizier's Haven, "You've made quite a name for yourself, Mohammed."
Vizier Mohammed puffs his chest out and boasts, "Indeed! I built this Haven with my very own hands. Allah has been gracious to me." He nods at his guest, "As have you, oh great High Priest of Set."
Seth raises an eyebrow, "Oh? Well, heh, I'm glad you think that way. Don't you worry, Mr. Khan. When the time comes, when the Blade has outlived its usefulness to us, we'll be sure to make their end as...quick as possible. You'll see." He gives the Vizier a sinisterly reassuring smile.
The Vizier lets out a relieved sigh, "Thank you, oh great High Priest. As long as you are able to distinguish those who are of the Blade from those who are not. As Primogen for the Banu Haqim in this Domain, my loyalty has and will always be to you. I hope and pray that you remember this. Always."
Seth blandly says, "Don't worry. Those Assamites whose minds haven't been...infected by the Blade's fanatical teachings will be spared, but I can't make any guarantees. You know that the Blade's teachings are...contentious and attractive to certain kinds of people. So, don't blame me if I'm forced to take some drastic measures." His tone of voice is rather cold throughout all of this.
The Vizier lowers his head, "I know, I know. It is not that I disagree with all of the Blade's teachings- I myself am an advocate for the 2-State Solution- however, I must also concede that their zeal and devotion to their cause is...somewhat worrying." He's got that worried look about him.
Seth shrugs and snidely remarks, "I don't give a damn what's happening miles and miles away from us- it has no effect on us in any way, shape, or form. I don't concern myself with all that...political crap. It's not of great interest to me."
Of course he'd say something like that.
The High Priest goes on, "There was a time when I was being groomed to take on the mantle of political leadership in the town of my birth, but Typhon, it would seem, had other plans in store for me."
Vizier Mohammed queries, "Was it worth it?"
Seth lifts his chin and smugly says, "Oh, definitely."
He looks around and admires the finery of the Vizier's Haven, "Besides, if I were to be honest, I think I've done way better as High Priest of Set than I would've done as Mayor of a small town or patriarch of a political dynasty. Either way, Plaintry is in capable hands right now, or so I hear."
Vizier Mohammed stands up and clasps his hands together. He offers, "I have recently had some renovations done. Would you like to see them, Mr. Steale?"
Seth also gets up. He twirls his cane, "It would be my pleasure. Lead the way, Mr. Khan."
The Vizier does just that and boasts about how he remodeled and refurbished parts of the place. His pride and joy are the new rooms he had built that houses some of his antiques, "I've been collecting them for quite some time now, you see."
The Assamite Vizier has a very successful and lucrative business in antique trading. He deals mostly with relics from the MENA region. He's got everything from pottery and jars to furniture and jewelry.
He gestures to an impressionist painting on the wall and declares, "This was a piece I had commissioned a few months ago. A Toreador artist's rendition of the great and mighty Alamut!"
Seth is mildly impressed, "Alamut? Somewhere in Afghanistan, right?" he doesn't know (or care) much about the subject matter at hand, but he'll play along, anyway.
The Vizier pensively lowers his head, "I pray that I shall see Alamut. Even this painting and others like it cannot come close to the majesty of Alamut!"
He gets all dreamy and starts gesticulating wildly, "Imagine! The high towers, the winding stairs, the ancient books and tomes, the secret passageways, the sacred chambers, the--"
Seth nods along, staving off yawns, "Mm-hmm."
"--the power, the prestige, the glory!" the Banu Haqim Vizier excitedly finishes.
Seth has to hold his laughter in, "Well, I can imagine that it's very pretty and impressive. For now, however, let's stay focused on the task at hand. The squeaky wheel gets the grease: we use the Blade to get rid of the SI, after that we swiftly and quietly deal with whoever remains by ourselves. How's that sound?" he has a smirk on his face throughout all of this.
Vizier Mohammed snaps back to reality and clears his throat, "Yes. Th--This is a necessary plan. As long as you assure me that my fellow Assamites, those who have not been seduced and led astray by the Blade's teachings, remain unharmed and untouched by our machinations."
Seth steps into the Vizier's personal bubble, "As High Priest of the Ministry, as Typhon is my witness, I assure you that not a single hair on their head will be harmed." He puts his hand on the Vizier's shoulder and gives it a firm squeeze.
Almost too firm. Seth's expression conceals sinister intent that not even Mr. Khan can detect. He's playing a very dangerous game, and he has no idea how fucked he and his Clan are. He has essentially signed all their Final Death warrants.
Including his own, most likely. And that of Miss Kawasaki's.
Seth reminds the Assamite, "Whatever you do, you do not go near Svetlana. She's mine. Do you understand that?"
Vizier Mohammed gulps, "Forgive me if I overstep a boundary, Mr. Steale, but why the fixation on her?"
Seth chuckles, "I think I'm in love with her, Mr. Khan. It's a...wonderful a--and strange feeling. It's been a while since I've fe--felt this way." His tone of speaking is somewhat dreamy throughout all of this, but there's a hint of obsession to it as well.
The Vizier gently nods, "I see. Have you told her how you feel?"
"I've...hinted at it. She's a...a woman who's wrapped herself in this shroud of secrecy. And I want, more than anything in the world, to--to rip it off her and take a peek at what's inside. I'm sure it's beautiful, whatever it is. Her trauma, her past, her pain, or some secret she lugs around with her."
Nasty. Vile. Sickening!
Seth runs his hand along his cane, "I know that she's in my Unlife for a reason. I just can't put my finger on it just yet. I--I think I must be going mad because, you see, the closer I get to her, the more she...closes herself off from me, and the more I want to get closer to her..."
A sort of angry look overtakes his features. His eyes turn into slits once more, "It's that damn Sire of hers holding her back, holding her away from me. Even Paul is trying to have her to himself. I wouldn't even be surprised if that Scottish son of a bitch Tommy has tried to put his Repulsive hands all over my--my sweet Svetlana!"
He's getting worked up over things he's inventing in his head! This is madness! Paul is simply being friendly with Svetlana, as is Tommy. Neither man has any intention of laying with her!
He tries to calm himself down by taking some deep breaths through his lifeless lungs and forcing them out. He takes a moment to compose himself. He needs to focus on his grand plan.
Seth resumes his speech, "She's so shy, so timid, so bashful and reserved. I guess women from her part of the world are just naturally like that, y'know? Like helpless little angelic dolls. Damsels truly in distress."
Vizier Mohammed doesn't know what to say to any of this. He's completely taken aback by every word. He stands there in silence, waiting for his guest to finish. Spineless as he may be, he's not an obsessive sociopathic creep.
He offers some generic advice, "Why don't you...talk to her? Take her to a place that is nice. She may just need time. Understand her on her terms."
Seth lightly scoffs at this, "I tried asking her out- for a drive through the city- but all of this started happening and now I don't even know when she'll be free for that. Still, the last thing I want is for her to get hurt."
Vizier Mohammed gives the Viper a look, "In my most humble opinion, it is not quite healthy or wise for a man to be so...fixated on a woman. Especially if she does not express any interest in you."
The Serpent blithely replies, "It's not a matter of whether she's interested or not. When has that ever stopped anyone before?"
The Assamite is deeply disturbed by that. Sensing this is going nowhere, he bows his head and says, "Farewell, oh great High Priest of Apep the Serpent."
Seth gets the hint, strokes his cane, and follows him to the exit, "Ah, of course. It's usually me who's the one giving advice and hearing people come to me with their so-called 'problems'. I won't apologize for anything I said, Mr. Khan. I love Svetlana Bobrov, and I will make her mine...1 way or another."
The Banu Haqim Vizier hastily nods and quickens his pace, "Yes, yes, of course. If--if that is what you wish, then so be it. I, of course, will continue to support you and find common ground with the Ministry."
Seth smiles and says goodbye to the Assamite, "We'll speak again, very soon, Mr. Khan. Don't worry, we'll have this whole thing dealt with in no time. Just keep playing along. Be the grumpy ex-Primogen everyone now expects you to be, but remember, always and forevermore, you are my ally in this grand plan of ours. Remember that."
Vizier Mohammed lowers his head and repeats those words to himself.
Idiot.
At most, he's just another pawn who's gonna meet a very terrible end in the coming nights. Seth's not gonna stop his inevitable purge once the last Blade member has been destroyed. No, he wants EVERY single Assamite (save for Svetlana) turned to ash and blown into the wind, to be forgotten by the sands of time.
Literally every single Banu Haqim.
As Seth gets in his luxurious cream-colored sedan, that Malkavian's unhinged voice echoes in his head, "THE ASSAMITE! THE ASSAMITE! THE ASSAMITE WILL BE YOUR DOWNFALL!"
That particular Lunatic had walked in on Seth and his Sire, Rafael, in the middle of a ritual being conducted. Or, that's what it looked like, at least. In truth, Rafael had given his Childe his final test of his faith in Typhon.
Yes, that old crypt was the place where Seth Steale Diablerized Sybil. Seth rolls down the window and thinks back to that fateful night. It was decades ago...
Rafael's voice was as smooth and charming as ever, "My son, my Childe. We have worked so long and hard to wear her down and send her into this Torpid state."
Seth responded, "Y--Yes. We have, but you still haven't told me why, Rafael. Why do all this? What do we hope to gain from an Elder, especially one as powerful as her, in Torpor?"
Rafael chuckled, "You still have not pieced it together, Seth?"
"Pieced what together? We both agreed to wear her down, night after night, but you refuse to tell me what the endgame is! I--I'm sick of being in the dark! I'm sick of being led on like this!"
"Patience, my Childe. Patience. You will soon see what Typhon has in store for you...now, tell me, what are your thoughts on Amaranth, hmm?" a sinister smirk flashed across Rafael's face.
Seth gasped, "D--Diablerie?! It's not bad, right? Messy and--and dangerous, you're not--oh my god, you--"
Rafael stroked his chin and chuckled, "You have finally figured it out! I'm surprised it took you this long. Tsk, tsk, tsk, I thought you were sharper than this, Seth."
The Viper glared at his Sire, "So you want to do it, then? You...you wanna D--Diablerize her? Is that why we wore her down and filled her head with all kinds of doubts about the future of our Clan and Kindred Society as a whole??"
Rafael sighed deeply and shook his head, "Oh, Seth. Even now, you fail to grasp and understand what is in front of you."
Seth gasped and his eyes widened in shock, "You--you want ME to Diablerize her?! She's an Elder and I'm still a Neonate; she'll take over my body and my mind! Are--are you crazy? Have you gone mad, Rafael? This plan is doomed to failure!"
Rafael gave him a very condescending look and a patronizing smile, "Oh, Seth. Why do you think we spent all those nights wearing her down and sowing the seeds of doubt into her heart and mind? Hmm? Do you think we broke her will for fun?"
Seth pieced some of it together, "Oh, so...so she won't be able to take over my heart or--or mind if I do go through with this. That's why we did what we did, to give me an advantage against her."
His Sire smiled, "Correct! Very good, Seth! Very good!"
He stepped forward and put his hands on his Childe's tense shoulders, "That's why I'm giving her to you. Consider this the final test of your faith in Typhon. If you can successfully Diablerize an Elder as powerful as Sybil, then you can do absolutely anything. Any. Thing."
Seth is snapped back to the present by some honking. A fast car zooms past him and some of the drivers behind start honking like maniacs. He curses under his breath and asks his Ghoul, "What was that?"
Edwin replies, "A street race of some kind, sir."
"Hmph. Great. Let's just get back home, Edwin."
The Ghoul faintly smiles, "As you wish, sir."
Back at the Vizier's grand mansion...
He's pacing about, hands behind his back, contemplating what he's gotten himself into. He prays that everything goes according to plan.
Whose plan, though?
Vizier Mohammed sits down on a nearby couch and dusts some lint off his garments. He sniffs and takes a moment to admire the beauty of his Haven.
He wistfully remarks, "Even the works of my hands cannot compare to the majesty of Alamut."
The Assamite walks to a room and finds Ms. Kawasaki sitting at a desk, writing out basic words that she has only recently learned how to spell. Things like "cat", "hat", "apple" and so on. Mr. Khan has taken it upon himself to teach his charge how to read and write in English.
He clears his throat and gently asks, "How goes the studies, Ms. Kawasaki?"
She has a somewhat vulnerable look on her face, which is in contrast to her permanent scowl, "Mmm...g--good. I am not sure if I am doing well or not. How will I know when I do well?"
Vizier Mohammed puts a comforting hand on her shoulder, "When you are able to write complete sentences, then you will know that you are doing well, Miss Kawasaki. I apologize for mentioning your illiteracy to the others earlier tonight, I had no other choice. I needed sympathy and I--"
She weakly nods, "I see. I--I have never had the need to read or write in any language before. It was not necessary for me to do such things. I--I remember first killing someone when I--I was just 7-years-old."
Vizier Mohammed covers his mouth with his hand, "Oh my! You were just a child!"
Ms. Kawasaki looks down and starts writing out more simple words. She repeats these words out loud, but there's a struggle, "CAT. HAT. APP-LE. Uh...what's this one?"
"Car."
"CAR."
Damn, just damn.
The Vizier sticks around to help his fellow Assamite with some more exercises and lessons. He offers her some advice on how to speak English better. He'll do whatever it takes to rectify the mistakes of the Web of Knives.
That's what he tells himself, at least.
After a while, he takes his leave and goes for a stroll around his mansion. He wants to be alone with his thoughts. As he walks along a row trimmed hedges and topiary, he feels a cold chill run down his spine.
He knows that the very foundation of his large Haven is the body of his Sire, Aamir. After Mohammed Diablerized Aamir, he expected the latter's corpse to break down and fade away into nothingness, leaving nothing but ashes behind.
It didn't happen.
Instead, Aamir's corpse remains, stubborn as ever. Even after all these decades, his corpse is in some kind of Torpid/Not-Torpid state. Usually, when vamps are destroyed, they crumble and turn to ash, no exceptions.
But Aamir's corpse has remained and doesn't break down at all. This has left Mohammed quite disturbed. Of course, Banu Haqim have a thing for Diablerie, but if anyone found out what Mr. Khan had done, it would be his head rolling down the steps.
Aamir had quite a strong sense of right and wrong and wasn't a fan of his Childe's spinelessness and bootlicking tendencies. So, Mohammed and his Ghouls staked Aamir.
After the Diablerie had concluded, they had all hoped that the body would turn to ash. Instead, it lay there, completely still, and didn't rot or break down. Even though it's been decades since the sordid deed was done, it's almost as if Aamir is "alive" and well, merely deep in his Torpor.
So, Vizier Mohammed decided to bury the old and heavyset guy deep in the foundations of the place that'd become his grand mansion. After that, he began to remodel and redecorate the mansion over the years.
He thought that Aamir's corpse would've turned to dust by now. But alas, here they both are. So long as no nosy Auspex user comes poking around, everything should be as peachy and fine as can be.
The Vizier sighs deeply and returns to his mansion. He walks up some stairs to 1 of his many studies and sits down at his desk. He looks out the window at the moon and asks himself, "What have I gotten myself into? I do hope that the High Priest is a man of his word."
The Assamite will soon find out that such is not the case with somebody like Seth Steale.
The Vizier gets a sinking feeling in his chest and spends the rest of his night reading some old tomes about Alamut and its many ancient artifacts. He wants to be prepared for whatever may come his way.
(He got that particular book he's reading from an Awakened Mage in a bookstore in Bahrain).
Seth eventually returns to his Haven. Edwin parks the car and follows his Domitor inside. They both enter a room, and Edwin flips the light switches. The lights come on, very dimly (as they should be).
Seth plops down on his couch and exhales sharply. That Malkavian and his words keep echoing in his mind, but he dismisses it all as the meaningless ramblings of an unhinged Seer who probably didn't even know what he was talking about.
Is Svetlana that Assamite? Is she the one who's gonna be the High Priest's downfall?
The Typhonist dismisses this lingering thought with extreme prejudice, "NO! She--she's not the one. It has to be John. Yeah, it has to be him. So, that's why I gotta get rid of him. Then, Svetlana will need someone to comfort her- a shoulder to cry on, a rock to lean on. She'll need someone to take her in and keep her safe..."
He starts stroking his cane and grins wickedly, "I just need to get rid of John Suarez so that I can be there for her and help her pick up the shattered pieces...then, she'll finally belong to me. Not Tommy. Not Paul. Not anybody else. No one will be able to stop me from having her."
Edwin has been standing in silence for several minutes now.
Seth looks over his shoulder, "What's the matter, Edwin?"
The Ghoul dutifully responds, "You have quite a few unread messages on the Hunter-net.org forums, sir. I took the liberty of reading a few of them, sir. It's Farah, or FRH05 as her username goes."
The High Priest groans, "Ah, great. Farah. What does she want now, hmm? She's quite a handful, isn't she? Always demanding more info from me. She's a woman of action, I get that. She led the raid on Dubai and got rid of my Gangrel problem, great. What does she want now?"
The retainer replies, "She wants to meet with you, in-person, sir. She is quite insistent on it."
Seth dismissively waves his hand, "That's never gonna happen. I'm not stupid. I know that some of these Imbued Hunters can...sense a vampire! I'm not gonna let that happen. Nope, nope, nope."
"As you wish, sir. Shall I turn on the computer? I believe she's online right now, sir."
"Hm. Fine. Now that I think of it, I do have someone in mind. Yes, Edwin, boot up the PC. I need to have a chat with Farah. You see, she wants to meet in-person, but I'm not gonna let that happen. Ever. But I am willing to toss her and her crazy friends a VERY...juicy bone, heh."
A minute and a half later...
Seth is hit with some light from the screen and blinks rapidly. He then logs in to his Hunter-net.org account.
He types out a message for Farah: "FRH05. Farah. Good evening. I have seen your messages. Unfortunately, I've been busy as of late."
FRH05: "Ah, Charles. Good evening?! It's almost goodnight! You have some unusual timings. So, when can we meet?"
ScalyHand06: "Didn't you read what I just said? I've been busy as of late. Too many problems to deal with at work."
FRH05: "Hmmm, fair enough i suppose. any news on Eye0FH0RUS? Account has been inactive for days now. Im starting to think they didnt make it ;-("
Seth shakes his head in derision: "It was their choice to go around firebombing random places. They chose to walk down that path, wherever it led them."
Farah responds with a mix of crying and worried face emojis.
ScalyHand06: "Yes. My reaction exactly. Anyway, I've seen your recent messages. My answer is no: it's simply 2 risky 4 me. U have to understand but trust me when I say that the info I've provided you people so far has been quite...valuable."
FRH05: "I kno, I kno, but it would be nice 2 meet u in person! Plz? Its not like were gonna kill u or anything lol. We're on the same team here, Scaly! We're Hunters, Imbued with powers beyond our understanding. Vampires r the enemy. Ur one of the good ones! The info u gave us in Dubai was sooooooo helpful!"
ScalyHand06: "Well, my record on this website does speak for itself. I give people like you, fighters, substantial information. I'm not sure if there's anything else I can do beyond that, Farah."
FRH05: "Well, u did mention a new location, right? Some new place ur looking into or sth? Any specific rot or leech who needs a good Reckoning? We're soooooo eager to bring the Reckoning to this city!"
Seth faintly smirks, the dim glow of the computer screen reflecting off his amber eyes: "Ah yes, the Reckoning. It's coming, alright. Yes, I do have someone in mind, but I am still in the middle of gathering info abt them."
FRH05: "Music to my ears. I killed so many rots and leeches in DXB. I recall 1 of them, some beautiful woman (Australian by her accent iirc) extended her hand and tried to offer peace to me. What a joke lol. An insult! She deserved her end. We staked her and burned her on the spot!"
ScalyHand06: "Well, I'm happy to hear that you were able to carry out the Reckoning in Dubai, Farah."
FRH05: "This vampire's expression was so...kind, so soft, for a moment even I felt bad for her. But I remembered that she was an evil thing, a mistake who had lived for far too long. And so, I Reckoned her and her friends. Some of them got away tho :-\ :-|"
Seth's eyebrows shoot up and he types back: "Yes, what a shame indeed. I have it on good authority (dont press me on this) that those who got away fled here to Al-Kushraf."
FRH05: "Rly?! U kno where these rot-leeches r hiding?! In this city?! Right here, right now?!"
"Easy, easy. I am still gathering info. Once I have something solid, I'll send you a message with all of the relevant details. Until then, you don't take a step or make a single wrong move."
FRH05, "U might still have ur uses, Charles. My people and I will make sure that these rots & leeches get the Reckoning they deserve!"
Seth shakes his head: "I hope for nothing less from you and your people. Remember this..."
"????"
"I will never ask you to do anything that I wouldn’t do myself. We are in this together, Farah."
"We most certainly are, Charles. We most certainly are."
ScalyHand06: "Now, if there's anything else? No. Also, pls don't spam me again. I know you're impatient and itching for a fight, but flooding my inbox is not going to magically make vampires appear before you for you 2 shoot at or whatever."
Farah sends a sad face emoji and asks him about some other details about the Kindred "threat" in this city. The High Priest indulges her, making sure to remain cautious and careful with his words.
The conversation continues for several minutes until Seth ends it with this message: "Now, if that will be all, I must go. I need to get some rest now. Im a very busy man, unlike u."
FRH05: "F off! I'm busy too! I'm also determined to see every single rot and leech driven from these lands. 1 way or another, WE ARE bringing the Reckoning to Al-Kushraf city. After that, Abu Dhabi and the whole of the UAE will soon follow in our path! These filthy creatures can't hide from us forever!"
ScalyHand06: "Well said, Farah. Well said."
FRH05: "I cant wait for the day when we finally meet each other in person, Charles!"
ScalyHand06: "Dont hold ur breath. Goodbye now. Pls, once again, do not msg me unless u are literally dying in a ditch and need help. If u have any more questions, go ahead and ask them. I'll get back to you in my own time to answer them."
FRH05: "No need to be so rude, OK? Jus remember what I promised: Favors are the currency of this world. You help us and we'll be willing to consider help u with whatever issues you might b having."
Seth chuckles and tells himself, "She's already helping me. She just doesn't know it. It's not like she ever will."
His fingers move across the keyboard and he types: "Very well then. Goodbye."
"kk, ty. Goodbye."
Seth logs out of the website and turns the computer off. He stands up, stretches, and leaves the room. He heads to another room to clear his mind, meditate, and focus on the next step of his grand and sinister plan.
He's gonna have to be very careful when dealing with these Hunters and their leader. He needs to play his cards right if he wants to get what he wants and to avoid being burned.
He's also decided to wield them as a weapon against John. Of course, he has to be tactful and subtle about it. Getting found out would be major problem for the High Priest and his schemes (to put it VERY mildly).
As the Typhonist is deep in meditation, legs crossed, he whispers softly, "Svetlana. Oh, Svetlana. I wanna take you. I wanna be with you, even if you resist...I want you. I have to have you. That damn Sire of yours, all that Blade claptrap, it's--it's all in my way, though. We could be so happy together..."
The Malkavian's words keep echoing in his mind, but he grits his teeth and dismisses them, "...we could rule together. You and I could do so much together...but there's so much that's in my way."
He takes a deep breath, exhales, and opens his serpentine eyes. He stares into the mirror before him and sees his reflection. He hisses and gets up, "I just gotta get rid of John and free you from the Blade's fanatical teachings. Then, you'll be mine, Svetlana. You'll be all mine. You'll see."
The Serpent stands up, "And 1 night, we'll turn around, look back at all this, and laugh. We'll be so powerful by then, Svetlana...oh I never expected to fall this deeply in love with you, but from the moment I first laid eyes on you, something just--just clicked. You're so...beautiful. What more is there to say?"
Seth's limerence towards Svetlana is growing and growing by the unsettling second. He's starting to act in ways he never would've thought possible. He's going to do whatever it takes to have her and make her his own.
There's no turning back now.
Oh, dear.
John goes back to Abdullah's Haven with some cardboard boxes he got from a nearby convenience store. It's a bit chilly outside, but the inside of Abdullah's Haven does feel quite a bit musty and dry.
He puts all of the departed Blood Sorcerer's stuff away in those boxes, tapes them up, and then carries them outside, where he puts them into a vehicle that he spent extra money to rent for the night.
Margot accosts the Assamite and sternly demands, "Your friend owes me money, and we need to settle this."
John looks at her and his shoulders slump, "Fine, fine, OK, but you get the deposit back, right?"
The Ventrue landlady evasively replies, "Not necessarily." She goes on some legalese tangent and uses some confusing terms. It's obvious that she's trying to screw him over, but he's got no other choice but to play along.
By the end of it all, he rolls his eyes and says, "Hmph. Fine. Gimme...a couple of nights and you'll have your fucking money."
Satisfied, she raises her chin and walks off to shakedown someone else.
John picks up a box and faintly mutters, "Bitch."
"I heard that."
"Hmph," John scoffs and loads the last of his friend's things in the trunk of the car. He gets it and tells the driver to get going. They head off and John checks the time on his phone.
At this time of night, the city is still crawling with life and people (of the mortal variety, but you never know). The neon lights of the buildings are bright, palm trees sway in the wind, and the sounds of music and traffic can be heard in the distance.
Throngs of mortals go about, totally unaware of the bloodsuckers (and other supernatural beings) that "live" amongst them. John watches the city go by, the new position of Primogen for his Clan already weighing heavily on his mind.
However, he now has the ear of all the Assamites who are not affiliated with the Blade of Haqim. If he can get them onboard in this fight, then they'd all have a better chance at succeeding.
The speedy Assamite whispers to himself, "Fingers crossed."
Once back in his industrial-style loft apartment, Mr. Suarez begins to take the boxes (1 by 1) up to his Haven. The taxi driver, a kind Sri Lankan man, offers to help, but John insists that he can do it.
The Assamite puts the boxes in his living room and goes back downstairs to pay the taxi driver. He gives the driver his money and tips him a few dirhams, which is sincerely appreciated.
The taxi driver bows his head, smiles widely, and waves as he drives off. John, satisfied with the outcome, sighs, "I know money's tight right now, but I couldn't let Abdullah's stuff get thrown away."
His phone vibrates and he checks to see a text message from his boss, Praveen: "Hello, john. Hope all is well. U free 2moro 2 do private Kenpo training for someone. Real bloody VIP here, bhai! A Sheikh's son!!!"
John's clenches his jaw and winces slightly. He goes over a few messages to send as way of response, but he erases them as quickly as he had typed them out.
Finally, he sends the reply: "Unfortunately, I can't. I have a very important appointment tomorrow. Im sorry, Master-P."
Praveen responds with some angry face emojis and asks: "Cant u reschedule whatever it is? arey, john, this is once in bloody lifetime opportunity. You wont get like this again."
John tenses his facial muscles and types back: "You think I don't know that?? But this is important, OK? You have others, send them."
Master-P texts back after a few moments: "YOLO, John. You Only Live Once. You are throwing your life away on all kinds of bloody nonsense, yaar. When u come back, we have 2 have srs discussion abt ur future here @ the dojo- it is NOT looking too brite."
John can't help but chuckle, considering that he's older (in total cumulative years) to his boss and his boss's parents, most likely.
He shakes his head and his fingers glide across the touchscreen keyboard: "I am not throwing my life away, OK? You're not getting rid of me that easily. I just need time 2 sort out some stuff. Once done, I'll be back at the dojo. Truth is, I love Kenpo, I love teaching it, I love doing it."
"OK, fine. But this is the last time. I cannot keep doing like this with you. U should not waste ur life like this, yaar. You're almost 40 now, no? u r not getting any younger, habibi."
John snickers, knowing full well that he'll always remain forever in his 30s while Praveen will all grow old and wither away as time steadily marches on.
As smug as he might've once felt, that thought is now a sobering reminder of the downsides of Unlife- others around you WILL fade away while the Kindred essentially remain "frozen in time".
After a few seconds, John texts back: "I know that. Im sorry for this, Praveen, but it's just the way things are right now. PLS try 2 understand."
"Even my patience has its limits, Mr. suarez. Do not expect me 2 be soooo understanding the next time, bhai. I am worried abt you, John."
John sighs deeply and looks off into the distance and says, "Yeah, I'm worried, too."
His fingers go across the virtual keyboard: "I promise to make it up 2 you, Master-P. And I will come back to the dojo soon. No more excuses, no more delays. Until then, pls try to manage w/o me."
Praveen's response comes in swiftly: "U have a few days to get your things sorted out. if u fail to return by then, I will hv no choice but to let you go."
The Assamite Primogen clicks his tongue and lowers his head. Being out of a job in a city such as Al-Kushraf isn't exactly ideal, but he'll just have to deal with it.
He taps out a response: "Understood. Im sorry."
"OK. Goodnight, Mr. suarez."
John puts his phone back and proceeds to arrange the boxes of Abdullah's things into neat piles in a sparsely furnished corner of his Haven.
He's still in the process of decorating the place, but the industrial-loft style does suit him. It's good enough for his needs. Rent's a bit high (reasons), but what else is new?
After a while, John sits back on his bed. His head is thrown against the pillows, and his eyes are closed. His earphones are plugged deep into his ears, blasting the velvety voice of Kristin Mainhart straight into his ears.
He lazily moves his head and hums. As he's doing so, he recalls a conversation he had with Abdullah when he was just new to Dubai. John had decided he'd had enough of the reactionary cesspool that was (and still is) America.
He had a myriad of reasons for wanting to leave the US of A.
(To be fair, it was the 1990s. And that decade was fucking awful. Terrible, even!)
He smuggled himself onto whatever flight was heading towards the United Arab Emirates. It wasn't easy, but he managed. Security was quite lax back then and John was quite fast.
John was expecting Banu Haqim, but he wasn't expecting many of them to be of the Blade, like himself. Abdullah and he soon became good friends.
1 night, as the 2 vampires were walking alongside a pier near the beach, they'd talked about the future and what it held. They also talked about the role of the Kindred in bringing about a better world for all.
Abdullah did a wide gesture to the dark sky above, "I dream of a better world, John. A better world for all, Kindred and mortal alike. As Banu Haqim, we are capable of bringing it about through our deeds and actions, are we not, habibi?"
John had his hands in his pockets and stopped in his tracks, "I uh...I guess so, yeah. They um...don't call us 'Judges' and 'Mediators' for nothing, I suppose. We should be able to change the world, Abdullah, and we will. We could, it's just a matter of..."
"Yes?"
"Getting things done. Bringing it about, if you will. I want the world to be a better place, too. Hell, I'm sure almost everyone around us wants the same thing, too. Well, I hope that's what they dream about as well."
Abdullah softly chuckled, "Yes, then it is a matter of...perspective, is it not? The mortals might not necessarily see the way things we Kindred do, so someone must guide them. Gently and kindly, of course."
John looked over at his friend, "Is it our job to show them the way? We might be great at fighting, but teaching, leading, nurturing, and guiding? I feel that's someone else's job, Abdullah. I'm not entirely sure our Clan is cut out for that sorta thing, y'know?"
"Hm. Perhaps you are correct, my friend. Perhaps there is someone else who will enlighten the mortals and show them where they err. Somebody, maybe, who's willing to sacrifice themselves for a greater good."
John's eyebrows shot up, "Well, when you put it like that, sure. I wanna see that future come true, Abdullah. It's better than whatever we're currently staring at now, lemme tell you that much. Anyway, let's go."
The Blood Sorcerer nodded and the 2 walked along the pier, enjoying the somewhat pleasant breeze of the cold night. That was years ago, prior to Svetlana's Embrace.
Back to the Vizier...
Mr. Khan is relaxing on his lavish bed. His bedroom is large and spacious. The bed is big and very soft. His dresser is said to be made of a type of wood that no mortal has ever seen before.
He's going through an old photo album that he keeps under his pillows. He sees his Sire, Aamir, surrounded by so many orphaned children. They look so happy as this dark-skinned heavyset old man with a long gray beard brings some cheer to the lives of these poor kids.
For a vampire, he always had quite a cheery disposition, sorta like an Arabian Santa Claus. A kid even called him that once, and he chortled and went along with it.
Vizier Mohammed feels guilt-stricken for what he did to his own Sire- he didn't just Diablerize the poor guy, he erased the little joy he brought to these poor orphans by demolishing the orphanage (through forged papers citing non-existent safety hazards) and getting the place torn down.
Soon after, the Vizier began to build his mansion (the very one he's extravagantly living in right now) on the rubble of that place. That's how it all started.
Aamir caught wind of his Childe's inhuman treachery, so Mohammed had no other choice but to silence the old man and make the body disappear.
He closes the photo album and shoves it under the pillows. He lays down on his back and lets out a long, low exhale, "I--I'm so sorry, Aamir. I do not know why your body refuses to decompose, even after all these years. Is it Allah's way of punishing me for Diablerizing you?"
The Assamite stares up at the ceiling, "For what I did to your beloved orphanage? Those children were hopeless, Aamir. You only made them feel happy for a few moments. The rest of their days were miserable, so what was the point in any of it, hmm?"
The Vizier gets off the bed and walks over to the window. He cracks the curtains slightly, looks out, and then closes them again. He makes sure that they're all locked and double-checked. Can't have a single ray of the approaching sun coming through!
He says to himself, "I should not regret my actions. Allah has blessed me and brought great prosperity and wealth...if only you could see me now, Aamir. It is unfortunate that you will never live to see what Alamut will become very soon. So many new discoveries will be made, and the Banu Haqim will be its heroes and pioneers."
The Assamite sits back down on the bed and clasps his hands together. His lips quiver, "You would've been so proud if--if only you weren't so short-sighted and stubborn. Tch."
He lies back down, but his body is tense, and he can't get himself to relax. He doesn't deserve relaxation. Most of those orphans wound up slipping through the cracks and some of them even starved to death, and for what? A big-ass mansion?
It's not enough, though. It's never enough for these kinds of people.
"Allah is kind, Aamir. He forgives, I know he does. He will forgive me, too, yes, I know he will. I--I should not feel ashamed for--for what I did. In a way, it also benefits our Clan."
He refuses to elaborate on how his fancy Haven benefits anyone except himself and maybe Miss Kawasaki, who is given her own room in another wing of the mansion. It's quite small.
The Vizier's eyes are droopy and he yawns, "I--I will rest now. There was no other option. I had to make Aamir disappear, otherwise the others would start to get suspicious. At least they have stopped asking about him now. Good."
Moments later, the sun begins its grand ascent over the horizon. As the rising sun begins to hit the windowsill, the Vizier is fast asleep. And yet, his nightmares continue nagging away at him.
He remembers that gray thawb that his Sire was wearing when he was buried deep in the foundations of his mansion. Aamir frequently wore that along with his checkered ghutrah, which was wrapped around his head.
Once the sun has risen, the Kindred in this corner of the globe fully succumb to the lulling pull of the day-sleep. Some "sleep" easier than others in this gilded cage of a city.
Chapter 19: Slasher- Part 1
The sun mercilessly beams down on the city below. People in this city are still reeling from the chaotic and violent events of the past few nights (as far they're aware of it). The destruction of the Marjan Tower is still heavy on the minds of many, as are a few other events.
But no one can (or should) be permitted to draw connections between these events, and if they were to, vampires certainly cannot be suspected.
It's a really hot day outside. The news has moved on from the tragedy (they weren't too interested in it to begin with). Some people have moved on as well. Others continue to mourn the many losses.
A comprehensive body count is yet to be provided by the Emirati authorities, but one shouldn't hold one's breath.
Vehicles roll on the paved roads, traffic builds up as the clock ticks closer and closer to afternoon, and a few people sit on their balconies, basking in the light of the sun.
A warm and sultry wind blows over the city. The sounds of the busy streets can be heard all around- honking horns, screeching tires, a cacophony of conversations, vendors hawking their wares to tourists, and the like.
Just another day in Ersatz Dubai. The tall towers of glass and steel pierce the sky above and reflect the bright rays of the sun. Afternoon eventually gives way to evening and the sun begins its slow and steady descent.
As soon as that great ball of fire has set, the Kindred begin to stir awake from their day-sleep. Their Beasts, rife with insatiable Hunger, rouse them from their day-long slumbering.
Svetlana wakes up in her room. Her eyes pop wide open and she springs up from her bed. Her room feels very dry and stuffy, the fan above spins but does not provide any relief. It's quite hot inside. She forces some deep breaths.
Despite being asleep for many hours on end, her back is sore, and she feels like she's been tossing, twitching, and turning all day. A few horrid memories haunt her mind- particularly of that time she was raped when she was just 18.
She feels those strong and hairy hands holding her down and removing her clothing. She doesn't want to think about it, but she can't stop herself. The pain and humiliation are overwhelming.
The Assamite shakes her head a few times and puts her hands over her face, "No! No! No! Is in the past. I--I am safe here. They cannot hurt me, he--he cannot hurt me."
After a while, she stops trembling, takes a quick shower, and gets dressed. Tonight, she dresses for work and not combat. She puts on a knee-length bodycon dress, white flats, and a brown-colored scarf. The scarf is loosely draped around her neck, and the ends are wrapped around her left arm.
She brushes her hair a bit and makes sure that it's well-combed and neat. She needs the work more than anything else right now- John can meet with whoever to discuss the next steps to be taken against the Second Inquisition menace. Until then, she's gotta work and keep her head down.
After all the rather brutal fighting over these past few nights, babysitting some lil kids, Svetlana could use that time away to bring her Humanity back up a little. That's not a bad idea, all things considered.
Even if she is stabbing the shit out of fascists who absolutely deserve it, she's gotta remember that she's still a human being. Of course, one could endlessly debate on whether killing such cretin diminishes one's Humanity, but that's beside the point.
The Assamite Neonate leaves her Haven, but as soon as she steps out, she hears some rustling noises in the living room. Little Chloe's Wraith giggles and flickers in and out. It's as if it's teasing her Fetter, trying to get her attention.
Svetlana sighs deeply, "Chloe. Chloe, I am busy, OK?"
"Setlana! Setlana! Come play with me! You don't want to play with meeeeee! Weeee, come see! Come help find me Barbie!"
Svetlana feels a little drained. Her body hurts and her mind aches. She feels so horrible seeing this long-gone child float and whoosh around like nothing had ever happened.
The Assamite's lips quiver and she says, "Go and hide. I will...find you later." That usually seems to work with the kid.
The ghostly little girl vanishes from sight, her giggling growing fainter and fainter. Svetlana is left alone. She breathes out through her nostrils and decides to look for a suitable neck to chomp down on.
She's gotta keep her Beast at bay. Her thoughts are far too muddled and grim to focus on anything EXCEPT for satiation of the bloodiest variety. Once she exits her apartment building, she spots a few potential candidates.
Her Hunger incessantly gnaws at her as she scans the crowd for an early(ish) dinner. After a while, she spies a young woman who is wearing a green hijab, a black blouse, and some baggy pants. Her brown skin is flushed pink and sweaty, and her clothes are stained with a bit of perspiration.
She turns to a corner and, with trembling hands, brings a lit-up cigarette to her mouth. She takes a long drag and exhales. The woman then takes another drag and coughs. The smoke swirls around her head.
Svetlana approaches, keeping her head low. She ducks behind a dumpster and looks over her shoulder to make sure that no one is looking. The Assamite draws near, and the young woman looks around in a panic.
Svetlana tiptoes towards her and lunges forward, fangs already out. She yanks that chick's sweaty neck to the side and sinks her sharp fangs into her skin. The young woman lets out a muffled whimper, and her limbs flail as the Assamite feeds on her.
Blood fills the Neonate's hungry mouth. The eternal Beast within compels her to finish this poor mortal off, but Svetlana resists the inhuman urge and pulls away once she's taken what is required.
She drinks in the warmth of her victim's blood. It's been a while since she's last drank, and the feeling is rather comforting. This woman's blood is rather thick and has a tangy, salty taste.
Once done, the woman's eyes glaze over and her body goes limp. Svetlana licks the wound shut, checks for a pulse (faint but there), and leaves her near the dumpster. She props the woman's back against it and looks at her with a pained expression.
The Neonate softly whispers, "I am so sorry." She shakes her head and quickly leaves the woman behind.
The Assassin has got her 1st client for tonight- a working mother of 1. She's a young woman, probably in her 30s. She works as a HR manager for a large firm, but even then, her pay is rather meager.
So, she moonlights as a freelance photographer. Her child is a 7-year-old who talks with a slight lisp. The mortal and Svetlana already agreed on the payment for this evening's work.
The woman says she'll be back after about 3 hours, so Svetlana makes herself "at home" and watches this little boy. After about an hour, she goes to the kitchen and makes him some chicken nuggets from a packet.
When the stove's flames come on, her Rötschreck momentarily triggers. She quickly shakes her head and returns to her senses. She sprinkles the chicken nuggets with some seasoning, waits for the oil to get hot, and fries them up.
The boy is sitting at the table and coloring a picture. He has his tongue poking out as he's intently focusing on his work. Svetlana looks over his shoulder and sees that he's drawing a bunch of smiling faces.
After a few minutes, she plates the nuggies and gives it to the kid, who is now standing up and waiting with a big smile. He takes a bite, and his eyes light up. That says everything.
The Assamite sits across from him and smiles warmly. He devours all of those nuggets, and all she can think about is how she herself can no longer partake in mortal food and drink- even something as simple and mundane as fried chicken nuggets.
Svetlana can only imagine what that might taste like, or even what a freshly made cup of coffee would taste like. Vanilla ice cream, mayhaps? No, it's blood and nothing but blood for all eternity.
After the kid's done, Svetlana takes him to the bathroom to wash his hands. She cleans his mouth with a towel and pats him on the head. He's not much of a talker. The boy goes back to his activities, and the vampire returns to the kitchen.
Svetlana washes her hands and puts the dishes in the dishwasher. As she's doing so, the little boy comes back out, and he holds a toy truck.
The Assamite looks down at him and asks, "Yes, malen'kiy?"
The small child makes "vroom vroom brah brah" noises at her and scoots off without saying a word. Svetlana just smiles, amused.
She checks her phone and sees that a few messages have come in from her other clients for the night. Her eyes narrow, and she looks over to see what's being said.
They remind her to be on time and give her last-minute instructions about any peculiarities that they (or their kids) might have. These clients have no clue what Svetlana is, and it is best that it's kept that way.
Svetlana shakes her head and replies that she'll be there soon.
Eventually, the little boy's mum returns. She looks really flustered and a thin sheen of sweat is visible on her forehead. The woman goes and checks on the boy, and she gives him a big hug.
She gives her child a big kiss on the cheek and says, "I'm so sorry I'm late, bunny."
Svetlana smiles and remarks, "He was good. No issue. I made for him food, like you said."
"You're an angel. Gimme a moment and I'll be with you shortly, yes?"
Svetlana bows her head slightly and picks up her purse, "Da. I will wait outside."
After a minute, the mortal returns with the agreed-upon amount of dirhams. It's quite pitiful, all things considered, but it's better than nothing. She herself understands this and says, "It's all I can afford at the moment, Svetlana."
Svetlana forces a smile and puts the money in her purse, and the 2 women exchange pleasantries. Svetlana goes to the bus stop and silently waits, sitting on a bench. She looks up at the moon and sighs softly.
She's gotta meet a few more clients, watch their kids, and earn some more cash for tonight. The more dirhams, the better. Even though the pay is rather shitty, the work itself is actually kinda enjoyable.
And that's how the Banu Haqim Neonate's night goes- going from house to house (usually middle-class types) and looking after a bunch of children. Some kids are boisterous whilst others doze off before 10 PM.
A mixed bag, all in all. The pay's not so great and the reasons of the parents usually vary from reasonable (not having much) to petty and absurd (you're a foreigner).
The Assamite does her babysitting work diligently and efficiently. She makes sure that the kids are fed and watched over. She does so with a kind hand, gentle heart, and empathetic eyes.
She does the absolute best that she can, and most of the parents appreciate it. Some remain ambivalent and feel "off" around her, and others simply don't give a fuck. They just need someone, literally anyone it would seem, to watch their many kids while they're out partaying or whatever.
Meanwhile...
John has already gotten the contact info for this person he's supposed to be meeting with tonight. Her name is Mnar and she lives a few kilometers away from John's Haven.
It's already 9 PM, and the Assamite is getting ready to leave. He takes a hot shower and changes into some proper clothes (he was out for a jog). He's wearing a dark jacket, denims, and loafers.
The man fixes his hair and heads off. He checks the route on his phone and heads out, walking briskly down the busy streets. The city is alive at this time of night. Streetlights bathe the streets in their orange glow.
Gaggles of warm bodies rush past him. He walks with his eyes forward. There are all kinds of people on these streets. A few performers sing some Arabic pop songs whilst others clap and dance to the beats.
There are a few street vendors selling a variety of different food items. They have a whole range of cuisine, from Indian to Chinese to Vietnamese. A few food trucks dot the streets, offering up tasty scran to the nightlife crowds.
John keeps his eyes peeled. He's aware that his enemies know his name and how he looks. He keeps his head low and walks fast, but not too fast, of course.
As he's walking, he passes by a group of baggy-eyed immigrant workers wearing hi-vis vests. They're going about their business, doing whatever they can to survive in this unforgiving city.
These workers are some of the most vulnerable people in this city, and the Emirati authorities (amongst others) are very good at taking advantage of them. John can't help but feel pity for them.
After a while of brisk walking, the Assamite spots a woman sitting by the curb and she's playing with a small child. She coos to the child and speaks to him in Arabic.
The child sees John and gasps softly. He points his trembling finger at the vampire and starts crying. The woman, surprised, stands up and clutches her child.
John, startled, asks, "Whoa, hey...you OK?"
She says in a shaky voice, "Yes--yes."
The child cries loudly and kicks and screams as his mother takes him away from the Assamite. John sighs and shakes his head.
He continues walking. The hustle and bustle of the city fill his ears, and the hot wind gently blows across his face.
His thoughts go back to Abdullah. That video of the Blood Sorcerer being obliterated by the shining sun still haunts his mind. He's reminded of his own past and his many regrets, but he can't afford to wallow in those emotions now.
The Assamite keeps on going until he reaches a residential area. Apartment buildings climb the sky, and they look rather cozy and inviting. He sees a lot of families around here, pushing strollers, sitting on the astroturf and chilling, or chatting as they're enjoying their evening meal.
It's a seemingly nice atmosphere, all in all.
Eventually, he finds himself in front of a 4-story service apartment building. It's a nice place. Cars are parked on the ground floor, there's a humming generator nearby, and some of the windows are well-lit.
A watchman is sitting on a scuffed plastic chair. He looks at John from head to toe and asks, "Name?"
The Assamite nods and takes a good look around, "Mnar? Is she here?"
"Name?"
"John."
The watchman vaguely gestures, "4th floor. Apartment A40. Elevator not working, use stairs."
John curtly nods, "Thanks."
"Hmm."
As John is climbing up the stairs, he takes a look around the place- beige walls, white tiled flooring, and about a dozen potted plants scattered here and there. No wear and tear, no marks or any kinds of graffiti.
A few couples sit on the benches, enjoying each other's company. A few kids are playing a card game. John's legs quickly carry him up the flights of stairs. He's eager to meet with this Mnar person, but he's also somewhat afraid of what she might be like.
He reaches the 4th floor and spots apartment A40. It's near the end of the bright hallway. John checks his clothes and squares his shoulders. He takes a deep breath, and walks to the door labeled "A40" in golden letters.
He hears some faint, hurried footsteps and a muffled voice from another apartment. He rings the doorbell and waits.
No answer.
The Assamite bites his lower lip and nervously looks around. He rings the doorbell again, but no answer. John waits a few seconds, rings it again, and then waits.
He then knocks on the door. Nothing.
The Assamite taps his foot and grunts faintly, "What the hell is going on? Where is she?"
He knocks and calls out, "I'm here to see a Mnar!"
The door slowly opens, and someone peeks out. She's wearing a dress and a headscarf. The woman's skin is pale, and her chocolate brown eyes are darting back and forth.
She asks, "Yes?"
"Mnar? We have a lot to talk about."
Mnar unchains the door, and she ushers John in. He walks into her Haven.
John gets a good look at his fellow Assamite. She's in her late-30s and very pale. Her face is round and full. She's got a faint scar on her chin and a beauty spot near her right cheek.
She's wearing some lip gloss and some mascara. She's got some bags under her eyes.
Mnar's Haven is a rather nice place. It's a bit stuffy, and the air is a bit musty, but it's comfortable and looks to be well-furnished. There are a TON of books scattered about, piled on top of each other. Some incense sticks are burning.
The lighting is dim and there's a haze in the air.
Mnar regards her fellow Banu Haqim with narrowed eyes. She sees him looking all around her Haven.
John presses his lips into a thin line and remarks, "It's a nice place you got here, Mnar."
"Yes," Mnar says as she continues to watch John like a hawk, studying and gauging his every move.
"We should talk," John says with a slight nod.
The woman raises a brow, "Indeed. We must. This way," she ushers him to a room in the back.
She goes in, and John follows after her. It's her bedroom. She has a queen-size bed, a desk, an office chair, a radio, and some books on the floor. Some tomes are scattered on her giant oak desk as well.
There are pens and other writing implements on the table. The air smells of dust and mustiness. It's clear that this room is where Mnar spends a majority of her time.
John glances around, and Mnar watches him take it all in. He sees that she's in the middle of...translating (by hand) an old-looking book into Arabic. She was in the middle of doing so when he popped in.
She goes over and closes the book, placing a piece of cloth over the pages. John clears his throat and tries to find a seat amidst all this scholarly clutter. Mnar's expression is blank, and her eyes are emotionless as she watches John nervously look around for somewhere to sit.
She dryly gestures to the bed while she sits in her desk chair.
The Assamite smiles and thanks her. He plops himself down on her bed and winces at how hard the mattress feels against his ass. He crosses his legs, and Mnar watches him do that.
"So," John begins, "you um...already know why I'm here and who I am, right?"
Mnar blandly says, "Tell me in your own words." She folds her hands on her lap and cocks her head just a tad.
"I'm your new Primogen."
Mnar has no exaggerated reaction to that information; she keeps her composure and stares blankly at John.
John sighs softly and continues, "Last night, I uh...took 'power' from Vizier Mohammed Khan. I challenged him for this position, and he easily gave it up without so much as a fuss. I wasn't expecting him to go down that...easily, I guess."
Mnar's expression remains passive and she's quiet.
John takes this as his cue to continue, "He's a real piece of work, y'know. Yeah."
Mnar queries, "Why did you do what you did, Mr. Suarez?"
John's face tics and he forces a mild chuckle, "Ah, you know my name, huh? Well, I did it because we need people, we need help, to get rid of the SI in this Domain. Our current numbers just weren't enough, and we've already lost quite a few."
"I have heard. I am sorry for your losses. They were of our Blood as well."
"Mm-hmm. They sure were. With the Vizier out of the way, I can now take on his duties and hopefully rally the rest of our Clan to come to our cause. I mean, I'm not asking any of you to take a pledge to the Blade of Haqim or anything like that, but you can at least try to make yourself more useful to us in this fight- we can't do it by ourselves."
Mnar's eyes are sharp, and they're focused on John.
John licks his lips and continues, "I--I mean, we tried doing it with who we had, but these Zionist thugs have a helluva lot more firepower and technological prowess than we expected. If we can't bring about a change, then what IS the point in doing any of this? What's the point in any of this, right, Mnar?"
John's expression grows dark, "I wanna Judge them and I wanna Judge them all. I take it you're aware of the Blade of Haqim. I don't know if we have time for a history--"
Mnar holds up her hand and plainly says, "I am aware of the Blade of Haqim, Mr. Suarez. I know much about their teachings, their founding members, their deeds, and their intentions. I have been researching their history for a long time now."
John blinks and incredulously asks, "Whoa, really? How do you know about all of that?"
Mnar gets up and goes to retrieve a book from a large cupboard. It's an old-looking book, quite thick. It's a yellowish-mustard color and it's bound with a faded brown leather.
She wordlessly hands the book to John and motions for him to open it. He warily does so, feeling the roughness of the thick pages as he turns them. The book's cover is in English and reads: "THE BOOK OF THE BLADE".
The Assamite looks at Mnar and asks, "What--what is this?"
Mnar answers, "Something I have been working on for decades now. I believe to be a comprehensive and objective history of the Blade of Haqim, from its founding shortly after the 1948 Nakba. It is the story of their struggles against the Hebrew state amongst other things."
John nods along, "OK, wow. That's something, I guess? You said you've been on this for decades? The Blade, from my understanding, doesn't write stuff down or give interviews, so how'd you manage to write all this stuff, huh?"
"I am very good at what I do, Mr. Suarez. I have my ways."
"Hmm, I see. And you don't think that writing this stuff down is a breach of the Masquerade? If anyone were to get ahold of this, it'd be the end of not just the Blade but all of Kindred Society."
Mnar faintly chuckles, "Such hyperbole remarks do not suit you, John. I have done my research and made sure that none of my writings will ever fall into the hands of the uninitiated or unenlightened. I am very thorough and quite meticulous; you have nothing to worry about."
John's eyebrows shoot up momentarily, and he goes through the book some more. He notices a list of names of some of the founders of the Blade of Haqim- there's Fatima Ibn Rashid (his Sire), the Mubarak brothers (Salim and Malik), and Dr. George Fateh (John's mentor and friend).
There are a few other names, some of which have a huge red X right next to them, and others have question marks and illegible scribbling.
John points to some of the names and asks, "Do you know who these people are?"
"Of course I do. They are the founders of the Blade of Haqim. Why?"
John offers, "Fatima, she's my Sire. I know Dr. George as well. He mentored me."
Mnar nods and purses her lips, "I see." She gets up and produces what looks like written correspondence between herself and Dr. George. John gasps in surprise, and Mnar motions for him to read the letter out loud.
It was sent a few nights back and the postal code indicates that it came from Magnolia City, USA! The old man's still back there, huh?
John looks over the letter, clears his throat, and reads it, "My dear, esteemed Mnar. Our correspondence has been quite pleasurable. Your questions regarding the nature of the Blade are most thoughtful and insightful. However, the answer to your last query is that the Blade's existence is an extension of the Banu Haqim's mission and purpose."
John pauses and reads on: "What greater injustice is there in the contemporary world than the injustice faced by the Palestinian people? For decades, my people have suffered under the boot of Zionist depravity- shameless, cowardly, and heinous atrocities against the poor, the displaced, the orphaned, the weak. The very concept of Humanity itself is being destroyed and eroded by these evildoers. The world should be appalled!"
John nods along and sniffs, getting emotional when reading the words of the man who taught him so much, "We will not rest until we have Judged the unjust- that is the mandate of the Blade. Of course, there is also the issue of the False Assamites- the Bnei HaShem- but we have already discussed that in our other letters."
John sighs and keeps reading, "Please, continue to study the subject, and the answers will reveal themselves, I assure you. I also look forward to your next letter. Until then, I will be unavailable for a while. I have something urgent that I have to see to. It concerns our mandate. I look forward to hearing from you again. Yours truly, Doctor George Fateh."
John folds the letter and sharply exhales, eyes slightly wide. Mnar has a calm and composed expression as she watches the man before her.
John shakes his head and cracks a small smile, "Ah, so the old man's still in Magnolia City, huh? Well, good for him. He liked that place a lot, y'know."
Mnar nods a little, "Yes, he speaks highly of that city. Not as high as he speaks of you, though, Mr. Suarez."
The Assamite's lips part slightly and he replies, "Oh, really? What did he have to uh...uh...say about me?"
Mnar hands him a thick stack of folded letters, "I have already made the necessary copies. Take it and read through them in your own time. Some things about you are not flattering, but he says that you changed since your misdeeds. He hopes that such is the case."
John's expression tightens and he lowers his head while he's thumbing through the letters, "I--I see."
He then asks, "In your next letter, you think you could say 'hi' on my behalf, y'know let the old man know that I'm doing well, fighting the good fight, all of that?"
Mnar stolidly says, "I will see what I can do."
John politely thanks her, "Thanks. So, you seem to know a bit about me. If we're gonna be working together, I'd like to know a bit about you. I mean, it's only fair, right?"
Mnar nods, "You are right, Mr. Suarez. It is fair. Very well, then...I hail from what is now known as the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. I was initially Embraced by an Antitribu, do not ask when. My contact with my Sire is limited and scholarly in nature."
She stops to let him take it all in, and John remarks, "Oof. Antitribu, huh? That's Sabbat, right--"
Mnar holds up her hand and states, "Whatever you might think of the Sabbat, Mr. Suarez, they are not necessarily the monsters that the Camarilla paints them as. Yes, there are some who are given over to their Beasts, but that is true of all the Sects."
"I see. But you're like...totally 'in' with the Camarilla, right?"
Mnar replies, "My allegiance is to knowledge and the dissemination of it to our people. The Eternal Struggle of the Sects means very little to me or my extensive research. I have no stake or interest in it, unless it pertains to my scholarly endeavors."
John blinks and scratches his head, "OK, OK. So, you're not with the Sabbat or the Camarilla. What about the Anarchs?"
Mnar scoffs lightly, "Tch. Their presence in these lands is insignificant. I know that they view the Blade of Haqim with hostility...as does the Ashirra."
She turns her head aside and her lips part, but no words come out. She shakes her head and dismisses whatever she was about to say. John raises a brow but doesn't press her on it.
John inquires, his tone steady, delicate, and calm, "So, why'd you move to the UAE, then?"
"Because there was simply no other choice. The Ashirra controls all of Saudi Arabia with a fist of iron. They were paranoid and fearful that some of the younger Kindred were straying away from their teachings, so they began a purge. I--we had no choice but to flee."
John nods along, "That's terrible. I'm sorry to hear that." He then beckons for her to go on.
So, the Sultan (Ashirra equivalent of Camarilla Prince or Sabbat Archbishop or Anarch Baron) gave the orders to purge certain Kindred from the KSA. The Ashirra have been routinely doing this for centuries now- any Kindred who don't follow their strict laws are considered apostates and are hunted down without mercy.
Through no fault of her own (she didn't even know what she did!), Mnar was caught up in some power plays and political maneuvering between the Sultan and his hangers-on. Those in her intellectual circle were accused of being spies and heretics.
A purge was initiated, and she caught wind of it, having no other choice but to flee the country. She was stuffed in a coffin bound for the UAE and could only take a few of her things with her.
As she's narrating all of this, not a single tear of blood comes out of her eyes. Her voice is steady and monotone. It's clear that she's gone through a lot.
John feels some pity for her, "Damn, I'm so sorry."
"You have nothing to be sorry for. In time, I was able to reestablish things here in the UAE. Others, I am told, fled to America or Ireland or France. Some stayed behind and went into hiding."
John sighs and shakes his head, "Wow. You keep in touch with any of 'em?"
"It is risky to do so. The Sultan is not a forgiving man- he is a Tzimisce- and they do not forget so easily. I have tried to make contact with some of my friends and associates, but it is difficult. I do not wish to endanger them...and they feel the same."
John nods along, "Yeah, I get that."
Mnar grimly points out, "They decapitated my friends, burned my Haven to the ground, and threw all my writings, research notes, and books into a bonfire. All because of rumors and a thirst for power and wealth."
She pauses and takes a deep breath, "If only their lust for material wealth matched their hunger for knowledge, but what has happened has happened. It is in the past, and I cannot change it. I can only record it- as a warning maybe- for future generations."
John quietly says, "I'm sorry, Mnar. I really am."
He leans forward and rests his elbows on his knees, "But hey, we--we can make things better here, right? There are some real bad people here in the UAE and they need to be stopped. I take it you know about the Marjan Tower bombing?"
"Yes. The doing of a military-intelligence entity associated with the Hebrew state. They were responsible for the deaths and destructions of countless innocent Kindred and mortals. It was a horrific tragedy. I felt the ground vibrating under me when that building fell."
John bitterly grimaces, "Yeah, it sure was. A whole lotta Caitiff were in there, and from where I'm standing, a whole lotta people don't seem to care about that."
Mnar indifferently points out, "The Caitiff are considered bastards and mistakes among our kind. Back in Saudi Arabia, the Caitiff were captured and enthralled to serve the higher portions of the Ashirra. Some were even fed to the Unbirthed."
John frowns, "The what, now?"
Mnar goes on to explain, "The Unbirthed, sometimes known as Moon-Flowers. Another 'innovation' of the Sabbat. They are birthed from human corpses infused with the sacrificed Vitae of a Thin-Blooded or Fledgling Kindred."
John grimaces in disgust, "Jesus Christ."
Undeterred, she goes on, "They are tall, pale, and skinless humanoid husks buried in mass graves for years on end, perhaps longer. A Necronomist then proceeds to 'feed' these ravenous, Wight-like creatures with the Vitae of the sacrificed Kindred, and they emerge from their graves, having grown stronger and more powerful."
John's expression is one of shock and horror. He stares at Mnar, speechless.
"In time, they dig themselves out of their mass graves, mad with Hunger. The Sabbat might have come up with the ideas, but the Ashirra perfected them over the years. They now serve as a deterrent to those who would dare run afoul of the Sultan."
John shakes his head and remarks, "Wow. That's...that's some crazy shit right there."
Mnar nods, "It is what it is. I left Saudi Arabia because I wanted to keep my head. The Unbirthed are no more or no less monstrous than the deeds of the Camarilla and the Anarchs- they are not as pristine and proper as they like to think themselves to be."
John slowly nods, "I guess so. I mean, I've heard some pretty messed up stuff about the Camarilla and the Anarchs, too. But Al-Kushraf is a Camarilla Domain and well, y'know..." he lets that hang in the air.
Mnar plainly nods along, "Hm, yes. Regardless, I am a scholar of our kind- the good, the bad, and what some might have trouble comprehending. I see it as my just duty to record all of this and present it to those who have eyes to see and ears to hear. That is why I do what I do, Mr. Suarez."
John asks, "And you're not worried about any of your old Ashirra pals coming after you here in the UAE?"
"The majority of them are Tzimisce- highly territorial and sedentary Cainites- they will not leave their wealth and power even if it were to be consumed in an inferno tomorrow night; they would sooner perish with it than part with it."
John nods along, "I see. Well, that's the Tzimisce for ya, huh?"
"It is unwise to paint in broad strokes. Did you know that there are many Tzimisce Bedouins? They roam the deserts and are quite nomadic. They do not worship wealth and power in the same way as their sedentary counterparts."
John raises his brows and comments, "Huh. Interesting. This whole Kindred thing, y'know, it feels like there's a whole world out there, waiting to be discovered, poked open, studied, and understood. It's kinda amazing, I guess."
Mnar smiles a little and notes, "It is a world, John. A world of darkness. I am merely its humble student."
John smiles back, "Mm-hmm. It sure is- vampires, werewolves, ghosts, and other stuff that goes bump in the night. I take it your area of expertise is limited to the Kindred alone?"
Mnar answers, "My research might intersect with matters pertaining to the Garou Nation or the Awakened Mages. Sometimes, it even extends into spheres beyond my comprehension. Wraiths and demons, for example."
John's eyes widen slightly, "Oh, really? You study ALL of those, too?"
"Not necessarily, my focus is on Kindred Society. There is so much to learn and discover within that 1 field alone. The Masquerade be damned, the Eternal Struggle be damned, I want to know everything there is to know about Caine's Childer and the various ways in which they organize themselves on these nights."
John smiles a little and nods, "That's cool. Not many people get to have access to the kind of knowledge um...sloshing around in that head of yours, haha. Anyway, we need to talk about something really important."
Mnar lifts her chin slightly, "We do. You are an outsider who has seized the power of the Primogen from Vizier Mohammed Khan. In truth, he was a much-despised figure in this Domain and did not adequately represent the interests of our Clan in the Court."
"Heh, no surprise there. He's a spineless asshole who stands for nothing."
Mnar concurs with a firm nod, "Those who stand for nothing will fall for everything. That was abundantly true for Mr. Khan. He is merely a puppet for those in greater power within the Domain- particularly the Ministry and that High Priest of theirs, the man known as Seth Steale."
John snorts, "I'm not surprised. But right now, Seth seems determined to get rid of the SI and I say we put aside our differences and work together to drive the SI outta here."
Mnar gives him a pointed look and asks, "And what happens after that, Mr. Suarez? After the Zionists have been driven off or slaughtered like the dogs that they are? What then, hmm? Do you intend to continue being our Primogen?"
John's lips part and he pauses. He didn't think about that. He's been so focused on the present and the immediate threat that he forgot to consider what would happen afterwards, long after the dust has settled. The long term is not really something he's too bothered with right now.
"I am waiting for an answer..."
John's shoulders slump and he sighs, "I agreed to hand the reins back to Mohammed. I have no intentions of leading or representing our Clan after the SI's been swept up and dealt with."
Mnar is not too impressed by that. She narrows an eye, "I see. So, you wish to revert to the way things were before you and your Blade allies fled from Dubai and arrived here?"
John shrugs, "It sucks, I know, but I can't really think that far ahead, Mnar. I'm just not that kinda guy."
Mnar prods, "What happens AFTER that, hmm? Know that, should we succeed, there will be something much more than a mere power vacuum created in this Domain. There will be a struggle for control over the Domain. The Ministry will likely be involved. It will be chaos, of that I am certain."
John scratches his chin, "Hmm. Yeah, you might have a point there, Mnar. There's neither Prince nor Sheriff and the Ministry seems to have their finger in every pie around here."
He then frowns and shakes his head, "But...but I don't want to think about all that crazy Court and Council stuff right now. There's a job that needs doing, and we're the ones to do it."
"Do you not feel that you are being used?"
Oh, she's sharp!
John side-eyes her, "Maybe. I guess. Still, though, the other Clans are not exactly fighters. The Ventrue and the Toreador don't seem too keen to lend a helping hand. The Nosferatu are good with computers and tech stuff, but they wouldn't last in a fight against these Israeli bastards. The Malks got their own thing going on."
"Hmm. And the Caitiff are gone- destroyed or fled. The Setites, however..."
"Hmph. Yeah, Seth's pretty vague on the kind of support he's offering. He said he'd foot the bill for all of this, but I dunno, Mnar. Something about him...it feels like he's got his own agenda in mind."
Mnar dryly comments, "Of course, he does. 1 of the many monikers for the Ministry is the 'Clan of Lies'. Many are Corrupters and Tempters who view themselves as Liberators. I am simply relaying to you facts, John. It is not a value judgment of any kind on the Clan as a whole."
John nods, "Yeah, yeah, sure. Impartial, objective, all that good stuff. I'm familiar with that...sorta."
Mnar mentions, "I know of your sordid past, Mr. Suarez. I will refrain from commenting further. Come, now, we will go in my car. I will need a few minutes to get ready and see to some other matters. I was in the middle of translating a Noddist tome when you arrived at my doorstep."
John raises his brow, "A Noddist tome? I'm sorry for interrupting; that sounds important."
Mnar gets up and hands him a heavy Noddist text written (seemingly) in ye olde English. It's quite archaic and John feels a headache just looking at it. How Mnar translates something like this into Arabic is quite an impressive feat!
She looks at him with a composed gaze, "I myself do not necessarily agree with all that is in this Noddist tome. Much of it is said to be written by those of Baali Bloodline, but I see it as my duty as a scholar to faithfully and accurately translate this text, even if I have many reservations about its content."
She points to a random page and adds, "I even refrain from noting down my opinions in the margins. I leave that space empty, as it should be. This is what I do, Mr. Suarez- I seek out and find knowledge, no matter how unpleasant or unpalatable it might be. It is my calling as a Child of Haqim."
John smiles at her and nods approvingly, "That's cool. That kind of...real objectivity is rare these nights. A lotta folk seem to treat the truth and facts like uh...Play-Doh. It's sad, really."
He then gestures towards the incomplete book and adds, "But, hey, this is great. I can't even understand it, haha. I'm sure you're doing a fine job of translating it and I hope that someone out there can read it in and...be a better person helping to bring about a better world, I guess."
Mnar nods a little, "Ideally, yes."
"So, what's this book about, anyway?"
Mnar cracks a small smile that doesn't quite reach up to her eyes, "It is a writing from Baali Noddists, or those said to be affiliated with that Bloodline. It would take me hours to explain this to you- I mean no offense to your intellectual capabilities, but you simply lack the proper historical context."
John holds up his hand, "None taken. I get it; I'm not exactly the smartest guy around. Hmm, yeah. I'll wait outside while you get dressed." He gets up and walks towards the door.
Mnar thanks him for his understanding and locks the door. It shuts with a clicking sound and John looks around her living room area- he sees a ton of incunabula (pre-1501 printed books) stacked on top of each other, there are candles with half-burnt wicks on every surface, and there are maps open all over the place.
John sees a stack of papers and runs his fingers over the text on the top sheet. It's a handwritten Arabic text that he can't read. He sees a few expensive-looking fountain pens lying around next to a desk with a lamp on it. There are stacks of A4 paper, file folders, and a box of trinkets nearby.
He sees some framed photos of Mnar posing with some people. Her expression is fairly neutral. She's wearing a hijab and some emerald-green kaftans in these photos.
There's an old analogue clock on the wall above the sofa and a couple of random abstract paintings on the wall.
All in all, a pretty scholarly pad for a scholarly Assamite! John patiently waits and Mnar emerges from her bedroom, looking a bit more presentable. She's wearing the same thing she was wearing, but she's applied some foundation and powder to her face.
John politely smiles and says, "You look nice."
Mnar faintly chuckles, but it's barely audible and quite quick, "A Toreador in this Domain once told me that being a walking corpse is not an excuse to look like one. I agreed with them, John. They suggest for me makeup that would make my skin appear less pale and sallow."
Her purse is slung over her shoulder, and she gestures for John to follow her. She grabs her car keys from a drawer, "We will take my car, John. It is time you met the rest of those you will be fighting alongside with."
John agrees with a nod and says, "Yeah, OK. Lead the way, Mnar."
 She leads him outside to her car and opens the driver's seat. John sits in the passenger seat next to her. Mnar's car is a stick shift Honda Civic, and it smells like it's just been cleaned recently. It smells sweet on the inside, and the leather seats are pristine.
They drive off, the windows are rolled down, and the cold night wind is blowing. John looks at the gearshift and remarks, "I'm more of an automatic guy myself, y'know? Manual is kinda tricky for me."
Mnar smiles a little and notes, "If I can learn all about the Convention of Thorns, then I most certainly can learn how to drive this machine."
John snickers, "Wow, you really are quite something, Mnar. Heh."
After a few minutes of silence on the dark and wide stretches of city road, Mnar asks, "Do you have any Childer, John?"
John tells her, "Yep. Just 1. Her name's Svetlana Bobrov. I Embraced her about 5 years ago. It was an emergency Embrace. Her body was flung out of the Al-Jamal Residential Tower when it exploded, and she was lying there, dying and gasping for breath, all bloodied over. I...I had to Embrace her."
He sighs, "It--it was unauthorized, but Prince Angela understood. Sheriff Gallagher, however, wanted to cut both our heads off. He wanted to end us, but Prince Angela stepped in and made sure that we both got off easy."
"I see. So, she's an Avetrol Childe, then. One who is permitted to exist despite violating the Tradition of Progeny."
John mumbles, "Don't talk about her like that- she's been through a lot. She's suffered a lot. She's a good woman. I trained her myself. Sheriff Gallagher eventually stepped down and left Dubai after he didn't get to bring a big sword down on me and Svetlana's necks. I dunno what happened after he came here and I--I frankly don't care."
Mnar flips the indicator and smoothly turns a corner, "Hm, neither do I. I do not involve myself in such matters, but I was told that he is quite a violent man."
John looks at her and asks, "Yep. No arguing with you there. He's a few screws loose and a massive asshole. Enough about him, so, how about you? Any Childer?"
Mnar blandly answers, "No. I do not have any Childer of my own. I have yet to find the right one who fits my criteria. In a city such as this, that is no easy task, Mr. Suarez. This city is overrun with those who chase after themselves or power for power's sake."
John remarks, "That's pretty harsh. Not that I disagree. I--I mean, this place, it's just like Dubai in every way. It's so...garish yet meaningless. Lively yet hollow and superficial. Full yet empty at the same time."
Mnar dryly adds, "Al-Kushraf is a city built on the backs of foreign slaves, filled to the brim with thieves and liars. It is not a pleasant place, but we try our best to manage and hold onto some semblance of what we call Humanity."
She glances at John and clarifies, "That does not necessarily mean that I agree with the way in which the Kindred of this Domain behave and interact with each other. We are, at our core, Beasts, Mr. Suarez. You are familiar with the Riddle of our existence, are you not?"
John nods and hums, "A Beast I am, lest a Beast I become."
Mnar gives a variation of that, "Monsters we are lest monsters we become. It is a ceaseless struggle between giving the Beast what it wants- blood- and knowing when enough is enough."
John looks out the window, the city going by in a slow blur, "Mmm-hmm. It's a struggle that we all gotta contend and cope with. I know I've felt like biting into everyone near me and--and sucking them dry. I've felt that urge before. I've felt it in the back of my head like an angry hornet just...waiting for its chance to come out and sting."
Mnar eases her foot off the accelerator and switches gears with a little more force than usual, "As have I, John. Your own Dr. George advised me to seek out ways to keep in touch with my Humanity- he suggested hobbies, taking a lover, and so on. I politely refused the last one. I cannot afford to get too close to anyone in this Domain."
She adds, "Besides, such things do not interest me anyway."
John wistfully chuckles, "Yep, that sounds like Dr. George alright! He's a good guy, Mnar. He means a lot to me. Make sure you mention me and Svetlana in your next letter to him. I'm sure he--he'd be happy to know that the Blade of Haqim is still around, fighting the good fight and all that."
Mnar comments, "I shall do that."
The rest of the drive is spent chatting about various Clan-related matters. John is brought up-to-speed on the way the non-Blade Assamites operate here in Al-Kushraf. Mnar tells him that most of them here are either blue-collar workers or in the informal sector (i.e. bordering on being slaves).
John winces and sucks some air through his teeth, "Sheesh. I know the human rights situation is dismal here in the UAE, but whoa, that's even worse than I thought it was!"
Mnar agrees with a nod, "Yes, I have even come across several Kindred who were not Embraced willingly. They were mostly Caitiff Embraced by some rich and powerful Sheikhs with connections beyond the boundaries of this Domain. Or so I am told."
She reminds him, "Once again, I do not willingly involve myself in such matters unless it pertains to my studies and research. In my time here, steering clear of the excesses of the Kindred in this Domain has ensured that my head remains where it is- attached firmly to my body."
She adds, "You will meet some of our fellow Judges tonight at the places I am taking you to. I want to see their reactions to...their new Primogen."
John rubs the back of his neck, "Hmm, OK. Ya sure they won't be too salty about me being in charge of them?"
Mnar gives him a pointed look and remarks, "No, they won't. Like I said, Vizier Khan was despised by nearly all of his fellow Assassins. Even his Sire, now missing, could not stand him."
"What happened to his Sire?"
"I do not know."
"Hm, fair enough."
"I have made arrangements for you to meet with those who will be working closely with you to drive the SI off. We will discuss plans and go over the logistics of your new role."
John puts his hand out the window and the hot breeze blows through his fingers as the car speeds through the night, "I really appreciate all the help. I could use as much of it as I can right now."
Mnar simply nods at him and drives on like a pro. The roads are (mostly) clear and her driving is very smooth and efficient.
40-ish minutes later...
John finds out a lot of things about his fellow Assamite- she has some sympathies for the Sabbat, she's dedicated to her scholarly endeavors, and that's she's an asexual aromantic (ace aroma).
On the last part, Mnar mirthlessly chuckles, "I have never, in life and in Unlife, had such feelings for...touching, romance, making love, or any of that. My studies of Kindred Society are my Unlife, John. I do not wish for anything else to...complicate that."
She brings her car to a stop and jerks her chin over to a gaggle of people standing around a wide courtyard, just away from the streetlamps.
They're wearing suits and seem to be...out of place amidst the other passersby who are dressed more casually. It's not like there are many people around this area, though- it's a quiet little pocket of the city with a few street vendors selling shawarma and hot falafel sandwiches.
There are a few mid-rises dotted about the area- a residential district with little traffic going through. It's all residential here, and it seems fairly peaceful, if a bit sleepy.
The streets are mostly clean, and there are some swaying palm trees and small gardens. The streetlamps are well-lit and evenly spaced.
John looks at where Mnar pointed to, "What's up with them? They seem...off."
"Yes. They are. And why is that?"
"Um...they don't seem like SI. Um--"
Mnar sighs, "They are of the Ministry, Mr. Suarez. They closely watch and monitor the other Kindred around here. Especially those who are not of the Followers of Set."
John incredulously asks, "What?! W--who do they even report to, then? This city's got neither Prince nor Sheriff! It doesn't even make any sense!"
The Assamite scholar flatly answers, "To the man you and I both know as Seth Steale- the High Priest of Al-Kushraf. They are his...lackeys, so to speak. His eyes and ears in this Domain."
John is dumbfounded and just shakes his head. He gets out of the car, "Well, no time like the present, Mnar. Let's get this show on the road." She nods and follows after him, keys jangling.
Mnar struggles to keep pace with John, who's brisk walk is making her huff. She keeps a steady expression on her face as John walks past the 4 Setite spies.
He avoids eye contact and keeps walking straight towards the door of an apartment with peeling paint. He's led inside by Mnar and she brings him into what appears to be a living room area.
There are some couches, a couple of chairs, and some dimly lit lamps. Mnar seems to be familiar with this place.
John snickers, "Nice place. Who are we even supposed to be meeting?"
The speedy Assamite takes a good look around and notices that this ground floor home has things in it that strongly imply a wheelchair user lives here. There are support rails on the walls and near the doors.
It seems that someone lives here with a mobility impairment. How curious.
Mnar searches around and mutters something to herself in a different dialect of Arabic. Looking a little flustered, she pulls out her phone and calls someone.
"Hmph. Yes. OK." She hangs up and ushers John out of the living room. A couple of minutes later, they're back on the road again. Those 4 Setite spies are...nowhere to be seen.
John asks, "So--so, they all report right back to Seth?"
Mnar shifts gears and keeps focused on the road ahead, "That is what I said, yes. A man like him did not amass power through honest means. He has an agenda. The problem is figuring out what that agenda is."
She pauses, "For now, though, I will take you to your fellow Banu Haqim, John. We are on our way to meet someone who is...interesting. I will let you see for yourself."
"Cool."
The intended destination is some kind of a bazaar area that's not too far off from that apartment. It's bustling with a crowd of people. Bright lights emanate from various small shops, hookah smoke wafts from a few corners, and the smell of street food wafts through the air.
The car ride is fairly quiet with Mnar mostly keeping to herself and John being busy with his phone.
Mnar parks her car to the side and tells John to stay close to her. The 2 of them walk to a small, unassuming shop wedged deep at the end of this long stretch of various shops and stalls.
John reads the sign above the door, "Baba's Carpets?" he looks at Mnar with a quizzical expression.
Mnar replies, "Yes. What is wrong?"
John faintly chuckles and walks inside. The air is thick and heavy. There are lots of rolled up carpets in this place- it's an actual carpet shop. There are quite a few customers milling about and chatting with each other.
They seem to be browsing the various rugs and carpets on display here.
Mnar points to a rusty door behind the glass counter with some cash registers on it. She tells John to come with her through that door and he does so. It leads down to some stairs, and they follow those down.
It opens to a large and dark room with a table in the middle.
A young man in a manual wheelchair is seated at this table with some cards in front of him. He's surrounded by empty wooden chairs.
The young man in question appears to be in his 20s, his curly hair is cropped short, and he has light brown skin. He's wearing a loose beige thawb.
His wheelchair is manual and quite worn out- there are patches on the seat cushion.
Mnar makes the necessary introductions, "This is Mahmoud. He is of our Blood as well. Mahmoud, this is our new Primogen- John Suarez."
Mahmoud pushes his wheelchair forward and extends his cold hand as he looks up at John, "As-salamu alaykum (AR: Peace be upon you). We have been looking forward to meeting with you, habibi."
John smiles back, "Yo. What's up. Um...uh...Mnar?"
Mnar folds her arms and raises her chin, "Yes?"
"Mind if I talk to you, privately, for a minute?"
"Of course."
Mahmoud looks up at John with a certain sparkle in his dead eyes. He smiles warmly and nods. He wheels himself away from his fellow Assamite and goes back to his cards.
John whispers to Mnar, "I don't mean to sound like an ass or anything, but he's...in a wheelchair. I dunno how he's gonna be capable of fighting against those SI thugs. They'll--"
Mnar quietly says, "The others still have use of their legs, John. Please, do not ask Mahmoud about how his...current predicament. And, yes, it is permanent."
"So, what are we here for?"
"Mahmoud! Do you have it for me?"
The wheelchair-bound Assamite lifts his finger and groans as he pushes himself forward. He opens a large drawer behind him and pulls out a box. He hands it to Mnar.
John looks at it and sees that it's an ornately decorated box with a lock on it. Mnar pulls out a small key and turns the lock. The box opens and John sees a bit of his reflection in the shiny blade of a gnarly looking scimitar.
Mnar carefully takes the blade out and slowly brandishes it around, nodding to herself and saying something or the other. John watches her do this as she examines the blade.
It has a slightly curved hilt, a double-edged blade, and a golden handle. It looks like it has recently been given some maintenance work.
Mnar looks at the blade with a look of reverence.
John remarks, "Cool blade! I myself got a katana. We could uh...maybe spar sometimes?"
"Perhaps."
Mahmoud speaks up, "So, habibi! You are of the Blade of Haqim, yes?" his accent is quite distinct.
John smiles at him, "Yep. That's right. We're here to take care of those Zionist shitheads who are terrorizing us all. Don't mind me asking, but how are you gonna help us in this? I hope that didn't come off as insensitive or anything, seeing--"
Mahmoud chuckles, "Haha. Oh, walla, it is no issue. I have heard worse. So, you are our Primogen now, yes? I want to know how you got rid of that useless donkey of a Vizier."
Mnar glares at Mahmoud and shakes her head, "Mahmoud, enough. Vizier Mohammed Khan might've been a man who stands for nothing, but calling him a donkey is...childish, even for you."
John holds his hand up, "Yeah. That's for another time, but he folded pretty quickly when I challenged him for the position of Primogen."
Mahmoud thoughtfully nods and cracks a cheeky smile, "I have the other thing you requested, Mnar. 1 minute, please." He begins pushing himself forward again, grunting.
Mnar sighs, "I apologize for him, John. I assure you that he means well."
"Yeah. No problem. He seems like a cool dude. Banu Haqim, just like you and I. Seems like an interesting guy. What's his story?"
Mnar wearily exhales and continues twirling her scimitar, "He tells me many variations of his 'story'. 1 time, he told me was from Morocco. Another time, he said Algeria."
"Ah."
"As for his Embrace, he gives me equally confusing accounts. I think that he mainly does it to...pull my leg, as you Westerners say. It is a little frustrating, since I am trying to write an account of those of our Clan in this Domain."
She adds, "I need to get more details from him. I did not expect him to be such an evasive man, but I have found ways to make him more cooperative."
"Um...like?"
Mnar holds up her scimitar, a barely noticeable smirk dancing on her lips, "Like this. It is my old sword, in my possession since I was a Fledgling. In his state, Mahmoud needs things to keep busy, so I gave it to him for maintenance and restoration."
John whistles, "Wow. That's some pretty intense history there."
"Yes. I have many such items that I have collected over the years. Mahmoud takes interest in some of them, and we work out a deal of some kind. He works on restoring them, and I...hopefully get to a coherent account of his past and how he came to be here."
"Ah. Gotcha."
Mahmoud returns, clutching a picture frame close to his chest. He has a large smile on his face when he turns it over. It's a painted portrait of Mnar.
The Assamite scholar is wearing a kaftan and a hijab. A hand is placed on her hip and she's looking down on something (or someone).
She takes the frame and examines it for a few seconds. She licks her lips and silently nods.
Mahmoud sighs and pats his legs, "It was from an admirer of hers back in Saudi Arabia. A Toreador scholar--"
Mnar holds up a stern finger and Mahmoud snickers, "Hahaha! Oh, oh, sorry."
Mnar glares at him for a moment, "That's...personal. I keep it only as a reminder, nothing else. Thank you for restoring it, Mahmoud."
Mahmoud bows slightly, "I do my best, Mnar. You know that I am reliable in such things."
"You are. I will see you later."
"As will I. So, John habibi..."
John presses his lips into a thin line, "Yep?"
Mahmoud rolls his wheelchair closer to him, "You and the Blade have been in this city, what, a few weeks now. Yes?"
"Yes, that's right. After the SI hit Dubai, we had no other choice but to flee here. Seth welcomed us, the Malkavians, and a few others, with open arms."
Mahmoud thoughtfully nods his head, his lower lip shifting from side to side as he listens, "We knew of your presence here, habibi. We, the Banu Haqim of this Domain, have been...waiting for you to come to us."
"Oh?"
Mnar puts her portrait aside, places her scimitar back into its box, and looks over at Mahmoud, "John is still new here. Keep that in mind. He does not fully know the extent of what is going on. He will learn, however."
Mahmoud nods, "Yes. Yes. I understand. Still, I cannot help but be excited by this! The arrival of a new Primogen is very exciting, don't you think?"
Mnar shrugs, "Eventually, after the Zionists have been driven off or slaughtered, your new friend wants to give back his position to Vizier Khan. Is that right, Mr. Suarez?"
"Uh...yeah. It's something I promised, but only because I wanted him to cooperate with me and--and allow me to come to you for support."
Mahmoud's expression sours and he throws his hands up in disbelief, "Ah! Alqumama (AR: rubbish)! I like this little American man and wish for him to continue as our Primogen after the dust, it settles."
He looks up at John with expectant eyes, "Right, John? Y--you will continue to--to be our Primogen, yes? You do not know how much I despise that donkey of a Vizier!"
Mnar sighs, "Mahmoud, let him talk. Please."
John clears his throat, "Well, like I said, it was a deal that I made with the Vizier. We just need help in fighting the SI. They're vicious, man. We need people, we need support, and we need all the help we can get. It's not just us, but--"
Mahmoud clicks his tongue, "Of course, habibi. You are new here, so you do not know who is on our side and who is not. Have you met any Nosferatu yet?"
"Yeah. They saved us by taking us down into their Warrens when the SI cornered us. I'll always be grateful for their hospitality towards us."
"I see. Hmm. So, you have been to the Nosferatu Warrens, then? Hmm."
John senses that Mahmoud wants to say more, so he plainly gestures for the wheelchair-bound man to go on.
Mahmoud's lips curve into an almost-smile. He nods and pats his legs again, "Did you notice anything odd while you were down there, habibi?"
"Apart from all the misshapen heads, pointy ears, hunched backs, boils, scars, and stuff...nope. What else was I supposed to notice?"
Mnar steps in, "That is because The Clan of the Hidden knew about your imminent arrival to this city EVEN BEFORE the Ministry got word of the attacks on Dubai."
John's face scrunches in confusion, "Huh? How?"
Mahmoud continues, "Yes, it is true, habibi. Those Crawlers have been watching you even before you and the rest of the fleeing Kindred set foot in Al-Kushraf."
Mr. Suarez is genuinely taken aback by this revelation. He stammers, "Wh--what? But...why? They--they've been spying on us?!"
Mahmoud sucks some air through his teeth, "They would not really call it 'spying,' habibi. Think of it more like a bucket under a leaking roof. The water merely trickles down into the bucket. It is not the bucket's fault that the water might be contaminated, no?"
What an oddly interesting analogy!
Mnar sighs, "He is right. The Clan of the Hidden knows many things that happen throughout this Domain and even beyond its borders. They have their own ways of acquiring information and passing it on."
Mahmoud points out, "Things of varying...quality trickle down until the bucket is full, then a new bucket takes its place. Does that make sense, habibi?"
John shakes his head, "You're saying that the Nosferatu have been keeping tabs on us and feeding that info to the Ministry?"
Mahmoud rubs his face with his palm, "Oh. Walla. No. The Nosferatu in this city keep to themselves, only sharing information and secrets when it can bring them some or the other benefit. As for the Ministry, they have their own...ways around this city."
John lifts his chin, "Seth Steale. What do you know about him?"
Mahmoud simply shrugs as way of response.
He gestures to the cards on the table and smiles, "Would you like to spare a few minutes for a humble game of cards with your fellow Assamite?"
John glances over at Mnar. She gives him a barely noticeable shake of the head. He clicks his tongue, "Not tonight, pal. We got other people to see."
Mahmoud's wide smile falters a little, but he understands the gravity of the situation, "Ah! It was worth an ask. Perhaps another night, yes?"
"Sure."
Mnar clears her throat, "We must go now. There are others to meet. What are you doing now, Mahmoud? There are some documents that I would like you to look over. There's also some more restoration work that I need you to carry out."
Mahmoud wheels himself back to the table, "There is a meeting at the Jameel Party Hall. It was organized by the families and friends of the victims of the Marjan Tower explosion. I want to be there to show my support."
John's interest in this event is piqued, "Oh, really? Is that far away from here? I wouldn't mind coming--after I meet up with whomever Mnar is gonna introduce me to, of course."
Mahmoud's expression brightens up, "Oh! Of course! Yes, I can get you on the list. Mnar will have to drive you over there, though."
Mnar shrugs, "It is fine with me."
Mahmoud begins shuffling his deck of cards and looks up at John and Mnar as they head out, "I will see you soon, habibi! I am sorry that I cannot fight, but I pray for victory over our enemies!"
John waves at him, "Thanks! See you there!"
On the way out, they spot an elevator in the corner of the dingy basement room. Mahmoud uses it to move himself (and some stuff) around.
The 2 of them walk up the stairs, leave Baba's Carpets, and go back to Mnar's car. She starts the engine, and John tells her that he's ready to go to wherever she wants next.
On the way to wherever, John asks, "So, the scimitar. I guess we can see you, besides us, fighting?"
"No. Well, maybe. That scimitar, if anything, was always more for shows or ceremonies. It has been sharpened, but I do not know of its efficacy in a combat situation."
"I see. Cool. I hope we get even with those Zionist maniacs soon. They've done enough damage, and it's time to make 'em pay for it."
"I do not disagree. As a matter of fact, you will find a lot of us have a very...dim view of the Hebrew state."
"Heh, yeah. It's a crazy fucking country. Seeing what they did- and are doing- to the Palestinians is just...it's insane. It's a bloodbath! Something's gotta give."
"Hmm. Yes. A correct assessment, Mr. Suarez."
During a traffic stop, Mnar reaches into the glove compartment and hands her fellow Assamite a few strange drawings.
It looks like some kind of hulking fleshy, monstrous mass with tentacles and other such nasties protruding out of its blob of a "body".
She points to it, "Have you seen anything like this around here? Do you know what it is?"
John examines the drawings closely, "Uh, no, I haven't. It looks fucking nasty! What the hell is this?!"
"It is supposed to be a drawing of a Vozhd. A creation primarily of the Tzimisce Clan."
John grimaces, "Oh. Yuck. How does it end up looking like...this?!"
The light turns green. Mnar shifts the gear, puts her foot on the gas pedal, and gets them going again, "A lot of bodies...melded together into a singular walking, biological weapon."
"Christ! OK. That's...that's horrible. Just...ew."
"The Vozhd are the primary reason why many Kindred fear the Tzimisce Clan so much. They can be controlled, but...things tend to go wrong."
"I get the feeling that you're speaking from experience."
Mnar's expression reflects some kind of dark memory. She nods and says nothing.
The rest of the drive is quiet with neither John nor Mnar saying anything for the time being. They meet up with a few colorful and interesting characters and are reassured of full support for when the time comes.
Mnar made the necessary introductions, and John explained the current situation. All in all, the non-Blade Assamites are absolutely ready to jump into the fray and crush the Zionist scum in these lands.
Good. They're eager, they're sincere, and they genuinely mean well. This fight can- perhaps- be won, after all.
(What happens after the dust settles, though?)
Much later...
Mnar drops off John at the Jameel Party Hall where Mahmoud had arranged to meet. The speedy Assamite thanks her for tonight, bids her farewell, and goes to the meeting hall.
The Jameel Party Hall is a fairly drab-looking structure in the middle of a busy street. The walls are painted white with a few windows in them, and there is an orange-and-white sign on the front of the building with English and Arabic writing on it.
John takes note of a few people milling about, talking amongst themselves. The floors are grimy and leave a lot to be desired, and the place feels a bit stuffy inside.
A few people turn their heads to look at John. Some of them whisper to each other while others just ignore him. A few more are walking out, so he assumes that the meeting is about to start.
Mahmoud waves and calls out, "John, over here! I have reserved a seat for you. Come! Come!"
John sees Mahmoud wheeling himself into 1 of the larger hallways. He follows behind, noting that there's a big banner on the wall with a picture of the Marjan Tower.
There are hearts, drawings, and little notes scribbled all around the photo of the destroyed tower.
As John walks down the hallway, he hears people crying. Many people are in tears as they're walking down the hallway or into the various rooms.
The lighting is bright and there's a projector that's been set up, displaying slideshows of the victims.
Some people are wearing shirts with the words "WE DEMAND ANSWERS" printed on them. Others are wearing shirts with the word "SHAME" printed on them.
The whole atmosphere is reserved yet tense. Sadness hangs in the air. Some people are standing by themselves, lost in their own thoughts, while others are huddled together in groups and having discussions.
A man in a black suit stands in front of a podium. He clears his throat, taps the microphone, and says something. Everyone else quiets down and starts filing into the room.
He begins his speech in English. The speaker is clearly distraught. Besides him, there's a large board with photographs of some of the victims of the M-Tower bombing.
John quietly sits down next to Mahmoud and listens intently. Mahmoud has a notepad in his lap and he's busily writing down notes.
What none of these poor people know is that the Marjan Tower bombing was the work of Unit 8211. They do not even suspect foul play.
All they want are answers and accountability from the image-obsessed Emirati authorities who could care less about them.
It is truly heartbreaking to hear and see these families and friends, grieving and crying over the loved ones who were violently snatched away from this world.
John can't help but wonder what he'd do in their shoes. The best he and his fellow Assassins can do is Judge those Israeli bastards accordingly when the time comes.
He feels sorry for these innocent victims, and he promises them in his head that justice WILL be served in due time.
(But the Israelis aren't the only responsible party. The apathetic and callous Emirati authorities ALSO have blood on their hands. Who will Judge them?)
This meeting was called to discuss the aftermath of the Marjan Tower explosion, what should be done going forward, and how the authorities have been (mis)handling the situation so far.
There's a lot of anger and sadness in the room, but there's also a lot of determination to see this through to something tangible.
When the speaker gives the attendees a chance to speak, the heart wrenching stories of the victims' relatives begin.
Mahmoud is scribbling notes in Arabic and muttering to himself, clicking his tongue every now and then. He's probably taking down quotes and statements, but it's hard to say.
Some people are angry, others are sad, some are trying to be reasonable, but they're all hurting greatly. What all these people want is an investigation into the matter. A proper, independent one.
Not a single soul in this room buys the official "gas leak" narrative, and for good reason. A few point out to how eerily similar this event was to the AJRT explosion 5 years ago.
The speaker says that the authorities have been refusing to cooperate with the families and friends of the victims, and that their efforts to find the truth behind the tragedy have been repeatedly thwarted.
There are attempts to present a comprehensive count of the deceased (and destroyed). It's in the high 100s.
John places his hand on his mouth, eyes wide in shock. Mahmoud shakes his head in disgust and winces.
1 man says that he knew 1 of the (mortal) victims personally. He starts weeping and wailing as he explains how the victim was the father of 4 young children who are now all orphans.
That man was simply in a hard place, out of a job and struggling to get by and feed his family. His kids were taken away, and he found himself squatting in the M-Tower when it came crumbling down.
A Tamil-speaking woman hobbles to the front. Her young daughter translates. This woman's son was only 18. He ran away from home 2 years ago, and she never saw or heard from him again until the news came.
There were many people living in the M-Tower, most of them seemed to be poor immigrants working for a pittance, just trying to get by in a city with an extremely high cost of living.
More people come forward and share their stories. Some of them were students, some were workers, some were lovers, some were old friends, and all of them were taken too soon. All of them.
The meeting continues like this, and John stays through the entire thing. Mahmoud watches on, his expression a mix of disgust, horror, sadness, and anger.
There's a simple table to the corner, with rows of Fanta poured in transparent plastic cups, chunky veg samosas, and a bowl of seedless dates.
Eventually, the speaker announces that there will be a march tomorrow to the site of the explosion, demanding the truth behind it.
Objections are raised, wherein the obvious is pointed out: the authorities WILL clamp down hard, and this could escalate into violence. People may even die. This could lead to the authorities cracking down harder.
This is an issue, and the speaker asks for the crowd's opinions. Many are reluctant, but the younger folk in attendance seem willing. Some are eager, even.
A Southeast Asian man from a local Pentecostal church plays a remembrance song in honor of the victims. A woman reads a poem in Urdu, a group of women sing in Tagalog, a young child recites a somber poem in Arabic. It's a moving moment. Truly.
John thinks to himself, "Goddamn. They--they were innocent people. It wasn't just Kindred in there. Hell, I'm convinced that--that there were barely any Kindred in the tower. Just...people. Mortals. Living their lives and struggling. They died, and for what?!"
The meeting lasts about an hour and a half. The speaker finally announces that the meeting is over, and everyone files out of the room, either in groups or by themselves.
John and Mahmoud go out with the rest of the attendees and head their separate ways.
John's dead heart is heavy, as are the (still-beating) hearts of the mortals who were present. They all feel drained and exhausted, and not sure of how to proceed.
Protests will be crushed, demands for answers will be silenced, attempts at accountability will be stonewalled. This is how things are (by deliberate design) here in the UAE.
Some people stick around and sit in circles, discussing or just trying to comfort each other and share their feelings.
Soon enough, people begin leaving, and many of them are still crying on the way out. Some are talking to each other, some are wistfully looking at pictures on the board, and others are just staring into space.
John asks if Mahmoud can get home safely, "You need a lift or anything?"
Mahmoud chuckles, "Habibi, I have been confined to this thing for...a long time. And you know what 'a long time' usually means to us Kindred, yes?"
"Damn. I'm so sorry."
"Tch. Do not apologize. It is not your fault. If anything, it is...mine. Ah, you have things to do now, no?"
"Yep. I guess I do. Still. If there's anything I can do to help you, please don't hesitate to ask. Seriously."
Mahmoud tells his fellow bloodsucker, "Just give Mnar whatever she asks. She is my friend and I trust her completely. I hope we see each other again soon! I will keep you in prayer, habibi!"
"Yeah, me too. Thanks! You have a good night, man."
"You too, habibi! Alwadae (AR: Bye)!"
The 2 Banu Haqim part ways. John heads back to his Haven to exercise, train, and listen to Kristin Mainhart tunes on full blast. He needs to be ready for the upcoming battles against the Unit 8211 scum.
Meanwhile...
Mark Kincaid's penthouse is a stunning, lavish, and luxurious dwelling. It has 2 master bedrooms, an office, a study, a spacious living room with a fireplace, and a dining room that can fit at least a dozen people.
The air is conditioned, cool, and crisp. The floors are marble, and the windows are made of tinted, bulletproof glass. Automatic shutters act as additional security, just in case.
There are a few random paintings on the walls, and a state-of-the-art security system that has a team of private security guards ready to respond to any threat or intrusion.
The Ventrue Primogen's Haven is definitely a place that only the wealthiest in this city could possibly afford.
Mark is dressed in a random anime hoodie. Some random anime plays from his wall-mounted flatscreen television. A PS3 and XBOX360 are connected to the TV as well.
The Blue Blood has his bare feet propped up on the coffee table, and his attention is focused on the stuff he's watching. He laughs along at the crap on the screen. The lights are bright, and the volume is high.
His doorbell rings. Mark immediately turns off the TV, dims the lights, pats the sides of his head, ruffles his hair, and walks towards the door. He takes a deep breath, composes himself, and opens it.
Seth stands there, his snake head cane planted firmly on the floor, his hand covering its emerald eyes. He is dressed in a patterned blue shirt, a blazer, and a pair of khakis. His eyes are hidden behind tinted eyeglasses.
Mark welcomes his visitor, "Seth! Wazzup, buddy! C'mon in. I'm so glad that you could make the time to come and--and see me."
Seth smiles, but it's more serpentine than sincere. He says, "Of course. You asked for my help and I came."
Mark is already making his way to the couch. He gestures to the couch, "Please. Take a seat. Make yourself at home. Mi casa and all that crap."
The Setite High Priest takes a good, long look around the Ventrue's fancy Haven and remarks, "You've truly outdone yourself, haven't you, Mark?"
Mark plops down on the couch and extends his arms, "Hey, man, if you got it, flaunt it. Y'know? Am I right or am I right? What's Unlife without a little...pizzazz, huh? You know a bit about that, don't you?"
Seth is still standing, but he is leaning on his cane. His smile remains, "I guess I do." He slowly walks forward and takes his place. He looks around and nods at the dimmed lights.
The Ventrue sniffs, "So, what's up?"
"You tell me, Mr. Kincaid. How are things with you? How's your debt situation going? Owing half the city is not exactly enviable, is it?"
Mark rubs his face, "Eh, whatever. I've got some influence and I'm doing my best to leverage that to my advantage. I uh--I uh...called you here to...well, y'know."
Seth lifts his chin, "Of course. Offering help of a spiritual nature is my specialty, Mark. I'm glad that you're seeking Typhon's guidance."
Mark leans forward, "Uh, yeah, yeah. So, you're gonna help me. Good, good, good. So, like, um, when do we start?"
Seth tilts his head, "Whenever you're ready. How 'bout at the beginning?"
The Ventrue scratches the back of his head, "I tried, like, therapy. A lot of it, man. It just wasn't my--my vibe, I guess?"
Seth dismissively states, "All of that is...nonsense, Mark. Another pointless fixture of modernity. That sort of thing isn't for our kind. We're better, hell, we can do better."
Mark points his finger and nods his head, "Exactly! Yeah, totally. Like, they want you to talk about your childhood or something, and then they're like, 'dude, maybe your parents didn't hug you enough'."
The Viper chuckles, "Hmm, yes. If anything, you should detach yourself from what binds you. Tell me, Mr. Kincaid, what is it that binds you the most?"
Mark strokes his chin and thinks for a long moment, "Uh...I'm Ventrue and we got a thing in our Clan where the very name of our Sires carries weight and--and puts these expectations upon you."
"Of course, I understand completely. What else?"
"Well, uh, you know. Uh, stuff. My Sire, she was- and probably still is- a sorta liaison working with the UN. She acts as a sorta go-between between herself and really eminent people from all over the world."
"Wow. You've told me this before, but it was a long time ago, wasn't it?"
"Y--Yeah. Point is, she probably saw something in me and Embraced me. And boy...did I royally screw the pooch, hahahaha! I had no choice but to leave America and take my chances here in the UAE. The rest you already know."
Seth thoughtfully nods, "Hmm. Yes, I do. You didn't quite live up to her expectations, correct?"
"Yup! I screwed up majorly. Some people got hurt and killed, the Masquerade got breached, and I ended up having to pay a big fine, and it still ain't enough. But hey, we're here to talk about me. So, let's do that. What do you think?"
Seth shrugs, "And after that, your Sire was disappointed in you. She was this close to destroying you, so you had to flee."
Mark laughs nervously, "Hah, yeah, she was, like, super mad at me. Super-duper mad, man!"
"But you've changed, haven't you?"
Mark shrugs, "Eh, I guess so. I came here, made mad money, networked with some dope people, and--" he stops to do an encompassing gesture of the entire penthouse, "--look at this, man! Look at all of this!"
Seth faintly chuckles, "Yes, look at all of it. It's giving me some ideas on some...redesigning that I need to do myself."
"Yeah, sure. Hey, I'm all about the hustle, man. I'm just out here, making the best of Unlife."
"Of course, Mr. Kincaid. And yet, I sense an...emptiness within you. Your calling me here tonight shows me that much."
Mark leans forward and inquires, "Hey, where's your Ghoul? Eddie, right?"
With mild annoyance lacing his tone, Seth responds, "It's Edwin. And I told him to wait in the car. I didn't want him here with us. Truth is, I'm starting to...get a bit wary of him."
Mark's jaw drops, "Holy crap! What?! You serious? Why? What'd he do?"
"He's...lacking in certain areas. He's a decent driver and fairly adequate when it comes to the cleaning. That's really just about it, really. Anyway, I didn't come here to talk about him. Forget him. I'm here for you, Mr. Kincaid."
The Ventrue grins and nervously wiggles in his seat, "Oh, drop the whole 'Mr. Kincaid' thing. Mark's fine, seriously. We've known each other for fucking decades now."
"Yes, of course. Tell me what bothers you the most, Mr. Kincaid. It does concern the debts that are currently looming over you, yes? You can't keep them off of you forever, correct?"
Mark wrings his hands together, "I thought that I COULD keep it all at bay by waving my hands and Jedi mind tricking my way through it, but that's becoming increasingly harder to do."
"Of course, I figured as much. Frequent use of Dominate on the same people over and over again does have certain...unforeseen side effects. What are your options, then? How will you proceed from here?"
The Ventrue Primogen cluelessly shrugs, "Man, I don't know. I was thinking of, like, changing my name, getting new IDs, maybe a new hairdo, and going, like, hermit mode for a few years before resurfacing, but--"
Seth cuts him off, "Not half a bad plan, Mr. Kincaid. But I think that you can do so much better than that."
Mark raises his palms, "Well, what do you think I should do?"
The Typhonist suggests, "We're all just going with the flow here, aren't we? Doing what comes naturally to us, heh. You could, of course, lighten the load on yourself."
"And how would I do that, exactly?"
A predatory smile forms on Seth's face as he leans closer, "Back in the States, my father was a preacher- the fire and brimstone kind. It was a very core part of my upbringing. His booming mid-Atlantic voice boomed through all radios back then."
He continues, "During my younger years, I accompanied him and my mother on preaching and revival trips throughout most of the Northeastern United States. Mom would go crazy with the tambourine..."
"Wow."
Seth faintly chuckles, "Heh, yeah. That's 1 way of putting it. And little old me, dressed smartly, would go around with the collection plate. Yep, I was the one who'd go around, do a little puppy-dog eyes look, and watch those hicks part with what little they had."
"Sheesh, that sounds kinda manipulative. I've seen my fair share of churches, but I've never seen kids go around and collect tithes and offering."
The Serpent shrugs indifferently, "Well, times were different back then. My dad knew what he was doing when he had me go around, shaking that shiny plate. Anyway, it's all water under the bridge now. I'm sure you're wondering what this has to do with your situation, right?"
Mark's lips quirk upward, "Yeah."
Seth goes in for the "kill" by saying, "Lately, there have been talks among the other Kindred. With the SI swarming around in our backyard, people- who shall remain unnamed- have been claiming that the Ventrue aren't doing a thing about it."
Mark's face scrunches in confusion, "That's not true, man! It's not. It's not true. At all. Like, we might not be on the frontlines, fighting against those goddamn bugs and--and..."
Seth raises his hand, "The point is: people are making all sorts of insinuations, and you know how rotten people can be. Well, we need some way to...shut them up, don't we?"
Mark's expression softens, "Sure. What do, like, have in mind?"
Ah.
Seth forces a deep breath, and his amber eyes momentarily become slits. His fingers grip the emeralds on his snake-headed cane. He begins, "I'll tell you exactly what we should do."
Mark is attentive, but the Setite's expression and tone are...worrying, to say the least.
"What's that, then? Come on, tell me."
"If I'm going to give you my help, if I'm going to give you Typhon's help, then I'm going to need something from you in return. Call it a...little favor, if you will."
"Oh, sure, dude, of course. You can name it. Seriously, I owe you so much. Anything you want. Just, like, name it and it's done."
Seth loves the sound of that, "The Ventrue, more so than any other Clan, are associated with money, prestige, and power. People say you're not doing your part in the fight against the SI threat..."
Mark lets the High Priest's words sink in.
"...Despite your current problems, you are STILL a man of considerable means, a man of many friends, and a man who knows how the world works, am I right?"
Mark scratches his head, "Uh, sure, yeah. I'm still a high roller, the whole debts thing is...like a phase, I guess. Just a phase."
"Good, good, good. Now, what I'm about to propose will help both of us in the long run. I'm going to have to ask you to make a very public and...large contribution to our efforts to eradicate the SI."
WHOA!
Mark's eyes widen in shock, "HOLY SHIT! That's--that's--that's insane, man!"
Seth waves his hand dismissively, "Relax, relax. It's not for me- I won't see a cent of it. It's for the good of all Kindred here in Al-Kushraf. We could do a lot with that kind of money."
(It is abso-fucking-lutely for Mr. Steale!)
Mark sighs deeply, "OK. I could...write a check, I guess. But why?"
Seth shrewdly points out, "Think about what happens after the last Inquisitor has been...taken care of. I don't want anyone to say that the Ventrue Clan didn't do their part once the SI has finally been wiped out."
Mark blinks a few times and rubs his hands together, mulling it over, "Hmm. Hm. Hm. You have a point. You make a lot of good points. Um, but--how do I explain it to the others?"
The Serpent smoothly states, "Leave that part to me, old friend. I know the Ventrue are not the combative types- we have the Blade of Haqim and the other Assamites for that. Write the check and I'll make sure that your Clan gets to share in the..."
He pauses and lowers his voice to a hissing whisper, "...the spoils."
Mark takes a deep breath, "Damn, Seth, this is some heavy shit you're putting on me, dude."
Seth nods his head and leans back, "Yes, yes, I know. But I'm just a concerned friend. I came here to guide you, and this is my guidance. You could reject it, but I'd sincerely recommend otherwise."
"You're really putting me on the spot, y'know?"
"Well, we've known each other for decades now, haven't we, Mr. Kincaid? You could always ask me for something, if you wish. If anything, I'm going out of my way to make sure that the other Clans don't have ammunition to use against the Ventrue."
"Yeah, I guess."
Seth's gaze is unblinking and intense, "What do you think, Mr. Kincaid?"
Mark leans back on the couch, crosses his arms, and looks up at the ceiling, "Man, I gotta...move some shit around, head to the banks, 'convince' a few cute tellers, 'cajole' a few itchy managers, and 'persuade' a few creepy types to...y'know. Heh. Yeah. My finances are a fucking mess."
Seth smiles, "Sounds like a good idea. You get right on that. And remember 1 thing, Mark."
The Venture absentmindedly stares up at the ceiling and hums, "Hmm?"
"I will never ask you to do anything that I wouldn’t do myself- if our positions were changed, I'd certainly be writing that check as fast as I could. Think of it as a way to cover your bases."
Mark finally looks back at his guest, "I'll do my best. This isn't going to, like, blow up in our faces, right?"
Seth lightly chuckles, "That's why I'm asking you to do this. So that any blowing up...will be, at best, minimal. People talk, I can't stop 'em, but I can try to control the damage."
The Ventrue Primogen sighs deeply, "Alright. Let's do it, then. I'll get right on it after we--we're done here."
"I'll let you know when I need that check, OK? Until then, take care, Mr. Kincaid. Is there anything else that burdens you? Anything at all? I am more than willing to share Typhon's wisdom with you."
Mark rubs his forehead, "Nah. Nah. Nah, dude. We're done here. And...thanks. I guess."
Seth rises from the couch, and so does Mark, who walks his visitor to the door.
The Blue Blood presses his lips into a tight smile, waves the Sand-Snake goodbye, tells him to stay in touch, and shuts the door.
The Viper, satisfied and pleased (exceedingly so), makes his way to his Ghoul.
Edwin is waiting in the car. He's fiddling with some radio knobs and looks a lot more uneasy than usual. He sees his Domitor, shoves the last of some chilly fries into his mouth, and he rolls the window down.
Seth has his chin held high. The Ghoul has some chilly dust on his chin.
Edwin asks, "Uh, how'd it go, sir?"
Seth gets in the back and throws his head back, letting out a sigh of relief, "We'll be just fine, Edwin. Drive us home."
The Ghoul looks in the rearview mirror, "Did you get him to see reason, sir?"
The High Priest smiles, "Mr. Kincaid and I have come to a mutually beneficial arrangement. Now, drive."
"Of--of course, sir." The Ghoul starts the car up and joins the late-night traffic.
As they make their way through the city, Edwin keeps glancing in the mirror, at his master.
Seth's eyes are closed, his cane rests between his legs, and his hands are clasped over his stomach. He recalls his time as a child, going with his father and mother to preaching trips throughout impoverished and rural portions of the Northeastern US.
Dad would be howling at the top of his lungs and sweating. Mom would rock back and forth, lift her hands up and scream "Amen!" at random intervals.
It was your typical obscurantist fire and brimstone claptrap and blustering nonsense so common of those types of people in the first half of the 20th century.
There was plenty of conservative, racist, and misogynistic drivel and nonsense to be had, along with the usual anti-intellectualism and paranoia that was so common back then.
(Add to that the Red Scare, and it's truly a toxic sludge).
But the best part of those "divinely ordained" trips were the people who would drop a few dollars into the plate that little Seth Steale would go around shaking.
They were mostly poor, simple country folk who were being taken for a ride by an obnoxious man threatening hellfire for every single thing under the sun.
Many were white. A few were black, they were not wholly welcome, but their money was accepted all the same.
On these nights, Mr. Steale's own sermons at his cult come from his preacher dad's incoherent scribblings and yikes notes (plagiarized to the last syllable, basically).
Add to that Seth's time with the Young Republicans, because Seth Steale (at heart) is very much a Republican, despite being in the UAE for decades now.
(Seth will always be a Young Republican, and they are a foul fucking bunch).
But that was a lifetime ago, and so many things have changed since then.
Seth was a little boy back then, but he's a man now. His dad and mom used him as a prop to help with "The Lord's Work". Next, his Sire (Rafael) led him on, treated him cruelly, and used him as a glorified errand boy.
Now, Seth Steale is a respected leader and a High Priest of a cult with a good enough reach. But there's so much more that he aims to be. Oh, there is so much more that he has in store.
The Sand-Snake's amber eyes snap open and a smug smile forms on his pale face.
Seth preaches detachment from whatever binds you, yet he owns 2 Havens within this city. He tells his devotees that his messages come straight from Typhon, when it's all just rehashed religious conservative obscurantist bluster mixed in with various other things.
(Like Gnostic Christian teachings, irrational woo-woo stuff, and whatever else he can mix, mash, and match- so long as it predates the Enlightenment).
And his Ghoul?
Well, Edwin's on thin ice as of now. He hasn't helped any cultist make any more phone calls to the outside world- disposing of numerous exsanguinated bodies in such a short timespan does put things into perspective, so to speak.
As Edwin is driving, Seth realizes that he's forgotten something quite important. He tells Edwin to IMMEDIATELY turn back. The tires squeal against the asphalt and the car makes a sharp U-turn as some people curse at Edwin.
Seth's mind races. He's so close.
(So. Fucking. Close.)
His plans are in motion, the wheels are turning, and the dice are cast.
The High Priest thinks to himself, "No one will be able to stand in my way now. Once I'm done...not even Rafael will be able to hold me back!"
(Mr. De La Cruz is in Torpor, so yeah.)
In his car, the High Priest is silent. The only sound he hears is the sounds of the cityscape- honking horns, planes flying overhead, some hovering helicopters, and such.
The harsh light emanating from the various passing cars causes Seth to hiss and wince in pain. His Clan Abhors the Light, be it natural or artificial.
And yet, Seth doesn't roll up the window or look away. He likes the sounds. He likes the sights. He likes the energy and the atmosphere. He likes this city.
Hell, he even likes the pain that hits him when a high beam headlight strikes him dead-on.
He doesn't mind it, because it reminds him. It reminds him of all the pain, all the torture that he had to endure. It reminds him that, despite being a blood-drinking creature of the night, he is also something...greater.
Destined for greatness, if you will.
Al-Kushraf city is his home now, but the Typhonist has ambitions beyond its borders.
Seth knocks on Mark's door and waits. The Ventrue is wearing something more respectable this time around- a green suit, a button-down dress shirt, and a black tie.
(It looks like he was going to go and get his finances "in order").
Mark looks askance at the Setite, "Yeah? You forget something?"
Seth grins, "There's something I need to remind you of, Mark. It won't take long."
Mark leans against the doorway, "Um...sure. OK. What's up?"
The obsessed Tempter raises his chin and his expression hardens, "It's regarding Svetlana Bobrov. The Assamite. You've met her, right?"
"Yeah. Uh--what about her?"
Seth plainly states, "Stay the hell away from her. If you've had romantic or sexual thoughts about her, stop. She's mine. And I won't have you or anybody else getting in my way. Are we clear, Mark?"
Mark looks shocked, "Holy shit, man! I wasn't, like, planning anything, dude. Chill, man. Chill. Whoa. You're...whoa...you're crazy about her, huh? Wow."
Seth's tone gets more desperate and aggressive, "I'm not kidding around, Mark. Stay the hell away from her. She's mine. I love her and I WILL have her."
Disturbing obsession drips from literally every word uttered.
The Ventrue Primogen shakes his head and is taken aback, "Jesus, Seth. OK. Take a chill pill. She's not my type anyway. Have you asked her out yet or--"
"I have something in mind. The Celebration Of Power is coming up. I'm going to ask her then...or before that, Typhon willing."
"Oh. Um. Yeah. Sure, yeah. Go for it, man. I'll, uh, leave her alone."
"You better, Mr. Kincaid. And tell your fellow Ventrue not to get any ideas, too. OK?"
Mark gulps deeply and looks shaken, "O--OK. Yeah. I'll get the message out. Uh-huh, okey-doke." He grins awkwardly, feeling uncomfortable and intimidated.
Seth places his cold hand on the Ventrue's shoulder, "I'm glad that we understand each other. Now, get your finances in order, write that check, and sit back and let the others take care of the dirty work. It's that simple, heh. Take care, old friend."
Seth makes his way back to the car and is driven away.
Mark Kincaid, shaken by the Setite's bizarre behavior and threats, closes the door and takes a deep breath. Either way, he decides to do some little rearranging of his money and finances while the night persists.
A little Dominate will have to be (mis)used to mush people's brains and get some bankers, nosy managers, and other "types" to make him look better off.
After some stressful encounters with some guys (and gals) who were not quite easy to persuade, Mark goes to a nightclub that he is a VIP member of (was, since his membership officially expired years ago).
The loud, thumping music does cause his dead heart to act up. The flashing strobe lights make his skin crawl and the smells, the smells are a mixture of sweat, booze, perfume, and...blood.
He needs to feed. Since he's a Ventrue, any ol' warm body won't do. Nope.
Blud has got them Rarefied Tastes- the Ventrue Clan Bane. He needs a very specific type of person to feed from. Luckily, his Rarefied Tastes are not so complicated (or yikes-level problematic).
It's just bouncers, that's it. Age, build, and gender doesn't matter.
Mark approaches a muscular guy in a tight suit and tie. He's a tall man with a shaved head, a square jaw, and a curly mustache.
The Ventrue Primogen cracks a knowing smile and goes with this large man to a more...discreet area, where no one can see them.
Mark's fangs pop out, and his eyes sparkle in the near-dark and hazy club. He sinks his fangs into the bouncer's neck, and the larger man shudders in ecstasy.
The big guy's eyes glaze over and his head lolls to the side. He lets out a tiny gasp.
Mark can feel the blood flow. His lips are pressed firmly against the bouncer's neck, and he can taste the sweat and the salty, salty skin. The blood has a hint of lemon, and the Ventrue drinks the blood in deeply, hungrily.
After a few euphoric seconds, Mark stops, wipes the blood off his lips, licks the wounds closed, and tells the bouncer to forget what just happened.
The bouncer guy waddles off, almost losing his balance and falling down. Mr. Kincaid's Beast rumbles in satisfaction and the night carries on till the sun rises.
Chapter 20: Slasher- Part 2
"The great bulk of the fascists consists of human dust." -Leon Trotsky
The sun does what it must. For a time, the city is bathed in a golden hue. People rush to get to work, and the air is filled with the sound of vehicles.
The Kindred sleep throughout the day. They slumber on beds, hidden rooms, abandoned buildings, and the like.
Life in this gilded cage of a city carries on. The tragedy of the Marjan Tower continues to weigh heavily upon the hearts and minds of many. The city is on edge, and the Inquisitors are still on the prowl.
At sundown, the Kindred begin to stir from their day-long slumber. These nocturnal predators awaken and begin their night anew. Some are hungry (for the only special thing), some are cranky, and others have a different kind of appetite.
Once these immortals awaken, their Hunger (to varying degrees) hits them with full force. Some might find it easier to feed (be it easy pickings, unusual arrangements, or whatever else), while others will have to hunt and stalk the dark summer night.
But ALL Kindred have their ceaseless Hunger to contend with. The Beast demands satiation, 1 way or another. And there are plenty of ways for the Kindred to quench their thirst in this gilded cage of a city.
Mark is told to write the check- he gets on it tonight. The money goes into some kind of a trust that has ALREADY been setup by Seth. Not at all eyebrow-raising, habibi!
The High Priest will, as time goes by, help himself to all of it. Mark is told that it's a way of lightening the load. That this will somehow (elaboration refused) help him with his debt issues.
Mr. Kincaid is told that he can go around boasting about writing a massive check- the Ventrue are doing their part in driving out the SI menace once and for all.
It will be great PR for the Ventrue Clan and further helps them look good once the time comes to divvy up whatever spoils there may be.
At night, the city's lights come on. The evening crowd throngs about- bars, nightclubs, house parties, etc. Others also prepare for the nightshift or get ready to brave the traffic and catch some ZZZ on the way back home after a long, arduous day at work.
Mr. Thomas "Tommy" Bollard, the Nosferatu Primogen, has some more (juicy) info for the Assamites. He's summoned them to meet him in an "office".
It's an abandoned, crumbling structure near the docks. The area is very secluded. The smell of brine hangs heavy in the air, and the sounds of the sea are ever-present.
Svetlana looks around and says nothing. She's dressed in a short kurti and black leggings. Her blonde hair has been straightened and is held back with a black headband.
Her Sire, John, stands next to her. He's got his guitar case slung over his shoulder, and he's wearing a dark blue denim jacket and a pair of dark shades.
Zeina is nearby. She surveys the area with narrowed eyes. She's got a plain black shirt on, some slacks, and some boots. Her hair is a tad messy, and her face looks slightly sunken.
The bags under her eyes indicate long and tiring work hours, if nothing else. She's got her cold hands in her pockets, and she's tapping her foot. Her eyes scan the area for threats.
There's some light shoving and pushing noises coming from within that falling structure. Somewhere in the distance, a dog barks. Another one answers it. A cat screeches. A plane flies overhead.
Zeina pulls out her long dagger. Her claws and fangs also pop out as well. Her eyes glow for a moment, and her pupils narrow. The wind blows across the docks. Her eyes dart back and forth.
Some trash blows in the wind. It's mostly plastic wrappers, bits of paper, and some discarded cigarette butts.
John sniffs and snickers lightly, "Easy, Zeina. Look." He nods over to figures moving through the shadows. Svetlana comes over to see some dark shapes moving and hobbling closer.
A grating Scottish accent puts everyone at ease, "Right, 'mon then! That's no way tae greet a friend!"
John shakes his head and sighs, "You said that you have something for us. Where's Samir? Also, I need to ask you something."
Tommy is wearing a tattered cravat around his neck. His off-black suit has dust patches on the knees and elbows, and his shoes have some mud splatters on them.
Even though, he's wearing his trademark mosaic-patterned porcelain mask, his eyes look haunted and tired. It looks like he's been crying. A lot. This does not go unnoticed by the Assamite trio.
The Nosferatu Primogen, looking more like a desperate tramp than a Primogen, sighs deeply, "Aye, Samir...he'll be here. Nae bother." Even his voice sounds heavier and sadder than usual.
He goes to shake hands with Svetlana, then Zeina, and finally John.
He gives the trio a rundown of some more information. It's more of the same, really: enemy patrol routes, patrol timetables, keyword lists, and other general security measures and countermeasures in place.
(Not the whole picture, but helpful enough to move the pieces around).
However, he mentions something new: an SI squad has been spotted near Abu Dhabi's borders. They were carrying out a patrol of some kind in a rather odd area.
Tommy paces around, "Abu Dhabi is nae go for these cunts. It looks like they cannae even go in. Heh, those fucking Tremere really are taking every measure tae protect their Domain."
John cuts to the chase and brings something up, "Last night, somebody told me that the Nosferatu knew about the raid on Dubai EVEN before the Ministry was informed."
Tommy twitches and dismissively waves a deformed hand, "Ach. Nae be talking pish, wee man."
John presses, "They also told me that the Nosferatu were spying on us long before we set foot in Al-Kushraf. After all we've been through, I think we deserve some answers." He folds his arms and waits.
Tommy stops pacing, looks around, and he lets out a sad little laugh, "I thought yous were smarter than that, Johnny boy."
He paces a circle around the Assamites, "I'll tell yous this once, so listen up: cannae be too careful. All those weeks ago, there was some wee chatter about something about to go doon in Dubai."
Svetlana blinks and raises her eyebrows. She gasps, "What? Tell us more, no?"
The Nossie faintly grunts, "Patience, hen. Patience. Geez a second to gather the thoughts, awright?"
"Anyway, there was this wee bit of talk about some...group planning to cause some havoc in yer Dubai. I didnae know the specifics, mind you. And I discarded it as mere rumors and shite."
John exclaims, "You what?! Y--You mean to say that you KNEW about the SI hitting us in Dubai and you DIDN'T warn us?!"
Tommy snaps, "Calm doon, ya bawbag! It was nae important at the time! I had nae way of knowing if it was the truth or not! I--I even went tae the High Priest and he told me to nae worry aboot it."
He lowers his head and mumbles, "He acted very strange and told me to drop it."
Zeina pipes up, "Why?!" Her tone reflects pain and disbelief in equal measure.
The Sewer Rat shrugs, "Even I don't know why, hen. Looking back, I wish we--we had done more tae look into it." There's remorse in his voice. It's clear that Tommy regrets not doing much about this, "And now...look."
Svetlana's eyes widen in horror. She asks, "W--What kind of information about the raid?"
Tommy adjusts his mask, "That's another thing that's been nagging at me, hen. I've been going through all the data we salvaged from those SI wallopers and I cannae find a focking thing related tae Dubai in it."
John shakes his head, "What? How's that possible?"
Zeina looks at Thomas with a furrowed brow, "Yes. HOW? Those Israelis, curse them, love to boast about their operations far and wide. How is it that you have found nothing about the raid on Dubai in their files or however you call it?"
Tommy takes a deep breath and says, "I don't know, hen. But I'm going to keep looking...to keep digging. I--I'll figure it out, nae bother. Nae. Bother."
 He looks up and sees Samir making his way over, along with Garth. The Assamite has, for all intents and purposes, decided to stay with the Crawlers down in their Warrens.
Samir's deep programming knowledge (4 different languages) is very handy to the tech-savvy Nosferatu Clan as a whole. Plus, it's always good to have someone like that on the ol' team.
Samir, for his part, doesn't mind staying amongst misshapen heads, hunched backs, protruding teeth, and twisted limbs. The deformed vampires down there are nice enough. They are decent company. And they are good people.
They have no control over the nature of their Blood. It's not their fault that they wear their Clan's Bane (Repulsiveness) on the outside. It doesn't necessarily reflect who they are (or aren't) on the inside.
The Assamite, dressed in a black hoodie and some 3/4ths khaki shorts, walks over and greets everyone.
John pats his friend's back, "Loving it down there in the sewers, huh?"
Samir smiles and nods, "Very much. The Nosferatu have use for my skills, and my opportunities for finding a job were not going so well, so...it only made sense to stay with them and try to help out in some way."
Zeina gives him a hug and tells him, "We're all glad that you're here."
Svetlana tightly smiles at her fellow Assamite, "I am happy that you have found a place where you fit in, Samir."
The Nosferatu Primogen speaks up, "Right. We've all got something new for yous. More of the same, really. Patrol routes, lists of words being scanned for, the usual shite."
John, with a bit of hope lacing his tone, asks, "Do you have anything more than that?"
Garth speaks up, "A good evening to all of you. Unfortunately, no. This is all that we are capable of salvaging. By now, you lot are familiar with the drill: kill more of those tossers, get their SD cards from their devices, and hand it over to us to sort out."
Tommy nods and gestures at Garth, "Aye. It's just like Garth said. There is 1 wee thing to mention, though."
He looks around and clears his throat, "I'm seeing fragments. Apparently, these bastards captured a prisoner recently. We don't know who they are or if they're even still alive. All we're seeing is...Garth, go on, tell them."
Garth's shemagh falls down and nearly exposes his hideous face, he quickly pulls it up and says, "Well. The fragments we found mention a prisoner being held somewhere in the city. Now, this might be an old lead, but we thought you ought to know about it."
John queries, "Is there anything else you got? A name? A location?"
Garth shakes his head, "Unfortunately not. All we know is that this prisoner was marked as a potential quote-unquote 'blank body sympathizer' by someone or something called the err--"
Thomas takes over, "LVNDR. I have nae fucking idea what or who it is. I tried poking around the gaffe but could nae find anything. Maybe it's an organization or a shady group?"
Samir points out, "It very well could be, yes. Until we have more information, we can only guess at what it is or who is behind it. Regardless, if this prisoner is still alive, then..."
Zeina finishes the sentence for him, "We need to find them. And fast! I know all too well about how these wretched Zionists mistreat those they capture."
Svetlana nods, "Yes, they are monsters. If they still have a prisoner, we must rescue them. John?"
"Yep. Absolutely, Svetlana. Absolutely. If only we had a...y'know, lead on whoever this is." Mr. Suarez looks straight at Tommy.
The Sewer Rat clicks his tongue harshly, "Aye, aye. Nae be putting pressure on us. We're working as diligently as we can, awright? Your wee pal Samir over here can confirm that, right?"
Samir solemnly nods, "They even work while the sun is up, walla. At least that is 1 advantage of being deep underground. Heh. I'll let you know if we find anything. In the meantime, we shall Judge more of these dogs and do our part."
Zeina's eyes narrow, "We will."
Svetlana nods in agreement, "Da. We will Judge them. All."
Tommy shows John a PDA with a map of Unit 8211's current patrolling routes. After the recent skirmishes, their patrol routes have been altered and doubled in certain sectors.
Sufi Street is practically crawling with these fascist maniacs, and it's also a dense place. Not the wisest of choices to start a fight there, that's for sure.
After some more chatter and deciding where to hit, the Assamites thank the 2 Nossies and leave. They've got places to be and scum to slash.
Samir has his poignard on his person. He tells his fellow Banu Haqim about his time down in the Nosferatu Warrens. He seems to be liking it very much and is even getting along with some of the Crawlers down there.
John chuckles, "I'm glad you're doing well, man. You deserve to be happy and feel at home."
Samir smiles a little, "Thank you, John. I heard that you are this Clan's Primogen now, yes?"
The speedy Assamite chuckles lightly, "Ah, yeah. I had to. I saw no other choice. We need people if we're gonna get rid of these SI fucks."
Zeina nods in agreement, "Yes. We will kill them all, God willing. We must. They must be Judged for what they did. They must be stopped from harming any more innocent people."
Svetlana fully concurs, "Da. We now have many of our fellow Banu Haqim who will come to help us fight them. We will, like John said, bite back."
It took a while for the Assamites to decide where to do battle, until Garth stepped in and pointed out a potential spot.
1 of the patrol routes passes through an alleyway in Salah Street, not too far from a hotel that is currently undergoing renovations. A legal dispute has left it in a state of limbo, so it's (for all intents and purposes) empty.
There are some barely working surveillance cameras. And with Unit 8211 thugs patrolling nearby, it would make for a great ambush point. Time to dig in and get everything set up!
The hotel's windows are either dark or non-existent. The paint on the walls is already peeling, and the doors to some rooms have been boarded shut. The whole area is quiet, save for the odd car passing by or some tourist helicopters flying overhead.
The Assamites set up their ambush in the hotel itself. The marble flooring looks pristine. Some of the fancy ceiling fans have cobwebs on them. The power has been cut off, owing to those legal disputes.
The emergency generator has run out of diesel a long time ago. The odd rat scurries across the floor. Svetlana wrinkles her nose in disgust at the sight of them.
A couple of spiders are also present, but they are too busy making webs to pay the vampires any mind. The hotel goes up for about 20 floors. Another 20 (or 4 times that) was planned, but delusions of grandeur do occasionally clash with reality in this city.
Still, one shouldn't hold one's breath.
Svetlana goes upstairs and picks a room for her and John to hide in. It has a window that faces the street below. They've got a decent view of the area around them from up here.
John has already coordinated with his fellow Assamites. He mixes those who are not of the Blade with those who are. He wants them to be able to move around quickly and freely.
John's idea is to split his fellow Assamites up and hit the patrol routes all over the city- with the non-Blade Assamites, the numbers are there for a good bit of overwhelming the foe.
Logically, the Unit 8211 patrols cannot respond to every single "incident/sighting" in the city at once. If they're isolated and hit at the same time, then that's a good thing.
But that's all a bit later. For now, the plan is to lure a few extra Zionist thugs here, give 'em a good slashing, and then draw more out with a little something.
The Assamites have their weapons on hand, ready to Judge the unjust.
Zeina is crouched down in a corner, keeping a close eye on the door. She holds her long dagger with her right hand. Her left hand is on the ground, supporting her crouched position.
Samir twirls his poignard around while leaning against the fire exit door.
The other Assamites who are here take up various positions in nooks, corners, and dusty crannies all over the place. Svetlana peers out of the window, looking for any signs of movement.
John, crouched on the floor, whispers, "Alright. You know the drill. Don't worry, we have people now."
As soon as Unit 8211 arrives, the plan is to pounce and hit them with all they've got.
John, being the guy that he is, couldn't resist baiting the enemy. He stood in front of the lobby's surveillance camera and flipped the bird at it.
(Angry and riled-up fascist dogs are easier to fight).
John also made sure to warn his fellow Assassins to NOT (under any circumstances) feed from the enemy. He already has some idea of whatever those Unit 8211 goons are injecting into their blood.
Meanwhile, at the Unit 8211 Command Center...
"Sir, sir, sir, sir! LVNDR system has flagged a hostile!" an analyst calls out, the bright glow of his screen reflecting off his glasses.
Commander Obed Gallant storms over to that person, "What?! Where?!"
The analyst zooms in on the footage, "Right here, sir! It's that Suarez guy...making a rude gesture. Salah Street is where he is."
Commander Gallant furrows his brow, "Salah Street, eh? Heh. It looks like he's trying to draw us out. Again. How very original. Dispatch nearest patrol units to that location."
Another analyst pipes up, "Sir, sir! We have reports of a plainclothes patrol unit currently engaging blank bodies on Zabeel Road! Multiple casualties already!"
Commander Gallant growls, "What?! Grrr! They're trying to distract us and divide our forces! Get me the location of that patrol! Send reinforcements! Now, what are you looking at?! DO IT!"
The analyst quickly types away and averts her gaze from her superior officer, "Y--yes, sir! Dispatching now!"
Lieutenant Hilda Klein approaches Commander Gallant. She stands ramrod straight and salutes him. Her hair is done up tightly, and her eyes are narrowed.
"Commander Gallant! We have received word from the field that a group of 5 plainclothes operatives have been KIA."
The Commander clenches his fists and grunts, "WHAT?! DAMMIT! They're trying to wear us down! Send more people to the locations they've hit so far! I want these animals caught and burnt alive! Understood?!"
Lt. Klein lifts her chin, "What are your orders, sir?"
Commander Obed firmly instructs her, "I want you to take a strike force to Salah Street. That blank body by the name of John Suarez is there. Kill or capture him. The same applies to his friends. And the blonde woman..."
A perverse smile forms on his face, but it's barely visible, "If she is there, bring her to me. Alive. Understood, Hilda?"
Lt. Klein nods sharply, "Yes, sir!" she salutes again and heads off to gather a team and get going. She grabs her grenade launcher (!), puts on some medium body armor, checks her pistol, gathers her most trusted troops, and gets ready to roll out.
Commander Gallant clenches his fists, "This Suarez guy is not as smart as he thinks he is. Tonight, John Suarez, you come to an end." He's obsessed with destroying John (and the rest of the Kindred).
After a brief wait, the patrol unit shows up. Lt. Klein and her team are still wading through traffic- Salah Street is quite far off from the Command Center.
The Assamites wait and wait...until they hear the heavy footsteps of heavily armed fascist goons drawing closer. It doesn't sound like just a couple of them, though.
"GO! GO! GO! Check those corners, stay frosty! MOVE! He's still here!" an American accent rings out from somewhere.
The Assamites pounce and charge out to greet their foes. They move at such blinding speeds that the enemy can barely register what's going on.
Some Inquisitors are slashed and stabbed in the throat; others have their limbs and joints broken by sheer preternatural force.
Gunfire rings out on the lower floors. Screaming fills the night.
The Assamites tear into the enemy forces with such ferocity. They're hitting them from every side, every corner, and every conceivable angle. A vampire pounces on someone from the ceiling and snaps their neck like a twig.
John dashes across the floor at top speed. He grabs a goon, pulls him closer, and then drives his katana blade through his stomach. The goon tries to scream but only gurgles and chokes on his blood. John drops the dead guy and then dashes off.
Samir leaps onto another thug's back and stabs him in the throat- repeatedly till blood gushes all over Samir's clothes and face.
Zeina pounces on another operator and uses her long dagger to slash his Achilles tendons. He falls to the ground, screaming in pain. She quickly climbs on top of them and slices their jugular vein.
Svetlana readies her obsidian and ceramic daggers. She sticks to the shadows and gets close enough to strike.
She jumps out and quickly slashes an enemy's throat- she's already in the next shadow before he even hits the floor. The blonde vamp moves like water- quick, lethal, and always ready to strike.
An operative curses at John, "You fucking mamzer!" he fires his pistol at him, but the bullets fly past his target.
He growls in anger, "You'll pay for this, you--" he gets grabbed by the collar, pulled close, and then stabbed in a flash, even before he can even register what happened.
The Assamites in the hotel easily cut down the last remaining soldiers of the plainclothes patrol unit. 1 of the Assamites has her leg singed by an incendiary shotgun blast.
She screams out in pain and anger. She crawls away while her wound slowly mends itself. The shotgunner continues to fire off those whitey shells, destroying 1 Assamite and severely wounding another.
She's about to fire again when Zeina slashes her stomach open and then drives her long dagger right into her face. She lets out a pained gasp and falls to the floor with a thud.
Zeina wipes the blood off her face and takes a deep breath.
It's a tough fight, but they are winning it. So far. Now that they have the advantage of numbers, things are starting to look up.
They just need to be patient and hold their ground. They can do this. They can. They will.
Some of the Assamites don't know about the reinforcements that are on the way.
After the initial wave has been taken care of, John takes a deep breath and the surviving Assamites head to the 2nd floor conference room and regroup there.
John looks around. His fellow Kindred look to him for guidance, "Right. You all did well. I'm impressed, really. Keep it up. We're not out of the woods yet. More of these assholes are on their way; I'm counting on it."
Svetlana chimes in, "Da. There are more of them coming. Stay alert. I want to see 1 person in hallways, keeping an eye out. OK?"
A young Assamite woman with a nose piercing and short black hair steps forward, "I will keep watch!" she rushes out of the conference room and takes up position in the hallway.
She crouches down, gets her kitchen knife ready, and waits. Her fangs are out, and her claws look like they've been filed into sharp(er) points.
The rest of the Assamites stay in the conference room and wait for the enemy to show up. They try to calm themselves, but it's hard when you know that there's a fight coming.
A bigger fight this time around.
Some of the inexperienced (combat wise, that is) Banu Haqim are still shuddering in fear from having been near those incendiary shotgun blasts.
John tries to reassure them, "We will get through this. Just keep your head on straight, and you'll be fine."
Zeina nods and puts a hand on a trembling man's shoulder, "He is right, my friends. Do not let your fear of the fire defeat you. Focus on the task at hand and trust in God. He will protect us."
The man's face calms down a bit, and he lets out a small smile, "Shkran (AR: Thanks)." His lips are still quivering, and his hands shake uncontrollably.
John looks out the window, "Here we go! SUVs rolling up now!" he points to the street below.
Black SUVs and unmarked vans pull up outside the hotel. A swarm of fascists gets out and heads into the hotel. Another squad enters through the back.
Some of them are armed with flamethrowers. Oh, dear.
Another Unit 8211 squad shows up. The jeep rumbles across the street until it screeches to a halt. Some thugs with assault rifles get out and start shooting at the windows.
Some Assamites are hit by gunfire. Others quickly retreat from their positions and join their comrades in the other parts of the hotel.
Bullets tear through the walls and shatter the glass windows. The Assamites wince, dodge, and jump out of the oncoming hails of gunfire. They duck under the desk and other cover that they can find.
John, Svetlana, and some other Assassins engage the enemy. They move with lightning speed and use the shadows to their advantage.
They're trying to draw out as many of them as possible.
Lt. Klein, not being one for wasting time, gets off the jeep. Her boots hit the ground hard as she marches towards the hotel's entrance with her team.
She looks up at the hotel and sees that some of the windows are shattered. She orders her troops, "MOVE! We need to get inside and establish a foothold!" she makes tactical hand gestures.
After some of her squadmates push their way inside, she grabs her grenade launcher, aims it at a top floor, and fires off a high explosive shell.
It explodes on contact and sends fiery shockwaves all over the place. It blows up a fair chunk of the hotel, but it also destroys and severely wounds a few Assamites unfortunate enough to be caught up in the blast.
Those who were also caught in the blast scream out in agony and some even fall into a Torpor from the shock alone.
A fire breaks out, and it spreads to the curtains and then to the wooden furniture. Svetlana's Rötschreck is triggered. Her pupils dilate and she hisses as her Beast takes over and propels her AWAY from the flames.
She recklessly dashes down the hallway, slashing every Inquisitor she comes across. Her claws are bloody; her clothes are stained. The Beast is very much in control here.
Both her daggers are dripping with blood. Her face has been splattered with blood, and some of it has gotten in her mouth. She makes some gross sounds and spits it out, not wishing to taste it any longer than she has to.
She almost lost full control back there and let the Beast take over. After regaining her composure, she wipes her daggers clean, growls loudly, and dashes back into the fray.
John activates his Celerity Discipline. He blinks back and forth, impaling his enemies and slicing their heads off. When he's blink-and-you'll-miss-it-fast, he does what he does best: make quick work of the enemy.
He moves so fast that his foes barely know what's going on. He cuts them down in a flash, leaving them confused and disoriented. Gun-holding limbs fly across the room, trailing blood and flesh.
He slashes at throats, legs, torsos, and stomachs. There's no mercy or restraint here. Only Judgment.
As John and some other Assamites try to keep the enemy occupied, Zeina and the others are cornered by heavy shotgunners in riot armor. They squeeze off a few blasts of that whitey-p.
2 Assamites are caught in the crossfire. Their skin melts right off and they scream in absolute agony. The others run away and screech, terrified.
1 Assamite tries to grab a thug from behind, but he's blasted right in the face. He is turned to ashes almost instantly.
Lt. Klein orders the troops to pour into the hotel and overwhelm the blank bodies. She tells a few to establish a perimeter outside.
"SHOOT ANYTHING THAT MOVES!" she commands as she takes aim at another top floor and pulls the trigger. A large gaping hole forms in the side of the hotel while chunks of debris rain down on the street below.
The sound of screams, gunshots, and explosions echoes across Salah Street. Luckily, there are no mortals nearby to witness this bloody conflict...or get caught up in it.
John and Svetlana fight hard, but their efforts aren't enough to stop the tide from turning against them.
Some of the Banu Haqim are still shaken up by the fiery gushes from the flamethrowers.
The flamethrower-wielding operatives incessantly squeeze the triggers. Fire rushes out of the nozzle like an angry dragon's breath. The Assamites try to dodge, but they can only do so much in such tight spaces.
Their clothes and skin are seared off as they scream in gut-wrenching agony. 1 of the flamethrowers is knocked out of the enemy's hands. An Assamite ferociously throws it out the window, and it lands on the street below.
A couple of Banu Haqim decide to try and pounce on the enemy, who is now left defenseless.
They charge at him, fangs and claws out. But they don't get too far. They're shot down by the other thugs in the room who come to the aid of their fallen buddy.
The sound of gunfire fills the air as bullets tear through the walls and doors.
Some of the Judges are even staked and dragged off into a dark corner, where their immobile bodies will be kept until the time is right. "Kill or capture" are the orders, after all.
Lt. Klein, her strike force, and many of the Inquisitors pour into the hotel proper. The Assamites are forced to retreat further up into the building.
Zeina runs up to 1 thug and kicks him in the face, breaking his nose. She leaps onto another, slashes their throat, and then tosses them out of the window where they hit the ground with a sickening splat.
A burly-looking Assamite grabs a goon by the throat and lifts her up into the air. He digs his claws into her throat and tears her windpipe out. After that, he says something in Arabic, and discards her limp body.
The fighting continues for some time. The Assamites keep up their fight, but they're running out of steam. They're being pushed back, and some of them have already been taken (staked), destroyed, or fallen into Torpor from the overwhelming force of the fire and explosions.
A dying operator, choking on blood, manages to drop an incendiary grenade which sets a part of the hallway on fire. It spreads rapidly, causing Svetlana's Rötschreck to be triggered once again.
Even John hisses and has trouble keeping it together. Samir dashes up the emergency staircase, to a higher floor, and looks for more enemies to kill.
The fire spreads to the ceiling and parts of it collapse onto the floor. John looks over at the fire and feels like he's going to lose control.
He grits his teeth and is struck by a few bullets strike his shoulder. He dashes away to let these wounds mend themselves.
Svetlana's head is thumping. She's struggling to keep the Beast in check. Her eyes are bloodshot, and her fangs are fully extended.
She can't take this anymore. She needs to get out of here!
Her Beast compels her to run over to the window and smashes through it, thus falling several stories down and landing on the hard ground below.
John and the others see a few Assamites desperately jump out of the window and land onto the ground. The operators on the outside either stake them or finish them off with an incendiary shotgun blast to the face.
A part of the building is on fire. Some of the walls have been destroyed by explosions, and most of the windows have been shattered.
Svetlana stabs her way through and sprints to safer grounds. She drives her dagger in someone's gut and kicks them aside.
John hisses loudly. He's not happy with this turn of events.
The enemy has forced them to retreat to the topmost floor. It doesn't go any higher than this. There are even some surveillance drones hovering outside, almost taunting the remaining Kindred.
John grabs a random bust and hurls it a buzzing drone. The drone is momentarily thrown off balance, but it quickly regains its bearings.
The Assamites are cornered, exhausted (or on the way to getting there), wounded (some more severely than others), and they can only keep going for so long.
As it is, they had to be very cautious when channeling Vitae into their Disciplines. Without an immediate source of blood, they either have to rely on their preternatural strength, stealth, and speed.
Svetlana has barely made use of her Obfuscate Discipline, as has Samir.
This topmost floor appears to be some kind of a large luxury conference hall of some kind. The furniture is nice, and there is even a well-stocked bar. The room is barely illuminated, and the electric lamps and candles have already given out.
There is a grand piano in 1 corner of the room. In the middle of the room, a solid marble block is present. It is dark in color. Rusted equipment is seen in the corner.
A few Assamites are still hiding in the shadows. They're waiting for an opportunity to strike.
John leans against this marble block. It feels cold to the touch and has a faint metallic smell to it. He has his katana at the ready. He's not happy with how things have panned out so far.
Svetlana has her daggers out and is crouching behind the bar.
Zeina is trying to reassure the Assamites around her, "Focus! Do not let them take you!" she's got her long dagger in hand, and it's drooling blood. Her clothes are also stained and torn in some places.
Samir sniffs the blood on his poignard and grimaces at how metallic and pungent it smells.
There is only 1 entrance/exit to this room. There are no other ways to leave, and there are no other routes to take. They're trapped.
Is this...it?
Lt. Klein leads the charge. Injured agents are medevac'd. The staked vampires are either destroyed or loaded up into those same vehicles that the agents rode in on.
From all the way up here, an Assamite points to the ground below, "LOOK! LOOK! They are taking some of our people!"
John comes over and sees what all the commotion is about. He growls in anger, "No! No no no no NO! Those bastards!"
Lt. Klein orders a few of her operatives to drive these staked vampires over to the interrogation facility where Aaron Hart is still being held.
"Yishai will be happy. Go. Now," she says with a faint smirk.
Some of the SUVs and unmarked vans pull out and leave the scene, their tires screeching against the asphalt.
The Assamites look on in helpless horror as some of their kind are taken away by the enemy. This is the most painful part of all- to see their own be abducted like this.
Lt. Klein stops to type something on her phone. It's a highly secure and encrypted text message to Yishai, telling him to expect a "good surprise" coming his way.
After she sends the message, Lt. Klein gets on her radio, "Sir? We are about to move up and secure the topmost floor. These beasts have fled there now."
Commander Gallant's deep voice crackles, "Good work, Lieutenant Klein! Good work! I will send a cleanup crew to your location to help out. Over."
"Roger that, sir. Out." Lt. Klein puts her radio back and addresses her troops, "Listen up!"
These juiced-up fascist maniacs gather around and listen intently to their superior's instructions.
Lt. Hilda holds her grenade launcher close to her, "We are about to secure the topmost floor. All of these foul things have fled up there. Once we do that, we'll be able to wrap things up here. There will be no room for mercy. Understood?"
"YES, LIEUTENANT!" they all respond in unison.
A few of them hold flamethrowers, others hold pump shotguns (with incendiary rounds), and others have SMGs.
With their weapons ready, they reload, rile each other up, and get themselves ready to move up to the topmost floor.
The Assamites are still stuck on this topmost floor. The enemy is on their way up here now. The elevator is barely complete and is not functioning, so there's time to plan some kind of an ambush or a counterattack.
John growls in anger, "Dammit! These assholes!" he slams his fist into a wall, making a loud thud sound.
Svetlana winces at that and doesn't say anything. From the corner of her eye, she spots a small, flickering form. It's followed by cute and echoing giggling that sounds like it's coming from a little child.
She doesn't turn her head, but her eyes move. Svetlana spots the Wraith of little Chloe. She's standing near a wall and smiling. Some of her teeth are missing and her smile is full of innocence and cuteness.
"Setlana! Setlana! What is all that on your face? Why are you scared? Setlana! Come play hide and seek with me? Did you find me Barbie yet? Did you find me sweater? I'm feeling cold."
No one else sees this Wraith. No one else but Chloe's Fetter. Svetlana's fearful expression softens as she stares at the ghostly form of the child who was in her care all those years ago.
But her momentary softness is cut short by the harsh reality of the current situation.
John is pacing around, thinking and muttering under his breath. He's a bit on edge.
The Wraith child swooshes closer to Svetlana. Her body phases through John and she giggles, "Hey, I'm...float-ing! Weeee!"
Chloe's Wraith stands behind the bar, holding her arms up as if she's floating on air, and then she giggles a little more.
"Are you fine, Setlana? Do you need doctor? When are mummy and daddy coming back?"
Svetlana's eyes well up and tears of blood begin to fall.
Chloe's Wraith waddles over. She tries to touch her Fetter, but her hand just passes right through, "Why are you sad, Setlana? Why is there red thing coming from your eyes? Do you want to go to hos-pital?"
John turns to face the bar and is shocked when he sees a teary-eyed Svetlana, "Jesus, Svetlana! What the hell's going on?!" he rushes over to his Childe and grabs her by the shoulders.
He gently shakes her and is shocked to see her crying, "Svetlana!"
Little Chloe's Wraith dissipates after a while.
"I am...fine," Svetlana manages to utter as she wipes the sanguine tears from her face.
John can tell that something is wrong. But now isn't the time for this, so he has to let it go for now, "OK. Don't worry. Look at me. Look at me."
Svetlana's green eyes meet her Sire's eyes, and he firmly reassures her, "We WILL get through this, alright?"
They embrace for a few moments and then separate.
Svetlana takes a few deep breaths and then exhales. She closes her eyes and then opens them, "Da. OK. Is fi--fine. Is no issue. I am Banu Haqim, of the Blade of Haqim..."
Her shakiness gives way to resolve, "This can be done. Is not good to run. I will fight. WE will fight...we will Judge them. All."
Zeina overhears this and smirks, "Good. You are strong. You are brave. You are a Judge. Do not lose hope, Svetlana."
John looks out the window and sees the drones hovering around, "These fuckers are relentless."
The drones in question are relaying all of this back to the Unit 8211 headquarters.
Commander Gallant sneers at the live feed and orders some of the analysts and techs to run facial recognition on the vampires, "Let's find out who these animals are, shall we?"
1 of the techs eagerly responds, "Yes, sir! On it!"
Others begin logging into government and private databases, trying to see what they can dig up on these vampires.
Commander Gallant takes a sip from his mug and smacks his lips, "Very good. This, my friends, is where they shall meet their end. B'ezrat HaShem."
He paces around and looks at the various monitors, "This is it. This is our time. God is on our side, and there is nothing these bloodsucking things can do. It's only a matter of time before they're all dead."
"Amen!"
"Am Yisrael Chai!"
Commander Obed softly chuckles and nods, "Yes. Am Yisrael Chai. What we do here, we do for the continued benefit- and survival- of the Jewish nation."
Lt. Veifer strides over and says, "Commander. Lieutenant Klein and her team are moving up to the topmost floor. She's already had a few blank bodies to Yishai for interrogation."
Commander Obed looks at the screen and watches the progress on the field, "Yes. I already know that, Maximillian. You don't have to repeat yourself. Tell me something new."
Lt. Maximillian stifles his growl and firmly salutes, "Yes, sir!" he turns on his heel and goes to hover over some tech who's busy working on some files.
The Commander's aides and subordinates are scurrying around and making sure that everything is in order.
The LVNDR system comes online. Its translucent interface takes up all of the screens. Streams of data rush across the screens in a dizzying flash, and the techies present can barely keep up with its data processing/sorting speed.
Commander Gallant smirks and folds his hands together, "Well, well, well. This is getting interesting, isn't it?"
The servers that house the LVNDR system heat up to an alarming degree, and the techies have to use special fans and cooling devices to make sure that the whole place doesn't go up in smoke.
1 of the analysts softly mumbles, "This fucking AI system is a thing of--of beauty! I just hope that it doesn't replace me, haha."
Some other Unit 8211 operatives are scurrying around and making sure that everything is in order. Lt. Raz taps on her tablet's screen and clicks her tongue when something doesn't seem to be working.
Lt. Davidai silently watches on from a distance. He's waiting for orders.
"FUCK! Those fucking drones! That goddamn buzzing! AAAAAARGH!" John angrily hurls whatever he can get his hands on at those hovering drones that are outside.
The Assamites try their best to avoid the line of sight. Some of them duck behind the piano and other furniture, while others just stay very still and try to look away.
Those who were unfortunate enough to get spotted gasp and wonder if they'll even be able to go to work tomorrow night.
Some of the Judges are starting to get worried. Their minds race as they desperately try to figure out a way to escape this. Jumping at this height would snap their undead bones and send them into a Torpor.
The door to the stairwell is blown off its hinges and thrown across the room.
Lt. Klein fires off another grenade from her launcher. A big explosion sends bits of wood and glass flying in all directions, and the air is filled with the sounds of panicked screams.
Svetlana, Zeina, and some other Banu Haqim take cover.
John screams out, "Showtime! Kill 'em all! Judge 'em all! No mercy...and don't expect any of it return!"
A hail of gunfire gushes into the room and forces the vampires to stay in whatever cover they're behind.
Most of them have the presence of mind to activate their Obfuscate. John activates his Celerity and blinks around. He dodges most of the incoming fire and cuts down a few operators who get too close.
Svetlana and Samir activate their Obfuscate, and their forms blur. Samir melds with the shadows and his form becomes almost impossible to see. Some of the other vampires also shimmer away.
A few Assamites aren't so lucky and get hit by a few stray shots. 1 of the vampires gets shot right in the chest and hisses in pain. She curses in her native tongue and leans against a wall for support while her wounds close themselves shut.
1 of the nimbler Assamites uses his Celerity and jumps onto the ceiling, like a spider, and starts crawling around. The bullets pierce the plaster and cause dust and bits to come down.
Samir uses his Obfuscate to hide himself, and a shadowy form slowly pads along the ground like a panther of sorts. When he gets closer to a foe, shadowy tentacles erupt from his body and wrap around their throats, breaking their necks. His claws slash their abdomens open.
A flamethrower-wielder sprays a jet of flame onto the ceiling but fails to light up the crawling Assamite. The agile Kindred jumps down and rushes the enemy, tearing his throat out.
He drops the thug and moves on to another target. 1 down, many more to go.
Another volley of increasingly frantic gunfire fills the room and pierces a few unlucky vampires, who scream out in pain. Whitey-p shotty shells either finish them off or scare them into jumping behind a solid object. They hiss and bare their fangs.
The smell of blood and gunpowder makes the Beast rage. They want to tear these specks of human dust apart. The smell of blood makes the Beast want to come out and play.
The Beast hates being denied all this fresh, juicy, and yummy blood. But John knows that drinking from these maniacs has...side effects. He knows it all too darn well.
Lt. Klein reloads her grenade launcher with a steady hand. She gulps and calmy takes aim, "Don't worry. I'll get this over with soon, you monsters."
She inhales, holds her breath, smoothly exhales, fires and sends another grenade flying. It explodes in a brilliant flash of fire, causing the nearby walls to crumble and the furniture to splinter and crack.
Some of the Assamites are thrown back. Their skin is seared.
John uses his Celerity Discipline and blinks over to Lt. Klein. A flamethrower-wielder spots this blur and squeezes of a blast of flames. John barely has time to duck and roll, but he does. He hisses and shows his pointy fangs.
His furious eyes fixate on the offender, and he snarls in anger as he rushes towards them, slicing their torso in half. The legs drop to the floor with a wet squelching sound. Their entrails slide out of the upper portion.
A bit of blood and gore splashes onto the floor as well.
An operator shoots a vampire with an incendiary round, which blows a hole into their torso and burns them badly.
Svetlana gasps and bolts forward. She leaps on that operative and repeatedly drives both of her daggers into his body, and she snarls viciously at him. He's unable to fight back and collapses onto the floor in a pool of blood, brain matter, and gore.
"Fallback! Fallback!" a desperate agent cries out. They're not used to fighting against such indefatigable opponents. Not like this. These Israeli soldiers usually like hurting kids and defenseless people.
They had been briefed and trained on how to deal with these types of situations but seeing it all unfold before their eyes is a different story altogether.
Lt. Klein growls at the agent calling for a fallback. She drags that agent to a corner and threatens, "If you fallback, I will shoot you myself. Pull your shit together and GO BACK OUT THERE!" she shoves the agent aside and unholsters her pistol.
She pulls the trigger and the barrel spits out hot AP lead at the advancing vampires. Her finger doesn't stop squeezing the trigger as she backs up to safer grounds. Her eyes are filled with hate and righteous fury.
The Raider of Ramallah is not about to let these "monsters" best her.
The other agents are in a state of shock. They're not used to this level of combat in such close quarters- right now, they'd much rather be in Gaza or the West Bank, roughing up old people and kneecapping teenagers.
A few desperate and injured Banu Haqim continue to fight as best as they can. Whether it's claws, poignards, daggers, katanas, or fists, they're fighting as if their Unlives depend on it. Because they do.
They will not give up. They will not surrender.
John's katana makes quick work of a few nearby enemies. Their heads come clean off, and their blood splatters all over the ceiling above.
Zeina avoids getting impaled in the chest by some stakes. She responds by driving her dagger through the agent's stomach, and then she slashes their face with her claws. Blood gushes and splatters everywhere.
Lt. Klein remains in cover. Seeing her operators having the proverbial tables being turned on them has rattled her a little. Her hand is shaking. Her face is red. And her heart is pumping furiously. She's never seen anything like this.
Back in the West Bank, it was always easy for her. She'd kick a few doors down, flash her gun at some crying toddlers, slap some cuffs on men accused of being "terrorists," and drag them off to some detention center.
All the while, she'd have a look of satisfaction on her face. For her, doing war crimes and crimes against peace was all a way to alleviate boredom.
Yet here she is now, amidst the carnage. Feeling excited, dirtbag?
"Grrrfghrg!!" she growls in frustration and aims her grenade launcher at the nearest cluster of vampires. Before she squeezes the trigger, John's foot slams into her stomach.
The lieutenant drops her weapon and slides a few feet. She looks up and sees John looming over her. She quickly tries to get up, but a swift kick to the head knocks her down.
She rolls to the side and pulls out a compact wooden stake. She readies her pistol in her other hand and fires a few rounds at John. He uses his Celerity to move faster, and he blinks away before any of the bullets can strike him.
John rushes towards the lieutenant and hisses at her. Lt. Klein readies her stake, and the 2 lock eyes. They're both sizing each other up. Neither is willing to give in or concede.
John charges at the lieutenant and swings his katana, forcing her to dodge.
She taunts the Assamite, "You're the one they call John Suarez?"
"You know my name. Good, because it's the last fucking thing you're going to hear, you goddamn Israeli lunatic!"
Lt. Klein fires 2 more shots, but they just are effortlessly dodged.
She glowers at him, "You move too fast. How is it a fair fight?"
John claps back, "What the hell does a goon like you know about fair? You kill kids for sport and steal people's land. Fuck you!"
The 2 engage in a fierce exchange of blows, and neither one of them can land a hit.
The Assamite's katana comes close to chopping the lieutenant's arm off, but she manages to roll away and keep a safe distance.
John is fast. He's also strong and skilled. But Lt. Klein is not going to go down without a fight.
She keeps her stake ready, and when she thinks John is about to make a move, she rushes him, aiming her stake in the general direction of his chest.
The piece of wood almost goes through this time, but John steps back and lightly gasps. Lt. Klein can't let her guard down. She rushes her foe again and swings her stake, hoping to end the battle.
Svetlana and Samir each utilize their Obfuscate to pick off a few stragglers. Zeina takes out a flamethrower operative and throws his corpse out of the window with a swift kick.
The air is thick with the stench of blood, burnt flesh, and gunpowder.
The other Assamites rush the riot armor thugs. They dodge the hail of white phosphorous rounds and savagely tear the soldiers apart.
Some of the Assamites take advantage of the confusion and manage to get behind the enemy lines, killing them with their claws, basic knives, or whatever weapons they can get their hands on.
A random Assassin grabs a nearby silver fork and stabs someone in the head till their brains literally ooze out.
1 of the Inquisitors gets his throat slashed open by a vampire and falls down, clutching her throat. Blood pours out of the deep wound. Her arms flail about, but she is quickly put out of her misery by a knife being deeply plunged into her stomach and twisted like a screwdriver.
An Assamite picks up a pump shotgun and pumps a few shells into an enemy, causing their guts to splatter everywhere.
Lt. Raz's voice crackles through the radio of an injured operative, "Status report?"
The injured operative cries out, "We're getting our asses handed to us! Send--" his cries are cut off when he is decapitated and tossed out of the window.
(It's raining dead and mangled fascists).
The pump shotgun-wielding Assamite is then riddled with bullets, and his body twitches violently before hitting the floor. His body spasms as the wounds begin to mend themselves, but it's a struggle.
1 of the Judges grabs a flamethrower-wielder, twists her arm, and forces the barrel into the chest of another nearby thug, who is lit up. The agent caught on fire tries to escape, but a sword is thrust through his chest.
His body goes limp, and the vampire throws him aside.
Commander Gallant watches whatever the drones can relay back to HQ. His face is contorted into a sneer. He has already ordered the dispatching of reinforcements, but there's not enough of them to go around.
This isn't the only fight.
All over the city, other Assamites are engaging Unit 8211 soldiers. They're doing a damn good job at keeping them split up and busy.
An analyst in the HQ remarks, "Damn! This isn't going well. I think we should fallback. We're not going to win this!"
Commander Gallant glowers at the analyst and orders them sternly, "Shut up, keep your head down, and get back to aiding your fellow soldiers."
"But...s--sir, this is not going well at all. These...things are killing our guys, and there's nothing we can do to stop them."
Commander Gallant tightly grabs the back of their head. Through gritted teeth, he says, "I said, SHUT UP and get back to aiding your fellow soldiers. We need every available asset focused on defeating these monsters. Now, do as I say!"
He releases the analyst and shoves them back to their glowing screen.
Commander Gallant has made up his mind. He is going to destroy the monsters. Whatever it takes. He will not let this be a defeat.
A vampire is struck with a bullet, but they barely react and just keep going.
Samir joins the fight against Lt. Klein. He feints and then swipes her across the back.
The lieutenant hisses in pain and swings her stake wildly, hoping to get lucky.
Zeina joins Samir, and the 3 try their best to beat the lieutenant down.
Lt. Klein's eyes dart over to the grenade launcher. She could dive for it and make a big mess, or she could stand her ground.
She's not sure what to do, but her heart is beating fast. She has to make a decision, or else she might get killed. She makes a dive for it.
Heh.
John twirls his katana stylishly. He blinks behind Lt. Klein and slashes her across the back. Samir follows it up by stabbing her lower back. He twists his poignard and then pulls it out.
"AAARRGGHHH!!!" Lt. Klein screams in pain and falls to her knees. She drops her pistol and tries to pull out her stake, but John kicks her in the ribs.
She falls on her back in a thud. She's lost all feeling in her legs. Her arms flail about and a pool of blood slowly begins to spread.
Zeina smirks and walks over to the paralyzed lieutenant. She kicks the stake away and places her foot on the lieutenant's neck. She applies pressure and starts crushing her throat.
Lt. Klein gasps and wheezes, "This is--isn't--over..."
John gets Zeina off of the lieutenant. The latter looks at him cluelessly.
Svetlana makes quick work of the last 2 operators. She dodges punches and strikes back, slitting their throats with her daggers and tossing their bodies to the side.
Blood and gore paint the room red.
Svetlana turns around and sees Samir, John, and Zeina, looking at her.
Phew. A silent sigh of relief is felt around the room.
The Banu Haqim look amongst each other and nod, acknowledging their mutual victory.
But the night is not yet over.
John carries Lt. Klein in his arms and puts her on that cold marble block. She's completely immobilized from the waist down. All she can do is look on helplessly and mutter a few curse words in Hebrew.
But those come out more like the choked sounds of a person whose fate is inevitable.
"Now, for the final show. This is it. We're about to end her miserable, disgusting, pathetic life," John announces.
Samir, Zeina, Svetlana, and the others form a circle around the lieutenant.
Zeina walks over and grabs the lieutenant by the chin, but John grabs her wrist, "No, Zeina. Stop. Wait."
He looks at his Childe and nods her forward. Svetlana takes a tentative step forward.
Lt. Klein looks up at the circle of vampires who have gathered around her. Her heart beats faster. She's afraid, so very afraid.
Good. She should be.
She asks herself what these monsters will do to her now that she is completely at their "mercy".
She is at the mercy of the Angels of Caine.
John looks at his fellow Assamites and pauses for a moment, "You know what the Blade of Haqim is, right?"
Heads nodding all around.
"You know why we were created, what we stand for, and what our purpose is?"
Once again, the heads of the gathered Kindred nod.
John continues, "You know what the Blade represents and how important it is. Look at her. Think of all the horrific things that she's done to find a place in an elite Israeli force, probably the most brutal one out there."
There is silence in the room. No one speaks a word.
"God only knows what this bitch has done back in Palestine. Now, it's time to Judge her. Svetlana Bobrov, please come forward."
Svetlana pulls out her ceramic dagger and has a look at the lieutenant's face. Her lips curl into a sneer of disgust.
The lieutenant tries to move, but she can't. Her fingers and toes twitch, but that's all.
Svetlana raises the ceramic dagger high up in the air. All the eyes look up at the blade.
The Banu Haqim Neonate, the Childe of John utters those 4 familiar words, "The Blade Judges you." She swiftly drives the dagger into the lieutenant's chest.
She screams in pain, and a stream of blood erupts from the wound.
All the Banu Haqim pull away and watch as the life leaves Lt. Klein's body. She chokes, gasps, curses, and tries to fight it, but the death blow has been struck.
After the body stops twitching, Svetlana removes the dagger and takes a few steps back. She has a solemn look on her face. Her chin is raised slightly.
Lt. Klein's face is one of shock. Her mouth is slightly ajar, and her eyes are wide. A few trickles of blood trail from the corner of her mouth and run down her cheek.
Zeina walks up to the corpse and growls at the body, "This is for all the martyrs! Kalb (AR: dog)."
Samir walks up and snarls, "A curse upon you!"
The other Assamites say some stuff in Arabic. Some of it is a prayer, some is a curse, and some is just a good ol' fashioned "Fuck you!"
John finally looks down on Lt. Hilda Klein's dead body. He sighs and simply says, "Free Palestine."
The drones that are still buzzing about capture most of what just went down.
John walks up to the drone and promises whoever's watching, "You're next, assholes. We're not the helpless little children you routinely kill, we're not incapable of fighting back, biting back, even. And we're done taking shit from you psychos."
He wipes some blood from his katana, "This is for every Palestinian human being that has been brutalized by you maniacs. Get ready, cuz you're next. Free Palestine." He flips the camera off and walks away.
He and the others prepare to head out. The drones are immediately ordered back. Before leaving, the Assamites salvage the dead bodies for SD cards or anything else that might be of use.
John pockets the SD cards from Lt. Hilda Klein's phones; there's bound to be something interesting in there.
Lieutenant Hilda Klein- the Raider of Ramallah- is no more. She has been Judged by Svetlana Bobrov, Childe of John Suarez, Childe of Fatima Ibn Rashid of the Banu Haqim Clan, of the Blade of Haqim.
Commander Gallant overturns a table and cries out in maddening frustration. This IS the first time that he has lost someone under his direct command, and he's not taking it very well.
He is determined to crush the Kindred and put them down. He's panting and heaving like an angry bull.
Lt. Raz looks at the footage that was captured by the drones. It is all sent directly to her tablet. Her eyes are glued to the screen.
Lt. Davidai stands in the corner and keeps his head down.
Lt. Veifer breaks the deafening silence, "Commander Gallant..."
The Commander blankly stares at the floor and doesn't respond.
"Obed..." Lt. Raz shakily says. She's trying to hold it together, but her voice betrays her.
Commander Obed slowly looks up at his 3 remaining lieutenants. He can see that there are tears in Lt. Davidai's eyes.
"What?" he asks, "What is it?"
Lt. Veifer steps closer and lifts his chin, "With your permission, Commander, I would like to take a squad and pursue them."
Commander Gallant shakes his head, "Denied. We are already suffering losses. Order any field units to fallback."
Lt. Raz pipes up, "But sir--"
Commander Gallant screams at the top of his lungs, "ORDER A FULL WITHDRAWAL BEFORE WE LOSE ANOTHER ONE OF AM YISRAEL'S BRAVE MEN AND WOMEN! I AM NOT GOING TO LET ANOTHER ONE OF MY PEOPLE DIE IN VAIN! GO!"
Lt. Davidai's lower lip quivers, and he walks out of the room. Lt. Raz bows her head curtly and exits.
Lt. Veifer remains where he is, as still as a statue. He's got his chest puffed out and his hands are behind his back.
As soon as the door is closed, the Commander sits down and sighs heavily. He looks around and notices Lt. Veifer, "Are you still here? I thought I told you to get moving."
"Sir, with all due respect, if I may, I want to avenge Lieutenant Klein. She was my friend."
Commander Gallant sharply exhales, "I am now putting you in charge of field operations. It was Hilda's specialty, but...but I'm giving it to you. Now, do your job and carry out the orders. Do not disobey me, or there will be consequences. Do I make myself clear?"
Lt. Veifer firmly salutes his superior officer, "Sir, yes, sir! I will not let you down. We will get the terrorist scum who did this."
The Commander sighs deeply and lazily waves his hand, "Dismissed. Go."
Lt. Veifer gives him another firm salute and marches out of the office.
His eyes are filled with pure hatred. He is not about to give up, and he is not about to forget this night. Still, a subtle smirk does dance on his face. He's got a promotion, and he's going to milk it for all it's worth.
He's now the field ops leader with full power, authority, and clearance to dispatch, lead, and command the various ground assets and forces at Unit 8211's disposal.
He's got a lot of work ahead. He can't wait to get stuck in.
The rest of the night is not quite so easy for these specks of human dust.
Lt. Raz tells Commander Gallant, "I have informed the Israeli High Command of Lieutenant Klein's death. Lieutenant Davidai is currently coordinating a fallback strategy. Emirati police have been sighted in some areas, sir."
Commander Obed snarls and glowers daggers at Lt. Raz. She quickly ducks out and goes back to damage control.
He is still in shock and disbelief. The footage that he saw was unbelievable. He had watched the whole thing go down. He saw his people getting decimated.
Lt. Raz pops back in, "Sir, the ILHC wants to have a chat. Also, some of our forces have had no choice but to engage the Emirati police. We're not sure how many casualties we've suffered."
Commander Gallant grunts, "Hmph. Let me speak with the ILHC. Tell our forces to keep a low profile. Handle the fallout, it's what you're good at, Liora."
She smiles at him and bows her head, "I'll do my best, sir."
"No, you'll do your best and beyond that. I believe in you, so don't let me down."
Lt. Raz acknowledges that with a barely audible grunt.
Commander Gallant logs on to the secure and encrypted chat session. He enters his credentials, says some authentication phrases, and waits.
ILHC: "Greetings, Commander Gallant. Let us skip the formalities and get right down to business. We have received word that Lieutenant Hilda Klein was killed just mere moments ago."
OBED: "Yes. That is what has happened. We underestimated the blank bodies- we thought that we had them cornered and defeated. Sadly, I was wrong. And Lieutenant Klein paid the ultimate price. I was not expecting their savage and beastly retaliation."
ILHC: "We were not either. We are still trying to process this new development. The Israeli Ministry Of Defense has already been made aware of this troubling new development. They will want answers, as will others."
OBED: "It is understandable."
ILHC: "Indeed. You are responsible for this incident. Your forces attacked the blank bodies. What exactly went wrong down there? Were the incendiary weapons not sufficient? Were your soldiers not on the CEDP regimen? Were your tactics flawed? Please, tell us, what happened?"
OBED: "Our equipment and tactics are adequate. However, even I could not have foreseen such barbaric ferocity. I was caught off guard. I sincerely apologize for that, and I know that you and your superiors are not happy about what has transpired tonight."
ILHC: "Apologies can only go so far. And please refrain from telling us about how you will be saying the Kaddish for those who were killed tonight. We demand results, not gestures of grief."
OBED: "I understand. I would like to take this opportunity to inform you that Lieutenant Maximillian Veifer will now be leading field operations going forward. His expertise in explosives will also come in handy. Of that I have no doubt."
ILHC: "Very well. How you lead the brave men and women under your command is entirely up to you. However, let us not forget about the consequences, Commander Gallant. You are fully responsible for whatever happens from here on out. We hope that you can manage."
OBED: "Understood. I can. B'ezrat HaShem, I will. Even if it is the last thing I do, I will not rest until the blank bodies have been put down. This, I promise."
ILHC: "We sincerely hope that you will honor this promise. Do not let us down, Commander Gallant. Do not fail your country and your people. Do not fail the only safe place for Jews in the entire world."
OBED: "As God is my witness, I will not. Thank you. You have been a great help and a pillar of strength. I will not forget that."
ILHC: "Good luck, Commander Gallant. Please, tell your people to take some time to mourn Lt. Klein. Remind them of the evil you're up against."
OBED: "I will have my remaining Lieutenants organize something small and tasteful. Something that honors her service to Am Yisrael."
ILHC: "How is the LVNDR system faring? Lt. Veifer's recent reports mentioned a spike in power consumption. This is nothing to worry about, of course. We just want to know how you're working with it."
OBED: "Ah, yes. The LVNDR system is doing just fine. It has exceeded my expectations. I was skeptical at first but seeing it in action...it's nothing short of a miracle. The speed at which it processes and collates data into actionable intel is nothing short of marvelous!"
ILHC: "You should be proud, Commander Gallant. It is Israeli ingenuity at its finest. All those high IQs being put to good use. Not everyone gets to use such a powerful piece of technology, let alone see it up-close."
OBED: "It is moments like these where I am most thankful to God for making me a Jew. I am grateful and humbled by the opportunity to work alongside such brilliant and talented individuals."
ILHC: "Excellent. Keep it up. The IMOD has requested a meeting. We will speak to them on your behalf, don't worry. Please, try and recover Lt. Klein's body. She deserves a proper burial, as does whoever else might have fallen tonight."
OBED: "I understand. And thank you. This means a lot."
ILHC: "You are most welcome, Commander Gallant. We must be going now. May the Almighty bless and guide you. Shalom."
OBED: "Shalom. I will keep you updated on any further developments."
Commander Gallant leans back on his chair and takes a moment to compose himself. While he's rubbing his face, the chat messages begin to automatically delete themselves.
In reality, every single chat message is backed up on a secure server somewhere in a data center in Tel Aviv. Commander Gallant thinks that the messages auto-delete as part of some OPSEC measure, but this vile man is just the tool of someone else in the grand scheme of things.
He's still trying to process the fact that Lt. Klein is no longer amongst the living.
There are many questions running through his head. Was it her time? What were her last moments like? Agonizing? Painful? What will become of her family now that she's dead?
So many questions, and so few answers.
But he has his own questions, the main one being: how is HE going to deal with the aftermath?
The Unit 8211 troops have already shot and killed a few members of the Al-Kushraf Police Force while the order to fall back came in.
That will not bode well in the nights to come. Lt. Raz already suggests a few cover stories to have some plants within the media offices and the local news outlets to start running with.
A narrative of increased non-terrorist-related gang violence and crime is what they're deciding to run with. It's the easiest thing to blame, all things considered.
Lt. Liora Raz is hard at work, leaning on certain people in media circles, blackmailing some with good ol' fashioned kompromat, and even threatening the families and loved ones of certain journalists if they even think about doing anything "funny".
Lt. Raz's efforts are successful, and the narrative of the "new" gang problem is slowly getting traction.
She goes low and threatens to out someone as a homosexual (she has "evidence") unless they write a piece that emphasizes how the violence is the fault of local street gangs.
And her threats and intimidations have worked. The narrative of the new "gangs" is slowly starting to take root. Fear and panic worm their ways into people's minds.
The morning papers will be nothing short of...rubbish, for lack of a better term.
Far from the Unit 8211 Command Center...
A few people are sweeping the courtyard with metal detectors. They look like professionals. The hedge grass around the courtyard has been recently trimmed, and there are a few trees planted here and there.
A few men in dark suits are standing in the shade. 1 of them is holding a tablet and has a stern expression on his face.
It's a long and dark-gray structure that stretches far across the entire block, with a few balconies and such jutting out.
There are a couple of black Mercedes-Benz cars parked nearby, and a couple of other luxury vehicles are parked on the side.
Sebastian Gorsky, the Toreador Primogen, has his Haven on the 7th floor of this apartment building.
His space is large, well-furnished, and pretentiously fashionable. The furniture is sleek and modern. He has a large painting of a fair-skinned woman hanging on his living room wall.
She has long platinum-blonde hair, piercing blue eyes, and a sharp and defined face.
The Toreador's Haven is large, spacious, and dimly lit on the inside. Some soft music plays on loop from wall-mounted speakers.
The curtains are drawn shut, and a few more pieces of art adorn the walls. There are a few people sitting on a couch, talking to each other.
In the apartment's hallway, people in gray suits guard the Primogen's Haven. They look muscular and have pistols tucked into their belts.
Sebastian himself is dressed in a casual yet stylish outfit- a polo neck, a dark pair of limited-edition jeans, and a black leather jacket. His man-bun is done up stylishly with chopsticks.
The Toreador has a drink of blood in his hand and is speaking to a group of people, "Look, look, look, look. Gia Carangi might've been 'it'. But at the end of the night, she was still a fucking wop."
Geez Louise, he really does like throwing around those antiquated racial slurs.
A few of Seb's fellow fashionistas laugh along in full agreement. They take a sip of the blood from their glasses and smack their lips at how delightful it is.
Some of his guests are not laughing- they start looking around awkwardly, preferably at the front door.
"Come on, Seb," says a man wearing eyeliner, "That's too far!"
Sebastian dismissively waves his hands, "Yeah, yeah. My point still stands, OK? I knew a lotta people who booked that bitch back then. I remember a lotta people saying that she was gonna be the next big thing. Well, guess what happened to her? Huh? Go ahead, guess."
The man with the eyeliner says, "We're not stupid, Seb. I wanted to attend her funeral, but my Sire wouldn't let me. Tch."
A well-endowed woman in a satin yellow dress speaks up, "Gia practically pioneered the heroin chic look. In retrospect, it must've been pretty hard to keep her head above water."
Sebastian snaps his fingers and points at her, "Exactly! Exactly! She had it all. The looks, the face, the attitude, but mainly the looks. But she was still a fucking wop!"
Eyeliner guy winces uncomfortably and shifts in his seat, "Can you, like, stop saying that? It's not the early 1900s anymore, man."
An older gentleman in a flashy red suit gesticulates, "Sebastian, darling, we are all very familiar with your distaste for...certain ethnic groups, and frankly, I find it rather distasteful. But the world is changing, dear, and we- at the very least- have to change with it."
Seb claps back at his fellow Artisan, "The fuck for? Since when did YOU get so PC, Gorman? Huh? Since when did YOU give a shit about the 'ethnic minorities' and 'diversity' and all that bullshit?"
Gorman plainly shrugs, "Times are changing, honey. And please, don't bring up what I think you're going to bring up. Even Helene here thinks it's too far and she votes conservative. She even gives them money, disturbingly large sums of it."
Sebastian growls a little, "What?! Phrenology IS a valid field of scientific inquiry!"
The lady in the yellow satin dress forces a smile and straightens her back. She can feel a lot of eyes on her ample cleavage.
A few other Kindred in the room snicker and murmur a little bit.
"OK," Seb sets his glass aside, "How about this, then? Why do you think that black people are dumb and violent all the time? The skulls tell the stories, but scientists are too damn pussy to acknowledge this."
The man wearing eyeliner springs up from his seat and dusts himself off, "OK. I think I've heard enough. I'm going out for a smoke. Anyone who wishes to join me on the balcony may do so."
Gorman chuckles and shakes his head, "I'll pass. I'm allergic to tobacco, doll. And I don't want to smell like a chimney. Besides, smoking doesn't do diddly squat seeing that we're already...y'know, corpses."
Mr. eyeliner clicks his tongue and waltzes out onto the balcony, with a few others trailing behind him.
The older gentleman in the flashy red suit and the lady in the satin yellow dress stay put.
Sebastian sighs heavily and wiggles his hips. He takes another drink of blood and smacks his lips.
He looks down and checks his phone for the 4th time since the conversation started.
He's still waiting on a call.
Satin dress lady queries, "Expecting more visitors to this little impromptu, last-minute gathering of yours, Sebastian?"
Sebastian shrugs.
"I thought as much," she adds, "But then again, I know a few people who would kill to be here. This place is truly beautiful. Wouldn't you say, Gorman?"
Gorman lightly shakes his head, "Eh. It feels so...meh. Mediocre. Sorry, darling. It's just that after a 100 years of existence, I've grown a bit...blasé, if you will. I'm a bit bored with it all, I guess."
Sebastian glares at him, "I'll remember that next time I invite you to 1 of my parties. Not."
Gorman lifts his chin and gestures around, "This place has no character. No flair. It's all so boring. So vanilla. So pedestrian. It's just not doing it for me. Even Tzimisce flesh furniture brings me...some excitement."
Sebastian huffs a sigh and pinches the bridge of his nose, "You're just mad that your own Sire never gave you anything but his limp, flaccid dick. He didn't love you. Face it, Gorman. You're a second-rate Toreador."
Gorman laughs that off and waves his hand in a flourish, "Now, now, darling. There's absolutely no need to stoop so low. What my Sire and I had was...special. It was something. However, we did grow weary of each other as the decades dragged on."
He wistfully continues, "Still, we did have a bond, we shared something--"
Sebastian sneers, "Like AIDS?"
The man in the red suit shoots a glance at him and gasps, "That's not funny, Sebastian! Some of my Ghouls died of it back in the US. Other close friends of mine--"
Sebastian is not amused, "Well, tell them to stay the fuck away from me. Helene, what's up? Still flashing those around, huh?" he nods over to her breasts.
"Well," Helene replies, "Some things never change while some things have to remain the same. I have to keep them nice and fresh, if you know what I mean. It's important to look good, isn't it?"
Gorman asks Helene, "Can't you just get those implants like normal people do? I don't see why you have to go to a Tzimisce Flesh-Crafter for your--your--" he wordlessly gestures to her chest.
"Because it's my damn money," Helene proudly replies, "And you know that only a Tzimisce is capable of achieving the results that I'm looking for. Besides, I need a bit more oomph, if you catch my drift."
Gorman's eyebrows shoot up, "I don't catch your drift. That's not my area of expertise. Not at all, not even in the slightest."
Helene scoffs, "Oh, please. Like you don't get down and dirty with some of those oiled up bodybuilders every now and then."
Sebastian grins a little and nods.
Gorman simply shrugs, "So what? It's not like I owe YOU an explanation, Helene. They're just, y'know, a fun way to spend an evening. Or 2. Unlike those younger...interns of yours."
Helene's grin turns into a full-on smirk, "Oh, but those young ones are so...passionate and energetic, like stallions. Their youthful vigor is something I've found to be quite refreshing. It makes me feel like I'm 20 all over again."
Gorman glares at her with a twisted expression.
"Oh, please," Helene giggles, "Like you haven't done that, yourself. My underlings enjoy it. And I've told them not to be so afraid. After all, there's nothing wrong with a little bit of fun. And fangs. And claws across a bare back."
Sebastian interjects, "Jesus. Anyway, when's your return flight, Helene?"
Helene checks her watch, "I have time. I just have to make some last-minute...'sleeping' arrangements and I'm all set. I'll be going to Kuwait for a summit. After that, I have some Clan-related matters to see to in Oman."
She stops for a drink of blood from her glass and then continues, "After some shopping, I'll have to go check up on my holdings in Qatar. Oh, and before I forget, my condolences, Sebastian."
The Toreador Primogen holds his finger up and warns her, "Don't you even fucking mention it, OK?"
Gorman chuckles, "An Assamite slapped you after you..." he mimes a gasp, "...saw a black woman and called her something rather vulgar."
"Shut up," Seb growls.
Gorman shrugs, "I mean, it is what it is, Seb darling. You can't deny reality, y'know. Fuck around, find out. Chat shit, get hit. The kids these nights come up with all sorts of amazing phrases."
Sebastian is unamused, "Do you wanna die a 2nd time? Because I can make that happen."
Helene giggles a little bit, "You're such a drama queen. You can barely make a fashion show happen. Your last designs were horrendous. Honestly, it's a miracle that you even have any followers after your last flop."
Sebastian sneers, "It's called having connections. It's about knowing the right people in the game. And it's about having the right pieces of meat to advertise your designs, like the ones on that couch right over there."
He indifferently motions to a couch where a bunch of young and VERY skinny women are lounging. They're dressed in skimpy outfits and they look...high.
"Ah," Helene comments, "And those 'right people' that you mentioned...do they even have a pulse?"
Gorman looks at them, "My, my, my. Someone give them a turkey sandwich...or 4! Sweet baby J. I can...good lord! Is--is that her ribcage? Oh, for god's sake! You can practically see her bones sticking out!"
Sebastian rolls his eyes, "OK, first of all, they're my fucking models, not my food. I separate the 2 because of...certain 'accidents'. And, in case you 2 haven't noticed, but skinny is back in vogue. It's always been. Skinny and dead is where it's at right now."
Helene and Gorman scoff in disapproval.
Sebastian shrugs, "Don't believe me? Check the Internet. It's trending. Unlike you 2 dinosaurs, I actually do know how to use a goddamn computer."
Gorman scoffs and sips some more blood from his glass, "Yes, well, whatever helps you sleep better when the sun's up, honey."
Helene adjusts her hair and checks her watch.
The doorbell rings.
"Finally," Seb remarks and goes over to the intercom with a rush in his step. He almost trips over his own feet.
He presses the button and answers it, "Yes?"
A deep voice comes in, "Mr. Gorsky. I have a Seth Steale to see you. Should I let him in or tell him to leave?"
Seb cracks a smile, "Let him in. Is he with anyone?"
The voice on the other side replies, "No, sir. It's just him."
"Excellent," Seb beams, "Send him in. Let me know if there's anyone else coming. If there are, let me know beforehand."
"Affirmative," the voice dryly responds.
What's the High Priest doing here?
The atmosphere in Seb's Haven is...calm, complacent, and superficial. The Aesthetes present don't have much of a care in the world and they reek of pretentiousness.
A far cry from the desperate souls valiantly fighting against the enemy and struggling to make it through another night- a lot of the Assamites who fought tonight have work tomorrow night.
Seth is ushered in and guided by some of Sebastian's people to the latter's living room. Some of the young women are in a drug-fueled haze and can barely stay awake. 1 of them almost falls out of her seat.
The Setite High Priest is dressed in a fulvous turtleneck, dark-ish corduroy pants, and brown moccasins. Like always, he has his trademark snake-head cane with its piercing emerald eyes.
He is calm. The magical cane is for partly for show, partly for utility. Partly to intimidate, to show authority, to be intimidating.
But it's mostly for show, of course. A status symbol, so to speak. Or at least a marker that indicates his station and position as a devoted Follower of Set.
Seb grins as he guides his guest to where Gorman and Helene are. The High Priest takes the seat that the eyeliner fella was sitting in earlier. Seb sits across from him.
The ladies (mortal, presumably) on the couch are either dazed and nodding off or in the middle of an argument about who's "it". Gorman and Helene have their heads turned to where the noise is coming from.
Gorman regards Seth, his eyes going up and down. He squints, "The fit is just not doing it for me." He nods in Seth's direction, "Hm. Yes. Anyway, how are you keeping, darling?"
Helene regards Seth, her eyes also running up and down. She extends her cold hand, "Helene. I'm just passing through."
Seth shakes her hand and nods back, "Pleasure. Seth Steale, Ministry High Priest." His eyes are unflinching and piercing as always, with not much emotion present on his face.
The snake-head cane is placed on his lap, but not in a threatening manner.
Helene remarks, "Ah. The Clan of Faith, hmm? I don't get along with your kind very well. No offense." She takes a drink from her glass.
Seth's eyes glance at her drink for a moment, then look back up to meet hers. "None taken." It's a small gesture. His words are non-threatening, yet he still seems so...at ease.
Gorman leans closer, "Turtlenecks, Seth, are so 2007. So Steve Jobs, so the Apple store at the Palm Springs Mall. Not really my style. It's...meh. Vanilla. Uninspired. Lacking in boldness."
He holds his head high, "My, my, my."
Seth chuckles lightly, "I'll be sure to keep that in mind, Mr. Gorman. Any...recommendations?"
Gorman waggles a finger, "Skinny jeans and polo shirts with a popped collar. The lighter colors would suit those intensely piercing amber eyes of yours, doll."
"I'll be sure to keep that in mind," Seth replies with a fake and forced smile on his face. He adjusts himself in the chair, trying to get comfortable.
His hand brushes against the cane. He makes sure that his facial expression doesn't give anything away.
The Toreador Primogen snaps his fingers and orders a baggy-eyed woman in her 30s to bring a "drink" for the esteemed Viper. She briskly returns with a tray in her hands, bearing 1 wine glass.
"It's freshly drawn," Seb offers, a knowing smirk dancing on the corners of his mouth.
"It's always freshly drawn," the baggy-eyed woman chides. Her gaze lingers on the snake-head cane's emerald eyes for a few seconds, then it flits back to the Primogen.
Seth takes the glass of blood and brings it up to his nose to sniff at it. It smells...salty, with a mix of some drugs. The High Priest brings the rim up to his lips.
Sebastian goes back to what he was talking about, "So, like I was saying: skinny. That's the stuff now. That's how it's gonna be for the foreseeable fucking future. It's always been like that, if you ask me."
He adds, "Fuck the haters. So what if my last thing flopped? The next one's gonna be my epic comeback, just you wait." His tone reeks of the desperation of a wannabe.
Gorman's expression darkens a bit, "And what of the...incident?"
Sebastian clicks his tongue, "I got a Lasombra lawyer named Titus- he's the best in the business. If that Slavic bimbo bitch tries anything else, I'll have him--"
Seth interjects by clearing his tongue, "Mr. Gorsky. A word, please. In private."
The Epicurean sighs deeply and stands up, "Fine. Let's take it to the balcony. C'mon."
Seth quickly gulps the remainder of the blood down and sets the glass aside. He picks up his cane and follows Sebastian to the balcony. He takes a moment to appreciate the view of the city's skyline.
He is unperturbed and indifferent. There's a plume of smoke visible in the far distance.
On the balcony, eyeliner guy is busy making out with some random chick whose entire aesthetic is a clashing mixture of goth and office professional. They're pressed up against each other and moaning into each other's mouths.
There are visible bite marks on the woman's neck. Seb raps his knuckles on the screen door and moves aside while eyeliner dude takes the woman by her hand to a different spot, so they resume their amorous activities.
(He's giving her a kiss and the Kiss, it would seem).
The woman's hair is matted with sweat, and her eyeliner is starting to run a little. Her lipstick is smudged and it's starting to leave stains on mister eyeliner's pallid cheeks.
Sebastian slides the screen doors closed. Gorman and Helene continue to chat amongst themselves.
Seth raises his chin and looks down at the scene below him. He regards the Toreador with his usual cool, yet indifferent stare. "Well? I'm listening," he starts.
Sebastian replies with a question of his own, "What's going on over there?" he gestures towards the smoke plume.
"That, my friend, is the sweet sight of victory over the forces of the Second Inquisition."
"Ah. Those Assamite crazies, right?"
"Mm-hmm. I have a question of own, now."
"Shoot."
Seth explains, "On my way up, I saw a few people scanning every conceivable corner with various devices. Also, what's with the heavy security around your Haven?"
Sebastian smirks, "So? I run a tight ship, my man."
"I don't doubt that you do. But...why?"
Sebastian's shoulders drop a little, "After that...whatever Tower came down, I hired additional security. I have 'em sweep for bombs or any kinds of explosive devices every half hour or so, y'know."
With some fear in his voice, he adds, "You can never be too careful, Mr. Steale."
He wags a finger and wistfully reminisces, "That was a traumatic event for all of us."
Seth shrugs and indifferently states, "All the Caitiff were either destroyed or fled soon after, Mr. Gorsky. My sources tell me that only a few of them remain in this city."
"Hmm."
"Yes, indeed. Hmm. And what's with all the suits? They don't look like your local bodyguard types."
Mr. Gorsky leans against the balcony's railing, "They're Gen4 Security. I've decided to keep 'em on a retainer...till all of this shit blows over." He laughs at that, a forced, desperate sort of laughter.
Seth sniffs, "Gen4 Security, huh? I think I've heard of them. Are they any good?"
"Oh, yeah. Yeah. Worth every penny. Why? Those mercs at your compound starting to bug you?"
Seth simply stares ahead. Another plume of smoke rises in the distance.
Sebastian leans his elbow against the balcony, "So, what's up?"
The High Priest adjusts his sleeves, "A trust has recently been setup..."
"Oh. OK...?"
"Hm. The Ventrue have already...contributed to this fund, if you will. And I would like for the Toreadors to do the same."
"Why?"
Seth sighs softly, "Sebastian, while you're here partying and talking about...whatever the hell it is that fashion designers usually talk about, the others are out there- driving the SI away. Kicking them out of their nests and cutting them open."
"Right..."
"Right," Seth affirms, "By the time we're done, this whole damn country will be mi--ours again. I'm not an accountant, Sebastian, but I don't see what's so complicated about that."
The Toreador wrings his hands together, "How much are we talking here? And why does this thing even exist? You know, I could just write you a check for however much you think it's gonna cost to fight the--"
Seth gives the Primogen an amount, in dirhams.
Sebastian's mouth drops and hangs open, "W--what?! Sheesh. Uh...OK. That's not the number that I had in mind. S--sure. But why does it exist?"
Seth cracks a subtle smile, "The Ventrue have been saying that the Toreador haven't been making any meaningful contributions to the fight against the SI."
He presses on, "People talk. Human nature is rotten to the core. I can't do anything about that, but what I can do- as a friend- is make sure that all your bases are covered."
Mr. Steale leans in closer, "But the bottom line is: you don't wanna go to sleep in the middle of the day tomorrow, thinking about the fact that the Assamites are kicking out the SI and your Clan has yet to contribute something substantial."
Sebastian sighs deeply and clicks his tongue, "Hrrf. Fine. We've known each other for decades now. S--sure, sure. I can write the check whenever you want. The Ventrue said that about us, huh?"
"Indeed. They're saying all kinds of nasty things."
The High Priest pauses for a moment before resuming, "Once the last Inquisitor has been cut down, what happens next, hmm?"
Sebastian chuckles and does a wide, sweeping gesture, "A massive fucking party, obviously! With the usual. Why, did you have something else in mind?"
Seth rubs the back of his neck, "As your friend, I don't want anyone to say that the Toreadors didn't do their part in sending the Inquisitors to an early grave, and I don't want them to say that you didn't contribute."
He rubs his chin with his thumb, "Your Clan will get its due credit. The Ventrue will, as well. As for me and mine...well, that's a bridge that'll have to be crossed when the time comes."
Sebastian's eyebrows rise. "Hm. Well, uh. Sure." He goes silent for a moment before continuing, "Anyway, we got ourselves a deal? What about the other Clans?"
"What about them? The Assamites contribute by doing the dirty work, the Malkavians are out there as well, the Nosferatu...well, the less said about them, the better. The Caitiff are a non-issue now."
He explains, "I'll do my best to keep them from...I don't know, whining, I suppose."
Sebastian shakes his head and grumbles, "I don't like or trust those goddamn Assamites, Seth. Especially that blonde Slavic bimbo--"
Seth turns to face the Degenerate and glares at him with his serpentine eyes, "I would recommend moving on from that, Mr. Gorsky." He narrows his gaze even more, "Svetlana and I...we...we have something special."
He warns Sebastian, "So, don't you even entertain the thought of seducing her or using her for your own ends, understand? We are...destined to be together, in a manner of speaking."
Sebastian nods furiously and looks down at the cityscape in the distance, "O...kay? That was super awkward. What the hell do you see in that bit--woman, anyway?"
Seth dreamily answers, "She's special. From the moment I first laid eyes on her all those weeks ago, I sensed that we were meant to be together. You could even say that the fates conspired to bring us together. Heh."
He sighs a bit and continues, "It's fate, Mr. Gorsky. Our fates have intertwined for the past few weeks. You find that...what, disagreeable, don't you?"
Sebastian shakes his head, "Chicks like Svetlana are a dime a fucking dozen in this city. Besides, you were in fucking Italy a few months before all--all of that shit started in Dubai."
Seth raises his chin and smiles widely, "Ah, yes. I was. That, my Bullfighter friend, was more of a...spiritual journey. I wasn't there to...score, heh."
"Hm. You're missing out. Italian tail's good, man. It's got all the right proportions. The skulls are shaped a certain way. The lips...so soft. They're not fat, but they can get quite animated...if you don't tame 'em right."
(Is he talking about people or cattle?)
The High Priest replies with a hint of scorn in his tone, "Like I said: my trip to the Cave of Apples in Naples was for the purposes of long meditation. I sought insight and powers from the very foundations of the Founding Temple."
Sebastian sardonically prods, "And how'd you get there? On a fucking bicycle?"
Seth mirthlessly laughs, but keeps his composure, "No. I flew there- on a private jet belonging to a fellow Viper."
He raises his chin and declares, "I don't fly economy, Sebastian. It's not my type. Is that a crime?"
Seb shrugs, "Dunno, don't care. I was just...messing with you, man. Relax. Jesus."
Seth replies in a cool manner, "Ah, of course. Haha. Your sense of humor has always been...politically incorrect, hasn't it?"
"It sure fucking has." Sebastian sees an Gen4 Security operative patrolling the front. He gives him the OK sign. The operative holds a small PDW and is clad in a gray suit.
The operative stops to say something into his earpiece before resuming his patrol.
Seth takes a step closer, "Are you still doing that...skull-measuring and face-reading stuff? The name of whatever it all is, honestly, eludes me."
Seb scoffs, "Of course I am! I'm a qualified phrenologist and I can also tell a person's entire character just by reading their face. That shit never gets old!"
(Physiognomy AND Phrenology? What a lovely combo.)
He shrugs and laughs, "And people come to see me work my magic, but modern quote-unquote 'science' trashes us because they're afraid that we know all of people's deep, dark secrets and what makes them tick."
The Primogen snarls, "Afraid that they're wrong about everything and afraid that they'll have no more power if people like me tell 'em exactly what makes them who they are!"
Seth muses, "Yes, it does seem that not offending anyone dictates a lot of what's acceptable in these...modern times of ours." He says "modern" with quite a dose of venom in his voice.
"Of course it hasn't!" Sebastian sneers, "All this PC bullshit, all this...'sharing is caring', and 'make love, not war'- it's all an illusion! And it's pathetic!"
He waves a dismissive hand, "But people keep falling for that same ol' song and dance, year in and year out, because...they're people. But we're Kindred, we're the shit."
Seth chuckles a little, "I guess we are, Sebastian. I guess we are."
Sebastian then asks, "So...The Celebration Of Power is coming up. You got a theme for this year? And you told me that...you're taking care of the refreshments? You sure about that?"
Seth twirls his snake cane and exclaims, "Ah. The Celebration Of Power. Yes. I have everything planned out. My Herd will, hopefully, be adequate for this year's...festivities. As for this year's theme...do you remember last year's?"
The Toreador nods, "Yeah. Yup. Uh...'Seizing The Initiative'. Right?"
"Bingo. I almost thought you forgot it...tsk, tsk, tsk."
"So, what IS this year's theme??"
"All will be made known in due time. I think I have something a lot better in mind for this year, haha. You'll see."
"That's how we keep our power," Sebastian grins and chuckles darkly, "You and I? By...by...um...hmmm...how should I put this?"
Seth cuts in, "By seizing the initiative and taking what is rightfully owed to us after decades of floundering around without much of a purpose? After years of being forced to hide in the shadows of our Sires and Elders? After being hunted by mortals and our fellow Kindred, no less? Hmmm?"
Sebastian snaps his fingers and he beams, "Yup. You nailed it! Yes, yes, that's exactly it! Floundering, purpose, being held down, all of it! Exactly right, Mr. Steale!"
Seth leans forward and smiles sinisterly, "Exactly. I seized the initiative. Once this all blows over, I'll have Svetlana all to myself...and we...oh, we'll be inseparable. That is how I plan to spend eternity with her."
Sebastian's eyebrows shoot up, and he stifles a sigh, "Uh...huh. OK. I still do not get what you see in her, but hey, it's your funeral, man! And what's this I hear about a new Banu Haqim Primogen??"
Seth snaps out of his deluded reverie, "Oh. That. It's a temporary arrangement. It doesn't really concern us. We just have to sit back and let them get down and dirty with our foes."
He rubs the back of his neck, "Anyhow, Mr. Gorsky. Thank you for your time. I'll see you around."
Before Seth walks away, he looks over his shoulder, "Things...are not going to be the same around here." It sounds as ominous and cryptic as can be.
Sebastian has an unsettled look in his eyes as Seth confidently exits. He doesn't bother making small talk or mingling with any of the Toreadors (or their mortal hangers-on) over here.
Gorman is still sitting there, with Helene's hand in his, rubbing it in circles with his thumb.
Sebastian mutters to himself, "Y--yeah. Here's to new beginnings, a new era, or whatever the fuck." With a trembling hand, he lifts a shot glass into the air and holds it out.
He lowers his voice to a hush, "...here's to my comeback. A grand comeback."
After that, he steps back into his Haven and stands in front of that large painting on his living room wall. That woman in the painting is...his Sire.
She often referred to herself as, "The Fairest Of Them All" She "gently suggested" that others do so as well. Not doing so had...dire consequences and was a rather messy affair.
(It was quite hard to get the gore off the walls).
As a Fledgling, this Karl Lagerfeld wannabe has had his fair share of cleaning up after his "eccentric" Sire.
Till this very night, Sebastian Gorsky does not know the name of the Elder Toreador who Embraced him into this world...
...this world of darkness.
Seb doesn't know if she's still around. They lost touch with each other as time marched on. Sebastian moved around a lot while she...
...well. Not many are privy to her whereabouts. Accounts are contradictory and all over the place. Some say that she was Beckoned off to some far-away, desolate place to guard it from the Second Inquisition.
Others say that she is simply in Torpor, like some Kindred Sleeping Beauty or whatever.
After a while, Gorman stands up and runs his hand through what remains of his silver hair. He decides to do a little mingling with whoever else is around here.
Helene downs the last of the blood from her glass and opines, "That snake tattoo on that man's neck. Does he have to be so obvious and wear his Clan on his skin? Hmph." She gets up and joins her fellow Toreador for some mingling of her own.
On the 15th floor of this same apartment building...
Camille (yes, the very same one from all those nights ago) bites her thumb as she dials a phone number and waits. No reply, no one picks up. The woman growls a little in frustration before hanging up.
She doesn't bother to leave a message, either. She just throws the cellphone down onto a nearby sofa, grabs a bottle of some sort of beverage, and gulps some of it down.
She's dressed in PJs and mostly keeps to herself. She's not fully aware that Sebastian lives 8 floors beneath her. While she's brushing her teeth, the phone rings.
The call is coming from somewhere in Turkey.
Once she finishes rinsing her mouth, she picks up the phone and answers, "Yeah? Hello?"
She shakes her head and groans, "Oh. Y--yes. I understand. Oui (FR: Yes). She--she has been delayed again?" there's a hitch in her voice.
The woman sits down, "Uh-huh. Of course, yes, I understand. I see...OK. Mm-hmm." She nervously nibbles her thumb.
Her breathing climbs, "I can manage--" she winces when she hears the static on the other end of the line.
After that, a few tears begin to stream down her face. Camille wipes them with her palm, gathers her composure, and trudges over to the sofa.
She sinks into it and lets out a heavy sigh. She turns on the TV and mindlessly watches some show, attempting to get her mind off things.
There's more to Camille than meets the eye. In time, it shall be made known.
Right before sunrise, the Unit 8211 thugs have already done their best to clean everything up. They blasted a few police officers and firefighters dead and recovered Lt. Hilda Klein's body before extracting.
The cops have the presence of mind not to investigate further. They just close their investigation on the spot due to certain pressures from outside, external forces.
There are, after all, many ways to skin a cat.
Besides, the "gang" narrative will begin to take root in the public mind. That narrative, in its own perverse way, helps to maintain the Masquerade.
Chapter 21: Rescue
The sun rises over the land. After last night's fierce fighting, the vampires scattered back to their Havens to rest, mend their wounds, recuperate, and prepare for whatever comes next.
There is not much room for respite in this struggle, however. No time for a vacation, to put it bluntly. During the day, the Kindred are vulnerable- completely still and prone to attack.
The immortal (but not indestructible) beings of the dark night succumb to their day-sleep as the sun rises, and the skies burn bright with the rays of life (and light).
Just like they did for Abdullah, the Zionist thugs record videos of a few captured Assamites being obliterated by the rising sun. The videos, somehow, find their way onto the systems of the Nosferatu.
(It's going to be quite a nasty waking-up surprise).
Those videos are sent as a warning of what will happen to the Kindred in this part of the world. Lt. Raz herself edited the video and put it together after the recording equipment was brought back to the main base.
She has a callous and indifferent reaction to seeing captured Kindred writhing in agony and burning to ashes. She looks over at a few of her fellow soldiers and sees that they all feel the same way.
Some even gleefully chuckle and high-five each other.
Like last time, she has the video end with big, bold white text on a black background that reads: "AM YISRAEL CHAI".
Adding insult to injury, Lt. Liora Raz added some kind of dark synth pop music to the grim video before sending it off.
That's Unit 8211's way of doing PSYOPS and sending a message to the Kindred that they're not backing down anytime soon.
The day goes on with the mortal denizens of the city remaining none the wiser. Panic and fear set in once the papers and other media outlets start running with the whole "gang" narrative.
Either way, the Emirati authorities are hellbent on reassuring everybody that Al-Kushraf city is still THE place to come shop, set up a business, shit like that.
The families of the emergency personnel who were killed by the Israelis last night are given generous "compensations". Basically, a shut the hell up and deal with it kind of deal.
Not every family member is willing to accept that, however.
1 man, whose firefighter son was gunned down by the Zionists, is seen crying as he walks away from a reporter. He wants answers, not dirhams.
Absalom, the Malkavian Primogen, is still in the throes of the day-sleep. The sun slowly descends upon the land. The Kindred in this Middle Eastern metropolis are already preparing to stir awake.
The Elder Malk can feel his entire mind being yanked into the inescapable depths of the Malkavian Madness Network. He finds himself unable to move, unable to speak, unable to do anything.
Creepy carnival music plays all around him. Colors and shapes dance about him and mock him. His mouth opens and closes, but he cannot even scream. He cannot speak.
His limbs are stiff and unmoving. He cannot feel them. Absalom can't move a single digit or twitch a single facial muscle.
The voices swirl all around him.
"This is a fucking travesty! It's depraved, disgusting, immoral, and unsanitary!"
"Agh! Can't you see that I'm in here? I finally...finally get some alone time. HEY! STOP! What are you doing?!"
Some hoarse-voiced woman calls out, "I can make my own fairy book ending."
"BITCHES!"
The Elder grits his teeth and pushes all of his mental strength into trying to break free, but it's not enough.
A gentle, barely audible call tickles the Elder's ears, "Absalom. Absalom. Hey, it's me."
Absalom's lips quiver, "Ma--Madeline?"
"Y--yeah. Just do what you did last time. Easy steps, now."
"But--but--I cannot remember...I--"
"Do it. You know the words; you know the dance. You know what to do."
"I..."
Madeline's voice takes on a more synthetic, computerized tone, "Absalom. Do. It."
"I cannot!" the Elder Malkavian cries out in near pain.
The voices laugh maniacally and directly taunt Absalom, "Aww, it's the feudal lord. Look at him struggling. Dumb son of a bitch. He was a fucking tyrant in his time. Serves him right."
Madeline sighs softly. Beeping and whirring noises follow, "Absalom, focus. Focus."
Absalom's mind immediately goes back to his past. It was literal centuries ago.
Even to this very night, he vividly remembers it all. While others might've chosen to forget, Absalom has chosen to remember.
It was a hot summer day during the Middle Ages, and not all were having a good time. The peasants were not so happy about the latest order of their lord.
Absalom, who went by a different name back then (obviously), had ordered the serfs to work till the end of the day. Severe beatings would await those who disobeyed or defied the benevolence of the then-mortal Absalom.
Absalom and his large family would have a loud celebration. Wine goblets clinking, sparkling red wine flowing like water itself.
In the middle of the revelry, Absalom would rise up, his healthy face flushed with wine, and proudly declare, "Set thine eyes upon mine lands! Behold my vast riches and wealth!"
A ragged looking man with a scraggly gray beard would often roam Absalom's vast estate. He was only ever seen at nights and was constantly drooling.
He spoke in grunts and growls, barely forming cogent words. Even the peasants stayed away from him and chided their children to AVOID going out during the night.
Absalom had a large portrait of himself hung up in the main hall. The portrait was painted by a skilled artist of the time, and it was said to have captured the Absalom's visage in the finest of details.
His piercing blue eyes, his broad shoulders, and his long, flowing black hair.
The scraggly man was suspected of being a runaway from a local asylum. He would often go around town, and the locals would shun him as well.
Absalom would try- time and again- to get this annoyance off his land, but that man always had a way of giving the well-armed guards the slip. There were even times when Absalom's children would see that same man standing over their beds in the dead of the night.
He would just stare at them, growling softly.
It got so bad that 1 night, Absalom himself decided to find this fellow and get rid of him. Permanently. Personally. No guards, no help from any virile showoff cousins, just him and a shiny sword that had recently been sharpened on a whetstone.
Absalom crept around the estate, sword in hand, looking for this interloper.
He was quite drunk at the time, and it didn't take much effort to stumble his way into a field and see the man standing there. He was dressed in tattered gray rags, and his hands were outstretched and raised to the moon overhead.
With his eyes firmly heavenward, the seemingly insane man was babbling something, his voice hoarse and scratchy.
Absalom approached, his sword out, ready to strike at his first opening.
That man noticed Absalom, turned, and smiled at him. Without warning, Absalom struck the first blow. This alone should've killed him.
Instead, his gashing wound...it began to heal before Absalom's wide eyes. No blood seeped through the flesh, the leathery skin pulled itself together, and the wound healed over in a matter of seconds.
"What...art...thou?"
That man bore his fangs and leaped on Absalom. Despite looking so old, frail, and weak, he had the strength of a 1000 knights.
He pinned Absalom down and bit into his throat. That man...is Absalom's Sire. After the Embrace, the man left the land and was never seen again.
Absalom himself awakened in a field. In the post-Embrace Frenzy, he had killed at least a dozen peasants, and some of the nearby villagers fled in horror.
This, for the peasants, was the straw that broke the camel's back. Absalom's tyranny and ruthlessness to his subjects was at an all-time high, and many were gathering torches and sharpening pitchforks.
From the beginning of his Unlife, Absalom had quite the headstart in the Auspex Discipline. He could sense danger even before it came knocking.
The then-Fledgling felt something was coming, and he knew what was going to happen next. He packed some stuff into a sack, abandoned his family, and ran away from his own vast lands into the woods.
His head was a mess (still is). He barely even recalls his own name, and he could not remember how he became Kindred.
In time, most of his memories returned. It took years, and some of the details are fuzzy, but they've trickled back.
His Sire had given him the means and opportunity to escape his mortal doom. It was a kind, merciful gift, if anything. That roaming, roving Madman would go on to Sire more Childer in lands far and near.
Absalom has been through the Madness Network many times, and it's the only thing that's kept him from going completely insane (paradoxically, it's also nearly driven him nuts). He's made his peace with it, regardless.
Madeline's voice cuts through the shroud of Absalom's memories, "Hey. Hi. How are ya?"
"I am...I am fine, Madeline. How do you fare?"
"Everything's green on my end. Optimal, running, and stable. It's always nice and clean. How are you holding up, Absalom? Are you still there?"
Absalom's eyes slowly open, and he blinks a few times, "Yes. It takes time to...come around."
"Yeah. So, about what we discussed last night..."
The Elder groans, "Yes. You will help us to defeat the foe that has beset us? You will...ask the God-Machine?"
Madeline weakly chuckles, "I'm just a node in the God-Machine. I'll have to go through proper channels, send a few prayer signals up, and the like. It'll take a few cycles or so. But yes, I can absolutely give you a hand. If the God-Machine wills it, of course."
"Thank you. I don't know what else to say. What I have witnessed in regard to the God-Machine continues to...confound me. Is there anything else you wish to add?"
Madeline's synthetic voice cracks and signs of wistfulness and grief bleed through, "I ca--can't believe it's only been a decade since my--my assimilation. It feels like centuries, heh. I feel so...odd."
"Yes. What happened to you in Flimont City was...tragic. But you got vengeance on those who destroyed you, yes?"
Madeline ignores that and states, "We have to stop them, Absalom. The Second Inquisition, whoever they are in your part of the world. They're bad news. Everywhere."
Absalom sighs, "We shall do all we can possibly do, Madeline."
Some machine-like noises begin to fill the air. Madeline starts mumbling, "Optimizations required at Sector Theta-45. Dispatching. Optimizing. Logged. Store. Acceptable."
The Elder remarks, "Such...complexity."
Madeline goes on, "Infrastructure not found in current operating point. Insufficient resources to expand. Interest in expanding = negligible."
The Elder inquires, "Why can the God-Machine not make its presence known here?"
Madeline flatly answers, "It doesn't want to. There were a few Linchpins back in the 1990s, but when the UAE started growing, those same Linchpins started to...vanish."
"I see. What is this Linchpin that you speak of?"
Madeline shakily asks someone beyond Absalom's reach, "Ma--Master? Seeking permission to share limited info with entity? Entity is named Absalom. Like my former self, a Malkavian. Understood. Thank you."
"..."
Madeline resumes, "Permission granted. The God-Machine has deemed you worthy of access to certain data streams."
"That is most kind of it. Please relay my thanks."
"Access granted. You are welcome. All of the God-Machine's Infrastructure has a single, unremovable weak spot- a Linchpin. In the UAE, this was a prototype android who gained sentience/freewill and had to be destroyed/discarded."
"Excuse me? What are these androids you speak of? Is it like the phone operating system?"
Madeline's chuckle comes off as rather robotic and hollow, "No. It was a person who had undergone the process of Rewiring. Their consciousness was uploaded to the Infinite Matrix of the God-Machine."
Absalom is dumbfounded, "You are losing me, Madeline. Even for an Elder like myself, this is all far too much."
Madeline comes out and says it, "Androids are real, Absalom. They often call themselves the Rewired/Inorganic, just like vampires call themselves Kindred/Cainites. You got the Embrace to make new vamps and androids go through this whole process called Rewiring."
"How does that even work?"
Madeline makes a painful, strained noise, "Agrh. I--I can't divulge that. But the Rewired are out there, there are even some in your immediate location. Like the Masquerade, the Firewall protects them...provided they uphold/defend it."
Absalom dryly remarks, "How very intriguing. And you say that the consciousness of all of these...robots is inside the God-Machine?"
"That is...1 way to put it. Yes. Also, robots is a bit reductive. The Rewired have bodies of flesh, but their insides are...well...wires, circuits, chips, all that. They go to sleep while recharging themselves."
Absalom's eyebrow twitches, "They can be...defeated, can they?"
Madeline goes on, "Well, if you're talking about their physical forms, sure. But their consciousness is always safe/secure in the God-Machine. If anything happens to the shell/body, then a new one will be assigned to them. It's a pretty huge waiting list, heh."
"Can Kindred become androids? Can they go through this Rewiring process you speak of?"
"It depends. Why? Y--you wanna go through it?"
Absalom replies, "Why did you not go through with it? Or are you still on this waiting list?"
Madeline's voice quivers, "I--I have a different purpose within the God-Machine. It chose me all those years ago because of my...unique relationship with numbers. Numbers, equations, algorithms, data...all that."
"You are merely a node in a machine of infinite complexity. You are...happy with this? Truly?"
Madeline's reply is a whisper, "Yes. And I wanna to help you out, Absalom. So, yeah. I'm happy, or as...happy as can be, I guess. You don't know what it was like...looking back..." she trails off. She wishes to say more, but she does not.
Absalom sighs and picks up on a few things, "Very well. Let us discuss strategy."
Madeline whispers, "Absalom?"
"Yes?"
"Something's come up and it requires my immediate attention. I really have to take this. Oh, by the way, tell Mr. Bean I said hi. OK. We'll try to make contact later and discuss strategies. Logging. Store."
A high-pitched noise screeches across the air and the Elder Seer jolts awake. His mind is still reeling from learning about the existence of androids.
Over the course of his long Unlife, the Malkavian Primogen has encountered Garou, Mages, a few Wraiths, and fewer Changelings. He's even heard rumors of aliens being real.
This world is truly a strange and magical place. And a pretty dark one, too. Full of secrets, mysteries waiting to be unraveled.
Absalom rises from his day-sleep and feels his entire body shake as a shiver runs down the entirety of his cold, cold body.
His eyes dart around, and he looks over to the side, where a glass is filled with ruby-red liquid.
Mr. Bean left a handwritten note under it that reads: "Last of our supply. Kept it 4 u. Heading out for a walk. Have fun :-)"
Absalom gulps down the liquid and feels a rush of blood pumping into his Unliving body. His fingers tingle and his Beast rumbles in contentment.
With a shaky hand, he takes a look at his face in a nearby mirror. Still him, still around, still Absalom, still here.
He only came to the UAE back in 1970s.
When he was in Chicago, Absalom was quite good at running a Blood Bank. His super Auspex also makes him quite adept at planning and optimizing routes for the Blood Trade (amongst other things).
When he was driven here a few weeks back, the Elder helped to optimize a few of the paths of the Circulatory System in this part of the world.
The Circulatory System is basically an international network of smuggling Vessels across state lines, national borders, or even whole continents. Its operations are global in scale and cut across Clans, Sects, and Domains alike.
For reasons obvious, this shit is illegal since it involves trafficking of human beings whose blood might have that certain tang to it, that peculiar taste, that sugary kick, a certain sensual saltiness, that...Resonance.
So, yeah, Absalom's been involved in all of that for quite a while. Around these parts, the Ministry has a monopoly on the sordid Blood Trade. As of late, the Tremere in Abu Dhabi are the #1 customers.
Absalom takes a bath, brushes his teeth, and walks around his penthouse. It's lacking in furnishings. The A/C makes this place feel so cool, though.
Almost too cool, but Absalom likes it that way. The Elder Malk plants his butt on the blue sofa and throws his head back.
Not even a minute goes by when the doorbell rings. Absalom groans and rises from his seat. The sound of the doorbell is annoying as hell. It's like a sharp knife stabbing into his ears.
Mr. Bean insisted on getting something that sounded crazier, but Absalom put his foot down.
The Elder opens the door and sees a familiar face. It's Seth Steale, all by his lonesome. The High Priest is dressed in smart casuals and holds his magical snake cane by his side.
Seth smiles, "Good evening, Absalom. I hope this isn't a bad time?" the politeness appears forced.
Absalom steps aside and silently ushers the Setite inside. His icy blue eyes follow his guest's every move. The Seer closes the door behind him and follows the High Priest to the living room.
"Sit, please," Absalom offers. He has to be a proper host, after all. Centuries of vampire politicking have taught him that much.
Seth sits down on the couch and places his cane across his lap. Absalom sits on the opposite sofa, facing the High Priest.
The Elder asks, "To what do I owe the pleasure?"
Seth dryly shrugs, "Just checking up on everyone. After all, the Banu Haqim weren't the only ones who were driven out of Dubai."
"Hmm. Yes. Like I had mentioned last time: by the time my vision of the attack came to me, it was too late to act upon it. Even now, certain things about that evening continue to perplex me."
Seth sighs, "Yeah. So you say. So you say. And how's your Clan faring against the SI? I know you refuse to work with the Assamites- I'm alright with that. But I do hope we can all set aside our differences and fight against a common foe."
"I have been in contact with what I perceive to be a powerful ally. It will help us to vanquish the Second Inquisition once and for all."
Seth's ears perk up and he leans forward, "Oh? My, my, my. You Malkavians really do have some nifty surprises up those sleeves of yours. This sounds like quite the promising development, my friend. Can you share any details?"
"It will be a secret between me and the source of this...power."
Seth nods and looks at the snake cane, "Yes, yes, I see. Hm. Fair enough. And this...whatever it is, can it be trusted? Does it have the best Kindred Society at heart?"
The Malkavian Primogen responds, "I believe so. Tell me, High Priest."
"Yup?"
Absalom lifts his chin, but his intense eyes remain focused on the Viper, "Do you know of anything called...the God-Machine?"
Seth shakes his head from side to side. A chill goes up his undead spine as he does so. He's never heard such a term before. It's not like the name of the Setite deity, Typhon, Apep, the Chaos Serpent, etc.
It's an entirely new concept. The Setite doesn't know how to feel about it. Something is happening that even he is not wholly privy to.
The Typhonist furrows his brows, "OK. Is this...God-Machine thing gonna help us out? Is that why you asked me that question?"
Absalom gives a slight nod, "Yes. That is correct."
"I see. So, you've gone and talked to someone and got all of this info out of them."
"In a way of speaking, yes. I do not, at this moment, feel comfortable sharing all the details, however."
Seth smirks, "Understandable. What would be the point of asking if you were just gonna spill the beans anyway, eh? But what does this God-Machine want with us?"
Absalom turns his head aside and mumbles, "Its ways are vast and beyond us, High Priest of Apep. I have a feeling that the Second Inquisition will meet a terrible end in the not-so-distant future. They will learn the true meaning of fear."
Seth's smirk widens into a full-on toothy grin, "Now we're talking. Yeah, you tell this God-Machine I'm down to play ball."
The lights violently flicker and come on at full intensity. The A/C gets louder. The sudden intensity of the lights causes Seth's eyes to widen. Pain begins to shoot across his head, and his fangs are borne.
His skin itches and his chest aches. His eyes begin to bleed, and the light burns into his retinas. He feels sick.
"Ugh...what's..." he falls to the ground and extends a shivering hand towards his cane.
Absalom is unfazed. He springs up from his seat and calmly turns the lights down to a more acceptable level, his own lips part into a knowing smile.
The High Priest groans, "Ugghh..." he can feel the dimming lights eating into his eyes and making the pain even worse.
Absalom's voice booms throughout the penthouse apartment, "Madeline! Are you there? It's Absalom. Do not do that again. The Setites Abhor the Light. Or..."
Something dawns on the Elder. When she was still around, Madeline wouldn't have possibly known about all the Clans, their Banes, Compulsions, etc. But now that she is 1 with the God-Machine...
Absalom's mouth is a thin line, and his jaw tenses up, "Ah. Of course."
Seth struggles to rise, and the lights return to a dim normal, "What's...happening? Who the...hell is M--Madeline?!" his teeth are gritted in agony.
The Malkavian Primogen helps his guest back up and sets him down on the couch. The snake cane's emerald eyes flash for a quick moment.
Seth is a mess. Absalom sits on the opposite sofa and looks at the Setite's red-soaked face, "I am truly sorry about that."
The Sand-Snake dabs his face with a handkerchief and gruffly asks, "Does shit like that happen here often? The whole place acting up? Is it some Malkavian thing?"
Absalom answers, "It is not a 'Malkavian thing', no. That is, however, not important."
Seth scoffs, "Really now? Well, the timing seemed off. So, this God-Machine buddy of yours--"
The automatic shutters slowly close and cover the windows.
Seth rolls his eyes, "OK. That's just ridiculous. Are you sure this Haven of yours isn't haunted? I know Wraiths and...other spirit entities love to make things...messy."
Absalom shakes his head, "I assure you, High Priest. This place is not haunted by the denizens of the Shadowlands. If it were, I would have seen them before they even saw me."
The Malkavian Primogen points to his left eye, "My Auspex has never failed me...and it never will. It tells me that there is something bigger going on in this Domain."
Seth abruptly twitches and winces, "Ow! Shit..." he turns his head away, "I got...a nasty headache all of a sudden, y'know?"
"Hmm. I see."
The Tempter regains his composure and wiggles on his seat, "I've suspected as much, but what about you? What do your visions show?"
Absalom spreads his hands, "Did you ever hear of the tragedy of Icarus, Mr. Steale?"
Seth chuckles mirthlessly, "Nope. I mean, I went to school and all, but all of that...crap wasn't exactly in the uh...curriculum. Why? What relevance does it have to us on nights like these?"
Absalom counters, "You must not be so dismissive of such things. Even while I was still Primogen in Dubai, I knew of your cult and its distaste for...modernity."
"So?"
"Icarus ignored Daedalus's instructions not to fly too close to the sun. He was so overcome with hubris that his wings melted, and when it did, he fell from the sky, plunged into the sea...and drowned."
Seth smirks, "Alright, so...what's the point in all of this, Absalom?" his hands tremble and he holds his cane in front of him.
Absalom's intense eyes burrow into Seth's very being, "YOU must be cautious. In my visions, I see you flying too close to the sun...and getting burned."
Seth dismissively waves his hand, "That's all very pretty and poetic, too. But I'm not Icarus- a figure of make-believe and mythology. I'm Seth Steale, High Priest of this fine city...and something more."
Absalom's smirk is fiendish and knowing. He regards the Viper with a level gaze and says, "Then you have only proven my point. In my...visions, I see glimpses of what you have planned."
Seth gulps and tightly holds onto his cane, "Oh?" he tries to keep it cool, but his lips quiver.
Absalom nods, "Yes. And I have to say that it is quite the ambitious plan- if my premonitions are to be believed, that is. In my visions, I can see a great war on the horizon. A slaughter...chaos shall follow, but it shall soon subside."
The Elder Lunatic goes on, "I see a figure, closely resembling you, ascending a staircase of ashes and corpses."
Seth's eyes widen, and his mouth opens slightly in surprise, "You--you've been having visions about me?" the Setite tenses his shoulders a little.
Absalom dispassionately says, "Be at ease, Seth Steale. I have no intent of thwarting your plans. If anything, I will give you a hand."
Seth's smile is lopsided, "Whoa. You--you scare people just by starting at 'em. Heh. You had me scared shitless there for a second, haha. So, you AND this God-Machine are gonna help me out?"
Absalom dryly responds, "Yes. That seems to be my destiny. Our fates are more intertwined than you think. The future has shown me much. I see glimpses of the past and the present as well."
"I mean, I could care less about all that stuff. Just give me the juicy bits, you know?"
"No."
"Well, why the hell not?"
"Because much of it is...muddled. Murky and hard to grasp. I will admit that there are times where I have been wrong. My Unlife has been long, longer than yours, Neonate."
Seth shrugs, "Yeah. Alright. Fair enough, heh. So, I um...I win in the end?" he has an expectant look on his face.
Absalom gives a slight nod, "Yes. Then again, it depends on how one defines 'winning'."
The Setite's grin widens, "Cool. Anything else? Uh...what about Svetlana? Is she...with me?"
"What of the Assamite Neonate?"
Seth clicks his tongue and repeats himself, "Is she with me? Svetlana Bobrov."
"If you mean to ask whether or not she will stand with you once the time comes, then I do not know the answer. Everyone else surrounding you appears as a...dark blur."
The Corrupter takes a deep breath and mumbles, "Shit. You knew Svetlana back in Dubai, right?"
"In passing. I know that her Embrace was unauthorized. Yet, Prince Angela saw fit not to have Sheriff Gallagher destroy her and John. Why do you ask, High Priest?"
Seth dreamily looks up, "I'm--I'm in love with her, Absalom. I want her to myself. I don't want anyone else to lay a finger on--on her. She's a sweet little thing, you know. I'd kill for her, burn down entire blocks just to see her smile."
Absalom nods ever so slightly and flatly asks, "Would you really go into your Final Death for her? Are you certain you are in love? Where does the line between love and obsession end for you?"
Seth growls, "The hell is that supposed to mean?! I love her! I WANT HER! Ha--have you ever had feelings for her, huh? Have you tried to--"
Absalom lifts his finger and firmly advises, "I would advise you to refrain from speaking any further, High Priest of Apep. As I have said, my vision is limited. I cannot see everything."
"But you can see me, can't you?! What happens to my Svetlana?!"
Absalom sighs deeply, "You must be cautious with her, Seth Steale. Your passion for her may burn you even before you've had a chance of attaining your lofty goal. I sense that Svetlana is more than what she seems."
Seth calms down, but he glowers daggers at the Malkavian Primogen. The Setite bares his fangs and asks, "What do you mean, dammit?!"
"Please, do not bare your fangs in my Haven. It is unbecoming of you. I am not sure. She is no ordinary Assamite. For 1 thing, I sense a great deal of pain and suffering around her."
Seth replies, "I'm sure it's beautiful, whatever it is. I just wanna hold her and--and comfort her and tell her to forget her past, leave it all behind, and be with me forever, by my side."
"Yes. I can sense that. You wish for her to be by your side...forever."
Seth smiles, "Yeah. I know she'll come around eventually. I just--I just have to make sure that nobody else tries anything funny. Did she have a--a boyfriend back in Dubai, anyone she was close to?"
"Not that I know of."
"What about a girlfriend? Was she that type of person?"
"I don't think so, no."
"What about other friends? Family? Anybody she was close to?"
Absalom stifles a groan, "I am not her father, Seth. If you have such questions and feel so strongly for her, then perhaps you should approach her and ask her instead of asking me. It would be the proper thing to do, no?"
Seth nods and rubs his chin, "Right, right. I think I'm gonna do just that. I just need to find the time. She--she's so busy, fighting off the SI, y'know? So, finding the time with these clashing schedules is really tough."
"Indeed."
The Elder Seer clasps his cold hands together, "Why the interest in this woman? You have given me certain reasons, but I do not find them to be...satisfactory. There is more to your infatuation with this Assamite than mere physical attraction, is there not?"
Seth leans forward and answers, "I don't know. Maybe, maybe not. But hey, can you blame me? She's beautiful! I mean, have you seen those green eyes of hers? That straight blonde hair?"
"Is that all? In the mere weeks she has been here, you know nothing else of her save for her physical appearance? What of her...personality, her character, the Blood that courses through her veins, and other such aspects? Do they not interest you?"
The obsessed High Priest scoffs, "She's a woman! I'm a man! She's an Assamite. I'm a Setite. What more do we need to know about each other?!"
(For Seth, it's not about attraction, curiosity, or genuine love- it's about power. It always has been for the Young Republican at heart. He only calls her beautiful, but is that it?)
Well, yeah. To guys like Seth, that really is...it. They just want a piece of tail and somebody to show off at parties and the like.
Absalom shakes his head and dryly responds, "So much more, High Priest of Apep. There is more to her than meets the eye. I feel it, I sense it, and I see fragments of it. She is a strange creature. I would advise you to be cautious, all the same."
Seth dismissively waves his hand, "Tsk. It can't be that bad. Besides, you Malkavians often get shit wrong all the time, so y'know."
Absalom gives a slight nod, "True. I concede that there are times when our insanity, for lack of better words, gets the better of us. But you have not seen what I have seen over the centuries, Neonate."
Seth smiles and raises his hands, "Yeah. Sure. OK. Whatever you say, Absalom. Y'know, all this Icarus talk got me remembering something..."
"Oh?"
"Mm-hmm. But before we get to that, who was...Daedalus in this Icarus fable?"
"Did you not attend school? Daedalus, the master craftsman, was the father of Icarus."
Seth chuckles a little, "Ah. So, if I'm supposed to be Icarus, then Daedalus would be my...Sire, I guess?"
Absalom replies, "If that is how you wish to interpret it, then yes. Did your Sire teach you about the ways of Unlife?"
The Serpent lightly shakes his head and his eye twitches, "Well, Rafael De La Cruz taught me something, alright. He taught me that Kindred Society needs--well, it needs--never mind, it's not worth it."
Absalom sighs, "I see. He was, what, a cruel man?"
"Something like that. He left me out for the rising sun while he watched from the safety of the darkness. It was a test of my faith in Typhon, you see."
"That is...not ideal."
"Heh, yeah. Yet here I am after all those years," Seth proudly declares. But there's a hint of bitterness in his tone. A touch of anger. He's angry at his Sire. He even harbors some resentment for the man.
Forgiveness is not in the picture. Probably. Typhon has given Seth the strength to push forward, regardless.
Paradoxically, Rafael was also the man who gave his Childe the opportunity to advance up the ranks, so to say. If not for him, Seth would still be a lowly Neonate of low power levels. He would never have been able to become the High Priest and be on the path to attaining his goals.
Absalom notices the tics on Seth's face, the twitches, the erratic blinking, and so on. Nothing escapes his notice.
He proceeds to inquire, "You speak of your Sire with some...bitterness. Why?" There's no real emotion behind his voice.
The Viper shrugs, "Oh, don't get me wrong. I--I--a part of me is grateful to Rafael for all that he bestowed upon me. For the revelations he brought forth from Typhonist doctrine. But..." he trails off and looks away.
His fingers tightly grip his cane. His dead heart races.
The Elder folds 1 leg over the other and leans back, "What troubles you?"
Seth turns his head aside. His lower lip shifts and trembles, "It's about Svetlana. I--I can't stop thinking about her. I want her, I crave her, and I have to have her. I KNOW she feels the same way, too!" he exclaims.
Absalom is silent. He merely regards his guest with a cool, level stare.
Abs asks the obvious question, "Have you at least told her how you feel?"
Seth lamely answers, "I...might've said something to her a few nights back, when we gathered at that abandoned power plant. You remember the one, right?"
The Lunatic raises his chin, "I do, yes. How did she react?"
"Uh..."
Absalom heaves a sigh and shakes his head, "I am not a love advisor, or however they call themselves. You said that the cautionary tale of Icarus reminded you of something. Do you care to elaborate on this?"
The Sand-Snake sniffs and nods, "Yeah, sure, sure. When you were helping to optimize our Blood Trade routes, you mentioned being quite well-read in a lotta stuff. Do you know much about The Hymn Of The Pearl?"
The Malkavian Primogen takes a moment to think through all of the stuff his 2 eyes have ever seen. He answers, "I am not. Perhaps you would like to tell me more of this Hymn, yes?"
Seth chuckles and begins, "Oh, it's not just some boring old poem. No. My Sire had me memorize it down to the last goddamn word. It's the words of Typhon, Absalom." He looks up with a fanatical gleam in his eye.
It's almost like a proud child telling their parents about the time they scored a goal in soccer or something like that.
"It sounds like a Masquerade breach."
Seth allays the Elder's fears, "Ah, it's not like that. You don't have anything else to do now, right? No places to be, people to meet, or whatever?"
"No."
The Typhonist clears his throat, "I'll start from the beginning, and then I'll explain its meaning and--and significance to you. The Hymn goes like this..." he takes a deep breath and begins reciting it from the top.
Officially, mainstream explanations regarding The Hymn Of The Pearl tell the story of a boy sent to Egypt to retrieve a pearl from a serpent (!). On the way, he encounters obstacles and is thrown off the path.
The boy receives a letter and is reminded of his past and purpose. With newfound courage, the boy overcomes the last of his trials and gets the pearl. He returns to his homeland and lives happily ever after.
Sorta.
However, the Typhonist interpretation is a tad more...colorful in its telling.
Seth finishes the last lines of the Hymn with fervor lacing his voice, "The Hymn of Judas Thomas the Apostle, which he spoke in prison, is ended."
As way of politeness, Absalom lightly applauds. He dryly remarks, "It was quite the performance, Seth Steale. Tell me, why did you recite that in its entirety? I would assume that a summary would have sufficed."
Seth smirks widely, "This is where it gets interesting."
The Hymn is commonly associated with Gnosticism and other such religious beliefs. But it's not that clear-cut.
The boy in that poem was actually a young man. But not just an ordinary young man. He was a Revenant- a hereditary Ghoul capable of producing trace amounts of Vitae. Their aging process is also considerably slowed.
Anyways, this lowly Setite Revenant was sent on a journey to retrieve the Pearl. The quest was supposed to be simple, easy, and straightforward.
The Revenant, however, got lost along the way.
He overcame the obstacles in his path, fought off those who meant ill, and made his way to the place where the Pearl was.
The Revenant seized the Pearl from a physical, tangible incarnation of Typhon. He returned and got a gift by way of fangs sticking into his neck and draining him whole. He was a vampire now.
And as time rolled on, that very same young man would go on to Sire Rafael De La Cruz.
Seth folds his hands on his lap, "So there you have it. The story of my...Grandsire, I guess. From a lowly Revenant bred for servitude to someone who came face-to-face with Typhon and lived to tell the tale."
Absalom slowly nods, "I see. This is quite the...fascinating story, indeed. And the mortals, till now, they do not suspect a thing, yes?"
"Nope. They don't suspect a damn thing. It's not like they ever will. Heh. They're too stuck up, wise in their own eyes, too damn enlightened for their own good. All those goddamn modernists...and their notions of modernity," Seth growls.
The Seer refrains from commenting.
Seth goes on, "They're weak. Stupid and soft. They don't realize what we have. They'll never know. The fools, the idiots, and the dupes."
"Hmm. While I do not necessarily share in your distaste for modernity and the current state of the world, I do find this interpretation of The Hymn Of The Pearl to be...fascinating, if nothing else."
"Ah. Yeah. It's the Blood that's in my veins. So, the significance of it is that, when I read the Hymn, it reminds me of my Grandsire and what he did."
"It is, in my view, the journey of the hero. The Hero's Journey, perhaps. Are you familiar with that concept?"
Seth clicks his tongue, "Nope, can't say I am. But the Blood does have a certain...weight to it. It's not like the others, y'know? I mean, it's the Blood of a--a--"
"Revenants are hardly special or unique at all. The Tzimisce breed entire armies of them."
"Right. Yeah. So, when you look at it from that angle, you could say that Rafael and I are a part of a great, noble, and ancient line that uh...had a hero who stood toe-to-toe with Typhon and survived."
Absalom merely nods.
The Corrupter is a bit excited, "I'm gonna recite the whole thing during the Celebration Of Power! I'm gonna make sure that Svetlana knows what the deal is with me, how important I am!"
Absalom equably responds, "If that is what you wish. I do look forward to attending this Celebration Of Power. Back in Dubai, we often heard many things about it. Is it truly as...extravagant as the rumors say?"
"Oh, trust me, it is. Every single year, we go all out. Your meals are taken care of, everything is discreet, and there's not a chance that anyone's gonna walk in on us. You can do just about anything, my friend."
"I see."
Seth leans back in his chair and lets out a deep, content sigh, "Ah."
Absalom prods, "Why do you want that Saracen by your side? Will she not slow you down?"
"Not if I break her first, Absalom. I--I mean, liberate her from the radical teachings of the Blade. It's just a matter of time before she's eating outta my hand. Besides, the others are too stupid to recognize what they have right in front of them."
"Which is?"
"She's a beautiful woman. She's got the right stuff to climb the ladder of success. She's not gonna get there without my help, though. And all that Palestine stuff is holding her back. I can...free her from it. I know I can. I gotta do it."
"And the other reason why you want her with you?"
Seth cracks a smile that doesn't quite reach his eyes, "I need somebody I can trust by my side. She's got all the right qualities. A little bit of molding, and she'll be ready...for me."
He gulps and adds, "Well, that and I'm just mirroring society's demands. Me and Svetlana could be, like, a Kindred power couple or something. She's quite ferocious with those daggers of hers and I'm...well, y'know, heh."
Absalom has a very unimpressed look on his face. He's as still as a statue. His cold, dead eyes stare straight ahead.
Seth's smile widens, "She's a killer, Absalom. We both are. And once she's with me, we're gonna carve a bloody swathe through all the trash and filth that's standing between us and the top."
The Lunatic musters a smile, but it's forced.
"It's funny, y'know? After my last time, I kinda gave up on it all, but when all of you showed up on that night, well, it rekindled the flame, so to speak. It rekindled the fire of--of something within me."
"What happened the last time?"
Seth gets a tad agitated and angrily waves his hand, "Ach. That's not worth reliving. It makes me sick to my Unliving stomach just thinking about it. It's disgusting, really. Then again, I was fooled for a time."
"I am sorry to hear that."
Seth points at the Elder, "Yeah. Word of advice? Make sure that their fucking junk is real. N--never mind. Don't go in blind. Don't be the idiot who doesn't think to ask a few questions, OK? You gotta be careful. Very careful. Especially these nights."
"I shall keep that in mind, High Priest of Apep."
There's some humming noise in the air; some buzzing soon follows. Seth readies himself for another surprise light attack, but it's just the aircon unit acting up.
Seth relaxes his grip on the cane and leans forward, "Yeah. It's crazy these nights. The things that they can do to make you look...convincing a--and passable. Sheesh." He shudders at whatever it is he's thinking about.
Getting riled up and angry at whatever. Typical.
Absalom sniffs, "If there is nothing else? I think you have places that you wish to be, yes?"
The Viper rises from his seat and dusts himself off, "OK, yep. You're right. I've overstayed my welcome, heh. It's getting pretty late, and I have things to do. I'll be at Elysium in case you wanna drop by or something. Take care."
Before leaving he smiles, "And thanks for keeping my secret. I uh...hope that you'll keep it to yourself, hmm?"
Absalom lifts his chin, "I am neither a child nor a tattletale who cannot control their impulses. Your ambitions, lofty as they are, will be safe with me. Of that I can assure you."
Seth strides over to the door and leaves. Absalom stares straight ahead.
He sits there and ponders, muses, and considers. As the door clicks shut, a phone call comes in through the cordless landline phone on a glass side table. He answers it.
"Hello?"
Mr. Bean's voice comes through frantically and shakily, "Hello! Hello! Absalom, Absalom, Absalom, are you listening?!"
Absalom blinks, "Mr. Bean. Is there a problem?"
"Y--yeah, you could say that. I--I, listen, man. I screwed up. Big time."
The Elder calmly lets out a sigh, "What happened. Use your words but remember who might be listening in. You have not done something to betray us, have you, Mr. Bean?"
"N--no, no, no, nothing like that! No, no, no! No, man! Uh...um...someone said my name, y'know, my...name."
"I see."
Mr. Bean sounds like he's crying tears of blood, "I--I lost it, Abs! I screwed up real badly. I--I dunno what to do, please help me!"
Absalom plainly tells his charge, "Remain where you are. Stay out of sight. I shall come to you. We will take care of this problem together. Did anyone see you? Were you noticed?"
"No. No, no, no! Just...just come and help me, please. Please, oh, please! I'm scared and--and--it's everywhere! Oh, Jesus, for--forgive me!"
Absalom shakes his head, "It is too late for that. I am leaving now. Do not do anything rash or stupid. I will arrive shortly."
"Thanks. Thanks. Thanks!"
Mr. Bean ends the call. Absalom is left with a dead phone line. He puts it back down on the charger.
Absalom and Mr. Bean are Blood-Bonded with each other. Abs is obviously the Regnant while Mr. Bean is his Thrall. It was mostly done to assist with developing the latter's Auspex Discipline, as well as for his own security and safety.
But it's also good for keeping tabs on each other and what they're doing.
The Elder slowly rises to his feet. He looks around the apartment 1 last time before turning the lights off. He grabs some cash and exits his Haven.
On a nearby shelf, there's a digital photo frame. Mr. Bean bought it with the hopes that he and his adoptive Sire would have the chance to take some pictures and make memories together.
Unfortunately, his dreams remain unfulfilled. The stock images continue to cycle on through the frame.
The device flashes, glitches, and emits a high-pitched noise. The screen flickers. A distorted image appears before it fades away. A line of text soon follows.
Before the glass cracks, the device reads: "What has risen must fall, what has fallen may rise again."
Absalom gets to Mr. Bean's location (using Auspex to pinpoint him, of course) and sees his charge cowering behind a dumpster. There's a slick trail of blood behind the man.
Mr. Bean, trembling and shivering, whines, "He's dead, Abs. He's dead!"
"Who was he?"
An old friend from Mr. Bean's church recognized him. This unfortunate mortal called Mr. Bean by his true name. When those words hit his ear, he violently Frenzied and murdered the poor mortal.
He even drained him whole.
The dead man was a backup drummer in the church's worship team.
Much (much) later...
Thomas has got more info for the Assamites. This one, he says, is something that they're not gonna want to miss out on.
It's a major opportunity to strike yet another blow against the Second Inquisition. It's an opportunity for them to show just how powerful they can be.
Tommy is waiting under a bridge. Garth and Samir are on the way.
The Nossie Primogen picks up a few wee pebbles, inspects them in his deformed hand, and flicks them into the nearby puddle. He gets a gravelly laugh out of his throat.
The puddle ripples. The moonlight bounces off the surface and creates an eerie sort of glow.
He chuckles and mutters, "Aye. 'Mon! Where are they? Grr!"
After last night's intense fighting, the Nosferatu were gifted with literal handfuls of SD cards taken from the devices of the dead SI goons.
Those cards were loaded up and given the ol' once-over.
In the process, they discovered that the agents of the Second Inquisition have a secondary facility that they use for...enhanced questioning purposes.
(Torture and interrogation, basically).
Tracing cached location data and sifting through metadata took time, but it eventually led to a location just north of the city's outskirts.
The place is supposedly set up to interrogate a number of prisoners. It's not clear how many they have, but Thomas reckons that this could be a very worthwhile opportunity.
If the Assamites can successfully infiltrate the place, they'll not only get to free the prisoners, but also gather a ton of useful info and data on the Second Inquisition ops in this city.
The lion's share of the info that led to the jackpot came from Lt. Klein's SD cards, may she rot in piss.
Samir and Garth eventually arrive. Samir wears a pair of sunglasses, and a cap sits on his head.
Garth is wearing a trench coat, gloves, and a shemagh. Both the Kindred are carrying some serious hardware.
"Took yous 2 long enough," Tommy grumbles.
Garth responds, "We're here, aren't we? Besides, don't blame me. Our new Assamite friend here had trouble keeping up."
Samir shrugs and apologizes, "The sewers are not as straightforward as they look, habibi. I do not know how all of you memorize every single twist and turn down there. Walla, it is quite the maze."
Garth snickers, "Haha. It certainly is. Every one of us have no other choice but to memorize it...all. It's for survival if nothing else. Right, Thomas?"
Tommy nods in agreement, "Aye, well, you'd best listen tae Garth, pal. Naw gonnae be losing yous doon there. It would be a focking shame, hmm?"
Samir chuckles, "Walla, I am not afraid, habibi. I just need time. That is all. It has been a while since I've felt so...accepted, like I belong."
The Nosferatu Primogen puts his twisted hand on Samir's back, "Nae bother, pal. Nae. Bother. As long as yous is good and have something tae offer us, you are welcome tae stay with us doon in the Warrens."
Garth chimes in, "Oh, yes. Of course. Bring something to the table and we'll be more than happy to accommodate you."
Samir tells the 2 Crawlers, "I will do my best, then. Thank you, my friends."
Tommy clicks his tongue, "We're glad to have a smart laddie like yerself with us."
The other Nosferatu solemnly nods, "Yes, after we lost some of our own, we'll need a little extra brainpower...to make up for that lack."
"I am sorry for your losses," Samir pensively says with a lowered gaze.
It isn't long before a taxi rolls up besides the 3 vampires. It's a spacious white sedan with semi-tinted windows.  John is in the driver's seat.
His eyes are hidden behind a pair of mirrored sunglasses.
Svetlana, Zeina, and another lady sit in the back. A random Assamite sits in the front. He's dressed plainly and has a hoodie and scarf over his face.
The Assassins step out. John walks up and greets the others.
"Hey. Sorry, we're a little late," John says.
Samir waves his hand dismissively, "Oh, it is fine, habibi. The traffic in this city is not exactly ideal, hmm?"
John nods, "Yup, you could say that."
Tommy points to the cab, "New ride? You doing taxis now?"
Zeina cuts in, "No. Of course not. This taxi belongs to a fellow Banu Haqim. He gave it to us to help move around the city faster. He works part-time as a taxi driver."
Garth nods, "Ah, I see. Interesting. Try not to make too much of a mess, eh? Haha."
Svetlana looks at the group and asks, "You said that you have something for us? From SD cards we got last night, what did you find? It is useful to us, I hope?" she looks a little timid and less sure of things.
The Banu Haqim Neonate has been thinking about the whole thing, especially last night's battle. For her, this comes first, but she can't help but feel that there is something not quite right.
Something certainly seems amiss, but she can't place her finger on it just yet.
Samir speaks up, "It is most excellent news! I hope. According to the information we have salvaged, we think that the Zionists have a holding facility of some kind not too far from here."
Thomas tells the gathered Assamites that they do indeed have a lead on the whereabouts of a possible SI torture site.
Svetlana frowns and lowers her gaze, "Hmm. Da. We can investigate the location. I just hope that we are not being...baited. If these Nazis are trying to trap us, we will make sure to Judge them all."
John smiles and concurs with his Childe, "Yep. What she said. Show us where this house of horrors is and we'll handle it."
Samir pulls out a refurbished iPad and taps on it a few times. Garth watches on as the screen comes alive with a map application.
"1 minute, please," Samir mumbles as he frowns and concentrates.
A few seconds later, he shows the tablet to the rest of the group, "Here. This is it."
The other Kindred lean forward and study the digital map. Once they finish talking amongst themselves, they pile into the taxi and drive off to their target location.
Samir sits this one out. There's still much data to sift through, and the Nossies need all the help that they can get right now.
It isn't very far from where the Kindred had their rendezvous. The taxi drops the group off about 10-ish minutes away from the area.
The rest of the way, the group will walk. John parks the taxi in a safe spot and grabs his katana blade.
Showtime.
Zeina takes point, and Svetlana follows close behind. A few other Assamites will be joining them for this.
The rest, however, have work. Bills that need to be paid, rent that needs to be cleared, appearances that must be kept up, and so on and so forth and what have you.
The rest of the crew are armed and absolutely ready to hit this joint.
Another Assamite uses her keen senses to pick up any human or animal life nearby. So far, there's no sign of anything out of the ordinary.
This is it- they're nearing their destination.
In the interrogation facility...
Yishai, the chief interrogator, is pacing about. He's holding a cattle prod and is wearing a black shirt with a faded Star of David on it.
(The Swastika, like the Star of David, is a religious symbol that has been appropriated by some of the worst people in the entire world. Fascists are diametrically incapable of creating anything new. All they do is regurgitate, degrade, and destroy.)
He's got a look of pure spite on his face.
He's getting ready for the next round of torture, but the prisoner isn't being cooperative.
Poor Aaron Hart doesn't even know whether it's night or day. He's lost so much weight and is just barely clinging to life.
Yishai and whomever else have been at it for a little over a week at this point, torturing and interrogating the poor man.
They've beaten him black and blue, cut him, burned him, and electrocuted him.
Throughout it all, Aaron kept repeating that he was a human rights lawyer AND an American citizen. He knew NOTHING about these so-called "blank bodies" that his captors kept talking about.
The ashes of some of the recently destroyed Assamites were thrown in his face. Scars, bruises, and burn marks remain untreated.
Even the slightest of noises causes him to whimper and shiver like a leaf. He cries at random intervals and even wets himself. He's been reduced to a pitiful shell of his former self, broken physically and mentally.
The video of those vampires being reduced to ashes out in the sun is constantly looped, and Mr. Hart is forced to watch it. If he looks away, Yishai smacks him. Aaron can't stand to look at it anymore.
But he has no choice. The interrogator goes to great lows to make sure that he's forced to watch it whenever the small TV is wheeled in on a cart. He's been told that if he doesn't cooperate, he'll be joining them.
Mr. Hart can't tell if it's day or night. He's been drugged, tortured, and abused. Drool incessantly drips from his mouth. His eyes are bloodshot. He's been beaten, kicked, and punched.
He's got multiple broken bones and lacerations.
Aaron breathes heavily and he mutters, "I--I used to...to be neutral in--in all of this. Israel, Palestine, wha--whatever."
Yishai keeps pacing about. He lightly scoffs and shakes his head. He says nothing. He simply waits for the prisoner to continue.
Mr. Hart does. His voice is hoarse and raspy. He coughs, "But now? But...but now?"
"But now, what? Hm?"
Aaron musters up as much strength as he can. He yells out, "I THINK THAT YOU'RE ALL FUCKING MONSTERS! You...you're worse than apartheid, worse than...worse than the goddamn Nazis, worse than...worse than...anything! You're worse than the fucking KKK!"
He spits out some blood and weakly slumps forward.
Yishai shakes his head and lets out a menacing chuckle, "Oh, really? Were you expecting a response? Maybe a reaction? You think someone like me hasn't heard that shit a 1000 times before?!"
Aaron tries to say more, but the aching in his body prevents him from doing so. He winces and whimpers. He closes his eyes and bites down on his lip. He wants to scream, but he can't. He wants to cry, but he can't.
Yishai steps forward and yanks Aaron's head back by his hair. He sneers, "You think that you're the first person to say that to me?! You think you're special, lawyer man?! You think that your words have any meaning to me?!"
Aaron weakly hisses at his torturer. He tries to spit, but it doesn't go very far. It pathetically dribbles out of his mouth. Yishai releases his grip on the prisoner's hair.
He then backhands Mr. Hart across the face. Yishai cajoles his cattle prod into Aaron's open mouth and taunts him, "You want to spit on me, huh? Go ahead. Do it. See what happens."
The interrogator removes the cattle prod from Aaron's mouth. He walks around and grumbles and growls. He's impatiently tapping his foot on the floor. He's fuming.
Till now, Aaron has not given him any useful intel on the "blank body threat" in the UAE. Why the hell would he? He genuinely knows nothing about it. He's just a lawyer who's caught in the middle of all this.
He's a nobody, and he's only here because a freaking machine said that there was a chance that he has ties to the Kindred. That alone was satisfactory enough for the Israeli psychos to kidnap him.
Aaron has been repeatedly denied food and water. He's also been denied medical treatment. His wounds are left to fester and rot. He's been tortured and interrogated for a...very long time now.
The vampires near the interrogation facility. The surrounding area is dry grassland. The more developed part of the city is visible in the far distance. There are some lights here and there, but it's mostly dark.
The underground structure is sparsely guarded. The fumes and runoff from the nearby industrial complexes hang heavy in the air. The ground is cracked and dusty. The area is desolate and abandoned. It's a perfect place for such a facility.
Zeina signals for everyone to stop. She points to the ground and gently taps it with her knuckles.
John takes a look around. He recognizes parts of these surroundings. In the video where Abdullah was fried by the sun, these were the same surroundings.
He looks around and points out that this could possibly be the same place. The Assamites have found their target. They're in the right spot. Now they just need to find a way inside.
Zeina keeps tapping against the ground until her knuckles hit something that feels metallic. She looks up at the others and motions for them to come closer.
Once everyone is around her, she lifts the hatch and peers down into the hole. The ladder is rusty and dirty. The lightbulb at the bottom flickers.
The Assamite mutters, "This could be it. Who would like to go first?"
John looks at his Childe, "Svetlana? Would you like to scout ahead?"
"Da." She readies her Obfuscate Discipline and shakily climbs the ladder. She carefully makes her way down. She touches the floor and looks around.
It's a tight space. There's a large door in front of her. It's made of thick metal. She tries to open it, but it's locked. The door has a keypad on it. She can hear muffled voices on the other side.
Svetlana returns to the surface and tells the others what she saw.
John clicks his tongue in frustration, "Dammit! We're not turning back now. Any ideas on how to get through that door? Anyone?"
A burly Assamite with strong, hairy arms steps forward. He's got dark skin and a bushy beard. He says, "I have an idea, habibi."
Everyone steps away from the hatch. The Assamite leaps into the hole and lands on the floor with a loud thud. He cracks his knuckles, rolls his shoulders, and takes a deep breath.
Zeina can see the veins on the back of his neck bulging. He stands in front of the door and digs his fingers into the metal. He grunts and growls as he pulls on the door. He strains and pushes against it.
His muscles bulge and strain against his clothes. He keeps pushing and pulling until he eventually manages to rip the door off its hinges.
"Yalla! Yalla!" the Assamite shouts. He tosses the door aside and steps through the doorway. The rest of the group follows close behind. They make their way down a narrow hallway.
The walls are lined with pipes and wires.
Zeina takes the lead and moves forward. She's got her long dagger out. Muffled cries and screams can be heard from somewhere deeper within the facility.
She's followed by the rest of the Assamites. They're all armed and ready to fight. Ferociously.
Yishai punches Aaron in the face and snarls at him, "I don't need to hear your opinions, Jew-hater! I just want information. Now, are you going to talk or am I going to have to start carving bits of you off?"
"My...name...is...Aaron...Hart. I am--"
Yishai screams and wraps his hands around Mr. Hart's neck, "You are nothing but a fucking terrorist sympathizer! You are a cancer that needs to be cut out! You are filth!"
Aaron gasps and wheezes. His eyes widen in horror as Yishai continues to choke him. The interrogator tightens his grip and puts more pressure on Aaron's neck. He presses down and down and down but pulls back before Aaron passes out.
The prisoner lets out a weak cry. He feels something give way, and he starts to lose consciousness.
He thinks about his work back home. The law firm that he's been with for much of his adult life- VNS. This was the year that he was supposed to make name partner at the firm.
VNSH. That's what they were supposed to be calling themselves. But now? Now, he doesn't know if he'll ever be able to return to New York. He doesn't even know if he'll ever be able to leave THIS hellhole alive.
Yishai is enraged. He's heaving and panting. He's sweating profusely. His face is beet red. He takes a few deep breaths and tries to calm himself down. He closes his eyes and clenches his fists.
He then reaches over and picks up a knife from a nearby tray. He twirls it around and looks upon it with some psychotic affection, "You know, Mr. Hart..."
"..."
Yishai cracks a devious smile and continues admiring the knife, "Some of my dear colleagues have been saying that I've...gotten soft. If this were my old place of work, I'd have already taken an eye by now..."
He pauses and grins a little, "...and a few fingers. In my experience, you only ever need 1 eye...and not 10 fingers."
Aaron coughs and spits. He weakly shakes his head, "No...you...won't...I...have--have rights. What am...I, even?"
"What the fuck are you even talking about?"
Aaron gulps deeply and responds, "If I'm a...PO--POW, then I have r--rights. I have...a right to legal counsel. I...I have a right...to medical--care. I...have a right to be--be treated humanely. You..."
Yishai dismissively waves his hand, "Tch. Till now, you stubbornly cling on to this international law bullshit, Mr. Hart? Where are all your UN friends, hmm? Where's Amnesty International? Who is going to save you? Hmm?"
"..."
"You have no idea how the real world works, do you?" Yishai asks as he paces around.
Aaron's legs start to shake the closer Yishai gets. He tries to fight through the pain, but it's too much. He's lost so much weight, and his skin has gone pale.
"Do you think that you can hide behind your fancy law degrees? Every other day, you fucking people come up with some new blood libel against the Jewish nation."
"You can't...hide...behind...that..."
Yishai smacks the back of Aaron's head, "That's where you're wrong. You think that you Americans are better than us, but you're not."
He pauses for effect and goes on, "We're the ones out here in the Middle East, doing your country's dirty work. You understand that, don't you? Israel might as well be your country's 51st state, hahaha!"
The Assamites walk through a winding corridor. It's dark and dank. The walls are lined with pipes and wires. They walk past a couple of rooms that appear to be empty.
There are scratch marks on the ground. They look like they were recently made by someone with claws. It seems like someone has been dragged along the floor.
Zeina holds her hand up, and the group stops in their tracks. She points at the ground and shows them the claw marks.
"These look...recent?"
John points out, "This could be the place where those sons of bitches took the others. We're here for them, remember?"
Svetlana nods her head and says, "Da. It could be they are still here."
John looks around and whispers to his Childe, "This place gives me the creeps. I want you to scout ahead. Use your Obfuscate to lay low, alright?"
Svetlana nods at her Sire and squeezes through to the front. She takes a deep breath and focuses on her Discipline. Her body blurs, and she disappears from view.
The other Assamites stand guard. They're all armed with daggers and swords of varying quality.
It isn't long before Svetlana comes across another door. This one is made of steel. There's a keypad next to it. A swiveling surveillance camera is above the doorway.
She makes her way back to the others. The Assamite Neonate reports what she saw.
The burly Assamite fella from earlier steps forward, "Let me handle this."
Zeina stops him and explains, "No. The camera will spot you!"
Yishai slowly moves the tip of the knife from Aaron's cheek up to his eye. The prisoner winces and shivers. He tries to not make any sudden movements.
"What do you know about the blank body threat?" Yishai asks.
Aaron shakily replies, "I told you! I--I dunno a fucking thing about these blank bodies!"
"Do you know anything about vampires?"
Aaron gulps and hesitates for a moment, "I...I...I dunno anything about them either. Wha--what the hell are you even talking about?!"
Yishai sighs and shakes his head. He slaps Aaron's face, "Are you fucking slow or something? Or are you just playing dumb with me?!"
"I'm not...playing dumb! I...I don't know a damn thing about vampires or--or this blank body thing! I am--I am a human rights law--"
Yishai booms, "SILENCE! You are nothing but a terrorist sympathizer! You are a cancer that needs to be cut out! You are filth!"
Aaron can only tremble and shiver in fear. He's scared out of his wits.
John bites his thumb, "Once we take the camera out, we're gonna have to move fast. We have no way of seeing what- or who- is gonna be waiting for us behind that door."
The other Banu Haqim murmur and nod in agreement.
The burly Assamite cracks his knuckles and says, "Like I said, habibi. I've got this."
Zeina sighs and reluctantly agrees, "OK. Go. Do it. We will just have to hope and pray for things to go our way. Hm."
The big man grins and cracks his neck. He takes a deep breath and closes his eyes. His body tenses up. He's ready to rip some more strong doors open!
Svetlana looks at her Sire and asks, "Are you sure about this, John?"
"We don't have much of a choice here, Svetlana. That, and well...it's too late to turn back now."
The other vampires who were brought here are staked and in various roomers deeper in the facility. They've been locked up in the same room as the ashes of their fellow Assamites.
Many, though not all, have been defanged, stripped down to their undergarments, and have had their heads shaven. Just like poor Abdullah all those nights ago.
Aaron looks around nervously. He's worried that something terrible is about to happen. He's afraid that he's about to lose an eye, if Yishai's obsessive staring at his knife is any indication.
The big guy goes near the door and places his hands on it. He takes another deep breath and starts to push against it. The door strains against his muscles.
A facility guard squints at this sight on her monitors. She smacks a big red alarm button and screams, "ALERT! ALERT! We've got intruders in Section 25! Repeat! We have intruders in Section 25! Send back up!"
Alarm sirens blare throughout the entire place. Yishai looks up and grumbles, "Shit! What now? A scheduled drill? So soon?!"
Aaron is terrified. He knows that these Israeli maniacs won't hesitate to kill him if they think that he's been compromised. If they think there's trouble, it'd be a bullet in the back of the head.
Yishai has certainly threatened to do it many times before. The only thing stopping him is that he wants to keep Aaron alive long enough for the interrogation to continue.
This facility is sparsely guarded. After grabbing their weapons, a few Inquisitors run to the source of the disturbance.
They come across the big guy trying to force the door open. He's putting all his weight into it. His muscles are bulging and straining against his clothes.
The operators ready their weapons and train them the groaning door. The leader orders, "Step away from the door! NOW!"
John can hear the alarm going off. He's tense, but he's still trying to keep his cool.
The Assamites who do specialize in Obfuscate get ready to dematerialize themselves from everyone's view.
The burly man doesn't stop. He keeps pushing against the door with all of his might. The guards keep yelling at him to stand down. They keep yelling at him to step away from the door.
"AAAAAAAAARGH!" the big man screams out as he pulls on the door with all his might. It's been strained to its limits. The door breaks off its hinges, and the burly man falls to the ground.
The guards are stunned for a moment. They quickly regain their composure and start to fire. A few rounds whiz past the big man.
Zeina ducks into cover, her dagger almost slipping from her grip. The Obfuscated vampires stream in and begin to attack the guards. They go for their jugulars and stab them in the hearts.
The other Assamites follow suit and use their weapons to slay the remaining guards. John uses his katana to cut 1 of the goon's throats, while Svetlana slices someone's face with her 2 daggers.
The big guy recovers. He takes the opportunity and grabs a nearby guard. He holds him up and shields himself with his body. The other guards try to stop shooting, but they're too late.
Their friend is riddled with bullet holes. Blood sprays from his mouth, nose, and ears. The burly Assamite lets the body drop and then leaps at the guards with a ferocious growl.
He punches and slams them into the wall. He smacks their heads against each other and tears them apart limb from limb. His fangs are short, curved, and pointy.
John spots some more cameras. He uses his katana to cut them down. The devices crash to the ground.
John looks around and whispers, "We need to find our friends. And fast!"
Hurried footsteps fade away as Yishai watches some more of his fellow thugs sprinting down the corridor. Aaron looks around, his head sluggishly swaying about. He hears a door open from behind him. He tries to turn his head to look.
He can't. The restraints prevent him from doing so.
Someone whispers to Yishai in Hebrew. He growls and walks over to Aaron, with fury burning in his eyes. He grabs the prisoner's head and forces it back. He presses the knife against Mr. Hart's neck and snarls, "What did you do?!"
"I--I didn't--"
Spit flies out of Yishai's mouth, "Your friends are here! How did they find you, huh!? How did they know that you were here?! HOW, dog?! HOW?!"
Aaron stammers, "I--I swear! I didn't--tell anyone! I don't even fucking know anybody in--in this goddamn city! H...How, how could I even when I--I was here--"
Yishai's nostrils flare up, "Spare me your lies, fool! Who is your contact within this city?!"
Aaron's lips quiver, "I--I swear! Nobody! I--I--"
Gunfire rings out. Some screaming follows. Aaron lets out a light gasp.
Yishai releases him and pulls the knife back. He slams the door shut. Aaron's heart starts to race. He struggles against the restraints and grunts. He grunts and grunts.
The interrogator paces around, "You have family in Brooklyn, yes?"
"Please...no..."
Yishai has a look of conceit on his sweaty face, "A sister, younger than you. Yes?"
"Oh god...no. P--please. She--she has nothing to do with any of this! Please...please don't hurt her. I beg you..."
Yishai walks up to Aaron and pats his cheek. He pats it again and again until it starts to sting. He tells the prisoner his sister's current home address.
Aaron gasps in fear.
Yishai smirks, "I'll wrap your eye up and mail it to her. Hmm? Beautiful dark green eye, hmm? Yes? Left or right, Mr. Hart. Your choice. But after tonight, your depth perception will not be the same."
Svetlana jabs her obsidian dagger in the eye of an Inquisitor. Blood sputters out of her socket. She yanks the blade out and jabs it back in after snarling loudly.
Zeina has been fighting another goon. She manages to stab him in the gut by pulling him close and ramming the blade into him.
John has been busy slashing the throat of another. He keeps his guard up and looks around. He makes sure that no one else is sneaking up on them.
A random Assamite screams out, "Yalla! Yalla! We must find the others! I can sense them nearby! Yalla! Yalla!"
Zeina shouts, "John! Svetlana! Over here!"
The 2 vampires follow their fellow Assamites down the corridor. They've found where some of the other prisoners are being kept. Wooden stakes protrude out of their bodies.
They're neatly laid out on the cold floor amidst a pile of ashes.
Zeina is about to pull the stakes out, but John warns her, "If you do that, they'll Frenzy...Zeina, think about this!"
Ms. Al-Qutub hesitates for a moment but nods in agreement, "Yes. Yes. You are right. What are we supposed to do, then?!" Desperation laces her voice.
Svetlana walks over to one of the piles of ashes and kneels down. She picks up a handful and gently lets it float down to the ground through her fingers, and she closes her eyes.
A tear of blood falls from her face.
She sniffles and wipes the blood away from her cheeks. John looks around and spots a small group of shotgunners heading their way. They open fire and some whitey-p shells are sent flying into the air.
John curses under his breath, "Fuck!"
Zeina ducks into cover, and John tries to evade the shots with his Celerity. The vampire is pelted with some of the fiery rounds, and he lets out a bloodcurdling scream as he crumbles to the corner.
Svetlana's eyes snap open. She screams in anger. Her pupils dilate and her fangs come out. She shimmers out of view and rushes at the shotgunners.
She rips and tears at them with her daggers. The Assamite Neonate viciously slices and cuts them up. She leaves nothing but blood, guts, and half-severed limbs behind.
John crawls to the corner. His clothes are singed, and he's in terrible pain. He groans and coughs. He's struggling to stay composed.
After Zeina kills of the rest, Svetlana helps her Sire to his feet, "John! John! Are you feeling OK? John!"
John warily nods his head and strains to say, "I...I think...so...god, this shit stings."
He looks down at his body. There are holes and burnt skin all over his chest. He groans and leans on Svetlana for support, "Fucking...fire." His wounds slowly begin the process of mending themselves.
However, since it was fire, it does take longer. The dead flesh struggles to come back together. John takes a few deep breaths and stands on his own 2 feet, "Let's go find the others. OK? Let's keep going!"
Yishai looks at the ceiling above him. He takes a deep breath and lets it out. He grumbles and rubs his forehead, "Have they been repelled? I hope so."
He opens a nearby cabinet and pulls out a radio.
"HQ, HQ, come in?"
A woman's voice crackles over the radio, "This is HQ. Come in?"
"Yes. This is chief interrogator Yishai. We're under attack by some of the locals. There is at least a dozen of them. Engaging now. Still no response. Requesting reinforcements."
"Understood. Dispatching reinforcements."
"ETA?"
Commander Gallant's voice comes on, "This is Commander Obed Gallant speaking. Our forces are on their way. What is happening over there, Yishai?"
Yishai growls and responds, "I don't know. I was in the process of trying to get something useful out of this American dog, but somebody decided to interrupt our very...intimate session."
"How bad is the situation?"
The interrogator looks back at Aaron and glowers at him, "Till now, he stubbornly clings on to his lies, sir. He refuses to confess. He's a stubborn one, that's for sure. It won't be long before he starts to crack, though. Just a matter of time."
"Oh?"
Yishai grimly declares, "I'm going to take his eye out. That will put things into perspective, sir. I should've done it days ago."
Commander Obed replies, "Do what you must, Yishai. Remember that it is all for the good of Am Yisrael. When it comes to the defense of the nation, nothing is forbidden. We do whatever we must to preserve the Jewish people, the holy land, and our way of life."
"Yes, sir. I wholeheartedly understand. Left or right eye, sir?"
Commander Obed smirks a little, "Left eye. We need to keep that facility afloat, Yishai. We cannot afford to lose it. Especially now."
Yishai firmly nods his head, "Yes, sir! Understood! Just...please, make sure those reinforcements get here soon. I can hear more gunfire outside."
There is a hint of fear in the interrogator's voice.
"Understood. You'll be hearing from us shortly."
Yishai switches off the radio and puts it away. He walks back over to Aaron and places the knife back on the table, "You've got minutes before my boys show up, Mr. Hart. This is not your salvation. Oh, far from it in fact."
Aaron starts to shake in his restraints. He sobs and whimpers in fear.
Zeina points her dagger at the staked Assamites, "We will free the others! But not now! I want some of you to go back and find some blood. But not from these Zionist dogs. Go!"
Some Assamites begin to run back to do as they've been told. They quickly disappear down the corridor. The others stay behind and proceed deeper into the facility.
John takes a deep breath and steadies himself.
Svetlana looks at him with concern, "John? Are you fine? Do you want to wait till wound is healed?"
John shakes his head, "Nah. No way, Svetlana." He twirls his katana and trudges on forward.
They come across another door, and they enter through it. It's a control room of some kind. There are several monitors, computers, and surveillance equipment here.
An Assamite remarks, "Walla, this place is confusing! How deep under the ground are we?"
Zeina rifles through some filing cabinets and pulls out some folders. Most of them are unreadable to her since they're all in Hebrew. She frowns and tosses them to the side.
Svetlana looks around the place and spots a couple of Inquisitors on a screen. They're climbing out of an open hatch somewhere on this floor.
She points at the screen and says, "Look! See, what is that? It goes deeper!"
John grunts, "We've gotta hurry, then. We can't stay here forever. Shit, ugh...never mind. Let's go!"
The other Assamites nod their heads in agreement. Zeina walks over to the desk and rummages through its drawers. She finds nothing but spare ammunition, some trinkets that were looted from the prisoners, and a few crumpled-up pieces of paper.
She turns her attention to a computer terminal. It has some files on it, but it's all in Hebrew.
She huffs in annoyance. Before leaving, she orders the burly man to go absolutely wild on everything inside here. He smiles widely and does just that.
He smashes, rips, and tears everything apart. It's like his own mini rage room. He howls into the air as he destroys anything and everything that comes his way.
1 of the Assamites hastily comments, "We must continue on! More will be coming! Let us not waste any more time! Yalla! Yalla!"
It's not long before that hatch is found. An Inquisitor drops dead after having his insides turned into his outsides by John's katana. Another is kicked into the wall with a loud crack and impaled by Svetlana's dagger.
The rest of them are mercilessly slaughtered by the other Assamites. They take a moment to recover.
Zeina goes down the hatch and looks around. She looks back up and whispers, "There is no one here. Come down. We should hurry!"
John is next to climb down. His Childe follows right behind him. The rest of the Assamites, covered in blood and gore, make their way down the hatch and into a narrow corridor.
Zeina looks around and spots an elevator shaft nearby. She walks over to it and sees that it's not powered on. There's a fancy-looking biometric scanner on the side.
She frowns at it. The scanner refuses to open when someone places their palm on it.
Svetlana comments, "Nyet. Is no use. It will only open for certain hands..."
Another Assassin pipes up, "Then we cut off their hands! I will go up and bring some back with me!"
John concurs, "Yeah. You do that. The rest of us will keep going."
Aaron is sobbing, his tears staining the ground below him. He's still shivering and shaking. He can't help but tremble in fear. He knows that it's all over for him now.
Yishai pulls out a long and serrated blade. He spits on it and rubs his finger along its edge. He grins, "Left or right eye, Mr. Hart? Which one will it be? My boss said left eye."
Mr. Hart starts to cry louder. The interrogator grabs Aaron's face and squeezes his cheeks. He forces him to look him in the eyes and yells, "Answer me, scum! Which one?! Answer me!"
Aaron can't stop crying. Yishai takes a deep breath and sighs, "Left eye, then."
Some very loud gunshots ring out. Yishai's head snaps up. His eyes dart around nervously.
He drops the knife and pulls out his handgun. He cocks it and points it at the door. Aaron looks up at him.
The prisoner tries to muster up what little resolve he has left before screaming out, "IN HERE! I'M IN HERE! HELP! HE--"
Yishai turns around and smacks Aaron with the underside of his gun. It leaves a nasty gash on Mr. Hart's forehead. Blood pours out of his head.
He screams in pain and whimpers before losing consciousness.
The interrogator walks over to the door and slowly cracks it open.
"YAAAAARGH!" a thug screams out as he's cut down. His body falls to the ground.
There is another loud gunshot. A bullet pierces through the walls. Yishai gasps in surprise and staggers back. He tightly holds his pistol.
"Shit! Shit! SHIT!" he curses. He looks around the room. He runs over to the table and pulls out a blowtorch. He crouches down behind Aaron and muffles his mouth with his hand.
"Shut up!" Yishai growls, "Just shut up!"
The door bursts open. Zeina and the Assamites come pouring through. A shotgunner is lying dead at their feet, bloodied and shocked.
Yishai stands up and points his gun at them. He pulls the trigger. One of the Assamites is hit. She winces, staggers back, and growls.
The interrogator holds the blowtorch to Aaron's face and warns, "STAY BACK! STAY BACK! Or I burn his fucking face off!"
Zeina hisses, "You kill him, you die!"
"I don't care!" Yishai shouts, "All I know is that my friends are coming to this place, and when they do, you're all finished!"
John steps in and points his katana at the interrogator, "Don't even think about it, pal. You've lost! There's no way out. Your friends are dead. It's over!"
Yishai lets out a hysterical laugh and snarls, "No! No, it's not! When my people get here, they'll kill you! All of you! You'll pay for what you did to Lieutenant Hilda Klein!"
John remains where he is and cracks a tiny smirk, "Ah, so that was her name, huh? Why were you holding him captive? Who's he?"
Yishai angrily spits, "He's your friend, isn't he?!"
John casually shrugs, "Never seen him before. Zeina?"
Zeina shakes her head.
Svetlana, meanwhile, has Obfuscated herself. She gets behind Yishai and waits. The interrogator's eyes dart around. He looks at Aaron's unconscious body and back at John.
He grumbles, "What...what are you doing? Why--why aren't you--"
Svetlana rushes him and stabs him in the shoulder with her ceramic dagger. He screams out in pain and falls to the floor. His gun clatters away.
The Assamites quickly pounce on the interrogator and hold him down. Zeina walks over to Aaron and looks at him.
She exclaims, "My god! What--what have they done to this poor man? Who is he?"
John crouches in front of this broken mortal and cups his cheeks with his cold hands. He looks into Aaron's face and says, "He's alive. But barely. Who is this guy?"
Zeina nods her head and turns to look down at Yishai. He's in agonizing pain. He curses and spits out some blood, "You...you monsters! You...fucking monsters!"
Zeina looks down on him with a menacing look, "You have no idea who you are dealing with, Zionist dog! None! Now you will pay for all the evil you've done here! For all you've done to the innocent people! Your nation will be cursed for eternity!"
Before he can reach for the blowtorch, she yanks his arm back and twists it. He screams in pain. She grabs his other arm and breaks it like a stick. She twists it into an unnatural angle and leaves it like that.
Yishai lets out a wail of agony and grits his teeth.
John wordlessly nods at Zeina and gives her the go ahead. She nods back and readies her long dagger. She wipes the blood away and walks around Yishai, who is on his stomach and gasping.
She crouches on top of him, yanks his head back, and slits his throat.
"The Blade Judges you."
Blood gushes out of his slit throat. He gargles and chokes. His hands reach up to stop the bleeding. It's no use. He tries to crawl away, but he's stopped by Svetlana's foot firmly crushing his ankle.
Zeina throws his head down and lets go. Blood spills all over the ground. She watches with cold, calculating eyes as Yishai chokes on his own blood, gasping and wheezing like a dying animal.
John sighs, "I'll go look around some more. I'll see what I can find."
Aaron stirs awake. Slowly, he comes around. He babbles something incoherent and his head hangs low.
Svetlana frowns, "Poor man..." she grimaces at him sympathetically. When she checks for a pulse, she finds one.
She asks, "Who is this? Does anyone know him?"
John reads out loudly, "Aaron Hart. It says here he's from America." He holds up the mortal's passport. He puts it away and says, "I don't know him. I've never met him before in my Unlife. Anyone?"
The other Assamites look at each other and shake their heads. Nope. Nobody here has ever heard of Aaron Hart before tonight.
Aaron is wearing nothing but a pair of torn boxers. An Assamite drapes the mortal in his jacket. Svetlana and John help carry him back to the surface. They get him out of the building and bring him topside.
He looks so sickly, weak, and frail. He's barely alive. His body is covered in scars, bruises, and fresh cuts.
Yishai had a fob on him. That was helpful in getting that elevator to work. Along with a few severed hands.
The elevator doors open and Zeina walks out first. She's followed by the other Assamites. John and Svetlana are on either side of Aaron, helping to support his weight.
Aaron mutters something again, but no one can make out what he's saying. They bring him out of the elevator, through a hallway, and back onto the surface after a short climb.
A buzzing noise is heard overhead. A few surveillance drones fly by. John watches as it flies away and disappears into the distance.
He curses, "Shit! We better hurry! Before we get overwhelmed by reinforcements!"
A random Assassin asks out of concern, "What of the others?"
Zeina says, "We will go and get them. Pulling out the stakes is too risky here. We will go back for their bodies and take them to a safer place. Let's hurry! John and Svetlana will get this man away from here. Yalla, yalla!"
John and Svetlana set Aaron down for a quick moment. The 2 of them nod at each other and look at the torture victim.
Svetlana asks, "Who is he, John?"
Aaron blinks rapidly, "J--John. Jo--John Su--Suarez."
John's brows furrow, "How do you know my name?"
Aaron blankly stares off into the distance, "You--you're John Suarez?"
Svetlana shakes him awake, "Mr. Hart? Can you hear us? Can you understand? How do you know John?"
Aaron mutters something incomprehensible. He tries to speak, but it comes out as a garbled mess. More drool follows.
John growls, "We're wasting time! We gotta go! We'll find out more later." He scoops Aaron up and carries him over his shoulder. Svetlana helps him from the other side.
The other Banu Haqim run back into the facility. They return to the hatch and climb down, with Zeina taking the lead. Burly guy trails behind the group.
It's eventually decided that Aaron Hart is to be put up in a room at The Grand Alhambra. Seth takes care of booking the most expensive and luxurious suite on the 70th floor.
All expenses paid for by him. For now. 
Aaron Hart is still a mystery. What happened to him? How did he end up here in Al-Kushraf?
The High Priest also leans into his many contacts and has a full medical team rush over to attend to Mr. Hart. The mortal is given a full checkup. His wounds are delicately treated.
They stitch up his cuts, give him some medicine, and let him rest. Medical monitoring devices are surreptitiously set up all around this luxurious hotel suite.
Mr. Hart lies on a double bed, still not fully aware of his surroundings. He's still disoriented, delirious, and barely conscious.
Seth paces around the room and watches the doctors working on Aaron. John and Svetlana sit at the mortal's side. The doctor checks his heartbeat.
He says, "Everything seems to be normal. His vitals are good. But I still don't know how he survived that long in there."
John asks, "What the fuck were they even doing to him down there?"
The doctor answers, "All of what I've seen points to...torture. Some of these cuts are days old by now."
Aaron mutters something again, but nobody can make out what it is. He tries to get up, but Svetlana holds him down and gently shakes her head, "No. No. Please. Aaron. Do not move. You have been hurt."
Seth narrows his eyes at the way Svetlana interacts with the mortal. She looks at Aaron with concern and worry. This aggravates Seth greatly. 
John clears his throat and says, "He seems to know me. Or...or think he knows me? I don't know how. I've never seen this guy before."
Seth walks up and asks the doc, "Any idea when he'll come around, Dr. Jabeel?"
When the High Priest strides closer, Dr. Jabeel nervously twitches and makes other agitated gestures. He stammers, "Uh--I--I'm not sure, sir. It could be hours or days. Maybe even weeks. He was...to--tortured."
Seth nods his head and waves his hand dismissively, "Very well."
Dr. Jabeel gulps and goes back to the patient. He checks for any signs of concussion or internal bleeding. He doesn't find any. He's satisfied that Aaron is in no immediate danger.
Seth turns to John and asks, "What do you plan to do with him, Mr. Suarez?"
"Huh??"
Seth sighs and explains, "Well, this mortal knows your name. He could be a threat to the Masquerade--"
Svetlana gasps and her eyes widen, "You are not saying that we should kill him!" She glares at Seth for a few moments longer.
John raises his hand and says, "No, no, no. No one's killing anyone. Not on my watch. Sheesh. Let's save our fury and scorn for those Israeli bastards. I just wanna know how he knows me."
Seth shrugs, "I am merely suggesting that we should be careful. If this mortal knows about you, then he could be a danger to us all. To the Masquerade."
John rolls his eyes a little, "Look, Seth. We'll cross that bridge when we get there, alright? I mean, look at this guy!"
He gestures to the battered, bruised, and broken mortal lying on the bed, "He's not going anywhere anytime soon!"
Seth sighs and shakes his head, "Very well. Svetlana, how are you doing."
The Assamite avoids making eye contact with the Setite when she dryly replies, "Da. I am fine."
The last time these 2 saw each other was at that power plant. Seth might've made part of his feelings for her known back then. It's not exactly a secret anymore.
The tension in the air can be felt.
But she doesn't feel the same way. However, she has to come up with a polite way to make that abundantly clear. At best, she wants to be friends with the Viper.
After what happened to Svetlana all those years ago when she just 18, one cannot (and should not) blame her for not wishing to pursue a romantic relationship with anyone. Especially not a buster like Seth.
Svetlana gets up from her seat and weakly smiles at the High Priest. She asks if they can talk somewhere privately.
Seth is all the more eager to comply. He escorts her out of the room and closes the door behind them. The 2 of them walk down the hall together. He watches her keenly.
Almost too keenly.
The hallway is dimly lit, carpeted in a trippy design, and decorated with various paintings. There are some potted plants here and there. The air smells of incense and perfume. The atmosphere is quite soothing.
Svetlana takes a deep breath and exhales slowly.
Seth licks his lips, refusing to take his eyes off of the object of his obsessions. He's been waiting for this moment for so long. So very long. He's dreamed about it every day since he first laid eyes on her.
Seth asks, "So, Svetlana...we...err...when we last spoke, things kinda ended on a sour note. I just want you to know that I did mean every word of it. You're fascinating and I do...lo--like you."
Svetlana nods her head and smiles warmly. She holds back a grimace, "I also...like you, I think. As friend. You gave me and John new phones, you welcomed us to this city, and you have been very kind to us. I am grateful for that."
Seth's face falls. He feels a pang of disappointment in his chest. But he quickly recovers and smiles back at her, "Well, you're welcome."
Svetlana remains silent. Awkwardness hangs in the air as a tall woman walks past the 2, pulling her luggage behind her. She smiles politely at them and continues on her way.
Seth clears his throat and says, "I know that you have had...a rough past. Or at least that's me assuming things. Well, whatever it is, you can tell me, Svetlana. I won't judge you. I'm here for you."
Svetlana looks away and sighs, "Thank you, Seth. But I do not wish to speak of it." She shakes her head and adds, "I just...it is not easy to speak of such things. Please, try to understand."
The Setite presses his lips into a thin line and slowly nods his head, "Of course. I understand. I'm sorry if I came off as pushy. I didn't mean to. It's just that...well, you know."
Svetlana looks up at him and gives him a small smile, "It is fine. Please, let us not worry about this now. There is still SI to fight. We are focused on that. After, maybe we can...talk."
Seth is screaming inside, like a man denied his greatest treasure. But he manages to keep his composure and nod his head, "Yes. Yes, of course. That sounds good. I'd love to talk."
Svetlana's smile widens a little, "Da. Is good. I go back in and check on Aaron."
Seth weakly nods and follows her back inside the 70th floor suite. It's got its own temperature control; the walls are adorned in elegant paintings, and the view of the city is breathtaking.
A flatscreen TV hangs on the wall opposite the bed. There's a mini fridge stocked with imported snacks and drinks. The furniture is all high-end and luxurious. There's even a hot tub in the bathroom, with buttons to adjust the water's temperature.
The French windows open up to a balcony that overlooks the city below. The lights twinkle in the night sky. A few stars shine brightly above. The moon is full tonight. The city is alive with activity at this time of the night.
The High Priest walks over to the window and stares out at the night skyline. He lets out a sigh and shakes his head. He turns to face the others and says, "I'm going to see what I can dig up on this Aaron Hart. Dr. Jabeel, a word?"
The doctor stops what he's doing and timidly approaches the High Priest. He bows his head and says, "Yes, sir?"
Seth lowers his voice and whispers, "I want you to stay here and keep an eye on Mr. Hart. Lemme know if anything...significant changes in his condition. And don't worry, your indiscretions with those...nurses are being taken care of. Understood?"
Dr. Jabeel gulps and nods his head, "Y--yes, sir. I understand."
Seth pats him on the shoulder and smiles, "Good. I have a good, trustworthy friend of mine who's gonna make sure that those nurses won't say a thing about your...proclivities, or preferences or whatever you call 'em these nights. You're welcome."
The doctor sighs in relief and nods his head, "Thank you, sir. Thank you. I shall ensure that Aaron Hart is i--in good health."
Seth nods his head and walks away. He leaves the room and heads down the hall.
John remains seated beside the mortal. He's got a tight and tense look on his face. His eyes are fixed on the unconscious man lying on the bed. He looks so frail and weak.
John mumbles, "What the hell were they doing to you down there?"
Svetlana rejoins her Sire and runs her cold hand across Aaron's body. She asks, "What is wrong, John?"
John shakes his head, "I don't know. I just...I don't know. Something's bothering me. Something about this whole situation. Hmph, forget about it. What did Seth say to you?"
"Nothing much."
"Hmm."
The other abductees are eventually taken to a safer place before enemy reinforcements swarm the interrogation facility. Zeina and a few others hastily exchange bags of watered down blood.
After that, they all get to work and begin pulling the stakes out of their fellow Banu Haqim. Before the reawakened vampires can Frenzy, a bag of blood is shoved into their mouths. They drink hungrily.
They regain consciousness and their wounds heal. Some of them still look a little dazed and confused. But they're otherwise OK. A few of them look around and ask where they are.
Some of them are missing their fangs and others feel...violated in some way or the other. Other Assassins run their trembling hands over their shaven heads and cry tears of blood.
Zeina is there to console them. She hugs them and tells them that it's going to be OK. She tells them that they're safe now. She tells them that they're not alone in this fight.
Others cry out and wonder where their clothes are. They hide their bodies with their arms and look frightened. Zeina tells them that new clothes will be found for them.
She's doing her best to reassure everybody here that the worst is over. But she's not entirely sure herself. She knows that they're not safe yet. Not until the battle is over.
Not until the last Zionist in this Domain has been Judged.
If anything, things are starting to boil over. More and more people are getting involved in this conflict. The Masquerade is hanging by a thread.
At the Unit 8211 HQ...
The Command Center is in disarray. People are running around all over the place. Everyone is panicking. Some analysts bump into each other as they rush to and fro. Others shout at each other.
People are yelling, "What the hell is going on?!"
"Where's Yishai?!"
"What do you mean, he's dead?!"
Amidst it all, Commander Obed Gallant stands straight with his arms crossed across his chest. A middle-aged man stands next to him and silently watches the chaos unfolding before them.
Commander Obed asks, "Well, Rabbi Schlanger? What do you think?"
Rabbi Schlanger is this Unit's in-house Rabbi. He's here for spiritual guidance, moral support, and to help some of the soldiers keep Kosher, observe the Sabbath, and so on.
He's middle-aged, has a medium graying beard, round face, a slight tan, and dark brown eyes. He's got a large yarmulke on his head.
Commander Obed adjusts his own kippah and sniffs a little, "Those animals...they sliced Yishai's neck!"
Rabbi Schlanger sighs and shakes his head, "Tsk, tsk, tsk. Truly, a terrible tragedy, Commander Gallant. We must pray for the soul of our fallen brother."
"Hmm."
Rabbi Schlanger goes on, "To lose 1 more after Lt. Klein...it's a shame. A great shame."
Commander Obed grunts, "We need to find out who's responsible for this!"
Rabbi Schlanger nods his head, "Indeed. Before he...was savagely murdered, Yishai wanted me to take part in something?"
"Oh?"
"Hmm. There's a small settlement in Hebron. Some of our Lone Soldiers are from there. They are in need of shoes and blankets. Yishai felt strongly about this and asked me to help make an appeal video to our friends in the West."
(Hah! Even after all that imperialist dough flowing into Israel like fucking milk, these asswipes still don't have enough?! More is never enough for such cretin.)
Commander Obed raises his eyebrows, "Such a shame. I think that you should go ahead and make that appeal video, Rabbi Schlanger. Dedicate it to the memory of Yishai."
Rabbi Schlanger nods his head, "Very well. I shall do that. I shall pray for the soul of our fallen soldiers."
Commander Obed nods his head and watches the Rabbi walk away to make a silly begging video for some illegal settlement. His superiors at the ILHC have been made aware of this recent development.
Lt. Raz, if anything, does love to keep her superior's superiors informed of any and all developments in this conflict. She's quite proud of her work. She's got a strong track record of success.
And she wants to keep it that way. Commander Gallant, for his part, is annoyed by how quick she is to report every single thing that happens here.
Commander Gallant readies himself as he logs in to the secure channel. He's got a lot to discuss with his superiors.
ILHC: "We have received word, Commander Gallant. Facility Dalet (HEB: 4) has been invaded by the blank body threat. Did you manage to repel them? Has any sensitive information fallen into their hands?"
OBED: "No. Not that we're aware of. They destroyed most of the tech and didn't seem to take anything with them. However, we lost everyone in the process. Yishai was also killed."
ILHC: "How unfortunate. Please, spare us your platitudes. In less than a week, 2 high-ranking members within the UAE branch of Unit 8211 have been violently murdered. This is unacceptable."
OBED: "I know. I know. I am doing my best here. These things, they're like rats. They emerge out of the shadows, hit us, and run away. They're cowards. But they will be found and exterminated, b'ezrat HaShem."
ILHC: "See to it, Commander Gallant. If you can't get this situation under control, we will have no choice but to order an immediate withdrawal. The costs alone, as it stands, do not justify continuing on in such a hostile environment."
OBED: "Any word on securing additional funding?"
ILHC: "That is not your concern, Commander Gallant. But we are in talks with some private individuals and interested parties. However, without tangible results from your efforts, the likelihood of any meaningful funding materializing is extremely low."
OBED: "Understood. We're working hard here to eliminate the blank body threat and avenge Am Yisrael's fallen. If the Israeli High Command would be able to dispatch additional forces, we would be grateful."
ILHC: "That is out of the question. You have been sent to Al-Kushraf, UAE to perform a specific task and to achieve a very specific objective. If you are unable to achieve said objective, we will have no choice but to consider this mission a failure."
OBED: "I understand that completely, but our resources have taken a significant hit over these past few days."
ILHC: "You will manage with what you have. That is an order. The most that we can do is dispatch a Pave Low from the nearby Al Dhafra Air Base. That should help with some of your issues. Any more than that is out of the question for reasons that are obvious."
OBED: "Thank you for this. We'll make good use of it."
ILHC: "In the meantime, Commander Gallant, you are to find and exterminate the blank body threat. The pilots of the Pave Low have explicit orders to apply the Hannibal Directive. That directive supersedes your own authority. Is that understood?"
OBED: "Yes. Loud and clear."
ILHC: "Remember what is at stake here, Commander Gallant. Continual inefficiencies will result in swift action being taken to correct these errors. You have been warned."
OBED: "Understood. The LVNDR system has come through with some positive results. We're confident that it might help us neutralize the blank body threat."
ILHC: "Do elaborate, Commander Gallant."
OBED: "A few more residential buildings where blank bodies are known to congregate. LVNDR says that there's a 51.86% chance that the flagged individuals are present in the targeted locations. We plan on striking them tomorrow evening, just like last time's operations."
ILHC: "Lt. Maximillian Veifer will be leading the charge?"
OBED: "Yes. He is keen to see these unremarkable structures crumble to the ground and kill all who reside within."
ILHC: "Very well. Do as you must for the good of Am Yisrael, for the freedom and security of the Jewish Nation. Secure complete victory or suffer the total consequences."
OBED: "Yes. As God is my witness, not another one of my brave soldiers will die in vain."
ILHC: "Keep us updated on the situation, Commander Gallant. We will keep you informed of any developments on our end. We will speak soon."
OBED: "Shalom aleichem (HEB: peace be upon you)."
ILHC: "Aleichem shalom (HEB: unto you peace)."
The secretive chat comes to an end. The messages begin to automatically "delete" themselves. Commander Gallant removes his kippah and buries his face in his hands with a long and drawn-out sigh.
Lt. Raz is the first to learn that there is now air support available to the field units. She smirks and continues on with her tasks. She's not going to waste any time.
There are so many other things to do.
For starters, Lt. Raz wants to see a few teams being dispatched to track down any Kindred hiding in the sewers of Al-Kushraf. So far, requests for such have been denied.
The main reason cited was the sheer complexity of the sewer system. It would take too long to find anyone down there and the enemy might know it better than they ever will.
Lt. Veifer is busy assembling some high explosive devices for tomorrow's ops. The LVNDR system has flagged a number of targets. Most of them are residential buildings in low-class neighborhoods.
Sparks fly from whatever bomb Lt. Maximillian is assembling. The smell of gunpowder is strong in the air. He's wearing a welder's mask, thick gloves, and a welder's apron.
Lt. Shem Davidai sifts through some phone calls that might be of interest in generating more leads to tracking the blank body threat. A few of them seem promising.
These assholes now have a helicopter at their disposal. A Pave Low, at that.
Yay.
Sometime later, down in the Nosferatu Warrens...
Samir's face is illuminated by the bright glow of a refurbished laptop. He's looking through some data that has been salvaged off those SD cards. It's a lot of junk to trudge through.
The Assamite sighs and wipes a bloody tear from his eye. He feels his heart ache as he thinks about that grim daylight execution video he saw when he woke up earlier tonight.
Just like Abdullah, all those unfortunate Assamites were defanged, stripped, their heads were shaven, and they were left out for the approaching dawn.
They were burned alive. Their screams, agonizing as they are, continue to echo in Samir's mind.
Samir closes his eyes and rubs his temples. He tries to focus on the task at hand, but his thoughts keep drifting back to that awful scene.
For whatever reason, Tommy saw fit not to show this video to the other Banu Haqim. His reasoning was that they don't need this kind of additional taunting. They nae need that now.
Especially when things are so parlous.
Samir wishes that he didn't see the video. It only added fuel to the fire burning inside of him. He wants vengeance, just like his fellow Assamites he yearns for Judgment to be meted out against their foes.
It is not that long before the sun begins to peek over the horizon, its bright rays shining down on this city.
As Seth prepares to be taken in by the clutches of the day-sleep, he feels the oddly sonorous voice of his Sire, Rafael De La Cruz, echoing in his head.
Rafael's sonorous voice was always meant on radio. Seth used to point it out back then.
Rafael, for his part, would just shrug indifferently.
When it was time for Seth to by-heart the Hymn Of The Pearl, Rafael would often tell his Childe, "Your Blood Brothers- Sean and Shaun- refused to learn the Hymn Of The Pearl. They did not wish to memorize it in its entirety. Stubborn ones, those 2."
Seth blinked, "I'm not them, though? Right?"
"No, my Childe. You are not. Typhon has another plan, another purpose, for you. You know what that fine Hymn truly means now, right?"
"Mm-hmm. Your Sire's journey- from a humble, lowly Revenant to being Embraced. That's quite a journey, if I--I do say so myself."
Rafael lightly chuckled and nodded his head, "Indeed. It is a beautiful tale. Now, get out there."
Seth gulped deeply and looked at the sun peeking over the horizon, "Do--do I have to? I--I mean, out in the sun?"
Rafael sighed and shook his head, "Yes, my son. You must. You must go out into the sun's light, stand out there for a few moments, and come back to me...only when you have memorized every last syllable of this sacred Hymn."
A look of anguish formed on Seth's ticking face. He slowly stepped outside and felt the first rays of sunshine hit his skin. He felt its warmth. He felt the burn.
Rafael watched him with a stern look on his face. He did not waver.
Seth tried to keep his composure as the sun continued to shine down upon him.
He tried not to look at the papers he was holding as he began, "W--When, a quite little child, I was dwelling In the House of my Father’s Kingdom. Aaaaaaaaah!"
His bloodcurdling screams punctured the air. But no one paid any attention to it. Rafael's Ghouls had their orders- the door was to remain shut until Seth Steale recited the Hymn Of The Pearl in its entirety.
(Without looking at the papers that he was holding).
"AAAAAAARGH!" the rays of the rising sun dug deep into his skin and burned it badly.
Seth fell to his knees, but he continued to scream, "And in the wealth and the glories Of my Up-bringers I was delighting. YAAAAARGH! Typhon, have mercy!"
Rafael raised his chin and coldly watched his Childe writhe in pain as the sun continued to fry him slowly, "Continue, my Childe. Continue."
Seth struggled to speak, "T--T--Typhon! PLEASE! NOOOOOOO! AAAARGHRHG!"
Back in the now, Seth tosses and twitches in his dark room. The comfort of his bed does not soothe him. He's trapped in a terrible nightmare, one that has haunted him since that day.
Back then, Seth thought that he was a goner.
He thought that he was going to end up being fried to Final Death.
He was even sure of it.
But, alas, Rafael De La Cruz had other plans in mind for him. He wanted Seth to embrace the pain. He wanted him to become the pain.
Even now, Rafael's oddly sonorous voice rings in Seth's ears, "Fight through the pain, my Childe. Fight through the pain, embrace it. Become the pain, my son. Know that Typhon is with you through it all."
Seth inconsistently babbles, "T--through it all...through it all. Typhon is with me through it all...Apep is with me through it all..." it's not long before the High Priest succumbs to the pull of the day-sleep.