Chapter 16: So Yeah, Primal Terror
In time, the sun gradually rises over the city of Al-Kushraf. The sky becomes a saturated mixture of yellow and orange. A warm and somewhat pleasant breeze wafts through the streets of this vast city, and the mortals wake up and go about their day.
Some commute via the trains, buses, and cars; some walk or cycle to their places of work and/or study. All the while, the many towering skyscrapers stand like giants looming over the masses below.
Yet, all of them remain none the wiser about the massive fight that occurred. Maybe it's better that way, maybe it's better that mortals don't get involved. At all.
That would...complicate things in more ways than 1, and Israelis, being the psychos that they are, are not exactly shy about leaving piles and piles of corpses in their wake.
Speaking of psychos...
Yishai, the Unit 8211 interrogator awakens Aaron Hart by tossing a cold bucket of water right into his face. Aaron is tied to a chair, chained for good measure, and his eyes widen in surprise and fear.
Aaron is wearing nothing but his boxers and his body is covered in numerous scars and bruises. His wrists are sore, and his mouth is very dry. He shudders in fear when he looks at the Israeli thug and swallows the lump forming in his throat.
Yishai is in his indeterminate 40s. He has a salt and pepper beard, a long and round face. He's of medium build and is quite tall. He's wearing a dark blue tank top, cargo pants, and black boots.
He adjusts his blue yarmulke atop his head and gives Aaron a tight backhand slap that makes him see stars. He grunts, "Good morning. Time for a little chat, hmm?"
He grabs Aaron's cheeks and forces the terrified mortal to look into his eyes, "Tell me, do you have anything to say?!"
Aaron's voice quivers when he answers, "I--I don't know anything. My--my name is Aaron Hart. I am an American citizen and a human rights lawyer. I am NOT a--a blank body sympathizer. I--"
Yishai cuts him off by punching him hard in the abdomen. He then grabs Aaron's head and violently yanks it back.
The interrogator laughs and pulls his head back some more, "I am tired of regurgitated and rehearsed answers! What do you know about the blank body by the name of John Suarez?!"
Aaron doesn't answer.
Yishai snarls and yells into Aaron's ear, "I SAID...WHAT DO YOU KNOW ABOUT THE BLANK BODY BY THE NAME OF JOHN SUAREZ?!"
With tears rolling down his cheeks, Aaron stammers, "I--I--I have never heard that name be--before. I don't know any--anyone by that name. Please, you--you--"
Yishai releases his grip from the back of Aaron's head and walks over to a metal table full of torture implements- pliers, tweezers, scalpels, etc.
Yishai's hands tremble a little when he picks up a pair of needle-nose pliers. He turns around and approaches his terrified prisoner, "This will not hurt...much. You will have no reason to scream. Just be still and answer my questions, OK? You would not like to upset me, would you? Huh?"
Aaron shakily gasps, "Get--get that away from me!"
Yishai taunts the poor guy by waving that tool around, close to his face, "Many of my close friends were killed last night...by the very same animals that you have chosen to sympathize with, Mr. Hart."
Aaron's head is violently spinning, and he can taste his own blood on the tip of his tongue, "I...I know nothing about any--any of that. My--my name is Aaron Hart, human rights lawyer. I have rights, I know them--"
Another vicious backhand cuts Aaron off. Yishai spits on the ground and punches Aaron's face. Hard. He grabs Aaron's face, digs his fingers into the skin, and says, "Your rights...they do not exist here, not when I am asking the questions! So, tell me, who are you really?!"
Yishai presses the tip of his pliers against Aaron's sweaty neck. The lawyer gulps and begins trembling, "I--I'm Aaron Hart, an American citi--"
Yishai throws the pliers away and wraps his hands around Aaron's neck. He screams like the madman he is and squeezes the life out of the poor guy who has nothing to do with any of this.
Aaron's eyes bug out, and his entire face turns red. He can't breathe, and he can't scream either. All he can do is silently suffer and watch as the Israeli goon tightens his grip on his throat.
Aaron's entire body quivers and a wet spot appears in his boxers. His vision darkens and the sounds of Yishai's yelling fade away.
Short of nearly killing Mr. Hart, Yishai's barbaric methods produce absolutely no results. He lets go of Aaron's neck and scoffs, "Tch. I expected more out of you. Pity."
After a few moments, Yishai picks up a bottle of orange juice and empties its contents all over Aaron's head. Aaron weakly sputters, coughs, and gasps for air. His eyes are bloodshot, and he's shaking uncontrollably.
Yishai sighs and looks at his watch. He callously says, "There, breakfast is done. Now, where were we, hmm?"
Aaron musters up a tiny bit of energy and rocks on his chair, screaming, "YOU CAN'T DO THIS TO ME! My name is Aaron Hart. I--I am a human rights lawyer from the United States of America! YOU HAVE NO RIGHT TO DO THIS TO ME!"
Yishai looks at his pliers and grins, "You have no rights over here, only answers."
He shakes his head and marches towards the bound-up mortal.
He cups Aaron's face with his grimy hands and looks directly into his fear-ridden eyes, "Answers which I will get out of you- 1 way or the other. My friends, good men and women, were killed by your friends last night."
"I--I don't--"
"Tell me what I wish to hear, and I promise to make it quick, yes? You up against the wall and a bullet in the head- it'll be over in seconds. Fail to talk and I will make you regret every single decision you have made in your pathetic excuse of a life, Mr. Hart...or whatever your name REALLY is."
Aaron gulps and his eyes are wide as can be. He feels sick, his body is at its breaking point, he has been deprived of sleep for DOZENS upon DOZENS of hours- whether through loud kid's music blaring through the speakers, repeated beatings, or being forced to stand against a cold wall for hours on end.
Aaron doesn't know how long it's been since he was taken- his sense of time has been so warped down in this damp, nondescript concrete structure a few meters below ground.
He's so lost and confused and afraid and exhausted and his whole body is sore and aching all over.
The Israeli lunatic leans in and whispers into Aaron's ear, "Where are your friends? Who are they? How long have they been in the UAE? Were they at the Marjan Tower? Is that why you're here?"
Aaron pants. His head goes round and round like a merry-go-round. He blinks a few times, "Article 5 of The Universal Declaration of Human Rights states that--that 'no one shall be subjected to torture or to cruel, inhuman, or degrading treatment or punishment.'"
Yishai hisses, "Fuck the UN, fuck the ECHR, fuck the UDHR, the Geneva Convention, fuck all of them. As Israelis, we've had ENOUGH of these pompous animals telling us what to do!"
He angrily picks up a shock stick, jams it against Aaron's chest, and lets loose. He grits his teeth, and his expression hardens as Aaron's body violently convulses, and his boxers are thoroughly soaked.
After a solid minute, he turns off the shock stick and grunts, "That's just a tiny, TINY taste of what I have in store for you, you fucking blank body-lover!"
Aaron's sweating buckets, his chest feels like it's on fire, his eyes are bloodshot, and he barely has the energy to cry, let alone let out a whimper or a moan.
Yishai sneers, "What is your connection to John Suarez?! Hm? What is it? Who were the others with him?!"
Aaron shivers.
"WHO WERE THEY?! WHAT ARE THEIR NAMES?! WHERE DID THEY GO?! WHERE ARE YOUR OTHER BLANK BODY FRIENDS HIDING?! ARE THEY IN THIS CITY! FUCKING ANSWER ME!"
Aaron chokes on his words and tries to speak. He gasps for air, "M--my name--name is--Aaron--Hart. I'm an American--I'm an American citi--"
Yishai throws the shock stick to the ground and storms off. He slams his fists against the door and yells, "HE'S NOT SAYING ANYTHING! FUCK!"
Damn, somebody better rescue poor Aaron...and soon. He can't hold out forever- no one can. What happens after can be figured out on the way. One can hope that the Blade is fast enough to get him away from these fucking maniacs.
Anyways, the sun begins its ever so slow descent towards the horizon, and the mortals of this sprawling city resume their evening activities and pursuits. Most of them go home or head to wherever it is they choose to spend their evenings.
Once that fiery ball has made its retreat, the Kindred in this Domain awaken from their day-long slumber.
Svetlana is awakened by the sounds of little Chloe giggling, followed by a squeaky voice that says, "Setlana! Setlana"
The Wraith child's small (and flickering) form is sitting on the edge of Svetlana's bed and waving at her.
Svetlana forces a faint smile and weakly returns the gesture. She then groans as she struggles out of her bed. The spectral girl jumps up and follows her Fetter.
Svetlana crosses her arms and looks down at the poor child, all wide-eyed, innocent, and (blissfully) clueless about her current state of Undeath. She wants to say something to the shimmering child, but the words fail to leave her mouth.
Chloe tilts her head, "What's wrong, Setlana??" Her voice is somewhat ethereal. It's soft, but clear, like a child's. Yet, the echo makes her sound otherworldly. She also sounds very...distant yet nearby at the same time.
Svetlana sighs deeply and crouches down to face the Wraith child, "I must take bath now. You go and wait for me, da?"
The Wraith kid earnestly nods her head and zooms off. She giggles, and her hazy form disappears through a solid wall. Svetlana looks at this and lets out another sigh.
From there, she proceeds to take a nice, warm bath. No matter where the Fetter goes, the Wraith will be close by, too. Did little Chloe witness the violence that her Fetter committed last night?
One can hope she at least shut her eyes when Svetlana was stabbing the shit out of those Unit 8211 agents.
John wakes up and checks his phone. He sees a message from his boss, Master-P, which reads: "Good evening, Mr. Suarez. I have a few clients that I would like 4 u to train tonite. How about it? Big $$$"
The Assamite clicks his tongue and winces. He texts back: "Sorry, Praveen. Not tonite. I got something else that requires my immediate attention."
Within a minute, John's phone buzzes with a reply: "Ayoyo, what is this, habibi? You cannot do like this, John. I have a bloody business to run, man."
John's fingers dance across the virtual keyboard: "Look, I'm really sorry, alright? I wish there were another way, but there isn't, OK?"
"What is this urgent thing u are attending 2 anyway????"
"It's personal."
"Very well. But, if u keep doing like this, then i will have no other choice but to let u go, John habibi. U r a talented Kenpo instructor, so pls finish whatever u have to do and don't waste our time like this, yes?"
John sniffs and rubs his eyes a few times: "Sure, sure. Thanks, Praveen. And take care."
Praveen simply replies with a thumbs-up emoji. John puts his phone aside and does a few sit-ups before heading for the shower. There's a long night ahead for these bloodsuckers!
After he's done bathing, John texts his Childe: "I'll come over and pick u up."
Svetlana is wiping her hair with a towel. She had decided to wash it tonight, so her blonde hair is somewhat shinier than usual, it also smells like roses. She puts the towel aside and types a simple response: "Da. OK." 
Svetlana takes her sweet time getting dressed. She opts for something practical- jeans and a simple blouse with faded geometric patterns on it. Her shoes are black ankle-boots. She still has a little bit of mascara and some eyeliner left, so she applies that.
She packs her 2 daggers into her bag, and some cash as well. Then, she walks out into the living room and sits down on her couch, staring blankly into nothing.
Little Chloe's ethereal giggles interrupt the Assamite's silent moment of contemplation. Svetlana exhales sharply and looks in the direction of the noise. Her mouth is set in a grim line, and her green eyes are filled with...sadness and anxiety.
The spectral child zooms around and stops right in front of Svetlana. Her head is tilted, and there's a small smile on her face, "Can we play Barbie, Setlana?"
Svetlana sighs and her shoulders slump a little. She flatly says, "Not tonight, malen'kiy (RU: little one)."
The child pouts and begins to flicker.
After some very long and tense silence, there's a knock at the door. Svetlana gets up, opens the door, and sees her Sire standing outside. He looks fresh, and he's wearing jeans, sneakers, and a black hoodie. His hands are stuffed inside the pockets of his jacket.
She moves aside and lets him in. He takes a look around the place and nods approvingly, "Heh, you keep it clean. Yeah, haha, nice, nice. Love what you've done with the place."
He sits on the sofa and joins his cold hands together, "Um...taxi's waiting outside, but I wanted to talk to you before we head out."
Svetlana sits next to her Sire and looks at him, "Da. Talk about what?"
John's gaze is downcast and he looks a little uneasy, "It's about Abdullah. I'm worried for him."
She remains silent and prompts him to go on.
He does so, "You know he was only 19 when he got Embraced, right?"
"Da. What is worrying you, John?"
John looks into his Childe's eyes and directly asks, "That Irish Tremere you're friends with. Saoirse, right? You think she can help us out in our...err...fight against these SI bastards?"
Svetlana shakes her head and answers, "Nyet. She is busy with work."
John clicks his tongue and winces slightly, "Dammit. S--Sorry. It's just that we could use another Blood Sorcerer. I don't wanna...stretch Abdullah too thin when we're out there fighting. You saw what he did last night, right?"
"Da. It was...impressive, no?"
John points out, "It sure was, heh. But, it takes a lotta skill...and a lot more Blood to do stuff like that. That's why...well, never mind." He lets out a tired sigh and hangs his head. He runs his hands over his face and exhales slowly.
His head feels like it's spinning and there's an ache deep in his chest. It's been there since last night's battle against the SI menace. While most of the outward wounds have mended themselves over these last few hours, the inner wounds still ache like hell.
He takes a few more breaths and says, "Just promise me 1 thing."
"For you, anything."
John gulps, "Let's promise to watch each others' backs out there, OK? Abdullah and Zeina managed to convince the others to meet us at some old warehouse. After we fled Dubai, we uh...didn't really get much of a chance to catch up."
He smiles weakly and adds, "A lot of them are asking about you."
Svetlana gingerly puts her hand on her Sire's back and nods, "Da. I am looking forward to seeing them after...so long."
John comments, "Even though it's only been a few weeks since...all of that, it still feels like it was forever ago."
"Da," the Assamite Neonate looks to the side, almost wistfully.
John asks, again, "Are you sure Saoirse won't be able to help us?"
Svetlana silently shakes her head.
John then gets up from the sofa and heads to the front door. He turns around before leaving, "I'll uh...wait downstairs. I already fed, by the way. You might wanna grab someone from around here. Traffic's heavy and we've got a long way--"
Just then, a power cut hits and everything is shrouded in total darkness. Svetlana's face is bathed in a bluish light that comes from a nearby emergency lamp that's plugged in.
There's a faint moan in the apartment block that cuts off a few moments later.
John remarks, "Damn, here too, huh? Same problem back in my Haven. Hmm. I'll see you when you're ready. Don't take too long." He pulls out his phone and uses the flashlight app to see better. Then, he closes the door and walks out into the corridor.
After the power comes back, he heads downstairs, leans against the wall, and waits.
Svetlana sees little Chloe's Wraith reappear. She's shimmering and phasing in and out. She innocently asks, "Are we going somewhere?"
Svetlana nods, "Da. I will be gone for some time. I do not know how long."
The Wraith protests and whooshes about, "Noooo, Setlana! No go! Stay with me and help find me Barbie!"
Svetlana tries her best to fight back the torrent of sanguine tears forming in her eyes, "I...cannot. Not now, please. I--I must go."
The Assamite sincerely hopes that the Wraith kid doesn't appear at the most inopportune moment, like when she's in the middle of a fight or something.
That would be most unfortunate and very distracting. And given how last night's fight went, even a moment's distraction could prove to be quite catastrophic.
(Especially with incendiary weapons now in play).
Svetlana grabs her bag, her 2 daggers, and locks her front door. The last thing she sees is little Chloe's ghostly form just standing there, all sad and confused. It hurts the Assamite a lot, but what other choice does she have?
Bring-your-Wraith-child-to-work-night is not a thing. Especially when the current "work" does involve copious amounts of violence and bloodshed.
(Violence against the very individuals most responsible for the death of little Chloe and the rest of those poor souls at the AJRT).
Svetlana takes the service staircase. The walls are quite grimy and the white fluorescent lights incessantly flicker. The floor is covered with old stains and smells of...something. There's a fire extinguisher near the door at the bottom of the staircase, to which the Assamite pays no heed.
She spots a lithe woman lolling about the place. She's dressed in plain casual wear, has a few piercings on her ears and a stud on her lower lip. She has an aura of disillusionment about her.
Svetlana's inner Beast compels her to lunge forward and take blood from that woman. Given the events of last night, Svetlana is gonna need a little more than usual if she's gonna keep using her Obfuscate Discipline.
Still, she has no intent of killing whoever this chick is. It's quite the balancing act for a Kindred who finds themselves in such circumstances, no doubt.
So, Svetlana sticks to the shadows and creeps forward. When the woman turns around, the Banu Haqim lunges forward and chomps down on that poor mortal's neck.
Svetlana's fangs dig deep and the woman cries out, but the Assamite silences her with a firm hand clasped over the mouth. She drinks the mortal's blood, but only takes what she needs- not a single drop more.
When the Beast within is satisfied, Svetlana licks the wound, making sure it's sealed shut. She gently places the unconscious woman against a wall and rushes out.
John is in the taxi, simply staring out the window. He sees the city's bright, dazzling lights, its towering skyscrapers, the vehicles whizzing about, and the many, many people going about their business.
They all remain oblivious to the skirmish brewing just beneath the surface. A struggle that will shake the very foundations of this sprawling metropolis.
Svetlana hops into a cab with her Sire. The ride is somewhat quiet, save for the music the driver has put on. It's some funky Arabic pop song that John can't help but bop his head to.
His Childe, on the other hand, watches the city go by in a blur. The warm breeze sweeps her hair and her mind races with a million thoughts.
She looks over at her Sire and thinks to herself, "Why does he seem so...troubled?" She can sense something's wrong. There's a certain vibe about him that's...kinda off.
Oddly enough, despite not looking at his Childe, John's wondering the same thing, "She seems...distant. More so than usual. Is everything alright with her? Is she doing OK? Goddamn, I should really sit down and talk to her sometime, but when?"
An hour later...
That taxi ride was a lot longer (and pricier!) than expected. Svetlana pays a part of the fare and John thanks her for doing so. After walking a few meters, the 2 Assamites find themselves staring at a long-disused warehouse building.
There's a few empty cars parked nearby. A few bright lights can be spotted in some of the nearby midrise buildings that pepper this part of the city.
The ground below their feet is hard and rough. Svetlana looks around and clutches her bag tightly. John slings his guitar case over his shoulder and nods his head towards the warehouse's entrance.
"Well, no time like the present. C'mon, Svetlana. Let's go."
"Da. Let's."
The 2 of them stride to a side entrance and push the rusty door open. John looks at his Childe and whispers, "You ready?"
She nods her head and looks into her Sire's eyes, "Da. I am. You?"
John smirks, "Always."
Inside, there's about 4 dozen (or so) Blade of Haqim members milling about the place. They're all talking to each other in very hush-hush tones, and they look like a bunch of people who truly do blend in with the crowd.
A few of them approach Svetlana and give her a big hug. A few others simply smile and nod their heads in her direction. Some of them are a bit cold and indifferent.
It's not like they have a grudge or something against the Neonate, it's just that they don't really know her all that well.
They're all quite ordinarily dressed, working-class vampires that are now in the midst of a strange city for the past few weeks. Sadly, many of them are yet to find dignified employment in this place.
That kind of anguish and lingering uncertainty is reflected on their ashy, hollow-cheeked faces. Some openly brandish their various weapons (of the melee variety only).
They're called the "Blade of Haqim", not the "AR-15 of Haqim"! It's generally considered dishonorable to slay a foe (Kindred or otherwise) with firearms- blades are the way to go for this lot, for better or for worse.
John greets a few of them with tight handshakes and speaks to a few others. Abdullah and Zeina are in separate corners, each mingling with their fellow Assassins and what have you.
Abdullah wildly gesticulates and speaks to some people in Arabic; he's likely talking about last night's battle. Zeina nods along, dryly, at something some older-looking man with a beard is telling her.
Well, this is the Blade of Haqim in Al-Kushraf, UAE. Or whatever remains of them after the events of the past few weeks. There's a lot more than them, but many fled to Turkey after the raid on Dubai.
There's many reasons why they fled, but vamps gotta eat, too. They've got roofs that absolutely need to be over their heads during the day. And given the lack of stable employment in this city, it's not too hard to see why many sought to go to Turkey.
(A few even went back to their home countries as well).
Zeina and Abdullah catch sight of John and Svetlana and make their way over to them. Abdullah looks quite pleased to see his fellow Assamite, and he hugs her.
He greets her, "As-salamu alaykum."
Svetlana smiles and greets him back, "Wa alaykumu s-salam. How are you keeping, Abdullah?"
Abdullah shrugs, "Still a little sore from last night's fight, but I am ready for anything." His tone does demonstrate more confidence than usual.
John pats him on the shoulder, "Don't worry, we've got your back out there. Right, Zeina?"
Zeina nods, "Yes, of course we do. We've been waiting for quite a long time. Are you sure this Nosferatu will show up??"
John plainly answers, "Yeah, he'll show up. He has to."
As if on cue, that same side entrance door groans open and in walks the Nossie Primogen, Tommy. Garth is following him closely.
Both of them stop in their tracks and their sickly eyes widen at the sheer number of Assamites packed into this structure.
Garth remarks, "Cor blimey!"
Tommy exclaims, "Aye, got a whole party in this gaffe, eh?"
Both of these Crawlers are wearing face coverings (for obvious reasons). Both of them are dressed in rather tattered suits that have clearly seen better times.
John approaches Tommy and puts his hands on his hips, "Well, about damn time! What took you 2 so long?"
Tommy holds out his deformed hand and calms the jumpy Assamite down, "Aye, nae bother, pal. Nae bother. Calm doon. Simmer doon."
Garth sighs and explains, "Power outages all over the city. The grid's practically at its limit and it's having an adverse effect on our...SchreckNet infrastructure down in the sewers. Bandwidth's been stretched lately and we had to shut off some some things."
Tommy grunts, "Aye, it's fockin' mental doon there, so nae be giving us none yer pish, awright?" He sounds gruffer...than usual.
Garth quickly intervenes, "What he means to say is...don't add to our existing problems. As it is, we're risking quite a lot. Helping you lot is not going to be as easy as we would've imagined, what with all the recent...setbacks in our delicate systems."
John gets a little annoyed and this reflects in his tone, "So, DO you have anything for us, then?"
Tommy blanks out and mutters, "You have nae a scooby of how bad it is."
Garth sharply exhales and takes his fellow Nossie to a corner and sternly whispers something to him.
After that, he returns and says, "He's...clearly in a sour mood. Apologies."
Tommy growls.
Garth glares at his friend and implores, "Thomas, please."
The Nossie Primogen holds his hands up and says, "Awright, awright. Fine. Pfft."
John presses his lips into a thin line and asks, "What happened, anyway?"
Tommy growls and shakes his head, "We lost a few of our own to a fire. Had to put it out, but we were too late. There's some damage here and there."
Garth pensively lowers his head and clasps his hands together in front of him.
The Nosferatu Primogen goes on, "Aye, since the leccy's been all over the gaffe, it's been no easy keeping our servers and computer infrastructure down in the sewers safe."
Svetlana gasps and asks, "What about the information we gave you from SD cards?"
Tommy sighs and pulls out another chunky PDA with numerous map markings on it. He hands it to John, "Aye, aye. There's that. Garth did all the heavy lifting there, the clever bastard he is."
Garth's face is still lowered, "I tried my best, friends. There's...a lot of data that we still need to sift through. It's also not all perfect, given recent circumstances."
John flicks through the PDA and finds red splotches of what appear to be more SI patrol routes. He perches an eyebrow and inquires, "More patrol routes? Is that it?"
Tommy shakes his head and produces a printout of words.
Abdullah takes it, looks it over, and his face scrunches in confusion, "What is this, habibi?"
Tommy gestures for Garth to explain, which he does, "It's a list of keywords that the SI are currently scanning for. I told you about it last night. It's a rotating list. I believe this should still be valid for a...few more hours, at best."
Zeina steps forward and raises her chin, "What do you expect us to do with...this?"
Tommy is about to raise his voice, but Garth (once again) interjects and answers, "What you do best, of course. With that list and the patrol routes, you have an opportunity to...err...shuffle the board around a bit."
John shrugs, "Hmm, not what I was expecting, but sure." He looks over his shoulder and can feel the eagerness of his fellow Assamites. They're ready to fight.
Ready to Judge.
Svetlana comments, "Is risky, no?"
John answers his Childe, "Garth's right, Svetlana. With this, we could shuffle the board around. Split up in small teams and whittle the SI down."
Abdullah folds his arms, "How 'small' should our 'teams' be? Personally, I think it is wiser if we worked together and overwhelmed these accursed Zionists with our might and power."
Zeina signals her agreement with a low grunt, but doesn't say anything else. She trusts John's judgment and will follow his lead, no questions asked. He's been solid so far.
So far.
John glances at his Childe and gently smiles, "What do you think, Svetlana? Should we split up? Remember, we could cover more ground that way. Going together would only attract attention to us, and we don't need that right now."
Svetlana mulls it all over in her head. There's clear advantages and disadvantages to both proposed ideas; splitting up would mean less numbers, but it'd allow for more efficient hit-and-run moves. Moreover, overwhelming the Unit 8211 threat could backfire.
Svetlana nods and responds, "Is better for us to split up. Small teams. Maybe 10 or 12 each?"
Abdullah plainly gestures, "Hmm, yes. 10 or 12 would be ideal. Last night, the 4 of us barely got by." He looks aside, shakes his head, and recalls the carnage of the night before- the gunfire, the actual fire, the screams, and blood.
So much blood.
John puts his hand on Abdullah's shoulder and gives it a gentle squeeze, "Hey, hey, it's gonna be alright? OK? We've got your back out there, don't worry."
Abdullah weakly smiles and thanks John for the reassurance.
Svetlana looks at the PDA in her Sire's hands and has this really bad feeling that something is about to go very wrong tonight. Very, very wrong.
But she pushes that feeling aside. She must be strong, not only for herself but also for her Clan and her Sire.
John looks at Tommy with some expectation plastered on his face, "Uh...any suggestions?"
Tommy shrugs, "You lot seem tae know what you're doing..." Judging by his tone, his mind is clearly elsewhere. Losing people like that cannot be easy, especially for a bunch of close-knit, out of sight Nosferatu who have only each other and a few Touchstones to rely upon in times good and bad.
John blows a sharp raspberry and takes a good look around the place. A lot of Assamites are ready to fight, but are they ready for the fight of their Unlives? Only time will tell.
Svetlana suggests, "We should ask others before making choice, no?"
John nods, "Yep, you're right. C'mon, let's go."
John and his Childe approach a tall man in his 30s. He's tall, has a dark complexion and a neatly trimmed beard. He's wearing a loose thawb and is brandishing a poignard in his right hand.
The weapon is sharp and pointy and has a few scratched engravings on its handle. The man seems a little tense, but his expression softens when he sees Svetlana.
That would be Samir. He hails from Iraq and earned himself a name amongst the Iraqi Banu Haqim as a skilled fighter against US soldiers invading his homeland.
He has killed (Judged) plenty of those stormtroopers, as is his right (and perhaps duty) to resist such horrors under the purview of international law.
Now, he's here in the UAE in the hopes of finding work and a fresh start. Alas, that hasn't exactly been the case, but he remains devoted to the Blade.
Samir greets Svetlana with a gentle bow of the head, "As-salamu alaykum, Svetlana. It has been...far too long."
Svetlana greets him back, "Wa alaykumu s-salam, Samir. How are you keeping?"
Samir smiles at John and replies, "I am keeping well. It has been a struggle for all of us ever since we were driven from Dubai, but I hope that Al-Kushraf is the city where we will find some peace."
John smiles and greets him back, "Hey, how's it going?" He extends a hand. Samir graciously accepts and they share a firm handshake.
John asks his fellow Assamite, "So, how are the others keeping? I haven't had much of a chance to speak to any of 'em since the...y'know. It was--well, we were all taken by surprise. It's hard to think it was all just a few weeks ago."
Zeina comments, "Yes. The Inquisitors must pay for their treachery!"
Abdullah cuts in, "I do not disagree. We are eager to bring the Blade down on the necks of the Zionists." His tone is very matter of fact and straight to the point. He's ready to fight. Ready to Judge.
Samir remarks, "I understand, my friend. The events of the past few weeks have not been easy for any of us. Some, however, have struggled more than others." He sounds somewhat sympathetic.
John inquires, "Oh yeah? I--I heard a lot of you were struggling to find a job? Damn, that sucks."
Samir plainly nods, "Yes, habibi. I can code in at least 4 different languages, yet I can't find a decent job. No one wants an Iraqi refugee in their ranks, it seems." His voice is tinged with bitter disappointment.
Samir's gaze lowers and John's undead heart aches a bit for him.
Samir looks at Svetlana, and his voice grows more solemn, "Svetlana, how do you fare? You are, after all, still considered the youngest and newest addition to our ranks. 5 years since your Embrace, yes? How do you find...Unlife so far?"
Svetlana forces a smile, "Is not ideal, but--"
She looks to her Sire with gratitude and adds, "--I am grateful that John and Abdullah saved me."
Samir was actually the one who taught Svetlana how to hone and utilize her Obfuscate Discipline. John initially wanted to get her to learn Celerity (like him), but she showed a natural inclination to Obfuscate, and Samir was all the gladder to share his sanguine knowledge with the then-Fledgling.
Svetlana's voice takes on a more serious note, "I...am also sad about loss of the other Kindred, especially Prince Angela. Is not good for us to suffer such losses."
A small tear of blood rolls down her eye, but she wipes it away and looks at her Sire with determination and strength, "We must find those responsible and...Judge them."
The 5 spend some time talking about recent happenings (especially in and around the MENA region), Unlife, work, and how they've been adjusting.
It's been tough on all the Assamites gathered in this joint. After a few minutes, John walks up to the front of the warehouse and shouts, "Excuse me, everybody!" Everyone falls silent and turns their eyes and ears towards him.
Tommy and Garth stand at the front and fix their respective gazes on Mr. Suarez.
John gulps and begins, "It's been a while, huh? Yeah, it has. T--truth be told, I was expecting a whole lot more of us, but the last few weeks haven't exactly been kind to us. I--I don't blame the others for wanting to go to Turkey or wherever."
A few appreciative nods and mumbles come John's way. Some others grunt and shrug, but he continues, "Now, you're all probably wondering why we're gathered here."
He beckons to the 2 Nossies and explains, "These 2 Nosferatu have been kind enough to aid us in our...err...task."
Some chick from the back, with a heavy accent, asks, "What is our task, John?? What can you expect the Blade to do in this city?"
Without skipping a beat, John answers, "Wiping out the SI- all of them."
Gasps and shocked exclamations erupt from the gathered Assamites. Some seem quite apprehensive; others are excited and eager. Still, others are indifferent and unsure of the proposition. It's a mixed bag.
A male Assamite pipes up, "Are you mad? You want us to wage a war against them? What of the Masquerade?" His tone is incredulous, and his facial expression reflects it.
John's eyebrows shoot up momentarily and he claps his hands a few times to get the room's attention, "Hey, hey, look- I understand that you're all a bit skeptical, but...listen. Just listen."
He goes on, "We lost people in the raid on Dubai. Our Prince is gone. Many of you are struggling to find a decent job and a roof over your heads, and it's been tough, real tough. I get it, believe me I do."
He nervously laughs, "My own landlord is on my ass and demanding that I cough up the rent soon. But that's beside the point- look, we all fled here because we didn't have any other choice. That Tremere bastard in Abu Dhabi wouldn't let any of us in."
He pauses and licks his lips, "So, we turned to Al-Kushraf...and maybe, just maybe, this could be the city of our dreams."
John takes a moment to gather his thoughts. He paces around and makes eye-contact with several of his fellow Kindred. They all look quite curious and are eagerly waiting to hear more.
John sighs and continues, "We have a real opportunity here, friends. To--to bite back. We can get the bastards who drove us out of Dubai and nearly destroyed all the Gangrel. N--Not to mention our own Primogen, Hassan."
Even though Hassan was not of the Blade, he was VERY supportive of their cause, nonetheless. He was destroyed along with many on that fateful evening.
Someone from the front raises his fist and states, "We must avenge Hassan! The Zionists MUST pay for their wickedness!!" Everyone (bar the 2 Nosferatu) shout and yell in agreement.
They were very, VERY close with the late, great Hassan. He was a great Primogen of his Clan who did all he could to keep the local Kindred population together and watch over them.
2 of his Childer were mercilessly slain. Those who were spared fled with the rest of the Assamites, out of pure desperation.
John's eyes grow misty with blood, and he holds his chin high. His voice grows stern, "Look- I'm not going to pretend this will be easy. As it is, the 4 of us had a hell lotta trouble fighting about a dozen or so of these bastards last night."
Some more gasps and sounds of shock permeate the room. Uncertainty is rearing its head.
After everyone has quieted down, John says, "So, you're probably wondering how these 2 fine Nosferatu gentlemen play into all this, huh?"
John leans forward and whispers to Tommy, "You uh...mind coming up here?"
Tommy accepts, but Garth declines by stating, "Stage fright. A--apologies."
Tommy greets these Banu Haqim, "Awright, people- as your wee friend here was saying- my name is Thomas and this is Garth. How's it going? We're both Nosferatu from down in the sewers, and we've been given the go-ahead to assist ye in your task or mission or whatever yous wanna call it."
The Nossie Primogen steps closer and addresses the crowd, "We are going after the SI in this Domain, but we will need help. This is not fight we can win alone, so we must work together, aye?"
A lady in a hijab queries, "How? How can we fight against such wicked and powerful forces? There are not enough of us to go around. Perhaps we should try and contact some other groups outside the Domain? Archons, maybe?"
Garth looks over his shoulder and answers, "That is a perfectly reasonable idea, and you are absolutely correct. But--"
Tommy points out, "It's no' as easy as that, hen. As much as I'd love to summon a few Archons, maybe a few wee Justicars, the truth is..." He glances at Garth, then at John.
John sighs deeply, "...the Domain's High Priest is apprehensive about getting them involved. I--I guess he has his own reasons for doing so."
Another female Assamite comments, "If that is the case, then what do you suggest we do?"
Tommy steps back while John takes over. He holds the PDA in 1 hand the list of keywords being scanned for in the other, "With this, we could get the drop on these sons of bitches and really whittle their numbers down."
Murmurs reflecting the cluelessness of his comrades are heard. John goes on, "Here's what I propose: we split up in teams of 10 and, um...make a few phone calls- that should draw these SI bastards straight to you--"
The Assamite corrects himself, "Well, it should draw them straight into the ambush, anyway. They can't hit all of us at once if we're not all gathered together at the same place."
A tall, burly male Assamite shakes his head and disagrees, "No, habibi! We must strike with all the power and might of the Blade and cut down these wicked Zionists! TOGETHER!" He growls into the air and his fangs glisten menacingly in the dim lighting.
The Assamite next to him concurs, "He is right, John. If we work together and use all of our numbers, then surely, we will be able to overcome their technology and power."
Other Assamites see the logic in the plan being proposed by John. A lady in plain casuals says, "In teams of 10, we could make it look like there are 20 of us...or more! Walla, it is a good strategy! The Zionists will not know what hit them!"
Zeina chimes in, "I agree. Splitting apart will give us an advantage over these Zionist dogs."
Abdullah also concurs and gives his vote of confidence to John's plan.
Svetlana has a slightly conflicted expression on her face. She looks up at her Sire with an inquisitive gaze but says nothing.
John looks a bit out of his element here. An argument is brewing amongst the Assamites. Some are for the idea whilst some are against it. It's not exactly ideal, all things considered.
Tommy tries to calm the situation down, "Hold on, hold on, hold on- wan at a bloody time, aye?"
Garth remarks, "Indeed. Let's keep the peace here, shall we? We cannot afford to fight each other, especially right now. This is no time for petty squabbling."
His voice is drowned out by lively gesticulating, loud (but not necessarily hostile) banter, and general commotion.
John and his Childe look on and are not entirely sure of how to calm the room down.
Samir steps up and holds up his poignard. It glistens and reflects the light in the warehouse. He speaks loudly and clearly, "QUIET, EVERYONE!"
The room goes silent and all eyes fall on him. He clears his throat and addresses his fellow Assamites, "Now, I understand that everyone is feeling quite nervous. It is, after all, a very big mission that is being presented to us."
He adds, "And after all we have suffered through, reprieve is something many of us rightly deserve, but the scum who drove us from our Domain are here, and that will not change if we simply sit around and wait."
His voice grows louder, "We have an opportunity before us, and it is one that would enable us to AVENGE our fellow Cainites! Now, silence, my dear friends. Let John say what he must. We will decide after he has spoken, yes?"
Mutters of assent are heard. Samir takes a few steps back and rejoins the group.
John nervously smiles and says, "T--thanks, Samir. Anyway, as I was saying: the plan is pretty straightforward."
He goes over the idea in its entirety- use the info provided by the Nosferatu to split the Inquisitors up and hit 'em hard when they eventually show up at the designated locations.
After he's done, Zeina questions, "What if some of them do not respond?"
John looks at her and answers, "C'mon, Zeina. These Israeli maniacs will never give up on a chance to get at 1 of us, especially if we present ourselves as easy pickings. Besides, it's not like they've got anything else to do, right?"
Svetlana nods in agreement, "Da, I think is good idea. We must attack but be smart. Not dumb. They are not stupid, so we must be careful."
John smiles and adds, "That's why we've gotta be a little clever, and, well, this is a good place to start. Well, as good a place as any, really."
Some older-looking Assamite (likely in his 70s) asks Tommy, "Is this all you have for us, sir? Is there nothing else you Crawlers can do for us?"
Tommy replies, "Look, mate- I understand yer frustration. I--I really do. Yes, this is all we can do at the moment."
Garth chimes in, "We've experienced some...problems as of late, but we remain committed to helping you lot wipe the Second Inquisition from this...country."
Gasps of incredulous shock and surprise are heard from the crowd. Abdullah looks at his 4 fellow Assamites, and they share a silent moment.
Tommy goes on, "Look, we cannae go around promising miracles."
Someone from the middle asks, "Then what do you suggest? What can we do against their overwhelming might??"
John easily answers that, "What we do best- Judge them. All."
He takes on a more sympathetic expression and joins his hands together, "Look, I know that everyone gathered here tonight has, in some way or the other, been affected by the monstrous actions of the State of Israel..."
Many heads are pensively lowered. Some even begin to tear up, red blood streaming down their faces. The loss, the pain, the suffering endured weighs down on these gathered Assamites.
John continues. He gestures to a few in the crowd, "You've told me how these Israeli bastards razed your village. You've told me how they massacred your entire family. And I...I still can't believe what--what they did to those poor children..."
His voice grows bitter and filled with disgust, "We have a chance here, people. Not just a chance to fight back, but a chance to bite back. Oh, these assholes know what we are and we know what they are."
He gesticulates and fervently states, "They call US the monsters, but we're a whole lot more than they'll ever be...warts and all. Their hearts might still beat, but they have no Humanity."
Everyone is silent and are hanging on to John's every word. He has their undivided attention.
He paces and clenches his fist, "I feel almost compelled to share this quote with you: 'Every drop of blood drawn with the lash shall be paid by another drawn with the sword.'"
He smiles faintly, "It's from Abraham Lincoln, heh. Changing what needs to changed, of course, we'll do what needs to be done, what HAS TO BE DONE! WHAT SHOULD BE DONE! It needs to be done!"
John's smile grows wider, "We've got the numbers and the skill. If we work together, we can overcome their weapons and technology. I promise you that. Now, who's with me? We can do it. We can, I trust you. I know almost all of you here by name, and I KNOW we can do it. Together!"
Many of the Assamites nod their heads and grunt in approval.
He holds his arms out wide. Almost the entire room raises their arms in the air and enthusiastically shouts, "DEATH TO ISRAEL! FREE PALESTINE! LONG LIVE THE BLADE OF HAQIM!"
Even the 2 Nosferatu raise a tentative, but appreciative arm. John and Svetlana's lips curve into smiles of gratitude.
The energy in here is quite something.
John looks at Tommy and Garth and they nod approvingly, as do Zeina and Abdullah.
John Suarez was a writer at 1 time, but not of rousing speeches or anything of that sort.
John's eyes widen and his jaw drops. His mind is a little blown away. He had expected to be rejected outright or to be met with a whole lot more pushback and skepticism.
A short man from the front comments, "Very well, John habibi. We will go along with your plan. The Blade will Judge these foul Zionists and send them scattering with the very sands of the desert."
His fellow Assamites and Svetlana agree. John sighs in relief and says, "Thank you. Thank you all. We'll give 'em hell, that's for damn sure."
He turns his head to the left and right and asks, "Any volunteers for who's gonna be leading the teams?"
A few hands are raised. Zeina steps up and beckons them to the side so she and Abdullah can begin to coordinate with them and figure out the next steps.
Tommy slowly claps his deformed hands together, "Aye, no bad, wee man. No bad. A bit on-the-nose, but it's an awfully effective short speech, I'll say that much. Rousing, hahaha!"
John looks at him and shrugs, "Yeah, well...thanks. That means a lot. But it's not all fun and games. All of the people you see here have lost people to Israel's rampaging lunacy and maniacal bloodlust. You--you wouldn't even be able to stomach or believe half the stories I hear sometimes."
He shudders and turns his head aside, "It's--it's nothing any horror flick can even come close to depicting, no. Anyway, I--I wasn't sure if it was gonna work or not, heh. But, yeah, thanks."
Some time later...
It's all been done. There's about a dozen Assamites split up in teams of 4. John, Samir, Abdullah, Zeina, Svetlana, and a few others are in 1 team. The other 3 teams are all scattered throughout the city and have been assigned the locations where they'll be waiting in ambush for the Inquisitors.
Tommy and Garth depart back to the safety of the underground.
John and his team are at a fairly empty (but not quite) parking lot near the outskirts of the city. He approaches a payphone booth- it's green in color and scuffed up around the edges.
He looks around and sees several parked cars. Some of the fancy ones are caked in dust while the paint on a few others is worn. He sighs and looks at the list of keywords the Nosferatu have given him.
John exhales sharply and takes the receiver and places it against his ear. He inserts a few coins and dials some random number. He waits a few seconds.
A man picks up, "Hello, who is this? What are you calling for?"
John randomly spouts out some of the keywords from the given list, "Blood. Beast. Kindred. Kindred. Vitae. I need a bag, man. Blood. Red stuff. Juicy red stuff. I'm already here, so just drop by and give it to me, OK?"
The man on the other end thunders, "What the hell is this?! Who are you?! What are you even talking about?! You have the wrong number! Stupid fucking prank callers!"
The line cuts off, and the dial tone begins beeping. John hangs the receiver and looks around. He sees no suspicious characters in the immediate area.
He smirks and nods to his fellow Assamites.
Showtime.
The Unit 8211 techs immediately pick up on this hella suspicious call. Someone in the Command Center calls out, "Sir, sir! We have picked something up! Just now!"
A tech adds, "Yes, sir! Many of the flagged keywords were utilized!"
The tech presses a button and says, "It's coming from the outskirts of the city. Here..."
Another tech in another row pipes up, "Sir! Another one! This one north of Sufi Street!"
Yet another call is noted and a tech says, "We're receiving another, sir! This one near the ruins of the Marjan Tower! What the hell is going on?!"
Lieutenant Veifer strokes his chin and narrows his eyes, "Stupid fucking animals. It was only a matter of time before they slipped up and revealed themselves to us. Send the patrol squads in."
He turns and orders, "All squads, standby for orders! The targets are beginning to appear...all over the city! All squads, prepare to move out!"
He taps his earpiece and informs the field operatives, "This is Lieutenant Maximillian Veifer to all field teams. Blank body activity is being reported in many areas. Proceed with caution and report your findings. Remember your training. Lt. Veifer out."
He turns and looks at his fellow agents. He says, "You know your tasks. Keep on it. Trace those signals."
He leaves the room, along with several other Inquisitors. The door closes shut behind them.
1 of the Unit 8211 techies speaks to the other, "This is strange, man. All at once, isn't that a bit odd?"
"Fuck that. They're not just vampires, they're Arabs- dumb as rocks. Besides, it's not like these animals know what a computer is."
"Haha, yeah, you're right. Fuckin' bloodsuckers. They're so gross, dude."
The tech shivers and shakes his head, "Yeah. Good thing we're here to kill 'em...all."
Lt. Veifer approaches Commander Obed's office. He pushes the doors open and salutes, "Sir! We've got something! We are preparing to deploy the patrol squads and investigate potential blank body activity. It is coming from all over the city."
Commander Obed rises from his chair and adjusts his collar, "Very good. Very good, indeed. These vermin have FINALLY given themselves away. Baruch HaShem! Now, we will show them the might of Am Yisrael's finest."
Lt. Veifer nods, "Yes, sir. We'll get our revenge for what these animals did to our people last night."
Commander Gallant picks up his pistol from his desk and puts it into his holster, "I will be accompanying a squad in the field, Lieutenant."
Lt. Veifer raises an eyebrow, "Sir? Are you sure about that?"
Commander Gallant holds up his hand and replies, "It is only fair and right for a Commander to be in the midst of battle against the enemy. Now, let's go and exterminate these unholy creatures."
"Yes, sir. This way, Commander."
Oh no. The big man is going into the field. This can't end well...
Commander Obed Gallant puts on some body armor. He checks the clip in his rifle and then slings it over his shoulder. He looks at himself in the mirror- he is decked out in all sorts of armor and is fully geared for war.
He looks into the reflection and says, "For Am Yisrael. For its people and its land. Amen."
With that, he decides to ride along with the team being dispatched to reinforce the approaching patrol units to where John and his team are at.
Yikes.
Lt. Veifer has a slightly uncomfortable expression on his face while he stays behind. His commanding officer is going to the frontlines. This is a new development.
But there's nothing he can do to change the Commander's mind, so he simply nods and watches him stride off into a dark SUV with a few heavily armed goons.
Lt. Veifer shakes his head and scoffs, "Hff. What is he thinking? Anyway, back to work. The sooner we're done with the blank bodies in this savage region, the better."
Back to the ambush point, a few minutes have passed.
John Suarez is pacing about, his mind and eyes keenly focused on his surroundings. His keen ears can make out a few sounds of a nearby highway.
A breeze blows through his hair, and he inhales the stinging scent. Zeina is already gripping her long dagger and is just about ready to pounce.
Abdullah paces around and bites his thumb nail. He has that look of fear on his face. As much as he wanted to use his Blood Sorcery to give everyone's weapons an edge, he decided to save it up for a sticky situation.
It's an understandable concern, all things considered. It was easy when it was just a few blades to enchant (and enhance), but there's dozens of sharp, gnarly, and pointy stabby-slashy things that'll be able to do the job just fine tonight.
Samir stands by a covered car with a poignard in 1 hand and a locket in the other. He looks at it affectionately and cracks a small, almost wistful smile.
He looks around and mutters, "We will prevail. I know we will. It will not be long before we can all finally rest. Our cause is just, our Blades are sharp, and our intentions are pure and honest."
Svetlana is a bit away, looking down the street for anything or anyone that looks like it could be an Inquisitor. She's got her 2 daggers ready. She swallows the lump in her throat and takes a few deep breaths.
A few moments pass by.
Nothing.
There's no sign of any approaching Inquisitors yet.
Svetlana walks back to the group and says, "Nothing yet. Maybe they are not coming?"
Abdullah looks at his shoes and answers, "They will be here. Do not worry."
Zeina sniffs, "God is with us. The Zionists are bloodthirsty- they will not pass on an opportunity to inflict violence on those they deem inferior."
Samir adds, "Yes. We must be strong. If the plan has not worked, then I am sure John habibi will figure out what to do next. We have come so far, and it would be a shame to stop now."
Svetlana gives a half smile and nods her head.
John's eyes dart around the parking lot and surrounding area; he's a lot more twitchy than usual. He runs his finger along his katana blade, feeling the cold steel beneath his colder finger.
A few more minutes pass. The night's still as calm and as silent as ever.
Svetlana is a little restless and can't help but feel that something is off. The others around here are getting a bit anxious too. Some of them begin to wonder if the SI's even gonna show up.
Oh, they'll show up, alright.
The multi-level parking lot is a bit of a maze. It's got several floors and a lot of cars, some in better condition than others. There are also a few staircases and elevators that lead to the upper levels.
It's quite grimy and doesn't look like it's been cleaned in a while. John and his team take up more fortified and defensive positions. The concrete walls look worn and damaged.
As soon as everyone gets into position, Svetlana has that sinking feeling of being watched. Her keen senses alert her of the faintest of noises coming from behind her- she can make out the sounds of...
Giggling.
Little Chloe's Wraith flickers in and out of sight- of course. A Wraith is bound to their Fetter, so no surprise there.
She's giggling and holding onto a very fluffy, very cuddly, very huggable, but spectral teddy bear. She waves at Svetlana.
Svetlana freezes and lets out a light gasp, her jaw slightly slack. John doesn't sense a damn thing. Neither do the other Assamites present.
Svetlana makes a shooing gesture with her hand and Samir spots this. His eyes narrow in confusion as he stares at her.
The 1st wave is yet to arrive. Commander Gallant and the squad he's riding with will take even longer. In the SUV, the other goons are awestruck that their beloved Commander would choose to go out into the field with them.
Commander Obed holds up his hand and shakes his head, "Oh, please. It is nothing. If anything, it is only fair for a Commander to...lead by example, yes? Furthermore, after our recent losses, I feel there is much more I can do to increase troop morale, yes?"
The other SI thugs nod in unison. The guy in the front seat, speaking with an American accent, turns over and asks, "Any words of advice, sir?"
Commander Gallant coldly states, "Yes- we are fighting animals. Act accordingly."
Grim sounds of laughter erupt in the vehicle. Commander Obed merely has a stone-faced look.
A thug from the back seat says, "They are blank bodies AND terrorists, gah!" He grunts and adds, "At least we have an opportunity here, sir!"
Commander Gallant checks a shotgun. He loads up some orange-colored whitey-p rounds into the underside and cocks it, "That we do. And we must make sure that we give these animals the punishment they so richly deserve. If not us, then who, hmm?"
Lt. Hilda Klein makes sure that the other squads are dispatched to the other hotspots. Even she wonders why her Commander wanted to personally lead a strike force. It's a risky move, and a fairly dumb one to boot.
But who can tell the glorious leader (tm) what he should do? That man has always been a bit too arrogant for his own good. Not that anyone will say a word, though.
Commander Obed Gallant has got high connections in the Israeli Military-Intelligence apparatus. Connections that could make anyone's life a living hell if they were to make the wrong kinda move.
Back to the Assamites...
Samir is leaning against a concrete wall. He keeps looking over his shoulder to make sure that Svetlana is doing OK. She keeps making shooing gestures at seemingly nothing, so that's...a bit strange.
He spends a few moments thinking about his past in Iraq. Like any Banu Haqim, he has the Clan Bane of Blood Addiction- Diablerie. There was this Lasombra Blackwater mercenary (yep) that eventually wound up becoming falling to Samir's fangs.
Samir Diablerized that merc and by doing so, enhanced his own Obfuscate powers. Now, he's essentially able to merge with the shadows when using Obfuscate. It comes in handy in areas that aren't very well-lit.
Still, Amaranth is not all fun and games- there are certain downsides to it. The most obvious is the loss of one's Humanity when consuming another Kindred's Vitae and drawing their "essence" into one's own.
Samir does, from time to time, grapple with such questions. Either way, he puts all that to the back of his mind when he sees a light-beige van approaching, its headlights piercing through the darkness of the night. His ears perk up when he hears its engine humming.
John's head snaps over in the direction of the van, his eyes wide with anticipation, "Here they come!" He raises his head and loudly whispers to his fellow Assamites, "It's them- go! Get into position!" He nods to his team, and they begin to hunker down.
A few Inquisitors step out of the van. They're dressed plainly and have small firearms. Some buzzing noise overhead draws the attention of the Assamites. A few drones float above. They're small ones, but their camera-lens "eyes" are scanning the lot, recording everything.
1 of the goons approaches an SUV on the opposite side of the parking lot. It's covered in a thick layer of dust, but it still runs fine. She runs her finger across the dusty hood and shrugs.
Samir activates his Obfuscate Discipline, whispers something to himself in Arabic, and almost melds with the nearby shadows. The other Assamites here awe at this strange and unusual power, but Samir pays no heed. It's nothing special, he says.
Just a variation of Obfuscate, that's all.
John looks around for Svetlana- she's crouched near a staircase and is keeping a keen eye on the SI. He nods approvingly and whispers, "Get into position. Let's try and take a few out quietly- save our energy for the main battle, OK?"
Svetlana shakily nods, "Da."
John comes over to her and places his hand on her shoulder, "Hey, you OK?"
"Da. I am fine. You?"
"Heh, don't worry about me. Let's keep that promise we made, alright?"
"Da. To watch each other's backs. Always."
The Inquisitor with the dusty finger is dragged away into the darkness. Samir's poignard glides across her neck and she is silently taken down. Her eyes glaze over, and her body goes limp. John gives Samir a thumbs-up. He does not see a trace of blood. He did the deed quickly, efficiently, and quietly.
Samir nods and smiles back at him- a faint, yet sincere one.
The SI thugs turn their heads to see that the 1st goon has disappeared into the dark. They point at that general direction, shout in Hebrew, but don't approach.
Another operative turns on his flashlight and shines it around the immediate area, but to no avail. His eyes widen, and his heartbeat begins to quicken. He motions for his colleagues to keep it together and remain on their guard.
Samir vanishes into the darkness again. The thugs can only hear the whispers of the wind- whispers that are a perfect mask for Svetlana to activate her Obfuscate Discipline and conceal her form. Her vision sharpens and she fades away from sight.
The goons turn to the drones and radio back to HQ that something is off- but nothing's happening.
"HQ, come in! HQ?"
John breathes in and out. Not that he needs to but, eh. He waits for the perfect moment. He shuts his eyes, gathers his composure, calms his dead nerves, and opens his eyes again.
The world around him comes to a near standstill. In a flash of an instant, he blinks forward, swirls his katana blade about in an almost majestically fast dance of death and bloodshed, and lets lose his blade's fury at the closest 2 thugs.
Blood splatters on the dusty and grimy concrete walls. John looks back and nods to the rest of his team. Zeina grins wickedly as her fangs flash in the darkness. Her dagger pierces a goon's throat as he gurgles, chokes, and gawks.
Abdullah remains hidden. He digs his claw into his palm and lets some of his Vitae drip to the ground. He draws some kind of sigil from it, chants in Arabic, and blows gently on it. It begins to glow with an orange-ish, faint hue.
Svetlana flanks to the opposite side and looks to see how John's doing. He's fast; blink-and-you'll-miss-it fast.
Another Inquisitor sees his fellow soldiers collapse and begin convulsing on the ground. He begins to wildly fire his SMG into the shadows, spraying a hail of bullets in no particular direction. He shouts at the drones. They buzz about the area, streaming the events unfolding before them.
Chaos erupts in the lot as the other Assamites charge into battle. A few of the SI thugs begin to fire their weapons- 1 of them aims and squeezes the trigger and fires at Svetlana, hitting her in the shoulder.
Svetlana curses and groans. She disappears from sight and reappears behind that bastard. She drives her dagger into his shoulder and twists in with as much ferocity as she can muster.
He drops the gun and tries to wrestle the weapon out of his flesh. His blood stains her hands and the dagger, and he shivers as he tries to squirm away. Svetlana pulls her other dagger out with a grunt and stabs him in the eye. He collapses, groaning, and dies with a whimper.
A few seconds pass and a drone turns towards the commotion. Its lens flashes, and Svetlana disappears.
Abdullah stands by a concrete column, bloodied hands trembling like mad. Of all the Blade of Haqim members in this Domain, he's the only one who doesn't make use of a melee weapon.
His Blood IS his weapon.
The other Assamites get shot at, but stab and slash their way through their opponents with little difficulty. Abdullah holds out his hand, his claw glistening with his Vitae.
The drone stops mid-air and its camera flashes, zooms in, and focuses in on Abdullah.
Abdullah screams into the air and the drones begin to shut down and crash to the ground. He's panting, breathing in and out. His body trembles. He's clearly pushing himself over here.
As a barrage of bullets whiz past him, he slinks back into cover and keeps a watchful eye on his allies.
Svetlana grabs her injured shoulder. The wound slowly begins to close, and she grimaces as the bullets ping around her. She rushes back into the shadows and fades out of view. She curses again as her hand smothers her sore shoulder.
A goon reaches for her and shouts, "Fuck you!" He rushes her with a wooden stake and almost jams it into her chest, but he gets tackled by Samir, who rams a dagger into his forehead.
His body goes limp, and he falls onto the concrete. Samir holds out his hand, "Are you alright, Svetlana?"
Svetlana smiles at him and nods, "Da...spasibo." She looks around and leaps into the fray where 2 stake-wielding operators are ganging up on Zeina. Svetlana's eyes narrow in fury and she launches herself at them.
She shoves them off Zeina and then begins to wildly slash at their necks.
The other Assamites don't show the faintest signs of exhaustion yet. But then, who can tell?
A few more Inquisitors drop dead from severed heads and cut throats. Their blood sprays the air as they all meet a messy end. The parking lot begins to fill up with the dead and the dying.
John is cutting open an SI operator's abdomen and slashing across his torso with a brutal uppercut. Another Assamite blinks back and forth, slicing (and dicing) up the Inquisitors, while another stabs her dagger into the heart of a dying foe, making sure that they stay dead.
Now, there's only a few Inquisitors left. Maybe they'll make a run for it? But then, something happens...and not the good kind.
John's eyes go wide in horror. His hands go slack, and his jaw drops as he looks around the lot, his eyes frantically darting from 1 direction to the next.
Commander Gallant and the other thugs arrive. He's decked out in full-body armor and carries a shotgun in 1 hand. He takes a moment to look around. He can smell the fighting, and he can feel the chaos and destruction in the area.
Screams, erratic gunfire, howling, growling, bones snapping, gross squelching sounds, and so on.
Inquisitors in heavy riot gear emerge out of the SUV and begin firing their incendiary shotguns and flamethrowers, spreading a hazy orange glow of hellish fire about the place. The parking lot is slowly (but surely) beginning to resemble a hellish inferno of doom.
Samir hisses and begins to feel his skin burning up. He desperately tries to find cover as the fire spreads to some cars. He hides behind a column and screams in pain. His Rtschreck is triggered, and he winces as he can feel the intensity of those flames.
Chloe's Wraith reappears again, giggling and floating around Svetlana as the fire spreads to her position. Her hand extends and taps Svetlana's shoulder. She almost yelps out in shock. She can't hear the fire or see the smoke; she's got tunnel-vision for the Wraith, and nothing more.
Abdullah's hand begins to twitch.
An Inquisitor raises his gun and points it at Svetlana's head while another one approaches her with a long wooden stake. Svetlana, her hands stained in blood, stares at the shimmering child in front of her, completely and totally distracted.
John slashes another goon and notices his Childe from the corner of his eye. He gasps and his eyes widen. He musters up everything within his undead being and flashes to her in a hurry. His Celerity carries him like a storm as he slashes across an Inquisitor's throat.
Svetlana gasps in horror and snaps back into reality as soon as the Inquisitor's corpse lands on her feet. She looks to her side and sees John, blood-spattered and wide-eyed with worry. She exhales deeply and manages to nod at him.
John quickly eliminates the other thug. Amidst all the gunfire, he puts his hands on Svetlana's shoulders and shakes her, "FOCUS, Svetlana! What the hell happened back there?!"
Svetlana's eyes go wide with horror as she realizes what she was about to do- almost get herself destroyed (or captured), "John, I'm sorry! I--"
"Forget it! Just stay focused, dammit!"
"But John--"
John yells over the roaring fires and the intense fighting, "LATER, damn it! Focus! Go! Now!" He rushes back to the fray, katana at the ready.
Svetlana takes a quick moment to gather her composure. Zeina is engaged in fisticuffs with someone who is VERY keen on ramming a stake in her chest.
Abdullah is still hiding behind a column and keeps a watchful eye on his teammates. The fire is beginning to spread to his area, so he runs for better cover as bullets fly past him. A bullet grazes his ear. He keels over and winces in pain.
Commander Gallant, that smug sonofabitch, orders his troops to secure the lot. He makes the usual tactical hand gestures and has his chin held high.
An Assamite tries to bum-rush him, but he shotguns the vampire down with 2 blasts. They crumble to ash in front of him. He shakes his head, "Fools..." He scoffs at the pile of ashes near his feet.
Zeina and her foe are engaged in an intense fist fight. Her fangs flash as her foe keeps her at bay with a stake. She grunts in frustration and darts around the goon, but he manages to dodge her every blow.
He punches her in the face, sending her sprawling onto the concrete floor. He looms over her with a stake, hissing, "Got you now, bitch!" He's about to thrust it into her chest when another Assamite drives his sword through that goon's mouth.
His blood rains down on her. She pushes the body away and thanks her fellow Assassin. He points and gestures at the others, who are in trouble- they need to move NOW!
Abdullah tries to push forward to get to a more advantageous position. He gets cut off by 2 other goons, 1 armed with an incendiary shotgun and another wielding a long, wooden stake.
"Don't even think about it."
Abdullah sheepishly raises his bloodied hands and swallows deeply. The stake-wielder slowly approaches the Assamite Blood Sorcerer and is about to plunge the stake through his heart when he notices some red mist rising from out of nowhere.
"What the...?"
The 2 Inquisitors begin to wheeze and choke. They claw at their necks as if there's some invisible force around it. They start gasping for air and fall to their knees, desperately struggling for their lives.
Abdullah looks down on the 2 thugs with an air of pity. He snaps his fingers, and the Inquisitors' bodies crumple to the ground, eyes rolled over into the back of their skulls and mouths frothing.
He looks down at the corpses and plainly says, "The Blade Judges you."
Samir's Rtschreck has reduced, but he's still afraid of the searing flames and the bright lights of the fire. He tries to push forward to help his fellow Assamites. He rushes at one of the thugs in a wild bum-rush when his foot gets shot- a few AP rounds go into his ankle and shin, sending him sprawling on the concrete.
He screams in agony. His eyes dart all over the place as he frantically crawls away from the Inquisitors, his hand grasping his wounded leg. He crawls to the shadows and readies his weapon as the operators close in on him.
Another Assamite goes to assist Samir but is quickly taken out with a flamethrower. Svetlana hears him screaming and gasps. Her hand instinctively goes for her dagger and she's about to rush into battle, but she hesitates.
From where she's standing, she sees Commander Obed Gallant. She freezes in place as feelings of primal terror begin to wash over her. Those soulless gray eyes of his, those facial features.
She has seen this man before. She has encountered him before.
Amidst all the carnage, she stands there. Slack-jawed and wide-eyed, memories from her past begin to rear their ugly heads as she struggles to retain her composure. The flames around her burn brighter and the screams grow louder as the past and present seem to meld together into a hellish mess.
A loud ringing begins to sound in Svetlana's ears. It gets louder and louder, as does everything around her. Her head spins, and her eyes grow hazy.
She remembers strong and harsh hands forcing her face into the ground. Pants unzipping, loud talking in English and Hebrew, and a rough and brute force that no person can forget...
She was just 18 when it happened.
It all comes flooding back. A damp and musty hotel room in India. 4 Israeli men and 1 Israeli woman were present on that fateful and horrible evening.
Svetlana frantically shakes her head and mutters something incomprehensible. She tries to move, but she remains frozen in place. Out of desperation, she channels as much of her Vitae as she can into her Obfuscate Discipline.
She tries and tries and tries, but she just flickers in and out of view.
Commander Gallant scares off a few approaching vampires with his incendiary shotgun rounds while Svetlana, shivering in her boots, struggles to disappear out of sight.
Commander Obed orders a few goons to focus their fire on this or that direction. He notices the flickering form of Svetlana and points his finger at it, "That way! Get it! GO!"
Svetlana, panicking, looks at that vile man in fear as a goon gets close to her position. Her lips quiver and tears of blood begin to flow down her face. She sees John out of the corner of her eye fighting tooth-and-nail, a look of desperation on his face.
The thug stops in her tracks and is almost amazed by Svetlana crying tears of blood, "What in god's name?"
John angrily screams out, trying to dodge stakes and shotty rounds alike, "SVETLANA! FOCUS! SVETLANA!"
She hears her Sire calling her name, but it's just a faint echo. Those horrid memories of that particular evening all come flooding back as the fire burns and rages around her. Her throat goes dry. She can't move or fight- she just freezes up and trembles, trying in vain to hide.
A flash of something metallic gleams in the fire and slashes the back of the approaching Inquisitor's head. The stake clatters onto the concrete, and they fall face-first onto the concrete floor with a dull thud, blood seeping out from their neck.
Another goon spots the flickering Svetlana. He aims his gun and squeezes the trigger, but he is quickly taken out by a slash of a blade, followed by a loud scream from 1 of the other Assamites.
This is a disaster. The SI clearly has the upper hand here. A few more Assamites are turned to ash either by the incendiary rounds or flamethrowers.
Zeina tries to dash at Commander Gallant, but his fiery shotty rounds send her fleeing in the other direction, wildly screeching and hissing as the hot flames singe her hair and flesh.
Svetlana's gaze remains transfixed on the Commander. Her face is blank, and sanguine tears continue to flow down her face as she flickers in and out of sight.
She remains motionless and mute. All the memories she had buried deep in the darkest depths of her mind begin to resurface in a violent storm as her eyes remain fixed on that horrible, terrible man.
The way he and the other men laughed at her. The way that other woman...recorded the whole fucking thing and laughed along with the others.
John yells at his Childe, "SVETLANA! WHAT'S THE MATTER WITH YOU?!"
Abdullah uses his Blood to create more corrosive red mist that envelops the area around Svetlana. Inquisitors and drones alike fall to the ground as the mist does its work. But he knows that this won't last long.
He pants as his Vitae drips from his hands. He can't keep this up. But, for the time being, his teammates need this distraction to regroup and get the fuck out of here!
Samir stabs and slashes a heavy shotgunner and limps away as a gaping bullet wound on his abdomen begins to mend itself. Zeina howls as she gets hit by more incendiary shotty rounds and goes scrambling into the shadows.
She hides and gathers her composure as the searing pain begins to spread across her body. She stifles a groan and blinks a few times.
Commander Obed Gallant hacks and coughs in the smokey lot. He can't see a goddamn thing. He orders his soldiers to move up as his vision gets blurrier, and his eyes catch something out of the corner.
Some of the troops are beginning to choke on and die from the red mist. The others fall back as they see it gathering up near their feet.
John and the other surviving Assamites are clearly at their limit. He screams, "OUT! OUT!"
Commander Gallant smugly smirks and lifts his chin upon hearing his foe admit defeat. He calls out, "There is no place that you can hide, blank body! Show yourself and I promise to make it quick."
John shakes his head and winces in pain as he sees a light bullet wound in his chest begin to close up, "Dammit. We'll be back to finish you off! Asshole. Let's go!"
He sees an opening and makes a dash for it, as does the rest of his team. John frantically looks around. Svetlana still hasn't moved from her spot. At least Abdullah's red mist keeps her safe from those fascist assholes...for now.
John shouts at his Childe and calls her name again, "SVETLANA! For fuck's sake!" He grabs her hand and yanks her away. He sees the Commander raise his gun at him and blinks away just in time.
Abdullah follows closely and wonders what's up with Svetlana, "Is she fine, habibi?! What's the matter with her?!" He's panting. He is quite low on Vitae right now.
John shakes his head, "I have no clue! I don't know!" He slows down and looks at her with a look of pity.
Svetlana, with a blank and distant stare, mutely and listlessly follows John, as if her Sire were leading her through an unknown world. Her body shivers, her legs are numb, her mouth is agape and dry.
She remembers being a terrified, confused, and lonely girl all those years ago, traveling by herself. The hotel room...
She was 18 then. Backpacking in India was all she could afford after her babushka had passed away. Given the socio-economic situation in post-USSR Ukraine, it was all that was left for her to do.
The tears flow as Svetlana gets yanked through blurry surroundings, with nothing but those horrid memories flooding her brain and paralyzing her very being.
She doesn't see the other Assamites. She doesn't see the tired faces and singed clothes. She doesn't see John trying his best to pull her away from all the madness and danger.
Going to India was originally suggested by a friend of hers. She really wanted to go to somewhere nicer, like Italy, but money was quite tight at the time, so she took a gamble and went to India.
Svetlana sees nothing but those 4 young guys and that horrible, terrible woman in her memories. Her green eyes remain locked in a frozen, blank stare. Her arms are numb, and her body goes slack as she walks. She barely even remembers anything else.
She had just turned 18.
John continues to call Svetlana's name and drags her along with the others as they run out of the lot, the fiery smoke (and rapidly dissipating red mist) obscuring the area as they all get to safety.
Svetlana sees that hotel room in India, sees those 5 Israelis...
"NYET! NYET! NOOOOO! AAAAAAAAAH! AAAAAAAARGH! HELP! HELP!" The Assamite starts to shake and convulse as more and more of these horrid, suppressed memories begin to flood her mind.
Her Sire's eyes widen in shock as she continues to scream at the top of her lungs. Svetlana starts clawing at her own arms, "HELP ME! HELP ME! HEEEEEELP MEEEE! NO! NO TOUCH! DON'T TOUCH! NOOO!"
Zeina's face goes from tired and weary to concerned as she listens to this, "What is happening to her?! She's...screaming! Someone do something!"
John cups his Childe's cheeks in his grimy hands and tries to look into her eyes while the other Assamites continue to run out of the area and hide, "Svetlana! Look at me!"
Svetlana gasps in horror and her lips quaver. She winces and tries to look away from her Sire, "No touch...don't touch...! NO! LEAVE ME! P--PLEASE!"
John shakes his head and repeats his question, "Svetlana! Svetlana, what's wrong with you?!" His face contorts with worry as he tries his best to look into her eyes, but Svetlana continues to look away in terror.
"NO! DON'T TOUCH!"
An Assamite from the front angrily hisses and remarks, "Keep it down! They will find us! Stop screaming!"
Another battered Assamite groans, "John, we have to keep moving. W--What's the matter with her? What happened?"
Svetlana desperately looks to the side, and John finally manages to meet his Childe's gaze. He is stunned to see the tears of blood constantly running down her cheeks.
John takes on a more sympathetic tone, "My god. What happened out there? Svetlana, look at me. We have to get the hell outta here, OK? Can you hear me? Just stay close, alright? We're not outta dodge just yet."
Svetlana simply mumbles, "No...please. No. I--I...hurting...very much. P--P--Painful." Her legs are shaking, and her body continues to go slack.
"Svetlana, listen to me..."
Svetlana's gaze meets her Sire's, "I--I can't! John...I can't! HURTING! HELP ME! SAVE ME!"
John's eyebrows furrow in worry, "You're...safe with me. OK? No one's gonna hurt you now, alright? No one. I'm here. Remember, we--we got each other's backs, right?"
Svetlana's lips move, but no sound comes out. The other Assamites try their best to make sense of the situation, but no one seems to have a clue about what just happened to John's Childe.
The surviving Assamites make their way through a dark tunnel that stinks like hell. It's littered with garbage, glass bottles, and discarded food.
The Assamites waste no time in trying to get as far away as possible from those fascist pricks as John keeps an arm around Svetlana and looks into her eyes with a look of deep concern on his face.
Abdullah keeps looking back, thinking that either a trooper or a drone is following the group. The red mist has subsided. He can barely keep his balance due to fatigue, "John, I have nothing left in me, habibi. I can't keep us safe. If--if anything were to happen--"
Zeina grunts, "NO! Leave it. We--we could not have won this fight tonight." She groans as she stumbles to her knees and winces in pain.
Samir shakes his head and keeps his grip tightened on his poignard as they keep walking, "It--it's too risky. Keep going forward, do not look back. John, what about Svetlana? How is she? What happened to her?"
John shrugs, "I have no idea...she--she just started screaming bloody murder...I didn't know she could be so loud." He keeps his hands on Svetlana's arms, keeping her steady and on the right track.
Samir opines, "Something distracts her, habibi. Something weighs down on her. I can sense it. I can feel it. Please, for all our sakes, find out what it is. You are her Sire, so the responsibility is yours."
Svetlana continues to sob blood in the middle of this shitty, stinky, and dark tunnel. Her entire body quavers, and she looks to the side, eyes wide in terror.
John gently shakes her, "Hey, hey, easy. Shh, shh. It's over now, OK? We're far away from all of that, alright? C'mon, talk to me. What happened back there?"
Svetlana tries to answer, but the words get caught in her throat, "I...I...I..." She blinks rapidly and forces a few deep breaths in and out. She doesn't want to look weak in front of her Sire and the others. She just keeps her head down and wipes the bloody tears away with the back of her hand.
Zeina sighs, "Come, everyone. Let's find a way out of here. Keep going." The rest of the surviving Assamites keep pushing forward and follow her lead.
Damn, what a night. The other Banu Haqim fare well enough, though. The SI fall for the ambush and are swiftly killed, but some of them manage to destroy a few vampires in return.
But the whys and the hows can all come later. For now, everyone just wants to go to ground, lick (mend) their wounds, and retreat into the safety and familiar comfort of their Havens or safe spots in this sprawling gilded metropolis.
John and Svetlana have a lot to talk about...there are things in each of their pasts that they'd both rather keep to themselves for a good long while.
But now, they can no longer afford to do so. The truth has to come out, no matter how painful and traumatizing it may be...
Svetlana's Haven, safe and familiar surroundings. The Banu Haqim Neonate looks at her colorful matryoshka dolls, and her expression softens a little. She stares into space with a distant look in her eyes as John sits by her side.
He holds his Childe's cold hand in his own and sighs deeply. He's not sure where to start...how to address this...whatever it is. His face remains tense and drawn. His brow furrows with worry.
His heavy eyes remain locked on Svetlana's face.
He gently shakes Svetlana's arms, "It's fine, alright? We're safe now, OK?"
Svetlana shakily mutters, "You...are sure?"
John sighs and weakly shakes his head, "I--I, well, I'm not, no, but I'm...we're gonna try, OK? It's alright. We got our asses kicked out there tonight. Wha--What happened back there? Are you OK? Talk to me, please. Tell me what's wrong. C'mon, Svetlana. This is me you're talking to- your Sire."
Svetlana gulps deeply and stares at her Sire, "That man..."
"Which one?"
"In--in the armor and holding fire gun. Leader, I think. T--Terrible eyes." Her body begins to shake again. More tears of blood begin to flow down her face.
John faintly nods, "Oh, yeah, I saw that asshole. He definitely looked like A leader, but THE leader? I seriously doubt it, Svetlana. Anyway, that doesn't matter. You...know him?"
Without skipping a beat, Svetlana plainly states, "Da. A face like that you do not forget so easily."
She pauses for a moment. Her face grows more somber. John remains silent and listens. His lips quaver slightly, but he says nothing. He knows something horrible happened to his Childe...he just can't figure out what it was or how it happened.
Svetlana continues, "In hotel room in India, I was only 18--"
"Oh my god. Did--did he--"
Svetlana nods, a grim and distant look on her face. She takes a deep breath and lets it out in a shaky sigh, "Da. He raped me, he and 3 other men." She closes her eyes. More tears of blood flow down her cheeks and onto her lap. Her voice breaks.
John's eyes widen and he covers his mouth with his hand. His throat tightens and he has to take a moment before he can even speak. He gently puts an arm around Svetlana and tries his best to comfort her, "My god. That's...that's fucking awful! I'm--I'm so sorry, Svetlana. I had no idea."
Svetlana weakly shakes her head from side to side, "I never thought, in million years, I would see him again. After--after it happened, I tried my best to...forget. To...I do not know. Move on?" She blinks a few times and looks to the side.
John's face contorts with worry and he nods, "I can...understand that, yeah. I don't blame you for wanting to move on and forget. I'm just...so sorry. I don't mean to reopen old wounds, but HOW do you know it's him?"
Svetlana looks at her Sire and answers, "Like I said: a face like that is not forgotten so easily. Da. For as long as I live, I will never forget...their faces."
She takes a moment and goes on, "That man is...is rapist. Back then, I was very young. Alone in strange country. I cry and cry, I beg, I scream, I fought, I struggle, but--"
John rubs Svetlana's back, "No one came to help."
"Da."
It all comes flooding back to her mind. An 18-year-old Svetlana Bobrov is walking down a poorly lit and congested hallway. Those 5 Israeli tourists were loud, obnoxious, entitled, and belligerent. But she didn't know that then.
She was just a nave, innocent girl from Ukraine who wanted to travel the world.
Those 5 Israelis would treat the people around them with as much respect as they would a piece of wet cardboard and make a general nuisance of themselves.
The staff at that particular rundown hotel simply kept their heads low and did whatever they were asked, no matter how degrading or demeaning. Svetlana didn't understand much English at the time, so she could only try her best to avoid those boorish and rude creatures.
But she would find herself trapped in the elevator with 1 of them. This young man groped her and touched her against her will. He even tried to pull her into his room with him, but she screamed and managed to run away.
She was all alone in an unfamiliar land. She had no idea where to go or what to do. The cops came after some noise complaints, but they left soon after without bothering- typical apathetic authorities.
Svetlana even remembers seeing a cop saying "Namaste" to those tourists and saying how big of a supporter or Israel he was. Yuck.
"I tried to...avoid them, John. I mind my own business and stay quiet, but 1 evening, I get...cornered by 2 of them," Svetlana continues her story.
John shakes his head and looks away. His face grows more tense, "That's fucking terrible! I--I'm sorry. I know that's not much, but...what else can I say? I just--"
"Da. It is least you can do, John."
So, she got cornered in the hallway. She had just washed her hair, and the smell of shampoo and conditioner wafted in the air. As she was walking down the hallway, those 2 men made obscene gestures at her, jeered at her, and 1 of them even reached out and grabbed her breasts.
Svetlana tries her best to maintain a brave demeanor, but her eyes brim with bloody tears as she recalls this awful moment.
Having enough of their bullshit, she slapped that man who inappropriately touched her breasts. That man, much bigger and stronger than her, smacked her right back, leaving a painful sting on her cheek.
"And then, I scream at him, I--I don't know, in Ukrainian, Russian, English all mixed. I was young and very angry! But that is when others come out. I am so scared, I--I cry. They all laugh at me." Svetlana shudders at the memory of that terrible moment.
That's when she first sees the young Obed Gallant. He had his hands on his hips and his chin lifted. His eyes looked cold and hard, even back then. Those men, all much bigger and stronger than her, surrounded her. She couldn't get away.
"Th--They take me into room," she continues. "I cry for help, no one comes. I struggle, I kick, I scream, but nothing works." Her voice cracks and she has to pause before going on.
"Oh, god..." John is genuinely heartbroken to see his Childe relive this horrible experience. His voice lowers, "If you don't wanna go on, you don't have to..."
Svetlana shakes her head, "Nyet. Is better I--I tell you. I do not know who else to tell." She closes her eyes and sobs. John puts an arm around her shoulders and tries to comfort her.
"I was so SCARED, John! There was woman in the hotel room. I look at her and ask for help, but she--she only smile and watch me, encourage those men. She was very beautiful, like model, but also...terrible, heartless."
Svetlana takes a deep breath and continues, "I look at her, I beg her to stop them, but they--they begin to--to pull out my clothes and--" She pauses for a moment and looks at her Sire.
Obed Gallant pulled her clothes off while shoving her face down against the floor. He was already on top of her, his hand squeezing her throat. She could barely breathe. She tried to get him off of her, but she was just too weak and afraid.
Svetlana winces and lets out a painful groan as she remembers the excruciating pain that she felt on that grim night. The woman who was with them that night smiled at the scene and laughed cruelly.
She even pulled out a camcorder and recorded the whole fucking ordeal. With pleading eyes, Svetlana looked at that woman for some sympathy, for some pity. She was just met with a sadistic smile and an encouraging nod to the boys.
"They all rape me, John," Svetlana says with a shaky voice, "I--I frozen. I could...could not move. My whole body shaking, sweating, cold. I was so afraid. So...afraid. I try to fight back, but I--I so weak and small. Nothing work." She wipes the bloody tears away with the sleeve of her shirt.
John's lips tremble and he has to take a moment before he can say anything, "I'm so sorry, Svetlana."
Svetlana sniffles, "They took turns. First, it was...that man I saw tonight. I--I cannot remember his name. They were all cheering and talking in their language. I did not understand what they were saying. All I know is that they were hurting...me. They make fun of me while I cried. I was so scared!"
John shakes his head, "I'm sorry. God, I'm so sorry..." He puts a hand on her shoulder and keeps listening to her story. It's a terrible one. He'd rather not hear it, but it's something that she needs to get off her chest.
"F--For long long time, I forget what happened. I try to move on, but then I see this man tonight. Terrible face I--I see every time I close my eyes to sleep in day. Sometimes, even in my dreams, I feel his hands on--on my body. I do not know what to do, I become so frighten. I--"
John slowly pulls her in for a tight hug. He shushes her and pats her back, "It's alright now, Svetlana. It's alright now."
"Nyet. Is not OK!"
He rubs her back, "That asshole can't hurt you now, alright? He won't hurt you again. He won't. I promise you that."
After a minute of tense silence, Svetlana breaks the hug and takes a moment to gather her thoughts. After those men had had their way with her, they shoved her out of their hotel room. It felt like it would never end, but eventually, it did.
The woman who was with them that night continued to film everything, even as Svetlana crawled out of the room crying and half-naked.
The poor girl then curled up in a corner of the hallway and wept. The 4 men came out of their room, wagged their fingers at her, and warned her that if she went to the authorities, they'd kill her.
They made throat-slitting gestures and brandished their IDF-issued knives at her. That was the last time Svetlana ever saw those repulsive creatures.
Her whole body shook with fear and dread as she was slumped against the walls of that hallway. That was when a middle-aged cleaning lady in a ragged saree spotted her. She spoke very little English and offered a kind word or 2 and tried her best to console her.
Svetlana broke down in tears as the woman gently patted her shoulder. The poor girl tried to tell the cleaning lady what had happened, but the only thing she could do was sob uncontrollably.
The cleaning lady took Svetlana back to her abode, which was just a thatched roof made of straw, brick, and wood in a tight and garbage-strewn alleyway behind the hotel.
She tried to ask Svetlana some questions about what had happened, but the girl just continued to shake her head and cry. Her face was covered in snot and tears.
Her lips quivered, and her whole body was shaking. She couldn't bring herself to speak a single word. All she did was crumple into the cleaning lady and sob transparent tears of grief and pain.
After Svetlana regained her strength, the cleaning lady's young daughter, a 11-year-old girl, acted as a sort of translator between the 2. The child's English was far better than her mother's, and Svetlana found this somewhat helpful.
But Svetlana just couldn't bring herself to tell anyone what had happened to her.
The cleaning lady, who knew that something was up, shook her head sadly and frowned. She had no idea what to say. Her eyes welled up with sympathetic tears, but she knew there was nothing she could do for this poor girl.
Svetlana thanked these 2 kind folk for their hospitality and left the country soon after, vowing never to return. On the way, she contemplated filing an FIR (First Information Report) against those Israeli bastards, but she remembered how sharp their brandished knives were and quickly decided against it.
So, she kept silent about what happened that fateful night. She just moved on with her life and tried her best to forget that horrific incident.
It was hard...so very hard. It still is. She kept reliving that moment over and over again in her mind. While still a mortal, she would wake up in the middle of the day crying and shaking.
Back in Ukraine, Svetlana didn't have the heart to tell anyone what had happened. Lost and without much in the way of support, she decided to try her luck in the UAE, working informally as a babysitter.
The job situation in Ukraine wasn't too great, and she didn't have a college degree, so babysitting seemed like a good enough option.
Still, she wanted to lodge a complaint. Even after landing back in her home country, she contemplated her options. She even thought of booking another flight back to India to lodge a formal complaint with the authorities.
But every time she tried to call the Indian embassy or the consulate to see what her options were, she hung up in a fit of panic and shame. Same with the Ukrainian embassies and consulates in and around India.
Besides, there were mountains and mountains of unaddressed rape cases in India; Svetlana's would simply be a number in an ever-increasing pile of misery and tragedy. Even to this day, the authorities over there remain useless, callous, apathetic, and maliciously negligent as ever.
If she did file that FIR, some creepy asshole would probably ask her what she was wearing.
She couldn't bring herself to do it. Her throat tightened up, her eyes welled up with tears, and she felt like she was going to be sick. She thought she was going insane, that she was crazy.
She thought that those maniacs would track her down and slit her throat while she slept. She knew it was irrational, but she couldn't help but feel this way, so scared and afraid of everything.
It's horrible.
So, she kept silent about her ordeal for YEARS. The only person she had ever told was Prince Angela Whiteford, the Gangrel Dove Prince of Dubai. The now-destroyed Prince was a very understanding woman and could relate to what Svetlana was going through.
She listened to the then-Fledgling's story and provided some much-needed advice and guidance.
Prior to her destruction, Prince Angela was said to be looking into paying for Svetlana's therapy (which, considering the subject matter and the specialized sensitivity required, was pretty pricey), but things took a turn for the worse when the Imbued showed up and emptied the Kindred out of Dubai.
Svetlana, now completely empty on the inside, sits by her Sire's side and lets out a deep breath. Her face is drained of any color or warmth, "I...I do not know what else to say. I--I was so afraid, John. So...afraid."
John puts a hand on Svetlana's shoulder and squeezes, "I can't even begin to imagine what you have been silently suffering through for all these years, Svetlana..."
Her story brings a bloody tear to John's eye. He reaches out and gently rubs his Childe's shoulder. His voice shakes a little as he speaks, "It's--it's just so fucking horrible, isn't it?"
John turns his gaze downwards, to the floor, "Where...where do we go from here, hmm? What do we do now?"
Svetlana stares off into the distance and blandly answers, "I do not know."
John hesitantly asks, "Can you still fight the SI? Can you still do this? If you want out, I WILL understand. The others will understand, too. If you want, I could even--"
Svetlana holds up her hand and shakes her head, "Nyet. I must fight. I am not scared little girl anymore, John. I am Banu Haqim, of the Blade of Haqim. I must pass Judgment."
As a Banu Haqim, her Clan Compulsion compels and drives her to punish those who have transgressed against her (or a "code" of some sort).
"But you're still my Childe! I don't want you to get hurt! If you need some time off, you should take it! I'm your Sire. I only want the best for you."
Svetlana shakes her head again, "Da. I know. But...I must fight. I need to fight. I want to fight."
With some determination in her eyes, she looks straight into her Sire's eyes and demands, "I want to Judge that govniuk (RU: shithead)."
John solemnly nods and promises her, "OK, absolutely. If you...if you think you're up for it--"
She growls and bares her fangs, "I am, John. We will find him and I...will. Judge. Him."
It is clear that the trauma of that time still sticks to Ms. Bobrov on a cellular level. Also, she lacks the funds required for extremely specialized therapy that she so desperately needs.
John nods again and offers, "Absolutely. If there's anything, ANYTHING at all, just let me know, OK? We'll...we'll make this right, alright? We have to. As--as long as you're up for it. Tonight was...a goddamn mess."
Svetlana weakly nods her head and wipes her sanguine tears away with her sleeve, "Da. It was mess. Very much."
She licks her dry lips and stares at her Sire for a few moments, "John?"
"Yes, Svetlana?"
"Are you keeping...secrets from me?"
John laughs uncomfortably and rubs the base of his neck. He shakes his head frantically and avoids eye contact, "What? N--no." The shakiness in his tone betrays the truth of the matter.
"Are you sure?" Svetlana asks again. She sounds worried and concerned.
John laughs nervously again, "What? Of course! W--why would I keep secrets from you? That's--that's preposterous!" His voice cracks and his cheeks turn a bit red.
Svetlana glares at him with some discomfort and prods, "John. Are you hiding something from me?"
"No! I'm not hiding anything."
The silence that follows is palpable. Svetlana narrows her eyes, "Are you...sure? Why are you not looking at me, John?"
John gulps. His throat has suddenly gone dry. He tries his best to remain calm and composed, but it's not working out well for him. He blinks rapidly and his shriveled heart begins to race.
Svetlana leans in closer towards him. Her lips tighten as she scrutinizes her Sire, "You are hiding something, no? Is there something you're not telling me, John? Something...from your past, maybe?"
John scratches his chin and turns away, "I--I don't know what you're talking about."
"John..."
"I'm telling you the truth, dammit!"
Svetlana recoils back and gasps, "What is wrong with you, John? What is happening here? I--I do not understand...I only ask you simple question. You--you are good man, John--"
John sighs and looks down at his shoes. He interrupts his Chile with a scoff, "I--I wasn't always a good man, Svetlana. You got me, heh. I was a terrible, awful man, actually. I was an asshole."
He shakes his head and ruefully chuckles, "Aw, shit. I guess I gotta do this, too, huh? Well, it's only fair. You told me all about your past, it's only fair that I tell you all about mine."
Svetlana's expression softens as she nods, "Da. It is necessary, no?"
John nods back and takes a deep breath. His heart is still beating quite rapidly, "Well, if we're going to do this, then you're gonna have to promise me something."
"Promise you what?"
"That you won't lunge forward and try to attack me or anything. I--I did some pretty messed up things back in my mortal life, Svetlana. I wasn't always this goody two shoes guy you've come to know over the past 5 years."
Svetlana nods and promises her Sire, "I will not do that, John. All I know is that you are good man now. I trust you. Completely."
John's chest tightens as he hears these words of assurance and trust. He lets out a sigh and nods, "OK. Alright. Here we go...strap in on a ride through the John Suarez memory lane. It gets bumpy, just...hold tight."
It all began in Magnolia City. The Swinging 1960s were in full effect. Space, civil rights, 'Nam, and so on. John was in the midst of it all. His ultra-religious mum had just died, but it wasn't peaceful, if anything, it was preventable.
"She was a real Jesus freak, Svetlana. I tried, so--so many times, to talk sense into her. I tried to get a doctor to see her, but that went about as well as you'd expect."
Eventually, she died, leaving John's all alone and with a lot of unresolved issues. John's father, a Mexican laborer, was never really in the picture to begin with. John never knew the guy and was dissuaded from asking.
All his mother would ever tell him was that his dad was just "some handsome beaner" she had met long before she came to Jesus. Yup.
"That's...how she described him," John laughs nervously and wrings his hands together. He's very nervous, and rightfully so. "That's how my own mum referred to my dad, yeah." John chuckles bitterly and looks down at the floor.
He has a sad smile on his face, but his eyes are welling up with bloody tears, "She...she was a piece of work, huh? A real piece of work. A pain on the best of days and a nuisance on the worst. Then again, she did provide for me..."
As a child, he recalls seeing his mother dressed in some diner uniform: candy-striped shirt and matching short skirt, white stockings, a paper hat, and shiny black shoes. She smiled, but it was always a tired and worn-out one.
She always complained about the skirt's length.
Her hair was always in a bun, and her lips were always covered in bright red lipstick of the cheap variety. Her other job was as a part-time secretary for some industrial tycoon. It paid a little better than the diner, but she was still exhausted and stressed out most of the time.
She worked a lot. When she wasn't slinging hash in the diner or shuffling papers at the fancy art deco office, she was out somewhere else, doing something else. It was just the 2 of them for the longest time. She raised him on her own. It was rough, but they somehow made do.
John was able to go to college, for a short 2-year course on writing. He did his best, aced his exams, and came out on the top. His mom didn't show up for his graduation as she was busy at some tent revival, throwing off her meager savings at the feet of some slimy preacher.
"I--I did it without her, Svetlana. My whole mortal life, I did everything without her. She was...she was there, but only physically. Most of the time, it was just me and my typewriter, or pen, or whatever," John says with a wistful, nostalgic look in his eye.
There's also some sadness there, too. His lips curl upwards a bit.
By the time his mother had passed on, John had secured for himself a very comfy and well-paying job at a now-defunct yellow rag. It was a job offer that was too good to refuse. He worked as a junior feature writer and would occasionally dip his toes in other areas.
It wasn't the most prestigious (or well-respected, let alone well-liked) of publications, but the pay was great, the benefits were solid, and the company had a good track record of being in the green despite all the loathsome filth they'd constantly churn out.
For a guy like him, it was a pretty good damn deal.
And he fit in with the place he worked at- snug as a bug, one might say. John was a bit of a contrarian asshole. He strongly disliked all the talk going around (at that time) of Civil Rights for black folk, amongst other things.
Despite being half-Mexican himself, he tried ever-so-desperately to fit in with the club (tm). He really exuded "pick-me" vibes.
If someone, especially a woman, said orange, John Suarez would butt in and say not-orange in a very smug and condescending manner. He'd do this just to get a negative reaction out of people.
He was actually willing to go and fight in Vietnam, but he got turned away (and laughed out of the recruitment center) due to his weight and short stature.
"In retrospect, I really dodged a bullet there, heh. I was just so...nasty all the time. And well, the propaganda back then, whoof, it was crazy. I was paranoid about seeing commies in my socks, haha!"
This nasty and cynical contrarian behavior was likely his own hardened shell that he had created as a result of his mother's religious zealotry. It was an act he would put up to try and impress others, especially his co-workers and his friends.
But, after a while, he realized that no one was buying it. So, he had to up the crudeness and uncultured nature of his persona.
"And that's when it began..."
His boss, also a major dickhead, called him in 1 evening and ordered him to go and write a scathing (preferably) review on a local African American singer who was in the area, performing at a concert.
That lady was quite popular with the peeps of Magnolia City, but she wasn't the biggest fan of the government or the system. She had even expressed some solidarity with the Vietnamese people in their struggles against American Imperialism.
The rag had a bone to pick with this young woman and was trying its darndest best to make her look bad, ruin her life, and discredit her in the public eye.
"Heh, my boss's voice sounded so fucking nasally and annoying. The guy was such an asshole. He was an old, bald greasy guy in his 40s who was really into all the Jim Crow shit. It even scared the hell outta me back then."
The bossman would routinely refer to John as a "fucking half-caste". The man would make it a point to be as bigoted and vile as possible, and John was always there to egg him on and feed the flame, even if he himself was the butt of the "joke".
"That's why he chose me for the job, I guess. Saw a bit of himself...in me. Ugrh." The Assamite grimaces and shudders at the very thought. He shakes his head and rubs his face with his hands. He feels dirty, unclean, and degraded.
"Anyway, I was the obvious choice, given my illustrious history. But the boss had his own reasons for sending me there. It was a nice concert hall. Beautiful velvety curtains, packed to the fucking brim, and all the lights were on. It was all so nice and beautiful and elegant, Svetlana."
He smiles fondly at the memory and nods, "The lighting was just perfect. I...I remember, I had a notebook and pen with me. I had my camera, too. I took photos and shit. She was...she was so goddamn beautiful. Her voice, too, it was..."
"N--Never mind. So, I went and saw the show. It was great. I didn't know much about music, but damn, could she sing."
As wistful and reminiscent as John is in the here-and-now, his initial reaction was a complete and utter opposite.
"I went in there with a preconceived notion. I found this lovely and classy young woman who had a--a great voice, real talent, y'know. But I was, I dunno--out for blood, I guess."
The lady in question was named Ladonna Hughes. She was in her late-20s, had lovely frizzy hair, a slim figure, and an infectious smile.
"She was just beautiful, Svetlana. Absolutely stunning. Even I admit, I was initially mesmerized when she opened her mouth and started to sing, and then...well--she sang her heart out that night. Sang like a goddamn goddess. It was...incredible. Truly...incredible now that I think back on it."
John felt something stir inside him during that performance. He felt...something. Something warm, fuzzy, and good. Ladonna was resplendent in a shiny sequins dress that glittered under the dazzling lights.
"She was like beauty itself, Svetlana. Impeccable, tasteful, and a--a goddess. But the bossman wanted her to be the opposite of those things. So, I did what any loyal, obedient, and subservient lapdog would do. I obeyed orders and did what he wanted."
After the show ended, he came back, sat in front of his brown-colored typewriter...clack, clack, clack. The venomous words flew out with such ease that John felt a high (that usually comes from tearing decent people down from a place of relative safety and distance).
He didn't understand or question why it was so easy for him to type all this crap out.
"I typed up a VERY nasty little article and sent it back to the editor. I...I wasn't proud of what I had done, Svetlana. But I did it, and I felt good about it, at the time. REAL good."
The very last lines of that foul article read: "And one can't help but ask oneself- is all this Civil Rights talk a huge mistake? Well, we are starting to think it is. Subpar Negro mediocrity being awarded and even lauded is the last thing the culture needs. It might be a hard pill for America to swallow, but better sooner rather than later."
(It was all John's words, mind you; the editor didn't really have to do much, save for a few grammar fixes here and there.)
"Well, shit. Now you know, Svetlana. You now know who I was. That's--that's me, Svetlana. I used to be...that. I used to be that kind of guy. I don't expect you to forgive me, and I hope that this won't change how you view me, but..."
He stops for a moment and adds, "Oh, yeah...you're wondering how this all connects to my Sire. It does. It...does."
The woman who'd go on to become John's Sire, Fatima Ibn Rashid (a Banu Haqim Elder of the Blade of Haqim), was present in the audience that very night. She seated in the back, dressed in casual wear- dark bell bottoms, a plain blouse, and a colorful scarf.
"She was--I didn't even notice her when I walked in. I think I took her picture..."
In truth, Fatima was deeply in love with Ladonna. Imagine if something like THAT had gotten out back then! It was only much later that John became aware of his Sire's relationship with Ladonna.
"I shall think of you / Think of you / Think of you / Till I die" Ladonna sang that as she looked straight into the eyes of the woman she loved. No one really clocked it back then, but Fatima had to hold back tears of blood. She simply smiled and nodded back at her lover.
After the concert, they simply touched foreheads in the dressing room and held each other's hands. They whispered words of love and affection to one another. Fatima gave Ladonna a bouquet of white lilies and kissed her cheek.
After that, they parted ways. Ladonna did a little meet-and-greet, signed a few autographs, posed for a few pics, the usual. The entire crowd (save for John) gave her a standing ovation that lasted for about 4 minutes.
Being the smug contrarian that he was, he simply folded his legs and looked all disinterested and apathetic.
"I mean, the applause was just insane, Svetlana! There were people standing and clapping and shouting and whistling and hollering. They loved her. It was something!"
Meanwhile, the woman John would come to know as his Sire, Fatima, was already preparing to leave. She brushed past him and disappeared into the cold winter night.
Eventually, poison must act. And act it certainly did. John's article spread like a goddamn wildfire due to its...incendiary nature. Poor Ladonna was inundated with angry mail and death threats, undue and unwanted attention, and all sorts of nasty crap.
The public was in an uproar, and the authorities had to get involved. It was a whole big mess, and she even had to go into hiding for a while. The yellow rag's circulation was up for a while, and the boss was pleased with John's work.
He received a big bonus that month and tickets to Varosha, Cyprus- quite a popular tourist destination back in the 60s.
In time, the pressure got so bad, that poor Ladonna completely withdrew from the public altogether. Scheduled appearances were abruptly cancelled, she became very reclusive, and it somehow leaked that Ladonna was a lesbian when she was caught with another woman, having some fun.
The vultures in the yellow press fucking ran with that, like there was literally nothing else of importance going on in the world at the time.
Ladonna's career was effectively over. She moved to someplace outside Magnolia City and didn't even bother to show her face in public no more.
Fatima, for her part, was absolutely horrified at the turn of events. She did everything in her power to track down Ladonna, but it was futile.
By the time the Elder Assamite had tracked her lover, it was already too late. Ladonna Hughes was found, suspended from a ceiling fan in a small motel room, hanging from a rope. There were withered white lilies at her feet.
A note was left on the bedside table, which simply read: "I just can't do this no more. It's all too much, the media circus, the madness. I'm sorry. Fatima, I love you. I've never forgotten you. Oh, Fatima, your smile, your touch, it meant so much to me. I couldn't say for sure today whether your eyes were blue or grey."
The note ended: "I shall think of you. Think of you, think of you, till I die."
With bloody tears running down her cheeks, Fatima pocketed the note (for obvious reasons) and took it upon herself to cremate the body of her dead lover and spread the ashes across the waters.
"I killed her, Svetlana. The woman that my Sire was in love with...I killed her. I didn't need a gun or a knife or cyanide to do it. I did it, smugly, from the comfort of my...cigarette smoke-ridden workplace, I--"
John buries his face in his hands and sobs, tears of blood seeping through the cracks of his fingers, "Oh god, Svetlana, I KILLED HER!"
Svetlana simple places a reassuring hand on her Sire's shoulder.
John lifts his head and looks back at Svetlana with a pained expression on his face, "It--it isn't over yet..."
After that, Fatima began her investigation. She'd stalk the yellow rags, read through the articles, and dealt with anyone who seemed like they deserved to die.
Suicide is after all, a form of murder. Social murder. John and other merchants of lies and tripe are the ones who were ultimately responsible for Ladonna's untimely death.
"She'd read through them all and if she felt like someone needed to be...Judged, she'd go and just do it, and that's it. No one ever found the bodies and the MCPD gave up on searching for 'em."
By then, John was happy as can be- at the top of the world, as it were. He was getting ready for his all-expenses-paid vacay to Cyprus. The plane tickets were already booked, the night sky was clear, the stars were twinkling, and it was a great time. The flight was due to leave in less than an hour.
"The bossman, the same bastard who had ordered me to write that shit, the same bastard who'd call me a half-caste and all that racist garbage, he...he gave me this huge ass raise and a promotion along with the promise of a corner office in the new building when I came back."
As John was dragging his suitcases out of his house, Fatima was already outside, waiting and watching. Darkness gleamed in the Elder Assassin's eyes. Her fangs were fully out, as were her claws.
"My Sire...she was apparently still out there searching for ALL of those who were responsible for Ladonna's suicide. And I--I'm right there, near the tippy-top of her list. I don't know where she is or how she is, but--"
She was there to kill him that night. And, well, she did. After all, to Embrace someone, a Kindred must first drain them, exsanguinate them, of all their blood.
She approached this man from behind and viciously grabbed him. Her long and pointy fangs burrowed into his skin as he struggled, wheezed, and gasped. She drained him of his blood and discarded his corpse.
"She did the deed right at my front door. It was cold and lonely. There was no one there, no one to help, no one to see. It was...the end for me."
Or so he thought.
Fatima, her mouth crimson with fresh blood, knelt down besides his motionless body and ran her hand across his body. Her lips trembled and she felt...pity and remorse when she looked at John.
Her bitter expression softened, and she used her razor-sharp nails and cut her wrist open, allowing her own Vitae to flow. She opened John's mouth and allowed some of her Vitae to seep inside him.
"She...Embraced me. Gave me a second chance. A--an opportunity to make amends, to be a better man, a better person, y'know? It was...a kindness that I wasn't worthy of. A--A--Another shot at things."
The process was slow and excruciating. The first few nights were hell for him. John spent his first nights as a Fledgling Assamite locked inside his house. He couldn't leave, his entire body was sore and in constant pain, and the Hunger was unbearable.
Fatima would visit him, usually with a mortal to feed from, and offer some words of encouragement and advice, albeit in a very cold and distant manner.
Her mien still indicated that she was holding back some deep-seated rage and resentment for the man who was the most responsible for killing the woman she was in love with, but she still chose not to kill him.
Killing him is probably something that Ladonna wouldn't have wanted. It wouldn't be a way to honor her memory.
Regardless, Fatima had her own reasons for doing so, reasons that she alone is privy to. Even John isn't too sure why she chose him while killing the other scandalmongers and slop-pushers.
"To THIS VERY NIGHT, I'm still not sure why she spared me, and not the others. I guess I'll never really know. I've always been a bit curious, but...it's a sensitive issue, so I've chosen not to ask about it or prod too much."
He was her Childe, and she was his Sire. Well, formally at least. Was it an authorized Embrace?
Ehhhh...
Magnolia City was going through some issues in the Kindred leadership structure back in the 60s. By the end of all the long and drawn-out hullabaloo, a bunch of Salubri (3-eyed vampires) had gained control over the Domain.
"Anyways, I could feel Fatima's disdain and loathing every time she was around. She didn't want anything to do with me, but she did it anyway. She did it, because she...probably felt sorry for me."
Svetlana is just sitting there, silently listening. Her facial expressions haven't changed.
"And that's--that's pretty much the skinny, Svetlana. I dunno what you think about this or how you feel, but...there's something else I haven't told you yet. There's a whole lot more to the story."
Of course there is.
Fatima eventually left Magnolia City a few weeks after John's Embrace. Some say she was Beckoned off to somewhere else. As an Elder bloodsucker, that was kinda expected, really. Or maybe she couldn't bare to be in the city where she had lost the love of her Unlife.
"Before she disappeared, she left me in the care of this Palestinian doctor named George Fateh. Same Clan. I've talked a lot about him before."
"Take care of this one, Dr. George. He is fast, too fast for his own good at times. If he becomes trouble, Judge him. It would certainly be a shame if that is the case. He...he shows some promise to our cause, nevertheless. But keep him under your watchful eye all the same, yes?" This was the last thing that John overheard his Sire tell Dr. George.
She then walked out the door without looking back or saying another word.
"Well, well, well. Fatima's Childe, eh? You do not know the power that courses through your veins. She has told me all about you, Fledgling. Come, follow me. There is much for you to learn about the Blade of Haqim. Much indeed!"
After a night, John took the opportunity to run away from the man whose care he had been thrust into.
"I um...booked it, heh."
Well, from there, John goes on to tell his Childe about how he fell in with a (sort of) wrong crowd, the kinds that have fangs and claws, too.
Eventually, he would go on to goad a Lasombra named Jacob into Diablerizing a Hecata Elder named Giordano.
Svetlana gasps at that but chooses to say nothing. She simply nods and continues to listen. Her eyes widen slightly, but that's about it. She takes it all in. It is...a lot to process. Her Sire has quite a history!
"I--I Diablerized a few, too, but I kinda feel bad...looking back on it. Poor Jacob. I uh...hope he's doing OK, wherever he is, whatever he's up to. I scared him."
(Jacob is definitely NOT doing OK, he still struggles with Giordano's "essence" and voice in his head and whatnot. Guy was a freaking Elder, after all.)
John then goes on to talk about how he'd eventually found his way back to Dr. George. John still remembers standing on that porch, shamefaced and head hung low. He was so embarrassed when he stood there.
However, Dr. George wasn't even angry or mad or disappointed. He was extraordinarily patient, kind, and understanding. He welcomed the then-Fledgling with open arms.
The little old man had an eternal spring in his step and always seemed to have a little nugget of wisdom to share.
"You have run far and wide, Fledgling. Come inside, sit, rest your body, tell me how it went. I hear our very own Elder Necromancer, Giordano, went missing recently. YOU wouldn't happen to know anything about that, would you? Come, come."
John turns his head aside, "I...really didn't deserve him, Svetlana. From there, he set me on the right path and showed me the way of the Blade of Haqim. And, well, the rest you already know, since we've talked about it before."
He sniffles and adds, "God, I hope the old man's doing OK. He's uh...I think he chose to stay in Magnolia City while I...chose to leave it all behind and try to--try to do good elsewhere."
Dr. Fateh often told his charge, "What you did, of course, is unforgivable. But Fatima still saw...something in you, Fledgling. As much as I am not a...fan of vengeance for vengeance's sake, Fatima would've been justified in leaving your exsanguinated corpse on your doorstep. Yet, she chose not to. What does this tell us, hmm?"
John remembers sheepishly replying, "That...we all deserve second chances to make amends and right our wrongs?"
The Assamite doctor merely smiled and chuckled as he put his hands behind his back and strolled around the room.
The doc looked over his shoulder and said, "Perhaps there is hope for you, Fledgling. Tomorrow night, we go to the racetrack. Your Celerity is wild- it requires some...taming, yes?"
That's pretty much it from John's side of things. He's now done. He takes a moment to compose himself and looks at his Childe, silently gauging her reaction. Svetlana sits there quietly, still listening, and nodding slowly.
"That's it, Svetlana. That's what I've um...been keeping from you. I'm sorry, I should've told you sooner."
Svetlana weakly nods, "And I am also sorry for not telling you my--"
John cuts her off, "No, no, no. You don't owe anyone an apology. What happened to you was--was truly awful. I'm sorry for what happened to you, Svetlana."
As John was busy talking about his past, what happened to Svetlana stuck to his mind throughout this heart-to-heart conversation.
For his part, he feels really guilty and bad for what his actions caused to happen to poor Ladonna Hughes. Now, John's trying so hard to be a better man, a good man. To make amends and do right by those who matter.
That's the man that Svetlana has come to know in her 5 years of Unlife. John Suarez, a product of the tumultuous 1960s, exchanged his pen (typewriter) for the sword. It's usually the other way around, innit?
Maybe there's an opportunity for him to make amends, do good, and Judge the unjust. He's certainly taken the effort, contritely and sincerely.
As for Svetlana Bobrov, she has suffered so much, so much more than he ever has or likely ever will. She does wonder, what became of the other 3 men who raped her on that horrible evening?
She's seen Obed Gallant, who now commands and leads the Unit 8211 branch here in the UAE. What of the other 3 men and that 1 woman? Did they fall down the steps and break their necks? Did they die early? Did they (at the very least) get caught doing something similar, and stopped from doing so?
Sadly, no, no, and no.
1 of the men is now someone who works with the UKLFI (the UK Lawyers for Israel). Go figure.
The 2nd guy is, not surprisingly, an important Rabbi in Australia closely associated with the notorious Settler movement back in Israel. Not surprising.
The 3rd guy is a CEO of a biopharma company, worth billions of dollars, that's connected to the notorious Pentex Group.
And last but not least, that woman who was there, recording the whole vile thing and cheering the boys on. Here's the kicker: she's part of an Israeli feminist organization. That's...such despicable irony.
Or maybe it's par for the course, considering it's fuckin' Israel. Scum like that are pretty representative of the only democracy in the Middle East (tm).
To this very night, they remain unpunished for their crimes. And it's people like Svetlana (and countless others) that are left with that horrific trauma, misery, and despair.
All the while, those who caused it are living it up and have even more money, power, and success than ever before. Their wealth and influence continue to grow. They're getting away with it. The world isn't fair sometimes; you learn that shit pretty early in life.
Svetlana doesn't say a word. She merely sits there, looking at her Sire. She leans forward and hugs him, red tears rolling down both their cheeks. She whispers into his ear, "I forgive you, John. I--I forgive you. You--you are now a--a good man, John."
Svetlana knows that what happened to Ladonna Hughes was a horrible tragedy, inexcusable, even. And it's likely that no one will ever truly know why Fatima chose to spare John and not the others.
She knows that her Sire has done much good in her short time in this world that she now finds herself in, this world of darkness and secrets.
John hugs her tightly and replies, "And you're...a good person, too. Thank you for everything, Svetlana. Thanks for...understanding."
Svetlana breaks the hug and wipes the bloody tears off her face, leaving red smudges across her cheeks. She smiles tightly, "I am here for you, as you are also here for me. That is...good, yes? Watching each other's backs, like you said, no?"
John nods, "Of course, Svetlana. You can always count on me. And, um, I'll be there for you, too. We'll be there for each other. We have to, especially now."
He takes a moment to look around his Childe's Haven, "I know it was hard- you telling me what happened to you- but it had to be done, it had to be said. It took a lotta strength and courage from your end, huh?"
Svetlana turns her gaze downward, "And your story...is not easy, no? All that baggage? Do you think Fatima has forgiven you?"
"I haven't seen her or heard from her since she left that night. I'd like to think that she has, but I'm not gonna fool myself into thinking that."
He then shrugs and adds, "It's been over, what, 50 years? I honestly doubt we'll cross paths again, even if we wanted to. But I'd still like to think that she has for--forgiven me. She had so much anger and resentment towards me, but...she spared me all the same. Why?"
John sighs and continues, "I mean, I don't know if I've truly forgiven myself for what happened. But what I think or how I 'feel' doesn't really matter. It shouldn't. This is my wrongdoing, and I've got an eternity to make up for it. That's a...that's a pretty long time, heh."
"Da. Is very long time. Do you think it will--" Svetlana's voice cracks and her lips tremble. She closes her eyes and takes a deep breath. Her dead heart aches as she thinks back to those terrible memories, "--get better for all of us?"
John can see that his Childe is still in pain. He slowly and gently places his cold hand on top of hers, "I dunno, Svetlana. Maybe it does, maybe it doesn't. At the very least, I hope things don't get any worse than they are right now."
A sincere answer, all things considered.
Svetlana accepts it with a quick nod, "Hmm. Is much to think about. You promise me, John?"
"Promise you what?"
"That you will help me to Diablerize someone when time is right?" There's a dark glint in her green eyes. She's dead serious. A little too serious, perhaps.
"If that's what you want to do, I'm right there with you, Svetlana. When it happens, we'll do it and I'll guide you through it- gently this time. If it doesn't happen, then we can wait; we're Kindred after all, heh. When you're ready, I'm ready."
"It--it will be like you said the last time- unforgettable experience, da?"
John smiles from ear to ear and nods his head as way of response.
Svetlana then stands up from her sofa. She wipes some more red tears off her face, "Thank you, John. Spasibo. You have--you have been good Sire to me, a very good one. Good teacher and trainer as well. Thank you for everything."
John smiles and gets up, "And uh...thanks for listening, Svetlana. I know I've probably altered your perception of me as this really great guy, but I--I wasn't always this way. It took a lot of sharp turns to get to where I am now."
She merely gives her Sire a weak smile in response. The pair exchange pleasantries, and she wishes him a goodnight. As John is leaving her Haven, he feels...lighter, but only by a bit. He still has a ton of weight on his shoulders, but he's glad that it's been shared.
On his way back to his Haven, he puts his earphones deep in his ear and puts on some Kristin Mainhart tunes to listen to on the long walk back.
John knows that it'll take some time to get over all of this, but he hopes that he's made a good start tonight. Maybe 1 night, he can look back and find the answers to questions about his Sire that still linger in his mind.
Until that night comes, he'll just have to do good and keep in touch with his Humanity.
As for Svetlana Bobrov, she lays back on her couch and just sits there, silently thinking about what the future holds for her and those closest to her- John, Samir, Zeina, Abdullah, Saoirse, Camille, Paul, Tommy, Garth, and whoever else she'll cross paths with in her Unlife.
She hopes that things will get better not just for her, but for all of them. That is the hope and dream that they'll cling to. That is the hope that'll keep 'em going?
But, where to? Would they even survive? After tonight's skirmishes, the SI thugs are now on full alert and are scouring the entire UAE for the blank bodies. No stone is to be left unturned.
It's gonna be a bumpy ride in the coming nights, no doubt about it!
As the sun is about to rise, Svetlana makes her way to her bed and gets settled in. She feels heavy and sluggish. Still sore from the battle earlier in the evening, she groans as she slowly lays down.
Her last thoughts before the day-sleep embraces her is on her Sire- from their first time ever meeting after her post-Embrace Frenzy, their sparring matches, his training lessons, to the night where she had confided in him- this very night.
Tonight's conversation about their broken and troubling histories- how far they've both come, how far they still have to go, and what the future holds for them.
If there's any future at all...
As for John Suarez, his mind drifts to that song that Ladonna had sung on that night. It was something she herself had written, apparently. Before she could name it or get it released, well...you know.
The lyrics loop in his mind as he is dragged into the welcoming abyss of the day sleep.
"I've forgotten you / I never think of you / The way you walked, the way you talked, the things you used to say."
By the time the sun rears its head, the last lines of the song ring out in his mind as he completely taken in, "Oh, what a lie! / I shall think of you / Think of you / Think of you / Till I die."
That's when the Assamite Neonate finally slips away for the day-sleep to claim him, his body as still and cold as a corpse. Svetlana's eyes shut and her body goes completely under; her final thoughts are of the Wraith that is bound to her- little Chloe.
And with that, the Kindred in this particular corner of the globe are fast asleep.
Chapter 17: Clash
As the sun relentlessly beams down on the gilded city below, the Kindred continue to slumber the day away. The sun bathes the city in a golden-yellow glow. Cars and large trucks zoom about the streets. The city's skyline shimmers and sparkles in the early morning sunlight.
The people of this land are hustling and bustling about their daily routines and duties. They are going about their business in the UAE as they would do in any other given day.
Meanwhile, the Emirati authorities are doing their best to cover up all the chaos and destruction that occurred last night. The papers report some fires near the parking lot, nothing to worry about, folks! Just some old cars catching fire! Hey, look, shiny, why don't you forget all about it, habibi?
After all, you came all the way here to spend (waste) dirhams on useless and meaningless trinkets, didn't you?
There are now even more questions than answers. All the while, the Kindred sleep in peace. Well, most of them do at least. Some, however, find themselves lulled in by dreams.
Dreams of the past and present, dreams of hopes and wishes, dreams of things that have been and dreams of things that might be.
John thinks of the man who mentored him, showed him a better way was possible for all- Kindred, mortal, or otherwise. Dr. George Fateh. John would often say, "Fatima might be my Sire, but Dr. George will always be someone I consider as one."
Apart from being 1 (of the many) founding members of the Blade of Haqim, Dr. Fateh taught John a lot about the plight of the Palestinian people and how the Blade should strive to help them in any way possible, by any means necessary.
"We are not just warriors, Fledgling. We are scholars, physicians, poets, writers, teachers, singers, philosophers, and more. We are...a people. A people that seek a better world, Fledgling- a more just world. That is what we seek, something you must always remember, now that you are 1 of us."
John's blurry memory of Dr. George Fateh then fades away as the abyssal nothingness of the day-sleep continues to hold him in its cold embrace. The rest of the Kindred do likewise. They sleep the day away.
Dr. George Fateh fled to Magnolia City, alongside with Fatima and a few other Blade of Haqim members because Israel's actions were getting more and more brutal as the nights went on. It was getting perilous for them to stay and fight against the then-still-young Zionist entity.
With sanguine tears running down their ashen faces, they fled Palestine. Staying there, would in all likelihood, incur even greater wrath of their enemies, be they Kine or Kindred.
Some fled to faraway lands whilst others chose to stay and fight. Other Blade members opted for countries that were closer- stories say that they even walked all the way to their intended destinations.
There were even Garou in Palestine, but the Israelis either had their own Garou (or a whole load of silver munitions and deadly weapons) to wipe them out or send them fleeing for their lives.
Dr. Fateh himself, despite being a doctor, had done his fair share of Judging. It was said that he killed 10 mortal members of the Haganah (precursor to the IDF) in the blink of an eye. He had quite the mastery over the Celerity Discipline.
Not surprisingly, this earned the Assamite doctor quite the reputation amongst friend and foe alike. The Israeli Kindred were reluctant to call a Blood Hunt on him, as it would jeopardize their relationship with their mortal counterparts and expose their true nature as bloodsuckers.
After all, the Masquerade still had to be upheld, somehow.
Regardless, Kindred or Kine, the Zionists were absolutely hellbent on ethnically cleansing Palestine.
In due time, that great and mighty star of heat begins its dramatic descent into the horizon. The city is bathed in deep-red hues. As the sun slowly sinks below the horizon, the golden-yellow light gradually shifts to a pink-orange hue.
The stars start to peek out from the twilight sky. The moon begins its climb towards the heavens. Night falls over Al-Kushraf once more.
As the last rays of sunlight disappear, the night's shadows grow longer. Night lights buzz and beam on across the city. The air is warm and crisp as the darkness begins to envelop the entire region.
The nightlife here is just as lively as it is during the day. More so than Dubai, apparently. The bars, nightclubs, restaurants, and other venues of entertainment are alive with warm and sweaty bodies. The streets are full of pedestrians, people on the move, cars and trucks zipping by, and more.
Tried and hunched-over office drones meander onto an already full bus. Broken migrant construction workers trudge past a row of brightly lit restaurants. Loud and boisterous partying students stumble down the street, laughing and singing in Spanish.
As the people of this gilded cage go about their lives and whatnot, the Kindred begin to wake up and stir from their slumber, each with their own plans and tasks for the evening.
The SI thugs are on high alert after last night's skirmishes. Their eyes and ears are wide open and ready for anything that might come their way. They're still no closer to finding out who the blank bodies are, or where they are hiding, but the hunt continues, nonetheless.
Patrols are doubled and Commander Gallant logs on for a chat with his superiors at the Israeli High Command (ILHC). He sits at his desk, wipes some crumbs off his uniform, and clears his throat before initiating the secretive text chat.
OBED: "Commander Obed Gallant reporting in."
ILHC: "What is the situation, Commander Gallant? We've just received the reports of your Lieutenants. These latest developments are not pleasing, to say the least."
OBED: "I admit that last night's attacks were a failure on our part. They split us up- intentionally. We are now working on finding out how these blank bodies were able to do so."
ILHC: "It has something to do with those SD cards they've been looting and salvaging from the corpses of our fallen heroes."
OBED: "Yes, that appears to be the case. Lt. Davidai wisely suggested installing worms deep in our devices. We're also looking into our own ranks, to see if any of them could be compromised."
ILHC: "See that you do so. It seems like the enemy knows far too much about us than they should."
OBED: "Yes, it should be the other way around."
ILHC: "How many did you lose last night?"
OBED: "The exact number is in the reports. You will forgive me if I do not remember it. Regardless, every one of them was a true hero of Am Yisrael. They will not be forgotten, I assure you."
ILHC: "You had better not. And you had better make sure that their sacrifice isn't in vain. Platitudes can only go so far, Commander Gallant."
OBED: "Of course, I understand. I won't fail again. I would be able to quadruple our capabilities if our operating budget for this sacred operation was increased."
ILHC: "That's simply out of the question, Commander Gallant. There's a reason why we chose this particular base in that particular city. It's supposed to be well-hidden. If we were to suddenly increase our operating budget, that would be sure to draw some...unwanted attention, you understand, yes?"
OBED: "I do. Very well then. Any news on additional, outside, 3rd party funding at least?"
ILHC: "No, our partners in the Coalition continue to deny any and all requests, especially from Unit 8211. They're not happy with the fact that we get results while they still concern themselves with the petty intricacies of so-called 'international law'."
OBED: "What of the Society of Leopold? I know they are reckless fanatics, but they have resources, influence, and money. I am sure they would be more than happy to help."
ILHC: "That's also out of the question, Commander Gallant. We cannot allow them access to our own resources and gathered intelligence. Who knows what they'll do if we were to give them even an inch? They are too unpredictable and not worth the hassle."
OBED: "Understood. Then I shall endeavor to keep things within the budget. As for our Mossad and Aman assets, we could use with a few more here in the UAE, especially in the capital city."
ILHC: "Negative. The reports coming out of Abu Dhabi are nothing short of disturbing, Commander Gallant."
OBED: "Yes, that would appear to be the case. The reports mentioned dead bodies floating and suspended in midair- our people. Somehow, the blank bodies or other malicious entities are utilizing some form of vile magic to keep us away from Abu Dhabi. I do not like it 1 bit."
ILHC: "We share your concern, Commander Gallant. Until then, focus on the threat in Al-Kushraf. At least your team was able to prevent sensitive data from being leaked out. Did you at least recover the bodies of the clandestine assets from Abu Dhabi?"
OBED: "Unfortunately, no. I dispatched a small team, but they all rapidly aged, withered, and died on the spot when the tips of their fingers made contact with the floating corpses. Others were savagely torn to shreds. Such horrors!"
ILHC: "Abu Dhabi is a lost cause, then. Given your Unit's recent encounters, Al-Kushraf remains your topmost priority. Are we clear, Commander Gallant?"
OBED: "Yes, we are. But with our recent losses, additional help would be greatly appreciated."
ILHC: "Do you doubt us, Commander Gallant? We have provided you and your team with what they need- do not overstep your boundaries, Commander. Know your place, soldier."
OBED: "I sincerely apologize. But the costs of moving the bodies of our fallen heroes- Am Yisrael's valiant sons and daughters- is a bit higher than I expected. They are not just corpses; they are the protectors and defenders of the Jewish Nation."
ILHC: "Indeed, you make a valid point, Commander Gallant. That being said, we are in talks with someone closely associated with the Pentex Group. They certainly have funding; it's just a matter of negotiating and strong-arming them to see to our needs and shared goals, where they may intersect."
OBED: "I have heard many things about them- some good, some bad. I have credible intelligence reports that state that Pentex has been infiltrated by blank bodies. Despite this, I am confident they can help us...provided they let us 'help' them with their blank body problem."
ILHC: "Very wise of you, Commander Gallant. That is an angle that we are playing in the ongoing discussions. Now, unless there are any more pressing concerns, you are dismissed. Keep us informed and may HaShem be with you on your sacred task. We will be watching you closely."
OBED: "May HaShem watch over you as well. Thank you for putting your trust in me. As God is my witness, I will not fail. B'ezrat HaShem, every blank body from here to Fujairah shall be wiped off the map."
The chat ends, the messages automatically self-delete. Commander Obed Gallant, that filthy rapist, puts his head in his hands and sighs deeply. He rubs his face and leans all the way back in his chair, feeling the pressure of leadership (especially now) get to him.
With an exasperated tone, he remarks, "Ugh. So much pressure, so little time to myself. It's hard, sometimes. But God is with me. As are the best and brightest of Am Yisrael. What more does a man need to succeed in the face of such odds, hmm?"
The Kindred of this region begin their nightly rituals, starting with...groaning and waking up from a day-long sleep.
Absalom, the Malkavian Elder, stirs in the last moments of his day-sleep. As he's coming around, he feels his mind drawn to...
...that place. The Malkavian Madness Network. Over the past few nights, he has been speaking to someone who is not quite "in" the Cobweb but was a Malkavian in her Unlife. She met Final Death a decade ago in Flimont City, USA.
However, instead of "assimilating" into the Tapestry, Madeline chose a VERY different path. Still, she somehow managed to find her way into Absalom's head.
She still sees, thinks, dreams, and feels- and talks, too!
Absalom's mind is teeming with voices and sounds. Creepy carnival music plays from surround sound speakers unseen. Voices of all kinds, ages, creeds, genders, and ethnicities cry out, some in despair and pain, others in madness, and a select few in laughter.
"I'm a bowl of rattlesnakes!" some nasally guy calls out while huffing what appears to be green fumes.
Another dude with a deep-fried Southern accent growls, "No nerves in your brain. S'all in your head. A--All in your head. So many...colors--"
The Malkavian Primogen grits himself and tunes out whatever further rambling tries to pelt and pierce his psyche. He pushes through the cacophony of discordant noise, like he has done throughout his very long, centuries-spanning Unlife.
The Primogen focuses on the voice he has been speaking to for the past few nights, Madeline Stephenson, that's her name. She has (and had) her own issues, no doubt. But she's...there. And that's all Absalom needs right now.
Eventually, he feels her presence. Computer wires, whirring noises of machinery, and screens- so many screens bright and alive. All form a vague composite of how Mauve looked like before she got turned to ash.
Absalom can barely make out much, but he sees blue eyes, once wild, now calm and collected and accepting of whatever "fate" this is. They're glazed over a bit. Her bottom lip trembles and she mumbles to herself in some weird, robotic language.
"St--stock market up--up by 18% this past y--year. No, month. Yes, month. Uh--uh, bonds down by 0.00165%. Anomaly. Mmm. Wait--wait. Need to--to...fix. Um..."
Even till now, Absalom can't tell what exactly is wrong with his fellow Malk- her voice takes on a more synthetic and clipped tone. Her blue eyes are all-too glassy and unfocused. The wires feel like they're attached to her head, her spine, and other parts of her body.
Absalom extends his mental feelers and senses nothing but code, data, and other digital trappings coursing through her body. Where Vitae would've once flowed, all he feels instead is technology unlike any other. Almost, godlike in a way.
She has been talking to him throughout their conversations, telling him her story (both in mortal life as some kind of financial reporter in Kansas City, USA and her Unlife in Flimont City), talking about things that happened to her, and her troubles and problems and such.
Absalom, being an Elder of low Humanity, simply shrugs most of it off as the ways of mortals, but Madeline's problems have sorta struck a chord in his shriveled and still heart, if only for a moment.
After a few seconds, Absalom calls out, "Hello, Mauve."
Madeline hitches and her pupils widen slightly when she hears that name, "Ah! You--You're back. It--it's Madeline, Absalom. I--I don't wanna be reminded of--of Mauve Lilac."
Madeline tries to focus beyond her mental space, the "divine" cybernetic landscape where she now finds herself and sees the face of the person who had called out to her. But there is...nothing. Only static and glitching out.
Absalom equably says, "I am here, Madeline...Stephenson. Tune out all else and focus yourself...focus yourself on the sound of my voice alone, Child of Malkav, for you are still his Childe, his Blood. Even Final Death and the choices you made will not change that."
Madeline makes something resembling a gulping sound and does as the Elder tells her. The many and numerous voices in the background slowly fade away, bit by bit, and are replaced with only the sound of Absalom's deep and authoritative voice.
Madeline finds her mind slowly clearing, and her eyes are becoming more and more focused, "Whoa. Hi, Absalom. How--how are you tonight? It is...night where you are, right?"
"Yes, Childe. The sun has already fallen. I can feel my body stirring from its state of rest. And yourself, what...time is it for you?"
"Yeah, I--I feel pretty good. My head feels...tighter and clearer, I guess. As for what time it is, well...it's all of it, really. I can feel it ALL- so deeply. Do you have any idea what that feels like?"
Absalom simply nods his head. The Malkavian Primogen has had his fair share of Unlife experience, even if it is different compared to most Kindred.
Madeline then inquires, "So, how are things down there? UAE, right?"
Absalom calmly replies, "The forces of the Second Inquisition have been drawn out- now, we must fight them. The Banu Haqim have already slain many, as I have been told, and we continue to make our own progress as well. Why do you ask?"
Madeline lets out a grating sigh that reverberates through the inside of Absalom's head, "Oh, y'know, well..."
"Yes, I know. However, the Inquisitors here are vastly different from those who--"
She cuts him off, "No. No, please. Do--Don't, Absalom. Just don't. I--"
Absalom presses on, "Why fret about the past? What has happened has happened. As tragic and unfortunate as it was, it cannot be undone. Focus only on that which is in front of you, Childe."
"I...I can't help but wonder, though, y'know."
"Wonder what?"
"N--Never mind. I still remember, Absalom. Those--those flames--my body--so bad, hurts--!"
Absalom gently shushes her, "Shh, shh. Do not dwell on such unpleasant memories, Child of Malkav. You were...simply a pawn in the schemes of an small-minded and entitled Kine. But now, focus only on that which is before us."
Madeline makes some gulping sounds, "Uh-huh. Mm-hmm. Sure, sure. E--Easier said than done, of course. Do you um...need something, Absalom?"
Absalom answers, "I feel, Madeline, that your unique abilities will be of use in our fight against the forces of the Second Inquisition here in Al-Kushraf."
With determined resolve, Madeline agrees, "Uh-huh. Y--Yeah, sure. I--I'll help. Anything to stop these assholes from hurting any more of us. You name it, and I'll help."
The Elder Primogen smiles and replies, "Good, good. For now, I advise you to wait. Stay put, as they say. In due time, you will come to our aid...Madeline Stephenson. Until then, we should perhaps get to know each other better."
"Oh, I forgot. How's Mr. Bean, your adopted Childe, correct? How come he doesn't come in here?"
"Mr. Bean is on his own path, his own journey. He has his own destiny to fulfill. I merely aid him in whatever way I can. As for why he is not 'here', his young mind is still not strong enough to endure the deeper recesses of the Weavery. His mental resolve requires some work; I shall have to aid my charge with that, yes."
"Oh, yeah. Yeah, I get that. Absolutely. This place ain't for everyone, heh. So, uh...how have you been?"
"I have been well, yes..."
The Elder and the long-gone woman spend a few minutes discussing mundane matters about this and that. Afterwards, Absalom's eyes open and he grunts as he gets up from his bed. He looks around his barely furnished penthouse bedroom, shrugs, stretches, and sighs as he makes his way out of his bedroom.
The sun has fallen completely by now. The night is young, and the city is alive with activity. The neon lights of the city's nightscape beam in Absalom's vision, illuminating the penthouse in a reddish glow.
Mr. Bean, the bleached hair Malkavian, is standing near the window and mumbling something under his breath. Absalom places his hand on his charge's shoulder and looks at the city below.
From all the way up here, vehicles zoom past in a blur, scores people flock up and down the sidewalks, and others have found their way into various clubs, nightclubs, and bars nearby. The nightlife here is thriving.
Mr. Bean licks his lips and bares his fangs, "Mmm, easy pickings, huh, Abs?"
"That is 1 way of seeing things, yes. Go, ready yourself, the night ahead is long and who knows what it holds."
Mr. Bean quickly scampers to his room to prepare himself. As he does that, Absalom shakes his head and slowly makes his way to the shower. It's a fairly quick one.
Mr. Bean takes longer, and his singing can be heard from all the way outside Absalom's bedroom. Enhanced vampiric senses and all. Absalom tunes out whatever contemporary gospel stuff his charge is belting out from his bathroom.
Once both Seers are done, they make their way out into the city below. Their unceasing Hunger gnaws at them. Their inner Beasts get restless at being denied thick, red satiation for so long!
Easy pickings...easy pickings abound in this city!
The nightlife is going strong in Al-Kushraf, with the bars, clubs, and eateries full to the brim with warm, vibrant, sweaty, and sometimes drunk patrons. Also, lots of dark corners to get frisky...or in the case of these 2 Lunatics, feed.
The duo weave in and out of the various crowds and pedestrians, looking for a suitable neck or wrist (or anywhere really) to bite into. They're also sensible enough to lick the fang wounds after feeding.
Somewhere else in this gilded cage...
Gallagher's Haven is on the 18th floor (or 28 floors). It's a rather wide apartment with 2 bedrooms, 2 bathrooms, a very large living room, a small dining room, a kitchen, and a balcony. It's barely furnished, but everything's neat and tidy, only because there's not much to keep neat and tidy.
The ex-Sheriff of Dubai is sitting in his living room, on a single seater sofa. He's naked from the waist down and there's a mortal woman in her early-20s sucking his dick while he plays a video game on the PS3.
Gallagher grunts and groans as he pushes her head down, forcing his semi-erect cock deeper and deeper down her throat. Her eyes roll to the back of her head, her cheeks go red, and the sucking sounds are drowned out by the sounds of action and gunfire coming from the wall-mounted TV.
With a hand still on the PS3 controller, he then pulls her hair and growls, "Suck it...oh, yeah! C'MON! Deeper! More! Urrrgh!"
His junk twitches and throbs as she continues to suck him off. The woman tries to match his rhythm and pushes her head all the way down, barely feeling the tip of his peepee reach the back of her throat.
Vampires do have trouble...getting it up. Especially violent ones with such low Humanity.
Gallagher, feeling frustrated, holds his PS3 controller, focuses on his game, and thrusts his hips up and down. With each thrust, her head bobs up and down and she swallows more of his cock.
This attempt at a blowjob goes on for a few more minutes. After a while, the woman pulls back, face sticky with sweat and bloody precum (every liquid in a vamp's body is blood, yes, even THAT ONE).
She's panting and her body is shaking. She breathes out unsteadily, "I'm so fucking close, babe. How--how about you go down on me next, huh?" She has an American accent, thin body, brown hair, and hazel eyes.
Gallagher is also panting, but it's more to do with the shooting sequence in his game. He ignores her and mashes buttons, moves analogue sticks, and pushes the left and right triggers a couple of times.
The woman is still waiting for her answer, her hand on his cock. She's rubbing it affectionately while looking up at the man, licking her lips, and breathing heavily.
Gallagher eventually glowers at her, "The fuck for?! Look, I--I got a guest coming here soon, so...beat it, alright?"
The mortal chick clicks her tongue, shakes her head, and rises up. Gallagher shoos her to the side as she's blocking his view, "Hey! Get the fuck outta my way! I'm playin' a game here!"
"Alright, alright, OK. Sheesh. It's just a stupid video game, babe. But you were absolutely gonna do me, right? Like, go down on me and all?" she pouts as she moves aside and bats her eyes seductively.
Gallagher snorts, "Um...no. That sounds kinda gay. Honestly, if you want your taco licked, go play around with another girl or something. The man receives, the chick gives, that's how it's been for-fucking-ever, so why change it, huh?"
The woman shrugs and begins to pick up her clothes from off the floor, "What?! Come on, babe. We're like...kinda in a relationship or whatever. And I'd like for us to--"
Gallagher shushes her and leans forward as he goes on with his incessant button-mashing. Sounds and lights emanate from the screen as the player seems to get the final kill shot on the opponents.
"Shut up, will ya?! You're getting on my nerves! UGHRAH! That fucking light! So bright!" He recoils and shields his eyes.
She furrows her eyebrows, "What??"
The lighting in Gallagher's Haven is quite low (Setite Clan Bane and all that), so Gallagher recoils and hisses when a big explosion of light and sound comes out from the TV.
He then calms down and mutters, "Nothing. Just a...hmmph, never mind."
Gallagher pauses his game and tosses his controller aside. He looks at his girlfriend get dressed. They only met quite recently. He smirks as he watches her slip into her brown crop top and black shorts.
She sees him and asks, "What?"
"Nothing. I just love watching you get dressed, that's all."
She rolls her eyes and smiles, "Ugh, that's so lame. If only you got undressed tonight, Ewan...is your silly video game more important than me?"
Gallagher snickers and shrugs at her valid question.
She takes a pillow and tosses it at him, "Hey! Hey, come on! That's not fair, Ewan! I like you, OK!"
"All's fair in love and war, babe. Just watching you get dressed is turning me on so bad, y'know what I mean?"
The Setite growls and licks his lips, "Round 2, babe?"
The girlfriend objects, "No. I have homework, lots and lots and lots of it. You think being a student at The American University in Dubai is a laughing matter?"
Gallagher sniffs and points out, "Yeah, well this ain't Dubai, babe. It's the next city over, heh."
She rolls her eyes and sighs, "Yes, Ewan, I know that. I'm only here for a semester. After that, I--well, I really haven't thought about the future much, if you want the truth."
"Yeah, you're young and beautiful, and, most importantly, you know your way around a cock. What more could a guy want, huh?"
She folds her arms and glares at her vampire boyfriend, "Personality, being on the same wavelength, hobbies that aren't just video games, and so on, Ewan. But I don't see any of that here."
Gallagher shrugs, "I ain't the romantic type, babe. Blame it on my...shitty upbringing if ya want, heh. But if you were to come by later, I could show you a good time."
The mortal does a wide gesture around the bland Haven of this Serpent, "Well, why don't you start by decorating this place, huh? Spice it up a bit, throw some ornaments and the like, y'know, make it more like a home. A proper one, not just some hole for you to sleep in, jerk off, play dumb video games, and do the other silly stuff. Get some cutesy things and all."
Gallagher's face contorts into a scowl, "That sounds gay. What do you think I am, some flamboyant fashion designer type? Jesus, Edith, get a fucking grip on things. It's my pad, paid for with my own fucking money. No chintzy bullshit needed...or wanted. And don't think of buying shit like that for me, alright?"
Edith exhales sharply and rolls her eyes a little, "OK, Ewan." She ruffles her hair and prepares to take her leave.
Gallagher's naked ass remains glued to the couch. He picks up his controller, un-pauses his game, and continues where he left off.
Edith turns around to see what he's doing. She raises a brow, "Um...seriously? You're not gonna walk me down, say bye, gimme a kiss, nothing?"
The Setite dryly replies, "I called you here for a quickie, not a date, Edith. Besides, I thought women didn't fuck with that chivalry stuff anymore. That's what's all the hipsters are saying."
"Whatever. Well, have a good rest of night, Ewan."
"Later, Edith."
"I hope we can spend more time together soon, alright? Like, real, quality time. I--I like you, Ewan, but you need to open up to me. I wanna get to--get to know you better."
Gallagher mumbles something under his breath. He keeps playing his game and ignores the woman as she makes her way out.
After a while, Gallagher gets up to take a quick shower. The cold water pelts his nude body, and he hisses as it wakes him up and stiffens him up.
He steps out, dries himself off, and wraps a towel around his waist. His phone is on his bedside table. He checks his messages and finds nothing of importance.
Being a highly paid (one might say overly paid) security consultant and all, Gallagher is always on top of things and is quite knowledgeable about identifying and neutralizing potential threats to his clients' wellbeing and safety.
He certainly has background experience as a Pinkerton goon, but that is not something he can put on his rsum, for obvious reasons.
He has 4 phones- 2 for work, 1 for emergencies, and 1 for personal use (barely used). He picks up 1 of his work phones and scrolls through it. He winces as the light from the screen hurts him a little.
"Jesus, why do they make these fucking things so bright?! Grrrr."
With no new messages, texts, or missed calls, Gallagher tosses his work phone aside, rubs his hands together, and goes back to his PS3. He throws himself on the couch, picks up the controller, and goes back to his game.
As the game goes on, he hears a knock on the door.
Gallagher looks away from the TV screen, blinks rapidly, and calls out, "IT'S OPEN!"
Seth pushes the door open. He's dressed in a brown suit with a yellow shirt. He's wearing yellow-tinted shades. He holds his trademark magical, emerald-eyed snake head cane in his hands.
"Oh, hey! Glad you could make it, Seth! C'mon in, buddy!" He motions for his fellow Setite to come and sit down.
Edwin, Seth's Ghoul, follows his master inside. His head is lowered, and he's dressed in a plain windbreaker and jeans. A pair of size-12 Crocs is on his feet.
The High Priest drags his feet along the carpeted flooring. He twirls his snake head cane, strokes the emerald eyes, and looks around Gallagher's Haven.
Gallagher, with his dead eyes still glued to the telly, inquires, "Like what you see?"
Seth plainly responds, "You've done well for yourself, Ewan."
Edwin merely nods his head and stands in the corner like the good and devout Ghoul that he is. He has an uneasy look on his face, but that's somewhat concealed by the lack of lighting and the fact that Gallagher is looking at the screen.
Gallagher makes a brash gesture, "C'mon, c'mon, sit down. Sit down. You too, chocolate milk! I don't like it when people stand around, looking all awkward and shit."
Edwin stifles a sigh and sits next to his Domitor. Seth leans his head back, removes his glasses, and looks up at the ceiling.
After a few seconds, Seth remarks, "You're quite away from the city center, aren't you?"
"Yeah, sure. What of it?" Gallagher's strong fingers mash the buttons with such intensity, Edwin can't help but wince and avert his eyes.
The High Priest is unfazed by Gallagher's apparent rage. He continues, "So, how things been, old friend? Holding the fort on your end? All good?"
"It's better than good. It's fuckin' great, man!
Seth strokes the emerald eyes of his magical cane and ponders on something for a moment. Eventually, he asks, "Was somebody here before us? I...smell something. Sweet, feminine...mortal? Are you seeing someone new? So soon already?"
Gallagher scoffs and mocks, "Oh, fuck off. My previous catch was a nuisance. I lost control and hit her. She died soon after. Boohoo, waa-waa. Hrmf, whatever. This chick's also a mortal, yeah, but she, oof, she knows her way around a sausage, lemme tell ya that much, haha!"
Seth's eyebrows shoot up, but he doesn't react much. Edwin frowns at his Ewan's crude and loutish words.
The Ghoul shakes his head and sighs a little louder than expected. Saying anything could incur Ewan's wrath, which is what nobody wants.
Gallagher picks up on this and barks out a laugh, "Hey, Edwin! You got an opinion, you keep it stuck in your piehole. Alright?"
Edwin simply glares balefully at the ex-Sheriff and looks away. Seth interjects, "Don't worry, Gallagher. Edwin knows his place. Isn't that right, Edwin?"
The Ghoul understands what his master is hinting at. He begrudgingly apologizes, "I am sorry, Mr. Gallagher. How you choose to conduct your own affairs is your own business, not mine. Please forgive me for my insubordination. It was...not my intention." The last part drips with insincerity.
Gallagher scoffs, "Whatever. So, anyway, you both had a reason for dropping by, yeah?"
Seth folds 1 leg over the other and nods, "Yes. When we last spoke, you seemed almost...envious about John's cordial relationship with his Childe, Svetlana. Should we talk more about that?"
Gallagher pushes the controller's analogue sticks as fast as possible. The TV screen blips and beeps as the character shoots faster and faster and moves around with great speed.
"Maybe. Why?"
The Typhonist High Priest shrugs, "I think there's more to it than that."
"Hm. Like?"
"You're jealous, Ewan. Jealous that your relationship with your own Sire soured when you were told of your true nature, not as a Brujah as you were led to believe, but as a Follower of Set."
Gallagher grunts and snarls and digs his thumb deep into the D-Pad.
Seth goes on, "You were bitter and angry about that fact, and you lashed out- almost immediately. It was your own way of processing being deceived and...misled."
"Hrgfh. Yeah, I guess. I just wish things didn't end like that between me and my fucking Sire. But in the end, I fucking pummeled that motherfucker into a goddamn Torpor from which he'll NEVER EVER wake up. If he does, then so help me, I'll make sure to drag him out to the great BBQ in the sky and leave him there to get fucking cooked."
Seth nods, "I understand. On some level, you could say I...sympathize with you. It wasn't easy. But that's all in the past now. And look at you, look at how far you've come since then, hmm? You've come up in our secret world while others have fallen by the wayside. And there are many more greater things in store for you, my friend."
Gallagher pauses his game and lets out a long, drawn out sigh, "Hmmmmm, yeah. I'm looking forward to whatever these 'greater things' are, man. You've been good to me. Real good."
He stops for a moment and looks down at his carpeted floor, "Yeah, I am a bit jealous of the way that half-Mexican and that Soviet chick get along with each other. When I was still a Fledgling, that's how I thought it was gonna be with me and my Sire, but it just...didn't turn out that way."
He grunts and adds, "Not that I'm surprised. I mean, the guy was a Setite. He's just as rotten and full of shit as the rest of us."
Seth dismissively waves his hands, "Ah, come now, Gallagher. They might call us the Clan of Lies, but that's only because there's no such thing as an objective truth or a complete lie. Truths are merely interpretations, VERY subjective ones. Our minds are not perfect, and we are not perfect either. There is no such thing as a pure form of reality or a pure form of anything else, as you are well aware."
"Hmm, sure, whatever. That makes sense, I guess."
"But we're also called the Clan of Faith. I personally find that...interesting."
"Faith? Yep, sure. Not that I'm not into most of that, but Typhon is different, right?"
"Of course, Typhon is different. Apep the Serpent guides us, watches over us on these nights, and shows us the way, the path that we are to walk on. And it is our duty to obey and do as we are commanded, no questions asked. Why overcomplicate things?"
"Oh, yeah. I get that. Yeah. Totally. I've been doing those mindfulness techniques you taught me. Yeah, I uh...guess I feel a little lighter, a little quicker on my feet. Like there's some extra energy inside me, y'know what I mean?"
Seth simply nods, "I do. So, this envy, do you still feel it whenever you come across Svetlana or her Sire?"
Gallagher shrugs, "I can't help it, man. I--I just wish it were like that. Now, I'm not asking to be coddled like some sissy faggot pussy, but I wouldn't have minded that guidance and help, and y'know...HIM NOT FUCKING LYING TO ME ABOUT THE CLAN I WAS EMBRACED INTO!"
Edwin flinches and tries to make himself as small as possible, while his master remains as still and as calm as can be.
Seth blandly says, "I'm sorry, Ewan. It's done and over with now. But think of it this way: Typhon had a great plan for you. A plan beyond the Pinkertons, a plan beyond America. Everything that happened to you, for better or worse, was a part of that. You should consider yourself honored, not jealous."
Gallagher sniffs and rubs his nose, "Sure, yeah. I'm honored. I--I guess that's 1 way of looking at things. Um...silver linings and clouds and shit like that, huh?"
"Something like that, yes."
Gallagher picks up his controller and goes back to gaming. A few seconds later, a bright explosion on the screen causes the 2 Setites to hiss and shield their eyes from the sheer intensity of the bright lights and loud sounds.
Even Edwin winces, but only slightly.
Seth grunts and groans, "Ugh, Ewan. A little warning and a heads-up would be appreciated. That was like staring into the sun. What--what even is this?"
Gallagher blinks a few times and answers, "It's the fucking PlayStation 3, man! PS3! Bought this baby with my own hard-earned money, heh heh!"
Seth sighs, "Hmm, yes, PS3. I heard they were coming out with a new one."
Gallagher's hands are already back on the controller. He pushes buttons as fast as his fingers can go, "Oh, really? I should check that out."
Seth suddenly remembers something. He leans to the side and whispers something into Edwin's ear. Gallagher clears his throat, "Something the matter?"
Seth answers, "Yes. I was just reminding my Ghoul about something he needs to take care of on my behalf."
Gallagher leans back and perches an eyebrow, "Oh? Like?"
"I have distant relatives in the town I was born in- Plaintry. There are these 2 kids, Avery and Alfred. I make it a point to send them gifts every year. As far as they're concerned, I'm some distant uncle or something. Their family shares our last name- Steale."
"Huh, ain't that something. Hey, wait, Plaintry? Shit, man, that town's been in the news lately!"
Seth sighs deeply, "Yes, Gallagher. I've seen the video of those 2 women arguing with each other. Edwin showed it to me. Oh, how good ol' Plaintry has fallen...hmm, what a shame."
He adjusts his collar and continues, "Were it not for my Embrace, I would have been running that place. For all my mortal life, I was trained and groomed to take on the mantle of political leadership and authority- an honored and noble calling. It's...sad." His tone does contain some nostalgia, but it is mixed with regret and longing.
Gallagher goes to grab his personal phone. He pulls up the aforementioned video. His screen's brightness is a bit low, but the audio is clear enough. The video, titled: "Heated Small-Town Argument" has amassed about 9 million views on YouTube.
It shows 2 women, a redhead in her early-30s and a brunette in her 20s, trading fiery words with each other.
The beet-faced redhead angrily screams out: "At least I didn't have fucking con-artists for parents who lavished their little princess with all the money in...in the world, AND, AND, AND, didn't have to beg for a job every other week just to keep a roof over her head!"
Seth shakes his head and groans.
Gallagher forwards the video and narrows his eyes as the brunette declares: "Alright, alright, you want a fucking story? How about this? This bitch, this ungrateful, lowlife BITCH believes that vampires bite her at night and take her blood! Can YOU believe that?! HUH?! This supposedly grown-ass woman actually thinks that!"
This currently viral video goes on for a while longer, but Gallagher stops it there. He whistles and remarks, "That shit's a Masquerade breach, heh. Hope whoever's in that town deals with it ASAP."
Seth dryly agrees, "Hmm, indeed. But, that redhead...I can't help but feel she'll be a good fit for our Clan. She's certainly got the...energy and, dare I say, fire in her to make her a fine, albeit unruly, Follower of Set."
(Too late, heh. The redhead in question has already been Embraced into the Tremere Clan).
Gallagher furrows his brow, "Really? Do us Vipers have literally no standards at all? She seems like a crazy, hysterical, rabid, rabble-rousing bitch. Best thing to do is drain her dry."
"Hmm, I suppose that's also a valid choice, Ewan. Anyway, that is...or was the town I was born and raised in. I would've been the patriarch of a political dynasty had I not met with Rafael. Ah, the choices we make, the roads we take, the paths we go down. Who could've known the little decisions that I made in my mortal life would lead me to the Snake Clan, hmm?"
Gallagher sniffs, "Yeah, well, at least Rafael De La Cruz, weird name, was there for you. At least you knew what you were from the onset."
"Hmm, not everything was easy for me, Gallagher. Rafael was a cruel and horrible man; he was even more manipulative than usual. He tested me...or more precisely, my faith in Typhon, by putting me through various trials and tribulations."
Gallagher smirks, "Oh, yeah? Like what??"
"I don't wish to discuss it. But let's just say that it hurt- a lot."
Gallagher blows a raspberry, "Pfft, fine, fine. We're not each other's therapists anyways."
Seth scoffs, "The 'therapy' offered by the world is useless. Just another pointless fixture of modernity, like the very concepts of 'civilization', 'democracy', 'Humanity', and 'liberty'. I prefer to speak with my mind and soul and seek enlightenment and wisdom directly from Apep. Everything else is just a pointless diversion."
Gallagher wags his finger in agreement, "I hear ya. Still, do you wonder?"
"Wonder what?"
"What it would be like if we were to return back to the States? I guess I'm feeling a bit nostalgic for good ol' Pennsylvania, haha!"
Seth shakes his head and responds, "No. We're practically kings here in the UAE. Why would either of us want to go back to America? Here, our money is greater than it'll ever be. As is our power."
"Mm-hmm, I guess. Yeah, you've got a point, though. All these fucking towelheads and sand monkeys worship us like--like gods, man! They're all so desperate and hungry for a little taste of what we've got on offer that they'll do anything for us, even die and--and kill for us. And they're so gullible and stupid, they don't even realize it, hahaha!"
Gallagher is quite giddy with excitement, it would seem.
Seth smiles and concurs, "Indeed. Back in America, we'd have to get...jobs. And be forced to interact with regular people." Seth hisses when he says the word "jobs" and "people".
Gallagher guffaws, "Hah, yep! You'd probably be the manager of some shitty paper company and I'd--I'd, shit, I'd probably get into promoting small-time wrestling matches and shit. That's how my Unlife would go down! Probably, haha!"
"That's how it would've been, yes. But, no, I don't see the appeal. Here in Al-Kushraf, we have power and wealth beyond one's wildest imaginations. I have my own Herd in the compound and those...people hang on to every word I say, every command I give, everything I say."
He continues, "Back in America, I'd have to struggle for what little scraps that go around, but here? Here, I have everything at my feet and a whole lot more coming my way."
Gallagher seems impressed, "Wow. The whole world, huh? All that could ever be and then some more, huh? Sign me the fuck up. Yeah, we might be from the US of A, but this is where uh...Typhon has placed us now, right?"
"Oh, yes. And more, much, much more. I have the resources, the knowledge, the connections, and the power to do whatever I want, whenever I want. Together, we can shape Kindred Society as we see fit, Ewan. Imagine--Imagine the possibilities!"
The ex-Sheriff nods his head, "Yeah, yeah! That's right, man! But, how?"
Seth smirks in his usual smug way and states, "All in due time, old friend. All in due time. Speaking of, our campaign against the SI has hit a few bumps in the road as of late..."
Gallagher continues gaming, his thumbs maniacally twiddling the analogue sticks, "Mm-hmm, yeah. So I've heard. Things haven't been going according to plan for us, huh? Those fucking Inquisitors have been a pain in the ass from the get-go."
"Yes, they certainly have. Any news from your circles?"
"Yep, all those Sheikhs and their really hot daughters want extra protection, heh heh. Of course, I was expecting more calls and shit, but things have been quiet. So far."
He squeezes the left trigger and explains, "The Emirati authorities have done a great job of keeping things covered up and all. They simply wave their hands and say it was just a fire that broke out in a parking lot last night. And people, fucking idiots that they are, swallow that shit whole and buy it."
"Well, it is to their benefit, wouldn't you say?"
"Yeah! Absolutely! It's the Masquerade we're talking about here, Seth! The most sacred and most important of the Camarilla's Traditions, even the other Sects understand the basic need to keep our existence a secret from the mouth-breathers."
Seth softly chuckles, "You're right, as always, Ewan. But, still, we can't let this slide. Our enemy is still too strong. So far, the Banu Haqim and the Malkavians have made steady progress against the SI, but not nearly as enough as I'd like." There's some frustration in his voice.
"Yeah, well, the clowns who are fighting these assholes are kinda...crazy and a bunch of other stuff that sounds gay as hell, but yeah. My point is, if you want results, then you gotta get everyone else on board."
"Hmm, easier said than done. Sometimes I feel like the Primogen Council is made up of teenagers, always arguing and bickering with each other about this or that. It's...it's honestly too much, keeping them in line and making sure they don't go for each other's necks and make a mess of things. Hmph."
The High Priest goes on, feeling a little annoyed, "At least the Blade of Haqim have killed a lot of our enemies. Even if their intentions are vastly different from our own, less SI is always a good thing to have."
"Yeah, maybe. Still, I don't like the idea of THOSE assholes running rampant."
"That is a fact, yes."
"Hrmph. But I suppose you're right. Just keep those Blade crazies on a tight leash, OK? I don't want this to bite us in the ass later on. I don't mind the Malks and the others, but those fuckin' Assamites just can't be trusted, alright? They're too uptight and all...kinda crazy, if you ask me."
Seth shakes his head, "No, you're not entirely wrong. Their code of honor is their weakness, the same can be said for their teachings. It will, I'm sure of it, be their undoing. In the meantime, however, we use them to get rid of a common foe. Many of them will be destroyed along the way, but that only works to our benefit. Once this all blows over, we'll figure out what to do with the rest."
There's quite an ominous tone in Seth's voice.
Gallagher growls in approval, "Mm-hmm, yeah. I'm down with that. Still, you gimme the word and I'll be ready to rip some SI to fucking shreds!" There's a disturbing eagerness and glee that laces his words.
Seth faintly smiles, "I appreciate that, Ewan. We need to have a bit of a discussion on the matter, though. A few more details need to be ironed out. In the meantime, keep your eyes and ears peeled and enjoy your...game or whatever it's called."
Before Seth leaves, he leans forward and queries, "Any news on the Caitiff racecar driver, N0S4A2. I hear they're still in town, taking part in street races and such."
Gallagher snarls and almost breaks his controller, "AAAARGH. Fuck that fucking Freestyler! If I ever see that motherfucker again, I'm gonna body them and feed them their own ashes! Bastard fucking hit me...in Elysium of all places! Gah!"
Seth raises a brow, "Hm, yes, that was quite an unfortunate event. At least our Caitiff problem was solved when the Marjan Tower came down and destroyed most of them. I've been told that the rest have fled to Abu Dhabi."
Gallagher scoffs and grunts, "Tch, good luck getting in. They're a disgrace to our kind, if you ask me."
"Well, maybe, maybe not. Still, your buddy--"
Gallagher glowers at his fellow Viper with gritted teeth.
Seth chuckles and corrects himself, "N0S4A2 is still out there. They still haven't left this Domain after what had happened. What does that tell you about them?"
Ewan rolls a shoulder, "That they're either stupid, suicidal, or both. Or maybe they're just not afraid of anything at all. Must be a fuckin' Brujah under that helmet. Hmph."
Seth frowns a little, "Perhaps. Or there very well could be a fellow Setite under their helmet. Anything is possible these nights. I know everyone's focused on the SI threat, but I'd like to know more about this N0S4A2, if you will."
"I'll look into it, Seth. No promises, but you know how I do things. It ain't the demure ballerina way."
Seth states, "Oh, I'd have it no other way, Gallagher."
The Typhonist High Priest gets up, dusts some nonexistent dirt off his trousers, and makes his way out of Gallagher's Haven. Edwin follows closely behind his master, head lowered and lips closed.
Once at the door, Seth turns around and asks, "Gallagher, I have a question. It's about the Assamite, Svetlana."
Gallagher groans and mashes the pause button on his controller. He trudges over to Seth and wordlessly motions for him to ask away.
Seth inquires, "Svetlana, she's a...woman, right?"
"The fuck's that supposed to mean?"
Seth prods, "I mean, she's a biological woman, correct?"
Gallagher exclaims, "Ah! OK, OK, I get it, I get it. Yeah, after what happened with Syl--"
Seth's expression turns foul and he lifts a stern finger, "Don't even say that name. Just...don't."
"Eh, I guess so, yeah. So, you're serious about that Russian chick, huh? You and her gonna be an item in the next couple of nights? Anyway, lemme tell ya this: if somebody tried THAT kinda shit with me, I'd fuckin' fold 'em!" He cracks his knuckles to reinforce his point.
There's a glimmer in Seth's serpentine eyes, "I hope so, yes."
Gallagher snickers and teases, "Seth and Svetlana sitting in a tree K-I-S-S-I-N-G."
Edwin giggles but covers his mouth when he sees the stern glare coming from the amber eyes of his Domitor. Seth rolls his eyes and shakes his head, "Yes, yes, I uh...hope that's the case. It's been a while, and I have certain desires that I would like to explore a bit more."
Gallagher rubs his hands together, "Wow, you really have it down bad for that Slavic bimbo, huh? But why her? I still don't get it, I mean you gave me vague answers and shit, but WHY HER?"
Seth shrugs and turns his head aside, "I have a multitude of reasons for pursuing her. But she's so fascinating, vibrant, and beautiful. She's a woman who looks like she needs guidance and help...guidance and help that I alone am in a place to provide. Guidance and help that not even the world or that Sire of hers could ever offer."
Bullshit.
Gallagher snort-chuckles, "Haha! OK, knock yourself out, buddy. And if she turns you down, what then? You gonna MAKE her your woman?"
Seth is unfazed by the disturbing implication. He simply shrugs, "I have my ways. I suppose a Blood Bond is feasible, but I wouldn't jump at it immediately. But I feel drawn to her. She's different from the rest of her Clan. For an Assamite, she's...unique, different. A breath of fresh air, if you will. There's something in her; I can feel it."
Gallagher rolls a shoulder and dryly nods, "Mm-hmm. Yeah, butterflies in the stomach and all that lovey-dovey shit. Me, personally? I'm just looking for a good suck and tug, y'know what I mean? No strings attached, nothing. No gross feelings involved. No cooties, ugh, cooties. Yuck."
Seth chuckles, "Cooties? Ewan, we're not 8 anymore." 
Gallagher snorts, "Oh, come on! You know what I mean, all those womanly...feelings and such. Girly vibes, ew. It's like, y'know, the grossest shit ever, ugh." He shudders and grimaces at whatever he's worked himself up into being "grossed out" about.
The High Priest lets out a long sigh, "Hmm, well, that's something for you to contend with in your own time."
Gallagher leans against the doorway and asks, "So, where you off to now? Need a tag-along?"
"Like I said, the Primogen Council is meeting to discuss our progress against the SI. I also wanna know what the hell went wrong last night and hope that it doesn't happen again. And, well, Svetlana's gonna be there." There's a glint of obsessive desire in Seth's eyes when mentioning her name.
Gallagher smirks and raises his chin, "Uh-huh. Yeah, all business, huh? Well, go on, ya fucking stud. Heh."
Seth bows his head, twirls his snake cane in his hands, and walks off with Edwin following in tow. As soon as he's out onto the hallway, he grimaces and winces at how well-lit it is.
It's quite long and narrow and bright, fluorescent lights beam down on everyone who passes through. Seth furrows his eyebrows in annoyance as the harsh lights wash out his vision.
Edwin licks his lips and puts his hand around his master's back, "Easy, sir. Easy."
The High Priest stifles a groan of annoyance and struggles to maintain his composure. The lights are doing their job, causing his skin to burn (sort of) and his pupils to shrink in order to protect them from the light.
He swallows hard, clears his throat, and makes a beeline for the elevator at the end of the hallway. Like a maniac, he repeatedly taps the down button, but the elevator is still stuck all the way up at the 27th floor.
The Setite angrily groans and keeps mashing his thumb against the button, like that's gonna make it come down faster. Eventually, the elevator makes a ping and dings at the 18th floor. The doors slide open, and Seth makes a mad dash to get inside before it closes.
Edwin meekly walks in and sees a gaggle of women all wearing skimpy dresses and jewelry. They're all talking amongst themselves and not paying any attention to the vampire High Priest and his Ghoul.
The Setite just grabs onto the railings and stands as still as he possibly can, hoping that they don't realize who he is.
With his enhanced vamp senses, Seth hears some chick whispering about the snake head cane he's holding. He plainly smirks and tries to suppress the pain that's being rained down on him by the elevator's bright lights.
The elevator finally gets to the 6th floor, and Seth almost dives out, almost falls over, but he's able to stay upright somehow. He clenches his jaw and maintains his composure as a few kids squeeze in and scoot past him. He winces, and Edwin shoots him a worried glance.
The elevator goes down 1 agonizing floor at a time. Each time, the lights get brighter and the pain Seth feels gets worse. Once at the ground floor, he hurries past everyone and makes his way to the comfort of low lighting (or no lighting) and the dull and blandly decorated lobby area that leads outside.
He clears his throat and sighs in relief as his car comes into sight. As he steps inside, Edwin takes his place at the driver's seat, just as he's supposed to.
Seth sighs in relief and spreads his legs in the backseat. He blinks a few times and rolls his shoulders.
His Ghoul inquires, "Is everything alright, sir? You seem to be in pain." He keeps his eyes on the road ahead, not wanting to bother or aggravate his Domitor any further, but he...needs something from him.
Seth forces deep, steady breaths, "Yes, yes, I am fine, Edwin. Thank you. God, I don't know how these...people manage. All that light, all the time. It's--it's...tormenting. Grrrrgh." The Typhonist keeps rubbing his eyes and squeezing them tight.
Edwin keeps his hands on the steering wheel and gulps deeply. He's not sure if he should ask, but he needs...it. At a stop signal, he looks at the rearview mirror and sees his master's eyes turning into snakelike slits- not an unusual sight.
"Uh...sir, I--I uh...need blood. I need some. It is time for, sir."
The Typhonist's face scrunches in confusion, "What? You...you should have told me this sooner, Edwin."
Edwin nervously nods, "For that, I profusely apologize, sir. It was my mistake. There has been a lot on my mind, and you were quite busy with more pressing matters. I thought it wise to give you the space that you needed, but, as you can see, I...need my 'dose', sir." The shakiness and desperation in his voice is quite evident.
"Oh? I see. Alright then, Edwin. But don't make this a habit, hmm? Pull over near this corner and make it quick." Seth already begins to roll up his sleeve and to expose his vein. He can hear his Ghoul's heartbeat quicken with anticipation.
"I won't, sir. Th--Thank you. And may Typhon continue to bless and--and favor you, sir." He speeds up a bit and pulls over, then stops.
Edwin rolls up the windows and parks under a flickering streetlight. Seth groans and frowns at how the light seems to be causing his skin to itch. He twists his mouth and rubs his fingers against his cheeks.
Edwin gulps and goes in for a drink of his master's Blood, but Seth puts his hand around the back of his neck and stops him.
The Ghoul gasps and his jaw is agape.
Seth slits his wrist with his claw but holds it away from Edwin's mouth, "Next time, Edwin, tell me these things sooner. I can't read your mind, OK?"
Edwin obsequiously lowers his head and says, "I am so sorry, sir. It shan't happen again. As Typhon is our witness, I shall be more diligent and obedient."
The Setite lowers his hand and gives Edwin access to his wrist. The Ghoul inhales the smell of his master's blood, feeling the euphoria that's already beginning to flow through him.
His lips are against the flow in no time, his mouth sucking away at the Vitae as it drips onto his tongue and down his throat. Edwin closes his eyes and feels the power course through his mortal body.
Seth indifferently stares at the city passing by in a blur- cars, bikes, buses, buildings, streets, neon signs- all of it whizzing by like it was happening in slow-motion.
Once the Ghoul has done taking yet another bite of the eternal, he withdraws and bows his head in thankfulness. He holds his master's wrist to his forehead and mutters, "Praise be unto Typhon, and blessed be the High Priest of Apep."
Seth cracks a small smile, "Yes, yes. That was very good and thoughtful of you, Edwin. And I suppose I should be grateful for all you've done for me, hmm?"
"..."
"I am, Edwin. Continue to serve me and I promise you that you shall never have cause to regret it. Now, there's something I'm gonna need you to take care of. Anyway, let's get moving first."
Edwin nods eagerly, starts the car up, and joins the flow of traffic on the street. Seth takes in the sights and sounds of this particular neighborhood, seeing what he can and noting how many other Vipers he can feel around here.
At another stop, Seth reaches into his back pocket and pulls out a credit card. He wedges it between his index and middle fingers and hands it to his Ghoul, "I'm gonna need you to go out and buy gifts for Avery and Alfred. You know, the usual. Just like last time. I can't set foot into those damn toy stores- too much light."
Edwin gingerly takes the credit card and puts it into his own wallet, "Of course, sir. Any requirements in particular?"
Seth rubs his eyes a little and rolls his head, "No, whatever's trending. Barbie, Lego, I dunno. Money's no object now that I've recently come into more than I could have ever dreamed of. Take care of the packaging and shipping, too. Whatever's fast, remember the town's name: P-L-A-I-N-T-R-Y."
He further adds, "Make sure it's goes to an Edgar Steale. Again, just like last year."
Edwin nods and turns down another road. After some driving, Seth stares out the window, "Alfred's the younger one. Avery's the older one. Get something appropriate for them, Edwin."
The Ghoul eases his foot off the accelerator and promises, "I shall do my best, sir."
Seth blankly stares out the window and faintly smiles. Is this a small moment of Humanity for an otherwise sociopathic High Priest? Perhaps so. Perhaps so.
The Typhonist High Priest sniffs and licks his lips, "Hmm, yeah, I can't wait to see Svetlana. It's been a while, and I hope she's doing OK. Not too many err...scratches or anything."
Edwin keeps his eyes glued on the roads ahead. It's a fairly quiet place, narrow and devoid of houses. There are mostly small businesses and shops- cheap fast-food joints, tiny grocery stores, and the like.
The Ghoul squeezes the steering wheel a little and takes a sharp left. He cranes his neck and stops near the footpath.
Seth narrows his eyes and purses his lips, "Something the matter?"
"Where are we supposed to meet, sir?"
Seth sighs, "These Nosferatu, always picking the most obtuse and ridiculous places to meet. No matter. This doesn't look like the correct spot, hmm." He leans over and rolls down his right-side window a little.
Trees cover the footpath, their leaves and winding branches obscuring some of the foot traffic on the street and sidewalk. The lights from the streetlamps don't really do a good job of penetrating the thick foliage.
Back at Gallagher's Haven...
He's still gaming when a call comes through on his work phone. Frustrated, he groans and snatches it up.
"I'm trying to be a winner here, man!"
The voice on the other end of the line is annoyed, but she's used to the gruffness of this man by now. Her accent is neutral, and her voice is calm and professional, "Hello, Mr. Gallagher."
He snaps back, "What? Oh, it's you. Yeah, what's up?"
She goes on to tell him that there are some bigtime movers and shakers who are concerned about recent occurrences in the city and wish to meet with a highly trained and professional security consultant to discuss worst-case scenarios, evac routes, and other security details.
Gallagher yawns and holds back a groan, "It was supposed to be my night off. Just me and my PS3. Yeah, whatever. Let 'em know I'll be there soon. And turn those fuckin' lights down when I get there, I don't need to be blasted by 'em when I walk in. Good. Bye."
He hangs up, goes to the bathroom to tidy up and refresh, then he starts to head over wherever. He slips into a v-neck shirt, matching suit and pant set, and black lace-up shoes.
When he gets into his car, he rolls up the windows and grunts. The roads are even more congested than usual tonight. There are people everywhere- crowds, lines, and people trying to find parking spaces and shit.
On his way to where he's going, he honks like a maniac, curses nearly everyone he comes across, and has that wild, unhinged look in his dead eyes. Eventually, he makes it. He checks his watch, sighs, and walks to the glass doors.
Back to Seth...
He and his Ghoul have found the intended meeting spot after nearly 30 minutes of driving and circles and eventually stopping and just asking for directions.
Edwin rolls up to a decommissioned power plant, or at least what's left of it. Ivy, vines, and other plants cover its broken beige walls, but its smokestacks remain and tower over the street, like broken tombstones to an abandoned cemetery.
There's a black SUV, a fancy Ferrari, and a few bikes parked at the front entrance of the compound. There are tons of detritus and stray cats running around, picking through the trash that's scattered about, as well as a few scurrying rats.
Seth puts his snake cane against his shoulder and takes a moment to study the place.
What was once a wide power plant is now a victim of urban decay. Moss covers the building's walls, and its roof is heavily overgrown with weeds, shrubbery, and all kinds of plants. It's like an urban forest.
There are broken windows and scattered graffiti, but no sign of any people or movement.
Seth blithely opines, "Well, Tommy sure does know how to pick 'em. C'mon, Edwin."
Edwin turns off the ignition and follows his Domitor along the broken walkway and overgrown pavement that leads to the power plant's entrance. There are rusted shutters, a few graffiti tags, and some cracked glass panels.
Seth pokes around at some of the rusted metal panels with his snake cane and shrugs, "Hmm, so far so good, I guess." He squints his eyes to look into the compound's interior, but it's too dark to see much of anything.
His Ghoul opens 1 of the rusted metal doors and pushes it all the way to the side, letting his master waltz in. Edwin feels the rust get all over his hands. He grimaces uncomfortably and wipes it onto his pants.
Seth softly grumbles and twists his mouth, "It's not gonna kill you, Edwin. It's just...dirt."
Edwin lowers his head and avoids eye contact, "It just felt so...sticky and uncomfortable on my hands, sir."
"Hmm." Seth paces around this cavernous area, with cracked tile floors and broken cement walls, all stained with rainwater and other stuff. There are broken windows on all 4 sides. He cranes his neck and looks at the ceiling, wondering something or the other to himself.
He makes a show of twirling his cane and steps closer to his Ghoul. Edwin nervously gulps and meets his master's serpentine gaze with apprehension.
Seth plainly states, "Remember that I will never ask you to do anything that I wouldnt do myself. You...understand that, yes?"
Edwin has a distant and blank stare on his face. He doesn't immediately respond.
"EDWIN!"
The Ghoul's body jerks and he stammers, "S--Sir?"
"Did you even hear what I told you just now?"
Edwin quickly nods, "Y--yes, sir."
"So, what'd I say?"
The Ghoul starts to sweat profusely, "I--I...don't--"
Seth audibly sighs and disapprovingly shakes his head, "You've been acting strange lately. Why? Is something the matter with you? If it's of a spiritual nature, which it always is, you know that you can come to me, correct? And I will help guide you on the road that you need to take."
Edwin fidgets and taps his foot on the floor. He stammers and struggles to formulate a simple sentence. There's something unnatural (even more so) about his master's presence and it's only gotten worse these past few nights.
Seth places his cold hand on Edwin's tense shoulder, "Edwin. Whatever it is, either deal with it in your own time or come to me. Don't waste either of our time by sitting there, shivering, and doing nothing but looking like a fool. Yes?"
The Ghoul keeps nervously tapping his feet on the floor. He just can't get the words to come out, not yet.
Seth frowns and takes a step back, but his intense gaze remains as deep and penetrating as ever, "Is that understood?"
Edwin frantically nods his head and whispers, "Y--yes. Yes, sir."
"Good. Now, this is the kind of place a Nossie like Tommy would meet in, right?"
"I believe so, sir."
"Let's take a look around."
Muffled talking sounds can be heard coming from the lower levels of the power plant. Seth hears it and figures it must be where he's supposed to be, but he doesn't get too close. Yet.
He turns around and sees Edwin following close by, looking nervous and uncomfortable. Seth rolls a shoulder and tells him, "We're going to be alright, Edwin. It'll just be business as usual. I'm sure of it."
Edwin silently nods, but he's not sure if he believes it. Over the past few nights, he's seen his own Domitor do terrible things to his own flock back at the compound, even some who were completely devoted, and now, his Domitor is casually walking about, ready to do more such things to anyone else who dares to cross his path.
It's not like Seth is just killing out of boredom- no. He's doing so, rashly, but with a certain defined purpose. As of late, there's also been an underlying fury in his actions and words that Edwin hasn't ever seen before.
The High Priest twists his cane around and is hit with a draft of cold air. He doesn't shiver or shudder as a mortal usually would. It just feels like a mere tickle of his dead skin, if anything.
The 2 idly walk about and look at the various dials and knobs in the generator room. There's a skeleton near the center of it, wearing a worker's uniform. The uniform doesn't appear that old and the skeleton is in some kind of pose.
Seth curiously looks it over, wondering what happened to whoever this was. His attention is soon drawn to the generator itself. It looks like it's still operational somehow, and it seems to be pumping out energy. It hums and purrs softly, but it's caked in layers of dust and other nasties.
A few spider webs cover the ceiling, but Edwin brushes them aside with his bare hand. He curiously turns a few of the dials, but it makes no sense to him.
Seth shrugs and twirls his cane, then pats Edwin's shoulder. He points to a door that leads to a basement, but it's been boarded up, "Hm, hmm. Come on, let's try going this way."
He pries the boards off with his raw preternatural strength and starts making his way down the stairs. The railings are shaky, but the few lights overhead seem to be new.
The muffled sounds of voices come from below and they're a whole lot more audible now. It's still dark, but there's some light. Edwin quietly follows in tow, his hands clenched into fists.
At the bottom of the staircase, Seth is hit by a wave of putrid air. He doesn't react to it, but Edwin gags and has to put his hand over his nose and mouth.
The lights are old-looking, and the power plant's generators are big, old, and softly purring like huge cats. Seth hears the sounds of an argument in the distance and recognizes some of the voices.
Standing afar from the group are those 2 surly Setites- Joyce and Tristan. They're both dressed in formal wear and look a bit stiff. Joyce nods over to the approaching High Priest while Tristan approaches him.
He does a lazy thumb-back to the group and speaks in a muffled tone, "They're having a bit of a chin wag back there, Seth. Everyone's here. All the Primogens, those 2 Assamites--"
Seth's dead eyes light up, "Svetlana's here??"
"Yes, she's here, boss."
Without saying anything, Seth pushes past his 2 fellow Setites and makes a beeline for the group. Paul, the Toreador Harpy, is pacing about and taking long and shuddering drags from his strawberry-flavored vape pen. He's dressed in a casual blue suit and a white button-down shirt. A puffy rose is pinned to his lapel.
There's a tension in the air as he does this, and it's mostly coming from the 2 Assamites who are present- John and Svetlana. The former is arguing with Vizier Mohammed, who is dressed in a black thawb, while the latter is keeping her head hung low and hands clasped in front of her.
Seth quietly approaches and waits for his moment. The Nosferatu Primogen, Tommy, is the first to notice him, and he gives him a wee call out, his Scottish accent ever so grating and thick, "Oi, Sethie, boy! 'Mon here, ya bawbag! Been a wee while, eh?" he waves the High Priest over and lets out a garbled chuckle.
The Setite looks at the Nossie from head to toe and dryly says, "Thomas. How are things? I take it we're making progress in our campaign against the Second Inquisition?"
"Simmer doon, pal, simmer doon, awright? Naw be jumping into things without a wee warm up. I trust yous had no trouble finding this place, eh?"
Seth sighs faintly, "It's a bit off the beaten path, no wonder it's popular with you Crawlers then, hmm?"
Tommy adjusts his trademark mosaic-patterned porcelain mask and tugs on his suit jacket. He shakes his head and waltzes off. Absalom, the Malkavian Primogen, approaches the High Priest, intent guiding his every step.
The Elder Lunatic is dressed in a dark maroon-red thawb. His blue eyes are as cold and piercing as ever. Even Seth (!) feels so taken aback by the Elder's...everything, really. His penetrating stare, his deep and authoritative voice, his very presence. It's all so unnerving.
The Malk bows his head, "High Priest." His voice is as calm and measured as ever, and his eyes are as icy as can be.
Seth faintly smiles, "Absalom. How are things on your end. I know you haven't exactly been working with the Blade to get rid of the SI- you have your reasons- but how are things otherwise?"
Absalom goes on to tell the High Priest about he and his fellow Mockers have been fighting against the forces of the SI. Apparently, they've been waging more...psychological forms of...warfare, if one could call it that.
Using various amalgams of Malkavian Disciplines (Auspex, Obfuscate, Dementation, etc.), they've been subtly spreading fear, uncertainty, and doubt amongst the lower rungs of the Unit 8211 hierarchy. Simple redirections, deterring patrols through a certain region, and so on.
Absalom, for his part, is fairly measured in his explanation of his Clan's activities over the past few nights. He doesn't get over-excited or wildly gesticulate like...Mr. Bean.
Yeah, he's here, too. He's excitedly talking about how he fooled an entire plainclothes patrol unit into driving their vehicle into an open pit, resulting in a single fatality and numerous injuries.
The young Malk wildly gesticulates and makes all kinds of arm movements, while Absalom remains as still as a statue. Seth frowns at this, but he knows that such clowning is probably to be expected from Jesters.
At least they're doing their part.
Mark, the Ventrue Primogen, is awkwardly standing near a wall, his arms folded in front of him, looking out of place. He's dressed in a bulky fur coat, and his sunglasses are in place.
He greets Seth, but his demeanor is cold, and his tone is neutral (a bit forced, too), if not somewhat gruff. The Setite briefly looks him over. He's heard a lot about how Mr. Kincaid here has been taking a free ride in high-end mortal institutions, how he's been misusing the Dominate Discipline, and so on.
Regardless, Seth extends his cold hand and Mark takes it, forcing a tight smile, "Yo, Seth! Hey! 'Sup?"
"You tell me, Mr. Kincaid. I hope you've at least cleared some of the outstanding debts you owe."
The Blue Blood dismissively waves his hand, "Yeah, yeah. I did. Heh." The mischievous undertone in his voice clearly indicates that he did not, well not in the way expected.
It's likely that he just doubles down on Dominate, continuing to turn people's brains to mush just to get VIP access to those fancy casinos and clubs and shit.
"Mm. Good."
Seth proceeds to slowly walk over to the Toreador Primogen. Sebastian is dressed in a custom-made jade suit. His moccasins look imported and he's wearing no socks. His hair is gelled and tied into a fancy bun.
He stands casually and looks at his nails like they're the best thing in the world, not really bothered about anyone (or anything) around him.
"Seth. Nice fit. The brown and yellow really do bring out the color in those amber eyes of yours...the shades, though? Nah, I'd ditch those for some nice Guccis, but that's just me."
Seth purses his lips and stiffly nods, "Hmm, interesting. I'll keep that in mind, Mr. Gorsky."
He hears a slight chittering coming from 1 of the nearby generators. Seb continues preening himself and avoiding everyone else.
Lastly, there's Vizier Mohammed Khan. His charge, Ms. Kawasaki is nearby. She's got that permanent scowl on her face. She's wearing a simple leather jacket and black denims. She grits her teeth and holds tightly onto the handle of her tant, clearly itching for a fight.
The Vizier is busy arguing with John. The latter looks like he's about to lunge forward, but Vizier Mohammed extends his hands out in an almost placating gesture and shoots him a look, warning him to back off.
When Seth approaches, John backs off, grumbling under his breath.
Vizier Mohammed takes Seth's hands in both his hands and gives it a firm shake. He speaks in a strong and booming tone, "Ah, High Priest! Welcome, welcome! How are faring tonight?"
Seth smiles and plainly nods, "By Typhon's grace, I'm doing fine, Mr. Khan. How are you and how's your...charge keeping?"
"I fare well, as does Ms. Kawasaki. It is good that you came when you did, High Priest. This John is getting worse by the minute. He has a temper, and it needs to be controlled!"
The Assamite Primogen huffs and sharply turns his head.
Seth smiles and answers, "I'll talk to him. You just wait here."
With that, the Viper approaches John and simply asks, "So, how are things going, hmm? You're making quite the mess all over this city. Not that I'm complaining, of course. But isn't it getting a bit...out of hand? Ideally, you're supposed to get rid of the SI- discreetly, not start a war."
John's face scrunches in anger, "Yeah, no shit, man! What do you think we've been doing for the past couple of nights, huh? Last night was a mess. Reasons. We lost a few. Like I said numerous times before: there's not very many of us to do this, OK?!"
Getting frustrated, he continues, "So, I was trying to ask Mohammed over there, spineless asshole, if he'd be willing to allow the other Banu Haqim in this city to join us, but he--he--"
The speedy Assamite snarls and shouts at the Vizier, "--HE FUCKING REFUSES TO LET THEM JOIN US! We're of the same Clan, you asshole!"
Seth frowns and firmly stares at John, "Mr. Suarez, please. Calm down. I don't need you blowing a gasket on me here. Talk to me. You need money, weapons--"
John furiously claps back, his dead eyes burning with anger, "We need people, dammit! Not platitudes or toys or--or...cash, but...no, never mind."
Seth puts his hand on John's strained shoulder and looks into his eyes, "I know that look, John. It's desperation, isn't it? What is it, c'mon, tell me. I'm here to help."
John sighs deeply, "Since we're all out there, fighting those Israeli lunatics and all, we've had to take...a lotta time off our work. As it stands, we're already on precarious grounds and we need our jobs to keep a damn roof over our heads--"
Seth firmly says, "Get to the point."
"Svetlana's been turning down babysitting gigs. I've also been turning a few private Kenpo-teaching opportunities down. Real lucrative stuff, heh. The rest of us are doing the same, and it's putting us at risk. We don't wanna be thrown out into the mean streets of this city."
Seth sighs and looks around before responding, "I'm sorry to hear that, Mr. Suarez. Truly. I...wish I could help. I probably could, but it'd end up raising more eyebrows and that's not good for any of us. Especially right now. How's Svetlana doing, by the way?"
"She's uh...yeah, she's a bit shaken up, but she knows how to hold her own in a fight."
Seth doesn't say much else. He merely lifts his chin and approaches Svetlana with a stride of confidence. Overconfidence, perhaps.
She's standing aside, head lowered, and hands still clasped. She has an empty stare in her green eyes.
Seth approaches her, and she looks up at him, "Svetlana. How are you, hmm?" His tone changes from one of contempt to a warm and gentle tone.
Svetlana is taken aback and slightly stutters, "I...I am fine. How...how are you, Seth?" Her lips are slightly trembling.
Seth takes her hand and caresses it gently, "Oh, Svetlana, I'm good, good. I've been well and doing great things, great things indeed. How goes the fight against the SI? I hope they haven't uh...hurt you too much, hmm?"
Svetlana gingerly withdraws her hand and nods, "Is no issue. I know how to fight, and I am very strong and capable--"
She sounds on the verge of tears. Seth lightly lifts her chin, "Hey, hey, easy, easy there, Svetlana. I know how it is. Shh, shh."
The High Priest smiles and tries to calm her, "It's all going to be fine, you'll see. You've got those um...sharp and uh...fancy and pointy daggers of yours, right? Heh, I'm pretty sure no one's gonna...err...mess with you when you've got those."
He lowers his voice, "Anyway, enough about that. How have YOU been doing, Svetlana? Your Sire told me you've been having some money issues? I hope you know I could easily help you out with that--"
Svetlana frowns and tries to shuffle away, "I appreciate your kindness, Seth, but--"
Seth pulls her back and places his hands on her shoulders. He tries to reassure her, "It's no problem, Svetlana. I have enough money, lots of it in fact. I could easily pay your rent, bills, all that, or, if you'd prefer, I can give you some every night for however long you need it. If that's not enough, I can arrange for a good job or 2."
Svetlana faintly smiles and sniffs, sanguine tears rolling down her face, "No, Seth, but I don't want you to--"
"Shh, shh," Seth pulls her into a warm embrace, his hands caressing her back as he does so. His eyes turn into slits, and he feels his dead heart act up as he holds her close. She tries to wiggle out, but it's futile.
He ignores her struggling and goes on, "Shh, shh. Everything will be OK, I promise you that. As Typhon is my witness, I promise you that. I know that you're struggling with all this and I...I'm willing to help you."
Svetlana groans and grunts, "Pl--Please, Seth. Let go of me. No--no touch like that! Errrrgh!"
Seth immediately lets go, but not before stroking her cheek with his trembling hand. Svetlana is taken aback, and she recoils in shock. Her eyes are wide and her expression is...confused.
Seth is unfazed by this, "I just wanna help you, Svetlana. Be there for you, comfort you, protect you, guide you, all that stuff. I mean you no harm. None whatsoever." He is really desperate in his attempts to make her understand his point of view.
Svetlana warily narrows her eyes, "Why? Why so much kindness to me only? You already showed us kindness by allowing us in city. You also bought for me and John new phone, but, why?"
Seth gulps and answers, "Because you're 1 of us, Svetlana. You're a Kindred, just like I am."
"That--that is not the reason..."
Seth tightly smiles, "You're right, that isn't the only reason. Truth is, I've been wanting to get close to you, Svetlana. I'm fascinated by you, Ms. Bobrov. Ever since you and the rest of the Assamites showed up that night. I...I felt something when our eyes first met. I can't explain it."
Woah!
Svetlana gasps and her jaw goes agape. She looks confused, scared, and doubtful at the same time.
Seth licks his lips and adds, "I like you, Svetlana. I--I was debating whether I should tell you or not, but I just couldn't go on like this. You fascinate me. I wanna know what makes you tick. I wanna know what your--your hopes and dreams and--and ambitions are."
With a sparkle in his eyes, he goes on to tell her, "It's not like I wanna do anything...untoward. You're...special. Delicate, even. I just wanna get to know you more, y'know, take this 1 step at a time. We can go as slow as you want..."
Svetlana is at a complete and total loss for words. She just stands there, slack-jawed and dumbfounded by the High Priest's admission.
Seth continues, "Anyway, like I said, I've got lots of money. I'm willing to do what it takes to make things better for you. Only you. All you have to do is...ask and you shall receive. Knock and I'll be there, anytime, to fling open that door and let you in. OK?"
The Assamite Neonate takes a step back, unsure of what to say or how to respond. She just gives Seth a blank look.
"You can ask for help or support whenever you want, Svetlana. If you really need money, I could--"
Svetlana holds up her hand and stammers, "Nyet. Is--is no problem. I--thank you, Seth. You are kind man. You are also, I think, nice man. But I do not know if I--I am ready for what you are asking. It would be better, I think, to be only...friendly with each other, no?"
The High Priest forces a confident smile on his face. He simply answers, "Take your time, Svetlana. I'm not in a rush, neither are you. I'm sorry if I came on a little forceful back there, but I just needed to make you understand."
"Understand?"
"Yes. I think you understand me now. This isn't like any of your previous boyfriends or...whatever. I see something in you, Svetlana. Something special. A spark, a flicker, a fire. You're more than just a Banu Haqim Neonate. More than just a woman capable of fighting, much more than that. There's something about you, Svetlana."
Svetlana gives him a sidelong glance, eyes narrowed, "There is a lot you do not know about me, Seth--"
The Sand-Snake cuts her off and pleads, taking her hands in his, "Then tell me! Tell me everything about yourself! All the secrets, the joys, the fears, the horrors, everything! I won't judge you or--or look at you in a funny way. Trust me, Svetlana. Let me in."
He looks her dead in the eye, "Please, Svetlana."
Svetlana shakes her head, "Nyet. I--I do not know if I can do that. Please, Seth. Not now. We have Second Inquisition to fight. We must put aside all our feelings and only focus on Judging the enemy. Maybe after, when it is all over, we can...talk?"
Seth begrudgingly accepts this, "Hmph. Fine. Yes, you're right, Svetlana. Absolutely right. The squeaky wheel gets the grease; fighting the SI comes first."
"I thank you, Seth. Spasibo. Please, help John, help the Blade. He is very, very worried. We do not have enough people to fight the enemy."
"Of course, Svetlana. Don't worry, I'll talk with the others and see if we can come to some sort of mutually beneficial arrangement." He twirls his cane and walks off, feeling a bit disappointed that things didn't go the way he'd hoped they would.
(What the hell was he hoping to accomplish, anyway?!)
Seth walks to the center of this place and waves for all the Kindred to gather. It takes a little while, but they all eventually gather around him in a circle and listen.
Tommy, Paul, and John look a bit huffy and pissed off, but they manage to stay quiet. Svetlana has that serious, determined look on her face.
Seb and Mark remain indifferent. Absalom and Mr. Bean stand next to each other and fold their arms in front of them.
Vizier Mohammed contemptuously glowers at John and his Childe while Ms. Kawasaki twitches and tries to resist the urge to put her blade through someone's chest.
Seth paces around and speaks, "This is a big night for us. We still have the Second Inquisition running around, taking pot-shots at anyone and anything. It would seem that we've...rattled the hornet's nest."
Paul scratches his nose with his thumb and remarks, "C'mon, Seth, we've barely put a dent in the SI's infrastructure in this city!"
Seth clears his throat, "We'll get to that later, Paul. However, we can take comfort in the fact that they've been drawn out. We know what they are, we have some idea of how they operate, and we also have an inkling of how they fight."
Tommy chimes in, "Aye, they fight dirty! Bunch of fucking wallopers, they are! Grrr!"
Seth chuckles and proceeds, "Thank you, Mr. Bollard, for that insight. Also, it's best that we don't underestimate them. Heh, of course, I'm preaching to the choir at this point. I've heard the Blade's been busy. Mr. Suarez? John? Care to come up here and tell us what you've seen?"
John starts off by saying, "We need people if we're gonna get this shit done with, OK?! Now, our spineless asshole of a Primogen..."
He points a finger to the Vizer, "...REFUSES to let the other Banu Haqim get involved in this damn fight. He's the one who's fucking this up and holding us back here! There--there's barely 40 of us a--and we've already lost a few good people last night! WE NEED HELP!"
Seth calmly nods and offers, "I'm sure all of are willing to do so, if we can reach a common ground."
John's face contorts into a series of twitches and squints, and he lets out an enraged snarl, "The fuck does that mean?! ALL our Unlives are at stake here! We're the ones risking our necks out there, night after goddamn night, to whittle these bastards down! Now ain't the time for petty politics or fuckin' blood oaths, man!"
Tommy awkwardly chuckles and stares at the ceiling, "Aye. Don't mean tae cause a ruckus in this wee gaffe, but John's right. This is no the time for all this shite."
Absalom concurs, "I agree. We have already borne witness to the handiwork of our foes- the Marjan Tower is nothing but rubble. 100s destroyed, all gone in an instant. 1000s more will be claimed and lost unless they are driven from these lands. They have already slain far more than we have. We have to stop them, High Priest."
Mark opines, "Well, I'm not a member of the SI fan club, but I'm also not about to get my hands dirty in this...whatever this is. The Ventrue have their own thing going on and with all the recent chaos, our business interests have um...taken quite a hit."
John angrily spits, "Fuck your business interests."
Mark shrugs that off and continues, "It's just the way it is, buddy. I'm doing my best to deal with this the right way, and I'm getting a ton of pressure from my fellow Ambitiones to make sure that things don't come crashing down all around us- literally and metaphorically. It--it isn't easy, OK?!"
Sebastian muses, "I'm with Mark on this. Unbelievable, I know. Do you know how many shows, photoshoots, auditions, parties, and events I've had to cancel or postpone to NEXT FUCKING YEAR?! You know how much money I've been burning--"
Svetlana cuts him off, "Shut up! Or I will come there and slap you again!" she follows it up with some choice curse words in Ukrainian. Paul faintly chuckles at that and takes a quick huff from his vape pen.
Sebastian gives her a dirty look, but he keeps his mouth shut.
Seth rolls a shoulder and shakes his head, "I'm not asking you to give up your Unlives or your money or resources. Hmph, well not yet anyways. No, if anyone's gonna foot the 'bill' for all this, it's us- the Ministry. It won't be easy, or cheap, but we've more or less spoken amongst ourselves and agreed to pay...should the need arise."
Vizier Mohammed grunts steps forward, "The Banu Haqim will aid YOU and your Clan, High Priest. I refuse to lend any support to the Blade of Haqim. These extremists disgrace our great Antediluvian by bearing his name in vain."
John's face contorts into a mixture of rage and shock, "FUCK YOU, you spineless, sniveling little sh--" he screams and lunges forward, but Svetlana bolts forward and restrains her Sire.
Vizier Mohammed yelps and cowers away while Ms. Kawasaki leaps forward and pulls out her tant and brandishes it around in a threatening manner.
Svetlana pleads with her Sire to control his anger, "John, John, no! Do not do it. Is not worth it, John, stop. No!"
Ms. Kawasaki growls and taunts her 2 fellow Assamites, "C'mon, you jokers. Just gimme a reason. All I need is a reason to split your heads from your bodies." She looks like she wants, more than anything, to fight.
Mr. Bean snickers at this but quickly catches himself and straightens his back. He clears his throat and looks at Absalom. He looks back at his charge and says nothing in response.
Vizier Mohammed hobbles away and cowers behind his charge, peering over her shoulder and shooting mean, dirty looks at Svetlana and John.
Seth shakes his head and goes on, "Don't worry, Ms. Kawasaki, you'll have your chance to cut loose later on but now is not the time. Anyway, where were we?"
John answers, "A status update! WE have been risking our necks out there, doing YOUR dirty work, and for WHAT?! So, the rest of you assholes can line your fuckin' pockets with MORE cash and shiny trinkets?!"
Absalom sternly commands, "Calm yourself, Saracen. Even the Malkavians have, as you say, been risking their necks in the struggle against the forces of the Second Inquisition. You are not the only ones fighting them."
The Malkavian Elder calmly tilts his head and looks John directly in the eye, "Do not overestimate your capabilities, Assamite. I know better than anyone in here that it is easier to meet Final Death on nights such as these- perilous and savage nights, where the demise of untold 1000s is a certainty and survival is not a guarantee, but a luxury earned."
Mr. Bean quips, "Mmm-hmm. What he basically said, um...yep. We haven't exactly been slashing and slicing those goons up, like--" he makes all kinds of funny sounds and slashing gestures with an imaginary knife.
He awkwardly laughs and brings his fingers to the sides of his head, "We've been playing mind games with 'em! Like, making them doubt their sense of reality, sending them on wild goose chases till they run outta gas, and all that shit. They're definitely a whole lot more confused right now, heh heh!"
Absalom frowns and sighs, "Not...necessarily so, Mr. Bean. But, yes, we have been fighting against our common foe utilizing methods that are more unconventional in nature. Our...unique set of skills has proved useful in helping us stymie their activities in the region."
John's face is a mix of anger, confusion, and shock. He asks, "Is that all you've been doing? Fuckin' theme park mind games?!"
Tommy intervenes and glares at John, "Aye, simmer doon, pal. Simmer doon. It's working, that's all that matters, awright? We help these wee Malks here keep those SI bastards occupied and chasing after the sands. They do that and they're away from you lot, so you don't have that many tae chib. Sounds good, aye?"
John sees the logic of Tommy's reasoning, "Hmm, OK, fine. Yeah, if there's more out there chasing after phantoms, it means there's less to shoot at us when we do encounter each other. Alright, fine. We'll...let the Malkavians do their thing, give 'em a wide berth and all that."
Seth pats John's back and turns to the rest, "Good, good. All on the same page, I hope? Great! Thomas, I believe you have something for us? That's why you called us here, right? Care to share whatever it is with the rest of the class?"
The Nosferatu Primogen rubs his deformed hands together and adjusts his mosaic porcelain mask. He steps forward, but not before giving Mark and Seb a cold glance.
He takes a deep breath and forces it out, "I believe we've found a way into their systems."
Gasps of surprise and murmurs of anticipation erupt from amongst the crowd.
Tommy scratches the side of his mask and goes on to say, "Now, now, no be getting your pants in a twist, awright? No be jumping the gun here, aye? Geez a few more nights, just a few, to gather more data and make sure our own systems are capable of handling whatever these cunts might throw at us."
Seth purses his lips and sighs, "Go on. What do you have, Thomas?"
"Oi, well, it's a wee bit complex, Sethie, boy. We need more data, those SD cards that the Assamites 'ave been providing should do, but we are gonnae need a hell lot more than that. A LOT more than that, that's all I can say at the moment. I don't want to get you all excited. Just wait for a wee bit more time and then we will proceed, aye?"
Seth contemplatively strokes his chin, "Very well. What would you need from us, in terms of...resources and the like?"
Tommy confidently answers, "Computers- powerful ones, not that tech store shite. And lots of them. Space, also lots of it. And leccy, uninterrupted; it's been all dodgy these past few nights. Internet, too, blazing fast. Ours is a wee bit spotty down in those manky auld sewers, heh."
Seth's eyebrows shoot up, "Well, I'll see what I can do. I think I know someone from our Clan who's a VP in an Internet company. I can get them to uh...reroute some bandwidth, or whatever it's called, to you Crawlers. Sound alright? I could also arrange a few computer parts currently languishing in a port. It's been just sitting there, gathering dust, I think."
Tommy claps the Typhonist on the back and answers, "Aye, thanks! Much obliged, pal. Much obliged. Don't worry, no be getting your knickers in a twist over it, eh?"
Seth smiles and nods, "Oh, I'm not worried, not 1 bit. I'm sure that everything will work out great in the end." There's a sinister undertone in his voice, one that no one notices or catches on to.
Absalom, however, narrows his eyes and glares at the High Priest, a subtle smirk forming on the latter's mouth.
Seth extends his hands out, "Well, there's still the numbers problem. I know the Vizier has his mind made up and nothing's gonna change that. Anyone else here willing to offer Kindred who can fight and aren't afraid of the sight of blood and guts and gore- lots of it, heh."
Shaking heads and murmurs all around.
Seth sharply exhales, "Hm, well, it is what it is, I guess. For what it's worth, the Ministry stands by whoever's out there, risking Unlife and limb, to drive these SI hooligans from this Domain."
The Nosferatu Primogen raises his chin and pointedly asks, "Then how come YOU are no out there, fighting these cunts alongside the Assamites and Lunatics?"
Seth's face tics and he forces an awkward, but faint, smile on his face, "Oh, I am offering my support, Mr. Bollard. Don't get me wrong, I'm not a coward or a wimp or anything like that."
He stops for a moment and studies everyone gathered here. He proceeds, "I will never ask you to do anything that I wouldnt do myself. But I feel strongly that my role in this should be one of support and guidance...of a spiritual nature. The outward wounds may or may not mend themselves with the passage of time, but the inward ones..."
He lets that linger in the air and paces around, "Anyway, I think that's enough for 1 night. We'll continue this later, when the time is right. Keep doing whatever it is you're doing, because that seems to be working, despite the setbacks."
John sighs and shakes his head, "If that's all, then...sure. I'll have to relay the not-so-great news to the rest of us, they're not gonna be too thrilled about it."
Seth smiles and offers, "May Typhon be with you all in your many endeavors, be they mundane, spiritual, or otherwise."
John scoffs and mutters to himself, "Pfft, not exactly worth the paper it's written on. Hfft, fine, thanks anyway. C'mon, Svetlana, let's get the hell outta here. We got some more nests to shake out tonight. Let's hope there's not too many of these fuckers out there..."
Svetlana nods and follows her Sire, "Spasibo, Seth." She curtly bows her head and briskly walks off.
Tommy calls out to the 2 Assamites, "Oi, same arrangement, aye? Geez more of those wee SD cards and shite! Garth will be waiting for yous near the westside sewer entrance, OK? It's a big tunnel, easy to get lost in, so watch yourselves, awright?"
The 2 Banu Haqim nod and head off, determination marking every step they make.
John rubs his hands together, "I think that's all. Let's get back out there and kick some ass, or whatever. And let's hope our asses don't take too hard of a kicking, heh."
"Da."
The rest of the bloodsuckers here either talk amongst themselves about fairly unimportant matters or choose to keep quiet and walk away.
Absalom is the next to leave, followed closely by Mr. Bean.
Vizier Mohammed keeps his head lowered and speaks to the High Priest in a low voice, "Mr. Steale. A word, if you will."
Seth and the Assamite Vizier go to a secluded area and begin to have a very hush-hush chat about something. Tommy's innate curiosity is piqued, and he cranes his neck, trying to overhear them.
Unfortunately, he's too far away. Still, he makes out certain phrases, like "guarantee", "rid", "entire" and so on. He's not exactly sure what they're talking about, but he's sure that it cannae be anything good.
Hmm, interesting.
Seb and Mark exchange a few harsh words before parting ways for the night. Paul the Toreador Harpy is walking about, vaping and admiring the dilapidated state of the abandoned power plant.
"Oh, wow, cool," he says to himself while staring intently at a small growth of flowers on a patchy section of the ground. The flowers are small and reddish in color.
Paul forces some strawberry vape smoke out of his mouth and is transfixed by these little flowers. His jaw hangs open, his eyes are wide, and he's mumbling something inaudible.
Everything around him seems to go quiet, like someone pressed the mute button on a TV remote.
The Aesthete loses grip of his vape pen and continues staring, deeply and keenly, at the small flowers on the ground. The vape pen hits the ground with a light thud and rolls to a stop.
Paul, completely transfixed with these little flowers, squats down and shakily extends his hand toward them, his eyes watering up with blood as he does so.
His hand is a few millimeters away from the flowers when he is suddenly snapped out of his trance. He gasps and leaps back, blinking his eyes rapidly and scratching his head.
"Oh, oh, great. Again, huh. Haha. Uh...where's my vape?" he pats his suit pockets and checks around the ground, but he doesn't find it.
"Well, shoot."
The Harpy brushes the dirt off his knees and struts off to where his vape pen rolled to. As he picks it up, he happens to glance in the direction of the High Priest and the Assamite Vizier. He notices them shaking hands and giving each other some kind of a guarantee, well that's what it seems to look like from where he's standing.
The Harpy can't really tell what's happening there, but he doesn't look like the 2 are shaking hands out of friendship or respect. He also can't read their lips, and the 2 of them are standing a good distance away from him, but it looks like they're talking about...something.
"Hm. Interesting," he thinks to himself and takes another drag from his vape pen. The smoke billows out of his mouth and he smoothly exhales it out. He lets his head hang low and thinks, "Something's up. Something's going down."
Being the Harpy means being privy to certain happenings in the Domain (be they private or public). It also means being aware of everyone's little secrets (the dirty ones, in particular). Of course, there's a lot more to this "position" than mere gossipmonger, and Paul Devers has proved himself to be something of a shrewd and well-spoken Harpy, as well.
Paul thinks to himself, "I gotta get to the bottom of that. Something's brewing in the Ministry. I'm--I'm sure of it."
Something IS indeed brewing within the Ministry, and it all comes back (in some way or the other) to the High Priest- Seth Steale.
But can a single Harpy stand in the way of decades-long plans that are already in their advanced stages and nearing completion, hmm?
Paul, for now, decides to keep a close eye on the High Priest himself, and as the evening draws to a close and everyone else disperses, he makes his way towards the Havens of Kindred he knows (not just fellow Toreadors, but others, too), and he makes himself cozy and gets them to talk.
Secrets for secrets, favors for favors. He even cashes in on a few favors that are owed to him. Where needed, he does a little cajoling, a little schmoozing, and a little buttering up (even if none of it is necessarily his cup of tea).
Paul has got his wits and his connections, and he knows how to play his cards right in the Great Game. He knows when to keep a secret under his guard for decades on end, and he knows when to unload it and leverage it against others.
Regardless, Paul is a simple man, and his goals are not exactly lofty. He's simply doing what he has to do to ensure that everyone comes out of this battle against the SI without too many lasting scratches.
With enough favors and secrets, he can get almost anything done, and with enough agreements made, he can even get people to contribute to the fight against the Unit 8211 threat in more...meaningful ways.
Ah, well...
Time marches on and it's now approximately 2:40 AM. The sky's still dark, very few stars twinkle above, and mortal life (in the forms of zooming vehicles and large crowds) subsides to a few scattered pockets here and there. There are still Kindred about, of course.
The streets aren't as lively and raucous as during the earlier hours, it's getting quiet and barren as John and Svetlana go, by taxi, to a certain industrial zone on the west side of this vast city, an industrial zone that connects to the many old, abandoned sewers (as well as the not-so-old but barely functioning ones).
Barren and lifeless as can be. The roads aren't paved very well. Cracked asphalt, holes everywhere, and deep grooves where cars, lorries, and other heavy vehicles have traveled down time and time again. Most of the signs have either fallen or have faded so much that they're practically invisible.
Even the taxi driver mumbles some confused phrases in Hindi and has to consult with a few locals (tormented immigrant laborers living around here) to guide him towards this particular location. They just point at some roads that look like the ones they need to go through.
After a few more minutes, the taxi stops at an empty intersection. John reaches into his back pocket, produces a few worn dirhams and gives it to the taxi driver.
The taxi driver counts it and gingerly says, "No change, sir?"
John stifles a sigh and pats the weary mortal on the back, "Mm, it's alright. Keep it." As it is, he's pretty short on money, but he's not about to engage in verbal fisticuffs with this baggy-eyed old man.
Svetlana and her Sire exit the car. The taxi driver reverses and drives off, dust trailing in its wake. Svetlana cranes her neck around and surveys the surroundings, looking at kilometers and kilometers of empty road. A few stray buildings dot the sandy landscape, but most of it is nothing but unclaimed wilderness and emptiness.
She looks back and forth at a few dilapidated warehouses that are near them and sees a few very small signs written in Urdu and Hindi.
John points to a random warehouse and slings his guitar case (containing his sword) over his back, "Right, that looks like it. I think. The others should be around here somewhere, probably. If we're lucky, that is."
Before walking, he turns around to his Childe, "Svetlana, I wanted to...talk to you about something. Quickly."
Svetlana checks her 2 daggers in her purse. She then nods and turns her gaze towards her Sire, "Da, what is it, John?"
"It's about Abdullah. I'm worried about him."
"What is it, John?"
"Despite it all, even after all these years...he's just a kid, Svetlana. 19-years-old at the time of his Embrace. I--I know he's a capable Blood Sorcerer and all, but--I just worry about him."
Svetlana points out, "So far, he has fought well."
John has a rigid expression, "I know that, but I hope that this...doesn't take too much of a toll on him. All this fighting, all that crazy stuff he does with his Blood Magic...I know we have to use whatever weapons we have against our enemies, but...it's still dangerous stuff, Svetlana."
"Abdullah knows how to control it. Otherwise, he would not have come this far," she responds, keeping her voice level.
"I hope you're right," John solemnly responds and walks towards the warehouse with the faded sign that's barely legible.
He stops and clenches his jaw, "Goddamn. I--I don't know if I'd be able to forgive myself if something happened to him, Svetlana. He's like...my best friend, the lil bro I never had, heh. He was the first one who I met when I came to the UAE."
With a lone tear of blood rolling down his left cheek, John says, "I was expecting Banu Haqim here, sure, but it was a surprise when Abdullah said that he's with the Blade. From there, we became great friends. How time has...flown since then."
He rubs his face and wipes the blood-tears away with his sleeve, "Shit, anyway, c'mon, let's go. We got a long fight ahead of us. Let's hope it doesn't turn out to be a disaster like last night."
Svetlana grunts and has an apprehensive look on her face when she hears that.
John notices this and gets what's happening, "Oh, right. Svetlana..."
She struggles to meet her Sire's concerned gaze.
"Svetlana...if--if you see that asshole again--"
She quickly interjects, "I will Judge him, John. Not you or others."
"Fair enough."
After a minute of walking up a muddy and uneven path, Svetlana and her Sire see a warehouse with the door hanging loose. It's dark, dingy, and decrepit as all hell. A lone lamppost weakly illuminates this entrance to this derelict place.
At the door, John mumbles something to himself, "Bollard. Tommy? Thomas. Thomas Bollard. I swear I've heard that name before."
He continues in his thoughtful musing, "I think it was back in the 1980s, some uh...newspaper article about...I forgot. Hmph. Anyway, that can wait. C'mon, Svetlana, let's get set up for tonight."
The door creaks open as Svetlana pushes it open. Inside, most of the Blade of Haqim members are gathered around, furtive and tired looks on their hollow and sunken faces. A few look at the door as Svetlana and John come through, but the majority pay them no mind.
Abdullah, his arms crossed and his brow furrowed, is the only one who gets up to greet the new arrivals. He's dressed in dark denims and a shell jacket. His sneakers are scuffed and tattered.
"As-salamu alaykum," the Blood Sorcerer greets his fellow Assamites.
"Wa alaykumu s-salam," Svetlana smiles, and then frowns when she sees the bags under the Blood Sorcerer's eyes, "You look tired. How are you keeping?"
There's some straining in Abdullah's voice, but it's faint, "I cannot complain, habibi. I shouldn't. Come, come, we have been waiting a long time for you. Some of us were even wondering whether you would show up or not. I got the burner phone here, John."
He pulls out a burner phone (cheap flip-phone variety) and tosses it to the John. He deftly catches it in his palm and flips it open.
Samir is standing in a dark corner, barely visible. His arms are folded and he's leaning against a wall that isn't covered in mold or cracks. He's wearing a tight, collared short sleeved shirt with smiley face patterns and skinny jeans. Cheap brown sandals, too.
He looks a little frustrated and his lower lip moves from side to side as he looks at a newspaper (the jobs section) with a look of deep concentration and dissatisfaction. He flips through a few more pages and shakes his head, mumbling (and likely cursing) in Arabic under his breath.
A few of the others are sitting around a large, circular table. Zeina sits among them. She's dressed in a silk shirt and wide-legged pants. Her hair is combed back. There's a faint frown on her face. She appears to be...on-edge, for some reason. The other Assamites here look bored or fatigued, but otherwise no one appears to be overly troubled by anything.
Zeina springs up and gesticulates, "We have been waiting for you for 40 minutes! I took off from work early and spent an hour trying to find this place! Walla, this had better be worth it!"
John presses his lips into a thin line and acknowledges her (justified) concerns with a curt nod, "I'm sure it will be worth it. Sorry if it seems like we're late."
Zeina tsks and walks off to sit by Abdullah's side. He pats her on the back, a sympathetic expression on his face, "You seem more troubled by this than usual."
She claps back at him, "And you're not?!" Her eyes are wide and she looks ready to spring up and snap at anyone at any given moment.
The Blood Sorcerer answers with a half-hearted shrug, "It is something that we cannot control at the moment, habibi. Regardless, we are here now, ready to Judge the Zionists and avenge those who have fallen by their hands."
John clears his throat and calls everyone to gather closer. Samir angrily tosses the newspaper aside and strides to join his fellow Assamites. They all gather in a rough semi-circle in front of John. The majority look indifferent, a few appear to be nervous, but there's a couple who are obviously eager to get to bidness and kick some Zionist ass.
John blows a raspberry and holds the burner phone up, "Once I make this call, they're gonna come at us. After last night's...debacle, we're not taking any risks, everyone. No mistakes, stay together, and watch each other's backs. OK? No trying to be a hero, heh."
John continues, "I want everyone on guard and ready. You can bet your ass that these assholes will be coming at us with everything they've got- and we've already seen what that means. Eyes up for drones but prioritize those with flamethrowers or incendiary shotguns. No point worrying about the stakes, just don't let 'em get in too close to us."
Nodding heads and sounds of assent all around.
John licks his lips, and his hands shake when he starts to dial a random number. He holds the phone close to his mouth and starts screaming in, "BEAST! BEAST! VAMPIRE! BLOOD! KINDRED! Gimme a few bags of blood! I'm here, the new place, and I want the good stuff in 30 minutes or less. Don't try and screw us over, either--"
In the Unit 8211 Command Center...
An analyst is busy typing away at a mechanical keyboard. She has a mono headset on, and a ping hits her screen. The automated keyword scanner in her monitoring software catches something and it sends her a pop-up notification. Red borders and a few exclamation points. All written in Hebrew.
She looks up, sees the alert and her eyes widen. Her fingers glide across the keyboard and she loudly calls out, "Commander Gallant? Sir? Sir?"
Commander Gallant straightens his back and approaches her with a gait of authority and command. He stands above the analyst and places his hand on her shoulder, "Report. What do you have?"
She grimaces slightly when she sees his hairy hand on her shoulder. She quickly and succinctly summarizes what just came into her screen, "Sir, a phone call JUST came in and some of the keywords we've been scanning for. Potential blank body activity! It's still going on. I am running a trace now, sir."
The Commander smirks and slightly tightens his grip on his subordinate's shoulder. A light gasp escapes her lips, but she manages to retain her professional demeanor. Her fingers clatter against her keyboard, "Running a triangulation now. Tracing."
Things move across a grid map of Al-Kushraf city. Satellite imaging is also in operation. Her software runs at maximum efficiency as she types, clicks, and talks out loud as she does it. Her brow is slightly damp with some sweat, but her eyes remain wide open.
The Commander looks down and takes a moment to inspect his subordinate. He lecherously eyes her up and down, a small smirk on his face as he does so. His subordinate keeps her head facing straight forward, not really looking up at her superior officer. She's too busy tracing this phone call and following up on other alerts that come pouring into other systems.
She gets an exact lock on the phone signal's point of origin. She claps her hands together and gasps in satisfaction, "Got it! Some...old warehouse district, no longer in use. Should I dispatch the nearest team, sir?"
"Hmm, yes."
"Is it an ambush, s--sir?"
Commander Gallant smirks in a snug manner and grimly declares, "I hope it is. Good work, soldier. Tell the other teams to remain close and be on standby. Also, redirect our patrol units- make sure they cut off any and all road exits into and out of those coordinates."
The analyst nods, her hair bobbing in a stiff manner, and she makes those calls. Commander Gallant straightens his uniform and stands with his back straight and his head held high.
He authoritatively hollers out, "We have found them! I want drones up in the sky in 2 minutes! GO! GO! GO! GO!"
Lieutenant Hilda Klein approaches and firmly salutes her superior officer, "Yes, sir?"
The Commander nods and motions for her to approach closer. He lowers his voice and talks in her ear, "The blank bodies are there, Lt. Klein. If, God forbid, our first team is killed by these savages, I want YOU to lead the next squad. Take the grenade launchers, I know how much you like those."
Lt. Klein nods her head, "You know me too well, sir. Capture or kill?"
"If at all possible, capture at least 1 and kill the rest. I'd prefer that Suarez fellow, but any of these savages will do."
Lt. Klein salutes, turns on her heel, and briskly walks off to the Armory to suit up and gather the troops. Commander Gallant rubs his hands together and leans against the chair, waiting for his analysts to come in with more status updates.
A clash is inevitable.
Dark SUVs with tinted windows roar across the (mostly) empty streets of Al-Kushraf at breakneck speed. Some of these goons have submachine guns strapped to their chests or AP-ammo-loaded sidearms in their holsters. Most are dressed in civilian clothing whilst others have more a more obviously "tactical" look with bulky armored vests, gloves, and combat boots.
1 of the drivers calls the Command Center on an encrypted radio. A couple of operators sit at their terminals and listen.
"Command Center, this is Alef-2. Come in, Command Center?"
Lt. Veifer is on comms and replies, "We read you, Alef-2. ETA?"
"Less than 2 minutes."
"Remember the nature of your enemy. Flamethrower units are enroute. Utilize special shotgun ammo and stakes in close-quarter combat. Foes are known to utilize knives and swords. Exercise caution. Keep a distance at all times and do not get complacent, over."
"Roger that."
The driver turns the radio off. His compatriot sitting beside him and a couple of others in the backseat talk among each other. Some Israeli accents are mixed in with some British and American accents.
The driver has a strong British accent when he says, "They're savages, animals, demons...they're the spawn of hell itself. Just keep that in mind, lads. Stay strong, keep your chins up, and don't waste your fucking ammo."
Cheers and other sounds of agreement. A couple of guys have their hands over their hearts, muttering pointless prayers. Others load their guns and inspect their long wooden stakes. They know EXACTLY what they're up against. The driver, however, remains grimly stoic, keeping his eyes on the road.
It isn't long before 4 SUVs roll up to the abandoned warehouse. They stop to a screeching halt and dust trails behind them. A few operators get out and fan out. 3 of them are carrying automatic shotguns (loaded with whitey-p). The other carries a compact SMG. The drivers kill the engine and step out as well.
It's a few minutes before 3:00 AM. There aren't any streetlights out here. A few lights inside the warehouse illuminate some areas around the door.
Through a small crack, Samir spots the Inquisitors. He turns to face John, "They are here."
The Assamite nods and gathers his composure for the fight ahead, "Alright, people. Showtime. You know what you gotta do, so let's get to it."
Some Assamites have a little pep in their step as they march to the doors and wait. Most are tense. Some are worried about the prospect of their own impending demise.
Others put their backs to the wall and pull out whatever sharp melee weapon they've got and grip it tightly. John and Abdullah both look out through the small crack to survey their enemies. Abdullah mumbles something under his breath and does a small hand wave gesture.
John regards his friend with some concern, "More Blood Sorcery, huh?"
"I was practicing some techniques, habibi. Do not worry, I fed a little extra tonight, so I have a good store of Vitae."
John nods, his mind heavy with thoughts of concern and anxiety, "I hope this goes well, man."
Abdullah nods and continues surveying their enemies, "As do I, habibi. Their stakes are sharp, yes?"
John nervously touches his chest and gulps, "Mm-hmm. Don't even get me started on those fire-breathing shotguns of theirs."
"Hmm, yes."
Zeina circles around and readies her long dagger. She twirls it around and prepares herself for a long fight. John pulls out his katana and runs 2 of his fingers across its razor-sharp edge. He then reaches for the door and opens it up.
He strolls out first and flicks his sword around, "Took you fucks long enough, hm? Catch me if you can!" With that, he activates his Celerity Discipline, and his body starts to move much quicker than that of even the fastest mortal.
Some of the Inquisitors fire off warning shots as he zooms about like a mini whirlwind. Some of these rounds go wide and miss, some come close to hitting, and 1 almost burrows through John's flesh.
Zeina sighs and shakes her head, "Hmph, come. It is time..."
Samir uses Obfuscate to blend with the shadows. The darkness itself forms a cloak of protection around his body and conceals his form. He's now undetectable.
Svetlana, too, activates her Obfuscate Discipline and closes the wide gap between herself and the operatives who are wildly firing in the direction of John and the other Assamites who have got their own Disciplines in play.
With their superior speed, some Assamites use Celerity to cut off a few heads in the blink of an eye. 1 of the Inquisitors is frantically scanning for any enemies when a headless body tumbles and collapses in front of him. The head rolls forward and the lifeless eyes look up at him.
He jumps back in fright and curses in Hebrew. Svetlana gets within striking range and buries her dagger into his throat. She uses her other dagger to sever his spine in the blink of an eye and then hops onto another guy and gets to work.
Svetlana hears some screaming, the rapid crack of automatic weapons and shotguns, the wet, sharp, and violent sounds of pointy blades sinking into armor and flesh.
Samir creeps from shadow to shadow and pulls down on his target's arm and twists their neck. There's a wet "crunch" of snapping bones, tearing muscle, and puncturing organs. Svetlana sprints up to another guy and hacks at his legs with both her daggers.
Samir readies his poignard and quickly sinks it into the head of a thug with an automatic shotgun. Blood and brain matter leak onto his hands as he pushes it through the skull and twists it relentlessly. His victim lets out a weak wheeze and crumples to the ground like a rag doll.
Some of the Assamites don't last very long, however, and end up getting burned alive by the fiery shotty rounds.
John sees them turning to ash and screams out, "NO!" He quickly zooms past hails of suppressive fire and furiously slashes with his blade at some Inquisitor's backs.
Zeina does some acrobatics to dodge gunfire and then runs at an angle. She ducks as a volley of shots is sent her way, then quickly springs to her feet, grabs 1 of her enemies by the head and savagely guts them, plunging her dagger in and out, in and out of their belly.
Samir sneaks around, quietly taking out more and more of the goons from behind, getting to work with his poignard and preternatural strength.
Abdullah hides behind a rock and uses his Blood Sorcery to conjure up a tight protective circle around himself. With his bloodied fingers, he deftly draws a circle around himself, says the incantations in Arabic, and then slowly lifts his fingers up from the dirt.
He keeps his concentration and tries to lure some of these stray soldiers closer. Some fall for it, and they end up being taken out by either Abdullah's magic or Zeina's dagger.
Another Inquisitor stumbles when John runs at him, screaming at the top of his lungs as his katana slashes into the air and cuts his foe's head clean off. The head rolls off into some bushes and the body gushes blood out like a broken faucet. John doesn't bother to wipe the blood off his sword and dashes off to engage another goon with an incendiary shotgun.
This soldier shoots 2 whitey-p rounds at him, which are narrowly evaded.
Zeina takes her dagger and cuts 1 guy's stomach open. His intestines leak out onto the grass and soil, his hands frantically reach out to stuff them back in, but Zeina isn't done with him just yet. She yanks his head back and viciously drives her dagger into his mouth, the tip of it protruding from his forehead.
The soldier twitches a couple of times and then collapses onto the ground.
Samir runs up behind a soldier and slits her neck with his poignard. He immediately rematerializes and is pelted with shots from a submachine gun. Samir collapses and the Inquisitor smiles sadistically and moves forward to put his prisoner out of his misery. He readies a wooden stake.
"Hehe, this'll put you out of your misery, you sick f--"
Svetlana shanks him from behind and puts her knife in deep. He crumples and coughs blood into Samir's face.
Svetlana's face is twisted with determination and bestial rage, her hands and arms covered in blood and gore. She helps Samir up and jumps back into the fray of blood, gunfire, steel, and gore.
1 of the operatives screams in horror at the carnage. The gunfire continues to rattle. Some Assamites go down, others get wounded, and most keep up the pace, however.
This wave is almost whittled down. Drones watch the unfolding conflict from high up in the air, streaming the footage back to the Command Center.
Commander Gallant bites his thumb and frowns, "Oh, God of Israel. Grant us victory! Have mercy upon us!"
He makes a quick call, "Lt. Klein, ETA?"
"30 seconds. How bad is it?"
Commander Gallant sees 2 of his soldiers decapitated in a flash, their bodies falling and blood spurting and spraying everywhere. He grimaces at this sight, "Very. Hurry up. Our men and women are dying- they need help!"
John hacks off another soldier's hands, her blood squirts and stains his face. He finishes her off by slashing across her face, opening her eyes and the bridge of her nose and upper lip up in a spray of blood.
She screams as he does so. Her body falls and blood starts to pool under her.
John bares his fangs and wildly screeches into the air. Since he's been using his Celerity so much, he feels the eternal Hunger of his inner Beast begin to gnaw and claw at his mind.
He snarls and dashes to the closest trooper. He pulls them into a choke hold and savagely bites their throat open, tearing a huge chunk of it out. He continues to sink his fangs in and drain them until they're dead. As bullets whiz past him, he drinks deeply, feeling the warm and boiling blood rush through his throat.
After draining that trooper dry, his eyes become bloodshot. The world begins to turn red around him, his heart pumps rapidly in his ears, and he smells nothing but the metallic aroma of blood.
His hands shake uncontrollably, and he feels a shiver across his whole body. He stumbles and then quickly catches himself, the world still looking red to him.
The Beast within roars wildly and without restraint. John can feel his grasp slipping away as a feeling of raw, unadulterated, and primal bloodlust overtakes him.
He lets out a blood-curdling screech and sprints to his enemies with all haste, his claws fully out. His eyes look completely wild and unhinged, and he growls and snarls like an absolute maniac. He charges 2 troopers and viciously tears their heads off, the wet tearing sounds of flesh, muscle, and bone causing others to take notice of this...
Frenzying Assamite.
Oh, no. This is not good. Whatever was in that blood that John drank, it's clearly messed with his entire mind, and it's triggered a Frenzy.
1 of the soldiers sees this and starts to retreat. Svetlana catches her and finishes her off by plunging her blade in and out of her chest.
Some of the other Assamites follow John's idea and bite into their foes. The result is immediate, and it is messy. They begin to Frenzy out of control and go nuts, slashing, biting, and clawing their way to whoever is nearby, be they friend or foe.
Oh, god.
Svetlana gasps when a Frenzying Assamite pounces on her and tries to bite into her jugular. She rolls her over and kicks them away. Zeina runs to help but is pulled back by a trooper and the tip of their wooden stake nearly stabs into her back.
Zeina gasps, rolls, and pushes herself back up to her feet. She fights the stake-wielder who manages to push her onto her back again. She's pelted with some SMG fire and screams out in pain as a few bullets go through her midriff.
Zeina grits her teeth and shrieks as she rolls her hips forward, twists around, and kicks at her enemy with both legs. She takes her long dagger and shanks her foe right in their kidney area. Her victim cries out in pain and tries to shoot her again.
The shots go wild.
Svetlana struggles and groans and tries, with all her preternatural might, to get this Frenzying vampire off of her. Her strength would give her an edge, but not when it's matched with similar power.
Her arms get pinned to the ground, her attacker's face mere inches away from hers. She can see his fangs and that empty look in his eyes. She screams and pleads with him to snap out of it, but it's in vain.
Svetlana closes her eyes and lets out a weak cry, "NO! NYET! STOP! N--"
Her screams are drowned out by the crackle of SMG fire. The Frenzying Kindred leaps towards the source of the gunfire and rips them apart with his fangs and sharp claws.
The trooper cries out, "YAAAAA!" as he's being torn apart and drained. Her blood sprays across the ground. Her cries become softer as her life force slowly leaves her and makes it way down the throat of this Frenzying vamp.
Samir comes to Zeina's aid and finishes off the stake-wielder by plunging his poignard right in their gut, twisting it around, and then kicking them off it.
His eyes widen in shock when a Frenzying John pounces on him in a blurry flash and savagely bites his shoulder. Samir cries out in pain and tries to pry him off, but to no avail. He reaches for something, anything, but nothing is nearby. His poignard lies on the ground, a few feet away from him.
He feels the sharp, gnashing fangs tear his flesh, muscle, and sinew apart. His vision starts to get hazy. He lets out a howl of pain and screams for help.
Abdullah is shocked by this recent development. He musters up the courage and uses some of his Blood Sorcery to try and perhaps, un-Frenzy, his fellow Assamites who have fallen to their most base and bestial instincts and urges.
The Frenzying Assamites look up when he chants in Arabic, "Stop this at once! Stop this insanity!" With blood flowing from his wrist, he waves his arm about.
Nothing. The Frenzying vamps, or those who are on the edge of it, charge forward and try to slash at him, tear into him, and drink deeply from his veins.
He yelps and dodges away as the next wave approaches. Lt. Hilda Klein steps out of a large van, about a dozen soldiers behind her, and they immediately start unloading on the Frenzying bloodsuckers with their shotguns and flamethrowers.
Flesh gets torn apart. The screams are horrible and terrible. Those who haven't yet Frenzied still don't know that it's whatever these Israeli psychos are juicing up with that's causing this. They begin to contemplate falling back.
John has almost completely Frenzied now, his entire body feels hot with blind rage and insatiable Hunger, and nothing else. Samir manages to flee from him, but his wounds take time to mend themselves.
Whatever those Zionists maniacs have been injecting into their bloodstreams is dangerous stuff. That CEDP (Combat-Enhancing Drug Protocol) stuff apparently causes a vampire to enter an uncontrollable Frenzy when they drink the blood of its carriers.
But, why? And how? Who, in their right mind, would make such a vile concoction and who would inject it if they knew its contents? It's probably part and parcel of Unit 8211's interpretation of the infamous Hannibal Directive.
Let the vamps drink and drain the soldier dry, and they'll all go wild, uncontrollably so, and it'll make it easier to wipe them out. If the soldier dies, the soldier dies. Better than letting them become a warm meal for a bloodsucker out on the battlefield, eh?
Sheesh.
These Frenzying vamps start running wild, slashing their everyone apart and tearing anyone who dares cross their line of sight.
Abdullah retreats and tries to cast another Blood Sorcery spell, but it is no good. It fails. His eyes widen in fear as John dashes forward and goes in to savagely attack him with his claws and fangs.
The young Blood Sorcerer holds out his hands, dripping with Vitae, and pleads, "No, habibi! NO! Stop! STOP!" He braces himself for the inevitable.
"NO!" Samir leaps in front of John and tackles him to the side. Still in the state of Frenzy, John snarls and makes all sorts of angry noises as he viciously swipes, bites, and kicks his opponent away.
Samir tries his best to dodge those claws. They're so close, however, that John manages to slash Samir's mouth and open it up on the left side. Samir stumbles back in pain and hisses. His tongue feels loosened. His flesh and muscles tear apart.
Svetlana dodges someone wielding a flamethrower, but she still struggles to close the distance as she runs in the opposite direction of those singeing flames. The flames behind her crackle. She cries out when they get a little too close for comfort.
The heat is enough to sear some of her clothing. Svetlana screams as the flames continue to burn. Her Rtschreck is triggered, and she bolts back to the warehouse without daring to look back at those bright, orange flames.
Samir grasps John by the throat and squeezes him as tightly as he can, trying to choke him or do something to snap him out of this mad state. His opponent, however, is so Frenzied that it does little to no good.
Abdullah helps Zeina up and uses another Blood Sorcery spell to conjure up some of that ol' reliable red mist. The operatives caught in it get choked up and drop dead to the ground almost immediately. Froth comes out of their mouths, their bodies spasm, and their eyes roll up into their skulls.
Lt. Hilda Klein takes notice of the carnage and readies her grenade launcher. She smirks and aims it in the general direction of a few Frenzying Assamites coming her way. She squeezes the trigger, and the explosive round flies right at the vamps, exploding in their faces and blowing their limbs off.
Those who aren't destroyed on sight writhe on the ground or fall into a Torpor from the shock alone.
Lt. Klein gives them no chance. She orders a few of her troops to finish them off. They step closer, aim for the head (or what might remain of it), and blast each and every one of them into fiery smithereens with their weapons.
She grimly chuckles at their misfortune and prepares her next shot as the destroyed Kindred crumble to ash and get scattered across the light and arid wind of this desert.
The carnage is unlike anything any of these operatives has seen thus far. Lt. Klein's soldiers continue to mop up and press the advantage.
In a fit of pure desperation, Abdullah tries an obscure Blood Sorcery technique, something he was just looking into the other night and hasn't perfected it just yet. He draws some Arabic letters on the ground, repeats the words to himself, and rushes towards John.
He smears his magical Vitae all over John and pushes him down, "John! Please! Please!" Abdullah tries his hardest to keep John from slashing his face up with those deadly claws of his.
Abdullah pleads and lets some of the Blood leak from his wrist and down into John's gaping maw, "No, John! Stop! You cannot go on like this! It will be the end of us, the end of you! Stop it, habibi! PLEASE!"
He shakes him with all his might as he desperately tries to calm his friend down, "STOP! HABIBI! This is not you! Put the Beast back in control, make it know its place once again." Sanguine tears roll down the Blood Sorcerer's cheeks.
John growls and hisses and snaps at Abdullah, desperately trying to rip his own friend to pieces and drain him dry. Abdullah clenches his jaw, shuts his eyes, and pushes as hard as he can against John's wild strength and sheer power.
After a moment, John spasms and his body twitches and jerks, but the Frenzy seems to subside somewhat. The wild look in his eyes dies down, his growls turn into groans, and he begins to regain some of his senses.
The shooting and killing still continues, however. Inquisitors corner the Frenzying Assamites and finish them off. Those that remain have started to fall back, not wishing to take any more risks. They've sort of figured out the source of the Frenzy but aren't quite sure yet.
1 of the Inquisitors tries to sneak up on Svetlana, who is still recovering from that her primal fear of the fire. She wildly finishes them off by maniacally stabbing into them until their blood comes out in torrents, drenches her hands and face, and stains her clothing.
Her eyes are completely bloodshot, and the look of utter, raw, primal fury has taken her completely. She can still feel the fire from that flamethrower licking at the back of her mind and burning at her memory.
Zeina hobbles and limps to some nearby solid cover and groans in pain as her wounds begin to close and heal themselves. The bullets come out of her, her vampiric body begins to heal itself, and her flesh knits itself together.
Samir looks over his shoulder and musters up some Vitae to disappear from sight altogether. Clutching his poignard, he slinks back to a safer spot.
John has subsided and (seemingly) recovered from the mad Frenzy he was in. Abdullah helps him up and they limp towards the other Assamites, dodging stray shotgun pellets and SMG bullets along the way.
Zeina pokes her head out of her cover, sees Abdullah, and cries out to him, "Abdullah, here! QUICKLY!"
John's head is spinning, and he can barely let out a legible and cogent sentence, "The f--fuck...?"
Abdullah grabs John and leads him to cover as well, "We have no time for questions! We have to leave now!"
The rest of the Assamites fall back towards the warehouse.
John clutches his head and winces, "What happened? Last thing I remember was biting into 1 of these assholes for a quick top-up. Next--next thing I...just start seeing red. I lose control and--and--!" He looks up at Abdullah with a sense of confused urgency.
Abdullah puts a hand on his shoulder and tells him, "There's no time to worry about that right now, habibi. We have to leave! There--there are too many of them and not enough of us! They--they--"
He peeks from his cover and watches the Unit 8211 thugs flame out a few more Frenzying vamps in quick succession. Their remains are left on the dirt. The operatives all reload their weapons, but that's all he sees.
He slinks back behind cover, and he gasps in fear, "They--they're destroying us! WE HAVE TO FLEE!"
Svetlana shakily points out, "We have no vehicle, nothing! How can we do that?! We have to fight!"
Samir joins in, "NO! It is simply too dangerous!! Abdullah is right. This is a lost battle! We need to leave. NOW! We should take 1 of their vehicles and drive as fast as we can!"
Zeina agrees, "We can't take these odds, Svetlana! There's too many of them and too few of us! And we have already lost so many..." her voice trails off as she says some of the names of those who either Frenzied or perished.
John lets out a loud exhale and grimly nods, "OK, OK. I--I feel...weird. We--We take 1 of those damn vehicles out there, drive as fast and as far as we can, and then we ditch it. We...make plans from there."
He shakes his head a few times, like a dog drying itself, and says, "Alright, alright. OK, I've got it. I feel so...alive. What--what did I just drink??" He peeks around the corner and sees the carnage that Unit 8211 is wreaking, the absolute carnage and devastation they have wrought with these flamethrowers, incendiary rounds, and...
His eyes widen and he calls out, "Oh, shit! Look out!"
Lt. Klein aims her grenade launcher in the direction of the Assamites and fires. The grenade whistles through the air and lands just in front of the Assamites, right near the corner where they're all taking cover behind.
They hiss and begin to disperse. Some dirt and small pebbles get blasted back from the impact area, but the main blast is somewhat diffused by the solid cover that the Assamites are taking.
Zeina lets out a sharp cry of pain and grabs the right side of her abdomen, where she was hit with that SMG fire earlier. The bullet holes in her shirt seem to have closed up, but she's still a little sore there.
John seems to back to his regular self. He looks on in horror as some Frenzying Kindred tear each other apart or run towards the Israeli forces to be burned to a crisp and reduced to ashes. Others who have fallen are swiftly finished off with incendiary rounds or flamethrowers to the face.
They crumble into dust. The Unit 8211 operatives let out a hearty and united cheer of joy and celebration for each of the vampires they destroy. They advance forward while Lt. Klein fires more 'nades, pushing the remaining vamps further back into the warehouse.
They're cornered with no way out. The surviving Judges decide that commandeering a vehicle and making their getaway is the only viable option.
Between them and the available vehicles, however, are a bunch of juiced-up fascist psychos with weaponry meant specifically for vampire extermination and elimination.
The Assamites slowly crawl backwards towards the warehouse. They have no other choice; they have to push and fight their way through these operators, grab a vehicle (anything large enough to fit all of them in), and DRIVE the fuck outta here!
But, where to? Well, driving back to Elysium is simply dumb and it's quite far away. Their respective Havens are out of the question for reasons obvious.
As the Assamites are pondering this, Abdullah lifts his bloodied finger into the air and exclaims, "What about where that Nosferatu told us to meet him? The...westside tunnels or something, yes??"
Zeina and Svetlana look at each other, and the latter fearfully asks, "Is--Is that good idea? We do not know if it is safe, Abdullah!"
The Blood Sorcerer counters by desperately saying, "What other choice do we have? WE NEED a destination. We cannot keep driving and driving without purpose. We need a safe location to lose our foes. I believe that tunnel is our best chance."
Svetlana and Zeina shrug and agree to this suggestion. As do John, Samir, and the remainder of the surviving Assassins.
They're up against a couple dozen heavily armed Zionist shits who all have combat-enhancing drugs in their bloodstreams. Not to mention, shotguns with whitey-p, flamethrowers, and SMGs with painful AP rounds.
Oh, and Lt. Hilda's got a fucking grenade launcher. The drones buzz in the sky and continue to relay live footage back to the Command Center.
Commander Obed cracks a small smile of wicked satisfaction and speaks to Lt. Hilda, "Good work, Lt. Klein. You've got them cornered. Now, go in and finish them off. Capture at least 1, if possible, for questioning."
Lt. Klein puts her fingers to her earpiece and gives him the affirmative, "Understood, sir."
She fires off 1 last grenade that blows the flimsy warehouse doors open. They fall right off their hinges, and a huge plume of dust and dirt flies in all directions. Some of the dust hits the faces of the Assamites and the Inquisitors who were just behind Lt. Klein begin opening fire.
They advance with caution and orderly discipline. Lt. Hilda orders a 3-person team to spread out and secure the perimeter. Her operatives fan out. Some take cover near the fallen doors while another 3 prepare to move inside, checking the corners of the warehouse for any surprises.
Well, it's either now or never!
While his head still thumps and reels, John yells out, "GO! GO! GO!" and he pushes himself forward with all his might and main. The rest follow his lead. They sprint towards the fallen doors and try to use them as cover, hoping to make a quick getaway.
The Assamites run around the fallen doors and make a mad dash for 1 of the large vehicles parked out near the front of the warehouse. The Zionists see this and immediately begin to fire at the Assamites, their rounds pelting the ground and sending small pebbles flying everywhere.
Some of the bullets hit, but the vampires either slash or keep pushing forward to the vehicles.
Lt. Klein notices the surge of bloodsuckers headed her way. She makes quick tactical hand signals and orders a few flamethrower units to advance and light up the oncoming and blurry wave of speed and violence tobogganing straight towards them.
A young Assamite in a niqab is the first to reach the vehicle and pulls the driver's side door open. She looks around and hisses at her allies, "YALLA! YALLA!"
Since there are quite a few vampires still remaining, fitting into this big van is not gonna cut it. John whooshes to a nearby SUV, deflects some bullets with his katana, and yanks the door open.
Lt. Klein quickly pulls out her pistol and takes a few shots at the vampires trying to make a vehicular getaway. John asks Samir to drive while he quickly dashes off in a blur and slashes the tires of the other vehicles.
Smart.
Samir clambers into the driver's seat and turns the ignition. The engine rumbles to life while Svetlana, Zeina, Abdullah, and a few other Judges dodge volleys of gunfire and potshots from the Zionist Inquisitors.
John blinks back in hollers, "DRIVE! GO! GO! JUST GO, SAMIR!"
The window is bulletproof (heh), so Samir puts his foot all the way down on the accelerator and floors the gas. The van peels out and takes off with a burst of speed and a squealing noise, as does the SUV containing the other batch of surviving Assassins.
Samir steers the wheel and manages to get them out onto the rocky night road, where he picks up some speed and drives straight ahead, not bothering to look back.
John sharply exhales and takes a moment to sit back and gather his composure. He looks around the van's interior and notices some hi-tech and advanced-looking equipment lying around.
He shakes his head and remarks, "We can't use any of this shit. They've got trackers on everything." Then, he realizes something.
"Oh, shit," he peeks out the window and sees a fleet of small, buzzing drones hot on their tail, "They've got fucking drones up above! NO!"
Samir nods, grips the steering wheel tighter, and presses his foot against the gas pedal a little harder.
Abdullah groans and slices his arm with his claw. He shuts his eyes, gently twists his hand in a certain direction, and a bright red mist floats out of his wounds. He chants under his breath.
A few of the drones explode in mid-air and come crashing down. John, Svetlana, Zeina, and Abdullah gasp in surprise as some drone debris hits the car's roof.
Lt. Klein hollers at Commander Gallant back in the Command Center, "Those animals took 2 vehicles and disabled the rest! WE NEED wheels ASAP!"
Commander Gallant responds, "Yes...we--we just lost them. Our drone feeds are all gone. Luckily, we have tracking devices on all our vehicles. Replacement vehicles arriving shortly. ETA: 2 minutes."
Lt. Klein scoffs, spittle flying out her mouth, "2 minutes?! I need them here in 30 seconds!"
Commander Gallant sternly reprimands his Lieutenant, "Hilda, do not raise your voice at me! These are your orders. Obey them! WAIT for the vehicles to arrive and continue your pursuit. We're tracking them now."
Lt. Klein frowns and her shoulders slump, "Yes, Commander Gallant. Apologies." She and the remaining Inquisitors continue their sweep while their replacement vehicles take their sweet time to show up.
The other Assamites in the van continue driving along, having for the time being, lost their foes. They all look so tired, broken, and defeated.
In the SUV, Zeina, who is sitting right behind John, reaches over and grabs his shoulder and looks him straight in the eye, "John...WHAT happened there?!"
John shrugs her hand off his shoulder, "I--I dunno, Zeina. Like I said, I bit into that bastard, drained 'em, and the next thing I--I know, I'm losing myself."
Zeina frowns, "Why? Why did you do such a thing?"
John doesn't answer that, and he merely replies, "I...I was hungry, Zeina. I thought it'd be safe, y'know, biting from our enemies, but that doesn't seem to be the case, huh?" he forces a laugh to ease the tension.
He leans forward, places his head in his hands, and tries to make some sense of this mess. He rubs the sides of his head with his stained fingers and winces as he still feels some of that whatever linger in his vampiric body.
"I taste...all kinds of stuff. Drugs, like...a whole lot. What are these fuckin' Israeli maniacs having for dinner? Steroid pancakes?! Ugh, it tastes so...metallic."
Abdullah's eyes have a faraway gaze in them as he mulls over what he has witnessed. He shakes his head and says, "It is indeed possible that the Zionists have done something to their blood, what exactly it is eludes me, however. Maybe someone with more knowledge of the Blood would be capable of enlightening us on this disturbing matter."
John turns to his Childe and says, "That Irish Tremere buddy of yours, maybe? Right?"
Svetlana plainly nods, "Da. Maybe Saoirse can help. But I would not be so certain- she is busy with her work."
Abdullah sighs, "I am sure this Usurper you speak of can help, Svetlana. There are many who know the secrets of the Blood, yes, but the Usurpers...their knowledge, walla, is unmatched and unparalleled."
Zeina grunts and scoffs, "So, what?! We cannot drink from our foes, then?! How are we supposed to--?"
Samir keeps his hands on the steering wheel and interjects, "That doesn't matter, Zeina! We simply have to rely on our strength and power. We'll have to keep our usage of Disciplines to a minimum, if such a thing were possible."
He swerves when he sees a fancy car zoom past him at a speed way beyond the prescribed speed limit (even on an empty stretch of road). He slams the brakes the car comes to a screeching halt.
Another fancy car zooms past in a blur, the tires on that one burning rubber.
Samir curses under his breath and continues, "The most important thing right now is not to panic. We have to find a way out of this, and we have to do it now. What was--what was--"
Another car whooshes past.
John's face scrunches in confusion and he looks outside to see even more cars approaching them. They don't look like they're for urban warfare, though. No, they look like they're meant for...
Street racing, of the questionably legal kind.
A pitch-black, shiny IRCO-Z with a matte-gray underbelly is in the lead, the other cars trailing not so far behind. John recognizes that IROC-Z. He jumps out of the hijacked vehicle and waves his arms frantically, yelling, "Stop! STOP! That's us! STOP!"
N0S4A2, the helmeted Caitiff racecar driver, hits the brakes and comes to a stop right at the side of the road. The other cars behind them zoom past, leaving them in last place. Yikes. They've got a rep to uphold and keep up.
N0S4A2 throws open the car door and hops out, a black and red jumpsuit on them. Their helmet remains on their head. They walk around the back and raise their chin, "What?"
John's eyes narrow, and he desperately says, "We need your help."
"No help," the Freestyler responds, their voice muffled and distorted.
John gets angry and hollers, "We're desperate here, OK?! There are some real bad people after us and we need someone good with wheels, someone who knows this city, and someone who can get us out of this! So, can you help us or not?!?!"
The Freestyler tilts their head and replies, "Why me?"
John gestures to his tattered and bloody demeanor, "Because you know this turf better than anyone else, because you're a damn good driver, and because I've seen you behind that wheel before."
N0S4A2 shrugs and looks at the others in the 2 vehicles, "What do you need?"
John explains, "We've got bad people after us. Second Inquisition. You know what that is, right?"
"Don't care for that."
"Hmph, whatever. We need you to--to uh...get us to a place. You know the westside sewer entrance. Some um...large tunnels. It's supposed to be somewhere near here."
"I know."
John exhales sharply and the hairs on his arm slowly stand on end, "Yeah, you know that. Good, good. Can you--can you help us? Please?"
N0S4A2 thinks it over, then replies, "I'll take you NEAR to the westside sewer entrance. I cannot do more than that--"
Zeina cuts off the Caitiff by hissing, "WHY will you not help us, Clanless??! Who even are you?"
N0S4A2 ignores her and gets back in their car. They gun their engine, pull off a quick and skilled U-turn, and peel off down the road. The Assamites and their 2 vehicles follow suit, albeit much more nervously.
Samir and John look at each other and shrug. Samir grips the steering wheel tight and focuses on keeping up with the skilled race driver in front of him. The other Assamite driving that other vehicle also keeps up, although it's clear she's having trouble keeping up with N0S4A2's speed.
N0S4A2's driving is measured, skilled, and controlled. No wild moves, no sudden turns, no reckless speeding. Just precise, calculated maneuvers and driving.
This is a professional who's likely been at it for YEARS.
It's not long before a fleet of dark and bulky SUVs roll up to the side of the road, their engines growling and their headlights bright as hell. A few Inquisitors emerge out of the lead vehicle and aim their guns at the Assamites and their 2 vehicles.
The Judges see this and panic, trying their best to speed up.
John orders Samir, "Get close to that Caitiff! We need to warn 'em!!"
Samir screams and rams an enemy SUV off the road. It swerves and hits a large rock, its tires smoking and squealing. The Inquisitor riding shotgun flies out the window and falls to the ground.
John shouts, "PUNCH it!"
Samir rolls aside the IROC-Z and John motions for the Caitiff to roll down their window. The window rolls down, N0S4A2 keeps their eyes locked on the road ahead- this one's quite bumpy, but they're doing fine.
"Listen, you have to get us out of this!" John urgently says, "Do you understand?? Also, we're being chased! They got guns that shoot fire! You understand what that means, right?"
N0S4A2 merely nods as way of response, closes their window, and picks up the speed, their headlights glaring brightly.
Samir is about to say something when he notices that the other Assamite driving the other car is getting boxed in by 2 large vans. He looks around, his eyes widening in fear, and then he notices 2 more large vans closing in from behind.
He slams his foot on the brakes and the SUV's tires screech. The vans speed ahead and 1 of them smashes into an electric pole. Samir floors the gas pedal and rams the other van from behind, causing it to lose control and tumble, but whoever's driving it rams the side of the SUV, causing it to drift off a bit.
Samir groans and tries to get the van off him, but it's too strong. He slams on the brakes, and the van comes to a screeching halt.
John hollers and dashes out of the car, "Samir, go--"
Before John can bolt off to be a roadside hero, Abdullah grasps his arm and says, "Wait, wait!" The Blood Sorcerer then conjures up some trustworthy sanguine spell of his and directs it to everyone in that van.
The sounds of bursting heads and bodies are heard from inside the van. All the occupants are dead, and the van lazily swerves off the road and hits a tree with a gentle thud.
John's eyes widen and he gawks in awe, "Dude...you're amazing! Holy shit! Thanks, Abdullah. Really, we--we don't know what we'd do without you, kid."
The Blood Sorcerer gives him an appreciative nod, and he sits back and winces as the cuts on his arms begin to close themselves.
Abdullah smiles tightly, "It was nothing, habibi, really."
It isn't long before N0S4A2 escorts the 2 vehicles to the intended location. Once there, the Unbound doesn't bother with any goodbyes or whatever. They take a turn and zoom off into the night, leaving a trail of dust in their speedy wake.
John shakes his head at this, "Pfft, well at least they came through at our hour of need. Ah, well..."
He gets out of the SUV and the other Assamites quickly jump out of their van and start to look around. There's a large, gaping tunnel in front of them. The concrete walls around are covered in graffiti, flyers for events long past, and other random bits of urban street art.
Zeina gets out of the vehicle and starts sniffing the air. She grimaces and gags at the pungent odor of the nearby sewer system. Samir hops off, rolls his shoulders, and pops his neck with a tight pop.
Svetlana steps out and looks behind her. She gulps deeply as she notices a vague shimmer in the distance. A vague, ghostly shimmer. Muffled giggling sounds follow soon after. Little Chloe's Wraith is swooshing nearby, laughing and chortling.
John senses something is off his eyes widen. He looks up and around and then his face scrunches up in concern. His brow furrows, and he says, "I can feel something..."
Abdullah steps out of the car and leans against it, a look of tiredness and exhaustion on his face. He closes his eyes and mutters under his breath, "I can feel it, too, habibi. It--It feels as if a thousand eyes are staring right at--at all of us."
A high-pitched cooing sound, like that from a dove (!), immediately catches the attention of the gathered Assassins. They swerve their heads around and 1 of them points up to the sky.
Svetlana shakily follows the pointed finger, "Look--look up!"
Everyone looks up and their jaws drop when they see a dove flying around and making cooing sounds. It coos and coos and flies figure eights around the entrance to the nearby tunnel.
John tilts his head and asks, "What the hell is going on here? A dove, the last time we saw--"
Realization dawns on Svetlana, "Dove. P--Prince Angela..." Her eyes glimmer with something resembling hope.
Apparently, the now-slain Prince of Dubai turned nearly every dove in her Domain into a Famulus (animal Blood-Bound to a Kindred). As a Gangrel, she had access to the Animalism Discipline, so that made things considerably easy to pull off.
It's only been mere weeks since her destruction. It's likely that most of the doves have either died or, somehow, managed to find their way all the way here.
The dove continues its (almost) clueless flight pattern, and it does eventually fall to the ground with a thud. Blood leaks from its hollow and beady eyes.
Svetlana kneels down and inspects the dead animal. With bloody tears rolling down her cheeks, she strokes it and swallows the lump of pain in her throat.
John puts his hand on her shoulder, "It was Prince Angela's trademark, wasn't it? The doves?"
Svetlana sniffles, "The Dove Prince...gone."
John comforts his Childe, "I know, Svetlana. I know. Now, c'mon, let's get outta here before--"
Too late, a fleet of vehicles, both SUVs and the like, come barreling towards the Assamites from the right. They park on the road, and the occupants pour out, weaponry at the ready.
Lt. Klein hops out of a passenger side and unholsters her pistol, "Blank bodies! There! Engage! Engage!"
The Assamites immediately bolt towards the dark and dingy maw of the sewer entrance. Abdullah, the last one to enter, casts a quick spell to delay the pursuers.
The Zionist forces open fire, and a hail of bullets come raining down on the fleeing Assamites. Garth the Nosferatu hurries over to the Assamites with a look of shock in his sickly eyes. His face is covered and his thawb looks like it's been stitched back up for the 100th time, which it likely has been.
"What the hell have you lot done?! You were supposed to kill them and bring us--"
John cuts off the Nossie, "We--we couldn't! We just couldn't. Look, we need help, man. They followed us here. We...we had no other choice; we don't know this damn city that well. And--and we were outta options."
Garth scoffs, "This is bloody mental! You've brought these maniacs straight to us! Couldn't you have at least shaken them off?"
John shakes his head and bends over. He has his hands cupped around his knees and he still looks a bit rattled from all the nasty sloshing in his bloodstream. He forces a few deep breaths out of his lungs.
He shakes his head and says, "We had to take their cars, and they track all their shit, so...yeah."
Garth grunts and hits a nearby wall in anger. Some bits of concrete and mortar fly off and land on the floor with a clatter. He lets out a growl and looks at the Assamites standing in front of him, huddled together, furtive, and vulnerable.
The Crawler clicks his tongue and looks at the approaching thugs, "Thomas is going to shank me for this..."
Zeina asks, "What do you intend to do with us, Crawler?"
Garth avoids making eye contact with any of his fellow Kindred, his gaze entirely focused on the hard and rough ground beneath his feet. He lets out a grunt, and he doesn't really answer her, so she speaks up again, "Answer me, please! They are coming and Abdullah's Blood Magic can only hold them off for so long!"
A few yells of pain echo throughout the tunnels as the SI thugs fall prey to whatever surprise the tired Blood Sorcerer left for them at the entrance.
Garth groans and declares, "You're coming with me, down into the sewers, our Domain. All of you. It's not like we 'ave much of a bloody choice, eh? Thomas is not going to be too pleased, I sure am not, but we've gotta do it, so let's bloody do it, right?"
John's eyes are still darting about, and his fingers are twitching, "The sewers, eh? I guess beggars can't be choosers. So, we stick close to you, correct?"
Garth firmly answers, "Yes, unless you WANT to get lost in the forks, nooks, and crannies of dark, smelly, and slimy tunnels that are only known to us Nosferatu like the backs of our oft-times twisted hands. Stay fucking close, don't wander, don't stray, and try to keep up."
A few SMG bullets whiz past and come in contact with the walls and the floor. They ricochet, and a few of the bullets lodge themselves in the bodies of some of the other Kindred. They grunt and curse their luck.
Garth sneers, "Shit. Tommy won't like me leading those arseholes down into our spaces. Someone must stay behind--"
John explodes and objects, "Fuck that! Either we all go or we all stay, but we are not splitting up! We stick together! If the plan is to run, then we do that together. If we're gonna fight, then we all do that together!"
Garth counters, "You don't understand, Assamite! If these Inquisitors even get an inkling of what's down in our sewers, there won't BE a Kindred Society in this bloody city anymore! This is bigger than all of us! It will be a shattering of the Masquerade!"
John scoffs, "Well, too fucking bad, cuz this is how it's gonna go, Garth. Either we all come with you or--"
Abdullah steps forward and gently pushes John aside, "I will stay and hold them off, habibi. Promise me that you will get them all to safety." There's grim determination on the young Blood Sorcerer's hollow face.
Garth is genuinely taken aback by this proposition, "What?! You? You--you're just a kid, mate! Why can't John or 1 of the others hang back--"
Abdullah lifts his chin, and a sense of resolve fills his dead eyes, "No. I am a Blood Sorcerer amongst my Clan. I...am the only one who can do this, who is--who is capable of holding these Zionists back long enough for you to escort my--my friends to safety."
John shakes his head vigorously, "NO! NO! Abdullah, no! They'll fucking overwhelm you and--"
Abdullah softly smiles, "I have made my peace with whatever comes my way, habibi. Do not fret. Now, go. Quickly. I will make sure you are all safe and sound. They will not follow you into your Domain, Crawler. Your secrets will remain safe."
This is Abdullah Rachman's final stand. He knows it. Tears of blood drip down his face, and he holds out his hand to Garth, "It was a pleasure making your acquaintance, Mr. Garth. I wish we could've gotten to know each other a little more."
Garth shakes his head and even his eyes well up with blood, "You can--can't do this, mate. Let someone else stay back and hold 'em off."
Abdullah plainly says, "The others have fought and struggled enough, habibi. I am the only one who is capable of this, and I will not allow more of my fellow Judges to meet Final Death on this night. Now, go. Quickly!"
John grabs Abdullah and tries to pull him away, but the young Blood Sorcerer stands firm.
John stops and cups the kid's cheeks with his hands, "You--you don't have to this, Abdullah! You still have SO MUCH to live for, so much to see, to experience--"
The Syrian kid points out, "For all my life- and Unlife- I have known only injustice. The Zionists destroyed my village, turned my family into refugees. Most of my extended family...they are all dead. Even before I came of age, I have borne witness to so much loss and trauma..."
He looks over his shoulder at the approaching thugs, who have been somewhat delayed by Abdullah's sanguine and sorcerous delaying tactics.
He looks back at the vampires in front of him, "When I turned 19, I made the choice to join the Blade of Haqim, to be Embraced into the Banu Haqim Clan. I did so, so that 1 night I might be able to Judge my enemies and bring about a better and more dignified world for all, Kindred or mortal--"
Svetlana pulls him in for a tight hug, red tears rolling down her face, "Abdullah! Please!"
John, Zeina, and a few of the others gather around the brave and selfless Blood Sorcerer from the Golan Heights. Abdullah's hands are outstretched and he's chanting under his breath.
John pulls him into a tight hug, the 2 embracing in a firm and cordial embrace, "You are an amazing, amazing person, Abdullah. Not just the best damn Blood Sorcerer I've ever met, but a--a friend, too. And--and I know the others here will tell you the same thing. So...thank you. Thank you."
Svetlana wipes her sanguine tears away and hugs him tightly, "Thank you, for saving me that evening...when John Embraced me."
"At first, I was not sure who John was Embracing, but you, Svetlana...you have proven to be 1 of us. The Judges, the Blade...they need someone like you, Svetlana. Someone who sees things with such clarity, someone who speaks her mind and does not abide injustice where it festers."
The scum are closing in, sending a few pot shots and rounds into the air, their bullets falling like horizontal rain.
Abdullah continues, "It has been an honor serving alongside you, and I wish--I wish I could have 'lived' long enough to see Syria again, but on nights such as these, I know not whether there will even be a Syria, let alone a better world..." he trails off.
The others have sanguine tears of sadness running down their faces as they all give the young Kindred a proper send-off. They hug and embrace him, telling him how much they appreciate him, how much they'll miss him, and how much he means to them.
"As-salamu alaykum, habibi."
"Wa alaykumu s-salam," Abdullah responds with a tight smile.
Garth's face is tear-streaked as well, "Mate...you don't 'ave to do this--"
Abdullah looks up at the other Assamites, then he turns towards Garth, "Please, habibi. Make sure they all get to safety. Guide them, watch over them, they have suffered through a lot- we all have."
A bullet grazes Garth's shin, and he grimaces at the painful impact. He looks down at the wound, then back up at the Sorcerer. He nods and begins ushering the remainder of the Assamites deeper into the tunnel, "If--If you're certain, mate."
John turns around and calls out, "I'll come back for you!!"
Abdullah faintly chuckles and shakes his head, "No, habibi. But...avenge me and the others. Judge all of these wretched Zionists. May your blades be coated in their blood from here to Damascus. Take that fury, that hunger and thirst for justice, throughout all the world, my friends!"
John turns around and gets 1 last look at his best buddy, his eyes filled with so much pain, grief, and heartache. He wants to scream, to shout, to slash and speed around, but he forces himself to stay calm, to not cry any more than he already has.
Abdullah Rachman, 19-years-old at the time of his Embrace, of the Blade of Haqim of the Banu Haqim Clan, originally from the Golan Heights in Syria, is truly 1 of the kindest, bravest, most noble, and selfless people John Suarez has had the pleasure of knowing.
And he will be dearly missed by all those whose Unlives he touched and/or saved.
Abdullah has effectively given up his Unlife to buy time, to make sure that his fellow Blade members flee to safety and get another chance to fight another night.
This is their moment to leave, to run, to get outta here and figure out what is to be done from here on out, because this just can't go on. There are simply not enough Blade members to keep fighting against the Unit 8211 threat.
No, something's gotta change. Other Kindred need to get involved in this battle.
John keeps looking behind him as he and the others run further into the tunnels, until Abdullah's figure disappears from sight. Then, he turns around and looks at Garth, his eyes still wet and full of tears, "WE HAVE TO GO BACK FOR HIM!"
Garth marches forward and puts a hand on John's shoulder, "Listen, you can't. You--you can't."
The Assamite's eyes widen, and he growls, "What are you saying, Garth?! WHY the fuck not?! What kind of secrets are you people protecting down there, huh?!"
Garth growls, "THAT, Assamite, is not any of your concern. Right now, you're going to shut up and follow me- stay close and DO NOT stray off. You do not wish to find yourself lost in these kinds of places."
John looks up at Garth, his eyes wild and uncomprehending, but he concedes to the Sewer Rat's firm instructions with a grunt and a nod.
The rest of the Assamites follow suit, their wounds slowly stitching together. They make sure to stay close to each other down in these manky sewers.
Abdullah gathers his composure and raises his chin high up. He brings to recollection every single aspect of Banu Haqim Blood Sorcery that was taught to him since his nights as a mere Fledgling, the memories from his time learning at the foot of his Sire, also a talented Blood Magician.
He recalls his training under the greats of The Clan of the Hunt. His hands shake, but not from fear, but from a deep sense of purpose and commitment.
He crouches down and draws a sigil of some kind with his dripping Blood. He smears a bit of it with his finger and a sharp, electric sensation rushes through his hand, all the way up his arm and into his very chest.
The Zionist thugs continue their approach, but they are hesitant to go deeper. Lt. Klein orders them to push forward, regardless, and the other Inquisitors, some of them wounded from the Sorcerer's spellcasting, reluctantly comply.
"No fucking night vision equipment. Grrrgfht!"
Garth leads the Assamites through a series of dark tunnels that branch out into many other tunnels, and it's difficult for the Assamites to keep track of their way, but Garth adeptly navigates this winding space like it's second nature to him.
He looks over his shoulder to make sure that everyone's following and that no one lags behind or strays off course.
They eventually come to a stop when the tunnels come to an abrupt end. To the left is a set of metal stairs, a ladder, both leading upwards. To the right is a large, steel door, which Garth immediately grabs the handle to.
He explains, "It looks a wee bit out of place, I know. We had it changed a month back- the other one was coming off its bloody hinges. Come along, now. Hurry along, you lot! No time for delays! Stay close!"
The Assamites look at each other, some of them confused, but they're desperate and eager to get the fuck outta here, so they follow the Sewer Rat deeper into this maze-like sewer system.
They come to a halt a bunch of old, dimly lit lightbulbs begin to flicker. The smell is awful, but vampires don't have working respiratory systems, so that's a huge plus when down in a nasty place like this.
The walls are patchy and grimy and all kinds of unmentionables float in the stagnant water on the ground. A huge rat scurries about, and John watches as it crawls across the floor and burrows into the nearby wall. It struggles to fit its huge body through the tiny crack, and it ultimately fails.
Samir takes a whiff, and he grimaces at the horrid smell, "Eugh!"
Garth snickers, "Mate, don't do that. Believe me, it's not worth it."
Abdullah seeks cover, crouches down, and casts another spell, the sanguine magic flowing freely from the wounds on his palms. He murmurs a few words in his native tongue.
The Zionist operatives are right around the corner, but they're trying their best to be silent. They immediately feel their weapons smoke and sizzle, and they immediately know something's not right.
A few Inquisitors cautiously round the corner and their weapons immediately explode, sending them flying with shards and other bits lodged into their faces.
"YAAAAAAA!" someone cries out as their face boils and sizzles after a shotgun goes BOOM! and burns their face clean off.
Another operative's skin bubbles, and the veins on his face pop and spurt blood. He screams and falls to the ground, the others having to take cover behind the corner.
They wildly fire in whatever direction they think their foes are, the bullets pinging and clanking off the walls and the ceiling.
Abdullah conjures up some of that trusty red mist, albeit in a less "potent" form. He directs it towards the Inquisitors and, as soon as it comes into contact with their feet, it stops them dead in their tracks.
They're stuck in a horrible nightmare that manifests as an illusion. The ground under them opens up and hands, so many grasping hands, reach up and grab the operatives' ankles, yanking them down into the ground.
Some of them are dragged down to their knees, and a few are hoisted all the way down to their chests. They begin to shoot, some of their shots hitting their teammates and turning them into a bloodied mess.
Heh, friendly fire.
Others keep firing, their bullets piercing through the illusions, only for the Inquisitors to see a dead body or 2 where there should be 0.
"She's down! She's down! MEDEVAC! I need a MEDEVAC!"
Abdullah groans, his hands shaking, and his legs feel like they're about to buckle. Regardless, he persists and channels as much of his Vitae as he possibly can into his sanguine spell castings.
An operator falls back and hisses into her earpiece, "Lt. Klein, Lt. Klein?! Come in, Lt. Klein? Does anybody copy?!"
Lt. Klein's voice comes crackling into the operator's earpiece, "I'm here! What is it?"
The operative, her eyes wide, replies, "They're here! I repeat, they are still in here, deep inside! We're being assaulted by--by something! Something is in here, with us! Some of us are KIA. We need backup! We need MEDEVAC!"
Lt. Klein scoffs and orders the operator, "Understood. Press your advantage and push forward. What happened to the flamethrower units?"
"THEY'RE ALL FUCKING DEAD! I--I REPEAT! THEY'RE ALL FUCKING DEAD!"
Lt. Klein clicks her tongue at this. She grabs a wooden stake, reloads her pistol, motions for a few of her troops to follow, and they advance, their eyes scanning the darkness in front of them.
A loud clunk is heard, and they slowly and cautiously peer around the corner to see trails of blood on the floor. 1 of the thugs crouches down and runs his fingers through the blood, his brow furrowing.
Lt. Klein, her gun held tight, looks down at him and shouts, "What are you doing, soldier?!"
The soldier in question gasps and wheezes as he collapses to the ground and begins frothing at the mouth. He then starts foaming at the ears, and he screams in a shrill and distorted voice as blood starts to pour out of his mouth, ears, nose, eyes, and everywhere.
He convulses and shakes and jerks around before going still. The others watch, their eyes wide with terror.
Lt. Klein quickly aims her pistol at his head and squeezes the trigger without second thought, a grim look painted on her face. The other operatives are all unnerved by what they just witnessed and are hesitant to push forward, so they keep their distance.
Svetlana looks over her shoulder and asks Garth, "How much longer??"
The Nossie pushes a door open, slinks across the threshold, and motions for the others to follow. He walks down a series of corridors, eventually coming across a large, rusty metal door.
He grips the handle, and it groans and squeals. He turns to Svetlana and answers, "Not long now, love. Just stay close, I'm not doing bloody reruns, OK?"
The Nossie pushes the door open and leads the others through. They follow him further into the sewer system. The air here is thick and smells of what it smells like. It's pretty dark, too, so their eyes have a hard time adjusting.
Abdullah draws more bloody sigils and signs on the ground. He can feel his Beast rousing within him, demanding to be sated, but he groans and ignores it. He can't afford to give in just yet.
He tries to conjure up some sharp Vitae projectiles, but they only solidify for a few seconds before going back to their usual gelatinous state. He growls under his breath and tries to force the blood to solidify into tiny throwing knives, but he fails.
His knees wobble and he stumbles forward. A goon catches sight of him and unloads a few bullets into the wall, their ricochets and stray shots piercing the illusions and the walls.
A few more Zionists pour into the tunnels, but a loud, blood-curdling shriek is heard from the depths of the tunnels. Abdullah knows that he can't go any further, lest he leads his enemies to the others.
He takes a few steps back and his head is thrown back as he roars at the top of his lungs, fangs fully out.
1 of the operatives, a female, shouts, "What was that?!"
Lt. Klein advances forward with dry and menacing determination, "We will find out soon enough. Get someone to clear these bodies out of here."
She keeps her gun trained on the general area where the shriek was heard, and she and the others cautiously proceed forward, guns ready. A few operatives stand by to fulfill her orders and begin with the thankless task of cleaning up (and covering up) the dead bodies and general mess.
Abdullah conjures more red mist, but its power and effect weaken with every casting, and the Zionists begin to get closer.
Lt. Klein and her squad, about 10-strong, turn a corner and a dark shape emerges. It's big and tall and bulky, and it's completely covered in blood. They begin to open fire, a mixture of SMG rounds and whitey-p hitting the shimmering and shifting "target".
Lt. Klein shouts, "Ceasefire! Ceasefire!" She puts her hands on the weapons of the nearby operatives and cautiously steps forward.
The shape flickers and blinks, rapidly, in and out of visibility. Lt. Klein's eyes widen, and she punches her fist right through this conjured illusion. It dissipates and she warns her troops, "Hold your fire!"
The shape grows brighter and disintegrates into nothingness with a fizzing sound.
Abdullah tries, with all his fleeting might, to conjure up a lethal spell that might be able to kill the Lieutenant, but he keeps coming up short.
The thugs look around and cautiously advance forward, their guns aimed. Lt. Klein is the first to see something shuffling around.
"Who's there?! I said show yourself!" She readies her wooden stake and makes a few tactical hand gestures to her team. They quickly surround the area and keep their guns trained on whatever it is that's lurking in the darkness.
"I will find you! I will hunt you down and make you pay! I will do the same to your friends, you worthless blank body terrorist."
Abdullah has his back pressed against a wall. He gulps deeply and shuts his eyes, trying not to cry blood or get too scared by Lt. Hilda's threats.
Lt. Klein hollers, "I have killed many of your kind in Ramallah before. I wear their rotten teeth- their fangs- as a trophy! I look forward to adding yours to my collection."
Abdullah peeks out and sees her face, contorted by her monstrous (one might say genocidal) bloodlust and her loathing towards the enemy. He catches a glimpse of the fangs necklace she wears, and he can't help but gasp- there's about a dozen extracted Kindred fangs, all belonging to various Kindred from Ramallah, hanging off that black string.
His eyes widen at this, and he quickly gets back into cover.