Chapter Seven: Money, Murder, Money, Murder, Magnolias
"Violence is as American as cherry pie." -H. Rap Brown
The sun rises over this Northwestern metropolis. The vampires begin to be taken into the welcoming throes of the day-sleep. The rays of the sun beat down on the city and give it some color. A great many of the Kindred have spent the whole night awake and active.
And now, they..."rest". Their Unliving forms undergo a process of rejuvenation during this "day-sleep", an occurrence that has since become so second nature to them.
(But Fledglings do take time to adjust).
Eddie's family is...distraught. His grandmother wails when she sees what is left of her grandson now in the city's cold morgue. His grandfather paces back and forth and screams at the top of his lungs, demanding that the entire police force go out there and catch the sick bastard responsible for Ed's demise.
But the MCPD won't do jackshit. It would be a "waste of resources and police time". Besides, they're dealing with another incident right now. A narcotics incident, and there's plenty of opportunities to bust skulls, take bribes, or do drugs when off duty.
They are, after all, cops. AKA pigs. AKA bastards.
Head Detective Graham Parsons is assigned to the case only as a perfunctory formality. He finishes his sandwich and half-heartedly reads through the case file while pacing around the cordoned off area. A jogger found the body last night, shrieked, and called it in.
Cops stand guard behind yellow crime scene tape to keep the gawkers and reporters at bay. On this Thursday morning, it seems like the murder of Eddie Rivera-Torres is on everyone's lips. But they can only speculate about it so much.
The police remain tight-lipped and say that the killer (or killers) is being actively pursued. They all "hope for the best" while ensuring that no effort shall be made to even look for the bastard. No time. No energy. Nothing.
(It's pretty damn obvious why such a nonchalant attitude exists in the Magnolia City Police Department).
A car mechanic from Puerto Rico isn't exactly a high-profile victim in the eyes of those who are tasked and charged with enforcing capitalist property relations.
To the pigs, the case is yet another tragic but mundane incident. Maybe some hobo or vagrant did it? That seems to be the dominant narrative in lieu of solid facts. Maybe the forces of law and order could twist this to suit their own nefarious ends?
Detective Parsons looks bored, if nothing else. He looks at his watch for umpteenth time and grumbles, "Why am I even here? They already took the vic's body away and gathered the evidence. It's not like there's any more to be done here."
He goes around to get witness statements and have his ears assaulted by the slew of cries, wails, and anguished sobs of the relatives who've come to see where their beloved was viciously taken from them.
"Do you know who did it, officer?" a young Hispanic boy with curly hair asks. His clothing is slightly crumpled, and he looks very tired. The teenager stares into Head Detective Graham's eyes with a mix of curiosity and resentment.
The Head Detective shoos him away, "Get outta here and head to school before I call Immigration on your ass. We're looking for the perpetrator as we speak. Now, scoot!"
He turns to face the other relatives and loudly proclaims, "Hey! And the same goes for all of you! Comprendre? In case some of you people don't know, this is America where we speak English! Vamos, vamos! Officer Bailey, please escort them off the premises. Thank you."
The uniformed cop nods and begins sending the family members away while mumbling words of false reassurance under his breath.
Head Detective Graham mumbles to himself, "I think I'm gonna have to call our friends at ICE. See if these...people are here legally. Officer Monroe, come here!"
"Sir?"
"Get the names of all of these...people and crosscheck 'em all with our databases- and I mean ALL of 'em. If there is so much as an uncrossed t in their fucking paperwork, I wanna know about it."
Officer Monroe nods, "Anything else, sir?"
"Nah. Just...stay strong, brother. Valhalla awaits us."
Officer Monroe looks around before faintly muttering, "Sieg Heil."
The Head Detective knowingly grins at this comment. He strides towards his car and gets inside. He cranks up the aircon, rolls up the windows, and throws his head back against the headrest. His eyes fall shut, and his breathing becomes steady and rhythmic.
A little later...
Lena awakens with a groan. A loud yawn escapes her lips as she does some quick stretches to loosen up her muscles. That dream of her being swallowed by an endless body of water came for her again. And like always, no drowning sensation.
There's a reason why she keeps her phone TURNED OFF when it's naptime. Much to her surprise, there are about a dozen missed calls from Toby when she turns it back on.
She tiredly clicks her tongue and dials her friend's number.
Toby is now walking away from the scene of Eddie's murder when his phone rings. He answers the call and as he continues walking along the sidewalk. He exasperatedly prods, "Lena, where the fuck were you? I've been trying to reach--"
Lena dryly answers, "There's a reason why I turn off my phone when I go to bed, Toby..."
Without skipping a beat, Toby reports, "Eddie's dead."
All the lingering bits of tiredness and sleepiness are banished in an instant. Lena's eyes widen in shock, and her heart starts racing in her chest. A small gasp comes out of her mouth, "Oh my god..."
Toby's eyes begin tearing up. He sniffs and echoes, "Eddies...dead."
Lena stammers, "Well, w--what happened? How??"
"Stabbed multiple times. Viciously. His family is...distraught. He--he was supposed to start pottery classes at MC Cubed today..."
"I know. I know. And we were supposed to go out for--for lunch today. Do you know...anything else?"
"Nope. Cops have already decided that it's the work of some vagrant, hobo, or junkie addict. But I dunno, Lena. Something about this just doesn't sit right with me."
Lena stifles a sigh, "Not this. Not now. It can't be connected, right?"
Toby grits his teeth, "C'mon, Lena, don't discount it! First, our friend- my best friend- comes across a sudden influx of cash and now he's found dead?!" He sounds pretty frustrated and close to blowing a gasket.
The PI blows a raspberry, "I have to get to work, Toby. At this point in time, I really don't know what either of us can do."
He pauses for a moment before nervously saying, "I'm helping the family with whatever they need. His grandparents...god, I've never seen so much raw emotion before. I'll keep you in the loop. I don't care if you're swarmed with work. W--when the funeral is gonna be held, you'll be there. Understand?"
Lena nods, "Mm-hmm. He--he was my friend, too, Toby. And I'm gonna miss him just as much as you are. So yes, I'll come to the funeral. Keep me updated, OK?"
Toby looks both ways before crossing and then inquires, "Lena? Uh--uh...can I maybe hire you to look into Ed's murder?"
Lena winces, "As it is, I've already got a murder case on my plate. I--I don't know if I could be able to handle another one at this time."
He lowers his head a little, "I understand. It was worth a shot, anyway. I should let you get ready for--for work. Bye."
She concurs, "Yeah, I guess. Hmm. Bye." With that, she hangs up and slumps into her bed. Her mind is racing with a thousand thoughts, all of which center around the brutal murder of Eddie Rivera-Torres.
"Who could've wanted to hurt him? Why? Was it--was it connected to all that cash he recently got?"
When the answers don't quite "click" or make themselves apparent, she exhales sharply and gets off the bed. Shower is relatively brief. As for breakfast, she has a few slices of bread and jam- peanut butter's out. Lena makes herself a large cup of coffee and guzzles it down.
She eyes her refrigerator door with some indifference. From there, she prepares to walk to Crystal Street Station and patiently wait for the train to arrive. The ticket counter has been completely wiped down and disinfected, so it looks all nice and shiny.
The atmosphere around here has gotten much lighter than before.
While waiting, Lena flicks her makeup compact open and checks that her makeup is still holding up. The purple eye shadow still looks radiant and stunning, as does the dark red lipstick. Her concealer also holds up pretty well.
As she takes a vacant seat on the train, her thoughts flash back to happier times with Eddie. Of him smiling at her and Tobes. Of the three of them laughing together, taking pictures, and walking through the streets of Magnolia City.
She checks in at her workplace. As usual, she makes herself a fresh cup of coffee and dives straight into her work. As the hours roll on by, Toby shoots her a text.
It reads: "Boys @ the garage quite shaken. atmosphere here is...tense. cops came by, treated US like suspects, implied that it was 1 of us who had something to do with Ed's murder. ISTG, these fucking cops. sometimes, lena, I wonder how ppl can even STAND them."
She sips her third cup of coffee and sees another text coming in: "MCPD just left. told us not to leave town. I'm swinging by Ed's place to see how the fam's holding up. Grieving. Going through emotional pain, no doubt. Be back later."
Lena acknowledges the messages with a thumbs up emoji and gets herself another cup of coffee while filing some important papers away. Some of her co-workers in this building have taken on more than they can chew and it clearly shows. She certainly does not envy them at all.
During lunchtime, Lena calls up her mother and breaks the news to her about Eddie. There's a noticeable tinge of grief and regret in her voice when she speaks about him.
Susie replies, "Oh, sweetie. I'm so sorry. Eddie was the one we did the FaceTime thing with, right?"
Lena scoops up a spoonful of rice and declares, "Mm-hmm. That would be him, yep. Nothing on the news about it, which is...odd. You'd think that a murder as grisly as this would get more attention than the usual stuff."
Susie concurs, "Yeah, you know how it is, sweetie. I just spoke to your brother. He seems happy in Japan."
"Then, I'm happy for him, too. Mom?"
"Hmm?"
"You and dad aren't angry at me for not exactly gelling with Japan, right? I mean, don't get me wrong, I kinda enjoyed the trip we took when I was really little and all, but...I never felt 'at home' there."
Her mother softly assures, "We're not angry at you for not feeling like you fit in there."
Lena mixes around the contents of her bowl and admits, "Well, truth be told, sometimes I don't even feel like I truly belong here in the States, either. Some days, it feels like this isn't where I'm supposed to be."
Susie's expression saddens a bit, "I'm truly sorry to hear that. Why--why haven't you ever told me this before?"
Lena chews on her food, swallows, and answers, "Because I wanted to just bottle it up and put it all aside. I guess I must've gotten that from dad, huh?"
Susie snorts a bit, "That and his work ethic. He's...doing OK, all things considered. Speak to Roland sometime soon, hmm? Anything else on your mind, sweetie? How's the whole PI thing going?"
"Work is work, but I can't complain too much. I got a few cases and...I'm not exactly comfortable sharing them with you. You know how it is, mom. It's nothing personal. I just have to maintain my professionalism and...well, keep certain things confidential."
Susie murmurs, "Ah. I understand. Of course. Are you gonna look into your friend's death or leave it in the 'capable' hands of the cops?"
The snoop scoffs, "Fuck the cops. But I can't exactly take on more than one murder case at this time. And the one I already got is puzzling enough as it is. Plus, it'd be highly improper to take on Ed's murder case while being hired by someone else."
Mother dearest puts in, "And it's your first murder case, so you might want to take things slowly. Be patient, hmm? Be diligent and--and find whoever's responsible and bring 'em to justice- I know you've got it in you."
Lena pokes the rice and mutters, "I hope so, too, mom. I hope so, too." With that, she ends the call and quietly eats the rest of her food. It's a different day here in Magnolia City.
People are moving faster, the mood is slightly tense, and the cops are acting extra aggressive. Some cars can be seen driving erratically and having issues with braking or stopping.
A few bike couriers are seen pacing around in front of the building where Lena works at. Many of them look impatient and seem to be getting rather angry with each other.
The rays of the sun are slightly dimmed by some clouds as the late afternoon sets in. Gary the bossman walks by Lena a couple of times but doesn't say much. He very much keeps to himself and ignores all the goings-on around him.
As if on cue, Toby calls up Lena just as the clock strikes four forty-five. Lena puts on her duffel coat and flatly answers, "Hmm?"
Toby informs her, "Yeah, the funeral's tonight. The family wants to get it over with. I know that it's short notice and all, but it's probably better this way. They just got Ed's remains back from the coroner's office."
(The medical examiner performed a quick autopsy on the mangled remains and came to the conclusion that this was the work of a very strong person- the vicious of the stab wounds is quite indicative of that).
Lena quietly heads for the subway station and asks, "OK. What time?"
"Six forty-five at the Elmwood Cemetery. They released the body quite quickly- that alone should tell ya that they're not too serious about catching Eddie's killer."
"Yep. No shocker there. I'll be there, don't worry. I'll head home, freshen up, and change into something more...appropriate."
Toby sounds very sad when he sighs, "Thank you. Thank you so much, Lena." He sounds so distraught and broken right now. But with his best friend gone, he needs all the support he can get.
Lena promises, "Don't worry, I'll be there, OK? I kinda get why his family wants to get the burial over and done with."
"Uh-huh. They don't wanna wait. And they sure as hell don't want the media prying into their business. By the way, plenty of reporters were camped out in front of Ed's house. It was a shitshow, Lena."
She blows a raspberry, "With cops everywhere."
"Yeah, they were pestering the family with the usual questions related to their paperwork, immigration status, blah blah blah. Just par for the course around here, I guess."
"Sadly, it seems to be. And Toby? How are you holding up?"
His voice cracks, "I'm--I'm a mess, Lena. I dunno how I'm gonna even get outta bed tomorrow. Eddie was--was my best friend in the whole wide world. To--to see an innocent and vibrant life snuffed out so cruelly...it's fucking awful!"
Toby's piercing sobs can be heard on the other end of the line. Lena feels a few tears rolling down her cheeks as well. She wants to say something but isn't quite sure what to say in this situation. The moment goes on and on for several seconds until she musters up the courage to speak.
"Shh, shh," she gently comforts, "We're all gonna miss him so much. You, me, his family, everyone at the garage. He'll never be forgotten. I--I can't guarantee that they'll catch whoever did this, but...all we can do is hope for the best, right?"
Toby sniffles, "I--I guess you're right, Lena. Please just make sure that you're there. I don't care about whatever else you've got going on- cancel them, put 'em on hold, or reschedule. I--I need your support."
Lena concurs, "I know. And I promise to be there."
He tells her, "And make sure your breath doesn't smell like coffee."
She wipes the tears away and feebly laughs, "Uh, sure. I'll see you soon."
"Right. Yup. See you."
The call ends just as the train hisses to a stop. The air smells a bit stale, and it looks like some of the other commuters are having issues with their phones. A few people mumble some expletives under their breath and shake their heads.
Others futz around with their musical instruments or wistfully stare at their feet. Some others merely wear earphones and shut the world out. A few just give up on trying to fix the problem and storm out of the subway car.
It seems that Lena isn't the only one who's having tech issues today. The Wi-Fi at her workplace was acting all kinds of wonky today, too. Not only that, but the computers were running slow as molasses, and there were several odd glitches here and there.
In good time, Lena Adams gets home and starts to get undressed. She stands under the shower as the warm water washes away all of the accumulated stresses and woes of the day. Her nude form reflects in the mirror after she finishes brushing her teeth.
The stench of caffeine has been exiled from her breath- until she decides to help herself to another cup of joe.
When it comes to selecting an outfit, she elects to go for something muted and black in color. An ankle-length dress, matching pumps, and hair done up in a bun with some strands hanging loose. All this in conjunction with a bit of makeup- mainly foundation and some nude lipstick.
She dusts off her pair of sunglasses and makes sure that the beads wrapped around her wrist are still there. Lena steps outside into the cool night air. The sun is almost about to set as she makes her way over to the Elmwood Cemetery.
A simple necklace with a fake ruby hangs from her neck. She puts her hands in the pockets of her dark coat and slowly but surely makes her way towards the cemetery.
Elmwood Cemetery has quite a large collection of tall trees and memorial sculptures with some pretty nice paths and roads that wind throughout it. It's not a very far walk from where she lives, so Lena takes her time.
But she doesn't wanna be late, so she picks up the walking pace by a notch. Ms. Adams promised her friend that she'd be there, and she may be many things, but she always tries her damnedest to keep her promises.
She makes a slight detour and stops at a small flower shop just a block away from the cemetery. It's quite humid on the inside, so she wipes away some beads of sweat that are forming on her forehead. It's best not to show up empty-handed, so Lena buys some signature magnolias and has them all bundled up nicely.
The skies begin to darken as she continues walking along. A slight draft of cold air whips by and messes up her hair a little. Low growls can be heard emanating from a few random corners as she gets closer and closer to the cemetery.
The streetlamps erratically flicker a bit, too. This, in turn, forces Lena to slow down a bit and pay more attention to where she's headed.
But the wails and sobs clearly indicate that she's close to her destination. She stumbles upon a large group of mourners all wearing black. Many of them are Hispanic, and some even appear to be related to Eddie's immediate family.
The boys from the garage are present, with Toby now wearing a bulky suit that awkwardly fits his frame. He spots Lena and nervously approaches her. His eyes are bleary and red from all the crying he's been doing.
Toby seems really relieved when he sees Lena show up. He pulls in her for a slight hug and points to where all the flowers have already been laid out. There's a bright spotlight shining on Eddie's casket as people begin making their way towards it.
Eddie's picture (a closeup taken in a studio a few years back) is mounted on an easel right next to the closed coffin. A couple of prayer candles can also be seen on the ground next to a bouquet of white roses and drawings made by children who knew Eddie.
Lena quietly crouches down and sets the magnolias right next to the other flower arrangements. She takes a deep breath and shuts her eyes for a moment.
She softly says, "I'm so sorry, Eddie. R--rest easy, OK? You'll never be forgotten. Never." With that, she rises to her feet and moves towards the front of the group.
Soft murmurs and distressed wails can be heard coming from all directions. Eddie's grandfather tries to present a brave face but looks like he's on the verge of breaking down and weeping uncontrollably. His grandmother is seated and looks utterly exhausted, broken, and devastated.
As a small child, Eddie was sent away from Puerto Rico by his parents for a better life- or a semblance of such. Even at a young age, he was fascinated by all things mechanical- engines, turbines, motors, and whatnot.
He developed a special bond with his grandparents as he grew older and became very good friends with Toby- they knew each other long before Toby even transitioned.
The mourners and other attendees begin walking towards the nearby cathedral, which is made of limestone. Tall spires reach into the skies, and the stained-glass windows have varying religious images and symbols displayed on them.
Shade trees and some large bushes can be seen scattered throughout the cathedral's grounds. Leaves crunch when trampled upon. Somber music wafts through the air as the people enter the cathedral.
Lena takes her place in the second-to-first row, with Toby and a few others right next to her. She feels a tad awkward being seated up near the front, but she casts aside such thoughts for the time being.
Eulogies and short remembrance speeches are given by various people who knew Eddie. They mostly speak about how kind and helpful he was to others and how much of a blessing it was to have a mechanic of his skill, experience, and expertise around.
(Some are in Spanish and some delivered in English).
When it's Toby's turn, he straightens his tie out and stiffly makes his way to the front. The teary-eyed attendees look at him, and then he begins speaking.
He clears his throat and starts, "My--my name's Toby Fetscher. Me and Eddie go way back. I uh...used to work with him at the garage. What c--can I say that hasn't already been said about my--my best friend in the world?"
He pauses for a few seconds and sniffs, "He always had a cheerful, gentle, and giving demeanor, despite being a bit self-conscious of his appearance. He was due to start pottery classes at the Magnolia City Community College today."
Tobes looks at Lena and notes, "And--and he was supposed to take us- me and Lena Adams over there- out for lunch t--today. We're gonna miss him. All of us are gonna miss him. He'll always be with us, and he--he will always be remembered. If--if it isn't too much of an inconvenience, I'd like to take a few more moments to speak about him?"
Nodding heads and soft murmurs of assent permeate the air. Toby wipes his tears away with a tissue and begins talking about a few things that Ed was really into, such as mechanics, pottery, and other such hobbies.
But Toby also speaks about some of the more personal stuff- without making it all about himself, instead rightly choosing to focus on Eddie. This is met by a few muffled sobs from the crowd.
Does a cruel monster like Amos even understand the damage that he has wrought in the pursuit of his goals? Does he comprehend the consequences of his vile, violent, and utterly vicious deeds?
But see, with such creatures, the cruelty IS very much the point.
Toby nervously ends his eulogy by stating, "An innocent life was snuffed out. We--we may never know what kind of sick people are responsible for this. But what we can do is--is look at the people we care about and make sure that they're safe. T--thank you."
He bows his head and returns to his seat. Some people lightly clap while others look down at the floor and cry their eyes out.
Lena reassuringly squeezes his shoulder and gives him a slight nod, "You did good, Toby. You did good. That was heartfelt and authentic."
A small, sad smile appears on his face.
This is far from the only funeral occurring (or scheduled to occur) at the Elmwood Cemetery. Lena's eyebrows shoot up in shock when she spots another cluster of mourners slowly trudging towards a separate burial plot.
She whispers to herself, "What--what the hell is going on in this city??"
Indeed? What is going on in this Domain?
The funeral soon wraps up. Lena casted a clump of sand into the grave before following the others out of the cathedral. The sun has long since set by now, and the night sky is filled with countless stars.
Toby tells Lena, "I think I--I'm gonna take that pottery class at MC cubed in honor of him. He...was always interested in that stuff, y'know? Even though I'm not a--a creative person or anything, I still wanna do it. For him. F--for Eddie."
Lena presses her lips into a thin line and nods, "If that's what you wanna do, then go ahead. And what about work? Are you in any shape to keep going to the garage?"
Toby weakly answers, "Yeah. I mean, I have to. Just like you have to work. If ya don't do it, then you're out on your ass."
She chuckles a bit, "Hmm. Yeah. If you need anything, call me. OK? I can't make any promises, but I'll try my best to come and help you if I can."
Toby sniffs, "I will. And thank you- so much- for being here. I hope that I didn't needlessly put you in the spot by calling your name when I was--"
Ms. Adams interjects, "It's no issue, Toby. You're one of the few people that I can actually call a real friend. My phone's on when I'm awake, but when I'm out working an important case or sleeping, then it's off. Either way, I won't be angry at you for contacting me about anything."
"Hm. T--thanks. You're a PI. In your experience, do you think that the bastard who murdered Eddie is gonna strike again? Or will they turn themselves in?"
Lena sighs, "I dunno. I--I really can't give you a straight answer on this, Toby. This is not exactly my area of expertise. As it is, I'm already trying my best to unravel the mysteries of the first-ever murder case that I'm handling. And it's already proving to be difficult enough."
He looks at her, "I get it. You need a ride home?"
"I'll walk."
"Heh. Of course. Be--be careful out there, OK?"
"I'd tell you the exact same thing...Tobes."
They smile at each other before hugging and parting ways. Eddie's family, friends, and acquaintances all split up and drive away. Some take the buses or the subway, while others hail cabs to their destinations.
Later that same night...
The "Batcave" under O'Rory's Tavern is once again being readied for tonight's secretive Kindred meeting. The air in this cavernous chamber is quite cold and smells of must, damp, and old stone. Until the renovations are completed at Elysium, this space shall be the place where the Kindred of the Court can gather.
Like always, Sheriff Marshall Fairfield is the first one present. He's grumbling and complaining while tossing random bits of debris and other assorted junk into a large garbage bag.
"Goddammit, is a little decency too much to ask from some people?!" he growls while kicking some more junk around.
He is dressed in a hoodie jacket, jeans, and brown leather shoes. Some bracelets and other lucky trinkets adorn his wrists and hands.
A couple of seconds later, a few more Nosferatu members begin showing up. Otto the Primogen towers tall above the rest of his fellow Nossies who either cover their hideous visages or are just too young or inexperienced to be able to pull it off.
They hobble to the folding metal chairs and sit down in an orderly fashion. Otto has his arms crossed and is staring off into the distance.
Mr. Weinbauer dryly acknowledges the Sheriff, "Sheriff Marshall. Sorry about the mess. You know how unruly and unsophisticated some of us can be. But I've been told that times are tough."
The Salubri Sheriff grunts and tosses a few more junk items into the garbage bag. He's kind of in a foul mood tonight.
Vincenzo- Primogen of the Hecata Clan- comes down the stairs. The Necromancer is clad in a faded waistcoat, mismatching pleated pants, and a checkered shirt. His shoes are scuffed and the socks are somewhat mismatched as well.
He bows his head and greets everyone before taking his seat near the front. Francesca, his Whip, comes in after a few seconds. She takes her seat right next to him.
Ms. Livroni is dressed in a red gown and clutches her Gucci handbag. Her shoes are black, and her nails are manicured and painted in a dark shade of red. She elegantly folds one leg over the other and patiently waits for everyone else to arrive.
Laurence Lancaster enters through the secret entrance after some of his fellow Nossies help move the grate aside. His three-piece suit somehow looks unscathed and immaculate.
The Whip glowers at everybody before taking the seat behind his Primogen.
It's slowly shaping up to be a full house tonight.
Prince Cedric Montgomery's legs take him down the metal staircase. His sharp attire consists of a dark blazer, matching pants, and a pair of black loafers. His long dreadlocks are tied back.
The third eye atop his forehead looks a little bloodshot tonight. Upon the Sheriff's orders, everybody present rises when the rightful ruler of the Domain walks past them and onto the elevated platform.
Prince Cedric raises a finger, and the assembled vamps sit themselves back down. He himself takes the middle seat and wiggles himself around a bit.
He is greeted with a few sighs and coughs.
Sheriff Marshall approaches the Prince and asks his fellow Salubri, "Where's Rosalind? She's usually early for these kinds of meetings. What's the hold up?"
Prince Cedric answers, "The hold up is that she's checking on how the renovations at Elysium are going. It'll be another few weeks 'fore the place is finished. We want it to be all nice, neat, and tidy. Not...dirty, messy, or cramped."
"Or full of fucking mold," Sheriff Marshall mutters under his breath.
The Prince merely chuckles at this comment.
After a few minutes wherein idle chatter is barely exchanged (but baleful glowers must certainly are), Seneschal Rosalind Meyer confidently saunters into the Batcave. Her clothing consists of an open plaid shirt with a gray t-shirt underneath and some black denims.
Her hair looks fresh, and she has some lipstick on her lips. Her third eye is a bit radiant and glowing as well. She gracefully smiles at everybody and takes her seat in the chair next to Prince Cedric.
The two lovers hold hands and stare into each other's many eyes for a bit before the meeting begins. Sheriff Marshall takes the third seat and stares at the Prince- and then everyone else.
The Salubri Sheriff declares, "Now that everyone has finally shown up, we can begin."
Laurence lifts a deformed finger, "Let's wait for Amos. We're not starting without him, are we? Give it a few more minutes."
Otto grumbles, "I wouldn't be too surprised if he didn't show up. That guy...he's got issues. Although, I wouldn't necessarily say it to his face. Or maybe I would. Who knows?"
Sheriff Marshall groans, "He doesn't even have a role in this Council! He's not a Primogen, he's not anybody's Whip, and he doesn't hold any valid territorial claims! But you know who does?!"
Prince Cedric places his hand on the Sheriff's knee and subtly shakes his head, "Marshall...enough. We'll get to that when the meeting officially starts. Laurence is right- let's give Mr. Greenberg a few more minutes."
Sheriff Marshall grumbles again, "If that asshole even shows up. Two minutes."
Seneschal Rosalind counters, "Make it five, Marshall..."
"Hmph. Fine."
Vincenzo states, "Three-and-a-half minutes. Meeting in the middle. Our Sheriff's a little on edge, I see. Care to tell us what is bothering you, mio amico (ITA: my friend)? Is it something that our Clan can help with?"
The Sheriff crosses his arms, "It's a complicated situation. And messy, too. We'll get around to it once the meeting starts...whenever that'll be."
The Nosferatu Primogen remarks, "Yeah. What's with the long face, anyway? Still no news on the Banu Haqim Primogen? Anyone? No?"
Shaking heads all around.
Out of deep concern, Seneschal Rosalind gently says, "We're all quite worried about this...development. But we'll get to it once everybody is present and accounted for. For what it's worth, no one from our side has anything to report on the Assamite Primogen's sudden...departure. Maybe we can help, or at the very least, discuss options for what's to come."
Prince Cedric notes, "I'll check in with Dr. George Fateh after we're done here. He's...afraid. I don't wanna get into the specifics, but he's...fine. A lotta his fellow Assamites are on edge. We're a bit more concerned than he is. Some have even gone so far as to leave the Domain for the time being."
Sheriff Marshall jerks his chin towards an approaching figure, "Not too hard to see why."
The figure in question is none other than Amos. The False Assamite wears a casual suit with the beige undershirt's topmost buttons undone. His earphones are jammed deep into his ears as he strides towards the backmost seat.
He ignores everyone and plops down on a folding chair, which creaks and groans under his weight.
Sheriff Marshall's expression hardens when he makes a "take out your earphones" motion with his fingers.
Amos glowers at him and then the rest of the Council before reluctantly removing said objects. He nods over to the trio of seated Salubri on their platform, "Yo, what's up? Great night, huh?"
Seneschal Rosalind gracefully stands up and takes a few steps forward. Her three eyes slowly survey the assembled Kindred before she asks, "Shall we begin? Is there anybody else that you're expecting tonight? Any invitees who are yet to show up? Ghouls, maybe?"
She reminds everyone, "Remember, these meetings are open to any and all of Caine's Childer."
There's a slight pause before Amos's annoying voice is heard, "Nope. Just us. C'mon, let's get started. I've got places to be tonight."
Sheriff Marshall is about to spring up from his seat when Prince Cedric snaps, "You know the rules, Marshall. Sit your ass down. Don't cause a scene. Understood?"
"Yes." Monotonous and flat.
"Good. Ros, let's begin."
The Seneschal takes on a more formal tone when she says, "As you're all aware, the recent events surrounding the disappearance of the Banu Haqim Primogen have the entire Domain concerned. Do any of you have any further updates on the whereabouts of the former Primogen? Rumors? Potential spots that we haven't been informed about? Anything?"
Vincenzo speaks up, "I'm not aware of anything, Seneschal. If needed, I could perhaps confer with the spirits. The restless dead see more than even the most seasoned users of Auspex. Perhaps he is hiding somewhere and has not yet been discovered. Or maybe that is precisely what he fears?"
Otto lifts his chin, "The sooner we get...brother Jamal back, the sooner he can get the rest of his fellow Assassins back into line. Like him, a lot of them have stopped showing up. If there's some infighting going on in the Domain, it could become a major problem. And if there's one thing that I don't like, it's disruptions and changes to the status quo."
Sheriff Marshall huffs, "Tell me about it. Hey, Amos! Have YOU seen or heard anything related to the disappearance of the Banu Haqim Primogen?"
Amos lifts a finger and reminds everybody, "I dunno what that is. There's no such thing as Banu Haqim. It's always been the Bnei Hashem. And...no, I dunno where this Jamal guy went to. Sorry." Insincerity and a mocking grin follow.
Prince Cedric interjects, "Sheriff, I think we've established the fact that we know next to nothing about brother Jamal's whereabouts. But we do know that he's been gone for several nights now. And I don't like no vacuums in my Court. There's a big ol' Primogen-shaped hole that's been left vacant for too damn long. If we don't figure out a way to fill that gap soon, then something bad could go down."
He adds, "And we don't want that. Especially not now. Not when the situation with the SI has been getting increasingly tense."
Seneschal Rosalind briefly clears her throat and casts a glance over her shoulder. Prince Cedric smiles and motions for her to speak her piece.
She solemnly says, "Before we can begin with our discussions, let us take a few moments to reflect on this past week. If possible, reflect upon every feeding that you took part in. Did any of you notice any differences? Ponder on this for a few moments. We will reconvene after this short intermission."
A silence now hands over the proceedings.
Many have their heads pensively lowered. Francesca thinks about how much Pain her Kiss had inflicted on the mortals whose blood is absolutely vital for her survival. Vincenzo is deep in thought. His fingers twitch and twirl as he mumbles something or the other in Italian.
Laurence clasps his deformed hands together and stares at his expensive shoes. Numerous thoughts flit through his mind's eye. Otto's mouth twists into a sneer. He's thinking about all the things that his Clan has been through since the start of the millennium.
Amos interlocks his fingers behind his head and slides down his folding chair a bit. He closes his eyes and smugly basks in all the psychotic things that he and Allison had done in the past week.
Sheriff Marshall is a bit conflicted. His third eye twitches as thoughts of the past flood back into his mind. He's wondering if his Sire- a man named Gerald- would be pleased or disappointed with what he's become on nights such as these.
Seneschal Rosalind looks at the hideous and twisted faces of the Nosferatu. Her expression softens a little. She thinks back to the circumstances surrounding her own Embrace. The way her third eye popped open, the pain she had endured, the things she had seen...
Prince Cedric's hand involuntarily goes to his back. He tries to feel around for the scars that have not quite faded away with the passage of time. There's a tinge of sadness on his face. Some sanguine tears fall from his eyes.
He winces and shudders when he recalls the whips lashing his back, the horrid names he had been called, the abuse that had been heaped on him since birth, and the foul institution that had justified and sustained all of this.
Seneschal Rosalind deeply senses her boyfriend's pain- even she can feel the whips shredding the skin. Her eyes widen, and she quickly walks over to him. She takes a knee in front of him, wipes the bloody tears away from his face, and hugs him close to her.
Their embrace is warm and comforting, and it fills them with some much-needed love and support. Sheriff Marshall rubs the Prince's back a few times, "It's OK, buddy. Those days...are over. We--we're all equal now. We're all free. Or that was supposed to be the plan, anyway."
Sensechal Rosalind looks up at Prince Cedric and silently reassures him. Their eyes meet in an intimate gaze. She whispers to him, "You are loved, Cedric. You are a free man. Your years of bondage and slavery are nothing but a mere memory now. A bad dream."
A particularly cruel memory of a particularly cruel white man inflicting pain upon the then-two-eyed Cedric flashes with visceral intensity. The Prince gasps and lurches forward as a pain surges through his whole Unliving body.
"AAAARGH!"
Seneschal Rosalind jumps back, "Cedric?! Ced?! Honey?!"
Sheriff Marshall springs up and helps his fellow Salubri back into his seat. Amos is gleefully paying attention to this drama unfolding in front of him.
Prince Cedric quickly regains his composure and assures them, "I'm alright, I'm alright. Just--just a bad...dream."
The Seneschal strokes the stained cheeks of her beloved, "That cruel man is now gone from this world. And you, my darling, are still here. Still here and...still free."
Francesca watches this and puts her hand on her chest. A look of concern washes over her, and she mutters, "My Prince, I...am so sorry for what you had to endure."
He simply tells her, "It was a cruel time back then. Don't worry about me, Fran. Just focus on reflecting on your own experiences and on the matters at hand."
Fran strokes her gloved left hand and forces a few deep breaths through her lifeless lungs. The Hecata Whip has endured the same kind of trauma as Prince Cedric. Certainly not nearly as bad as he had endured, but it was no walk in the park either.
As such, she can empathize with him.
Otto, for his part, is busy taking mental stock of his various earnings and other business-adjacent activities. His fingers twitch and his lips move as if he's mumbling to himself. Laurence feels the gears in his head turning as he hopes that this secret alliance with Amos will pay off.
Amos...well, he's...Amos. As far as that blockhead engages in even the most rudimentary form of introspection, anyway.
The other Kindred talk amongst themselves or shuffle on their seats. The meeting resumes after a few more moments of silence. There is a considerable shift in the mood amidst the assembled Kindred.
Seneschal Rosalind stands and announces, "If--if there's anybody who wishes to share their experiences, then please do so. But not everyone has to. This is purely optional. Would anyone...like to get something off their chest?"
Some of the Nossies snicker at how that could be interpreted. Sheriff Marshall sighs and glares at them. They immediately clam up and look down at the ground.
Seneschal Rosalind asks again, "Is there anyone who would like to speak their piece? Please raise a hand or say a word if you would like to share. Don't worry, we're not here to judge you. This...cave, for all intents and purposes, is now our Elysium- our safe space- until the renovations at the actual one are completed."
Otto and Laurence exchange a glance and then look away. Vincenzo is about to lift his hand, but he quickly decides against it. He clears his throat and wiggles a bit in his chair.
Francesca is also silent. She keeps tugging at the edge of her leather glove and glances over to the Prince.
Seneschal Rosalind continues, "Anyone?" The sparkle in her otherwise dead eyes slowly fades away when nobody seems to wanna open up.
Sheriff Marshall shakes his head, "Let's not waste time here. Ros? Ahem."
The Seneschal looks disappointed, but she quickly acquiesces and lets Prince Cedric take the lead. He nods and motions for her to sit down. He gives her a gentle peck on the cheek and whispers, "You did well, Ros. Don't worry. They'll open up. Maybe not soon, but one night, they'll have the courage to speak. And once they do, we'll be there to listen."
She puts in, "And to heal them."
"Yeah. That, too."
The Prince raises his chin and begins, "Greetings, everyone. Thank you for taking the time to attend tonight. I'm sure that y'all are busy, so I'll try to keep this as brief and concise as possible. But we still got a lotta important ground to cover tonight. So, y'all better get comfy...cuz this could drag on."
Amos groans and rolls his eyes. Otto shakes his head and stares into the distance. Laurence stifles a growl, as does Vincenzo. Francesca merely sets her hands on her lap and patiently looks on.
Prince Cedric's three eyes focus on the gathered Kindred, "Like I said earlier, we're here tonight to talk about certain...things. Important things, mind you. Err...let's see. First thing on the list is locating brother Jamal. Has anybody had any luck? If so, then I'd like to hear what you got."
Amos speaks up, "We already said our piece! If that poser ain't in the Domain, then maybe he's...somewhere else."
Sheriff Marshall's jaw tenses, "Are you trying to say something, Amos? Are you implying something here? We're all ears. But if you got nothing good to say, then kindly shut the fuck up!!"
Amos snickers, "Whoa. OK. Looks like I may've struck a nerve there, Sheriff. My bad." He then proceeds to fold his arms in a defiant manner and look away. A smirk plays across his pale face.
Prince Cedric regains control of the situation and repeats his open query, "Has anyone here seen or heard from the Assamite Primogen? Ain't nobody got anything for me? Nothing at all?"
A few seconds pass, but nobody got nothing to say.
The Prince mutters softly, "I'll have to have words with Dr. George...again. And this time, he better be givin' me a straight answer. OK, onto the next matter of business. It's already been decided, so this is just a formality with y'all. Ros, you wanna have the honors or should I?"
Seneschal Rosalind graciously stands up and says, "I'll handle it, babe."
She graciously saunters forward till she's standing right next to the Prince. She forces a few deep breaths and then clears her throat, "We intend to open our Domain to the Thin-Bloods--"
Murmurs and a few gasps erupt from the gathered bloodsuckers. Some more shocked and taken aback than others. All of the Nosferatu glare at the Salubri on the elevated platform.
Amos remains oddly composed amidst the growing chatter and confusion. He stares at the Salubri trio with a constant smirk.
Otto springs up and points a twisted finger at the city's rulers, "Have you lost your fucking minds?! You--you want us to help the Thin-Bloods now?! Might I ask what the reason is for--for this sudden bout of--of temerity?!" He flails his arms and stomps in place. His lips are curled back into a snarl.
Vincenzo, on the other hand, simply nods and remarks, "Ah. The Duskborn. I very much look forward to working with them. Their unique form of Alchemy should aid in our own research and...experiments. Don't you agree, cara?" He looks at his Whip.
Francesca blinks and stammers, "Erm...y--yes. I suppose so."
Prince Cedric points at the Hecata Primogen, "Oh, let's not get too ahead of ourselves just yet. The Thin-Bloods are welcome, but they gotta check that Alchemy shit at the door. This is still my Domain, after all. Err--our Domain. Sorry."
Seneschal Rosalind adds, "Yes. Our ban on such things remains fully in effect. The Mercurians have a place in this city- but their Redworking must be conducted elsewhere. Any...Alchemical experiments or such are expressly forbidden. Just like they've always been."
The initial enthusiasm that Vincenzo had now fades away, "Oh. I see. Hm. While I have my disagreements with these policies, you are the rightful rulers of this Domain, and our Clan defers to your judgment. So...I will simply have to work around these restrictions."
Prince Cedric tells the Necromancer, "There will be no 'working around these restrictions'. Find better ways to get shit done or leave this Domain and don't let the door hit your ass on the way out."
He then snaps his fingers and points at Otto, "The same goes for you."
Laurence grumbles, "As it is, the routes of the damn Blood Trade have been...compromised. Severely. We are still unable to find any suitable alternatives, but we're still trying to maintain our supply chains."
Francesca comments, "Sì. But our own Clan is managing just fine. There are plenty...in the scene who are suitable for our dietary needs. Killings- if they do happen- will be reported to Sheriff Marshall and duly investigated. As for the killer, we leave their eventual fate in the hands of our Sheriff."
Sheriff Marshall flashes a thumbs-up, "Yep, thanks. We're still working on expanding our reach and--and influence, I guess. Which actually neatly segues into our next item of discussion. Chief??"
Prince Cedric mentions, "Our alliance with the Anarchs of Las Estrellas is proceeding along nicely. Folk from our Clan have made many inroads with them, and they've been very cooperative. So far. Which is honestly surprising to see from a buncha Anarchs, but times are changin' and we better get our asses in gear and change along with 'em."
Seneschal Rosalind adds, "We are still keeping up our end of the bargain. We can only hope that Baron Zintoro keeps his word as well. In the meantime, I strongly suggest that we take every precaution necessary. As a sign of good faith, the Caitiff Baron has sent some of his muscle to help us get the Circulatory System back up and running again. We'll need it if we hope to maintain this alliance."
The Salubri Prince concurs, "Mm-hmm. Don't worry, y'all, these Anarchs are on our side. They got no beef with us. And y'all better not have any beef with 'em, ya dig?"
Nodding heads and mutters of assent all around.
Vincenzo lifts his chin and plainly asks, "And these Anarchs can be trusted? What Clan are they of? Or are they also Clanless like their beloved Baron? Disruptions notwithstanding, the sudden arrival of these...newcomers make me feel...uneasy. It makes also the spirits to feel uneasy, too. There is so much death and--and suffering in the Domain right now."
He strokes his neck and shakily resumes, "Just tonight, there were a few funerals at the Elmwood Cemetery. The spirts of the recently...departed are as restless as ever. It's like they're screaming out to me, and they want me to hear them, and--" His face twitches, and sanguine tears trickle down his cheeks.
Francesca reaches over and puts a comforting hand on his shoulder, "Vincenzo, shh. It's OK. You'll be OK. Just try to stay focused on the matters at hand, hmm? Do only what you can handle- we are all there to help you. You are not alone. Always remember that, sì?"
He puts his cold hand atop hers and smiles tightly. The words fail him, so he nods instead. Francesca rubs his shoulder a few times before letting go.
Sheriff Marshall speaks up and asks, "Speaking of, does anyone here have any new information regarding the string of grisly murders that have recently been plaguing the Domain? If there's anything that you know or suspect, then let us know. Please."
Amos (the man most responsible for said grisly murders) shuffles around in his seat and nonchalantly says, "Nah, Sheriff. Not a thing to report. I think it's time to get the hell outta here, don't you, Laurence?"
Prince Cedric firmly declares, "We're done when I say we're done; keep your ass glued to the chairs. And now I know that some of y'all STILL have objections to the shit that we flat-out ban in this Domain. I can FEEL the tension in the cave, y'know? But we have our reasons for banning that shit, so I don't want- or need- none of y'all getting on my case about it, ya dig?"
Sheriff Marshall glares at everyone, as if softly goading them into compliance with the word of the Prince, which according to Camarilla law (interpretations vary) is final.
Seneschal Rosalind takes the gentler road, "The things that are banned in this city can seem eyebrow raising at first, yes. We could debate the pros and cons of these bans, but the fact remains that they are still in place. And shall continue to be in place for as long as we remain in power. We hope that you understand that, and we apologize for any undue hardships that these bans have caused you."
Prince Cedric chuckles slowly, "Brother Jamal clearly understood why we had to clamp down on certain things that our kind can do. Just cuz you can doesn't mean that you should. And now, we're asking the rest of y'all to trust us just as brother Jamal did."
Amos murmurs, "All this Jamal talk is making me wanna yawn. I do actually have places to be, so--"
Sheriff Marshall glowers daggers at the False Assamite, "You're more than welcome to get the fuck out. Hell, I still have no goddamn clue WHAT YOU'RE EVEN DOING HERE!"
Laurence springs up and snaps at the Sheriff, "Now you watch that mouth of yours! Amos has been helping us with this mess just as much as any one of us here. He's extended every courtesy to you people, and this is how you repay him? He's made overtures to you, but you've chosen to ignore them! You ought to be ashamed of yourselves!!"
Amos merely smirks. This alliance with the Nossie Whip is already off to a great start.
The clueless Otto frowns a little, "OK, that was...heated. Exactly the kind of heated that we're all looking to avoid right now. Before all of this...racket, things were going swimmingly. Or as smooth as one can expect. Heh. I like the status quo; changing it isn't exactly in the interests of any of our Clans, Prince Cedric."
He gesticulates, "I'm sure that you can understand why. And you can also appreciate where I'm coming from, right? I mean, my Clan doesn't exactly thrive under these bans and restrictions. As it is, we're walking breaches of the Masquerade- just like you are."
Seneschal Rosalind points out, "Yes, but we both have ways to circumvent those limitations when walking among the mortals or when in a crowded, public venue. You know how it is, Otto. I myself do love hoodies and bandanas, haha!"
Otto snickers, "A little bit of magic mixed with the proper attitude is all that you need to fool mortals into not recognizing us and going all wide-eyed and slack jawed. Anyways, what I'm trying to say here is that there's no reason to rock the boat. Uh...don't upset the apple cart- it's been good so far. Let's not spoil it, hmm?"
Prince Cedric states, "We'll keep that in mind, Mr. Weinbauer. And thank you for your continued support and cooperation. We appreciate it. So...anything else anybody would like to add before we adjourn for the night? Information? Developments? Anything at all? C'mon, y'all, talk to us."
Some silence passes as everybody exchanges glances and ponders their next set of moves.
Francesca offers, "I am doing fine. Err...work is also going well. It is a much more flexible arrangement that I now have. A--all thanks to Vincenzo, of course. My gratitude is...well, I cannot say it enough. Grazie mille (ITA: A thousand thanks)."
Vincenzo simply bows his head, "Of course, cara. And as for me, I have been communing with the departed spirits of certain individuals. I have been writing their stories down, their last few moments- even though they may not be aware of it always. The dead are...complicated, to say the least."
Amos snarks, "Ain't we all. Hey, Italian lady! Yeah, you! What is it that you even do?? Like, I know what the rest of these folks do, but you're kinda like...uh..."
Francesca matter-of-factly answers, "I am a death consultant with the Orpheus Group. My NDA forbids me from disclosing more, as do the members of my Clan who are also in similar professions and positions. I can also say that I help people 'cross over', so to speak. Like any other Hecata, my relationship with the dead is...unique."
She adds, "We have many ways of dealing with the dead. Sometimes, we may be witness to their final moments before their souls cross the Shroud for good. Sometimes, we may offer counsel and solace to the grieving. Other times, we may have to...pacify the more restless spirits. Or help them find their way to their final destination."
Amos's face scrunches, "And what exactly would their final destination be?"
Fran tells him, "There is often more than one final destination for the souls. They might become Wraiths or they may simply rest in peace. Other choices may await them as well. The path of the Geist or the Mummy is also open to them. But there are some spirits that refuse to depart this world, even though they ought to."
The Hecata Primogen takes over, "Hmm. Yes. So, as you can imagine, Mr. Greenberg, we Necromancers are quite busy these nights. And you are welcome to assist us if you so choose."
Amos dismissively waves his hand, "Tch, yeah, not happening, buddy. I don't fuck around with spirits. And the dead should stay fuckin' dead!"
Fran remarks, "We ourselves- clinically, at least- are dead. While we appreciate that you do not mess around with spirits- which itself is a reductive term- I must point out that our respective Clans' relationship with death is complex and nuanced. For instance, you Banu Haqim--"
Woops.
Amos snarls, "It's Bnei Hashem, you pasta-brained Italian cunt! HOW MANY FUCKIN' TIMES DO WE GOTTA TELL YA?!!"
Sheriff Marshall has had enough. He stands up and ORDERS the False Assamite, "OK, now that's a line crossed! APOLOGIZE TO HER! NOW, you son of a bitch! APOLOGIZE!!"
Amos sneers, "Or what?"
Francesca keeps her cool. Vincenzo winces and averts his gaze, opting to just remain silent. Otto stares at the drama unfolding before him with mild disapproval. Laurence clicks his tongue and twirls his fingers a little.
Seneschal Rosalind and Prince Cedric exchange a glance.
She clears her throat, "Let's all calm down now. Mr. Greenberg, what you said to Ms. Livroni wasn't just racist. It was sexist. There was no need for such harsh language. Many of us here know- from our nights as mere Fledglings- of the Banu Haqim Clan. Granted, there may be a place for your...splinter faction and all, but that's for a later time."
Amos glares the Hecata Whip and half-heartedly mutters, "I'm sorry, lady."
"C'mon, do it with a little more feeling," Sheriff Marshall taunts.
Otto chuckles, "Just get it over with already...unlike you, Amos...Francesca holds a position in the Prince's Court. Therefore, respect needs to be doled out accordingly. It's just procedure, pal. Don't make it more difficult than it has to be. Don't make my Unlife harder than it already is."
Francesca assures him, "It's fine, Mr. Weinbauer."
She sighs and returns Amos's gaze, "Apology accepted...for this time. Next time, however..."
Vincenzo speaks up, "There will not be a next time because this Jew must learn to behave himself and not act like a spoilt child. I do not know what excuse he will have. If he ever speaks to Francesca like that again, then he will have me to answer to, as well as the rest of the...Clan of Death."
He growls a bit, "And we are not cowards who hide in the shadows and ambush people. We have many ways to win a fight- and you never wish to find out what those ways are, you unruly...bastardo (ITA: bastard)! Tch!"
Sheriff Marshall chuckles, "OK, OK, that's quite enough. Point made. Heh. Yeah, Amos, work on your issues, man, seriously. Hmph, anyways..." He trails off as his eyes wander over to Prince Cedric.
The Salubri Prince shrugs, "You folks are kinda on fire tonight, ain't ya? What the hell kinda spicy, funky-ass shit y'all puttin' in your blood, huh? Keep them eyes and ears peeled for brother Jamal. If you so much as see a glimpse of him, or get a whiff of him, then report it to either me or Sheriff Marshall."
"Or me," the Seneschal interjects.
Prince Cedric nods, "Or the Seneschal. Yes. Definitely her, heh. As for the murders, we can only hope that they...come to an end- none of us like 'em. But if they continue to happen, then we're gon' have to do something about it. That's all for tonight, y'all."
Otto huffs a sigh, "While I have my...disagreements with welcoming the Thin-Bloods into our Domain, I do sincerely hope that you find a way to keep those...unruly ones in check, so to speak. It's in our interests that we maintain the Masquerade."
The Nossie Whip remarks, "And if I know a thing about Thin-Bloods, it's that they can be pretty damn pathetic. And pathetic people don't know how to stay quiet and be obedient. They don't know their place, so they always cross lines that have no business being crossed."
Amos comments, "Mm-hmm. Ain't that the truth. Heh-heh."
Vincenzo explains, "I am more worried about how the restless dead will react to the influx of the Mercurians. Their Alchemies- if done improperly- could be catastrophic for everyone involved. We must be cautious. Erm, perhaps I could propose some ways to...minimize such risks..."
Seneschal Rosalind answers, "We'll consider your suggestions, Vincenzo. Would you be comfortable with discussing these strategies after this meeting has concluded?"
The Necromancer agrees, "Sì, Sì. That would be wonderful. Francesca will accompany me, of course."
Francesca slowly nods and smiles at the three-eyed Seneschal.
Sheriff Marshall has a contemplative look on his face while he grimly says, "I...uh...swung by a funeral over at the Elmwood Cemetery earlier tonight. Don't worry, I made sure to keep my distance. It was for a Puerto Rican mechanic named...um...Eddie Rivera-Torres, yeah."
Amos dryly groans and crosses his arms.
The Sheriff goes on, "I saw a lotta people there. Every one of them looked like they were in mourning. Family, friends, colleagues. I lurked near the back and managed to hear some of the eulogies. The stuff that they said...my Spanish is pretty damn rusty, but I think I got the gist of what they were trying to say."
Francesca's expression softens, "What did they say?"
Sheriff Marshall shrugs and sniffs a little, "What didn't they say? Eddie was a stellar guy. An innocent life was snuffed out for no apparent reason. A life worth living was cut short. He was loved and will be dearly missed."
Some tears of blood fall down from his third eye and roll down the middle of his face. The Sheriff hastily wipes them away.
Prince Cedric adjusts his dreads and asks, "Do you think that it's Kindred-connected?"
Sheriff Marshall growls and balls up his fists, "If it was, then we gotta find the sick fucker who's going around murdering people. But I dunno, chief. I--I dunno. It could be one of us, or it may very well be a mortal. That not knowing is what stings the most, y'know?"
Otto gestures to the Hecata Primogen and Whip, "Well, if you feel so strongly about this, get the death whisperers and spirit talkers back over there to do something about it. Hey, I don't like crazies and maniacs running around town- it's bad for business."
Sheriff Marshall replies, "You don't have to tell me twice, Otto. Fran? Vin?"
The two Necromancers look at each other, whisper something or the other in Italian, and then nod to Sheriff Marshall.
Vincenzo says, "We shall see if there is anything that can be done, Sheriff. But I personally cannot make any promises. As it is, my nightly routine involves communing with the departed spirits of various individuals. And they have many...unresolved issues to deal with before they can even consider moving on."
Francesca puts in, "Yes, and some of those people he has been talking with for years! I myself have my duties towards Orpheus. But I do think that we can try and help you, Sheriff. It is just a matter of trying to get the time right. Schedules and the like."
Amos uncomfortably shifts his weight around and winces slightly. Would a departed spirit of one of his (many) victims be able to expose him?
The False Assamite banishes such pessimistic and unpleasant thoughts from his mind and insincerely says, "Yeah, OK, thanks for looking into it. You're real outstanding citizens, you two."
Seneschal Rosalind senses the sarcasm and grimaces at Amos. She's also really starting to dislike that guy.
A random Nosferatu with a very gravelly voice raises his semi-severed finger and queries, "When's the wedding, Rosalind? You and Cedric have been an item for quite some time. We're all still waiting for the official announcement, y'know?"
Prince Cedric faintly chuckles, "Well, we're still waiting for...uh..."
The Seneschal tells the crowd, "I have to make sure that my Clan is taken care of first and foremost. Us vampires have all the time in the world, so there's really no rush. Besides, we've already been together for half a century, so our marriage will be more of a formality, really."
Amos thinks to himself, "This schvartze has been banging his Seneschal for the past fifty-plus years. Jeez. I couldn't have seen myself lasting that long with Rivkah. Oh, well, she's...no longer an issue anymore. And here I still am. Take that."
Seneschal Rosalind claps her hands together and cheerily exclaims, "Anyways! When it's time, we'll be sure to inform all of you. OK? That's it for tonight! You may mingle among yourselves now! Behave! Have fun! And...get along, OK?"
Amos blows a harsh raspberry, gets up, shoves his earphones deep into his ears, and walks off. Some of the other Kindred begin to disperse as well.
The two Necromancers stay and talk with each other in very hushed tones. Vincenzo seems to be growing agitated as Francesca holds his hand and nods to his every word. He wildly gesticulates and points his finger at the ground as he goes on and on about something or the other.
Laurence dusts some lint off of his suit and casually approaches Otto and Sheriff Marshall. The two Nossies inform the Sheriff that there may have been a few mortals who MAY HAVE seen a Nossie in all their...au naturel glory.
And worse yet, it may have been caught on camera.
Sheriff Marshall winces and asks for the deets- the more, the merrier. Information is exchanged, and the Sheriff swears to look into it ASAP.
The other bloodsuckers disperse after milling around for a little bit, engaging in polite (or rather, awkward) conversation with one another. The Nosferatu take the secret passageways out of here (save for Otto).
The night winds down soon after. Those who stay back do so and get to talking with each other about matters of great importance. The air in the Batcave has noticeably shifted from earlier in the evening, when things were far more tense.
A cool draft now blows through the caverns. The stalactites precariously hang over their heads. Some high-pitched screeches echo and bounce off of the walls of the cave.
Things were slowly stirring as the sun rises on the horizon. The vampires are all tired and wanted to go back to their Havens. It won't be long before Magnolia City is cloaked in the daylight once again.
And it won't be that long before this city is plunged into...a set of events that will be forever seared into the minds and hearts of many people for years to come, possibly longer, or...for all eternity.
Chapter Eight: The Council Of The Nine Eyes
The sun shines brightly in the sky this Friday morning, and the air sweeps through the streets and alleys of Magnolia City. Some Kindred day-sleep far easier than others in this Domain.
Mortals prepare to go about their day, looking forward to the approaching weekend with varying degrees of glee and enthusiasm. Most of those citizens are blissfully unaware of the supernatural that lies under the surface.
It lurks beneath their shuffling feet, roaming the shadows and sewers, and awaiting its inevitable chance to feast on the blood of the innocent and the guilty alike.
Lena is awakened by her alarm clock. She pulls herself up out of bed and rubs her face, before going to the bathroom to freshen up. She slips out of her clothing, tosses all of it into the nearby hamper, and stands in the shower.
She turns it on to the perfect temperature and lets the water wash over her sweaty, grimy, naked body. She closes her eyes and takes a deep breath, clearing her mind and savoring the warmth and wetness in equal measures.
The water pelts the back of her neck and helps loosen all the stress and tension accumulated over the past couple of days. Once done, the dripping-wet PI steps out, dries herself off, puts her hair up in a towel, and then wraps another towel around her body.
Lena brushes her teeth, spits the toothpaste out, gargles some peppermint mouthwash, and then spits that out as well. She grimaces while it all gets washed down the drain.
She dreads tomorrow- Saturday- owing to the inescapable fact that she has work even on that day, too. For now, however, she slips into her office attire, applies a decent amount of makeup, and heads to the kitchen to fix herself up a pot of coffee.
And something to eat. Honey-flavored cereal clatters into a round, ceramic bowl. Copious amounts of milk flows into the mix, and a spoon digs into the sugary, edible cluster.
Crunching noises echo throughout Lena's suburban house as she eats her breakfast. She sips on her (first but by no means last) cuppa coffee and winces at how hot and strong it is- the ideal blend, no less!
Miss Adams clears up, finishes the remainder of her caffeinated stuff, and then ties her jet-black hair up into a ponytail. Before the sunglasses come on, her phone starts to ring- just the average and generic default ringtone.
She picks it up and asks, "Hello?"
Jake Woodward's shaky voice is on the other end, "Hey. Hi. Uh...sorry for bothering you, Lena. I hope that I'm not calling too early?"
"Oh, no, not at all. I was just getting ready to head to work. You're...calling about the case, right?"
"Y--yes. I don't mean to pry or--or be pushy- you are doing this for free, after all- but, um...have you made any progress with your investigation? Like I said, I don't mean to rush you; I understand how delicate these situations are. I'm just w--worried, y'know?"
Lena equably answers, "I'm gonna expand my search. I want to cover all of my bases, so to speak. I was meaning to do it last night, but something came up and it demanded my immediate attention, so...I'm really sorry about that, Jake."
Jake tells her, "It's no issue, Lena. Please keep me in the loop and let me know what you find, OK? As long as you're working hard, then..."
Lena promises, "I'll do what I can to find Tyler's killer. And if you think of anything else that may be helpful, just shoot me a text or call me, alright? I may not immediately respond, but rest assured, I'll see it and get back to you as soon as I possibly can."
Jake stammers, "T--thank you, Lena. If--if you do find something important, call me. The moment that you do, I wanna be the first to hear it. Umm...tell me one thing before you go, though."
"Sure, anything. What's on your mind?"
The client fearfully asks, "Is there still a chance of catching the people who did this to my boy?"
Lena herself is uncertain and it is reflected in her tone, "I don't wanna get your hopes up, Jake. All I can do from my end is my job. But I'll let you know if and when I do find something. You'll be the first to know if the situation changes, OK?"
"Yeah, OK, t--thanks for taking me seriously. After having been looked down upon by the city's authorities for weeks on end, it's finally nice to be, well, heard. Respected, y'know?"
Lena nods slowly, "Yeah, I can definitely empathize with that, Jake. I'll get to the bottom of this sooner or later. Goodbye."
Jake sniffs and says, "OK. Bye." He hangs up.
The mortal PI shoves her phone into the pocket of her duffel coat, fixes her hair a little, cleans up the tabletop, and locks the door behind her. With a brisk stride, Lena Adams moves forth, walking along familiar (and well-trodden) paths to get to her workplace.
Expansive and towering structures of glass and steel loom up ahead, their many reflective windows glaring the bright morning sun. People bustle back and forth, to and fro. Mortal humanity is out and about, flocking to their respective jobs or places of learning or whatever.
Since caffeine already flows through her system, Lena decides against swinging by GROUND BEANZ. She raises her chin and strides past the shop and straight towards Crystal Street Station.
Throngs of warm-bodied persons stand in crowded, grumbling masses as the train screeches to a halt and the doors hiss open. Clusters of people flow out of the train and walk to the steps, and others come clambering in order to board the train.
Lena manages to find a seat next to a pudgy kid who's wearing a red shirt and khakis. He's red in the face and his forehead is glistening with beads of sweat. He doesn't give the PI a second glance, engrossed as he is in getting his ragged breathing under control.
Ms. Adams regards him with only the slightest tinge of concern. Out of common courtesy, she dryly asks him, "You doing OK?"
In between pants, the young boy mutters, "Could be better. This summer heat is awful. I just ran a couple of laps around the station. Trying--trying to lose some...weight, y'know? Not exactly going swimmingly, though."
"Hmm. Sure."
The rest of the ride goes by in relative silence. The kid makes a few noises that Lena finds irritating- she wrinkles her nose and subtly shuffles away from him, just a little bit.
Once at the building where Pluto Enterprises is situated, the mortal PI gets checked- and frisked- at the usual spot. She passes the screening process with flying colors and is allowed to pass.
She settles into her chair and sees that today's desktop background of the day is a landscape photo. It's of a small town tucked away in the mountains, all snow-capped and very picturesque, indeed. A small factoid below the image causes Lena to mutter under her breath.
A small part of her partially resents not having Saturdays off. Lena was planning on going on some dates to top the week off and all- some rather intriguing matches have turned up, and she has taken the initiative to contact these lovely vixens.
During a short break, her amber eyes flit over to the TV screen mounted high up against the wall. It's the fucking financial-related news, and Lena actively hates every single part of it. She rolls her eyes and goes back to looking through her phone.
Some really pretty (to her) faces catch her attention. She sends a few mild messages of interest to prospective dates. However, one lass in particular has gotten her attention and is determined not to let go.
"Allison Moretta," Lena mumbles to herself while studying the profile picture. The False Assamite has dyed the tips of her hair green and blue. Her half-smile is soft and her dead eyes twinkle with suggestive mischief.
Lena bites her lower lip, "Hmm. Allison, huh? Maybe...hmm. OK...Allie, let's see where this will take us..."
However, before she gets the chance to send a message, the bossman steps up to her and somewhat urgently says, "Miss Adams. I've got an assignment for you."
Lena stifles a groan, locks her phone, and looks up at him. Without smiling, she blandly asks, "What is it, Gary?"
"I just emailed it over to you. Make sure that you get it done with before lunchtime, OK? And no staring at your phone so much- you're on company time. And company time is company money, so make the most of it and work hard."
Miss Adams dryly nods to her boss, "Understood. I'll get right on it."
"Good, good. Excellent," Mr. Stuttgart says. He jovially saunters away and leaves Lena to her own devices, including a scowl.
She half-whispers, "He didn't even mention my raise- even after I formally submitted a request and did all of that shit. I swear, sometimes, the people who run PE are nothing but bean counters. Tch."
She can't help but ask herself if the higher-ups just glossed over the whole thing entirely. It's certainly...possible, all things considered.
Her typing becomes angrier as the day drags on. Time is passed by engaging in some idle and mind-numbing watercooler gossip. Some of Lena's co-workers speak about the sudden rise in violent and grisly crimes- murders, particularly- happening across the city.
Another exclaims that he saw something unbelievable the other day. He says that he might've hallucinated it, but he swears on everything which is relatively sober that he saw a lanky person with a misshapen head (resembling a caved-in skull) pop out of a manhole and furtively creep through the alleyways.
"And I--I think he was dressed in this, like, really fancy coat that came down to his knees or something, y'know? Either way, it was weird and freaking me out. I think he saw me. And I know it was a he...if the growls were...uhm...anything to go by."
Lena's brows slowly and steadily furrow. Skepticism takes over as she shakes her head and turns away from the conversation. She dismisses the subject while the others gather around to hear this guy's tale.
Last night's funeral still weighs heavily on her mind. She wonders how Eddie felt before his final moments. A shudder of fear and the feeling of dread washes over her entire body. She fights the tears away, lest anyone see her like this and start asking questions.
But Lena does genuinely feel sympathy and sadness for Mr. Rivera-Torres and his grieving family. Her lips quiver as she clicks a few icons on her screen. She takes a deep breath and starts reading, "OK...so, let's see what we have here."
When lunchtime comes around, Lena elects to go for something simple and cheap- a simple bowl of salad and a triple espresso to go with it. Not the most ideal of combos, but whatever.
The mortal lady shoves the greens into her mouth and chews slowly, occasionally tapping her phone's screen and hoping to see a reply from this Allison chick. But alas, no new messages are received.
(Because Allison is busy day-sleeping.)
Lena clicks her tongue and scrolls through the profiles of the other lucky women who're listed in the dating app. But the picture of Allison keeps popping up and stealing her attention. Lena finds something about her...alluring, but she can't quite put her finger on it.
Je ne se quois, as they usually say. But Lena would soon find out that a creature as horrid as Allison Morenstein has no appealing, let alone redeeming, qualities.
In any case, the remainder of the PI's workday goes about as quietly as can be expected. If only the freakin' pay adequately matched the effort, time, and energy put into this damn job.
Lena trills her lips five minutes before work officially concludes. She decides to make well on her promise to continue investigating the murder of Tyler by expanding her search.
Her fingers fly furiously over her keyboard as she finishes up some last-minute stuff.
Yeah, stuff.
Ms. Adams hurriedly puts some stuff away in the biometrically sealed drawers. Then she speedily-yet-efficiently gathers her personal belongings and shoves them all into her purse. With a minute-and-a-half to spare, she brushes the few errant strands of her jet-black hair to the side and clears her throat.
With bated breath, she watches the clock intently, almost obsessively so. She hears a few obnoxious and knowing "tsssk-tssksk" sounds emerging from certain people. They, too, watch the clock along with her.
Phew!
The walk to her PI office is mercifully short. The sun will soon set. She looks up at the sky while shielding her eyes from the glaring orange and yellow hues- the sunglasses help, too.
"It's a beautiful sight," Lena wistfully says to no one in particular.
The late-afternoon sun soon fades from view. Darkness bleeds into the world until only a sort of scarlet redness remains. The Kindred of Magnolia City will soon stir from their near-Torpid states and go about their vampiric Unlives.
Lena guzzles down a cup of coffee whilst going over whatever she has pertaining to her investigation. It's not much, but it's mighty better than a whole lotta nothing.
Her mentor's voice echoes in her mind and reminds her, "Don't become complacent, Lena. Even an iota of something is way better than a pound of nothing. Keep looking. Stay sharp. Always."
The PI nods and hums softly. She thinks and reasons, "One step at a time. One slow and--and steady step at a time. But first...more coffee. After that, I'll return to the scene of the crime and work my way out from--"
She clicks her tongue out of annoyance, "Oh, goddammit. There I go monologuing again. I'll expand the search net, that's that. I'm still looking..."
Lena rests her chin atop her palm and chews on her bottom lip- the lingering taste of coffee invades her mouth. A cooling breeze blows through the open window and rustles the rainbow pride flag on her desk, causing it to flap and wiggle around.
It's not long before the sun sets and the night begins anew!
Somewhere else within this Domain...
The medium-sized home on the unassuming cul-de-sac doesn't particularly stand out amidst homes that are of a similar shape and size- rather plain-looking and easy to miss, if anything.
And yet, this suburban house is...important. The streetlights flicker on and the orange glow spreads over the nearby sidewalk. A few of the sprinklers on certain lawns chug and burble to life and shoot forth a stream of water.
Bicycle wheels spin and roll along the sidewalk as a group of kids take their time riding around and enjoying the cool wind. The bells of their cycles ring and ding out melodically and loudly. They laugh and play while the crickets and cicadas chirp a symphony of sounds.
Deep in the basement of that white-colored house with tiled flooring, plastered walls, and brown wooden doors is a fully furnished bedroom. A massive, king-sized bed with black sheets and a collection of pillows lays in the corner of the room.
A large desk is adjacent to the foot of the bed. Some books and assorted papers are scattered hither and yon. The gentle hum of the air conditioner provides a constant ambience and accompaniment.
Two people lie on the bed. Their three eyes are shut, and a soft sheet covers their cold bodies. They shiver and twitch and move about.
Prince Cedric wakes up with a shiver coursing all throughout his body. His fangs extend and his pupils dilate. His claws involuntarily pop out as well. A slight growl escapes him, but then he gasps and retracts his claws and fangs.
Another...memory from...those times. Those times when cruel people would say (and do) unspeakable things to him and other individuals like him. The backbreaking hours of hard, hard labor, and the relentless oppression- the dehumanization and the inhumanity of it all.
The Salubri Prince forces some breath through lungs that have long since ceased functioning, and he attempts to calm himself down. Flashes of whips rending his flesh and woeful cries wracking his weakened frame come forth from the deepest recesses of his mind.
Scruffy white men spitting on him, kicking him, and calling him things not worth repeating. Pot-bellied, mustache-twirling masters clad in the finest of clothing carefully inspecting their human property and deciding upon an adequate price like it was the most normal, regular thing in the world.
And the loss and pain and fear that Cedric went through- not just him but the others, too. Those who attempted to escape...oh, god, the screams alone make him sit up straighter.
It wasn't just the cruelty and viciousness of this or that individual on this or that plantation- it was a whole fucking system that enabled, allowed, and perpetuated this state of affairs. And it had to be torn down by any means necessary.
And torn down it was. 'Twas very violent and vicious and messy but done it finally was.
Prince Cedric takes a look at the framed photograph of Abraham Lincoln mounted on the bedroom wall- it's in-between the portraits of Frederick Douglass and John Brown.
Then he regards the writings hanging right below each said picture. He repeats them to himself as a way of reassuring himself that that chapter of human (and world) history is now closed.
But newer horrors have risen to take the place of those from yesteryear.
While the three-eyed vampire contemplates these things, the Seneschal stirs and groans a little. When she finally awakens, the tips of her icy fingers run themselves up and down the back of her hubby-to-be.
(Any night now!)
Seneschal Rosalind blinks her three eyes and stares at the back of Prince Cedric's head. She quietly whispers his name, "Ced...bad dreams? Again?"
He gently corrects her, "Not bad dreams. Bad memories. A dream is a mishmash of shit that didn't happen- or has no chance of ever happening. But bad memories remind us of what really did happen."
A small moment of silence passes before Rosalind speaks up, "Then, I strongly feel that it's time for another session, dear. And don't groan just yet. This is important. For you, mainly. It's a part of your healing process. Marshall's coming along, too."
Cedric trills his lips, "Aight, fine. It's not like we got much to do tonight. Our city seems to be quiet. But people are scared cuz of all these murders and shit. It--it's just an abnormality, right?"
Rosalind props herself up by her elbows and winces a little, "It could be, but it could also be the precursor of something worse. Do you...wanna talk about it?"
"I think we should all keep an eye on things. And get Marshall to keep his fingers on the pulse, too. And I never got to ask, but how are your studies going, Ros?"
The Salubri Seneschal shrugs a shoulder, "Eh. It's going well enough. Were it not for the obvious, I could've been done a lot sooner. But these online courses should ideally help. Still, as far as anybody's concerned, I am still a therapist very much in training."
Cedric puts in, "And a damn good healer. A credit to the Clan as a whole."
Rosalind blushes a bit, "Aww, baby, you got all the right words to say, huh?"
He chuckles and replies, "Well, I'd sure hope so, otherwise, we wouldn't have gotten this far in...this relationship. Do you ever feel that we're dragging things on? Fiddy years is a long-ass time, no two ways about it."
Rosalind snuggles up to her man and wraps her arms around his chest, "We were forced to postpone our ceremony for several reasons, which were almost all out of our control. Even then, I want your healing to be complete before we can take this next major step in our Unlives."
Cedric strokes her fingers and huffs a small sigh, "I'm trying, Ros. I'm trying. But shit like that- the kinda shit that I went through- ain't easy to purge. There is always gon' be a lingering presence...of that...institution, y'know?"
Rosalind's expression falls, "The scars on your body are--are testament to that, sweetie. It's--it's not fair."
"It never was, Ros. That was the whole damn point of it. And even after all these years, a part of me still feels like...nothin' much has really changed. I mean, we got a black President, but I don't feel reassured. Like, at all."
His voice cracks, "Thangs didn't quite pan out the way we had initially hoped, y'know? That's America in a nutshell, right over there. Ya make one plan, have all them big and great ideals, sooner or later, y'all gon' be runnin' up against a big-ass wall labeled 'reality'. And at the speed at which y'all run, your head's gonna end up turned to a mess."
His tone grows weary, "Ya dig? Don't get me wrong, things have improved and all. Conversely, things ain't exactly lookin' up at the moment. I mean, take a look at our current President. That nigga just as bad as Bush!"
Rosalind chuckles faintly, "Mm-hmm. He was...certainly not what I was expecting, honestly. More wars, more destruction, and a staggering increase in deportations. And the ways in which they put prisoners to death with reckless abandon, it...it...boggles the mind, truly."
Cedric rapidly nods, "Damn right it does, Ros. And sometimes, us Kindred ain't exactly helpin' matters, ya feel me? While we busy goin' about our Unlives, who's to say that some other Big Bad ain't getting ready to cause some major trouble? Werewolves, Mages, Wraiths, and shit."
"It's a whole world out there, baby. A world of darkness."
"And secrets. And a whole lotta other crap, too."
Rosalind mutters, "A Beast I am, lest a Beast I become."
Cedric barely chuckles, "The Riddle of our very existence, huh? Well, we better get cleaned up for the night ahead, hmm?"
Ros lets go of him and nods plainly, "Mm-hmm. You go first, I need to brush up on my...notes and stuff."
The Prince grabs a stack of papers off the desk and places them into a nearby folder. He strokes Rosalind's cheeks affectionately, stares into her three eyes with his own three eyes, and smiles.
He tosses a flirty wink towards her and gives her ass a slight squeeze. She titters and returns the gesture with greater fervor, even going so far as to flirtatiously growl.
A wee while later...
The two Peacemakers are showered, cleaned up, and ready for the next activity. They enter the spacious living room, and check that the windows are locked. The thick beige curtains are left closed and the lights are dimmed.
Cedric is clad in a dark-blue sweater and black pants. The stiff white collar of his shirt rises a little. His dreadlocks freely flow down.
Rosalind has opted to wear something a bit more comfortable and casual- a purple cardigan and capri pants- it's giving welcoming therapist vibes. Her hair smells of rosy shampoo.
Ced has seen his beloved with and without clothes on. He wolf-whistles at her, and she coyly pretends not to notice.
"Damn, gurl, you fine. I got an overdue book...and my library card could use a swipe...or two, ya feel me?"
"Oh, I feel you, baby. Mmm, I very much feel you. Now, come on and sit here."
She taps the floor and assumes a cross-legged position herself. Cedric lowers himself down and mimics her pose- his knees and back creak a little. They are now seated opposite one another.
Their hands touch. Their fingers interlock.
Cedric gulps and shakes his head a little bit, "You know I kinda hate this part, right?"
Rosalind reminds him, "It's necessary. We have to. It's all a part of your healing process. So, let's start from the top, hmm? Back to where, when, and how it all began. I know that we've been so many times before, but maybe we might discover something new or different? You never know, Ced."
The Prince mumbles, "That's what I'm worried about. OK, here goes nothing. I was born...a slave. Didn't know who my momma or daddy was. The masters probably knew, but they didn't tell me shit about 'em. Siblings? I dunno, I honestly do not know. I just got--I was alone, really."
The eyes of the Seneschal flash as she begins peering deeper into the very essence (soul, maybe) of her dearly beloved. Ced's memories become hers. And small parts of hers, his.
The plantation had thousands upon thousands of slaves working long hours under the harsh, unforgiving sunlight. Whips were cracked, racial slurs of the foulest and most dehumanizing variety were uttered gleefully, and bodies were severely broken for not meeting quotas.
The two-eyed (and very much mortal) Cedric Montgomery would work till his body could take no more. Even then, he would be beaten and forced to endure beyond the breaking point's breaking point.
Ros urges, "Steady, steady. If these parts of your past are--are too much to dwell upon, let's move things forward a bit. Does that sound like an agreeable arrangement, my love?"
Prince Cedric manages a nod, and Rosalind starts guiding him through the rest of the...process.
Tears of blood stream from her eyes. Even her topmost eye bleeds. She feels his pain, experiences his grief, and understands his anger on a visceral level.
That would be the Affective Empathy of the Salubri Clan in action. It's their Compulsion. In this case, Rosalind becomes overwhelmed with empathy for a personal problem that afflicts someone- her boyfriend. She seeks to resolve it regardless of the cost to herself.
In their case, the painful memories of yesteryears haunt both Ced and Ros alike.
Both of these vampires understand that sometimes suffering is part of a cumulative situation and not an isolated stimulus. As such, they are compelled to ease their burdens and mitigate these tragedies as much as they possibly can.
Sometimes, their duty and their desire align seamlessly and perfectly. Other times, it takes a greater deal of effort from one or all parties.
Cedric gulps and sniffles hard. The hairs on his body stand up. He unconsciously clutches Rosalind's hands tighter, eliciting a slight gasp from the Seneschal.
She winces slightly and keeps her focus on him. On all of him. The man, the human being, the freed slave, and the victim of a cruel and unjust system that has been abolished.
Rosalind politely guides him, "Let's keep moving. Do you...want to maybe stay a while or shall we--"
Cedric's lower lip quivers, "I--I wanna go forward. I wanna see...his face. Even if it's just another glimpse."
In time, Cedric would go on to be rescued by a white abolitionist of the Salubri Clan. Three very intense blue eyes looked down on a broken and shaken black man who was clad in a burlap tunic and filthy hemp pants.
The then-mortal Cedric was aghast at the sight in front of him. Skin as pale as snow, fangs bared and gleaming with blood, and despite all of that, kindness and the best of intentions.
The abolitionist would go on to Embrace Cedric into the Clan. Over time, Cedric would learn that his Sire relentlessly killed slave owners, slave catchers, and their families without mercy.
On a warm evening, the two-eyed (and deeply bruised) Cedric was given a machete- as were many of his fellow slaves. They rose up and did what had to be done. The only way to answer those who profit and trade in human flesh.
While the man with three blue eyes calmly watched, the slaves cried out and furiously charged. With machetes in hand and determination burning deep in their souls, they cut down ALL of their oppressors (and their families) and brought a long-overdue reckoning.
They burned down the whole fucking plantation after killing literally everybody. Cedric watched the flames dance. And his would-be Sire smiled. From that night on, Cedric had a newfound purpose.
But when the fangs sank into his flesh and third eye popped out of his forehead, things really did change and didn't exactly pan out the way he imagined them.
His Sire- whose name he never learnt- disappeared so suddenly. Many of his fellow Salubri started to scatter and hide away within the Confederate South, with many foes hot on their tails.
Pious mortal fanatics and their unquenchable thirst for ending the supernatural and the like. Cedric would have to learn how to survive, adapt, and overcome the various trials and tribulations that life- Unlife- had in store for folks like him.
As the years rolled on, he would live, struggle, fight, and make connections and alliances with other members of the Camarilla. Alliances with other Sects didn't pan out quite well. Reasons.
He bore witness to the horrors of the Jim Crow South as well. His nature as a vampire (and the obvious third eye on his forehead) meant that he couldn't directly intervene, especially during those times.
Cedric admits, "I--I lacked the courage of my Sire. I just...wasn't him. I couldn't be him."
But he tried helping and aiding wherever and whenever he could. He briefly ran with the Black Panthers but found certain aspects of their program quite limiting and restrictive. He even flirted with Black Nationalism but wasn't all that enamored.
(After all, it was a so-called "White Devil" who saved his life and gave him the gift of Unlife).
And the remainder of his memories fade into a blur.
When he first laid eyes on Rosalind, something inside of him...clicked. He saw the same kind, friendly expression on her face that he did on his Sire's all those decades prior. He felt her radiating genuine warmth, acceptance, and loving kindness, and he was won over.
Rosalind wistfully smiles as even she re-experiences these moments. Tears of blood stream down from the corners of her eyes. She gulps, gathers her composure, and focuses her energies- the sympathy and empathy are strong and unrelenting.
Cedric recalls a moment when one of the other slaves that his Sire had freed had cried out, "Three cheers, three eyes!" while holding a bloodied machete high up in the air. Fire raged all around them.
Everyone else would celebrate the destruction of this particular plantation...and the oppressive, cruel people who owned and ran it with nothing short of an iron fist.
Apart from the time of his freedom (and Embrace), Cedric cherishes the night that he first met Rosalind Meyer. And he shall indubitably remember his wedding (whenever that is) for the rest of his existence.
Rosalind strokes his cheek and slowly asks, "Do you...regret the violence that you and the other ex-slaves inflicted on the night that your Sire raided that plantation and freed you all?"
Prince Cedric calms his erratic heartbeat and thinks hard, "At the time, we were yearning for nothin' but vengeance. We didn't care about no decorum or takin' no prisoners. He gave us all machetes and told us that our freedom awaited us- all we had to do was go and get it. Fight for it. Kill for it."
The Salubri Prince blows a raspberry, "I don't regret doin' what I did that night and I sure as hell ain't gon' waste time condemning my brothers and sisters who wasted all those motherfuckers and did to them only a fraction of what they did to us for all those years, y'know?"
The Salubri Seneschal plainly replies, "I understand. And you're right, honey. It's a fool's errand to condemn the actions that the slaves took against their masters. I know how favorably you speak of people like Nat Turner and others."
"Only a fool would condemn what we did to all those white people that night. It wasn't pretty, but it was necessary. It was the only path to our freedom- the only path that us...broken Negroes had left. We didn't have the luxury of fuckin' options like voting and protesting and shit. All we had was a machete, a dream, a yearning for freedom, and the will to get shit done...for real."
Rosalind strokes his head and draws closer, "You don't need to be defensive. I was merely making an observation. For what it's worth, I will never condemn what you and the other enslaved individuals did that night. As...uncomfortable as certain parts make me feel, I...understand the reasoning behind all of it."
"Mm-hmm. It is what it is, Ros."
"Yep. It sure is."
After a short pause, Cedric states, "Now, c'mon, let's talk about your past."
She glares at him, unsure.
He gently encourages her, "Hey, c'mon, it's your turn now. Besides, it'll make me feel better...feel more grounded. Mind if I take the reins this time around?" 
Rosalind mulls over her options and nods.
Before Cedric can begin, he brushes her cheek with his fingers and tells her, "Y'know, movin' outta the Deep South- away from all of that pain and trauma- and up North was the best damn decision I ever made. And I guess that a part of me just...couldn't keep staying down there."
"I understand," Rosalind plainly says. She sees the hurt etched into her fiancé's three eyes and feels something radiating from him- a few memories.
He steadies himself and slowly reaches into her very being.
Cedric begins, "A small town gal. Heh. The only child- that's nice."
Rosalind requests, "Let's skip to my Embrace, if that's alright with you."
Ced nods in agreement and makes haste, "Now, let's see. Uh...1939. Damn, gurl. The New York World's Fair. The World of Tomorrow, huh? It was the first time that a small-town gal like you had been to a big-ass city."
Rosalind dreamily responds, "And I was mesmerized by the sights, sounds, smells, tastes, everything and so much more. It was my very first time in an actual city- ever! Before that, I'd only ever read about big cities or heard about them from relations, but I'd never actually been to one myself. At the time, I was terrified. These nights, I simply accept it as a fact of Unlife."
The 1939 WOT fair featured exhibitions, activities, performances, films, artworks, and food presented by numerous nations, Orgs, and companies. Millions attended- and Rosalind was just one of those millions.
Cedric repeats the slogan, "'Dawn of a New Day'."
Rosalind nods along, "Mm-hmm. Little did I know that it'd signify so much more than that. In no time, the whole world would be at war..."
1939 was also the year in which the Salubri Seneschal would get Embraced. It was late in the night, in some far-off pavilion barely frequented by the masses, when she caught sight of three dazzling lilac eyes that flashed and glowed. Two regular peepers, one on the forehead.
This eerie individual was resplendent in a silky gown that complemented their unusual eyes. Rosalind couldn't quite determine the gender of the person who'd go on to become her Sire and Embrace her into the Salubri Clan.
All the small-town gal knew was that they were gracious, warm, kind, and clearly not from around these parts. They spoke with a slight accent, but she couldn't quite pinpoint it. All she could understand was that this stranger saw...something in her.
"They saw something that not many did."
Kit was their name. After a...brief chat about certain weighty matters, Rosalind was taken to a more discrete corner. Kit put their cold hands around Rosalind and gently drew her closer. Their fangs elongated and pierced her flesh.
Rosalind saw the world around her going dark and heard voices whispering something incomprehensible. She felt herself falling. She gasped her final breath as a mortal. Within seconds, she felt something sticky falling onto her tastebuds. Blood. Kit's Vitae.
She was so fascinated by their three eyes. While others may have shrieked and run to summon help, Rosalind watched them in a trance as they strolled around the fair.
As time drew on, Kit would succumb to the pull of the Beckoning- even back then, Elders like them were being shuffled around by some or the other unseen force. They left Ros in good, capable, and decent hands and swore that they'd be back to check on her progress whenever they could.
Rosalind's eyes tear up with blood, "That--that promise was made to me decades ago. Kit...still hasn't returned." She sniffles and gulps.
Cedric takes over, "They said that they'd be back within a week or so, but weeks have turned into months. And months into years. And years...into longer years. And you adjusted to NYC- but ya never forgot your roots, Ros."
"Mm-hmm. The World of Tomorrow promised in 1939 and the reality of what came to be aren't exactly synonymous. A--a part of me hates this world we live in, Ced. Not its inhabitants, but the needless suffering of people, the injustices inflicted on so many, and the vile attitudes and words and acts of certain individuals..."
"Yep, no arguing with you there, Ros."
Rosalind vaguely gestures, "I still have some of the stuff from that lovely fair. Flyers, trinkets, posters, bits and bobs, you name it." She grows quiet.
And contemplative. Cedric knows that look all too well. He remains silent and lets her take as much time as she needs to mentally compose herself.
Four months after the fair’s opening, the Second World War broke out in Europe.
Rosalind bitterly chuckles, "I thought that we'd have flying cars by now."
Cedric shakes his head, "Huh, yeah. But they do say that progress can't be rushed."
The Salubri Seneschal abruptly stands up and walks to a cabinet. She rummages through it and returns with some fair-related memorabilia. She lays it all down on the floor and picks through them while Ced looks on. He feels the intense emotions radiating from her being- sheer astonishment mixed with deep longing and regret.
Ros softly smiles and her dead eyes light up, "I remember trying out some pelmeni from the Soviet pavilion- little did I realize that it'd be my last meal before Kit Embraced me. If I'd have been given the option of having a last meal, I'd have probably gone for another plate of that stuff."
The Seneschal caresses some random souvenir booklet and confesses, "After my Embrace, seeing my family back home in Montana was--was nigh impossible; us Cyclops are walking breaches of the Masquerade, heh. But I managed to call 'em up a few times."
The then-Fledgling announced her intentions to settle down in NYC (more out of necessity than anything else). She linked up with the other Salubri (there weren't that many) and started learning from them how to navigate, adapt, and adjust to this new state of being in the world.
Cedric stares at her face, "It took time, but y'all adjusted fairly well. Until y'all had to leave."
"Yup. We couldn't exactly stay in New York. Let's...not talk about this tonight. Please."
"'Course."
After a few minutes of complete silence, a knock at the door jolts the Prince and Seneschal out of their near-meditative states. Rosalind chuckles and begins delicately clearing the stuff away. Cedric helps her before he answers the door.
It's Sheriff Marshall Fairfield. He's clad in a faded red hoodie (with it drawn over his forehead), ripped jeans, and white sneakers. The Salubri looks like an amateur rapper who's about to launch his career on Soundcloud.
Cedric faintly chuckles, "You look like you're about to drop some bars, Marshall. C'mon in."
Marshall chuckles along, "Yeah, super-hot fire. Heh. I'm not...disturbing anything between you two, right?"
Rosalind greets him at the foyer and smiles while answering, "Not at all. We were just getting wrapped up. And how are the streets of our city faring tonight?"
Marshall shrugs, "You know me, Rosalind. I'm always on the clock. As Sheriff, it's my sworn duty to uphold the Masquerade and the other Traditions of the Ivory Tower. Not always easy, but that's why we're in this together. The three of us, right?"
Cedric ushers his Sheriff into the living room, "Sit down, sit down."
The Salubri Sheriff takes his seat with a slight sigh. He looks around the Haven and takes his hood off with a relieved smile, "Not easy concealing that third eye on our foreheads. At least the Nossies have an excuse, we're...not so lucky." He laughs uncomfortably.
Rosalind joins him, as does Cedric.
Marshall quirks an eyebrow, "Uh...are you sure that I wasn't interrupting anything? You two seem kinda...y'know?" He looks between his fellow Hidden Ones.
Cedric jerks his chin over to his beloved, "She's on a roll tonight."
Rosalind blushes and nods, "I sure am. And seeing that you're here, Marshall, I can't help but sense...a disturbance emanating from your being." She leans forward and squints at him.
Marshall blows a tired raspberry, "It's just the recent happenings in the Domain that have set me on edge. The murders, the disappearances, and the strange behavior of certain individuals- it's been getting more and more concerning, y'know?"
Ced snorts, "Tell me 'bout it. Ros, maybe you ought to peer into my Sheriff and see if you can get to the bottom of the issue. Might have something to do with his Sire, right, Marshall? Even now, I can tell that Gerald ain't too far from your thoughts." He smiles sadly.
The Sheriff shifts uncomfortably and scratches the back of his head, "Uh-huh. You're not wrong about that. Wait a sec."
He reaches into his pockets and pulls out a folded-up photograph that appears quite old and frayed at the edges. His icy fingers carefully unfurl it. And the trio gaze upon it.
It's black-and-white and it depicts the then-mortal Marshall standing in line. He's dressed in a bulky overcoat, and his hands are shoved deep into his pockets. He's looking over his shoulder. The line extends for several meters in front of him.
Marshall stares at the picture and intones, "The Great Depression. I hadn't eaten a fucking thing for a few days. Gave my last loaf of bread to this skinny Hispanic kid who probably needed it more than I did. I was standing in a bread line. My stomach was empty. And so were my choices."
In the photo's immediate distance, a group of similarly dressed people are huddled near a burning barrel.
Marshall goes on, having that faraway look in all of his eyes, "It was winter. Biting cold. A decade of hunger and dust that reverberated throughout the entire world. That's when I first met him. My Sire...Gerald."
Gerald was a sad sack sort of fellow, by all accounts. Sometimes, he'd go by the name of Gerard. Marshall's Sire was perpetually depressed for reasons that the Childe (or other Childer, for that matter) weren't wholly privy to.
"He was...a closed book to us. And that's when I got Embraced. Funny thing is...I was supposed to go in for a job interview the very next day. I guess some other poor sap ended up getting my job as some no-name paper-pusher, huh? Heh."
Rosalind tells him, "At least the Salubri of the Midwestern United States made it." Her gaze is distant and somewhat vacant.
Marshall looks at his Seneschal sympathetically, "Yeah, unlike you poor souls. Anyway, Gerald and the rest of us grew distant as the years drew on. He...went away. To where? Hell if I know. All I can tell you is that there are nights when I don't miss him. Far from being a cruel a-hole, he was..."
Cedric completes his Sheriff's statement, "Distant. Not always there for you."
Marshall bitterly chuckles, "Mm-hmm. Fledgling me had so many questions about this new existence that I was suddenly thrust into. Gerald gave me the five-minute version of Unlife and let me discover the rest on my own."
In time, Marshall found stable employment along with his fellow Salubri. They were all doing odd jobs hither and yon- nothing truly out of the ordinary; just a buncha three-eyed vamps ekeing out something resembling an existence.
"It was a lot less difficult back then. No cameras and massive records and shit. As the decades rolled on, I became something of a drifter."
Rosalind knows the story of the Sheriff's Unlife all too tell, "And that's when certain Kindred elite approached you, offered you a job, and you accepted. But only because you didn't have much of a choice in the matter. That's how the story usually goes." Her dead eyes are filled with sorrow and sympathy.
Mr. Fairfield nods once, "Mm-hmm. I was tasked with tracking a runaway Vessel- she had this quote-unquote 'Resonant' Blood which a certain picky Ventrue Elder NEEDED- y'know how they are when it comes to their...food. God, I feel so nasty talking about this." He grimaces.
Cedric's expression is neutral, "And that's how we all ended up meeting in Magnolia City. Ya never did say what happened to the shawty you was tracking--"
Rosalind clears her throat and subtly shoots a glare to her beloved. She slowly shakes her head and mouths something.
Ced takes the hint and presses his lips into a thin line.
After a short and tense pause, Marshall finally says, "I don't wanna talk about it. And I don't have to. Either way, I have no intention of returning to the Midwest; it's not like I made a promise or signed anything." He snorts derisively.
His Sheriff and Seneschal stare at him with mixed feelings.
Magnolia City was going through some issues in the Kindred leadership structure back in the sixties. By the end of all the long and drawn-out hullabaloo, a bunch of Salubri had gained control over the Domain.
(Wink, wink, nudge, nudge).
Soon after, the Council of the Nine Eyes was formed. Prince Cedric saw an empty position and seized Praxis over the Domain. Seneschal Rosalind essentially gave herself the position (and title). And Sheriff Marshall had made fast friends with the both of them by then.
Three vital positions occupied by vampires who each have three eyes. Three multiplied by three is equal to nine. Hence the little name that the rulers of the Domain took. It was a subtle-but-clear declaration that the trio had seized the reins and were running shit 'round here.
And the past half century has been...a mixed bag, so to speak.
The wheels of time have spun on, and the inexorable march of history continues- the three of them have borne witness to all sortsa events from world-shaking ones (the fall of the USSR in 1991, the bursting of the dot-com bubble, 9/11, and so on) to smaller, more mundane ones.
And they have, in turn, been shaped, deeply affected, and molded by such happenings.
After a few minutes of quiet reflection, the trio start chatting about the future and the Domain. During the course of the conversation, the more immediate matters of the city (and running it) surface.
Marshall sighs, "It's a constant, unending struggle to uphold the Masquerade and preserve our Unlives on nights such as these. At least we don't have the SI knocking on our doors...yet."
Cedric clicks his tongue, "C'mon, don't jinx us! We got a decent thang going on here. So long as we do our part, everybody will be...copacetic. Isn't that what Laurence always says? I remember the nights when we all got together, figuring shit out..."
Rosalind agrees, "It's not exactly the most ideal of situations, but it's the best one that we've got. Us vampires can be remarkably adaptable under the right circumstances. It's been a learning curve, but we're managing, I think."
Marshall rubs the base of his neck, "Speaking of the Nosferatu Whip, I'm paying him a visit tonight. For the whole...y'know? Hey, don't look at me like that. We agreed on this years ago. It's a necessary precaution, if you ask me."
Cedric grumbles, "Well, ya don't need to remind me."
Rosalind's eyebrows shoot up, "Or me. But yes, you're right. As much as we don't quite like it, arbitrarily checking people's phones is a necessity- and we're not excluding ourselves from the equation."
Marshall chuckles nervously, "Yep, you two are the Prince and Seneschal, so you gotta set the ultimate example. Oh, right. It's the Council of the Nine Eyes, not the Six Eyes. So, I guess I gotta be the one who does as he says, too. Heh. Then again, I am the one who checks up on everyone else."
The talk then drifts to other matters of some import- potential Masquerade violations to look into, messy feedings that need to be covered up, and other such (sanguine) stuff.
After a while, Marshall gets up and announces, "Y'all have a good night. Hey, how's the whole counselor thing coming along, Rosalind?"
The Seneschal's face tics and she sighs, "I'll admit, it's not going quite as well as I'd have hoped. It's not easy juggling the matters of the city with my own studies- which have drawn on for far too longer than I'd like to admit. By now, I should've been done with...it all."
The Prince gently touches her shoulder, "It's aight. You can still see some Kindred and Ghouls on the side. As far as I'm concerned, you're legit. But you don't wanna do this the wrong way."
The Sheriff puts in, "Yep, that'd be incredibly messed up. But hey, even bloodsuckers need a mental health professional. And who better than...you, right?"
Rosalind chuckles, "I suppose so. It's very much a work in progress. I'm just not entirely satisfied with the pace that the process is going, is all."
Cedric places his hand on her knee, "But you'll get there, gurl. I believe in you."
Rosalind places her hand on top of his and smiles, "You always do, baby."
Marshall snickers, "Alright, I better leave before you two pounce on each other. Bye!" He puts his hoodie back on, which conceals the third eye on his forehead, and walks out of the Haven of his fellow Salubri.
After a short and slightly awkward silence, the Prince and Seneschal burst into laughter. They both ask when the last time was that they...did it.
"Not that long ago," Rosalind purrs seductively.
Cedric feels a slight twinge in his naughty bits and gulps deeply. Alas, even he has bidness to see to tonight. So, any kind of bedroom antics will have to wait.
And Ros has her studies and vast notes (she keeps a lot of them on everybody, including her man) to review. She sees Ghouls and other Kindred on occasion, circumstances permitting, of course. Most Ghouls really have a laundry list of complaints and issues regarding their Domitors...and vice-versa.
Rosalind cautiously treads, fully cognizant of the fact that she is not (yet) certified. And when it comes to such weighty matters (in more ways than one!) there's no room for errors, dodgy advice, or missteps.
Constantly being on the run during the initial years of her Unlife really put a damper on her studies. So, Rosalind's opportunities to engage in vigorous (and rigorous) studying have been few and far between.
(But she's trying her best to make up for lost time! Even then, it ain't easy with her duties as a Seneschal and all that).
At the Haven of Mr. Lancaster...
The Nosferatu Whip dwells in a veritable mansion- one of the finest in the outer reaches of the city. He has the means and the motive- not to mention the contacts- to live such a luxurious Unlifestyle.
Shining chandeliers hang from high ceilings and bathe the luxe interior of this joint in a soft and warm glow. There's a certain level of grandiose to the whole affair. Marble flooring, mahogany furniture, a fuckin' fireplace, and a whole bar (complete with a wide array of spirits and alcohols).
The last one is less for Laurence's benefit (or consumption). He hobbles down the winding staircase. As always, despite his utterly hideous appearance, his clothing is immaculate and well-tailored.
The Sheriff and the Whip shake hands and share some brief small talk.
Laurence glares at Sheriff Marshall and growls a little, "What are you really here for?"
Sheriff Marshall casually stares at him, "I think you know what it is, Laurence. Just a simple checkup. C'mon, hand it over. Lemme see." He holds out his hand and makes a "gimme" gesture with his fingers.
The Nosferatu rolls his eyes and groans, "This again? I don't have my phone on me. It's...charging."
"Uh-huh. I can wait."
"Don't just stand around like a bum, come and sit down."
The Nosferatu gestures for his guest to take a seat in front of the huge-ass plasma screen TV. A sleek phone is seen connected to the charging port. The Sheriff picks it up and inspects it.
Laurence clicks his tongue and swats the Salubri's hands away, "Give it some time to charge. It's...I paid a lotta money for this thing, y'know?"
"Yeah, I can imagine..." Sheriff Marshall responds while taking his seat on the plush sofa.
Laurence joins him and starts scrolling through various channels and programs. His twisted fingers fiddle around with the remote and he's muttering something or other under his breath.
"How's your night been so far, Mr. Lancsaster?"
"Fine until you showed up asking to prowl through my phone. I don't have anything to hide- why don't you go and bother someone else?"
Sheriff Marshall shrugs, "Well, it's your turn tonight. If I inform you that I'm swinging by to do a routine check, there'd be no...fun in that. And you may panic and do some stupid shit that all of us would probably have to contend with."
Laurence ventures a few guesses, "Like making calls or sending texts that'd get flagged by our enemies. I used to run a tech company, so I'm not stupid enough to make a dumbass move like that."
The Salubri plainly responds, "Never said that you were. But you know what Prince Cedric always says, right?"
Laurence's glassy eyes linger on the images flashing on the TV screen, "The Masquerade is like a velvet curtain; one wrong thread pulled out, and the entire illusion comes undone. Let the mortals...gawk at how beautiful it looks and hope that they never pull it aside or--or tear it apart."
The Sheriff chuckles, "Well put."
He gestures to the charging phone, "These newer models are said to charge faster. C'mon, show me."
For a few moments, Laurence is transfixed on the images of regular-looking people smiling, laughing, and having the time of their lives. His slimy fingers go up to his mouth and he quietly murmurs, "I don't have that anymore."
Sheriff Marshall's eyebrows go up, "Yep, that probably sucks, doesn't it?"
"Hmph. The hell would you know?"
The Sheriff points to the third eye on his forehead, "I'm a Cyclops. You're a Nossie. We're both walking breaches of the Masquerade. If any mortal catches sight of us, that velvet curtain's getting torn to shreds. We've got a lot more to lose than the other Cainites."
Laurence mumbles, "Worse yet if it gets caught on camera...then there'd be no going back from that."
"Mm-hmm. Now you understand. So, show me your phone, Laurence..."
The Nossie Whip grunts and gets up to grab the phone from the charger. He unplugs the device and hands it over to the Sheriff with a huff.
Sheriff Marshall takes a cursory look through the Nossie's phone. He chuckles and stares at his host, "Unlock it for me, please."
Laurence's bent fingers jab into the touchscreen and he mutters, "There."
"Thanks."
The Salubri Sheriff spends a few moments going through the Whip's phone. He mutters, "OK. All good. Ah, interesting. Hey, don't stare at me like that- I'm not here to judge you or go through the more...intimate shit. No, this isn't the first time I've done this. I know my...boundaries."
Laurence impatiently replies, "I know. Just get it over with, already. For what it's worth, I do scan for spyware. Like I said--"
Sheriff Marshall raises a finger to shush him, "I know, I know. Tech company CEO. Yeah, I got it. Now, what do we have here..." He trails off and brings the other man's phone closer to his face.
His expression changes and he mutters, "Hey. Oh, a security vulnerability, huh? Hm. So much for a 'perfect' phone. Heh. We're not done just yet. Now, let's see what apps are installed..."
He starts tapping and scrolling through the numerous apps, "Mm-hmm. OK. Wow. Uh, sure. Um...no comment on that one. Uh...huh. Yep, all good. Whoa, you, my friend, got a lotta financial apps on here. Now, wait a sec...what's this? Ah. I see. Huh, cool. Nice."
Laurence glowers at him, "I don't quite like your condescending tone. Now, are we done here?"
"We're done when I say we're done. And Laurence..."
"What?"
"Aren't you forgetting something?"
The Crawler's fingers twitch and he uncomfortably shuffles in his seat. He nervously licks his lips and mutters, "No??"
Sheriff Marshall slowly scrolls through the phone and taps away on the touchscreen, "Your other phones. And don't tell me that you got rid of 'em, alright? It's like the equivalent of 'dog ate my homework'. Moreover, I'm pretty damn sure that a guy like you doesn't misplace his important shit."
Laurence's face puckers, "Fine. I'll be right back."
Sheriff Marshall chuckles softly, "Now you see why I show up unannounced. Like always. I never say who I'm gonna check and when, but the fact that we're doing this at all shows you how seriously we're taking this, right? Right?"
He fixes the Nossie with a significant look, "We're all on the same page here, aren't we? Now, go on...show me all of your other phones, Mr. Lancaster. And thank you for being so cooperative." A smile is now on the Salubri's pale face.
Laurence mutters something unflattering and gets up from the plush sofa. He wobbles up the stairs and returns with a small plastic box full of old phones. Mostly flip phones, but a couple of older smartphones with slightly cracked screens are mixed in as well.
Sheriff Marshall bites his lower lip, "There we go. Hey, I remember the red one. What was it, 2007??"
"Hrrrmph. Just do what you came here to do, Sheriff," Laurence grumbles.
The Sheriff spends a bit of time going through the Nossie's many other phones. Odd chuckles or plain remarks are uttered every now and then. In the end, it seems like all is well.
Once Sheriff Marshall is satisfied, he firmly nods. With an air of finality, he announces, "Well, that about does it, Mr. Lancaster. We're all...copacetic. Isn't that what you always say? Have a great night."
The Nossie merely grunts and turns the TV's volume up. He languidly waves his hand dismissively, "You know the way out."
Sheriff Marshall remains seated. He clasps his cold hands together and leans forward. He's wearing a serious expression on his face, "How are you doing tonight? All well on the home front?"
"I'm fine. Now, why don't you get the hell out of my Haven?"
"Not just yet. How has Unlife been treating you. It's been, what, a decade since you were Embraced, right?"
Laurence smashes his finger onto the remote, and the screen switches from a reality TV show to a movie, "Something like that. Why? You already know my history, Sheriff. What's your deal? Is this a new part of your 'routine checks'?"
Sheriff Marshall shrugs, "Maybe it is."
"Is there a point to all of this?"
The Salubri observes, "You Nossies do things quite differently around here, right?" As if to punctuate his point, he does a wide, encompassing gesture with his hand.
Laurence nods slowly, "I suppose that we do. We don't live in any stinking Warrens. And don't get smart about our lungs not working and all that. If anything, that's an advantage. We don't do the whole...communal living thing. And we're not about to get started."
"I'm well aware. Those of you who can afford to, at least. You do realize that not every Nossie in this Domain is well-off, right? You know, some of them actually do have a rough time out there."
Laurence turns down the volume and sighs a bit, "Each of us have our own Havens on the surface. We use our Ghouls to see to our daylight affairs."
Sheriff Marshall's eyes narrow, "You didn't exactly answer my question. But that's OK. It's gonna be a long night for the both of us, right? Just...keep the less fortunate in mind--"
Laurence callously replies, "I don't think I will. I already had enough of that back in Flimont City. I don't need a repeat of that experience. Not again."
The Sheriff nods sagely, "So, you think that it's dog-eat-dog world out there?"
The Whip's plain shrug says it all without words. Sheriff Marshall winces a little, rubs his hands together, stands up, and stretches.
"OK, I'll get outta your hair--"
Laurence gruffly prods, "Why don't you go and check up on that bitch's phone- y'know, the one who thinks that she's better than the rest of us because she doesn't look like us anymore."
Sheriff Marshall musters up a smile, "I'll do it when I do it, not when you want me to do it. Goodnight, Mr. Lancaster. And...try not to make too much of a mess, alright?"
While still being seated, Laurence looks up at the Salubri, "What's that supposed to mean?"
The Sheriff answers, "You're still new to this world of ours. There's a lot that you still have to learn. Humility goes a long way. But yeah, don't get cocky- that's a surefire way to get a stake through the heart. Or worse."
The Nosferatu Neonate waves his hand dismissively, "Pfft. I was the CEO of a company worth billions of dollars in tonight's market value. I can handle myself just fine. Don't worry about me. I fought my way to the top and I fought to stay at the top. And that's how it's going to be around here."
The Sheriff shakes his head and turns to leave, "If you say so. But just remember that as Kindred, we have this little thing called the Masquerade. Ya won't get very far without a head attached to--"
Laurence glowers daggers at him, "I got the message. Goodnight, Mr. Fairfield. Let yourself out and DON'T loiter on my property." A certain burtal firmness laces his words.
Sheriff Marshall leaves, and Laurence resumes watching the TV.
The outside is just as massive as the inside. Trimmed hedge bushes and a huge lawn greet the Sheriff as he exits the lavish home. His feet crunch under the fine gravel of the driveway as he walks away.
The Sheriff forces a deep breath and sighs. Something about Laurence Lancaster strikes him the wrong way and just doesn't sit right. He did some reading (and research) on the controversial Lancaster family of Flimont City- not very pleasant findings, to say the least.
But Laurence has seemingly moved on from his questionable past to what is indubitably shaping up to be a future that is just as dubious, questionable, and possibly even worse.
As a Nosferatu, Laurence is one of the unluckiest bastards who's ever walked the face of the Earth. But his money (his wealth) shields him away from the gravest consequences of the Clan's Repulsiveness.
He's a rich and successful businessman and his Ghouls take care of the morning affairs by seeing to this, doing that, and signing here, there, and everywhere else. The usual bidness shit.
Laurence Lancaster (as well as his family) is very much a product (and a beneficiary) of the whole "black capitalism" milieu and outlook. His success is built on the backs and the blood of countless others. And that was just a small portion of his past (mis)deeds.
His current indiscretions are a different kind, altogether. And they are arguably even worse. He has drained Ghouls who failed him for some petty reason or the other, signed off on contract killings, and is generally an all-around dick to anyone (and everyone) perceived to be under his authority.
And there's his current alliance with Amos Greenberg. Risky as it is, Laurence has never been one who anybody will call "risk averse". If anything, blud's forte is...taking risks.
With everyone and everything.
The Sheriff shrugs and walks on. Surveillance cameras and armed guards track his every move. What matters to the Kindred leadership is that the Whip doesn't fuck up, breach the Masquerade, or otherwise jeopardize their interests, positions, or what have you.
As such, a certain amount of leeway is allowed to Laurence Lancaster, Otto Weinbauer, and a few select Nosferatu.
Regrettably, in this city, the Nosferatu (NOT all of them, but a sizable chunk) are more oriented to power, politics, and politicking over their usual underdog sympathies. And Laurence ain't the only buster aiming to be top dog...
Far from it, in fact.
Lena has made well on her word- the PI goes from bodega to bodega in an attempt to maybe take a look at their cams and determine if the vehicle that ran Tyler over could be identified. But alas, such proves to be harder than expected.
It's been a long day, and Lena has work on Saturday. So, she huffs a sigh of resignation and decides to call it a night. By the time she's home, her feet and back ache, and all she wants to do is sleep. Tomorrow's another day.
She didn't just go from place to place; she also spoke with some of the locals and asked if they saw a speeding car during the timeframe when poor Tyler got mowed down. Nobody seemed to have a definite answer for the PI.
Ms. Adams throws herself onto the bed. Within mere seconds, she's fast asleep. In time, the mortal will awaken with a groan and head for work. She'll also pursue other avenues in her efforts to track down Tyler's murderer.
Sunrise is hours away. Sheriff Marshall resumes his duties throughout the entirety of the Domain. He checks up on some Hecata who are in a dispute over something fairly trivial- territorial issues, mostly. He gives them a stern talking to, but not before letting his three eyes do the talking.
After the dispute over feeding territory has been satisfactorily resolved, some random Hecata Neonate asks the Sheriff, "So, I heard that we was getting Thin-Bloods or something around here." His voice is a low, grating whisper.
Sheriff Marshall folds his arms and plainly states, "We are. Why, do you have an issue with the Duskborn?"
"I guess I do. I heard that Vincenzo wanted 'em branded like they do in other Domains. Are we...gonna do that?"
Sheriff Marshall's face scrunches up and his third eye does a slow, deliberate blink, "Branding?? Are you nuts. Yeah, your Primogen definitely wanted them branded. But we're NOT doing that shit. Nuh-uh. No way, hermano."
"What about culling them? They do a lotta that in Camarilla-run cities--"
Sheriff Marshall sighs deeply and interjects, "I'm NOT about to start going around and smoking Thin-Bloods. We have enough problems with the SI as it is, why make enemies of our own house?"
He pulls his hood back on and adds, "I dunno what the other Sheriffs in the other Domains are smoking or--or mixing with their blood, but we don't do that shit around here. Ever. And we're not about to start now. The Thin-Bloods will be welcome. And YOU better be nice to them. Comprende?"
"Sure, Sheriff. I was just asking. Any idea when the first batch will be over?"
"When they're ready. And let's not lump 'em in together as some kind of a monolith. Either way, we're working on making them feel accommodated and comfortable."
The Sheriff pats the Hecata on the back and heads on his merry way. His hoodie conceals the third eye on his forehead- a precaution that he takes to avoid unnecessarily long stares and...questions.
Even now, there is plenty of work to be done in this city.
Prince Cedric is now back in the comfort of his Haven. His beloved is busy studying, so he quietly tiptoes away and takes a seat by his desk where a stack of papers awaits him. It's his job (just as much as anyone else's) to ensure that the Masquerade remains intact.
He looks over some important papers. The silence is broken by the sound of a phone buzzing.
Rosalind clicks her tongue and shuts her door with a little extra force.
Cedric grimaces and declines the call- whoever it is can wait until later. He gets back to reading the documents. Three eyes mean that he can go through a bunch of papers pretty quickly, and that's exactly what he does.
His lips slowly move as his eyes go from line to line. His eyebrows rise when he reads a certain line and pauses for a bit.
Unlike Rosalind, Cedric has never been one for such...still silence. He's usually at his best when there's some kind of auditory stimulus involved. And this is no exception now. As a result, his eyes linger on a particular sentence for a bit longer than they should.
He opens a drawer and fishes around for his old iPod- something a random Nosferatu Fledgling had gifted to him. A couple of earbuds are plugged into his ears and he hits play.
"Strange Fruit (1965)" by the talented Nina Simone is the song. Cedric is transfixed on the lyrics, but it's not exactly a pleasant listen. He himself has seen so many innocent black boys getting violently lynched by angry racist mobs.
The Prince's eyes are glassy and his mind drifts to the recent spate of murders that have taken place in this city.
"Black bodies / Swinging in the southern breeze"
Cedric gulps and closes his eyes for a moment.
His fingernails dig into the wood when Nina's voice relays: "Them big bulging eyes / And the twisted mouth"
A shuddering unease goes through him, and he puts the papers aside for a moment. His phone buzzes again, and he declines the call with a swipe. He leans back and stares up at the ceiling. The remainder of the haunting song draws itself out, and Cedric slowly nods along with it.
When the song is done, Cedric switches to whatever's next and picks up from where he left off. He gets lost in this stack of papers for quite a while.
He gets some reports about how the bans are faring- there is quite a bit of Kindred-related stuff that the leadership outright BANS in this Domain. Such is, of course, their prerogative.
Redworking is the main thing that is banned, as is Flesh-Crafting and Blood Sorcery. The last one is to keep the Tremere the hell AWAY from Magnolia City.
Given that the Usurpers tried (many times) to wipe out the Salubri Clan, it's understandable why such bans are in effect. And they are enforced by the relevant parties. Anyone caught futzing around with such things is dragged in front of the Prince so that they might have the chance to explain themselves.
What happens after that, of course, is up to the Council of the Nine Eyes. It could range from exile to a swift Final Death. And a confiscation of any and all materials, tomes, or artifacts that may constitute an infraction.
The members of the Third Eye (a Tremere faction) bear responsibility for nearly wiping Clan Salubri from this world. It is a long and complex history spanning many, many years.
A most shameful matter that has not been discussed since they tried to atone for their wrongdoings over the recent decades.
Either way, the ban remains firmly in place. And it applies to everyone and everything within the confines of Magnolia City. No exceptions. Certain...vampires have had their objections in the past (private, public, or otherwise), but the word of the Prince is the law- it's final. And that's how it do be.
But the Council of the Nine Eyes would soon find out that there are far worse things out there. There is no shortage of monsters in this dark world, after all.
In any case, Cedric keeps reading and signing documents until his eyes grow weary and he can't see straight anymore. Sunrise is imminent. Rosalind puts her heavy textbooks away, and the two of them are about to head downstairs and sleep for the day.
They share a sweet kiss, and a few whispered words, and then they're snuggled into bed. They await the day-sleep.
Rosalind wiggles into position and tells her man, "I made sure to triple check all the windows and doors, baby. This whole week...has been something else, hasn't it?"
Cedric lies on his back and stares up at the ceiling, "Sure has. Lookin' forward to the weekend?"
"I suppose. You?"
"Just another night in Magnolia City, Ros. Same ol', same ol'."
She echoes, "Same ol', same ol'."
Silence reigns over the room, and the couple closes their eyes and tries to catch some rest. Marshall is back in his Haven. He slips into sleepwear, shuts the blackout curtains of his Haven, and shivers. He always hates this part- the part where he gradually loses control of his Unliving body as the sun rises.
And the part where he is dragged into a deep, deep slumber. While his dead heart acts up, he thinks about what the future holds for this city and the denizens therein- be they fanged or otherwise.
He'll soon find out just what it is that awaits him and everyone else in the city.
Chapter Nine: FWB
The sun is now high up in the sky. The Kindred in this corner of the world are fast in the throes of their day-sleep. The sky itself is clear, and there's a certain cool crispness to the air- one of the advantages of residing in a port city, no doubt!
This particular Saturday morning is just like any other. The rays of the hot sun coat the streets and the buildings and the parks and everything else in a blinding, shimmering white-hot light.
And a gentle wind blows, rustling leaves and blowing a few stray pieces of paper and litter around. It is a beautiful summer's day.
Lena awakens with a groan, partially loathing and resenting the fact that even fucking Saturdays are workdays for her. Her feet ache and her back aches. Her head feels sorta heavy and her eyes are still bleary. But she has a job to do.
She almost forgot that she has work on a Saturday. Her shower is brief. While picking out clothes, she sees a few messages from Allison. Mostly cheeky ones.
Lena remarks, "She's really interesting, isn't she?" She can't help but grin a bit.
She types back: "Are you free this evening??"
Of course, Allison is in her day-sleep, so she won't answer. But the trap has already been set.
While wrapped in a towel, Lena picks her clothes for today- a plain-colored shirt, wide-legged formal pants, and a pair of flat shoes. She sprays some deodorant on her duffel coat and throws it on.
She puts her black hair up, eats a quick breakfast, and grabs her things on the way out. Miss Adams swings by GROUND BEANZ, orders the coffee of the day, pays for it (NO TIP) and walks outta the joint.
The mortal makes a face when she sips the drink- too creamy for her liking, but the caffeine jolts her awake. And that's all that really matters to her right now.
Crystal Street Station isn't nearly as active on this day as it usually is. Lena ambles about and chugs her coffee. She finds a spot and settles in. While waiting for the train, her phone buzzes and her heart jumps- could it be a response from Allison?
No. It's a missed call from Yvonne.
Lena dials said woman's number. She taps her foot on the cold, hard floor of the station and listens to the ringing.
Yvonne answers, "Hey, hey, hey! How you doing, gurl?"
Lena chuckles and answers, "I almost forgot that I had work today."
"Damn. Tough luck, huh? Well, I for one, am grateful that I get Saturdays and Sundays off. Heh-heh."
"Yeah, rub it in. I...I'm talking to someone."
"Oh, is it serious?"
Lena watches someone pushing a stroller past her and says, "Uh...she takes her sweet time to reply."
Yvonne bites her lower lip and asks, "I was thinking, a--are you busy this evening. Maybe we could, y'know...get together? It's been a helluva week and I'd like to...destress."
Miss Adams can hear a bit of lust and desire lacing Yvonne's voice. She bites her lower lip, "Huh. Me too. If this doesn't pan out, I'll...let you know. Is that OK?"
"Yeah. MY place."
Lena faintly chuckles, "Why not mine?"
"Ehh. The sheets are nicer."
Lena snorts, "OK, OK. Your place, then. And...um...did you meet anyone yet?"
Yvonne sucks some air through her teeth, "Still looking. In the meantime, we got each other."
"I guess so. And you're totally OK with--with this arrangement, right??"
"'Course I am, gurl! And you?"
Lena shrugs and plainly states, "We're friends with benefits. Nothing more, nothing less. And that's perfectly fine."
Yvonne chuckles, "You say that now, but...ya never know!"
Lena sees the train approaching, "Yeah, you never know. Listen, the train's here, I gotta go."
"Alrighty, catch ya later! Come by anytime, gurl!" Yvonne makes a kissy-noise and hangs up.
Miss Akira shakes her head and smirks. She puts the phone away and takes another sip of her coffee. She calmly stands aside while the passengers depart the train and then she steps inside.
The day drags on for Lena. Her fellow Pluto Enterprises employees go about their usual routines and deal with their respective workloads, tasks, and the like. The PI herself is bored out of her mind and constantly checks her phone.
STILL no new messages from the alluring Allison Moretta. Lena clicks her tongue and calls Yvonne up.
"Damn, can't keep away, huh? You coming now or...?"
"I just--just wanted to talk. I'm so bored over here."
"Yeah, well hey, at least it ain't retail. Don't get me wrong, my job's got its sweet perks- cheaper groceries, mainly- but retail's hell on Earth. Ain't no other way to put it."
"Damn. That bad, huh?"
Yvonne vaguely says, "I'll tell you 'bout it when you come over. We can snuggle up and tell each other some stories. And maybe something else. And we'll see where it goes from there."
Lena very much LIKES the sound of that, "Hmm. I'm definitely in."
"You bet. See ya soon, gurl! Hey, before you go back to being an office drone, tell me more about this chick you're messaging. C'mon, deets, gurl, deets!"
Lena relaxes and says, "Well, she's some kind of an artist. Name's Allison Moretta. She's in her twenties, which is sorta fine, I guess. She's cute, she's cute."
"Oooooh, hey...if things don't work out..."
Lena spins a pencil on the desk, "I know, I know. I'll send her your way. Heh. But I kinda like her. I can't quite put a finger on why just yet, but there's something about her that--that's different, y'know?"
Yvonne's voice lowers and she murmurs, "Mm, yeah. Too bad it didn't work out with that cougar though, huh? Too much baggage, you said."
Lena throws her head back and sighs, "Yeah. Elise was nice, and she was definitely fun, but she clearly wasn't ready for any kind of meaningful relationship. And I'm not really sure if she was over her dead girlfriend or whatever."
"Damn. That sucks. Listen, I don't wanna get too deep into it, but you should take it slow with this Allison chick."
Lena bites her lower lip, "Why?"
"Eh, y'know why, gurl."
Lena gets the hint, "Ah, I know. But what we have is...different. We're both on the same page and we're both allowed to see whoever we want. And when it gets serious, we agreed to...end things. But we can still remain friends, don't worry."
Yvonne sighs a little bit, "Mm-hmm. I know, I know. Do you think that maybe thangs could work out between...us?"
Lena's eyebrows shoot up and she stiffens up a bit, "I mean...I--I'm not opposed to trying and all, but..."
Yvonne chuckles, "Don't worry. I get it. I was just messin' with you, relax. So, what's this Allison like?"
"Apart from her being an artist, she didn't mention much else. It's just been a lotta back-and-forth messages between us. Nothing serious. Yet"
"Well, I do hope that it works out. You deserve to be happy, Lena."
"Yvonne, even you deserve happiness. Hell, we all do. Listen, my boss is staring in my direction. I--I gotta go. I'll let you know how things go tonight. OK? Bye."
"Sounds good, gurl."
The line goes dead and Lena hurriedly goes back to work. Her cheeks are burning and she tries her best to avoid looking at her boss. Gary glares at her with narrowed eyes and a stern look on his face but he doesn't say anything.
The bossman is dressed like he's about to go golfing today.
Lena can only hope that no more surprise emails show up in her inbox and land her in hot water- that was...a most unfortunate mishap that could have led to the termination of her employment (and health insurance).
But the hours go by and there's no word from anyone- including Allison.
Yum, yum, yum...lunch! Lena goes for a tuna sandwich with some crinkle-cut fries. She exchanges text messages with her brother- Roland Adams- while chowing down on her meal.
Roland is still in Japan. He says that he intends to visit his sister sometime soon. He refuses to elaborate on his vague message. Other than that, his work as an accountant for some kind of startup in the Gifu Prefecture goes fairly well.
It's good money and he seems proud of the fact that he's contributing to a company. He mentions that he sent some money over to their parents for their needs.
Lena feels a pang of guilt when she sees how much he sent over. Compared to her own contribution to mama and papa bear, it's not a lot. Not a lot at all.
The rest of the afternoon is uneventful. Work, coffee, work, coffee, work, more coffee. Miss Adams keeps checking her phone every five minutes and waiting for a certain Allison Moretta to reply.
Alas! No response! By five forty-five, Lena finishes up, shuts her computer down, and heads out. She put in nine hours today! Whether her salary will reflect her efforts or not is, of course, unknown. But the employee already knows the answer...and it pains her greatly.
The Pluto Enterprises employee heads back home. She keeps herself awake with more coffee. By the time she's back in her house, the sun is beginning to retreat below the horizon.
Lena is greeted by the sight of a bunch of bills on the porch's floor- the mailman must've dropped them off.
"Dammit!" she angrily hisses while picking them up. Her face twists and she looks at them.
The mortal PI blows a raspberry and trudges into her home. Her heavy footsteps echo throughout the foyer and then she sets her things aside. She tosses the bills on a table already stacked with other unpaid bills and papers and then she heads straight to the kitchen for a mug of joe.
Lena sits down and takes a look at the bills in question. Her amber eyes flit from one letter to another. Her jaw tightens. She puts the pile of mail aside and sighs heavily, her caffeinated breath filling the air. She grabs a pen from her bag and scribbles some figures down.
Miss Adams grimaces when she realizes just how far behind she is on her...well, everything, really. An uneasy feeling settles into her stomach. The numbers don't add up. It's gon' take time for her to sort through this mess.
Later in the evening...
Amos Greenberg has just finished his nightly working out routine. He wipes his brow and sits down on the living room couch to admire his physique. The man himself is rather proud of how fit and strong he is- decades of hard work, determination, and a steady schedule seem to be paying off.
A knock at his door gets him outta his reverie. The False Assamite clicks his tongue and goes to answer it. Standing on the other side is a smirking Allison Moretta. She's wearing a solid, round-necked gray t-shirt and skinny jeans. A pair of flats are on her feet, and a large leather bag is on her shoulder.
The tips of her brown hair are now dyed blue on one side and green on the other side. She gives the big man a once-over and says, "Hey, hey. Like the new look? Does it make me look more or less like a desperate dyke?"
Amos rolls his eyes and lets the woman inside, "Whatever helps you sleep during the day, Allie. Get inside. We have things to talk about." He makes sure to lock the door behind them both.
Allison throws herself on the couch and takes the whole thing to herself. Her shoes rest on the armrest and she whistles and says, "Oooooh, I dig your digs, Amos."
Amos clicks his tongue and sits on a single-seater sofa, "Eh, it's just one of the many places under...my rightful ownership. So, I hope that you're making inroads with that shiksa."
Allison's head lolls from side to side and she muses, "Can't we just kill her, Amos? I still don't see why I have to pretend to be gay and do this whole seduction/entrapment thing."
She crosses her ankles and adds, "I'm not even that good with people. As a matter of fact, I hate them. I just want to be left alone so I can work on my...next masterpiece...in peace. And quiet. And solitude." Allie shudders at the thought of having to interact with actual people.
Amos sighs softly, "Not until we know what she knows...or doesn't know. Allie, listen to me carefully...if we go and slime a fucking Private Investigator, somebody else will get wise and start barking up the wrong goddamn tree."
Allison dryly gesticulates, "Then, we just kill them, too. I mean, we've already killed so many people. What difference does a few more corpses make in the grand scheme of things, hmm?"
Amos grits his teeth, "We have to be careful about how we proceed. You're right, these fucking goyim don't matter but we have to be careful all the same. We've come too far to see it all go up in flames."
"Hmm. She's desperate, Amos. This slut is capital-D Desperate for love. And affection. She's lonely, she's pathetic- hell, she'll probably believe anything you tell her. I just hope that my dead pussy's enough to keep her...occupied."
The big man nods curtly, "It will have to be. How desperate is Lena Adams, anyway?"
Allison pulls out her phone, opens the FemmeConnect app, finds the private message thread, and shows it to Amos. He reads the texts between the two women, "Huh. Wow. Jeez H."
"I'm terrible at this whole flirting thing. Should I send a naked picture to this Asian??"
"..."
Allison snorts and cackles, "Oh, Amos, you should see the look on your pale, pale face!"
He advises her, "Lead her on. The goal is to KEEP HER AWAY from her investigations, particularly the one involving that flattened kid. Try to...cajole some kinda information outta her, but don't push too goddamn hard or you might end up tipping her off."
"She's a PI, Amos."
"And you're a seductive artist, Allison. Charm her and get whatever info you can outta her--"
Allie gleefully interjects, "And then we kill her!"
Amos scrunches his forehead with the tips of his fingers and groans deeply, "Jesus Christ, Allison, we're not going to kill her. Well, not immediately, anyway. It's--it's just too damn risky to end a shiksa like her prematurely."
Allison huffs, "Tsk. You're killing all the fun. What's so important about this skank? Apart from the obvious, I mean."
The Bnei Hashem gets up from his seat and tells her, "I don't know. That's why you have to crank up the charm and find out what she knows, how much she knows, and who else knows."
Amos picks up a barbell and lifts it while grunting, "You've already got her eating outta your hands like a schnauzer. But you're gonna have to have her eating something else, too." He grimaces a little.
Allison understands what he means, "Ugh."
Her phone dings. It's Lena, sending another message asking if Allie busy tonight. She smirks and calls Amos over, "Hey, guess who's online."
Amos comes over. With the barbell still in his one hand, his free hand scrolls through the messages coming in.
Allison fixes him with an expectant look and prods, "So, what do I say? How do I reply? Do I initiate first contact...now? But--but I'm busy tonight! I haven't even begun clearing my apartment! And I got some killing to do, too. And painting!"
Amos gives her a stern look, "You're going to have to put all that shit aside and commit to the bit. If that PI suspects that you're not really into her, she'll pull back and probably run back to whatever hole she came outta. If she senses that something's off, she'll slip outta our grasp...and we don't want that, right?"
"We...don't, no."
"Gimme the phone. Lemme play the part for you."
Allison shrugs, "What the hell, knock yourself out."
Amos snatches the phone and reads Lena's most recent message out loud: "Hey, I'm kinda free right now and I don't have much else to do. You wanna go out someplace nice? Restaurant? Food truck? Anywhere is OK. Truth is, Allison, I need a break. I worked a nine-hour shift and the bills have...piled up."
Allie makes a face, "A struggling slut. Goddamn, Amos, why can't I just kill her?"
Amos looks at the ceiling and says, "Because she may be of use to us. Now, shut up and lemme think of something to say to her."
"Hmph. Fine. Just triple-check the message. Those stubby fingers of yours--"
"Shut up about my fingers."
The other False Assamite mimics zipping her mouth before she shoves the key into an invisible front pocket. Amos rolls his eyes and taps on the digital keyboard on Allie's phone.
His message reads: "I'm so very sorry to hear that, Lena. Even my back hurts and my feet are so effin' sore. So, I can very much sympathize with your plight. As you know, I'm trying to put my apartment in order and I've got lots of work ahead of me, but I'd love to have you over to, y'know, help me take my mind off of all this stress."
After a moment, Lena responds: "That sounds wonderful, honestly. Are you free 2 grab a bite 2 eat at least?"
Allison peers at the phone, "She IS my bite to eat."
Amos glares at her, "Just don't go overboard when you chomp into her neck, Allie. We still need her alive and breathing for...the time being, at least."
He types back: "Not right now, sorry. Busy with...stuff. it is what it is. maybe at another time??"
Lena's message is immediate: "I understand. For what it's worth, I do hope you get it all done soon. Maybe I could come over sometime soon and help you?"
Amos chuckles: "Oh, you could do more than lend me a helping hand, Lena..."
Allison grimaces, "Eugh. You're flirting with her on my behalf. And here I thought that I was the one who was gay for pay. Oh, well."
Amos glowers at her in a baleful manner, "Do you want me to play this part or not? I'm doing this shit for the cause, not for you or anything else. But you gotta remember that the endgame is to keep her away from our business and to wring out whatever information you can get outta her."
Lena replies: "Oh, really? And how...helpful would this hand be."
"Allison" responds: "When you're ready to find out for yourself, I'll let you know, babe. For now, I'll leave you to...whatever it is you have planned. What is it, anyway? TV? Your PI thing? Speaking of, what's it like. The whole detective thing. Do you...catch baddies?"
Lena's reply takes time to come in: "Well, nothing as glamorous as that- mostly trailing cheating spouses (alleged or otherwise) with a DSLR camera, finding lost junk for kids, and doing some background checks. It's not quite exciting, but hey, it helps pays the bills."
Amos remarks, "Ah, you hear that, Allison?? It's her side job. Heh. She's an amateur at this. Good, we could use that to our advantage."
"I suppose we could. Tell her that it sounds cool and that I'd love to talk about it someday soon."
Amos nods and types out: "Now, that sounds so effin' awesome! I would totes love 2 talk about it sometime soon. Is this the kinda stuff that you can even talk about? I'm the kinda gal who loves herself a juicy story, and your life sounds like it's got lotsa those."
Lena's message is almost instantaneous: "Trust me, my life isn't nearly as exciting as what you see on TV or in movies. And neither is my job as a PI- unless you count a lot (and I mean A LOT) of paperwork, following up on obscure leads, and doing the occasional background check exciting. Which it's not, btw."
"Allie" tells Lena: "I personally find that sort of thing not only interesting but also...inspirational. As an artist, I am always out and about, seeking inspiration wherever I go. But sometimes, I do get lonely. Loney hearts club. Population: 1. Me :-("
Allison's face scrunches up when she sees that last message, "How desperate are you making me look, Amos?!"
Muscle man laughs, "Well, she's desperate too, Allie."
Lena trills her lips: "Yeah, make that 1, maybe 2. With me going in and out of lonely-hearts-ville. So, if we can't meet up today, when is a good time for you? Tomorrow? It's Sunday and I don't have ANY work that day (thank fuck!). Maybe we could spend some time together?"
Amos smirks. Allison suggests, "Yeah, uh...sure, right?"
He shakes his head as his stubby fingers glide across the virtual keyboard: "I want my place to look impeccable...why? For the most impeccably beautiful woman I have ever laid eyes on. And I have scrolled through some uggo horror shows on this app. Ugh. But you're different."
Lena swallows the lump in her throat and replies: "Wow, OK, that's...whoa. Sure. I mean, I wouldn't necessarily call the women on this app that, but you're not bad yourself. However, I've seen some real duds on here, I'm not gonna lie. Fucking anime fans, gamers, weebs, nerds, geeks, and other yikes types. My advice? Block them and move on."
Allison snorts, "You're a slut with no actual standards, Lena. And that's exactly what I need you to be right now."
Amos glares at Allie and types back: "I can relate lol. Listen, when I clear my schedule, you will be my 1st call. But for now, I'm kinda busy."
Allison protests, "Hey! Why?"
Amos clicks his tongue and explains, "Hook, line, and sinker. We make this too easy, and we risk giving up the game and spooking her! Do YOU want that?! Because I sure as hell don't."
Allison strokes her cheek and snatches her phone back, "So, we lead her on??"
He nods and advises her, "Exactly. Build up the tension. Draw out the suspense. The anticipation makes it all the sweeter for both of us...just don't forget why we're doing this. Now, if you'll excuse me, I need to get ready to do some late-night collection. Rent's overdue at some of my properties and I have to remind my tenants that I don't run a fuckin' charity."
"Good luck with that."
He rolls his eyes and flexes his biceps, "Luck has nothing to do with it, Allie. If they don't pay, I'm gonna have to end up evicting them, kicking them out. I don't necessarily like doing that, but hey, it's a part and parcel of being a landlord."
"And a pretty successful one, at that. Now, what do I say to get this China Doll off my back?"
Amos reminds her, "She's half-Jap. Call her that to her face and she'll dip and we'll never see her again."
Allison pouts and snarks, "Aww, and that would be a major shame, wouldn't it? Now, tell me how to end this conversation without coming off as rude. I don't want her to think that I'm avoiding her or anything like that."
"Aren't YOU supposed to be the one doing this? Hey, your previous messages were fine. Too many of those yellow face icon things- whatever they're called- but fine. Figure it out, go on. I'm NOT gonna be there when you're...doing your...thing."
Allison nudges him playfully, "You mean when me and her are having sex? Or pretending to? How the fuck am I actually going to pull that off? I'm colder than a winter's frost, Amos."
"Put some Blood into it," he blithely offers.
"Hmph. I guess that could work. And if she...were to accidentally ingest some of my red, red juices--"
Amos's face tightens into a grimace, "We have to be careful about that, Allie. D--don't get too ahead of yourself or carried away when you're...going at it like fucking hyenas. I don't want a phone call with you on the other end of the line saying, 'Oh, Amos, I made a whoopsie. Come and help me clean up this messy mess!'"
Allison lightly smacks his arm, "Tch. I do not sound like that! Is that how I sound to you? Like fucking Minnie Mouse? So squeaky and stupid?"
Amos chuckles, "No comment. Heh."
He checks the time on his watch and says, "Listen, I gotta roll out. Lead her on, but don't come off as too desperate, either. Do what you need to do for the Bnei Hashem, Allie. I personally do not approve of any of this."
Allison narrows her eyes, "What do you mean by that? The gay stuff? You do realize what century we're in, right?"
"Tch. I honestly don't give a shit- in either direction- about that. No. What I mean is that I'm not particularly happy with a Jew hooking up with a non-Jew. Even if it is...casual. You know how it is."
Allison shrugs her shoulders, "I guess. But she's a task, not an actual partner or anything. And she's disposable. So, if she's not useful to us..."
Amos lifts a finger, "Don't. Kill. Her."
Allison purses her lips and makes a face at Amos, "Why not?! We kill people all the damn time!"
Amos groans, "We've been over this and I hate repeating myself- I'm gonna have to do a lotta that tonight with some of the more...stubborn tenants. Speaking of, taking people out, how fares your part of the mission?"
Allison gets up from the couch and throws her hands up, "Still a work in progress...just like my next masterpiece- just you wait till you see it. I think I may head out for a little stabbing and slashing, eh?"
"Suit yourself. As long as you stay outta trouble and you don't leave a trail behind you, have at it."
"I'm pretty damn good at leaving absolutely no trail..."
Amos's stare is vacant while he nods his head, "I know. And that is what I truly admire and respect about you. I still do not...like that we have to stoop so low."
Allison mumbles, "Well, Lena was...born that way, wasn't she? So, yeah, we're just taking advantage of the situation for our own ends, right?"
"Sure, yeah. But as Jews, we're degrading ourselves by--by mingling and getting too cozy with the goyim. They are not worthy of our company, our talent, or our intellect...but here we are."
"Or our respect," she adds.
"Oh, believe me, they don't deserve any of that, either. Y'know, Allison..."
She regards her fellow Kindred with a puzzled expression, "What?"
He remarks, "If every single Jew left, say, this city tomorrow, it would absolutely collapse in on itself. Violent crime would skyrocket, educational standards would plummet, and everything would get even worse. This country would be a complete shambles without our brains, our money, our power, and our influence."
Allie shrugs, "Um...sure."
Mr. Greenberg goes on, "And then you'd have people like that low-IQ schvartze- Cedric- running things. Riots and looting would become the norm- that's what'd happen if each and every single Jew- us included- upped and left."
Ms. Moretta points out, "I mean, that's the idea, isn't it? I only came to this country from Israel to help the Bnei Hashem realize their long-stated goals. It's why I left my homeland, after all. But not a--a day goes by when I don't dream of being back in the kibbutzim again. And walking the streets of Haifa. Oh, how I miss those warm summer nights..."
The warped man deludedly reassures her, "Oh, you'll be back. So will I. And we'll rule over Eretz Yisrael. All of it. Not the pitiful parcels of land that are currently under our control. Once we drive out those so-called Palestinians, we'll expand or borders and take our rightful place as leaders...rulers."
"Leaders, eh? Rulers, huh?"
Amos plainly nods, "Yes. And I very much intend to lead my people into a new era. An era of greatness. An era where we're no longer constrained by- or answerable to- the goyim and their so-called laws and institutions."
Allie raises a brow and chuckles, "Is this the Rebbe or Meir Kahane you're citing? Hey, don't get me wrong, I love both of them."
Amos stares at his fingers and inquires, "Can you paint a--a portrait of Meir Kahane for me sometime soon?"
Allison smirks, "Sure. It'll cost you the usual. Any particular style?"
He gestures to the black-and-white portrait of the crazy Chabad Rebbe on the wall, "Whatever that style was. Same one will do. And thank you, Allison. Your...friendship is greatly appreciated. As is your support...and tenacity. Heh, let's never forget that."
Allie shrugs, "And appetite for gore and violence- which is as huge as yours, apparently."
"We do what we have to do to secure the existence of our people and a future for our children. Even though neither of us are able to...have kids in the traditional sense, we can still make sure that the Jews will endure and prevail."
"Have you ever thought of Embracing someone?"
"Not in the Domain of this schvartze- too many complications and risks. You?"
"I'm not particularly comfortable with that idea. Taking a--a Childe is an immense responsibility, Amos, one that I'm not ready to shoulder...ever. I just--"
Amos cuts her off, "I know, I know. You wish to be left alone with your paintings and drawings or whatever else you wanna do. Like I said, Allie, you're the one who came to us, remember? To me, anyway. Don't think I'll forget that anytime soon."
Allison rubs the base of her neck, "Uh-huh. So, you need any help shaking your tenants down?"
Amos puffs his massive chest out and shakes his head, "Nah. I think I can manage. It wouldn't be the first time I've had to...resort to violence to get what's rightfully owed to me. Go on, make yourself scarce."
Allison holds up her phone and points out, "Not gonna tell me what to say to her?"
He shoves her out the door, "No. I already told you what you gotta do to keep her around. Figure the rest out. Besides, a lot of it would involve sex- keep her AWAY from her investigations, especially that one, and don't let her learn about our existence."
She finger-salutes him in a sarcastic manner, "Will do, sir. If I get the chance to fuck her, I'm gonna fuck her. And bite her, too. Hmm." Allie licks her lips and ponders on what Lena's blood might taste like.
Amos grunts and slams the door in Allison's face. She glares at him through the peephole before she turns on her heels and walks off. While striding to the elevator, she decides on what to type back to the PI, who is still online and awaiting a response.
The elevator doors hiss open. Allison steps into a wide and spacious elevator with reflective metallic walls and braille buttons. She presses the button for the ground floor and glances at herself in the mirror.
"Not too shabby for an artiste, haha!"
The False Assamite trills her lips and eventually decides to go with: "I totally understand how that feels, Lena. Being busy and all. Oh, believe me, more than anything right now, I want to meet you in-person. Let me get my shit sorted out and then we'll do something...nice."
Lena responds with a simple thumbs-up and heart emoji. Allison smiles to herself. The elevator dings and the doors open.
She leaves the building and strolls down the street with a certain air of smugness about her. She looks up at the windows of the duplex penthouse building and vaguely spots a muscular silhouette pacing back and forth.
Allison blows a kiss to Amos and laughs as she makes her way to her next destination.
Back to Lena...
Ms. Adams sets her phone aside with a wistful sigh. Her mind is reeling from that...rather interesting conversation. She rubs her arms and leans against the headrest of her bed.
Poor Lena, being led on like this. Such foul monsters, of course, don't emerge out of an empty vacuum. They are a part and parcel of a monstrous system that fosters and enables such behaviors and outlooks.
Lena shakes her head, totally unaware of the trap that she will soon stumble into. For now, she calls Yvonne up.
"Hey, hey, hey, gurl. You got a date tonight?"
"I wish. So...uh..."
"Yeah, my offer still stands. Why don't you come on over and we can do our thang, hmm? Snuggle up under a blanket, talk about our respective weeks...and we'll see where stuff goes from there. What say you?"
Lena bites her lower lip, "Oh, I--I'd love that very much." Her tone is so breathy and laden with lust.
Yvonne herself feels all hot and bothered just hearing it, "I've missed you, y'know? Come on over. Pink blanket or red one?"
"P--pink."
Yvonne chuckles, "Pretty in pink. I'll get it outta the closet and wait for you. I can't wait to cuddle up with you...again."
Lena stammers and feels a wetness gathering in her panties, "N--neither can I. T--thanks. I'll be there s--soon. I am so...fucking tired, Yvonne. This has been a rollercoaster of--of a week."
Yvonne smiles softly, "You can tell me all 'bout it when you get here, OK? Come on over, I'll be waiting for ya. And what do you wanna watch? Movies? Shows? News? Weather reports? Cartoons?"
Lena sighs, "Anything's alright with me. It's your house, so...yeah."
"Mi casa and all that shit, gurl. Now, go on. Get dressed. Something easy to slip out of, you hear??"
"Haha, sure. I'll see you soon. I--I can't wait to hold you in my arms again."
Yvonne coos, "And I can't wait to hold YOU in my arms, gurl." Every word is suggestively laced with sensuality and horny longing.
It's gon' be a cuddly snuggle sesh (and something more, hopefully)!
Mere minutes later...
Yvonne's joint is a few miles away from the uptown district. Even then, it's still quite far away from Lena's house. Thankfully, the competent metro system in the city means that she doesn't have to drive and spend hours stuck in bumper-to-bumper traffic.
The street is somewhat narrow. A few mobile homes are spotted along the road. Some of the lawns are overgrown and the sidewalks are partially cracked.
Yvonne does live in a somewhat neglected part of Magnolia City. A chain-link fence surrounds her home. A worn-out basketball court is nestled in the backyard.
The house next to hers has a massive (albeit rusted) "BEWARE OF DOGS" sign loosely hanging from a chain-link fence.
A small garden in front of Yvonne's place is overgrown with weeds and untamed shrubbery. The house in question is a quaint little one-story affair. Sloped black roof, decent white paint, and a brick-and-mortar foundation.
Yvonne's car (which she rarely uses) is parked out front. It's an unremarkable, off-white sedan with some rust stains on the hood. The insurance on this thang alone is insane!
The house itself is well-lit. The surrounding streetlamps do occasionally flicker, and the nearest streetlight is out. It's quite dark in the vicinity of Yvonne's place.
Lena is dressed in a red t-shirt with some random number on it and a pair of loose jeans. Her sneakers are a bit worn out and scuffed. She makes her way to the door and gives it a quick knock. She quickly adjusts her ponytail while waiting for Yvonne to answer.
Yvonne opens up in a matter of seconds. Ms. Wright is a tall African American woman with full lips, expressive and trimmed eyebrows, lovely brown eyes, and voluminous hair that curls in spiraling ringlets around her head.
She is a year older to Lena and works in retail as a cashier.
Yvonne's glossy lips curl up into a smirk as she sees who's standing at her doorstep.
She pulls her friend in for a tight hug and sways from side to side while holding her close.
Yvonne is clad in a sleeveless vest and short shorts. Lena gets a good look at them thighs and feels familiar tingling sensations between her legs. They make their way inside and sit down on the couch.
The house's interior is quite...homely and welcoming, albeit a tad messy. Lots of random clutter dotted about. Notably, there is a big, framed picture of Ladonna Hughes (a queer and black singer from the decades past who tragically took her own life after a sustained campaign of media fabrications and government hounding) on the mantle.
Yvonne puts her warm hands on the sides of Lena's head and gives her a once-over, "Look at you! How you been, huh?"
Lena smiles and answers, "Good, I guess. You?"
"The same. C'mon, let's get all cozy, hmm?"
"Let's!" Lena says, with a bit of earnestness tinging her voice.
There's a small TV on a wooden table, random bits and bobs of technology all over the place, and some framed posters on the walls.
Lena's amber eyes flit over to Ladonna's picture and she remarks, "What they did to her...was wrong, wasn't it?"
Yvonne grabs the blanket and wraps it around both of them. She nods, "Mm-hmm. Times was different back then and all, but it was no excuse. They dragged her through the mud. But she...had the voice of an angel, gurl."
Lena rests her head on Yvonne's shoulder and comments, "You sound like you knew her."
"I heard of some guy who claimed to have a recording of hers- a really rare one. Or so I'm told. I was thinking of buying it off of him. It's gon' cost me, but it'll be worth it."
Lena's eyes light up, "Really?? I heard some of her songs, but...I'd love to hear a recording that isn't available anywhere else."
Yvonne sighs and twirls Lena's jet-black hair around her index finger, "Yeah. I've heard rumors of her having done a lotta recordings for stuff that was never released...but I gotta go down South to meet with this guy."
"Oh, wow. What does he want? I mean, how much does he want? And where exactly is he?"
Yvonne chuckles, "Ah, always one with the questions, huh?"
Lena clicks her tongue, "I'm just concerned about your safety. You--you mean a lot to me."
"And you mean just as much to me, gurl. It's Grover City. Deep South. Just like Atlanta, Georgia in so many ways. Now, what say you and me watch something?"
"You haven't answered my other questions..."
"He wants two-hundred bucks for the recordings. Some blind guy who owns a music store called uh...one sec, lemme...grab my phone real quick, OK?"
Yvonne wiggles out of the blanket and makes a beeline to her smartphone on the kitchen table. She comes back and cuddles up to Lena again. The PI is still waiting for an answer.
Lena narrows her eyes and reads out, "Planet Gaia, home of the beats. Huh. That's a pretty odd name for what seems to mainly be a record shop. Are you sure that this is legit?"
Yvonne shrugs, "Sure seems that way to me. Why? You gettin' some kind of PI-sense that tells you otherwise?"
Lena places her head on Yvonne's ample bosom and feels a blush spreading across her face when she hears the rhythmic beating of the woman's heart, "Hmm. I dunno. Just promise me that you'll be careful, alright?"
Yvonne interlocks her fingers with Lena's and says, "You know me, I'm always careful."
"Promise me."
"Fine. I promise. There. Happy?"
"Mm-hmm. So, what's on TV, hmm? And please, no more fucking superhero movies. I can't stand that shit anymore. Ugh. Even cheesy romcoms aren't that nauseating. And please, no goddamn spy flicks, either. I have standards, y'know?"
Yvonne laughs, "Hahaha! Yeah, me too! Let's check on the news!" With her free hand, she uses the remote control to switch to the local news station.
After a commercial break, the news anchor begins his report, "And in other news, more reports of
mayor gavin newcastle
PG owner says he has best ears in the industry. is that cuz he blind? how he ever get his hands on her rare recordings, huh? beats me.