Title: Vampire: The Masquerade- The Velvet Curtain
By: Paddy
Writing Start Date: 13th August, 2026
Writing End Date: ongoing
Fandoms: World Of Darkness (WOD), Vampire: The Masquerade (VTM), Changeling: The Lost (CTL), Orpheus
Genre(s): Horror, Urban Fantasy, Drama, Thriller, Intrigue, Action-Adventure, Gothic Punk, Gothic Horror, Supernatural, Tragedy, Magical Realism, Modern Gothic, Political Horror, Social Horror, Economic Horror
Summary: Where? Magnolia City. When? 201X. Lena Adams is about to find out just what- and who- is on the other side of that velvet curtain. Not all is at it seems in this city. Old rivalries will come to the fore...and the very same velvet curtain shall be torn asunder. Will Lena and those near and dear to her be left standing by the time the velvet curtain is ripped apart?
Content/Trigger Warnings: Intense Violence, Blood & Gore, Torture, Strong Language, Slurs, Bigotry/Hate, Racism, Queerphobia, Sexual Content/Scenes, Full & Partial Nudity, Alcohol/Substance Consumption, Smoking, Drug Usage, Human & Animal Death, Xenophobia, and so on.
Mirrors/Alternative Places To Read:
Additional Notes:
Inspirations (Not ALL of them, just the main ones):
WOD: The God-Machine Chronicle Anthology | Tales Of The Dark Eras
VTM: Night Road | Out For Blood | Parliament Of Knives | Sins Of The Sires | Coteries Of New York | Shadows Of New York | We Eat Blood And All Our Friends Are Dead | Reckoning Of New York | Clans Of London | Walk Among Us
CTL: The Huntsmen Chronicle Anthology | Hollow Courts
Orpheus: Haunting The Dead
...And many more.
Chapter One: Lena Adams
Where?
Magnolia City, USA.
When?
201X.
Who?
She walks down a busy sidewalk. It's a bright, sunny day, the sky a bright shade of blue. She's dressed in a beige duffle coat, slim-fitting slacks and black boots. A pair of inexpensive sunglasses cover her eyes.
Before heading for work, she always stops by the coffee shop off West Street. The bell rings as she pushes the door open. The hubbub of conversation is the first thing that hits her, and she lets her eyes adjust to the interior.
There's a young, blonde barista behind the counter, wearing a tight-fitting black top with a vague, cartoony image of a skull printed on it. The skull is winking. The barista's feet are already aching.
The frantic and chaotic bustle of the coffee shop doesn't let up. Inner-city youth are oft wont to frequent this "hip" establishment. The other minimum wage baristas are baggy-eyed and gaunt- they idly shamble back and forth, prepping coffee for demanding customers.
She takes off her sunglasses, revealing a pair of appealing amber eyes. She waits in line and has a guarded expression on her face.
A young man with spiked hair and an over-sized shirt orders a large espresso.
When the line thins, she finally reaches the counter. The barista smiles, revealing a pair of sparkling braces. His smile is as though a puppeteer has forced his cheekbones to move upwards.
"Hello, what can I get for you?" he asks, trying not to sound so dull and monotonous.
"Can I have a small Americano?" she asks, sparing him a look of sympathy.
"Sure. That'll be uh..." the barista trails off while typing up the order into the cash register. He stares at the glowing screen blankly.
She produces her card; the barista swipes it and hands the machine for her to enter her PIN. She does so without any fuss. After that, she produces some kind of scratch card from her purse.
The barista has a knowing look on his gaunt face. He snatches it from her, clicks a pen and fills in the fifteenth circle. When he's done, he hands it back to her.
He dryly says, "Your twenty-fifth will be free. Keep at it, Miss Adams."
She nods back at him and patiently waits for her coffee, taking a quiet spot in the corner of the shop. She clasps her hands together and waits. Her burgundy fingernails gleam as they reflect the soft interior light.
The barista makes her drink, writes her full name on the styrofoam cup with a sharpie, and calls out, LENA ADAMS! Got a small Americano for Lena Adams."
Lena gets up, grabs the coffee, thanks the employees for their hospitality, and leaves. The bell rings as she pushes the door open. Her jet-black hair is tied up into a high ponytail held in place by a red scrunchie.
She walks down the busy sidewalk while sipping on her usual morning beverage. Faint traces of brick-red lipstick stain the rim of the styrofoam cup.
Smatterings of wispy clouds float by in the blue sky. The sidewalk is crowded with the usual assortment of office drones, tourists, students of all types, and hipsters.
In more ways than one, this Northwestern metropolis is a pretty diverse, vibrant, and interesting place!
Lena turns and takes a left. She walks for half a block until she comes across a set of steps leading down to an underground train station. Namely, Crystal Street Station.
Crystal Street Station is nothing short of an architectural marvel- much like many other structures in Magnolia City. High ceilings, polished marble, and a series of (mostly) working escalators. And it doesn't hurt that the trains...almost always (barring certain exceptional exceptions) arrive on time.
Lena deftly weaves through the throng of people, trying to keep her footing. Not that there are so many people currently present, but the morning rush hour tends, more often than not, to be quite chaotic.
Miss Adams steps onto the escalator, and it takes her down to the subway platform. She waits for the train, standing idly at the platform. She pulls out her makeup compact, flicks it open, and gives her face a quick once-over before tucking it away back into her purse.
She is an Asian American woman in her late twenties. Her complexion is warm. Her pert nose has a faint splash of blackheads across the bridge- something that has come to bother her since quite recently.
Her angular features are enhanced by the sunglasses that she's wearing.
Lena cranes her neck and always finds something new to marvel at in Crystal Street Station. Numerous little details that, upon a closer inspection, have a tendency to captivate her attention for a moment or two.
Or more.
The announcer on the speakers goes on about a train arriving on platform two. Lena's on platform five, so it doesn't really concern her. A minute later, his smooth voice bears some bad news.
"Pink line will be delayed owing to emergency rail works. Nothing too major, folks. We sincerely apologize for the inconvenience."
Lena huffs a sigh, "Ah, great. That's just perfect."
She walks over to the nearby map, scanning over it with narrowed eyes. While she's not late for work, she doesn't quite like showing up mere minutes before the workday officially begins- something (for better or for worse) that she inherited from her father, Yoshiro Akira.
Lena runs her finger across the map and thinks about her ailing father, wistfully wondering if she could do anything for him. Her amber eyes become unfocused, staring off into the farthest distance.
She is snapped out of her thoughts when her smartphone starts to ring. Her purse vibrates in her hand. She fishes it out and sees that it's her mother- Susie Adams- calling.
She taps the green button and raises the phone to her ear, "Mom. H--hi. Everything OK?" Lena's voice is a little deeper than usual, but there is still a certain appeal to it.
"Hello, darling," her mother's voice is a lot more relaxed and melodic. Very Midwestern, very much dripping with genuine honey and not the vague and self-absorbed fakery that so many other people tend to exhibit.
"Yeah, I'm fine. How's dad?"
Susie chuckles feebly, "Oh, you know how Yoshi gets."
"Yoshi", the cutesy nickname that she has for her husband.
Lena smiles a little and asks again, "No, but really, how is he?"
"Listen, you don't worry about the two of us, OK? We're more than capable of taking care of each other. Live your life in Magnolia City. Work hard, have fun, meet somebody special, the usual! And listen, hon, about the--"
Lena emphatically cuts her mom off, "No! I insist, OK?! I saw the horror show that is dad's medical bills! I AM sending you some money and you're accepting it, no arguments!"
Susie's sigh of resignation says it all, "Are--are you sure, hon? What about YOUR living expenses?"
"I'm fine, I'm managing. Somehow, I'm getting by."
"I'd holler for your dad to come say hi, but he's resting his legs, eyes, and everything on his usual spot."
"The chair on the porch outside?"
"Mm-hmm. Sometimes, I--I--check his pulse to make sure that...y'know?"
Lena tightly winces, "Mom..."
Susie's voice breaks and she sniffles, "Don't you worry about us, Lena. We--we're getting by just fine without you here. Hey, I can hear the choo-choo train in the background. Wait, aren't ya usually on it by now?"
Lena softly chuckles and looks over her shoulder, "Delays. Nothing outta the ordinary. Give dad my love, OK?"
"Alright, hon. Have a great day at work!"
"Yup, that's the plan, heh."
Susie's tone of voice is stern, and she speaks in a slow, measured cadence, "Honey, promise me one thing."
Lena blinks and tilts her head to one side, "Sure, mom. Anything."
Susie breathes in, breathes out and lowers her voice, "Promise me that you'll be careful out there, OK? I...occasionally read some stuff on websites about Magnolia City. Now, don't get me wrong: it's a beautiful place- as I'm sure you're well aware, haha! But...there are rumors floating around. About what really goes on out here."
The train hisses to a stop on platform five and the doors slide open. Lena narrows her eyes and walks inside while asking, "What do you mean, mom?"
"Don't you...know?"
"No? What are these websites, anyway? God, I sincerely hope that you're not falling for bullshit conservative conspiracy theories now. Ugh, mom, c'mon."
Susie sighs, "C'mon, hon, cut me some slack here. Like I'd ever lay eyes on those 'news' sites! No, I--I've heard things, read things that sound...legit. They say that there are some really dangerous folks living in the city."
Lena sits down on an unoccupied seat. The interior of this train is bright, sleek and modern- a far cry from the old, run-down cars that were efficiently done away with and replaced many, many years ago.
Lena counters, "Well, I mean, it's not like Indiana doesn't have its fair share of quote-unquote 'dangerous folk'. C'mon, mom, what are you trying to say?"
"I don't want to scare you, but...just be careful. I--I know you have the side...thing and all that. But when you're out there, doing that, just...promise your mother that you'll be careful, OK?"
Lena places her ankle on her knee, "You know that I am. I'm not stupid. Besides, my side 'thing' is actually something that I'm kinda proud of."
"Alright, alright. Don't get too cocky, missy."
Lena chuckles, "I love you, mom. Both you and dad."
Susie smiles broadly, "And we love you, too. We love you for who you are, no matter what. Always remember that."
The call ends. Lena throws her head back and sharply exhales. The train slows down, coming to a stop at its next destination. From there, it's a fairly short walk to her place of work.
Lena swipes her pass card at the turnstile gates, which then proceed to loudly and mechanically click into place. She walks onto the street and looks both ways before crossing the road.
Architecturally speaking, Lena's place of work- not just her office space- was done by the same people who did the Ford Foundation Center For Social Justice. The concrete is covered with gray-pink granite. It rises high up into the sky.
The interior is nothing short of breathtaking. The atrium has a multi-tiered garden that contains an array of rare and exotic plants from all over the world. At the very top is an observation deck that's open to the public.
An elegant fountain made of stone is right in the middle of the vast lobby. Water falls from the tip of a large, abstract monolith-looking sculpture and down into a shallow pool filled with coins.
The glass elevators are always available, and they whisk visitors up to their floors of choice. Lena's heels click against the polished floor as she walks across the atrium.
The rays of the sun stream in from the atrium, casting bright, yellow squares against the dark wood. Numerous office spaces and cubicles are located at every floor of this structure.
This place looks so very similar to the Ford Foundation Center For Social Justice, but it serves an entirely different function. And in a port city like this, that can be pretty relevant.
Numerous shipping companies have their corporate offices located on the topmost floors, along with other maritime-adjacent firms, water-tourism ventures, aqua-preservation initiatives, and so on and so forth and what have you.
The glass elevator takes Lena up to the second floor where the offices of Pluto Enterprises are to be found. Contrary to its name, it has nothing to do with the cosmos. In other words, just the generic, run-of-the-mill company in the Northwestern United States.
They do...stuff. Needless to say, no kids are gonna be job-shadowing their parents, older siblings, guardians, or relatives if said adults work in Pluto Enterprises. But they do pay their employees...decently.
There is far more to the surface than meets the eye.
Lena steps out of the elevator and walks over to the office space, which is located on the end of a long, narrow, and carpeted hallway. The aircon hums and cools the area to an agreeable temperature.
Large plexiglass windows allow sunlight to pour in. Several potted plants are neatly positioned along the expanse of the corridor. Dome-shaped surveillance cameras are positioned in such a way that nothing evades (or is even capable of evading) their line of sight.
The interior is decorated with various abstract- but tasteful- pieces of artwork. The walls are almost a duller shade of Lena's coat.
Security, for some reason, is taken rather seriously. An armed security guard (not of the rent-a-cop variety) runs a security wand over Lena's body, making sure that she isn't carrying any suspicious objects.
She agreeably complies but can't help but occasionally ask herself why such a mundane company would go through such elaborate measures. Hell, the NDAs that she had to sign were enough to set off more than two dozen alarm bells in her head.
Once the security guard is satisfied that Lena is in fact not a threat to the company, he gives her a nod, a practiced smile, and ushers her inside. Her purse slides across the Xray scanner and then into a retractable tray.
Lena slings it back over her shoulder, nods at the guard, and walks over to the sliding door. It gently hisses open once the green light turns on, revealing a bustling workspace.
A decent number of people are seated at their respective desks. An equal amount of them go to and fro, carrying armfuls of printouts and papers, walking off to do last-minute checks, grab a non-alcoholic drink, or have a quick smoke break.
Lena takes off her coat, revealing an off-white dress shirt underneath. She hangs it up and saunters over to her desk. She sits down on the squeaky maroon chair, its wheels slowly beginning to rotate.
She grabs her mouse, taps a few buttons to wake up the computer, and logs into her account. Her password is routinely changed by the people in IT. She receives an auto-deleting text message wherein she is ordered to memorize her password for the next thirty days.
This time around, it's "Pandas^TwoEight%$" (without the quotes).
Her fingers glide over the keyboard as she carefully types in her password. The monitor displays the company's homepage- a plain, dull, boring website that, admittedly, works just as intended. Her desktop background is fairly plain and usually on rotate.
This time, when she tabs out of the homepage, she's greeted by a picture of a sun-soaked vineyard somewhere in Italy along with a little factoid explaining the significance of that photo.
It's eight thirty in the morning. Work usually begins at eight forty-five, with a five-minute leeway given in case of delays.
The coffee machine on the far wall whirrs to life, spitting out a dark, black cup of joe. Lena's ears perk up at the whirring sound of the coffee machine. She...has a thing for coffee.
She swivels her chair, gets up, and walks over to the coffee machine. She gives it a once-over and ensures that the machine is filled, untampered with, and working properly.
Lena shall be paying this machine a visit more than five times during the duration of her workday.
Her job at the office is...eh. It pays the rent, bills, food provisions, cleaning supplies, and just enough left over for the occasional want.
For whatever reason, all of the cabinets here are biometrically locked. The only access-point that exists for this is a fingerprint scanner. Lena's thumb puts some pressure on the pad, and she watches the doors pop open.
Lena's job description is something along the lines of office clerk and admin assistant. Not glam or fancy by any stretched-up stretch of the stretchy imaginations!
But, to Lena, the paycheck is what counts at the end of the day. Her labor does sorta count as "skilled", not like the distinction ever had any genuine meaning in the first place- just another justification for the bourgeoisie to arbitrarily categorize and exploit people.
And this is precisely the sort of workplace where exploitation is...silent and unspoken of. Lena had to sign a pledge to not join any unions (or even commit the dastardly thought crime of thinking about joining up with one), lest she's subjected to termination without severance pay.
Lena puts a stack of papers away in a sliding drawer, sighs, and grabs her first cuppa joe for the long day ahead. The workday officially ends at four forty-five in the afternoon- a good eight hours!
But the clock-watchers are already...eyeing the clocks with their baggy eyes. Like hawks, they refuse to blink as the big hand steadily ticks away. Ticktock, ticktock.
When the alarm on Lena's phone goes off, she lets out a soft yawn and stretches her arms out. She blinks many times and averts her gaze from the monitor, rubbing her eyes with her hands.
Lunchtime! That's why she set the alarm on her phone; she even set up a reminder on her computer. In case she's taking a call or forgets, the other helpful reminder will surely swoop in and save her from overworking and exerting herself.
Loathe as she might be to admit it, she does tend to push herself a bit too much.
There are plenty of small, cozy restaurants located on the ground floor, and Lena is on speaking terms with the majority of them. While she's not exactly a regular (sometimes, she brings lunch from home), she's known as a decent patron.
She walks past the joint that ONLY serves sushi. Despite being part Japanese herself, Lena can't stand the smell, texture, or feel of raw fish. And if she's on a date, she's just about to ready to walk the fuck out if the potential date drags her along to get Japanese food.
No hard feelings, but she's just not a fan. But her ethnicity has gotten her into one too many awkward and sticky situations than she cares to recount.
Lena goes for some pasta. Sautéed vegetables and two pieces of garlic bread accompany the main dish. She wraps her fork around the noodles, brings it up to her mouth, and begins to chew, slowly and carefully.
Nothing outta the ordinary, just a regular, boring meal that's sure to set her up for a satisfying evening- that's when the real fun begins.
She is, however, a bit concerned. What did her mother mean by "what really goes on" out here?
Lena has been living in Magnolia City ever since graduating from college. Hell, her first ever job was as an intern in the very same Pluto Enterprises; so, she's not only been with the company for quite a while, but a significant portion of her adult life has also been spent living in this city.
Lena asks for the check, pays the exact amount- nay a penny more- and leaves. She doesn't bother with tipping, believing it to be a useless gesture. A pointless attempt at papering over the pitiful pay of front-of-the-house restaurant staff.
Lena washes her hands, wipes them with the tissues, scrunches them up, and tosses them away in the appropriate garbage bin. She adjusts her hair, redoes her ponytail, and walks back out into the lobby.
Back upstairs, the guards nod and greet her, and she plainly returns the gesture without a smile on her face. She looks down at her phone and sees that there's still a few more hours to go till she's outta here.
The afternoon rolls by without any huge, fussy fusses being made. As soon as the sun sets, the sky takes on a purplish-orange color. It's just a little past five forty-five- girl shoulda been out of here an hour ago!
Lena groans, clicks her tongue, shuts off her computer, and trudges over to the coat rack. She slips into it with a practiced ease and heads out. She walks down the hallway, steps into the elevator, and taps the button for the lobby.
A cup of coffee warms her hands. The liquid is hot, sweet, and just the way she likes it. Lena likes her coffee in any way, just as long as it's coffee. Milk, no milk. Sugar, no sugar. Black, whatever. Americano, Espresso, this-cano, that-presso. Coffee is coffee and Lena is a sucker for it.
The elevators ding, and she steps out into the lobby.
Now, onto her side...gig. The hip kids these days call it a "side hustle".
Well, whatever the hell it's called, Lena's side thang is way more exciting than the dull and monotonous grind of her day job. She sits on a round, upholstered bench, folds her legs, and takes a moment to think things over.
And to get a bit of rest. This gig of hers is...demanding and kinda risky, too. But she happens to be quite good at it.
Once the coffee cup is drained, Lena stares into the emptiness therein and shakes her head, "Could use another cup." She tosses the cup away and sashays out of the lobby.
The sky above is slowly darkening. A warm breeze wafts throughout the busy streets of Magnolia City. People are everywhere, all of them headed to some place or the other.
Lena proceeds to walk along the usual route- her "office" is actually quite close to her main place of employment, so that's convenient for her. Not that she necessarily likes that, but it sorta saves up on the commute.
She walks at a brisk pace, keeping her head down and her hands shoved deep into her coat pockets.
The brownstone building isn't as tall as the place where Pluto Enterprises is located. Moreover, it's starting to show its age in certain aspects. There are many cracks along the lower portions of the exterior walls.
The air inside is musty, a tad muggy, and stinks of old-ass paint. But the rent required for Lena's office is on the...cheaper side of things. The elevator is out of order.
Lena rolls her eyes and trudges up the stairs. Her little, humble office is located on the fifth floor, and her feet take her there without any hesitation. The coffee that she's been drinking certainly helps!
The interior- much like the exterior- is also showing its age. Water damage runs across the walls, the carpet is frightfully discolored, and the lights are flickering.
Oddly enough, many amateur filmmakers come to this location to film their nineteen-forties noir films. The aesthetic is quite fitting, considering that this building hasn't really been seriously touched since then!
The text on the door simply reads: "LENA ADAMS | PRIVATE INVESTIGATOR" in black block letters and bold print. She's been meaning to get it changed when a person had some difficulty reading the letters, citing certain corneal issues.
Yep, she's a private investigator. A PI. A snoop. A sleuth. A gumshoe. But even after all these years, Lena is still an amateur at it.
But all that was about to change tonight. Soon and very soon, she shall be dragged into a world that she never even knew existed.
A world of secrets. A world...of darkness.
Lena opens the door and heads inside. Her cheeks puff as she exhales sharply and takes off her coat. She hangs it on the coat rack, removes the red scrunchie from her hair, tosses her hair around, and runs her fingers through her scalp.
She lets her hair hang loose and flips the light switch on. She blinks a couple of times and lets her eyes adjust.
A messy oak desk dominates a majority of this relatively tiny space. Rickety filing cabinets (sans fingerprint lock, heh-heh), stacks of overflowing boxes, a few wooden chairs, and fewer assorted potted plants are what the interior consists of.
Lena pours a half-empty bottle of water into the plants sitting by the windowsill. Their leaves look a bit yellowish, withered, and lackluster.
"Ah, shit. I haven't been taking care of them, haven't I? Oh, well..."
Lena shrugs and plops herself down onto the brown leather chair- a far cry from that squeaky maroon chair, that's for sure! She spins around a few times, kicks her feet up on the desk, and leans back, closing her eyes.
She flatly tells herself, "Any second now..."
Many seconds later...
The warm wind wafts in through the open window and causes the rainbow pride flag on her desk to flutter. Her ears do not pick up on any footsteps or anything of the like. The main office door doesn't even creak open.
Lena sighs, wiggles her toes, and slumps deeper into the chair.
She doesn't have any appointments today- this whole thing is very much a one-woman operation. She seeks the potential clientele out (either through word-of-mouth or advertising her services on websites like Facebook and Craigslist) and does her duties accordingly.
Lena gathers the info, writes up all the contracts, and sends the client on their merry way...or in tears when she has to confirm the worst by telling the client that their spouse is indeed having that affair.
She has been doing this for some time now, so this routine of hers has become somewhat predictable. The DSLR camera sitting on one of her filing cabinets is still powered up and ready to go, though.
Lena opens her eyes for a moment, briefly surveys the area, and shuts them back. She allows her muscles to relax, but not so much so that she's sleeping. Caffeine still surges through her veins.
And she'd never ever consider skipping her nightly cup of coffee.
A little over many seconds later...
Lena pokes her head out of her humble office and narrows her eyes. The other spaces rented out on this floor are occupied by varying small businesses that put the "small" in small business.
Since there's no place to fit a photocopy machine in her office, Lena has an arrangement with the dingy office a few paces away from her. Unlike hers, it has been done up with bead curtains and colorful, shiny things that catch the eye.
Mr. Troy Porter runs said office along with his wife of fifty years. Troy is an old African American man with frizzy gray hair and droopy eyes. He's slim and often dresses in khakis with the checkered shirt tucked in.
His business has something to do with the distribution and manufacturing of water purifiers- the industrial kind and not the fancy home and garden stuff.
Troy greets Lena, "Lena...here to chat or use my copy machine? Not that I don't mind, but you don't got no clients right now, so why not?" He turns his head down and peers at her through his thick-rimmed spectacles.
Lena shrugs, "Sure. How's your wife doing, Troy?"
Troy chuckles, "I'm lookin' forward to the next fiddy with that woman by my side."
While the printers at work are ten times fancier (laser!), Troy's aging inkjet printer will have to suffice. Moreover, Pluto Enterprises expressly forbids employees from utilizing company property for personal and/or recreational use. Even if it is an emergency, PE employees are prohibited from using company equipment.
Troy's office is also quite cozy and warm, which Lena doesn't mind.
He mixes a cup of tea with a bent spoon and asks, "So, how's the PI game these days?"
Lena dryly answers, "Still the same old, same old. Affairs take up almost all of my cabinet space."
"A damn shame, all that infidelity and such. 'Bout as bad as a malevolent foot fungus, I'd say."
Lena is not really one to pass moral judgment around like that. A job's a job and she gets paid (somewhat handsomely but not quite) to do what she does. The clients come in with their money and problems, the PI does her snooping, she gets paid, they usually leave (relieved or teary-eyed) and that's it.
Professionals are said to have standards, and Lena Adams is very much a professional. She also maintains some necessary distance (emotional or otherwise) from her work.
Troy goes on, "So, what was that you said when we first met? PI for the...?"
As if by reflex, Lena's lips form into a thin, barely noticeable smile, "A Private Investigator for the public good. That's...what I aspire to be. But I dunno, Troy. All I do is follow cheating spouses- alleged or otherwise- around with my DSLR, hide in bushes, and tail people. I don't do anything..."
Troy takes a sip of his tea and completes her thought, "More? Meaningful?"
"E--exactly!"
"Took the words outta your mouth, didn't I? Don't worry, you'll find something. One of these days, somebody's gonna come waltzing in through them doors and they're gonna need your help, girl. The question is..."
Lena leans closer and narrows her eyes a bit, "Hmm?"
Troy also leans closer, his wrinkled and weathered face contorting into a crooked grin, "Are you the right woman for the job? Will you be up to the task?"
Lena ponders over this, shrugs, and nods. Troy gives her an understanding smile and pats her on the back. He hobbles away to get another cup of tea for himself. He hollers out, "Anytime you need anything, just swing by. Hell, we practically neighbors."
Ms. Adams chuckles, shakes her head, and grabs the printouts from Troy's inkjet printer. Mostly legal stuff, licensing requirements, tax forms, and other such boring, dull paperwork that is all part and parcel of being a gumshoe in this city.
While perusing over these documents, Lena hears footsteps at the edge of the hallway. Her ears twitch as she lifts her head and sees a man in his early forties nervously standing outside.
He has a slightly bewildered expression on his face, his brow furrows, and he stammers, "Ah...Lena...Adams? PI?" The man speaks with a Southern twang that is hard to pinpoint.
"Yes, that would be me. And you are...?"
He takes off his red trucker cap, ruffles his greasy hair, and enters Lena's office. He sticks out his hand for Lena to shake. He's thin, wiry, and on the shorter side. His skin is pallid and there are really dark bags underneath his blue eyes.
Lena shakes his hand and motions for him to sit down. He does, placing his cap on his lap and rubbing the palms of his hands together. A nervous shiver runs down his spine as he looks around, his eyes scanning over the PI's small office.
The PI presents a calm, non-threatening, non-judgmental aura as she leans back into her own chair. She waits for him to make the necessary introduction and how he found out about her services.
The man stammers, "M--my name's Jake Woodward and I found out about you on uh...Craigslist."
"Ah. And how may I help you this evening, Mr. Woodward?"
"C--call me Jake, please. No need to be so formal. M--mind if I call you Lena?"
Lena shrugs, "Sure thing, whatever you're comfortable with. So, Jake, how may I help you this evening?"
Jake takes a deep breath; his hands incessantly tremble when he lets it out. He clasps them together and squeezes tightly. It is clear that this man is in a great deal of distress.
Lena side-eyes him, "Are you OK? Would you like me to get you a glass of water or coffee??"
Jake frantically shakes his head and politely declines. His pupils are dilated and his fingers twitch. He looks around her office one more time and averts his gaze. Lena patiently waits for him to continue speaking.
He gathers his composure and begins, "I'd like to hire you."
As a way of showing genuine interest, she leans forward and nods, "I'm all ears. What seems to be the problem, Jake?"
"My--my son, Tyler."
"OK? And is Tyler in some kind of trouble?"
Jake looks at Lena with his bloodshot eyes and says in a quivering voice, "No. He--he's dead."
Lena winces, "I'm sorry to hear that. How old was he?"
Jake pauses for a moment before he replies, "He was fourteen years old. It...it was a hit-and-run when he was walking home from school. MCPD treated it as an open-and-shut case."
Lena shakes her head, "That's terrible. What exactly happened?"
Jake scratches his chin, "The cops dropped the case so quickly. My wife was...devastated by how the authorities treated us like--like we were crooks or something. And I wasn't doing too good, myself. I'm a truck driver, so I'm out most weeks. We moved all the way from Tennessee to Magnolia City for my son's sake. But when...when he was killed, it really turned our--our whole world upside-down."
Lena's expression turns sympathetic, "I can imagine. How long ago was this, if you don't mind me asking?"
"A few weeks back. The MCPD treated us as suspects, insinuated that us country bumpkins from the South didn't raise our boy right, didn't teach him to look both ways before crossing--"
Tears freely flow down the bereaved father's cheeks. He chokes on his words, his lower lip quivers, and he clenches his jaw, "He--he...he was a very smart boy, Lena. Had a three-digit IQ, he did. That's why we moved here; a school in Tennessee couldn't provide him the kind of environment that he needed."
"I am truly sorry for your loss. Did the MCPD at least manage to track down the vehicle used in the hit-and-run?"
Jake shakes his head, "No, miss, they did not. And every second since our boy didn't come home from school, we--we were besides ourselves, my wife and I. And the hell that came after was...just beyond description. Cops kept questioning us, hounding us about what we know."
He adds, "My wife shrieked when she saw our boy in lying flat in that cold morgue. All banged up, bruised, broken, bloody and...gone. Autopsy said that he was run over and left on the street to die. Happened at night and on some road where them cameras don't have any coverage."
Lena feels that he has more to say.
The distressed man sniffs, "It gets worse. The authorities weren't just unhelpful- we're from Tennessee, so we have our fair share of that- they were hostile to us, Lena. My wife, she...couldn't handle it, could barely stand up straight after the cops left our house. They asked us all kinds of nasty, unpleasant questions and we tried our best to cooperate."
He stares at the rainbow pride flag on her desk, "She...was truly a sweet, sweet woman. I was sleeping- long day, y'know how it can be for truckers, heh. The power suddenly went off. It was late and I--I only got up cuz I heard some kinda electrical buzzing sound. But when I went to the bathroom..."
Jake found his wife in the fully filled (to the point of overflowing) bathtub, dead. She electrocuted herself with an appliance- hence the sudden power outage.
His lips tremble when he recalls, "Her--her eyes looked so glazed over. It's like the life itself had left them long before, Lena. Like--like she died even before she took such a drastic step to end things."
Lena clenches her jaw, "I'm really sorry to hear that. This is...oh my god, this is truly awful."
Jake softly mutters, "Thank you. I--I don't know if you have experience in investigating murders, but I wanna hire you to find out who did this. I'm not a vengeful or violent man. I just want answers, Lena. I just wanna find the bastard who ran my boy over and drove on without stopping to see what they'd done."
Jake places his sweaty palms on the table and gives her the most earnest stare that she's ever seen, "Please, help me find out what happened. I don't have much money- funeral expenses and all- but I WILL find a way to pay you."
Lena feels a tug on her heartstrings. Jake's tone of voice is full of emotion and there is something to it that she just can't deny or turn away from. The man is so beset by grief and loss that it shows through and through.
She takes a deep breath, "Alright, Jake, I'll take the case. And...I'm also waiving my usual fee."
Jake's disbelief shows clearly on his face, "No, Lena, I can't let you do that. I--I got a little, we could do installments, we could--"
Lena holds out her hand, palm facing the potential client, "Nuh-uh. I insist, please. And I have to admit something to you, it's only fair. This will be my first ever murder investigation. But I am a fully licensed, legit, and qualified professional PI in this city, and I've been doing this for quite some time now."
Jake nods and lets out a sigh of relief, "I understand. And...thank you for your honesty. So, how does this work, Lena? I tried gettin' the case files that the cops have, but for some reason, they're not interested in letting me see them."
Lena pats the table and says, "We'll start from the beginning, OK? By law, they should give you the case files. Them holding it back already sets off a few alarm bells- then again, it's the MCPD, so we can't exactly trust them to do the right thing here. I'll look into that first. In the meantime, I need to dig into the scene of the crime."
Jake gulps and coughs, "Anything you need. We tried gettin' a vigil set up near where Tyler was killed, but the permits still haven't come through...till now."
"I'm honestly not surprised by that. And tell me, how has your experience with the Magnolia City Police Department been?"
Jake sharply exhales, "About as bad and unpleasant as you'd expect. We told them everything- when Tyler was supposed to be back home, if he was running late, what he had for lunch, if he was involved in any kinda things that he shouldn't be involved in..."
Lena clears her throat, "I have to ask this- it's a part of my job- but do you think that there's anybody who might've had it out for your son and wanted to hurt him? A kid his age, someone else from school, a relation of his, his teachers, his classmates?"
Jake is visibly shaken when he replies, "I--I dunno. No! We've only been living here a few months, barely got the time to know anyone, let alone get into a fight or anything. The only kids that he had any interaction with were at his school. They were geniuses like him, but they were good company, good kids."
"I see. Did your son frequently walk home from school or did you drive him?"
Jake shrugs, "Walked, mostly. My wife drove him whenever she could. But he loved waking up early in the morning and...walking to school."
He wistfully smiles a little and puts in, "It's Magnolia City. Beautiful place to raise a smart boy. We wanted to get him his metro card so he could take the fancy subway trains and all that. He was looking forward to that...we all were."
Lena queries, "Do you happen to know the detective assigned to the case?"
Jake scratches his head, "Gram...uh...something. I dunno, Lena. It's been...hectic. Having to bury both my wife and son within such a short span of time really...took its toll on me. We're trying to keep Tyler's passing private; I don't want or need those vultures in the media getting wind of this."
Lena groans when she hears who the investigating detective might be, "Oh, him. Great. Yeah, you've got a point there, Jake. Once the media gets a whiff of something as troubling as the death of a child, they'll do their best to exploit this, spin this in all kinds of fucked up directions and..."
She trails off, not wanting to finish that sentence.
Jake nods along, "Mm-hmm. I just want my family to have some shred of dignity, y'know? So, you'll do it, then? F--free of charge? Are you sure, I mean--"
Lena equably says, "I'm doing it for free. After all, I'm a Private Investigator for the public good. And it's my first ever murder investigation, so charging you would be unfair to the both of us. You've...already suffered enough loss, Jake. I don't wanna burden you with any more unnecessary expenses."
Jake wipes his face, sniffles, and profusely thanks her again. He gets up and promises to send everything over to Lena as soon as he returns home- he doesn't have much in the way of info and details, but he says that he'll manage to get some more for her so that she can begin investigating.
He departs with the promise to send her some vital stuff by email. Lena's email ID is on the same Craigslist page that he found her through, so that should make things easier for the both of them.
Lena shakes her head and forces out a harsh sigh, "God. A kid. Sheesh. I better not screw this up..." She leans back into her chair, shuts her eyes, and spins around for a moment before standing up and walking over to the window.
She watches Jake put on his cap and walk away with a hunched posture. The warm summer wind wafts through and blows Lena's jet-black hair around.
Ms. Adams looks up at the dark sky. Her amber eyes linger on the higher buildings obscuring the stars. She purses her lips and decides to pay someone a quick visit.
She mumbles to herself, "Tyler from Tennessee. Tennessee Tyler. I'll have to draw up a contract, get the paperwork done, and do some more research. But I'm gonna need some advice on this one. My first ever murder investigation...not at all what I was expecting."
Lena stops and clicks her tongue, "And there I go, monologuing like a fucking noir detective. C'mon, break out of the mold. I'm better than this. I have to be if I wanna help Jake catch his son's killer."
She snaps her fingers and promptly sets out to get her coffee cup filled. After that, she locks up her office, heads downstairs, and out into the streets. Time to pay an old friend a visit!
Mere minutes later...
Lena finds herself standing in front of a condominium located in a more...quaint area. This particular condo is a lot smaller than the ones situated around it. It goes up for about a dozen floors, with four condos per floor. Not that it matters much, anyway. She's not here for the view.
Or to find a place to rent.
This is where her mentor- Michael Hayes- resides.
The eco-brutalist structure was completed a decade ago. The condos are located close enough to the waterfront to allow for some decent views of the city's skyline.
The PI jabs her index finger on the intercom button, "Michael. You in?"
His voice crackles out of the speaker, "Lena Adams. I'll buzz you up. This is a pleasant surprise!" His accent is familiarly Midwestern. He's had this tone to his voice since she first met him and was under his tutelage. And he's still the same man that she remembers after all these years.
Michael's joint is located on the second floor. Lena's energetic enough (all that coffee) to take the stairs- two at a time- up to his door. She knocks and the door opens almost immediately.
A man in his early sixties, with grayish, white-flecked, messy hair, a clean-shaven face, and a bright smile, welcomes her into his home. He's dressed in a red robe tied tightly around his waist.
Like the exterior of this condominium complex, the interior has a very Art Deco aesthetic to it. Michael's taste for the avant-garde and modern is apparent as his decor consists of old-world chic- the styles compliment each other well enough. The overall look is one that makes Lena feel...safe.
Michael sits on a long loveseat and languidly gestures for his former mentee to sit wherever she likes.
She takes off hear coat and sits directly opposite him on a single seater.
Michael relaxes and begins, "And to what do I owe the pleasure of this visit, hmm? A case bothering you and you need my advice?"
"Uh-huh. You could say that. Got a walk-in this evening- found me on Craigslist. Son got murdered, so I took the case- free of charge since it's only fair. My first ever murder investigation."
Michael is impressed, "Well, look at you. Finally breaking out of the rut of sordid affairs. Be honest with me, Lena. Did you really like following adulterous- allegedly or otherwise- spouses around, snapping pics on that DSLR of yours, and tailing them?"
She faintly chuckles, "Not really. But I have to make rent and pay my bills, you know? It's a job- like any other. And I do it well enough."
The soft and low lighting from the hanging lamp fixtures is soothing.
Lena adds, "It's not just any murder, you know? Kid got ran over. Cops came in, shrugged, moved on, and said that they're done with the investigation. Fuckers, tch. Dad's in a pretty bad shape. You know me, I don't like taking advantage of decent people in a time of need, so I offered my help for free."
Michael smiles a little, "That's what I've always liked about you. PI for the public good. It's a helluva tagline, haha! I think I might've heard something about what you're looking into. I think it was reported on a local radio station. Sad."
He gets up, pours himself a drink, and offers one to Lena. She politely declines. He sits back down with a slight groan and wiggles himself into a more comfortable position.
She goes on, "It is a sad case. A tragedy. I just hope that I don't let the client down. I have to find out who did this and ensure that some form of justice is served."
Michael takes a light sip of his scotch, "And you came here for advice. First time's always gonna be a bit rocky- you don't wanna bite off more than you can chew. OK, let's talk specifics. If you're comfortable with it."
Lena nods, "OK. You're a PI, you've been in this for a lot longer than I have. I get the gist of what I have to do when investigating a murder, but..."
"But you don't have the hands-on experience."
"Mm-hmm. All my hands-on experience is just affairs and kids asking me to find their crap- toys, rare collector's items, dolls, action figures, comic books, ugh...it's so...never mind. This is all new to me. And it's a pretty big case. Fucking it up isn't an option here."
Michael reassures her, "Don't worry, you won't. All you have to do is remember everything I ever taught you and every lesson I ever taught you. You've been studying, reading, practicing, and training- and I think that's proven to be quite effective."
He further asks, "How does your paperwork look? All good? Up to date? Ready to go?"
Lena nods and answers, "Yeah, pretty much."
Michael takes another small sip of his booze, "And how's the day job treating you?"
Lena couches her chin on her palm, "It's what I've been doing since graduation. It keeps me going, pays the bills, and seems alright. I'm good at it and Pluto Enterprises values my experience. The pay could be a little bit better, but that's nothing new."
He points at her, "Ask for a promotion, a raise, or both. You've been with 'em long enough to warrant something."
She shrugs a shoulder, "I'll try."
Mr. Hayes sets his glass aside and regards his guest, "I'm not a mind reader, Lena. Something's on your mind- that's why you came here. But unless you talk to me, I can't help you."
"Hmm. It's just that...I wanna help my client. I don't wanna let him down, accidentally pin the blame on the wrong people, or--or fuck anything else up."
"Mm-hmm. Don't worry, you won't. If my mentoring is any indication of what your talent is like, then I know for sure that you'll pull through." The reassuring grin on his face is the epitome of confidence.
Lena mirthlessly chuckles, "Easy for you to say. I'm the one who has to investigate, solve the case, and--and what's the worst-case scenario, huh? We're talking about a kid here, Michael. A dead kid. The police have already closed the case and walked away without bothering to learn a single fucking thing about who did this horrible, heinous, and unforgivable atrocity."
Michael mulls some things over before speaking, "I'm not disagreeing with you. Now, when it comes to murders like these..."
By the end of it all, Lena is given a decent boost of confidence in her ability to handle the case. Michael Hayes has a knack for knowing the right things to say- even if that means telling it to her unvarnished.
He advises her to dig into things, visit the scene of the crime, and THOROUGHLY go over the details that have been given with the finest of fine-tooth combs.
Mr. Hayes gulps down his second glass of booze and smacks his lips, "Ah. That's the stuff. So, there ya go. Y'know, even if you hadn't dropped by to get my advice, you'd have gone ahead and done everything that I just told you. I taught you everything I know about being a PI and unleashed you on the world."
Lena responds, "That's only because you yourself were the best. How's retirement treating you these days?"
The retired PI shrugs, "I still teach people like you the ins and outs of this...I don't wanna call it a game, Lena. I hate that word with a passion. And calling it a business is just as bad, just as crass. It's a calling, a--a duty, a...necessity. Especially in this joint!"
Since Lena hasn't seen him in a long time, she inquires, "Are you still getting people signing up to learn from you and all that? And are you still taking cases?"
Michael painfully winces when he shuffles his lower body a bit, "Yes. And no. Well, I still get referrals every now and then. As for actual cases, someone tried to hire me a few days ago, but I turned 'em down. I'm out of that particular line of work. Hey, maybe I'll send 'em your way, huh?"
"What's the case?"
"A string of grisly murders. You're not getting any more outta me, heh. No offense."
"None taken. And how's everything else going? How's the..." Lena vaguely gestures in the direction of his lower body.
Michael responds, "All the more reason for me to stop doing what I kinda liked doing. Retirement's for people in their seventies. If I hadn't gotten shot by those corporate goons, you bet your ass I'd have kept going."
"How is your health? How's the pain?"
"Eh, I manage. Painkillers and booze. Friend of mine recommended vodka and aspirin. Holy shit, it's like going on a trip...and I was born in the fifties and came of age in the seventies, so I know what a crazy trip looks like."
Lena chuckles, "Don't go overboard."
Michael was a damned good PI. But after getting embroiled in something to do with corporate malfeasance and white-collar crime, he got blasted in the gut and left for dead. The bullet went straight through and exited through the back.
It was through sheer luck that he survived- and even more miraculous that he didn't end up in a coma, a wheelchair, or anything of the sort. The medical bills were horrendous, and it took a good chunk of his savings to cover the expenses.
(American healthcare...wherein the large numbers on the paper are more than powerful to give a person a heart attack. For a supposedly "developed" nation to have such archaic and outdated systems is nothing short of a shameful, disgraceful travesty).
But in the end, Mr. Hayes got the bastards and in a rare case of justice being served, watched as they all were sentenced to life without any possibility of parole. Attempted murder, conspiracy to commit murder, financial-related crimes, and a myriad of other charges.
Nowadays, Michael spends his time mentoring, nurturing, and honing the skills of a new generation of gumshoes. Lena is just one of his many students.
The retired PI stands up with a groan and steadies himself. He gives Lena a hearty pat on the back, "Alright, off ya go. Solve the case, find the sicko who ran that poor kid over, and then you'll be able to rest easy. Don't worry, you'll do fine."
"I hope so."
"Any more hobbies, anything else occupying your time other than being a PI? You meet anyone yet? By the way, I think I might know a...few lucky ladies who'd be interested. Or are you still swiping on those app things? Hey, no judging from me, but you can't just be a PI and an office drone forever."
Lena blushes a little, "I--I have hobbies and other things, Michael. But these...ladies, are they friends of yours? Students of yours?"
"They're a bit older than you are, but you'd definitely hit it off. I could send you their contact info and all. Interested?"
Ms. Adams smirks, "I could be, yeah. I gotta head out now. You got everything that you need? Uh...just don't overdo the alcohol, hmm?"
Michael quips, "Yes, Dr. Adams."
She shakes her head at him, grabs her coat, puts it back on, and strides out after giving her mentor a hug.
The retired PI watches her leave and shuts the door behind him. He hobbles back to the loveseat and plops down into it with a painful groan. He picks up his glass and looks at it, swirls the booze around, and takes another sip.
After the eventful meeting and advice session, Lena drops by the same coffee shop from earlier in the morning. The hand-drawn sign reads: "GROUND BEANZ" in bold, friendly lettering.
Even at this hour of the dark night, a few customers sit and sip on their coffees and drink tea, the coffee beans and the smell of freshly baked goodies wafts through the air.
Many office-looking types have their MacBooks on the tables. They do some last-minute work or finish up some important assignments.
Lena is not one of them. She leaves her work at her...workplace. Gotta find a way to have that work-life balance somehow.
Ms. Adams is still an amateur when it comes to being a PI, but that was about to change in the coming days. For now, she sits at a single round table and rubs her face. Her fingers brush over her hair.
She is so very, very tired. And as usual, she orders a large cup of coffee and something to chow down on. The subway ride back home was quite an ordeal, so she needs to replenish her energy.
Lena devours what counts as her dinner, downs all of the coffee in a single go, pays the bill (no tip), and exits the place. She's glad that they're open so late.
But the employees of said place still have that weary look on their faces, their feet ache horribly, so...
On the journey back home, Lena walks by plenty of stoops and multi-storied houses that are practically glued together. The trees that cover the neighborhood are still blossoming.
Magnolia City has a population of about five-hundred thousand. Half a million, which is fairly decent.
Kudos where kudos is due- Magnolia City's planners cared more about people- human beings- and not profit margins or a false sense of aesthetics. Lena passes by plenty of bike lanes, wheelchair-friendly spots, and other nifty little things that make life bearable for the less fortunate, differently abled, and those who may have some or the other trouble getting around.
The metro also (usually) runs on time, so there's that, too.
Lena herself lives in a single-story house in a working-class suburb. It's medium-sized, has a nice porch, and is on a corner. A little farther away from the city center, but not too much so.
Sturdy trees and walkable paths make it a decent place to live in.
Lena goes up the steps, fishes her housekeys out of her coat pocket, and unlocks the front door. On the inside, the floors are made out of wood, the wall is painted white, and there are various potted plants throughout.
The granite kitchen island and the dining table are well-used, and the appliances are decent enough for her immediate needs. She flips a light switch on, bathing the entire house in bright, white, fluorescent lights.
The curtains are a dark shade of mauve. Lena's got a few framed photos of her family on the wall- mainly of her father, mother, and brother. Other than that, she has some pictures of her graduation ceremony. She went to Indiana State University.
Her shiny black graduation robes complimented her jet-black hair. But she had a bit of an acne situation back then. Her father and mother flank her, beaming with pride. Her brother ducked in front of her, wildly smiling and giving a double thumbs-up to the camera.
Lena has a nice and cozy bedroom, a well-used couch, a desk, a small but well-equipped workstation, a few shelves full of books, and a desktop computer.
The queen-sized bed is covered with a dark-red bedspread, a white duvet, and numerous fluffy pillows. Her closet contains an assortment of garments- both casual and professional.
While she slips out of her clothing, a call comes through on her mobile phone.
Jake's voice is on the other end of the line, all shaky and nervous, "M--Miss Adams? Lena? Hello?"
"I'm here, Jake. What can I do for you?"
"Well...are you busy? I just need a moment of your time. By the way, I sent whatever I could scrounge together to your uh...email address. Did you receive it?"
Lena sits on the edge of her bed, "I just got home, but I'm sure it'll be there. Don't worry."
Jake gulps and asks, "I know that this is short notice, but I was hoping to invite you to Tyler's wake. We--we're having it tomorrow. It's mostly a small thing- some family from Tennessee, a few close friends of Ty's, and some of his teachers. We wanted to keep it...small, simple, and quiet."
"Oh. I see. And what time is this?"
"Six in the evening. Given that you're gonna be investigating my son's murder, it only feels appropriate for me to extend this invitation to you, Lena. I genuinely hope that this isn't too short of a notice? I'm not trying to be pushy or anything, but I'd very much appreciate your presence."
She ponders over this for a moment and plainly answers, "Alright. I'll be there. Absolutely. I get off work at four forty-five. Text me the address and I'll be there. How long will the wake last?"
Jake mumbles a little, "It's uh...not for long. About an hour, hour-and-a-half, tops. We just wanna get together and remember Tyler, pay our respects, maybe even give you an...um...opportunity to talk to whoever might be able to offer you some information."
Lena nods, "That sounds like a great idea, but I don't wanna step over anyone's toes or turn Tyler's wake into some kind of interrogation session. I'll be there. Is there a dress code, by any chance?"
"Nuthin' like that, don't worry. I--I'll text you the address."
Lena runs a hand through her hair and ruffles it a bit, "Sure thing. Goodnight, Jake."
Jake sniffles and shakily replies, "G--goodnight, Lena. And thank you for--for taking this case on."
He hangs up and Lena is left with her thoughts. She turns on her computer and logs onto her PI-exclusive email account. Whatever Mr. Woodward sent over isn't much, but it's a good enough start.
For now, however, she is spent. The PI unclasps her bra, lets it drop onto the ground, and heads for a quick shower. The warm water washes away the accumulated stress, grime, and exhaustion.
She steps out, dries herself off, slips into her PJs, and flops down on her bed. Lena shuts her eyes, breathes out, and soon, gets lost in her dreams. While sleeping, not a single snore escapes her.
But that dream, that dream...comes for her again and again. Ms. Adams can't quite tell when it started, but it's been a part of her for so very, very long now.
In this dream, Lena is plunged into a bottomless ocean. She is perpetually sinking and cannot swim back up. The sky is blue, cloudy, and unreachable. There is no land and there is no way out. Before all the sounds muffle, the only noticeable sound is the splashing noise being made whenever something (or someone) pushes her into the water.
There are no boats, no planes, and no helicopters.
Oddly enough, she has no drowning sensation whatsoever. Lena just keeps sinking and sinking and sinking while the water rushes around her, waves splash and wash against her skin and even enter her open mouth and nostrils.
She is drowning but also not drowning. But she is sinking deeper and deeper and deeper...and then she wakes up.
The first thing that she sees is that she is in her bed, her duvet covers her up to the chin. Rays of the early-morning sun stream through her curtains and illuminate the room.
She turns her head and glances at her alarm clock. Lena blinks tightly, rubs her eyes, grunts softly, and gets out of bed.
It's time to do the same thing all over again! The warm water of the shower cascades down her naked body. She scrubs her skin with her favorite soap- some kind of flower-scented stuff- and shampoos her hair. She skips out on the conditioner.
After drying herself off, Lena dons a pair of pleated pants, a beige button-down shirt, and a pair of black pumps. As for makeup, it's simply some purple lipstick, concealer, eyeliner, and an extra layer of foundation.
Ms. Adams does her makeup every morning, just like she does her hair. Accessorizing involves some necklaces, bracelets, earrings, and a shiny brooch.
The employee of Pluto Enterprises grabs her stuff, locks up, and heads out. The rays of the sun are only beginning to warm things up. The streets are still a bit cold and covered in a thin layer of fog.
Lena swings by GROUND BEANZ for breakfast- bagels and two cups of coffee, one to have here and one to go. She takes a seat and reads through the morning news on her mobile phone.
The walk to Crystal Street Station is brief. Lena heaves a sigh of relief when the train arrives on time. The subway rattles and shakes a little, but that's sort of expected. There's a person with crutches sitting on the seat, and the rest of the train is mostly packed, so Lena grabs onto the pole.
When the train reaches its next stop, Ms. Adams exits and walks out onto the street.
Magnolia City is a Democrat stronghold through and through- it's been like that for as long as anyone can remember. It also has a functioning(ish) metro system which connects the whole, entire city together.
Such things are very rare in car-centric USA! Sadly, the underground, rapid transit subway infrastructure has been falling to disrepair these past few years, and the indifferent Democratic leadership refuses to allocate the necessary funds and resources to fix things up- it's not even that much!
(This is, of course, a major problem because there are some places- specifically, in the inner-city- where the metro is a lifeline to many. The lack of decent maintenance and timely repairs is a big part of the reason why the place is slowly destined for a total collapse).
Why can't we have nice, meaningful, and long-lasting things?
Lena does ask herself as much while walking into her place of work. She sharply exhales while sitting down in front of her work computer. For now, she puts those burning queries to the back of her mind and gets busy with her day job.
While eating her lunch (a veggie sandwich with a side of coleslaw), she goes through whatever information Jake had sent her in regard to the case.
The victim's father was a truck driver. Fourteen-year-old Tyler was walking home from school (he was taking extra classes) when he was struck by a motor vehicle (presumably a car) and left to bleed out on the sidewalk.
No cams were able to pick up on the vehicle's license plate- the police said that this was a hit-and-run and left it at that. The MCPD's Head Detective (who Lena is familiar with, unfortunately) said that the case was closed and that the culprit was likely to be some drifter or junkie.
The MCPD also has no further evidence, no other leads, no suspects, and no established motive.
Lena mutters to herself, "It's like they don't even care. Or they just don't wanna know anything. It's a fucking murder investigation- and I sure as hell going to dig deeper if they aren't gonna. Fuck those pricks. Fuck 'em and fuck their stupid, useless, and utterly incompetent department!"
(There's a reason why Lena Adams harbors such a hostility towards the coppers. Many reasons, actually).
The remainder of the afternoon goes by in a blur of paperwork, file management (both online and offline), grabbing printouts, and futzing around with spreadsheets.
A few people at the company have the good sense to actually ask for a promotion and a raise, but no dice, sadly. And there is a clause in Lena's contract which EXPRESSLY FORBIDS discussions (casual or otherwise) related to salary, compensation, raises, bonuses, incentives, etcetera amongst Pluto Enterprises employees.
It's all about the numbers to Pluto Enterprises...and whoever they ultimately answer to.
Oh, yeah, there's far more to Pluto Enterprises (PE) than meets the eye- a lot more. This particular subsidiary of a larger corporation (whose name shall be known soon) is in a very, very different field altogether.
A field not quite...of this world, one could say. But Lena, bless her beating heart, isn't privy to that.
Yet.
By four forty-six, Lena springs out of her supposedly "ergonomic" chair and heads out of the building. A chilly wind blows around her and makes her shiver a little. The sun shines down on the asphalt, casting a golden sheen over everything.
The sky is a deep and inviting shade of blue. White clouds streak the sky like cotton.
Lena doesn't own a car and doesn't intend to- the robust public transportation is more than sufficient for all of her mobility-related needs. Magnolia City is also quite walkable, and the important spaces aren't that far away from Lena's residence.
Moreover, there is an abundance of "third spaces" throughout this city- art galleries, libraries, museums, parks, botanical gardens, and many other places- that have become a part of her daily (and nightly) routine.
Ms. Adams has an hour to spare before Tyler's wake, so she mills about and stops by a flower shop. The old woman behind the counter- a kindly, grandmotherly type- greets her with a toothy smile.
She spends a few bucks on some flowers- white roses and pink carnations- and then heads to the wake. The trams on the streets are packed, the air is full of exhaust, and the stink of gasoline hangs heavy in the atmosphere.
Lena finds a seat, huddles a bit into her coat, and shuts her eyes while the vehicle rattles and shakes its way through the city. Within minutes, she's half a block away from Jake's home address.
"Well, here goes nothing."
Lena takes a deep breath, smooths out the wrinkles in her clothing, checks to see that her face looks OK, and heads up the steps leading to the porch.
She clasps the flowers tightly and rings the doorbell. The faint sound of conversing can be heard from within the duplex suburban house. It's a quiet neighborhood. Leaves gently rustle in the trees. A faint breeze blows.
The front door opens and an old man stands there, looking at Lena with an unreadable expression on his face. His Southern accent is harsh and unmistakable when he asks, "Can I help you?"
Lena replies, "I'm here for the wake, I'm uhm..."
Jake gently pushes the old feller aside and ushers her inside. All eyes immediately fall on Lena when she enters. She gives the flowers to the bereaved man, nods at the old man, and finds a seat in the corner.
Jake himself is dressed in a fine black suit, dark-blue tie, and shiny shoes. Most of the other people present are dressed somewhat identically. Some of the older men wear bolo ties.
The women wear wide-brimmed hats, ankle-length summer dresses with very muted color schemes, and gloves. The teens and younger kids are clad in jeans, button-up shirts, and denim jackets.
The living room is rather spacious and has been arranged for a wake. Tyler's portrait takes up a large portion of the wall. On the other side, a wide table has been spread out with a plethora of finger-foods and the like.
The walls of the house are adorned with trucker-associated things, photos of the family (both immediate and extended), knick-knacks all the way from Tennessee, and various maps and routes.
Jake gestures to them and explains, "My son had a thing for all things trucker and big rigs. I didn't want my boy following in my footsteps. He wanted to drive one of these babies and go on all kinds of trips, but he was destined fo--for so much more."
A few tears roll down the poor man's face; he sniffles and wipes them away with a tissue paper before scrunching it up with his balled-up fist.
He whispers, "I'm sorry, you don't wanna see this."
Lena reassures him, "It's OK. It's your home, it's your son's wake. Don't let anyone tell you how to grieve- we all do it differently. Just hang in there."
Jake dabs his face again, "Thanks. Please, help yourself to a--a drink and some food. Or just hang around, talk, and...yeah. I gotta go now."
Lena nods at him, "No problem."
Unfortunately for the PI, there is no coffee present. But there is a bowl of very red punch.
Miss Adams sighs and idly looks through what's been laid out. There is a platter of cheese cubes, a plate of crackers, a load of moon pies, and another of sliced meats.
Tyler's portrait shows him smiling widely. He had fair skin, curly hair, and bright green eyes. Behind him, a long-haul, eighteen-wheeler truck with its door wide open can be seen.
Poor kid had his whole life ahead of him and it was all brutally snuffed out by a speeding car. Lena resolves to find out who did this- and why. No matter what.
Ty's friends from school start to trickle in. They're mostly kids his age (or thereabouts). Some are dressed formally and this one kid even wears a bowtie, with his brown hair parted to the side.
Lena figures that she should at least talk to some of them to get a feel for things. She sits on the sofa, sips her punch, and tries to listen in on whatever conversation is being had.
Jake, however, takes the initiative to introduce his late son's friends to the PI.
Bowtie boy looks at Lena from head to toe, eyes narrowed in scrutiny. He straightforwardly asks her, "Who are you and what is your connection with Tyler?"
Lena flatly responds, "I'm the one investigating his murder. Where...are your parents?"
"I came by myself. I'm not five anymore- I'm practically a grown up."
Jake pats the boy's back, "Well, let's not get ahead of ourselves. You're a smart kid, but you're...still a kid. Go on, why don't you grab somethin' to eat and drink, hmm?"
He presses his lips into a thin smile and gives the boy another pat on the back. The latter nods and walks over to where the edibles and drinkables are placed.
"The other kids are the same way- high IQs. Tyler finally found a place where he belonged, where he was...understood. My wife and I weren't exactly the smartest of folk, but we made the choice to come over here and give our boy the best life we could. And that's what we did. Until...it all fell apart."
Lena sensitively asks, "What about your wife's wake? Why didn't you combine the two? Sorry if that came off as insensitive."
Mr. Woodward answers, "My...extended family believes that suicide is a sin. They're good people, but they can get awfully judgmental when it comes to stuff like this. I'll have my wife's wake when I'm ready, but I want this evening to be about Tyler."
"I see. I'm sorry to hear that, Jake."
Bowtie boy comes back with a cup of punch. Crumbs of food are spotted on the corners of his mouth. Lena has the good sense to ignore that lest he retort with a witty remark.
Jake leaves the two of them be.
Lena regards him with a guarded expression, "So, how well did you know Tyler Woodward?"
"What's your name, lady?"
"Lena Adams. What's yours?"
"Call me Stu."
The PI frowns, "Is that your real name or are you pulling my leg?"
Stu replies, "I'm not dumb enough to give a fake name to the chick investigating my best friend's murder. And yeah, I know it was murder. Hit-and-run. My parents try to shield me from this stuff, but I know what's going on."
"Then you must also know that the police didn't bother to do anything about it."
"Mm-hmm. No shocker there. The MCPD is, somehow, worse than the LAPD. And they make the Flimont City Police Department look like pros. My grandpa is from F-City, and he's always been pissed about it."
The other kids have their cellphones in their hand, and their fingers are busily tapping away.
Lena jerks her chin over to them, "Did any of you see Tyler before he was killed?"
Stu shakes his head, "Nuh-uh. I went home early- stomach bug. But Ty stayed for the special classes. I'm going to college before I turn eighteen, so those classes are meant to prep us up for the future."
"Wow. Sounds...intense. And academically speaking, how was Tyler? Good grades, attendance, behavior, all that stuff?"
"Lady, our school isn't for show. Tyler was so smart he could tell you the full names of all the Vice Presidents' wives off the top of his head. He was also really active in the student body and all. He even helped me in my run for class president- campaign slogans, leaflets, electoral strategies catered to specific age groups, that sorta thing."
Lena's eyebrows shoot up, "And do you geniuses ever get time for extracurriculars?"
Stu lightly scoffs at her, "We're not nerds getting wedgies. Even the jocks in our school can solve complex linear equations. Yeah, we had hobbies. We weren't a bunch of bespectacled, no-life smarties with our noses buried in big books all day long. We had stuff to do, stuff to occupy ourselves with."
"Like?"
Stu side-eyes her, "The usual stuff that teenagers occupy themselves with- whatever you did as a kid, I guess. Look, how is any of this relevant to catching Tyler's killer?"
Lena bluntly asks, "Did you and Tyler have a falling out of any kind?"
He truthfully answers, "No. We were best friends. Maybe not best friend numero uno, but we were pretty tight. I'd do anything for him, and he'd do anything for me. Anything legal, that is."
The PI further prods, "Do you know of anyone who might've had it out for him? An adult with a grudge? A teacher? Someone from your school's staff? A parent, perhaps? Did he have any enemies that you're aware of?"
"Nah. You're looking in all the wrong places, lady. At my school, the only time we go far is when someone messes up and does something really stupid. Like that one kid who was suspended last month for playing some really yikes stuff on the PA system. Tyler saw who did it and dutifully reported it to the relevant parties."
Lena rubs her hands together, "Did said parties ever retaliate or threaten retaliation?"
Stu shakes his head, "Nope. He didn't just SEE who did it. He figured out how they hacked into the school's PA system, too. You should've seen the detailed report he typed up in the computer lab. The teachers talked to the kids and told them to knock it off, or else..."
Lena regards the young lad and folds her arms, "So, if I'm not looking for someone who knew Tyler, then who exactly should I be looking for?"
He mulls over it for a moment, "Well, you're the PI. Uh...it seems random. Maybe whoever hit Ty was, like, really blackout drunk?"
"Hmm. Maybe. Thanks for your help, Stu."
Stu nods, does a slight bow, and saunters away.
Lena's amber eyes follow him, "He seems alright. Smart. Lemme know how the therapy goes in a few years' time. Heh."
Some of Tyler's teachers are present. Jake makes the necessary introductions. Lena nods back at some of them and decides to talk to the math teacher. Jon is British, pale, has a short beard that's been neatly trimmed, well into his thirties, wears a dark-orange, sleeveless sweater vest over a white dress shirt, and khaki pants.
Lena begins by asking, "How well did you know the...uh...victim?"
Jon plainly answers, "He was a pupil of mine, Ms. Adams."
"Call me Lena. How was he in class? Did he ever have any issues? Academic? Personal? Did he skip a lot of classes?"
The Brit chuckles a little, "Tyler- or Ty as some were inclined to call him- was always very smart. His grades in school were top-notch and on par with the rest of his peers. He was a bright and friendly lad. He was never late to class, never missed a single day, and rarely had issues with the other pupils."
Lena narrows an eye and scrutinizes him, "Huh. Right. And how long have you been his math teacher for?"
Jon nervously chuckles and tugs on his collar, "Ah, so we're going down that path, eh? Very well, I have nothing to hide, miss--err--Lena. I came to this city five years ago. All my papers are in order, I assure you."
"And where are you originally from?"
Jon chuckles again, "If the accent hasn't already given it away, I hail from England; the city of Gloughchester, to be precise. In many ways, that place reminds me of Magnolia City. But let's not get too carried away, heh."
Lena queries, "What made you leave?"
"The school I used to work at...wasn't quite up to snuff. And the walls starting to crumble apart certainly played a role in my decision, as well. I received what I believed to be a decent offer and...took it. Err...accepted it, I suppose. The rest is history."
"Hmm. And do you know of anybody who might've wanted to hurt Tyler? Anyone who may have had it out for him, harbored a grudge, or maybe even knew what his walking route back home was?"
The Brit scratches his chin, "As I've said, Tyler was a bright and happy lad. I do not mean to overstep my bounds, but you are barking up the wrong trees. No disrespect intended, of course. If I were you, I'd...actually, never mind. I don't know the first thing about being a PI, sorry."
Lena folds her arms, "No, no, I insist. What is it?"
Jon shuffles his feet a little, "Well, you see, I'd...look at the tire tracks of the motor vehicle that struck him down and go from there. They'd be able to tell you much more than I could. Assuming that...wait, how does one match tire tracks to vehicles?"
Lena flatly responds, "It's a difficult process, but they've probably been washed away by now. Thanks for your help, Jon."
"Anytime, detective."
Now, onto the relatives. They're an...interesting lot. Bonnet caps, bolo ties, big, booming, twangy voices, and a whole lotta salt and pepper.
Jake, for whatever reason, only picks certain relatives to introduce to Lena. There are uncles, aunties, cousins, cousins twice removed, great-grandparents, and more. But all of them are...well, nice enough, she supposes.
One of the frail and older ladies calls Lena an "oriental". Yikes. Lena stifles a grimace and quickly shuffles away. Jake swoops in and explains that that particular relative has dementia and was born in a very, very different time.
Lena admits, "Believe me, I've been called far worse by people who haven't had any dementia."
"Well, she didn't mean anything malicious by it, but I apologize on her behalf, nonetheless." Jake does his best to be a good host, hold it all together, and stay strong for the sake of his family and the ones who've come all the way from Tennessee to pay their respects.
Lena shakes the old lady's outstretched, wrinkly hand, tightly smiles, and walks away.
The other relatives don't seem to know much, nor do they display any signs of wanting to hurt, let alone kill, Tyler. Many of them are genuinely quite aghast at how sudden the murder was and how quickly the MCPD closed the case.
There's a lady who is in her mid-twenties. Her blush is so very bright and her smile so very wide. She is, however, dressed in a pair of jeans, a tight white t-shirt, and a printed shrug jacket. Her curly black hair looks like it's been washed recently, and her brown eyes sparkle.
Tina looks around and deposits some of the finger foods into her very large purse. Lena's face scrunches up in mild disapproval when she notices that.
The PI walks up to Tina and asks, "Did you know the victim?"
The young woman turns to Lena and greets her with a cheerful voice, "Uh...yeah, sorta." Her New Jersey accent is quite thick and pronounced.
"Sorta?"
"Yeah. Tyler helped me get rid of all the viruses on my computer." She says it like "Computah".
"Uh-huh. And you're his uncle's...fifth wife, is that right?"
Tina nods, "I am. Lucky number five, eh?"
Lena dryly responds, "I guess so. What do you do for a living, Tina?"
Tina gleefully answers, "I'm a makeup artist...for the stars!"
Lena thinks to herself, "Yeah, the cheesy soap opera ones, if your own crappy makeup skills are anything to go by."
Tina continues, "I'm working on a show called...actually, I'm under NDA. But I get to work with all sortsa celebrities, make 'em look like a million bucks, and stuff."
"Uh-huh, I'm sure you do. Where's your husband?"
"Hospital. His bum leg's acting up again. That's what he gets for riding his motorcycle around town, thinkin' that he's twenty all over again. But I still love him."
Lena sighs a bit, "Let's focus on Tyler, please."
Tina nods fervently, "Yeah, yeah, sure. What do ya wanna know? You know, ya remind me of all these stars I work with."
Lena thinks to herself, "Oh, great. Here we go again."
She musters up a smile and plays along, "Do I?"
Tina vaguely gestures towards Lena's face, "You're a PI, right? You're almost there with the cliched PI style. All ya need is an inner monologue, a hat, a whole pack of cigars, and a booze habit! Hahaha!"
Lena isn't smiling now, "Yeah, ha-ha. Very funny. Focus. Tyler. Do you know anybody who'd wanna hurt your uhm...nephew, I guess. What about your husband, were he and Tyler close?"
Tina shrugs, "Well, we all got along like a big, happy family. My husband wouldn't hurt a fly. Sure, he's got a few money problems, but he and Ty got along decently. And after my husband's sister...offed herself, things haven't been the same around here."
Lena quirks an eyebrow, "Oh? Now, we're finally headed somewhere. Go on, tell me more."
Tina gesticulates, "Shouldn't ya be writing this stuff down in a notepad? That's what they do on all the TV shows involving a gumshoe."
Lena taps on the side of her head, "Don't need to. I've got it all in here."
"An eidetic memory??"
"Something like that, yeah. So, what did you mean when you said that things haven't been the same around here?"
Tina sighs heavily, "Oh, nothing much. Just that, like, I don't think we've been the same since then. I mean, My husband's sister was absolutely devastated when...ya know. She lost a lotta weight, looked so awful, and barely said a word to us when we dropped by to visit her. She wasn't always like that. Losing a kid does that to you."
"It does."
Tina looks around, "I gotta head home. Truth be told, I'm still an outsider to the family. New Jersey and Tennessee, am I right?" She says it like "Nooh Joisey".
Lena plainly replies, "I guess so. Before you go, is there anything else you can tell me that might help in my investigation? Anything at all, no matter how small or insignificant it may seem. Please, don't hold back."
Tina brings her index finger up to her chin and thinks. Her eyebrows furrow a bit, and Lena wonders if she's doing it all for show or if she really is trying to give her some kind of useful information.
The PI clears her throat and casts a sidelong glance at the makeup artist.
Tina finally says, "I don't think someone from the family did it. Nah, if they wanted to hurt Tyler, they'd probably have done it...subtler."
Lena frowns, "Subtler? Like?"
"Poison? B&E? Snatch him on his way from school? Definitely not driving into him. This doesn't uh...seem premeditated to me."
Lena asks herself, "Just how many crappy detective TV shows does she watch in a day? Holy shit."
Tina continues, "The cops weren't too hot on solving this one, after all. No shocker there. Maybe you should broaden your horizons, eh? Look for someone not at all related to Ty."
"Such as?"
"Dunno, you're the broad investigating the case, ain't ya?"
Lena nods and sighs, "Thanks, Tina. That'll be all."
Tina cheerily waves goodbye and loudly announces her exit as she stumbles out the door.
Lena glances over at the deceased's father. He presses his lips into a thin line and pensively lowers his head, doing his absolute best to present a composed and dignified front.
But Jake's demeanor towards certain relatives is a lot colder and a lot less forgiving. But he hesitates to let them know, instead nodding along to whatever they say and keeping his composure maintained.
He looks up at Lena, gives her a slight, almost imperceptible nod, and turns back to his guests.
Miss Adams stays till the very end of the wake. A few words of remembrance were said and everyone who was able to make it was given a warm and heartfelt goodbye.
A Pastor led the final prayer. People started to slowly leave the house, but Jake wasn't quite ready to call it a day. There's a lot of food still remaining. He slowly walks to the kitchen and starts packing them away in plastic containers. Tears stream down his face as he does so.
Lena comes up behind him, puts a hand on his shoulder, and gently says, "Thank you for inviting me, Jake. I was able to learn a lot about your son and his friends, extended family, and teachers. This should, hopefully, help in solving the case."
Jake has his back turned to her. He sniffles, "I appreciate the sentiment. It means a lot to have someone with your...expertise on the case. And thank you for doin' it pro bono."
"It's no worry. I'll find whoever did this. I--I promise."
Jake doesn't turn around. He just continues to put the leftovers in the containers, "I'll hold you to your word. Would you like some gravy to...take home?"
Lena shakes her head, "I'm fine, thanks. Goodnight, Jake. We'll stay in touch and I'll keep you apprised on my investigation."
He slowly nods and replies, "Thanks. G'night! Get home safe."
"Hmm. Bye."
And with that, she exits the house and starts making her way down the steps. The sky above is nearly pitch black. A few stars twinkle here and there, and the air is cool and crisp.
Lena Adams spends the remainder of the night caffeinating herself and poring over what information she has in regard to the deceased child. This is a case that she intends to solve, no matter how long or difficult it may prove to be.
She occasionally stands up to stretch her cramping legs. And after a few hours of this, she closes up her office and heads back home. During the train ride, she has a hard time sleeping.
Chapter Two: Totally NOT A Batcave
Later in the night...
Under an Irish pub named "O'Rory's Tavern," a cavernous maw is hidden deep beneath the ground and only accessible through a set of secure doors from the smoky pub's backroom. A narrow set of metallic stairs lead down into a secret space, and at the bottom of the steps is another secure door.
(One can't be too secure these nights!)
The metallic steps carry the echo of rapidly descending footsteps. The sound reverberates and bounces off the damp walls. The door at the bottom is shoved open by a broad shoulder.
A well-dressed man with deathly pale skin, cropped auburn hair, a smooth face, and three piercing, green eyes stomps in. The eye on his forehead glows a bright and unnatural shade of ivy green.
He tugs on the lapels of his suit and forces a deep breath through lungs that ceased functioning decades ago. The breathing is just out of habit, if nothing else.
Dampness pervades the underground space. There are pipes on the wall, dim lighting, a few humming freezers, a row of metal cots (for emergencies), a bunch of storage shelves, a workbench, and other assorted bits and bobs that may (or may not) be construed as junk.
The man kicks a crumpled can aside. His sharp and angular features twist in disgust as he notices the mess. His three green eyes dart all over the room.
A hiss of displeasure escapes his cold lips, "Goddamnit. Nossies made a mess. Again. Hmph. I've gotta talk to Cedric about this."
Sheriff (Kindred Sheriff, that is) Marshall Fairfield of Clan Salubri (three-eyed vampires) paces around the area and grumbles while cleaning up the mess that some of the local Nosferatu had made- they mainly used this space as a temporary resting/experimentation spot.
The Prince of this Domain, for his part, didn't mind such things- and the Nossies can be a persuasive bunch!
Sheriff Marshall grumbles some more while piling the empty beer cans, scrunched up blood bags, and other trash into a garbage bag. The plastic crinkles as the frustrated Sheriff tosses whatever he can into the bag. He grabs the bag and flings it halfway across the area.
"This is a fucking Masquerade breach waiting to happen. I'm gonna have to have a stern sit-down with those Nossies. And soon. Who leaves blood bags lying around the goddamn floor like this? That's not how things are supposed to be done!"
"And yet that's how the Crawlers in this Domain conduct themselves, darling," a feminine voice dripping with syrupy honey-sweetness replies.
A woman in an elegant, form-hugging dress saunters down the steps. She is of average build and height, pale as a sheet, has a round face free of any major blemishes, and black hair that cascades down to her lower back.
Her three brown eyes fixate upon the Sheriff.
He sighs, "Rosalind. So good of you to show up. Why don't you help me clean up the mess, hmm?"
Seneschal Rosalind Meyer (or Meyers to certain folks) waves her hand and sashays her way towards a worktable. She picks up the nearest thing to her (which happens to be a piece of paper) and daintily holds it in her cold fingers.
Seneschal Rosalind flicks the paper aside and smiles sweetly, "It is what it is, Marshall. The others should soon be here. Hopefully. There's...a bit to discuss and go over tonight. And how was your evening, Sheriff?" Her tone is genuine, gentle, and filled with care.
Sheriff Marshall rubs the bridge of his nose and answers, "Busy maintaining order in a city with half a million souls going to and fro. How 'bout you?"
The Salubri Seneschal languidly waves her hand about, "Oh, you know. The usual. Wedding prep, planning, and the like."
Sheriff Marshall mumbles, "It's been going on for half a century. Just stick the ring around his finger, say 'I do,' and give him a sloppy kiss on the lips. End of story."
"It's not that simple, Marshall. You- of all people- ought to know that. Come, now. Help me lay out the chairs, would you?"
"Hmm. Sure."
The two of them get around to diligently unfolding a bunch of metal chairs and setting them up in a way that they are now facing towards a slightly elevated platform. A few of them have duct tape covering the spots where the padding is coming undone.
While they work, Sheriff Marshall asks her, "So, uh...how are your Blood Dolls doing? Any fuss? Anyone getting any bright ideas?"
Seneschal Rosalind's pale face tics, "They know what they've gotten themselves into, Marshall. Don't worry, if they...try to pull a runner, my first call would be to...you. Satisfied?"
The other Salubri shrugs a shoulder, "I don't like hurting people unless it's absolutely necessary. And even then, I still don't like it. I already got the gist of how your arrangements work, Rosalind, but I have to ask--"
"Are they happy? Are they fulfilled? How intact is the Masquerade?"
Sheriff Marshall sighs heavily, "Took the words straight outta my mouth. Like always. Yeah, are--are they happy with you biting into them on a nightly basis?"
She plainly declares, "It's an entirely consensual feeding arrangement. We both stand to benefit in the long run, and they're perfectly safe and secure. And if it's worth anything, I do make a hearty meal for them. It's only just, isn't it?"
"I guess so. I hear someone."
A dapper man in his late thirties with very dark skin, full lips, luscious dreadlocks, and trimmed facial hair comes down the stairs. His clothes are immaculate and very well-tailored- a purple suit jacket, off-white slacks, and snakeskin shoes.
Some beads are tied around his icy hands, and his three dark eyes are somewhat glassy, but they quickly snap into focus when he looks at the Seneschal. A smile asserts itself across his face, and his teeth are all very white and very straight.
Seneschal Rosalind puts her hands on her chest and smiles back with just as much intensity. Her pupils dilate.
Prince Cedric Montgomery of Clan Salubri (again) approaches his Seneschal and kisses her on the lips. Just a brief peck. The two of them embrace each other and sway from side to side, longingly staring into each other's many eyes.
The Sheriff stands aside and lowers his head reverentially, "Prince Cedric. How have things been?"
Prince Cedric's deep voice almost echoes throughout this underground not-a-Batcave, "Well enough, Marshall. I heard that some Nosferatu had been...havin' a sleepover down here? Well, damn, I know that times are tough, but them Nossies are loaded."
Seneschal Rosalind nudges her fiancé (of fifty years!) with her elbow, "Oh, come now. Let's not paint in such broad strokes, honey. While the Primogen and his Whip may be...loaded in their own right, we still have plenty of Crawlers in this Domain who very much live on the margins. We mustn't forget that."
The Prince takes his Seneschal's hand into his, "I'm not saying it like that, baby. I'm just saying that them Sewer Rats gotta take better care of each other- like they do in other Domains! Warrens and shit. How come we still don't got none of that over here, hmm? Makes ya wonder, don't it?"
Sheriff Marshall chuckles, "It sure does, boss. It sure does."
Prince Cedric paces around and coolly asks, "So, how many we expecting for tonight's meetup? How's the security lookin'? Marshall?"
"All quiet, chief. Masquerade breaches are at an all-time low, everyone plays their role, stays in their lane, and...they get along with each other. Well enough for our liking, I guess." There is a hint of uncertainty in the Sheriff's voice.
Prince Cedric nods firmly, "That's good to hear! Hey, Rosalind, you decide on a wedding venue yet? And I do want them white flowers."
Seneschal Rosalind sighs, "Honestly? I'd prefer lilies. How 'bout we meet halfway through, hmm?"
"We still don't got a venue yet..."
Sheriff Marshall mutters, "Just do it in a church already."
The two lovers overhear that and chuckle amongst themselves. Sheriff Marshall joins along, but only a little. And the three of them go way back, so there's a lot of history between them.
The Prince tugs on his cuffs and sits down on a chair set up for him on the elevated platform. His Seneschal is seated to his left, while his Sheriff is seated to his right.
Now, they patiently wait for the other Kindred to file in.
A horrendously deformed, albeit well-dressed, man hobbles down the steps. His ashy, boil-ridden skin is stretched tightly over his elongated, gaunt, and twisted face. Bits of frizzy hair stick out from his scalp, and his mouth is wide open, revealing deeply rotten teeth and a chipped fang.
But his three-piece suit is immaculate.
Seneschal Rosalind addresses him, "Laurence! Come, come. Did anyone spot you?"
Laurence Lancaster of Clan Nosferatu glowers at everybody with his bloodshot, bulging eyes, "Of course not. I've been doing this shit for years on end." His voice is gruff, hoarse, and gravelly.
The Sheriff dryly says, "It's not 'this shit', Laurence. It's important! And where's Otto? Knowing him, he'd probably take our alternative entrance." He does a thumb-back gesture to a loose grate leading down, deeper into the cavern.
Laurence answers, "He ain't comin'. Sent me in his place. As Whip to the Primogen, I got the right to be here. I'll relay whatever the hell we waste our time talking 'bout to him, he'll sign off on it, and everything'll be copacetic."
The Prince sighs deeply and shrugs, "If you say so. And how has your week been, hmm?"
Attempts to inject cheer and be polite are met with foul grunts and fouler glares. Laurence folds his arms and sinks deeper into his seat. His sulking is obvious, and the others choose to ignore him for the most part.
(He's got myriads of issues).
His Embrace was a decade ago. He originally hails from Flimont City and is of the infamous Lancaster family (moneyed assholes, basically). One would think that being Embraced into such a Clan would've humbled him, given him a fresh perspective on matters, but it did quite the opposite.
His Embrace was a little too sudden and the process too rushed, and it did a helluva number on him. He couldn't go back to his crazy, overbearing father and as a result, his company- Lancaster-SYS- completely collapsed into many pieces and was sold off for pennies on the dollar. Parts, practically!
Laurence had no choice but to remain in Magnolia City ever since those events transpired. He's got three adult children (all sons from different women) who don't really bother keeping in touch. And none of them have really cared to find out what happened to daddy dearest.
Even then, Laurence is still a wealthy man in his own right. His shrewd business acumen, his callous ruthlessness, and his complete lack of mercy and human decency have kept him afloat and allowed him to live a very, VERY comfortable existence.
Heavy, nearly obnoxious footsteps descend down the metal stairs at a very rapid pace. The kind of footsteps one would expect from a person with very sturdy legs and very little patience.
A well-built, muscular man in his indeterminate thirties cracks his knuckles and walks over to the closest unoccupied chair. He sits down with a huff and grunts. His alabaster skin is slightly scarred, and he's wearing a blue blazer and pleated pants.
His two green eyes glare at everyone around him. His expression is stern, brooding, and very, very focused. His blonde hair is neatly combed to the side, and his ears are plugged with wired earphones.
Prince Cedric stares at him and calls out, "Amos Greenberg!"
Amos clicks his tongue in frustration and pulls out one of his earphones, "What?"
The Prince sighs and addresses him, "How you doing?"
"Fine." Amos shoves the earphone back into his ear, folds one leg over the other, and shifts about a little in his seat. He throws his head back and shuts his eyes. His pale face is smooth, but there are a few spots here and there.
Amos Greenberg is, by all accounts, an Assamite (Clan Banu Haqim), but say that to his face and he'll punch you dead- those muscles aren't just for show!
He identifies as a "Bnei HaShem". They are a bunch of Israel-loving, Jewish supremacist Assamites who vehemently and ferociously reject the heritage of their Blood in favor of some made up, ahistorical (one might even say anti-historical) Zionist bullshit. Typical.
There is a small, but problematic, Bnei HaShem presence in Magnolia City. As such, the actual Banu Haqim are a bit cautious about him and his associates and are attempting to keep an eye on him. A very close eye.
And many real Assamites have been put on the back foot by Amos's many attempts to destroy them all and set up shop in this Domain. All of this is occurring behind Prince Cedric's back.
Amos has been trying to ingratiate himself into the Prince's Court, but thus far, it hasn't worked out as well as he hoped it would.
The Prince asks him, "Amos, I got a question for you, boy."
Amos sighs heavily and takes out his earphone, some really loud music faintly bleeds out of the device, "What?!"
Sheriff Marshall does not like this False Assamite. He grits his teeth and demands, "First of all, show some goddamn respect and take those fucking things off. The Prince wants to have a conversation with you- the least you could do is take off those goddamn things and HEAR HIM OUT!"
Amos's voice is calm and even, "I'll do that when HE asks me nicely, Cyclops." And in goes the earphone again.
The False Assamite defiantly crosses his arms and raises his chin, glaring daggers back at the trio seated at the elevated platform.
Seneschal Rosalind's gaze darkens, "Well, that went about as well as expected." She politely smiles at Amos and averts her gaze when he looks back at her with a sour expression.
Seneschal Rosalind murmurs to herself, "He's a funny one."
The Sheriff growls, "That's it. I'm taking his head off--"
Prince Cedric places his hand on the other man's knee and urges him, "No, you ain't. Marshall, we already talked about this. The...Bnei HaShem haven't done a thing that can be interpreted as a violation of the Camarilla's Traditions. We don't got just cause to do away with them."
Sheriff Marshall snarls, "They're shady. I know it, I just know it, but I--I can't seem to do a damn thing about it!"
Seneschal Rosalind's voice is very soft, "It's alright, Sheriff. If they are...shady, then they'll slip up. And we'll be there to put them in their place."
The Sheriff's voice is exasperated, "But I--I can't seem to find a single goddamn violation that they've committed against the Traditions or any other law that exists! I can't reasonably pin a single fucking thing against them!"
He grimly adds, "But all those recent disappearances and murders aren't a coincidence. It all started when muscle man over there made his presence known to us."
Prince Cedric sighs, "Now you're just jumpin' to wild conclusions, Marshall. Sure, he was lurking around without presenting himself to me in accordance with the Fifth Tradition of Hospitality, but it don't mean that he was goin' around killin' folks and makin' people disappear."
Seneschal Rosalind put in, "Maybe he has a point, honey. There are coincidences, sure, yes. But perhaps he's right and there is a connection that we should seriously be looking into."
Prince Cedric narrows his eyes and stares at the smug Assassin, "I dunno, Ros. It feels like we're grasping at straws here. Lookin' around for a boogeyman under a bed, so to speak. I dunno. But...we should keep a closer eye on him and his people, hmm?"
Sheriff Marshall stifles a groan, "That's, like, the least we should be doing. And why have the actual Assamites stopped showing up to these meetings, hmm? I--I mean, Amos isn't even anybody's fucking Whip. Why is he even here?"
Seneschal Rosalind shrugs, "Well, to be fair, Marshall, these meetings are open to any and all of Caine's Childer. Amos has just as much of a right to be here as anybody else does. Even Ghouls are more than welcome to attend these meetings, you know."
The Sheriff replies, "Yeah, but Ghouls aren't that big of a threat to the Masquerade compared to some asshole who looks like he spends all of his time at the gym and nowhere else. I don't like him. I just don't. And it's not because he's Jewish, it's because he's an asshole!"
The False Assamite snorts. It's like he heard a part of the Sheriff's outburst and found it amusing.
Seneschal Rosalind's gaze is withering, "Well, you've made that abundantly clear to us on numerous occasions in the past. Let's just do what we can to keep the peace, watch over things with keen eyes, and...don't let Amos get to you, Marshall."
The Salubri Sheriff balls his hands into fists and mutters, "Whatever. S--sure. Sorry, Seneschal. I shouldn't have disrespected you l--like that."
Prince Cedric puts his hand on the knee of his fellow Peacemaker, "It's fine, Marshall. We get it; it ain't easy being Sheriff. But we do our best to make each other's Unlives- and duties to this Court- as easy and painless as possible."
The Sheriff nods, "Sorry. But I'm not dropping it. Something stinks and we better be getting to the bottom of it."
Prince Cedric leans to the side and covers the side of his mouth with his hand. He lowers his voice to a whisper, "If we plan on doing any investigating, then we better do it off-the-books, you dig? He'll see us comin' from a mile away. Me and Ros got something that we wanna run by you after this meetup ends. If you're interested."
Sheriff Marshall nods, "I am. Y--you're the Prince, after all."
Prince Cedric pulls away and clicks his tongue, "It ain't like that, Marshall. All our voices matter equally. Ain't that right, baby?"
Seneschal Rosalind beams and looks into her lover's three eyes, "Yes, indeed. The Second Tradition of the Domain implies- strongly- that a Prince's word is law, but all voices are valued equally. That's just how we do things around here."
Prince Cedric takes her hands in his and reassures, "And that's how we always will, baby." He kisses the top of her hands, and she lightly giggles in response.
A very brief and uncomfortable silence follows, but nobody has anything else to add. Laurence sulks while Amos bobs his head to the music. The other three are still engaged in their own little discussions.
After a few moments, Prince Cedric checks his watch and shakes his head, "If that Italian don't show up in the next minute, we're starting. He can get the particulars of this meeting from whoever he so pleases. Is a little punctuality too much to ask for these nights? We got some serious stuff to talk about!"
Laurence's gurgling grunt is enough to confirm his displeasure with this.
Amos clicks his tongue and grumbles, "C'mon, c'mon, start already. I got places to be, important shit to do."
Sheriff Marshall snarls, "YOU got places to be, important shit to do, huh, well how about--"
Seneschal Rosalind quickly intervenes, putting on the best possible smile she can muster, "Now, now, Marshall. We'll give our Italian friend a few more minutes. After all, the night is still young, isn't it?" A forced chuckle escapes her lips.
Amos's dead eyes dart over to her. They stare at each other for a few seconds before Prince Cedric puts his hand on his girlfriend's knee.
Gentle footsteps can be heard from the metal stairs. Everybody looks over. Everybody except Amos, who has his eyes shut and earphones plugged in.
A woman in her forties strides in. She is pale-skinned and somewhat thin. Her bobbed, blonde hair is neatly done, and her lips are painted a deep shade of red. A silky white shirt and a black skirt adorn her frame.
She profusely apologizes for being late, her Italian accent flaring at certain points.
"Scusi (ITA: Excuse me). I am so sorry for being late, Prince. Am--am I late? Where are the others? Only this many?"
Francesca Livroni is the Whip to the Primogen of the Hecata Clan, the Clan of Death.
She sets her Gucci purse on the free seat next to her, straightens herself out, and bows her head reverently. Then, she takes her seat in an elegant and poised manner.
The Necromancer looks around the room, takes note of Amos, and frowns slightly.
Laurence mumbles, "They sent the wrong Italian. Heh-heh."
Francesca retorts, "Mr. Lancaster, you are like me. Whip to the Primogen of our respective Clans. Where is Otto, anyway? Still brooding in his mansion?"
Laurence counters, "And where the hell is your Vincenzo, huh? That old Graverobber still trying to play around with shit he got no business interfering in?"
Francesca scowls, "He is busy." She refuses to fall for Laurence's cheap barbs.
"'Busy'. Uh-huh, sure..." And he huffs, grunts, and ignores Ms. Livroni.
Seneschal Rosalind claps her hands together, the sound echoing throughout this subterranean cavern, "Kindred of the Court! Members of the Council! Could I please have your attention."
She fixes the muscular not-Assamite with a somewhat severe look, and he grunts as a sign of acquiescence. The earplugs come off and he nods to her.
The Seneschal continues, "Thank you. Before we begin these proceedings, let us take a moment to reflect on these past few weeks, hmm? Just a short and quick moment, if you'd all be so kind."
Amos shrugs and says nothing.
Laurence lowers his head and clasps his scarred, deformed, and pus-ridden hands together. His breathing is heavy and labored. He shuts his eyes and mumbles something that nobody else can quite pick up on.
Francesca contemplatively stares at her surroundings. Her gaze becomes unfocused. Her fingers idly twitch and her lips slowly part. She absentmindedly strokes her left hand, which is concealed by a thick leather glove.
Her hazel eyes linger on the natural rock formations on the walls and the ceiling.
Seneschal Rosalind waits for everyone to settle down before continuing, "Good."
She looks over her shoulder. Prince Cedric nods back, and she returns her gaze to the rest of the assembly. She promptly declares, "First and foremost, let us remember to always do our best to maintain our Humanity and strive to be the best versions of ourselves that we can possibly be."
She waits for a beat before continuing, "Next, let us remember those who have, unfortunately, perished. We are...looking into the circumstances surrounding their untimely demises. That's all that we can share with you at this moment. Please, Francesca and Laurence...make sure that your respective Primogens get this information."
The Hecata vampire nods and begins to rapidly jot some things down in a thick leather journal of some kind.
The Nosferatu Kindred merely shrugs, "I'll give Otto the abridged version later on when I go and see him."
Seneschal Rosalind slowly replies, "Of course, whatever's comfortable with you, Mr. Lancaster. And Ms. Livroni, please make sure that your...book doesn't fall in the wrong hands, hmm? It'd be a darn shame if it did."
Francesca equably answers, "Sì (ITA: Yes). It is always with me and never leaves my side. I understand the gravity of this situation, Seneschal Rosalind. I will do my best to ensure the integrity of the Masquerade. Always."
Seneschal Rosalind looks back at the Prince, and he nods. He stands up and relieves her, "OK, now onto the matters at hand. There's been some shit goin' down in this city, and it's bad enough that we're starting to get concerned."
The Salubri Seneschal sits herself back down and keenly watches her boyfriend pace around.
His dreadlocks sway around when he walks about, "Somebody is murdering our people, and we're not entirely sure why. So far, most of the victims have been Assamites...Ghouls and Kindred alike." He looks at Amos.
Amos softly chuckles, "What? We don't know jack-squat about the perpetrator or perpetrators, right? The fuck you gazing at me for with those three eyes of yours, huh? Do I look like I had anything to do with that? You know how heated our disagreements with those fakers got, but...I wouldn't stoop THAT low. Heh, it's not my style."
He elaborately throws his arms up, "Oh, c'mon! Besides, what about all those other murders, huh? From what I heard, it's connected to the port and the docks."
Sheriff Marshall strokes his chin, "Huh. Right. What about those grisly killings? Cedric? I--I mean, Prince Cedric, shouldn't we also be concerned about that? Port authorities are dropping dead like flies, left and right."
He recounts, "Dockworkers, supervisors, cargo handlers, vehicle operators, office accountants, clerks...even managers have been found around town with their throats cut or their chests split open. Some of them were still warm when the cops found 'em."
He glares at Amos balefully, "And all of the murders happened at night- I read the police reports..."
The False Assamite side-eyes the Salubri Sheriff, "I don't quite like what you're implying, Salubrian." His tone is quite menacing and very hostile.
Sheriff Marshall lowers his head in shame when Prince Cedric cuts in, "Marshall, can it. Now. Amos, we are terribly sorry for that. Tensions, as you can imagine, are quite high right now."
Amos's dead eyes narrow and his brows furrow, "Yeah, so you say. I don't come here to be accused, OK? My people have a long history of being blamed for all of society's woes. We've been put in the mud before, and we won't put up with it anymore. We're done being the perfect victim for the goyim to ogle and gawk at."
Sheesh, yikes.
Prince Cedric grimaces slightly, "OK, let's not even go down that road. We ain't here to be accusin' no one of anything. Do you, by any chance, happen to know anything that could be of use to us, Mr. Greenberg?"
Amos lifts his chin, "How so? Useful in what way, exactly?"
The three-eyed Prince says, "Any of your...friends work in the docks or around the ports? Do you...have contacts there? Anybody who might've seen something that can help shed some light on this nightmare? Innocent folks are getting hurt, dying, and losing their livelihoods. It's not right. It ain't right."
Amos callously shrugs, his gaze is intense and sharp, "Yes, it's all very tragic and all, but people- mortals, especially- die. From what I see on the news, crime's been going up lately. Heh, no surprise there. I've had to change the locks on some of my--"
Seneschal Rosalind counters, "I don't know what 'news' you've been watching, but crime in this city has actually declined over the years- it's even said to be at an all-time low! Maybe you ought to check your sources before confidently citing them as fact. Be very cautious before making such bold declarations."
However, she does concede, "But I will admit that the sudden spike in violence is a bit disturbing, yes. But we are creatures, primarily, of the long run. Just something for us all to keep in mind."
Amos snorts, "OK, whatever. Crime's up, crime's down. Makes no difference to us Kindred, right? Just as long as we got our warm bodies to chomp into. Speaking of which, is anyone here Hungry?"
Seneschal Rosalind's patience is quickly running out, "Mr. Greenberg. We extend these invites to you as a gesture of good faith. While we are acutely aware of your disagreements with the...other Assamites, this is no time for petty infighting. Please, try and conduct yourself a little better."
Amos sighs, "Yeah, well, I'm Hungry--"
Francesca tells him, "Then, you should've fed before coming here? Or did you expect to be given something- or someone- to slake your eternal thirst?"
Amos snickers, "Now that you mentioned it...do we get subsidized meals down here? Hmm? Hmm?" His eyebrows wiggle up and down.
Prince Cedric shakes his head, "No, we do not. But in the future, I STRONGLY recommend that you keep the Beast at bay before showing up to these meetings. We don't want- or need- anybody Frenzying around like a damn fool."
He gestures to Sheriff Marshall in order to reinforce his point. The Sheriff is a tad bit tense, but he nods and puts in, "Yep. I'd hate to have to put down a Kindred lost in the Wassail."
Amos scoffs, "What's the worst that could happen? Wassail is only if you go too damn long without feeding. You Frenzy, you Frenzy. Just pick up the pieces, get rid of the evidence, and move on."
Seneschal Rosalind visibly grimaces at how indifferent Amos is acting, "No, it's not as simple as that, Mr. Greenberg."
The False Assamite snickers, "Oh, yeah, you'd know, wouldn't you--"
Prince Cedric butts in and points a finger at Amos, "ENOUGH! Don't even think about goin' there! I strongly recommend that you drop this RIGHT NOW!"
Laurence dryly says, "What? Is Rosalind any better than us cuz she only bites into...willing vessels? Consensual feedings and shit, tch. But we're all Beasts."
Francesca stays silent, opting not to say anything or offer her own two cents on the matter.
A deathly silence follows for a moment. Seneschal Rosalind can't bring herself to look at anyone, and she's wringing her hands. Her jaw is clenched, and her brows are furrowed. Her fellow Salubri are just as uncomfortable as her.
Amos adjusts the patterned yarmulke on his head and casually asks, "So, uh...is that it for tonight? I got places to be."
Sheriff Marshall shakes his head and defers to the Prince, who is heaving with barely concealed rage. He calms himself down, forces a deep breath through lifeless lungs, and blinks his three eyes.
Prince Cedric straightens his back and lifts his chin, "We're done when I say we're done. Sit your asses down and don't move until I'm done talkin'. Understood?"
Everyone nods.
The Prince proceeds, "It ain't a full house tonight, but it's acceptable. Whips, please ensure that your respective Primogens get the message about this meetup. I...understand why they ain't present, but in the future, I'd strongly advise that they make the time, move their schedules around, and show up."
Laurence mutters, "Yeah, sure thing."
Francesca firmly nods and quietly jots down some notes, "OK. I will be sure to remind Vincenzo."
Prince Cedric stares at Amos, "And YOU wouldn't happen to know what happened to the Banu Haqim Primogen, would you?"
The Bnei Hashem dismissively waves his hand and scoffs, "He probably got Beckoned away? Disappeared? Went for a really long fucking walk? Gone with the wind? Who gives a shit. I don't."
Sheriff Marshall sighs, "Dr. George Fateh informed us that the Assamite Primogen hasn't been seen...in a while. And I'd trust the good doctor...any night over--" He stops himself from saying more, but he makes sure to give Amos a very pointed look.
The False Assamite does not return it. All he does is smirk fiendishly.
Seneschal Rosalind narrows her three eyes and calls out to the Hecata, "Miss Livroni, that's a nice purse you've got over there. When we last saw each other, I don't believe you had it with you."
The Italian vampire looks at the purse and says, "Oh, this? It is...I found it. Sì, it is...something I...err...located. It is a long story, and I do not know if I would be allowed to share it with you, Seneschal. Scusa (ITA: Sorry)."
Laurence murmurs, "It's just a fucking purse. Expensive looking, too. Why you withholding information, huh?"
Francesca replies, "I would not be able to answer that, Crawler. I--I do not feel fully comfortable just yet. Maybe once I receive a better answer from--never mind. Scusa. It is a lovely night, isn't it?"
She's changing the subject abruptly. Classic. But it's just a Gucci bag, why is she so evasive about it?
Prince Cedric loudly clears his throat, "Gal talk after the meeting. Right now, finding the Banu Haqim Primogen is my number one priority. Everything else- for the time being, at least- goes on the backburner until he's located. Francesca?"
"Yes, Prince Cedric?" Francesca asks, sitting up straighter and giving the Salubri her undivided attention.
"I'd like a word with you in private. After the meeting. You still do that...thing, right? You know what I'm saying, right? That...thing?"
She nods and equably replies, "Sì. I would be more than glad to discuss such matters with you after we are done with tonight's meetup."
Prince Cedric looks over his shoulder, "Marshall? Where is Dr. George, anyway?"
The Sheriff shrugs, "The doc hasn't been seen in...a while. It's not like him to abandon us like that. Not since he and muscle man over there got into an argument over...y'know?"
Amos boldly asserts, "There is no such thing as a Palestinian- never has been, never will be. Simple as. If I hurt that little twerp's feelings, then that ain't my problem. I'm gonna continue being myself, and if he doesn't like that, too fucking bad."
Seneschal Rosalind softly says, "But Shakespeare's writings mention Palestine. And that was way before the establishment of the State of Israel in the forties."
The Bnei Hashem shakes his head, "I don't care. Look, I didn't come all this way to be put under a fucking microscope, alright? I'm here because I'm ready, willing, and able to play ball with you people. But so far, it looks like it's just me doing all the work, making overtures of goodwill and glad tidings to you, and I'm not liking the cold shoulder. Just saying."
Prince Cedric sighs, "Hm. True, you have been making efforts, Mr. Greenberg. And I'm grateful for that. I see that. I appreciate that, too. Respect goes a long, long way in my city."
Seneschal Rosalind clears her throat.
The Prince corrects himself immediately, "Our city. Sorry."
He rubs the base of his neck and mulls some things over before speaking up, "OK, now that that's outta the way. What else is there for you to know? Hmm? Marshall?"
"The power-sharing agreement with those Anarchs down South."
"Ah, right. That. Mm-hmm. We've talked about it before, but I dunno if any of you have heard it before tonight? Amos? Fran? Laurence?"
Shaking heads and shrugs all around.
The Salubri Sheriff sighs, "I've been working with a few of the Anarchs down in Las Estrellas. It isn't...THAT far away from our own Domain. Hell, the Anarchs practically own the Southwestern United States. As such, we strongly believe that it's in our best interests to NOT fight them but rather to have an understanding. We've come to an..."
Seneschal Rosalind takes over, "An agreement. Of sorts. We're hardly in the finalizing stages. Needless to say, YOUR input throughout this process would mean the world to us. Baron Zintoro is not an easy man to deal with. And yes, that is his name. No, don't ask how or why, it's just a...name."
Prince Cedric resumes, "We're trying to convince the other Anarchs to follow suit, but it's a long, long, looong way off. We're still figuring out the details, and we're being very cautious about it. Very."
The Necromancer asks, "What Clan does this Baron Zintoro belong to?"
Sheriff Marshall answers, "Officially? Caitiff. But there are rumors swirling about that he's a Malkavian, although nobody- myself included- has been able to independently verify those claims. So, Caitiff it is. He's your typical, run-of-the-mill Anarch Baron, and the city of Las Estrellas is his Barony."
Laurence growls, "Las Estrellas. That's where all those casinos are, right? Do those Anarchs down there have their fingers in any other pies apart from the biggest one?"
The Sheriff replies, "Not that we know of, no. But like you said, they're pretty big into the whole gambling schtick. They've got more than their fair share of influence."
Amos snickers, "I actually have a bit of money to throw around before the tax people come knocking. Huh, I might swing by when I get some time. They won't try to bite me, right?"
Prince Cedric shakes his head, "If you do decide to go, then you'll be under our protection, Amos. You have my word. Now, I don't endorse gambling or casinos or any shit like that, but I ain't gonna stop other people from doing whatever they want with their money. If you're lucky enough to have it, then use it wisely and enjoy it, I guess."
Seneschal Rosalind shakes her head and sighs a little, "I find the whole thing quite distasteful, but like...Prince Cedric said, it's your money. And yes, we'll be sure to extend our protection to you, Mr. Greenberg. This whole deal with the Anarchs is...fragile."
She stares at the ground and adds, "But we need alliances. Now more so than ever. Even if said alliances are unusual and...a bit weird. It's not as though we're going to see eye-to-eye on everything, but...we have to be able to co-exist. Right?"
Francesca gives a non-committal shrug and quickly jots down a few more points. Her hazel eyes scan the rest of the room before she looks back down and begins furiously scribbling.
Laurence makes a few gurgling noises and wiggles around.
Amos folds his arms and asks, "And what exactly do the Anarchs get out of this itsy-bitsy agreement, hmm? I'm curious, if nothing else."
Prince Cedric tells him, "That's...still a work-in-progress. Right now, we're not quite ready to disclose the finer details. Once we have them figured out, then we'll announce it. Formally."
Sheriff Marshall speaks up, "The port murders are still...concerning. If any of your people happen to know anything, please, don't hold back. Come to us. We can protect you. Innocent people are dying."
Francesca sincerely nods, "I will see how the Hecata Clan can contribute to this matter, Sheriff Marshall. Our...resources are at your full disposal."
The Salubri Prince of this Domain smiles widely, "Now, that's what I like to hear. Fran, make sure you stay back- we are gonna need to have ourselves a private chat after the meetup. And I'm talkin' about important stuff; real important stuff."
Laurence can't help but ask, "How come I'm not invited?"
Seneschal Rosalind fixes him with a sympathetic look, "I know how...inquisitive you Nosferatu can get, but this is simply a private matter between us, Miss Livroni, and the Clan of Death as a whole. Please, try to understand."
Amos lowers his voice, "She's telling you to keep your snout outta this one, Laurence."
The Nossie picks up on that remark and says elects to say nothing further. He clasps his deformed hands together and hangs his head.
Francesca taps her left hand- her gloved hand- on her thick leather journal and smiles politely.
Seneschal Rosalind puts on a smile and declares, "Well, then. Cedric, honey? Anything else to add or shall we conclude this meeting? I'm sure that our...friends have other places to be, people to meet."
The remainder of this Batcave meetup is quick and goes off without too much of a hitch, hiccup, or kerfuffle.
Whoever must leave, does so. Amos doesn't bother with saying a proper goodbye; he just shoves his earphones back on and storms off. He's obviously in a deeply foul mood.
Laurence hobbles away, but through the loose grate leading down, deeper into the cavern. Using his preternatural strength, he effortlessly tears the thang off, leaving the opening large enough for his twisted body to pass through.
The moneyed Sewer Rat grumbles about getting his suit dirty while making a phone call, "Yeah. It's me. Bring the car around. I'll be waiting. Mm-hmm."
Sheriff Marshall's eyebrows go up, "Wow."
Seneschal Rosalind smirks, "Indeed."
Francesca patiently waits. She holds onto her Gucci bag and fidgets with the threads along the edges of her black skirt. She gulps and looks around the cavernous chamber, "I have another engagement, but they can wait for me."
In time, the four vampires get to talking about...certain matters. Fran, for her part, intently and keenly listens to what the other three have to say. The Hecata Whip even has a few things to say, but she mostly lets the others do the talking.
Their conversation is a very serious one. They discuss many, many things. A great deal of it is rather...Morbid.
Elsewhere...
Amos is in his sedan, simply cruising along a (mostly) empty stretch of road. His pale face is scrunched up in a deep frown, and his jaw is clenched. He slows down when he comes across a random group of people lolling about.
He eyes them with an intensity unlike any other and growls, "I am so Hungry, so very Hungry. Let's see what's on the menu tonight..."
The False Assamite stops his car, turns off the ignition, and steps out. The night is quiet. Very, very quiet. But sunrise is nearly around the corner, so he better make this quick.
And quiet. Preferably. But Amos Greenberg hasn't been too shy about leaving exsanguinated bodies in his wake. And he doesn't show a great deal of remorse about his many victims, either.
Back to Lena...
The PI eventually falls asleep. It was quite the struggle at first but sleep she does. And a dream, a dream of endless water comes for her. Yet again, she is cast into the bottomless ocean. The water fills her lungs, and she's pulled down by its irresistible force.
Yet, there is no drowning sensation. None whatsoever. She is...fine. In fact, she's perfectly fine. In the waking world, her chest rises and falls while she rests. Her breathing is soft and gentle. Nay a snore escapes from her lips.
The sun is now up. The Kindred in this Domain are now being pulled into the clutches of the day-sleep. In time, Lena Adams will be dragged into their dark vortex.
Until then, the mortal PI remains none-the-wiser about the existence of vampires...and the others that go bump in the night.
Today is simply another day at work. Lena kinda resents the fact that even Saturdays are workdays for her. But alas, money is money, and she needs every last penny. Not just for herself, but for her family as well.
Her father's medical bills are nothing to sneeze at. And her mother's own salary is hardly enough for them to get by, even if it's just the two of them.
After getting showered and dressed, Lena grabs the newspaper and flicks it open. Her amber eyes scan over the headlines, and she mumbles a few things under her breath. She turns a few pages and her face lights up a little.
Magnolia City has recently been voted the top five most LGBTQ-friendly cities in the Northwestern United States! Absolutely great for a person like Lena.
But the cost of living has been going up these past few months. Lena looks at her recent utility bills and already feels a small headache coming on- nothing copious amounts of coffee won't be able to fix!
(The headaches, not the bills).
Lena pointedly asks no one in particular, "Here in America, why is it so frowned upon to live with your parents or--or extended family members? Auntie Esther would've loved to have me stay with her, right?"
She chuckles a little, "Heh. Maybe. OK, off to work now. At least Sundays are my day off. Lemme see if I can get a date to top this tiring week off."
The young woman gets herself together and heads to the front door.
Lena, for her part, wasn't initially willing to part ways with her parents and brother. The first few weeks were quite difficult. But soon enough, she grew to accept the fact that she was going to have to live on her own.
Still, a part of her does feel...lonely. And being so far away from home (or what counts as "home") does not make it any easier for her to cope at times.
Oh, the many times the Private Investigator had to fight back the tears!
She swings by GROUND BEANZ, grabs some quick grub, a very large cup of coffee, and consumes them without too great of a fuss. She buys another small cup of coffee, refuses to tip, and walks out.
But she does feel somewhat bad for those tired, baggy-eyed baristas who have to fulfill all sortsa crazy and wacky orders. Some soccer mom came in and showed the young barista something on her phone- likely some trendy, fancy drink- and expected the barista to whip it up immediately.
The plights of a sub-minimum wage employee in the hellscape that is the service and hospitality industry.
Crystal Street Station looks...the same. But there are parts of it which are starting to show their age. A couple of the tracks have even become rusted. Some of the grimy grime on the walls has a certain tint to it.
So far, these issues seem fixable and won't cost the city much. It's just a question of whether the powers-that-be (tm) deem it worth fixing.
While waiting for the choo-choo train to arrive, Lena tosses her small cup into the colored bin and leans against a railing. She's not quite in a hurry, not yet anyway.
She's got time, so she pulls out her phone and opens the dating app titled: "FemmeConnect". A few notifications pop up, indicating that certain ladies have shown interest in the PI who works for Pluto Enterprises by day.
A part of her wants to open her messages and see who's interested in chatting her up. The train isn't anywhere close, so...Lena knows that she has time to spare, and it's not like her to be all shy and bashful about initiating a conversation.
A message pops up in the app, and it's from a person named Elise. No profile picture, but her bio does mention that works in a salon as a hairdresser, makeup artist, and nail technician.
Elise's brief (and generic) message reads: Hey, so I was wondering if you'd like to go for a walk and maybe grab something? You seem like a beautiful woman, Lena."
Lena bites her lower lip and types back: "Elise. Cute name. And sure, why not? It's a nice day out. How about this evening?"
Miss Adams wasn't expecting Elise to be online, but the reply she gets is instant, and a smile creeps onto her face.
It reads: "Can't, love, sorry. Busy @ work. Salons, you know how they are. Especially on weekends! We're practically booked! But we should schedule something. You seem like an interesting woman. I would very much like to stay in touch with you."
While Lena thinks of what to type back, she asks herself, "I wonder what Yvonne would think of her. Oh, well..."
She slowly types back: "That sounds wonderful. BTW, if you want more interest in your profile, add a picture- doesn't matter if it's grainy or a few years older. Otherwise, gals on here will think you're trying to pull a fast one on them. And you might lose future dates. Or get banned from the app altogether."
Miss Adams sends a wink and a kiss emoji. Hmm, spicy!
Elise responds with a string of heart and smiling face emojis. Cute!
The train hisses to a stop, and the passengers either alight or board.
Lena is the latter. She boards the train and takes a seat near the center. A scruffy man wearing fingerless gloves is fast asleep on the other side, his snoring filling the otherwise quiet train car. A small red cup sits in his lap. The quarters inside jingle when he shifts a little.
A mother with two young children is seated a few paces away from him. She grimaces slightly, making sure to keep her kids away from the man's scarred feet. A young man with curly hair sits near the window and plays some music from his earphones.
Lena sighs, fishes into her bag, and pulls out a few coins. She slowly rises up and tosses them into the cup, "Here, I hope it helps you out, buddy."
Snores and sniffs are the only replies she gets.
When the train arrives at the next station, the people disembark and board. The doors close, and the train speeds off, continuing its journey north.
Lena walks into the Pluto Enterprises office and greets everyone. Not a single person is too bothered about her being right on time, like always. She dutifully clocks in, takes off her duffel coat and drapes it over the back of her chair.
She turns on her computer and gets...started. And to think that her Saturdays are gonna start and end the same way, every week, for however long this job lasts.
Lena is a little bit sad that she's going to be spending her such a lovely day in this office, but hey, it's not that bad of a space. Aesthetically speaking, of course.
But in Magnolia City, there are far better ways to spend one's Saturdays. The sun is out in full force, beaming and shining on the mortals, and the sky is clear. It's a good day, a great day, and a day well spent.
At least that's what Lena is hoping. After a few hours of non-stop staring at the screen and doing...spreadsheet stuff, Lena's phone vibrates. It's a message from one of her close friends.
It reads: "Yo, Leens, gurl. U free 2day? Me and Tobes planning 2 grab sum grub @ this Greek place. Gyros and all. U down?"
Lena smiles a bit. Her fingers glide over the virtual keyboard: "I'll take an early lunchbreak. Still at work. Don't worry, I'll be there, Eddie. How's the garage doing? How's Toby keeping? I've been meaning to contact him, but work- both PE and PI- have had me busy lately."
Eddie texts back: "Toby's doing fine. Taking his...boy meds or juice or whatever they're called. We should catch up. And catching up over Gyros is always a good thing, right? Heh. be there Soon. Don't leave us hanging. But we won't ever start munching without you."
Lena's smile grows wider, and she replies: "OK, see you in a few hours. Text me the address to this Greek place."
Her friend does so and she stares at the address, nods firmly, and returns to work. It's not a long wait until the time for Lena's lunchbreak comes up. She gulps down the last bits of her seventh cup of coffee and tosses the paper cup into the appropriate recycling bin.
Lena checks her reflection in the mirror and wipes off the droplets of coffee on her lips.
Well, it's time for some Gyros and catching up with friends!
The Greek restaurant in question has a rustic vibe to it- dark wooden tables and chairs, glass windows with an excellent view of an abstract art museum a few feet away, and the faint scent of lamb meat is in the air.
The bells chime when Lena walks into the restaurant. There are quite a few people present in this establishment. While it lacks in an air-conditioning system, the patrons aren't complaining about it. But there are an adequate number of oscillating fans mounted on the ceilings to make up for it.
Lena sees two men seated at a square table, they're both on their phones and chuckling at something or the other. From their backs alone, she recognizes them.
She quietly circles around them and slides into an empty chair. Eddie and Toby both look up from their phones and smile at her.
They both smile and greet their friend. It's been a long time since they last got together. Adult responsibilities and shit- bills, rent, mortgages, taxes, vehicle insurance, life insurance, debt repayments- yada yada yada- keep getting in the way.
Eddie Rivera-Torres works as a mechanic (cars, bikes, all kinds of machine-beauties) in a local garage. He has caramel skin, an uneven hairline, and is well into his thirties. A bad attempt at a ducktail beard completes his look- last time, he had a chinstrap beard. It's currently gone.
He hails from Puerto Rico, but has spent a significant portion of his adult life in the US of A.
"Yo, yo, yo, Leens! Wazzup, gurl!" Eddie greets her, and his smile grows even wider when she leans over and gives him a big hug.
Toby Fetscher works in the same garage alongside Eddie- they've been pals long before Lena herself showed up. He has very fair and freckled skin, a big nose, curly auburn hair, and wears a blue, checkered shirt. Like Eddie, his build is somewhat wiry.
He is a transgender man who is still very much in the process of not only transitioning but also figuring out the whole "manhood" thing. He's at that awkward, uncomfortable, and extremely crucial stage of life, so to speak.
Toby's friends- mainly Lena and Eddie- have supported him throughout his journey. He's come a very long way since then.
Lena takes Toby's hands in hers and smiles warmly, "Hi, Toby. I missed you. Both of you."
Eddie chuckles, "So, Gyros, right?"
He looks at the menu card and exclaims, "They got so many here! Hey, look, they even have an option to make your own. Tobes, you might dig that, hmm?"
Toby concedes with a chuckle of his own, his voice is quite low and husky, "Heh, I would. I'm pretty hungry, Eddie. That last oil change took a lot longer than it was supposed to."
Eddies smiles back at him, "It's the pay and benefits, right? So, Lena, how have things been with you, chica? How's the week treated you? We got ourselves a lotta catching up to do."
Toby puts in, "We--we do. And I also have some stuff for you. If...you're OK with taking them home?"
Lena has an inkling of what they are, "Sure thing. Yeah, we should. But let's make our orders before we do the whole catching up thing, huh?"
The trio summon a waiter- a dashing young man with a tan, windswept hair, and a very long Greek name- and order their respective dishes.
The PI orders a fish gyro; Eddie goes for two vegan gyros with extra pomegranates; lastly, Toby asks for a large beef gyro but without the mayo. A complementary plate of salad and dips is also delivered to the table.
Toby breaks the ice with a question, "So...detective Lena Adams. Any new cases or is it just the same old, same old? Or are you currently on somebody's trail right now?"
Lena shakes her head, "Nah. Well, I do have...something that isn't the usual, but I can't quite...tell either of you about it. This one's way more sensitive than some alleged steamy affair with an intern at a prestigious law firm."
She rubs her face and adds with a groan, "And this whole damn week has been exhausting."
(The PI isn't too comfy with sharing the deets of her new case- and rightly so!)
Eddie pops a carrot into his mouth, "You got a new case."
"I got a new case," Lena vaguely confirms with a nod of her head.
Toby pokes the cucumber slices with his fork, grimaces, and decides not to have it, "What about your actual job? How's that been coming along? You know, I still tell myself that your job at Pluto Enterprises has absolutely nothing to do with the solar system, hahaha!"
Lena laughs along, "Yeah. Heh. It's the usual song-and-dance routine. Anyway, enough about me. How's the garage doing? How's it treating the two of you?"
Toby shifts around, "Eh. Maybe there's more variety compared to your office job. Eddie, you're way better at this than I am. Tell her about the low-lows."
Eddie snickers, "He means the lowriders. Haha! Yeah, we got a lowrider to fix up. Client's from Flimont City- y'know, that crazy place in the Midwest with non-existent public transport and all? The dude's got money to throw around for his baby, so he just left the ride here with us and told us to make sure that it's as good as new."
Toby interjects, "'Even better than new'. His words. And when I shook his hand, it...was kinda cold. Weird."
Eddie nudges Toby with his elbow, "Ah, don't jinx us. We need the business, Tobes. We gotta finish it up, polish the car, and deliver it to him on time. And I smell lunch coming our way."
He rubs his palms together and expectantly stares at the plates of food being set in front of them. When the waiter's arm brushes near Toby's shoulder, the latter inadvertently flinches and lets out a small whimper.
Lena sympathetically winces, as does Eddie. The waiter's eyes widen in shock. Toby goes silent and freezes in place. His jaw goes slack.
Eddie is quick to reassure the waiter, "Hey, hey, not your fault, buddy. Long day. It's fine, we got it. Don't worry, we won't sue you or anything. Just...don't talk tell anybody about this, yeah?"
The waiter nods and shuffles away, sparing a look over his shoulder as he does so.
Toby fights back the tears and swallows hard. He's trembling a little bit. Eddie reaches over and gently pats his friend on the shoulder. Lena reaches forward and cups Toby's hands in hers.
They both recognize the fear in Toby's gray eyes. He is, after all, a victim of intimate partner violence (IPV). Beneath most of his long-sleeved shirts are scars of the various beatings and strangulations he's endured at the hands of his former partner.
Lena gently shushes him, "Shh, shh. It's fine. Those days are long behind you. You don't have to worry about it anymore, Toby. We're here."
Eddie nods along, "That puta is long gone now. C'mon, let's dig in, alright? You want a small piece of one of my gyros?"
Toby blinks and shakes his head, "I--I'm fine. Thanks, you two. Uh, yeah, let's eat." He lowers his head and stares at his meal for a few seconds longer than usual, his teary eyes lingering on the pita bread and the contents therein.
He picks up his knife and fork, grips them a bit too tightly, and takes a few breaths. The mechanic then looks at the abstract sculpture in front of that abstract museum, but the faraway, thousand-yard stare is quite evident on his face.
He tries to focus on something else- anything else.
Eddie chews his food and offers, "We love you and we care for you, man. No matter what, right, Lena?"
"Always."
They spend a few moments, silently eating. Halfway through the meal, Toby gets up and goes to fetch some items from the car which he and Eddie arrived in. His hands have stopped trembling.
He sits down, takes a long, long drink, and looks out of the window. A large plastic bag full of clothes rests on the empty chair next to Lena.
Eddie looks at the bag and asks, "What's with all this? Oh. Right." He goes back to munching on his food.
Lena looks at the bag, too. Her eyebrows shoot up a little, "Wow. Are you sure? Hey, I mean if you wanna give more to charity, shelters, and thrift stores, then I'm OK with it. This is...a lot."
Toby shakes his head, "I already gave most of it away, don't worry. Go on, take a look inside. I--I do hope it's to your liking, though..." The shyness in his tone is fairly evident.
Lena nods and pulls the bag over to her. She wipes her hands with a tissue and takes a peek inside. It's mostly t-shirts, blouses, sweaters, and coats from the time when Toby was still known as Celeste.
The gumshoe pulls out a random black t-shirt that's on the tighter side of things. She squints at the words scrawled on it and reads out, "'Mostly Void. Partially Stars.' Huh. Any idea what that means?"
Toby pokes a tomato apart and shrugs, "Dunno. Sorry. I even forgot who and when I got it from. But I do remember the where, though. Uh...New Jersey. Rahway. Yeah, there. I...wow, that feels like a really long time ago, huh."
Eddie slightly groans, "Aww, c'mon! Don't remind me of gettin' old, Tobes. I know that we all gotta do it eventually. Someday. But not today. Not anytime soon, y'know? I don't wanna dwell on it."
Lena shoves the t-shirt back inside the plastic bag and sets it aside, "I've actually been to Rahway for a sabbatical. Honestly, it was nothing special."
Eddie asks her, "Would you go again? Judging by how baggy your eyes are, you could use a nice, long break."
Lena scoffs, "To Rahway? Nah, not really. Believe it or not, but I'm actually quite comfortable here in Magnolia City. And I have my commitments, too; I can't just up and leave whenever the first whimsical urge comes to me. Plus, I don't really have anyone to go on those trips with, anyway."
Toby incredulously asks, "Still no special lady in your life?"
"Nope," Lena shakes her head, "And I'm OK with that."
(In truth, she is quite lonely in that aspect. She craves for a lady's long-term companionship, the sensuous touch of another woman, the warmth of another fine vixen's bosom. But she doesn't wanna admit that- at least not right now!)
She changes the subject, "Thanks for the clothes, Toby. It saves up on a few trips to the stores."
(Lena usually shops at the thrift stores, but she's not gonna openly admit that anytime soon. A majority of her clothes are from those kinds of places, actually. Not that she's complaining! They're perfectly good and wearable. And durable after a great many tumble-washes, too!)
The mechanic scratches the back of his neck and gives her a thumbs-up, "Sure thing. Always glad to help a close friend out. Right, Ed?"
Ed has some dipping sauce dripping down his chin. He quickly wipes it off with his palm, leaving streaks of it smeared all over. He smiles, "I'm glad you got a whole new wardrobe, Leens. Heh-heh." He awkwardly reaches out for a tissue and dabs at the remaining stains on his face.
The conversation eventually segues into hobbies and extracurriculars.
Ed declares, "So, I was thinking of taking up a few pottery classes at Magnolia City Community College. Leens? Interested?"
"Nope."
Toby shrugs and shyly says, "I'm actually OK with what I've got right now- working on cars is fulfilling in its own way. I'm not that artistic or anything, I don't think so, anyways. I'm pretty sure that I'd make a mess if--if I tried the pottery thing, uh...Eddie."
The other mechanic rubs his friend's back and encourages him, "Aww, c'mon. Don't say that. If it ain't for you, then it ain't for you. But I'm signing myself up. Next batch starts on...Wednesday, I think. I gotta check the schedules, though."
Lena munches on her gyro and asks, "Eddie, this is a bit of a strange question. But over the past few weeks, did a car with a dent- maybe a bit of blood- come by your garage? It's...for something that I'm looking into. Did you or Toby see anything like that? It's...important."
Eddie abruptly shifts in his seat and uncomfortably scratches his chin. He shakes his head from side to side, "Um...no. Tobes?"
"Not that I recall. Nope. If we did, though, we'd have instantly reported it to the authorities. I dunno how useful that'd be- we all know how useless they are in this city- but...we would've remembered something like that pulling up to the garage. Ed? The uh...surgeries over these past few weeks have been taxing."
The PI nods, "It's fine. Ed? Anything? Anything at all?"
Eddie gulps some water down, pours himself another glass from the pitcher, and shakes his head again. He sighs and runs his fingers through his hair, "Nope. Like Tobes said: we'd have reported it. But we didn't see...a thing outta the ordinary. No dents, definitely no blood. Just carburetors, overdue oil changes, and sparkplugs, y'know? Hey, I've had my share of oddball customers, but this? Nah."
Toby shakes his head, "Yeah, he's right, Lena. These past few weeks have been decidedly mundane. Heh." He chuckles nervously, and the laugh sounds somewhat forced.
Lena's brows knit together in deep thought, and her fingers drum on the table, "You're sure?"
Eddie's face tics and he casually shrugs, "Mm-hmm. Now, c'mon, don't glower at us like that- you have a habit of doing that. We're your friends, Leens. We love you, well not that kinda love, of course. But uh...you get what I'm saying, right? Tobes?"
Toby softly smiles and doesn't say much else except nod along to Eddie's words. His friend has always been able to cheer him up. And that usually goes in both directions.
Lena's tense expression softens, but only a little. Yet, there is still that scrutinizing glare in her amber eyes, and her fingers continue to drum.
Eddie excuses himself and shuffles off to the bathroom. Toby averts his gaze and stares longingly at the abstract sculpture in front of that aforementioned museum.
He muses, "What...does it signify? What is it supposed to be about? All that bent and twisted metal. Huh. MC cubed is offering a few classes on the subject. Maybe? Should I?"
("MC cubed" is what some people call Magnolia City Community College, well because of the three Cs in its name.)
Lena regards Toby with a somewhat sympathetic look, "How's everything going? You haven't seen any suspicious people in the garage, have you? Dents, blood--"
Tobes clicks his tongue, "C'mon, Lena. I work with Ed in the garage day in and day out. Sometimes we even do double-digit shifts. I'd know if there was a car that came in with a dent or a fresh bloodstain. And Eddie would sure as hell notice."
He turns his attention to her and sighs, "Unlike your nice office job, being a mechanic is a very physical, hands-on kind of thing. It's not all about computers and the Internet, y'know? And after I'm done, I get to go back to my rent-controlled apartment, watch a few minutes of TV, try and get some sleep, get up, and get ready to do it all over again. That's the life."
Lena dismissively states, "I get it- it's not easy. And for the record, my job isn't just about computers and the Internet, OK?"
Toby looks away and lowers his voice, "Can we please not do this now? Look, we had a nice lunch, caught up, and got to hang out with each other. Let's not end it on a sour note? Please?"
Lena waves her hand, "Sure. Whatever. Yeah. I--I should probably head out. Oh, Eddie's coming. Hmph."
Ed chuckles heartily, totally oblivious to the tension between the two of his friends. He sits down and grins from ear to ear. But his grin slowly fades away when he sees the all-too-familiar scowl on Lena's face.
He winces and pulls out his wallet. He snaps his fingers and asks for the check, even going so far as to offer to pay for everyone's meals. Usually, the three of them pay for their own meal, but Ed insists that today's lunch is on him.
"Uh, this one's on me. Don't worry."
He does not want to be a part of whatever awkwardness is happening between either of them.
Toby shakily asks, "Are you sure? But didn't you say that your grandparents had--"
Eddie interjects, "Ah, it's taken care of. I got myself a lil' extra spending money. Just wanted to treat y'all. And, yeah, my grandparents are doing good. Thanks for asking."
(He has been living with his grandparents ever since the 2008 financial crisis. He had to move back in with them after they lost everything- including their old house. Now, they all live in a place that, while not terrible, is starting to get a bit cramped.)
Ed smugly chuckles and counts out his extra dollar bills; he even leaves a very generous tip for the waiter. Now, Lena has known him for years now. He's always iffy about tipping, only doing so out of guilt or so the staff won't give him the stink eye.
Lena can't help but silently wonder to herself, "Where exactly did he get that extra cash from? He always says that times are tough- which they are! But...how?"
Eddie notices Lena side-eyeing him, so he subtly shakes his head. He knows that look all too damn well. In time, the trio says their goodbyes, and the friends split up.
Lena grabs the bag of clothing and saunters back to her office.
Eddie walks up to that abstract sculpture and strokes his chin while inspecting it from various angles. Toby shoves his hands in his pockets and looks around, seeing all the college kids idly relaxing on the ground, the trees, and even the fountain in the far distance. A few birds are flying over.
A few of them land on a bench. The unoccupied ones, that is.
Eddie calls out, "Hey, take a pic of me in front of this thing. Tobes!"
Toby pulls out his cracked smartphone, taps his thumb on the camera app, and squints.
(He doesn't have a nice camera, but the phone does the job in a pinch.)
Eddie takes a single knee and flashes double peace signs with both of his hands. His cap is on backwards and his expression is fairly laidback.
Toby lowers his phone, taps a few more things, and looks at the photo. Ed comes up and nods approvingly.
"Cool! Hey, get that cracked glass fixed sometime soon, hmm? C'mon, let's head back to the garage. So, do you think I'd be a good fit for pottery classes? I've always wanted to try my jazz hands at something new."
"I think you'll like it. How much is it, anyway?"
"Eh, I got the cash for it."
Toby lowers his head and slows down a bit, "Y--you're not withholding anything from Lena, right? I--I mean, you were acting kinda funny and weird when she asked about the dents and the blood."
Ed waves his hand dismissively, "C'mon, Tobes. You know how Lena Adams can be sometimes."
"But if we saw something like that, then we--we'd absolutely report it, ri--right?"
Eddie fixes his friend with a dull gaze, "What're you getting at? Look, we're cool. I didn't see nothing. You didn't see nothing, either."
Toby pointedly asks, "Then how did you get the extra money, Ed??"
"What, a man can't spend a little extra cash on his friends?"
Toby nervously rubs the base of his neck and picks up the pace, noticing how briskly Eddie is walking. He sighs and tries again, "Are--are you doing something...you shouldn't be doing?"
Eddie adjusts the cap on his head and sighs heavily, "What?! No! I just got some extra money to throw around, that's all. Don't read sooooo much into it. Hey, maybe all those boy meds that you're on have a--a...uh...side effect?"
Woops.
Toby glares at Ed and stops in his tracks. He stares at his friend.
Eddie realizes his mistake and scratches the back of his head, "I--I didn't mean it like that. You know I've always supported you throughout not only your transition journey but also your healing process after the whole...abuse thing."
Toby holds up a finger, his voice faltering, "J--just don't. Please. And yes, I know how supportive you and Lena have been. E--especially you, Ed. But--"
The mechanic lets out a strained chuckle and continues, "But it does get to a point where it feels a bit condescending at times. I'm not trying to be an ungrateful asshat or anything. If you don't wanna talk about where or how you got the money, then that's...fine, I guess. I don't wanna pry."
Eddie puts his arm around Toby's shoulder and walks with him, "Look, it's fine. We all got our own secrets, hmm? And it's not like Leens is Miss Perfect or something. I mean, you know how...dismissive she can be at times."
Toby's jaw clenches, "Yeah. She can be pretty dismissive and come off as rude. I remember how she let loose on that cosplayer from last year's comic con. Whoof! Sheesh, she just blurted it out to the poor girl."
Eddie shakes his head, "Heh, yeah. Lena absolutely hates that nerd stuff and all those comic book game conventions and whatnot. And she makes no secret of it, either. Damn, I still remember that cosplayer chick was on the brink of tears after our PI friend tore a strip outta her. Good thing no one recorded the fucking thing. That could've been a lawsuit waiting to happen."
Toby sucks some air through his teeth, "It could have. But hey, we're all adults and mature enough to know how to handle ourselves. Lena's still...a great person; she means well. And it's not like either of us are flawless. We all make mistakes and have...weird quirky things that sorta define us but also don't."
"Mm-hmm. I get what you're saying, Tobes. C'mon. So, how'd the last surgery go. I'm not prying, I don't wanna make this weird, and I'm not trying to make you uncomfortable on purpose- I just wanna know how you're doing. It's been a while since your last one, right?"
"Hm. Yeah. Mind if I take off early today? I got an appointment with a voice coach. You know, to help me get rid of the last remnants of the whole...squeaky--"
"I know, I know. Yeah, go on. Ed's always got your back. Always."
"T--thank you. You have no idea how--how much this means to me, Eddie..."
The rest of Lena's afternoon goes by in a blur of spreadsheets, work, numbers and letters on a computer screen, tons of photocopies, lots of coffee being guzzled down, and some additional paperwork.
By the time work ends, she's tired. She rubs the bridge of her nose, stands up, and walks out of her workplace without saying goodbye or even bothering to announce her immediate departure.
Her co-workers either remain glued to their screens or have made their own exits hours earlier.
The sun is setting, and the air is getting cooler. Small mercies. By the time Lena gets to her PI office, the sky above is in a shade of blue-black, and the streetlights have already flickered on.
She steps into her office, opens the window, and flops down on her chair with a long and drawn-out groan-sigh. The PI spins on her chair a few times, takes off the red scrunchie holding her ponytail in place, shakes her head around, and lets it all cascade down to her shoulders.
Lena reaches out for the mug sitting on her desk and inspects it with a fairly bland expression etched onto her face. Her eyes dart away, and her nose wrinkles.
Time for some coffee! After she gets herself a steaming cup, she sits down and begins going over the relevant information pertaining to Tyler's case.
She sips her coffee, reads a few documents, and writes down a few notes. Her bleary-eyed stare goes from page to page, the tiredness being staved off by the constant intakes of caffeine.
Soon, the coffee runs out, and Lena is still stuck with her current task. This is gonna go on for hours. Such is the life of a snoop in Magnolia City! She does break up the monotony, however, by occasionally checking messages on FemmeConnect, hoping for something good.
Elise has shown great interest, as have a few other chicks. Lena immediately discounts anyone younger than her, anyone who has vaguely nerd-adjacent stuff in their pictures, or those who have pictures of their pets instead of their actual faces.
She also grunts in derision when video games, anime, and/or comic books are listed as hobbies or interests on the profiles of the other prospective matches. Lena has nothing but contempt for such things.
(The gumshoe even goes so far as to block those women's profiles.)
Lena's attention is drawn away from her phone by the sound of a nearby door opening and closing. Must be one of the neighboring small bidness owners locking up for the night and heading home. Lucky them.
Elsewhere...
Laurence Lancaster, Neonate of Clan Nosferatu stands in front of a massive mansion made of sandstone. His hunched-over form is dressed in a dark gray suit and teal tie. A scarf goes around his hideously deformed neck.
He hobbles up to the front door with a grunt and brings his twisted hand to the doorbell. After a few rings, the door is promptly opened by a tall man dressed in a somewhat similar manner to Laurence.
The expressionless butler bows his head, steps aside, and wordlessly ushers the Nosferatu inside.
The butler's thin lips part as a tiny gasp escapes from them. His expression remains unchanged, however, and he ushers the Nossie down a hall and into the foyer.
On the inside, the tiled floor is pristine, polished to a smooth, shiny finish. The wooden wall paneling appears new, and the ceiling is adorned with high chandeliers whose diamonds and other precious stones glitter and gleam.
Curved dual staircases ascend up to a first-floor landing. The railings are made of dark wood, as are the bannisters.
This place oozes old world luxe vibes in every nook and cranny. And yet, a great many modern conveniences have been baked in- hidden surveillance cameras in angles no one would ever think to look at, multiple exits and escape routes, and the ability to bring the shutters down should the need call for it.
Laurence waits in the big-ass sitting room. He stumbles onto a leather sofa and throws his head back. Normally, the owner of this Haven wouldn't permit such things, but Laurence and said owner are on speaking terms, so he's allowed his eccentricities.
After a few minutes, a woman walks in, carrying two empty wine glasses on them. She silently sets them on the glass table, gulps fearfully, and quickly takes her leave.
Laurence's grubby fingers reach out, and he inspects the wine glass with a toothy smile, "Otto sure knows how to entertain a guest."
A deep and menacing laugh echoes from behind him. It bounces off the walls and enters Laurence's eardrums. He turns around, but there is nobody there. Another bout of laughter soon follows.
Laurence's fingers tense and quiver.
An unusually tall and bald man with pointy ears, a twisted, pimply face, and blood-red eyes casually walks into the room. He is adorned in a long black coat that barely touches his knees, slim-fitting pants, and polished shoes.
His cracked lips part, revealing chipped yellow teeth, some of which are missing. His big ears twitch, and his dead eyes slowly roam over to the wine glasses.
Laurence sighs, "Otto..."
The Nosferatu Primogen of Magnolia City replies, "Laurence Lancaster." Without saying anymore, he sets his walking stick aside and swiftly sits on the opposite sofa.
The two vampires regard each other, the silence between them deafening.
Otto Weinbauer's grin is more eerie than welcoming, "How was last night's meeting, my friend?"
Laurence shrugs, "We spoke. Not many were there- just that Italian chick, that Jewish guy, and me. And how can we forget--"
"The Council of Nine Eyes. Hmph. But Cedric our Prince enables us to have a good thing here. So, don't knock it. Anything of note? Skip the boring parts, please. These nights, I find myself having less and less patience for the affairs of the Court."
Laurence grunts, "You never had any patience."
Otto counters, "Hah! You're one to talk. I knew you since you were a fucking Fledgling. Remember those initial nights, when you were kicking, screaming, scratching, biting, and all of that? You were in denial of what she did to you, but you came around...eventually. And how very convenient of your Sire to take her leave after turning you. Heh."
"I--I'm a different person now."
"No, you're not. Stop lying to me- and to yourself. If there's nothing of note that happened at last night's meeting, then I'm not interested. Like I always say: why knock it? Prince Three Eyes enables us Nossies, gives us a wide berth to Embrace, feed, do our thing, and all that jazz."
Laurence languidly gestures to the empty glasses, "Is that shit just for show or are you planning to share some?"
Otto's mouth twists into a smirk, "It's freshly squeezed. Patience. What's a few wasted minutes to creatures of eternity, hmm? Any news on my Banu Haqim counterpart yet? Have they found him? I've sent my feelers out in every conceivable direction."
Laurence leans forward, "And?"
"Tch. And nothing. And that makes me very disappointed. You know how it is, don't you?"
The other Crawler nods, "Mm-hmm. Cryptophilia. We just gotta know shit. It doesn't matter. We just...gotta know it. No matter who- or what- stands in our way. And we sure as heck ain't in the sharing business- not unless it's for a bigger, better secret."
Otto laughs, "Our Clan's Compulsion is a wonderful way to excuse otherwise inexcusable...actions, wouldn't you agree?"
"Sure. And what are you doing these nights? Still pretending to be into fancy wines and shit?"
"Well, I am forever fifty-five. So, I am caught in a permanent, never-ending flux of being in and out of a midlife crisis. Heh. Besides, being a sommelier is a great cover. For all sorts of things."
"Mm-hmm. And the name kinda fits. Wein...bauer. What was it last decade?"
Otto dismissively waves his hand, "Weinbauer is the name I'm going with for this decade, possibly longer. And you're right, it fits neatly- like a glove- with the sommelier cover. It's just perfect, right?"
Laurence's nose twitches, "I--I guess so."
"What's with the sour look on your ugly face, huh? C'mon, spit it out, Lancaster. And for fuck's sake, get a name change already. You can certainly afford it- I don't see why you still stubbornly hold onto it like it means anything anymore. Ditch it. Unless you're trying to get us all turned to piles of ashes--"
Laurence twitches and emphatically insists, "I'm NOT! I'll work on my ID when I feel like it, not when you tell me to. And, c'mon, where's the blood? I'm tired of staring at two empty wine glasses!"
Otto shakes his head, "Impatient just like you were during the very first night of your transformation. Ah, some people. You know the deal, Laurence. The blood? When it's time. Don't rush the process. It's delicate."
"Is that the same thing you tell all your sommelier friends?"
"Hah! Unlike you, I can actually pass for something resembling a not-ugly human being and mingle among polite society. You, on the other hand, got the fuck-you end of our Clan's Repulsiveness. And that's just great and all, but it does come with its fair share of challenges, hmm?"
Laurence mumbles, "Don't remind me of it."
Otto waggles a bent and crooked finger, "But see, that's just the thing..." He trails off when the same woman from before shakily returns with a tall wine bottle. She sets it down, avoids looking at either man, and promptly exits the room.
Otto sniffs at the air, "Hm. Earthy with a hit of fear and anxiety. Very interesting."
Laurence reaches out, but Otto swats his hand away, "Ah, ah, ah. Manners. My Haven- my mansion- my rules. Keep that Beast of yours in check. Seriously. Do I do that when I'm in your digs, huh? Do I?"
Mr. Lancaster forcefully sighs and shakes his head, "No. You don't. But I'm Hungry! And it's getting increasingly harder to procure vessels ever since what happened."
"Heh, yeah. RIP. Oh, well, at least I still have my ways..." Otto trails off, opens the wine bottle, and pours out two generous glasses of deep red liquid. Its thickness reminds Laurence of tar for some reason.
The vampires raise their glasses and drink their respective sanguine portions.
Otto smacks his lips, lets out a content sigh, and throws his misshapen head back. His neck is completely twisted, and his clammy skin is unnaturally tight, so much so that the veins beneath are visible.
Laurence averts his gaze and feels the roaring Beast within him calming down, seemingly satiated by the recent treat.
Otto rubs his stomach, "Aaaah...that hits all the sore spots."
"You were saying something before we got interrupted. I don't like interruptions or half-ass conversations. Out with it. Now."
Otto grins fiendishly, "Well, look at you. It looks like the blood gave you some Dutch courage, huh? Is this how you always treated your employees back at Lancaster-SYS? Hey, don't get me wrong, I respect the way you do things- I really do. But...I'm not them. I'm not some fucking drone that you can push around like a toy or a piece of furniture."
Laurence shakes his head, "I know. Sorry."
"There's your second mistake. Apologizing. It weakens you, makes you like some of those other sad sacks who bear our Clan's name in other Domains- all huddled together like rats in their sewers. Stupid Warrens. Just nothing more than a bunch of wannabe communists playing house. Pfft."
Laurence shrugs, "I don't disagree. We should've destroyed those places, right?"
Otto states, "Not a half bad idea, all things considered. But the Warrens have become so entrenched in the minds and culture of our Clan that destroying them outright would mean more problems than solutions. And there's already enough trouble going on as is."
Laurence murmurs, "The Second Inquisition..."
Otto clicks his tongue, "Gah! Those fanatics aren't shit. Neither is the Sabbat. And the Anarchs are jokers, but they're our clowns if we play our cards right."
"And the others?"
"What others? They barely register as blips on the radar. Now, can we please stop getting sidetracked and focus on the topic at hand, huh?"
Laurence counters, "What IS the topic at hand?"
"I'm getting to it. Sheesh. I know that you're only a decade into this, but you've still got a long, long way to go, Laurence. Let me speak. So, as I was saying: I'm getting to it."
Mr. Lancaster sighs heavily and silently gestures for his Primogen to continue.
Otto sets his empty glass aside and obliges, "You see, we're both men of extraordinary money, aren't we? Right? I mean, you haven't already gone and blown off your hundreds of millions on some useless, stupid shit, have you? Hey, don't look at me like that, I'm just teasing. Hell, I could blow off half my riches, and I'd still be rich enough to last another few decades."
Laurence nods along, "So could I. Is there a point to all this or just another bored attempt at measuring dicks?"
"Hahahahahaha! Ever the humorous one. And yes, there is a point. You see, it's not a secret that I have been making certain...investments lately. I'm not revealing any more than that- and don't you dare try to figure it out. Find your own niche and exploit it till it's drained dry. That's how we get ahead, right?"
"Uh-huh. Even when I was a mortal, I've never been squeamish about doing what it takes to not only be successful but to also stay that way for the longest possible amount of time. You're not that different."
The Nossie Primogen confirms, "I'm not that different. Anyways, our money can...buy us a hell lotta things, can't it? Women, cars, property, shares in the next big thing, watches, clothes, suits, cravats, scarves, vacations, and the like."
"Right. And?"
"But our money can also...nullify our deficiencies. And what is our most prominent one to date, my friend? Now, before you open your trap and answer me, I want you to think really long and hard about the answer. What can our money do more than paper over?"
Laurence squints and takes time to come up with a satisfactory answer, "Our ugliness. But that isn't the question. It's about finding the right people to help put us together differently. We're Kindred- we can't just walk into some fancy plastic surgeon's office and demand a full facial reconstruction."
Otto chuckles, "You're right, absolutely right, my friend. We can't just waltz in. But that's beside the point which I'm trying to make. Money...can buy the beauty which we lack. It can buy us a hell lot more than that, too, but we're getting off track. It's not about buying what we want but about buying what we need."
"We've managed so far. Hell, you're almost reaching the Ancilla mark. And you got by just fine without having any procedures done. Or--or have you?"
"No, I have not. But it's possible. Just look at...her. Look how she got away from us. You know who I'm talking about, right? She thinks that she's all high and mighty. Bitch wants nothing to do with her own Blood, then that's her problem. Don't come crawling to me when the SI is breaking in the door and asking for your head, because I'm not gonna do a single fucking thing."
Laurence puts in, "And I ain't lifting a finger for her. She really thinks that she's better than us. But she's really beautiful. Hard to actually believe- at times- that she is one of us, isn't it? Well, she is. And if there's anything that's worth all the time, effort, and money, it's that."
Otto snorts, "Mm-hmm. Funny thing is...I've recently come across the contact information of some very talented Tzimisce chirurgeons. Top of their field and they have a specialty in Nossie beautification. I don't know if they're the same people who sewed that bitch up, nor do I care. But if they can fix my face and body, they can certainly do the same for you."
Laurence clasps his hands together and asks the most obvious question, "How much is it?"
"Tch. It's not the money that you should be worried about- both of us could easily afford it ten times over. No, it's what they ask of you in return that's the concern."
"And what's that?"
Otto raises his chin, "Secrets. Those fucking half-aliens want what we've amassed over the long nights. I have...a decent chunk to trade. But even that's not enough for them."
Laurence nods, "And then there's the fact that we'd be telling who-knows-what to a bunch of Tzimisce. Have you even vetted these people? Background checks--"
"I am far from a goddamn amateur at this. All I know is that they're beyond Sects- they have no interest in the bickering. They're not Inconnu, Autarkis, Unbound, or Independent, either. And believe me, I checked. They're just a bunch of freelancers offering their...Flesh-Shaping services to certain Kindred- needy or otherwise."
The Nossie Whip remarks, "Sounds shady. Can't believe I'm saying this, but...do you know how I can get in touch with them?"
Otto snickers, "Not even two decades into this and you've already grown tired of your mug, huh? Hey, I don't blame you. What do I get out of this? What, did you really think that I'd just hand such delicate information over for free? That's just plain insulting."
Laurence sighs deeply, "What do you want in return? My--my Childe says he's got something, but it's either shit that you already know or something that doesn't mean a thing. Hell, for all I know, it could be redundant and you know it already!"
Otto smiles widely, "I could! And how is that Childe of yours, anyway?"
"Fine. We don't talk much- a part of him resents me for Embracing him into this...mess. But he's fine. He has self-preservation instincts. We just aren't on the same page about certain things."
Otto shifts his weight around, "Yeah, reminds me of some of my Childer- the ones who made it past a week, anyway. Fuck all of them, honestly. I only keep tabs on them out of...spite, I guess. That's usually the dynamic between Sire and Childe in our Clan- spite, resentment, and the like. It's just how it is."
Laurence mumbles, "And fear, too. Now, what do want in return for the information I need?"
Otto leans forward, "I want access to your Childe's secrets. If not yours, then his will have to do."
"Why? As it stands, you already know too much."
"You're right. I do. But it's not enough. It's NEVER enough! Sure, I have secrets in all of my goddamn pockets- not just the back ones, heh. Hell, I have this state's fucking District Attorney by the balls."
Laurence, who is visibly impressed by the comment, asks, "And how did you manage to pull that off?"
Otto plainly answers, "I used that Asian PI chick- she's got a knack for uncovering affairs. Great Yelp reviews, too. Once I had the information on my lap, the rest was as easy as apple pie. Now, if your Childe has some other juicy info on the side, then you should be more than happy to give me his."
Laurence shakes his head, "I don't know if he'd willingly give it to me, Otto. We aren't on speaking terms. And he's been avoiding me lately, hanging around with those new Banu Haqim--"
Otto corrects him, "Bnei HaShem. Let's have a little respect for our neighbors, huh? But, yeah, you're right- that's something I've heard, too. Hey, he may be your Childe, but he's gotta take the training wheels off and figure out his own way forward. I mean, it's been what, a few years since you Embraced him?"
"Something like that. And if I were to get you something good..."
"Yes, yes, I'll put you in-touch with those Stokers and you can work out some kind of a plan to look all...regular again. But I'm still trying to figure out which of my secretive secrets to part with. I mean, a few of them are really juicy! I even have fucking pictures of how juicy they are! And I'm talking top-fucking-quality ones. High-def."
The other Nosferatu nods, "OK..."
The Nossie Primogen proudly states, "You know, a good chunk of my repository of secrets wouldn't have been possible without that Private Investigator. She's quite good at following people around with her DSLR camera, hiding in bushes, and taking pictures of them at their most vulnerable and weakest moment. Or their most pathetic ones, hahaha!"
Laurence lowers his head, "I know who you're talking about. But she mostly does affairs, doesn't she?"
"Yep. But that alone is enough to have some really powerful and influential people wrapped around your leprous pinky finger, heh."
"Is she a threat to the Masquerade?"
"Nah. Lena...Adams is good at what she does. She's our asset and she doesn't even know it. I mean, there are a lot of people who unwittingly do our bidding in this city. It's better that way. That distance gives us ironclad deniability and all of that jazz. Plus, we have the Council of Nine Eyes on our side."
Laurence isn't so sure, "Are we sure? Because I do feel that Cedric, Rosalind, and Marshall are still a bit iffy about us. Not like it matters, either way, but--hey, if we had someone deeper in the Council, maybe we can set them up to be a mole or something for us?"
Otto remarks, "Ballsy. Risky. But I kinda like where this is going. OK, OK, you've got me captivated. Any candidates? We need someone malleable. But we also need someone who isn't too young- so Fledglings are off the table. Anyone else?"
"I'm thinking along the lines of the Jew. Amos Greenberg. We're already pretty tight with him."
"Oh, him. Yeah, I...don't know. After he and Dr. George Fateh had their heated argument, I'm not so sure about the guy anymore. He's got a chip on his shoulder, and I don't need another potential loose cannon running around, screwing things up in this Domain for the rest of us."
Otto leans closer and intently stares at his guest, "You do know the kind of trouble that loose cannons tend to invite, right? Now, are we good? I've given you a lot to chew on. Or so I hope."
The Whip offers, "What about that Toreador? She seems like a perfect fit for this kinda thing. She isn't exactly tight with the Salubri, but she knows how they operate. I'd say that's the only plus side about her."
Otto groans, "Oh, great. Her. And yet...that doesn't seem like half a bad idea. Then again, why knock it? I mean, Cedric, Rosalind, and Marshall have been good to our Clan. Do we really wanna risk that by putting a mole among them?"
Laurence replies, "I'm not saying we should go all out on that, but I'd say it's something to consider for the future- there's no telling how long that wide berth is gonna last for. And if we gotta use that Toreador to our advantage, then so be it."
Otto shrugs, "Eh, I'll think about it. But I'd sooner walk out into the sun with a cactus rammed up my ass than get that ditzy Toreador Elder wrapped up in all our schemes and shit. I know her type. She'll try to play it nice and pretend that she's not a bloodsucker, but she's a fucking shark, Laurence."
"Is she, though? Really? She seems kinda sweet."
"You do not know her as well as I do. Trust me when I say that she has waaaaay more tricks up her sleeve than either of us could ever imagine. Now, go on. Get outta here. My duties as a sommelier summon me. I got a few late-night guests to meet and entertain."
Laurence chuckles and queries, "The breathing variety?"
"The breathing AND moneyed variety. They wanted a tour of the vineyard, maybe some grape-stomping under the moon, and some good conversation."
"And do you deliver?"
Otto merely shrugs and maintains something resembling a smug look as way of a reply.
Laurence stands up with a grunt and hobbles towards the exit. He stops in his tracks and asks, "If I were to get you something good, how do we decide on a fair price?"
"Fair is subjective. Always has been with the Clan of the Hidden. Swing by sometimes and I'll give you a tour of the vineyard. And maybe I'll look like a really pretty lady while doing it. Who knows? Heh-heh."
The vineyard behind Otto's Haven is expansive, sprawling, and has an assortment of grapevines lining its many walls and paths. Exploited laborers from deprived nations are brought in and forced to work their asses off, growing grapes, tending to the land, and even being coerced into giving up a few pints of their blood as part of their employment contract.
They do not have much say in the matter. If anyone raises objections, Otto's crooked fangs and chipped claws make quick (albeit very messy) work of silencing them.
Permanently.
And then he has his vast network take care of erasing the poor victim from existence. And they do a disturbingly thorough job of removing all traces of the unfortunate person- both online and offline.
The grounds are kept immaculate. Even at this ungodly hour of the night, workers (borderline slaves) are seen picking grapes from the vines, filling baskets with ripe fruits, and carting the said produce over to the winery's silo.
But Otto and his people always make sure to "clean up" and present some sort of legitimate (totally non-coercive/non-exploitative) business operation when mortals (or Kindred with something resembling a conscience) show up.
After all, a "good reputation" is priceless, especially in the pretentious wine business! And Otto's rep, officially, is sparkling like a diamond.
All part and parcel of the way things are. The Nosferatu Primogen hardly came up with these twisted ideas himself; he's just fulfilling the only logical endpoint of a capitalist system in protracted decline- maximizing profit no matter what.
"Money talks," Otto tells himself while watching Laurence's car roll out of the driveway, its beaming headlights casting a faint glow onto the ground.
In time, the two Nosferatu will find a way to strike a deal. Or they might end up in a deadlock. But both of them hope to get what they want, which isn't necessarily a handsome face.
It's secrets. Always has been. Their Compulsion of Cryptophilia is as strong as their Hunger for blood- it consumes them. And they don't quite like sharing the hush-hush whispers and what have you.
Otto, for his part, has unearthed a ton of secrets in his relatively long Unlife. Some of that, of course, is best left buried. And Laurence Lancaster's secrets are just as intriguing, if not more so. As are the secrets possessed by Mr. Lancaster's Childe.
And how much of it is Lena unwittingly tangled up in?
Speaking of...
The gumshoe is fast asleep. She's got a date tomorrow- Elise made herself free and wants to meet for dinner. A great way to cap off a week that has indubitably been tiring, long, and rather stressful.
But hey, a girl's gotta eat. Especially in a city where the prices have slowly been increasing- the wages have utterly failed to keep pace with the rising cost of living.
Chapter Three: Sun's Out, Buns Out!
Well...not literally, of course. That's asking for a public indecency charge to be slapped onto those bare...buns. But there are a few known nudist colonies in this city. The hot sun beams down, and it's a warm day out!
This is slowly shaping up to be a beautiful Sunday morning. The sun casts its golden-orange glow over Magnolia City. The sky above is light blue, dotted here and there with a few puffy clouds. People go about their daily routines in relative contentment, with only the odd honking of horns being heard every now and then.
This is the one day which Lena doesn't have to wake up early. She relaxes on her bed, and her hair is as messy and tangled as ever. She blinks the sleep away from her eyes, rubs the crusty crust out, and groans as she forces herself up into an upright position.
The PI reaches out for her nightstand and snatches her touchscreen phone. She unlocks it and immediately taps on the FemmeConnect icon.
The most recent message from Elise reads: "Goodnight. I'll be seeing you tomorrow. I genuinely do look forward to it. Don't be late, but I'll understand if something unavoidable happens."
Lena bites her lower lip and types back: "And a good morning to you. Still no profile picture? Anyways, you seem like a decent match. Can't wait to see you. Decided on the venue yet?"
After a few minutes, Elise comes online and responds: "Oh, good. I'm glad you decided to meet up with me. There's this nice Italian restaurant near where I currently reside. You're not allergic or anything, right?"
"Nope. Italian sounds great. And what time are we looking at?"
"Seven?"
Lena's smile is replaced with an unenthused pout. That's a lot earlier than she would've preferred to meet up with a potential date: "Sounds a bit earlier than usual, doesn't it?"
Elise replies: "Well, yes. But I have work tomorrow. And I absolutely loathe Mondays, as I'm sure you do. Seven-thirty?"
"Yeah, that sounds great. Send me the address of this place and I'll see you there. Bye."
Elise replies: "Ciao." She follows it up with a few heart emojis.
Lena snickers and puts her phone back on charge. After that, she shuffles out of bed and heads to the bathroom.
After freshening up and doing her morning routine, the PI opens the closet and fishes out her usual outfit- a pair of faded slacks, a random button-down shirt, and a duffel coat to go over the whole ensemble.
Makeup is light and minimal- after all, the fun starts in the evening and Miss Adams intends to look absolutely gorgeous for tonight! For now, she ties her jet-black hair into a topknot ponytail, applies some sunscreen to her skin, and makes herself ready to start the day.
After putting on some red lipstick, she heads to the kitchen to put a small meal together. The coffeemaker hums as Lena chops some fruits and drops them into a bowl. A mug is quickly placed under the spigot, and the delicious, bitter drink is poured into it.
Lena peels a banana and adeptly chops it into pieces before adding it into the bowl with her other fruits- strawberries, kiwis, and blueberries. She makes ANOTHER cup of coffee and gets ready to dig in!
Nom, nom, nom, nom, nom. Slurp, slurp.
Lena puts the dishes away and stretches herself out with a groan, her muscles and joints popping and cracking. It's going to be a long, busy, and eventful day for the PI- and it's not just because of the amount of work that awaits her.
Today, she intends to visit the scene of the crime; the place where Tyler Woodward was run over and left to die. She wants to try and retrace his steps, see how he got there, and how the vehicle in question was able to hit him and speed off without anybody seeing a single thing.
It is slowly shaping up to be a puzzling case. She calls the father of the deceased child and asks him to meet her at her office so they can formally draw up a contract, finalize the details, and then be on their way.
It'll be a long and sunny day.
Many ships dock at the city's numerous ports, their hulls gleaming in the sun's golden light. Cargo is either loaded or unloaded, workers sweat and haul, and security guards patrol the vast warehouses, giving a threatening stare to any strangers that attempt to approach the premises.
A while later...
Drawing up the contract, going through the formalities, and ensuring that both parties are in agreement was easy enough. Jake, for his part, brought a friend of the family along to ensure that this would be a fair and legal exchange.
In time, Lena Adams finds herself standing near a sidewalk. The area around her is quite deserted- most of the shops and businesses look like they've been boarded up for years on end. The few homeless tents nearby look recent and are devoid of any and all human activity.
But there are a few possessions strewn about. An unhoused person snores loudly while a cardboard cutout next to them reads: "WILL WORK 4 FOOD. 2 jobs not nearly enough. 3rd one would be 'preciated."
"Well, well, well, well, well...look who it is," a man's voice calls out. An all-too-fucking-familiar one, at that.
Without even turning to see who it is, Lena sneers, "Graham Parsons."
He struts over to her and corrects her, "It's Head Detective Graham Parsons to you."
Head Detective Graham Parsons is in his thirties, has a clean-shaven face, fair skin, square jaw, gray eyes, combed brown hair, and a relatively lean build. He's on the taller side and wears a light-beige suit with a blue dress shirt and a dark blue tie. A golden badge hangs from his belt and shines in the sun.
And he stands up straighter and subtly reveals the holstered gun on his left hip. His aviators sit perched atop his head.
Lena isn't impressed (not even in the slightest), "What are you doing here, huh?"
"I'd ask you the same question. This doesn't seem like your usual hangout spot."
Lena almost growls, "I'm not here to hang out--" She stops herself from saying more. This fucking guy always has a way of getting under her skin!
The Head Detective of the MCPD chuckles and paces around her, "Don't tell me that you're working a case. On a Sunday, no less! That's impressive. And here I thought you'd be lazing around in your PJs or reconsidering all of your shitty life choices."
Lena doesn't fall for his bait. She takes a deep breath, "I'm not here for you, asshole."
"Oh. And why are you here then?"
She claps back, "None of your business. Why are YOU here?"
He shrugs, "Eh, checking on a lead. We're working on something with narcotics."
Lena ignores him and walks away, "I don't care."
Head Detective Graham catches up to her and steps right in her way. His voice is low and gravelly, "So, what are you working on? C'mon, you can tell me."
Lena glowers at him, "Like I'd ever tell a creep like you a fucking thing. Step aside. Now."
He places his hands on his hips and raises his chin defiantly, "You don't get to tell an officer of the law what he can and cannot do, missy."
The PI takes a small step back, "Don't call me that."
He leans closer to look her square in the eyes, "I asked you a question, you almond-eyed dyke, what are you working on? What are you working on? What business do you have here?"
Lena gulps and takes yet another step backwards, "F--fuck off. It's none of your concern. Just go away already."
Head Detective Graham mocks her, "Aww. What are you gonna do? Call the police? Bitch, I am the police. Go on, resist arrest, you little chink."
Lena tries to move past him, "I'm not gonna fall for your cheap tricks."
He spreads both of his hands to either side of his body and blocks her path again, "Oh, really? Because it looks like you're getting all flustered. All hot and bothered from the simple questions that I'm askin' you. What the hell are you doing here?"
Lena sighs, "Investigating. There? Happy, now move!" It comes out a lot more forceful than she'd hoped it would.
"Investigating what?"
"..."
Head Detective Graham sharply exhales and mimes fanning himself with his hand, "The sun has really fried that pretty little ching-chong brain of yours, hasn't it? Whatchu investigating, my biatch?"
He leans closer to her and creepily whispers, "Asian Baby Girl. You an ABG, by any chance? Have you ever run with them? Hmm? I arrested a lotta ABGs in my beat cop days. Slapped cuffs on those petite wrists and dragged 'em down to the station. The looks on their pretty little faces when they got booked..."
Lena steadies herself and answers, "I'm investigating a--a murder."
Head Detective Graham's eyebrows shoot up, "Huh the only 'murder' that happened here was...oh, wait. That? That yeehaw teenage kid who got pancaked? Shit. Lemme guess, that halfwit trucker hired you? Am I right?"
Lena shakes her head, "That's between me and the client, Graham. Now, step aside and lemme work!"
He smiles and moves out of the way, even going so far as to elaborately usher her with his hand.
Lena stops herself from giving him the finger, "Hmph. Since you're lurking here, I might as well ask you a few questions. As nauseating as that sounds, I guess."
He looks away and mumbles, "Eh, fine. Shoot."
"Why aren't you people looking more into this?"
Head Detective Graham shrugs, "What's there to look into? Kid was from the Deep South. Yeehaw hillbillies who probably don't even know what a paved road and looking both ways before crossing is."
Lena grits her teeth and retorts, "He had a three-digit IQ. He was not some stereotype. Tyler Woodward was a child who had his whole life ahead of him, and he was cruelly robbed of the chance to live it."
Head Detective Graham paces back and forth, "Three-digit IQ, huh? Funny. His dad and mom said the same thing, too. We came, did what we had to do, and scurried off. No leads to go by and nothing to be done about it."
Lena almost goes off on him, "So...you just throw your hands high up in the air and gave up. How very typical. Dare I ask if you people even bothered tracing the tire tracks of the vehicle that hit the victim?"
Head Detective Graham callously answers, "Yokels get him all the time, Miss Akira. And if you squint harder...haha, then you might see that there are literally no cameras for miles on end."
To reinforce his point, he does a broad, encompassing gesture, "See? No googly eyes in the sky for us to check out. Nada. Zilch. Zero. Whoever did it is...gone. Gone with the wind, heh."
Lena's face contorts with indignation and frustration, "You disgust me."
Head Detective Graham opens himself up to a punch from her. He steps closer, spreads his arms wide, and taunts her with a fiendish smile, "Go on. Fuck me up, you crazy Jap. Find out what happens when you touch Magnolia City's finest."
(Graham Parsons keeps taunting and insulting Lena to get her to hit him so he can arrest her; he is looking for ANY reason to slap those cuffs on her).
But Lena is not about to give him the satisfaction of a brawl, especially considering that he's armed and has a nasty way of escalating the situation.
Instead, she maintains a guarded expression and tells him, "I know all about you. I know enough to know that you're just another asshole. A dime a dozen. Racist, homophobic, sexist, and downright awful. A living embodiment of the worst of America wrapped up in a crappy beige suit and more issues than a person can possibly imagine."
Head Detective Graham's face tics, "Oh, you do, huh? This isn't over, you hear me? One day, I will get my arrest you, you little slant-eyed--"
"Not falling for it. Not again. Not ever. Now, if you'll excuse me..." Lena rolls her eyes, groans, and walks the hell away from this despicable creature.
She can hear him grumbling and mumbling a bunch of unflattering things under his breath. She tunes a majority of it out and thinks to herself, "Fucking Nazi prick."
(She's not being hyperbolic in calling him that. Head Detective Graham Parsons of the MCPD is a literal Nazi. And Lena had a small part in exposing him and the numerous other Nazis in the MCPD- of course, none of them know that for reasons that are plainly obvious).
The Head Detective kicks that unhoused person and rudely asks, "Hey! Junkie! There's some new candy on the loose. It's black powder- that's how it looks. Did you ever snort that shit?"
The homeless person is clearly not in the best of states. They groan and murmur something incomprehensible.
Lena overhears this and wonders, "Black...powder? The fuck is HE on? And what are his other Nazi buddies at the MCPD up to? Black powder? What, like, ashes?"
As it is, the Head Detective is officially under investigation. But trusting the cops to investigate themselves is like trusting an arsonist to stop another arsonist from burning a building to the ground.
The MCPD's PR department gave out lofty, mealy-mouthed denunciations of all forms of extremism and bigotry within the ranks, but it doesn't look like their actions will follow suit.
Lena surveys the area where poor Tyler was hit and left to die. The pavement is as scorched by the rays of the sun. There are way too many tire tracks and the ones that belonged to the vehicle that hit Ty have definitely been wiped out.
The rest look relatively recent- they probably belonged to a passing car, truck, or camper van. Nobody would've seen anything during those fateful minutes.
Lena clicks her tongue out of frustration. She grimaces when Head Detective Graham shakes the homeless person and continuously pesters them for information pertaining to what seems to be some kinda new drug that has hit the streets.
He grunts, "It's like gunpowder! HEY! Answer me! Why do you think people are buying it?!"
Lena blows a raspberry and does some more snooping around, but nothing really stands out. Nothing at all. If she intends to solve this case, then other avenues will have to be explored.
Her gut instinct tells her that the person who ran Tyler down wasn't a relative, a teacher, or another student from his school- besides, most of the kids at his school weren't old enough to drive, despite how smart they are.
For now, Lena heads back to her PI office, shuts the door, and plops onto the chair. She throws her head back and stares at the ceiling for a few minutes. Her mind swirls with thoughts and questions about the case.
After guzzling a cup of coffee which she bought on the way here, she sets the paper cup aside and tunes out the Nazi cop and the many threats that he's made to her over the years.
She blinks repeatedly, rubs her temples, and starts to go over the files that were sent over to her. Even though she had already done that, she wants to do it again, hoping that the recent infusion of caffeine will help her pick up on something that she may've missed earlier.
This drags on way past lunchtime. By the time it's four o'clock, Lena trills her lips, grabs her stuff, locks up, and prepares to head back home for a quick bite to eat. In typical Lena Adams fashion, she grabs a cuppa joe on the way back home.
She steps into the train, and it begins its crawl to the next destination. While drinking her coffee, her other hand holds her phone. She scrolls through some random stuff and barely pays it any mind.
Her amber eyes flit over to a lad in office attire. The frustration on his freckled face is obvious- he's rapidly typing on his laptop and sweating buckets.
Lena officially doesn't have any work on Sundays, but a clause in her contract does clearly and unambiguously specify that an employee of Pluto Enterprises should be available in case they're needed to come in for whatever.
Moreover, PE employees are encouraged to work overtime. Subtly...encouraged. Incentives are non-monetary and usually involve tickets to games and concerts, coupons to restaurants with questionable health ratings, and a whole bunch of other "perks".
Lena's phone rings. It's her mother. She sets the cup of coffee aside and answers it, "Mom?"
Susie sounds worried, "Hello? Honey? Are you OK?"
Lena's brows knit together, "Uh...yeah? Are you? What about dad, how is he?"
"Yoshi's doing...great, sweetie. You don't have to worry about us. I just wanted to call to check up on you. Are you sure you're alright?"
"Yeah, I--I'm fine. Seriously."
Susie then asks, "Any plans for your Sunday night? Please tell me that you're not working a case. On a Sunday...you need to rest and relax. There's only so much that you can do without proper sleep."
Lena looks around and says, "I have a date tonight."
Susie's smile broadens, "Ah. That's nice. I'm happy for you. Is she nice? Is she pretty? How long have you been seeing her? Is it serious?"
"Mom. Easy. She's twenty years older to me, but I feel a--a connection. I think. We're meeting for the first time tonight, so I still dunno how serious it'll be. And yeah, she's really pretty."
Susie reminds her daughter, "Please be c--careful out there. Are you going for dinner? Make sure you're both in a public place that's well-lit--"
"Mom. I've done this plenty of times before, y'know? It's Magnolia City; I'll be fine. I can handle myself."
Susie chuckles faintly, "I know you can. But please be careful. I don't want you becoming a--a victim of some heinous hate crime, OK?"
"Sure. Yeah. I get it."
"Good. Your dad is...resting. He's not doing so great. He really wants to talk, but he doesn't really have the energy to do much except sit on his favorite chair and watch the world go by from our porch. Please come visit soon, honey. I--I don't know how much time--"
Lena clicks her tongue and interjects, "Mom! D--don't say that! Look, if it's about the money for the medical expenses, then I am absolutely willing to send some more, as much as it takes!"
Susie sighs softly, "And leave you penniless? Look, I'm not dumb, OK? Prices have skyrocketed. And I know how much rent you're paying, sweetie. Please, don't worry about me and Yoshi. I can take care of my husband just fine. I--I know what I'm doing." Her tone belies her statement and is colored with hints of concern.
Lena isn't about to argue with her mother, "Hm. Fine, i--if you say so. But I am still gonna send some over. I don't care if it hurts me in the long run or whatever, this is important! I have the money, and you need it!"
Susie changes the subject, "Have you spoken to your brother recently?"
"Yeah, Roland and I text from time to time. He's...still in Japan, right?"
Susie nods, "Mm-hmm. He sent some money over, too. But the treatments are costing a lot more than I anticipated ever since we switched providers. It's all a huge mess, sweetie. Anyway, I don't--I don't wanna do this to you. Go. Enjoy your date, be safe, and if you suspect something's wrong...walk away. Don't hesitate."
Lena slowly nods, "I know, mom. I know. Tell dad I--I'm thinking about him and that I said...'hi'."
"I'll do that, honey."
Lean takes a sip of her coffee and inquires, "How's work?"
Susie sucks some air through her teeth, "I got a bit of a bad back, but painkillers exist for a reason. Heh. Look, don't worry about us. Live your life."
Lena suggests, "Mom, you should really find something better than working at Walmart, doing all that heavy lifting, standing around for hours on end. At your age--"
Susie interrupts, "Oh, come on. Yeah, heh, at my age. Well, I'm quote-unquote 'too damn old' for my old job, so there ya go. Walmart was hiring and the pay seemed promising. And I kinda need the medical insurance, too."
Lena groans disdainfully, "Ugh. Don't remind me. Mom, c'mon, find something...better. Something not taxing. I can hear it in your voice- you sound tired. You sound exhausted."
Susie reassures her daughter, "It's fine. It's just been a long week, that's all. Don't read too much into it."
The train's interior lights flicker for a few moments. Gasps and other various worried noises fill the air. A woman in a blue-green business suit whispers something to her partner- a rather dashingly handsome man with a cravat- and holds onto the railings tightly as the train chugs along.
Lena rolls her eyes, "Promise me that you'll at least LOOK into getting something better. I'm sure there's stuff out there for...people your age."
Susie stifles a sigh, "Now, that's just condescending. I'd have you know that before I squeezed you and Roland out of my hoohaa, I was a runner..."
"Mom...that's hardly the point. Look, how about this: I find some job openings and send the links to you, hmm? I'll uh...make sure to look for ones with health benefits and um...other perks, too."
"You really don't have to, sweetie. I'll figure something out. Trust me. Don't you have to get ready for your date, right? Wouldn't wanna be late, heh. What time are you meeting her, anyway?"
Lena flatly answers, "Seven-thirty."
Susie exclaims, "Wow! An early dinner! Treat her well and ensure that she treats you respectfully. And if she's the least bit rude, you have my full permission to flip her off and walk away with your chin held high! Hahahaha!"
Lena faintly chuckles along, "Mom...yeah, sure. Don't worry. And please, give dad my love, OK?"
Susie smiles, "Sure thing. Have fun tonight. And who knows, maybe she might be the one, hmm?"
Lena wistfully replies, "I hope so. Take care. B--bye."
The call ends and the PI slumps back into her seat. She downs the remainder of her coffee and waits for the next stop. By the time she reaches home, she flops down onto her bed and is out like a light.
She wakes up later and sees the clock on her nightstand. Five thirty-five PM. Eh, she's got enough time to make herself look sexy for tonight's date. She sleeps for ten more minutes.
And that dream of her being cast down into an endless ocean haunts her. Yet, no drowning sensation ever follows. Lena slowly opens her eyes and yawns. She groggily shuffles herself out of bed and starts to ready herself.
She gussies up in front of the mirror, slips out of her clothes, and stands under the shower. The warm water from the nozzles soaks her naked body. Lena rubs some bodywash over herself- she likes to make sure that she's nice and clean before going on any dates.
The PI even washes her hair with some apricot-flavored shampoo. Her minty conditioner does its thing, too. While the water cascades down, she lowers her head and places her palms against the tiled walls of the bathroom.
The shower's water pummels her back, and the air around her is filled with a bit of steam. She remains like that for a few moments, heaving and shaking with the occasional sob.
Lena closes her eyes, takes a deep breath, and wipes her tears away. She looks up at the showerhead and gets a face full of water for her troubles. The air around her is a tad misty, the droplets are getting colder, and she hates how vulnerable, weak, and hopelessly powerless she currently feels.
Once that's all done, she wraps a towel around her waist and gets to picking an outfit from her closet. Something tasteful will have to do, so she opts for a cocktail dress she found at a thrift shop. It's dark blue and goes a few inches below her knees.
Lena takes off her towel and ensures that her pubes are shaved off. If someone's gonna be eating her pussy tonight, she doesn't wanna leave a lot of hair for that other lucky lady to deal with.
Just to be sure, Lena grabs her rechargeable shaver and runs it over her nether regions. A bit of pubic hair comes off, now all that's left is to put on some deodorant, paint her nails, do her makeup, and fix her hair.
Miss Adams slips into the dress with relative ease. Next, she sits down in front of the mirror and gets to work. The only question that remains is- what lipstick to wear?
She eventually elects to go for a dark, seductive shade of purple. Her eyeliner is light and she even dabs some jasmine-scented perfume on herself. She applies a bit of foundation, some blush, and paints her nails.
Once that's done, she waits for her teal nail polish to dry before getting to her hair. She runs her fingers through it and quickly plaits it into two thick, fishtail braids.
Lena grimaces at her reflection and undoes the braids. With some bobby pins and a ponytail holder, she gets to work and ends up with a somewhat decent looking topknot.
She side-eyes herself and pushes asides some loose strands of hair that come free. After looking at herself and firmly nodding, she sends a few heart emojis to Elise and waits for a response.
Elise responds with twice as many heart emojis!!
Lena chuckles: "I'm all ready and set. Are you?"
Elise replies: "Beauty takes time, love. I'll see you when I see you. I do very much look forward to meeting you, Lena. It's been a while since I've done this."
Lena's eyebrows go up a little, "Huh. That's surprising. Oh, well...nothing much to do but sit around and wait. I'll text Yvonne...and ask her how I look."
The PI stands in front of her mirror, aims her smartphone camera at her reflection, and snaps a few pictures of herself. She saves it to the gallery and sends them off to Yvonne.
Mucho later...
This restaurant has a contemporary design and is located by a canal. Low and soft lighting bathes the interior of this establishment's two floors, one of which is a mezzanine-type balcony. Soft music drones in the background, but it's not so awfully loud that one can't hear oneself thinking.
It looks like it has been recently renovated, too. Shiny and sleek fixtures, pristinely polished floors, and a wide array of paintings of Italy, abstract murals, and assorted wall hangings give the place a warm, welcoming feel.
On the way here, Lena did some Googling and found out that this yum-yum joint used to be known as "Sorriso di Napoli (ITA: Smile of Naples)".
Recently, however, they've undergone a complete rebranding- and a name change was very much part and parcel of it. Now, they go by something (allegedly) deemed contemporary.
Lena squints at the bright neon blue sign on and reads it out, "Ristorante Cielo Blu (ITA: Cielo Blu Restaurant)"
She can see a few people eating and chatting in the vicinity. The kitchens must be way in the back, because no food smells get to her nostrils.
The sky above is darkening. Unbeknownst to a mere breathing, warm-bodied mortal like Lena, the creatures of the night have already awoken from their day-long slumbering. They stalk the city, seeking blood. And some are Hungrier than others.
A lot Hungrier.
Anyways, the mortal PI smooths out any wrinkles in her dress and enters the restaurant with her chin held high. She looks around and is quite impressed by the decor.
She asks for a table for two in a cozier spot and is escorted by a waitress to the balcony. This is a lovely place, really. A chair is pulled out for her and the waitress in a sharp red uniform greets her with a warm smile, "Good evening, welcome to Cielo Blu!"
Lena smiles back, "Hi. I'm still waiting on someone. My date should be here soon."
The waitress nods and returns with two menu booklets. Lena flips hers open and begins idly looking through the extensive list of food options.
There's everything from salads to pasta to risotto and much more. While perusing the menu, her phone vibrates. It's from Elise- she's here and waiting downstairs!
Well, this is it!
Butterflies begin swirling and fluttering around in the depths of Lena's stomach. She gets up and spots who she thinks is Elise from the vantage point of the balcony. Her jaw hits the floor. She grabs on to the shiny railing and leans over to get a better look.
Miss Adams is stunned. In the good sort of way!
Elise looks to be in her forties. She's got long, sturdy, and elegant legs. Her skin is fair and her blonde hair is pulled back. A warm smile graces her angular face, and her amber eyes (much like Lena's!) are alive with warmth and affection.
A long dress with a low cut accentuates her figure. The sequins of her dress twinkle in the soft light, and the fabric is a deep shade of wine red. Her makeup is immaculately applied.
A silver necklace and a pair of hoop earrings top off her ensemble.
Lena is already making her way down. She readies her phone, opens the FemmeConnect app, and approaches the gorgeous lady standing in the entryway. She clears her throat, "Hello, uh..."
Elise gently waves and follows it up with a smile. She, too, pulls out her phone and opens the same app.
Lena begins, "The code is...six-three-one-one-four-two."
Elise taps on her screen and gives the PI a once-over, "Right. Oh, right, right. Sorry. Mine is two-two-two-one-seven-nine."
Elise's accent has just the hint of Britishness to it. Just a hint, barely noticeable. She looks a tad flustered around the edges, but otherwise, she looks professional and put-together.
The whole purpose of exchanging that six-digit code was so the pair can prove that they are, indeed, who they say they are. A safety measure for reasons that needn't be stated out loud.
After the FemmeConnect app has verified the pair's identities, Elise offers her hand, "Good evening, Lena. You look...pretty. Have you found a table?"
"Is the balcony OK with you?"
"Yes. After you." Elise is so gentle and soft-spoken. And her voice sounds just like silk and honey.
The duo makes their way to the same table and take their respective seats across from each other.
Lena starts off by saying, "I've never been here before."
Elise responds, "Neither have I. Shall we order? It's quite warm outside, but a meal will be just the thing for the two of us. And...err...I take it that we'll be splitting the bill?"
Lena shrugs, "Sure. Is that fine with you?"
"Peachy."
Off to a great start. Lena feels a twinge of nervousness and clenches her fist to keep herself from sweating. Even Elise blushes and awkwardly chuckles as a sort of way to ease the tension.
Lena asks, "You're not from the States, are you?"
Elise tucks a lock of hair behind her ear, "On the contrary. And your bio mentioned that you're Japanese American, but I take it that you were born and raised in the States?"
"Yeah. Second gen. Japanese on my father's side."
Elise takes a demure sip of water, her lipstick staining the rim of her glass, "I see. Please, go on. I'm quite interested in learning more about you...Lena. Lovely name, by the way."
A faint smile spreads across Lena's lips, "Well, let's see. I graduated from Indiana State University with a general BA degree- not much to it really. I'm still paying off my student loan debts, heh. Once I graduated, I got recruited by Pluto Enterprises. I started off as an intern and, well...I'm still with them after all these years."
Elise places her chin atop her interlaced fingers, "That's lovely. As for me, well, I've been in the beauty industry all my life. Err...hair, nails, makeup, makeovers, that sort of thing. A decade ago, I used to live and work in Flimont City- not a very pleasant place, to put it kindly."
The PI mutters, "I can imagine."
Elise takes another small sip and nods, "Yes, yes. One has to have lived there to have seen its many horrors. But, well, I decided to uproot myself and move to Magnolia City after certain...shall we say, events occurred in Flimont City. I needed to get out of there. T--too many painful memories."
Elise's voice breaks, but she quickly gathers herself and puts on a brave face, "Magnolia City has its fair share of problems, of course, but it is also home to some of the most wonderful sights. And I don't have to worry about being run over by some maniac."
Lena concurs, "Yeah, the public transit here is great. A bit iffy these days, but I wouldn't exactly call it subpar. And how is the beauty industry these days?"
Elise shrugs a shoulder, "Eh. It's chugging on, I suppose. But the beauty standards are as rubbish as ever."
"Hah! Tell me about it! I hope I'm not um...prying, but you mentioned having some painful memories. What happened there?"
"I lost...people near and dear to me. People who mattered to me the most."
Lena's expression softens and she reaches forward and gently squeezes Elise's hand, "I'm so sorry."
Elise appreciates the kind gesture, "Yes. Thank you. My girlfriend, she was about your age- twenty-seven- when she was brutally murdered. And not long after, my father died of natural causes."
Lena winces sympathetically and gives Elise another squeeze, "Oh, that's awful! I'm so sorry. W--what happened?"
Elise takes a deep breath and explains, "'Exsanguination' isn't a word that you easily forget once you've heard it. That's what happened to...her. Not a day or a night goes by when I don't see her face in my dreams. I--I miss her very much. She was a wonderful woman."
Lena listens with bated breath.
Elise wipes the tear away and musters up a smile, "S--sorry, I shouldn't be doing this. Not on our first date. I'm very sorry, Lena."
"It's alright."
(Elise's partner was viciously drained by some random Lasombra Kindred and left to perish in a dark and shadowy alleyway.)
Elise stammers, "I--I couldn't stay there anymore. After my father died, I--I knew that my time in F-City was slowly drawing to a close, so I took a risk, looked around, asked some friends, and...I just couldn't spend another second in that damn place."
Lena ventures a guess, "Too much baggage?"
Elise echoes, "Too much baggage...and hurt...and sorrow. It was time to move on. And Magnolia City has been very welcoming so far. In my few years here, I've quite grown to appreciate it all- the sights, the spaces, the people. But it's not home. Not--not yet, anyway. I don't know if it'll ever be, but I can try."
Lena slowly exhales, "Yeah, I can relate. That feeling of not being sure if you truly belong or not. You're not alone, Elise. Not by a long shot."
The waitress approaches the duo and respectfully asks, "Hi there, ladies! Are you ready to make your orders?"
Lena and Elise reply in unison, "Yes." The two of them then give each other a quick smile.
Lena jerks her chin over to some random direction and asks, "I saw a guy in a wheelchair eating something. It looked kinda cool. Uh...do you remember whatever he was having?"
The waitress nods her head, "The mushroom risotto with a single slice of long garlic bread."
The gumshoe smirks, "I'll have what he's having, then."
Elise chuckles and says, "I myself am not much of a heavy eater- especially for dinner. At my age, you really have to watch what you eat, haha! Oh, sorry. Right, err...what's your soup of the day?"
"Tuscan White Bean Soup."
Elise mumbles something under her breath and tells the waitress that she'll go for the soup of the day.
The waitress bows her head and inquires, "And how about desserts? We have some fresh panna cottas."
Lena shakes her head, "Nah, I'm good? Elise?"
Elise inquires, "Me neither. What about a glass of white wine? Lena, would you like one? J--just the one, neither of us are here to get tipsy, haha!"
"Heh. Mm. Sure, sure. That sounds great."
After the waitress leaves, Lena and Elise resume their conversation. Soft jazz music emanates from the speakers. Somewhere in the background, a waiter is talking to another waiter about some football game that is being broadcasted.
After fifteen to twenty minutes, the fresh food arrives. Steam rises from the bowl of Elise's white bean soup, and a lovely, mushroom scent wafts up to Lena's nostrils.
Elise's eyes light up and she stares at Lena, "Shall we?"
"Let's!"
They dig in, their respective shiny utensils gently clashing with the porcelain bowls. The food is hot, and it's absolutely heavenly.
Elise takes a spoonful of soup, gently blows on it a few times, and brings it up to her lips. She relishes the tastes and flavors. The soup is rich and savory.
Lena's garlic bread is soft and chewy; her shroom risotto is perfectly balanced, well-made, and delicious.
Elise places her spoon aside and wipes the corners of her lips with a soft cloth napkin, "Tell me something interesting about yourself. A--a fun fact, if you will. Why don't you go first, hmm?"
Lena mulls over this and eventually starts, "Well, I guess, in terms of fun facts...through my father's side, I am sorta related to the late- and great- Japanese filmmaker, Akira Kurosawa."
Elise's eyebrows shoot up and she grins, "Oh! Wow! I think I've seen one of his movies before. Err, let me think..." She trails off and frowns deeply while also snapping her fingers as if she's trying to remember.
Lena takes a sip of her white wine and lets her date recall.
"Err...yeah! High and Low!"
"Yup. High and Low. 1963. I liked that. A lot. OK, now how about you tell me something fun and interesting about you."
Elise leans closer and softly chuckles, "I'm not quite sure how I can beat being related to a highly acclaimed film director, but back when I was still...in Flimont City, I came across a rather unusual customer who had the most unusual name; and even after a decade, I still haven't forgotten that night."
Lena picks up on a certain wistfulness in her date's voice, so she inquires, "Is it a happy memory or...?"
"It was a pleasant conversation," Elise replies. She stares off into the distance and sips on her glass of white wine. She holds the thin glass and swirls the pale liquid around.
"'Mauve Lilac' was her name," the blonde continues.
Lena cringes, "That's...the most ridiculous name I've ever heard. Wow. Was she, what, some kinda popstar or something?"
"Not quite. You see..."
And the remainder of the date goes by fairly well. By the time all is said and done, the two lovely lasses pay their respective portion of the bill- the soup was cheaper than the risotto.
Elise has an expectant look on her face when she stands up, "Would you like to take a walk? The canal outside should be lovely this time of night."
"Sure, why not."
Elise smiles widely and offers her arm to Lena. The two walk out of the restaurant and make their way down to the canal. Their shoes clack against the hard ground as they go over a small bridge that cuts through the canal.
The water in this particular part of the city is so clear and crisp. During the date, Elise talked quite a lot about her past in Flimont City; loathe as she may be to admit it, but it's clear that there's still a part of her stuck back over there.
Lena and Elise stand in a quiet spot by the canal. Some rowboats float along the dark waters, and a few people are taking selfies near the banks of the water. College types mill around, too.
Lena leans closer to her date and gazes into those amber eyes of hers, "So...I enjoyed myself. I really did."
Elise gazes back with a knowing intensity, "Likewise. I--I mean, as did I--" She abruptly stops talking and turns her head to the side. Her eyes linger on the dark waters below.
She pensively states, "I haven't done this...ever since losing her, Lena. For the first time in a very, very long time, I took the chance. We--we all have to move on some time, don't we?"
Lena plainly answers, "We all grieve in our own way. It takes time. You...deserve to be happy, Elise."
Elise gulps and turns to face the PI. She gently places her hand on top of Lena's, "Y--yes, I suppose so. Err...I do hope that I'm not overstepping b--boundaries, but would you like to come back to my place for some..."
Lena's heart begins to thump erratically in her chest and her palms become sweaty, "Y--yeah, sure. I'd love that. Where's your place, anyway?"
"Quite nearby," Elise suggestively answers as a knowing look makes its way across her features.
The pair start walking off. They hold hands. Tightly. Lena anticipates what's about to happen, as does Elise. The PI even catches glance of her date's cleavage and bites her lower lip, feeling a moist sensation in her nether regions.
Elise, for her part, loves the way Lena sneaks those looks at her bosom. She chuckles under her breath.
Lena's pulse is racing. She tightens her grip around Elise's hands, eliciting a small gasp from the blonde.
A few moments later, the two of them are heading up a small set of stairs leading to a single-story house in a quiet suburban neighborhood where the trees are all neatly trimmed, the hedges are manicured, and the lawns are well-maintained.
The streetlights cast a dim orange glow, and the cool air is filled with the cacophonous chirping of insects. A few barking dogs and meowing cats are heard in the not-so-far distance.
Elise's house is a modest single-story building, and it has a nice, cozy sort of aura to it.
The duo walks to the door, arm interlocked in arm. Lena feels her date's body heat, and the other woman's heart is pounding almost as hard as her own. Elise also feels a tingly sensation in her downstairs region- a familiar sensation that she hasn't felt in quite a long, long time.
Elise lets go of her date and fumbles for her housekeys. She titters and unlocks the door. Before she opens it, she turns to face Lena, "I--I should warn you, my house is a bit of a mess. Long hours at the salon, but it's magnitudes better than the prior one that I used to work at, let me tell you that much."
Lena looks around and notices a great deal of hanging planters which adorn the walls. Each planter contains a variety of plants- from the simple and the common to the rare and the exotic.
Elise comments, "Ah, yes. A small hobby of mine. It was either that or sleeping on the couch in front of soap operas, haha!"
"Heh, yeah, this is way better. I like it, it's nice and pretty."
Elise playfully replies, "I could say the same about you."
Lena blushes a little, "Oh, uh...thanks."
Elise pushes the door open and the two of them step inside. Lena stands aside and waits as Elise flips the light switch on. The interior of her home is, indeed, messy. There's a pile of formal clothing in a corner and a few boxes hastily stacked on top of each other.
A stack of old newspapers and magazines lies next to a rickety chair.
Elise nervously shifts from foot to foot. She walks over to the thermostat, fiddles with it, and does a sweeping gesture to her surroundings, "Err, so, this is it. Welcome, sorry for the mess. I--honestly, I wasn't expecting to bring anyone home with me tonight."
She winces and adds, "Contrary to what you see around here, I don't have much, and what I do have is, err...on the simple side. Like you correctly mentioned, things have shot up in price. Anyway, why don't you take a seat. I'll make you a cup of coffee. I'm personally not the hugest of fans; unlike you, haha!"
Lena nods and sits on the long, off-white couch. A wall-mounted flatscreen television is nearby. Her date fumbles for the remote and turns the TV on. She smiles nervously and scurries off into the kitchen to prep the coffee.
The sound of clinking cutlery and the rustling of boxes is audible. Lena gingerly reaches for the remote and turns the volume down. She takes a deep breath in and lets it all out in a long and steady exhale.
A few moments later, Elise returns with a steaming hot mug of coffee. She sets the tray down on her messy wooden coffee table and sits next to the PI.
Lena reaches for the mug of joe and says, "Thanks. I really love my coffee. Hell, it's come to a point where I simply can't live without it. Heh."
Elise gently strokes Lena's upper back, "Yes, I know. My goodness, you are so pretty."
Lena almost chokes on her coffee when those sweet words are uttered. She sputters and wipes her mouth, "Um...th--thank you! And I really should swing by this salon of yours for a...makeover, I guess? Like the one you did for that Mauve Lilac chick, huh?"
"I would very much love to have you over. I--I'll be honest, I don't usually go out and, well, you know...do this sort of thing. Losing the love of my life...it's changed me, Lena. I haven't been on a date since then, but now I--I think I'm finally ready to move on."
Lena takes a swig of her coffee. Elise overdid the sugar by a few extra spoons, but she's not about to critique such a triviality.
She then gently places her hand atop Elise's knee, "We all have to move on some time, right?"
Elise gasps when Lena's hand makes contact with her knee, "Y--yes, that's true. I suppose. I did rather enjoy our date tonight. I do understand why you can't tell me about your work as a Private Investigator and all. But is it fulfilling? Are you happy with what you've at least managed to achieve?"
Lena withdraws her hand and holds the cup with both hands, "Well...uh...I guess so. After all, I'm supposed to be a PI for the public good- that's my tagline. But I don't know if I've lived up to that ideal; I'd hardly call busting cheating spouses 'for the public good'. Don't get me wrong, what they do is shitty, but...there has to be more to life than this, right?"
Elise sighs and nods slowly, "Yes, there is more to life. Take it from someone twenty years your senior, hahaha!"
Lena laughs along and guzzles down the rest of her coffee. She smacks her lips and sets the empty mug aside.
She then asks, "The...age gap between us--"
Elise leans closer and tenderly caresses Lena's face, "Oh, don't say that. I'm aging gracefully, wouldn't you concur? And...you remind me of...her..."
Lena lowers her head, but Elise gently turns it up and stares into those longing amber eyes. She puckers her lips and goes in for the kiss. A kiss which Lena happily reciprocates.
Elise then proceeds to climb onto her date and straddle her. Lena's eyes widen in surprise, and she gulps as Elise leans down and smooches her passionately, their tongues clashing with each other and their moans filling the living room.
In time, all of their clothes are off. Elise giggles and drags Miss Adams to her bedroom. There, she twirls Lena around in an impromptu dance and throws her on top of the bed.
Lena stares up at the ceiling, but her field of vision is soon obstructed by the naked and voluptuous body of Elise.
Elise strokes her date's flushed cheeks, "You are so pretty..."
Lena bites her lower lip and squeezes Elise's right boob, eliciting a soft moan from the older woman. Their naked bodies smush up against each other as they share another tender, open-mouthed kiss.
Elise gently nips Lena's lower lip, causing the latter to yelp in surprise. They share a small titter and kiss once more, their tongues swirling around in each other's mouths.
The older chick tastes coffee and traces of mushrooms on Lena's tongue. Lena, in turn, tastes white bean soup on Elise's. They soon break the kiss, heaving and panting. They take a moment to admire each other's beautiful, nude forms.
Elise reaches down and rubs her palm on Lena's crotch. She then looks at her hand and notices how soaked it is, "Hmm...my, my. So wet for me already? Let's see if we can get you any wetter, Miss Adams. Mmmmm."
Lena spreads her legs a little. Elise gets the hint. She starts licking Lena's wet slit and flicking her clit with her thumb. Lena tightly grips the soft bedsheets and grits her teeth.
Elise giggles and licks Lena's clit repeatedly, making sure to flick and rub it as much as possible. Lena bites her lower lip and arches her back. Shaky moans escape her parted lips.
She shuts her eyes and relishes the moment, bucking her hips ever so slightly as Elise eats her out. Lena's body spasms a few times, indicating that the O-train is about to come in hot!
Elise buries her face in Lena's pussy, making all kinds of slobbering and slurping sounds. Her own juices of arousal run down her thighs and drip onto the bedsheets. The older chick's tongue darts deeper into the PI's pussy, eliciting more lewd sounds from both parties.
"Oh my god, oh my god...OH! OH! MMMMMMMH! YEAH!!"
Lena's pussy throbs and twitches. Elise licks her lips and brings her head up. A smug look is etched across her flushed and sweaty features. Lena looks down at her and struggles to find the words.
Elise smirks and goes back to the oral ministrations. Within seconds, Lena places her hands on her date's head and bucks her hips wildly as the orgasm rocks through her...and rocks her body it surely does.
The blonde woman licks her lips and withdraws her head. She makes a show of licking each of her fingers, too. After that, she wiggles up to Lena and plants a big kiss on her forehead.
Lena places her hand on the back of Elise's head and guides her down for a deep, passionate, tongue-filled kiss. Moans and sexy sounds of kissing fill the bedroom.
They break the kiss, sit up, and catch their breaths. Lena's amber eyes drift down to Elise's hairy crotch. She bites her lower lip and even before she can ask, Elise pushes her onto her back, mounts her face, and grinds her pussy against her open and eager mouth.
Elise interlocks her fingers with Lena's and moves her hips around in a rhythmic fashion, "Oh yes! Ohhhh yes, that's it! LICK! SUCK! OH!!!!"
Lena gladly obliges the older lass and swirls her tongue around. She tastes Elise's warm, sweet nectar. Her tongue finds its way deeper into the blonde's pussy, making squelching sounds as she does what needs to be done.
A sweet-salty taste floods her mouth as Elise gets closer and closer to her orgasm. While still interlocking fingers, Elise shuts her eyes tightly and moans loudly. She even screams once or twice.
Lena continues eating her out. Her mouth and chin are glistening with spit and pussy juice. Elise grunts and rubs her pussy faster against Lena's face.
And then it happens! An almost electrifying sensation rips through Elise's body. She spasms, her pussy throbs, and she grits her teeth and tightly holds onto Lena's hands.
The PI, for her part, just keeps going. She relishes the taste of cougar pussy, making sure that her tongue reaches every squishy nook, corner, and cranny. She makes all kinds of slurping and sucking sounds as she does so.
Elise's entire body twitches and spasms. Her vision swims, her toes curl, and she lets out a few small squeals. Once she pulls back, Lena's face is drenched in sweat, bits of pubic hair, and her own pussy juice.
Lena snorts and wipes her mouth. She flicks the pubes aside and props herself up by her elbows.
Elise has a horny, determined look etched onto her sex-flushed features. She climbs off of Lena and stares at her intently.
Lena has an inviting, sultry expression on her face. She licks her lips, which are still glistening with Elise's love juices, and smiles in a fashion most seductive.
Elise smiles back and positions herself in such a way that her and her date's vaginas are now touching. A mutual jolt runs through their bodies.
Lena places her hand on the back of Elise's neck and pulls her in closer for a kiss. They share a tender and passionate kiss while rubbing their pussies against each other, creating a symphony of wet, squelching sounds. No need for any lube cuz both pussies are already soaking wet!
The pair breaks the kiss, and Elise gazes into her date's amber eyes. She seems lost in thought, and her breathing becomes ragged. She places her hand on Lena's forehead and moves some stray locks of jet-black hair aside.
Elise mumbles, "You--you really do remind me of her."
Lena's expression falters. She gulps, blinks, and leans forward for yet another smooch. While making out, they engage in some tribbing as well. Elise's tongue swirls around Lena's mouth. Their pussies are already soaked with each other's juices, so it makes for an easy grind.
Lena then pushes Elise onto her back and continues with the pussy-grinding action, but this time, she adds more pressure to it. Elise looks up at her with wide eyes and yanks her down for a kiss. They make out as Lena grinds faster and faster against Elise's pussy.
Elise stammers, "Ah...ah...ah! Fuck! Yes, OH! That's my girl, yes! YES!"
Lena buries her face in the crook of the older woman's neck and nibbles on the soft flesh there. Elise shuts her eyes and squeals softly. After a few more moments of grinding, they pull back from each other and lock gazes.
Elise bites her lower lip and suggestively holds up her left boob, as if inviting the PI to suck on it.
Lena doesn't need to be told twice! She pounces forward and wraps her mouth around that sweet titty. Elise moans softly and places her hand on the back of Lena's head, pushing her in further and further.
Lena sucks on the erect nipple while also flicking it with her tongue. Her hands grope and squeeze the other breast. Elise continues to moan and writhe underneath the younger chick.
Elise playfully strokes Lena's hair and gently holds her in place. Lena grunts and keeps sucking and slurping on those awesome, amazing tits. Her saliva drips down, creating a small puddle on the bedsheets.
Once she pulls away, she smiles warmly and pulls Elise in for a passionate kiss. Lips clash with lips; tongues overlap with tongues. They hold each other tight.
Lena licks her lips and goes for the other boobie. Elise lets out a surprised chuckle but gladly welcomes the PI's oral ministrations. Her body twitches and spasms when Lena nibbles on the nipple. The PI's tongue swirls all the way around the other lady's areola, making it glisten with saliva.
Elise throws her head back and lets out a shuddering moan. She uses both hands to push Lena's face in further, "Mmmmmm...that's my girl, yes, that's my girl! MMMMM! Good girl, lovely girl, sweet...hmmmm...girl!"
Lena gleefully stimulates the blonde cougar's nipples, making sure to suck on as much boob as she possibly can. Her mouth leaves a trail of slobber all over Elise's chest, and another puddle of drool forms on the sheets.
After a few minutes of this, Lena pulls back and takes a deep breath. She is flushed and shaking like a leaf. Elise smiles seductively and flicks her date's nose, "You are so cute, Lena!"
"I know."
Elise cups Lena's cheeks and longingly stares into her eyes. She then brings her in for another steamy kiss. From there, she straddles Lena and gets to sucking on the PI's perky tits. The roof of her tongue goes over the nipples over and over again.
Lena bites her lower lip and arches her back. She settles deeper into the mattress, closes her eyes, and lets Elise have her way with her body. The blonde cougar gently bites on one of the younger woman's nipples and uses her free hand to give her ass a naughty squeeze.
Lena responds in kind, by holding onto Elise's ass cheeks and grinding against her knee. Elise giggles and continues to orally pleasure her date's titties.
After a lengthy make out sesh, the horny duo roll over and face each other. They then share an impromptu peck on the lips.
Elise's chest rises and falls with every breath that she takes, "Wow. I--I haven't had such amazing sex since--since--"
She chokes up, her voice breaking.
Lena fixes her with a sympathetic gaze, slowly piecing together the fact that Elise still hasn't quite gotten over her lost love. She remains silent and slowly places her head on the other woman's chest, curling up so they're all cuddled, cozy, and warm.
Elise wraps her arms around her date and sighs softly, "I--I'm sorry. It's just that you remind me of her..."
Lena stifles a sigh and nestles her cheek on Elise's boobs, "It's fine. Uh...about--"
"No, please. Don't--don't go. Stay here, sleep with me. Please, Lena. Being late to work on a Monday is hardly a bad thing."
The PI nods and kisses the underside of Elise's jaw, "Hm. I guess you're right. For what it's worth, I really enjoyed our time together. This was very, very special for me."
Elise smiles weakly. She strokes Lena's head, "I am so pleased to hear that. I am so tired. What a way to end this week, hmm?"
"Heh. Yeah. It's been exhausting."
"Tell me about it, love. Tell me all about it."
Lena yawns and wiggles around until Elise helps her rest on top of her body. Lena repositions her head on the blonde chick's boobs and heaves a content sigh.
Elise dreamily stares at the ceiling, her mind miles away. She wistfully looks at the picture of her and her long-dead girlfriend, which she keeps on her bedside table. She sighs again.
Lena's eyes flit over to where her date is staring. But the heaviness of sleep soon overtakes her. And with that, she closes her eyes and snuggles deeper into Elise's bosom.
Elise reaches out and strokes the face of her beloved, her departed lover. A few tears roll down her cheeks. She shuts her eyes tightly and lets them fall. She stifles a shuddering gasp and wraps her arms around Lena.
A few minutes later, she, too, succumbs to sleep.
(It's abundantly clear to Lena Adams that Elise is still not over the death of her lover, which means that this won't really blossom into anything beyond a one-night stand. Which is...alright, really. People need space and time to grieve, and Elise is surely no exception.)
For now, however, these two naked women just lie on the bed and cuddle each other, fast asleep.
Cock-a-doodle-doo!
The rays of the bright and shining sun stream in through the windows, gently illuminating the bedroom. Two nude bodies are curled up around each other, and they slowly begin to stir.
Elise is the first one to wake up. Lena is still fast asleep on her voluptuous bosom, so she doesn't disturb the younger woman. Instead, she just gazes upon her with an indescribable look etched onto her sleepy face. She blinks some crusty bits of sleep out of her eyes and sighs softly.
Lena slowly awakens. She tightly squeezes her eyes shut and yawns. She rolls out of Elise's embrace and sits up, rubbing her eyes and blinking blearily.
"And a good morning to you, too."
"Ugh...Monday," Lena sleepily groans.
Elise playfully taps Lena's nose, "Now, now. No need to be so glum, young lady. Shall I...get the shower ready for you?"
"What time is it?" Lena asks, her vision still swimming from just having woken up.
"It's eight in the morning."
Lena murmurs, "Oh, fuck. I'm gonna be late. And I--I can't show up to work wearing a--a dress like that. Shit!"
Elise places her hand on Lena's back, "Easy, easy. Would you like to borrow something from my closet?"
Lena turns and looks at Elise and vigorously shakes her head, "No, no. I--I have to get going. I gotta get home, get redressed, grab some coffee, and catch the train--"
Elise places a finger on the flustered employee of Pluto Enterprises and gently shushes her, "Relax, my dear. We have time. Easy, easy. I'm going to make you a nice, steaming cup of coffee, OK? The shower is all yours."
Lena grimaces, "I should just get going. Listen, this...was great and all. But can I be honest with you?"
Elise sits up straighter, her breasts jiggling ever so slightly, and she gives her date a concerned look, "Um...sure. For what it's worth, I absolutely adored every second of it. Right from our date to the walk, and lastly...to the...sex..."
Lena rubs the back of her neck and looks away, "That's great. And yeah, I loved it, too. But I--I dunno if we can actually...go on more dates. I mean, you're still grieving over the loss of your girlfriend, right?"
Elise hangs her head low. The silence says it all.
Lena goes on, "I mean, don't get me wrong. You are an--an absolutely amazing woman, but I just dunno if this is gonna work out. Look, I want it to, but...y'know? Loss isn't an easy thing to process."
Elise sighs and nods, "You are so right about that, Lena. Is there not even a slight chance that we could--"
Lena's expression reflects her well-meaning sincerity, "I'm sorry, Elise. But that doesn't mean we can't be...friends, right? Just friends, no sex or anything like that."
Elise sadly smiles, "Yeah, of--of course. I suppose that there are benefits to those sorts of...what would one call them? Arrangements? Agreements?"
Lena flatly states, "Friendships."
"Hm? Oh! Yes, of course. Err...I'll get your coffee ready. I don't suppose you'd like to stay for breakfast?"
Lena presses her lips into a thin line and shakes her head from side to side. Elise musters up a tight-lipped smile, nods, and slowly walks out of the bedroom.
Lena sighs and throws her legs off the side of the bed. She heads to the bathroom and takes a quick shower while Elise gets a quick cuppa joe ready for her.
The PI reckons that it's better to let this nice lady down rather than lead her on any further. As much as she would like to see more of the blonde cougar, she doesn't want to constantly be told that she reminds Elise of her murdered lover.
That's just a tad...uncomfortable for Ms. Adams's taste. The age gap thing isn't much of an issue, either. Lena once dated a chick well into her fifties. But they kinda stopped seeing each other owing to a myriad of reasons.
But that's neither here nor there.
Lena then rushes into the living room, fully dressed in her fancy clothes, and downs the entire prepared mug of coffee in two big gulps. Elise's eyes widen at how quickly the younger woman is able to drink that piping hot beverage.
"Wow, you really cannot live without your coffee, eh?"
Lena wipes her mouth with the back of her hand and nods, "Mm-hmm. T--thanks."
Elise regards her with an inquisitive look, "You're not going to eat something, hmm?" Concern laces her voice.
Lena shakes her head and heads over to the front door, "No, no. I should really get going."
Elise rushes over and nervously asks, "A--a parting kiss, at least?"
Lena pauses and looks over at Elise with a small, twitchy smirk. She puckers her lips and leans forward, giving the older woman a tender smooch. Elise isn't quite ready to break the kiss, but she eventually does.
The blonde lady smiles weakly and nods. She slowly strokes Lena's cheek and stares into those amber eyes. Lena's smile falters a little. She pulls away and says, "I had an awesome time with you last night. But I--I'm sorry, it can't go any further than that. If I let you down, then--"
Elise places her finger on Lena's quivering lips, "Shh, shh. I understand. I do. It's just that you reminded me so, SO much of her, that's all. And every second that I spent with you constantly reminded me of her."
Lena's expression softens, "I know. And I'm so sorry that I couldn't help you get through this."
"You did more than you should have, Lena. We--we'll keep in touch, yeah?"
The PI equably answers, "We will. And I do hope that you find true love one day. But whoever she is, she's not me. And uh...she's gonna have one hell of a job keeping up with you."
Elise's eyebrows shoot up at that blunt remark. She chuckles a little, "You favor the direct approach, don't you, Miss Adams? You really are quite adorable."
Lena shrugs, "Eh. That's how I roll. This is...goodbye, I guess."
Elise's smile doesn't quite reach her eyes. Her fingers linger on Lena's chin for a few seconds longer before she retracts them. They nod at each other, wave, and part ways.
Lena quickens her pace and gets ready to go back home, change out of her lovely dress, and hopefully make it to work in time. And as usual, she snags a cup of coffee along the way.
(She's so glad that this morning wasn't awkward between her and Elise, but she wonders if she should've been so direct and harsh about it.)
Lena has always had a sharp, sorta rough edge to her personality, but she didn't know if it was the right thing to do to just be so outright blunt about the whole situation.
Would things have worked out with Elise? Maybe in another universe, another timeline, a parallel one where they could be some sort of a happily married couple madly in love with each other.
But in this iteration of the world, perhaps it was never meant to be. In this version of things, in this variation, Lena's fate was bound up with other forces, other intriguing and interesting characters.
And they were already bound to meet. Sooner or later, Lena Adams was going to run into them. And they were going to run into her.
Chapter Four: The Orpheus Ruse
Until then, life goes on as normal.
Lena returns home, slips outta her dress, changes into a clean set of work clothes, does her hair and makeup a bit, and finally heads off to work. The PI heads to Crystal Street Station and patiently waits for the next train to arrive.
As she stands there, she scrolls through her phone and looks at some random pictures in her gallery. She sighs and puts her phone away. The train arrives, and Lena gets on.
Most of the office-adjacent types stare blankly ahead or look down at their phones or tablets. One of them even cracks a weak smirk and gives the PI a lingering once-over. Lena doesn't even notice the gesture.
She sits in the corner and waits for the choo-choo train to take her to her destination. She gazes around the place and contemplatively mulls some things over. Her mind wanders over to a myriad of different subjects.
The not-so-distant past, the immediate present, and the not-so-certain future. Little did she know that her own fate was intertwined with people who are (still) strangers to her.
Lena does eventually get to her workplace, but it's a few minutes past eight forty-five. She picks up the pace and hurriedly gets through the reception area, the security checkpoints, and then into the elevator.
She quickens her walk and bounds towards her cubicle. Her co-workers give her a curious look and say nothing as she sits down and starts working.
Once she logs in, she is greeted by the picture of a rocky outcropping- that's today's desktop background. She shakes her head, exhales sharply, and gets her day underway. She does the same, old, boring stuff.
(Mondays do be like that).
The hours go by in a blur of paperwork, document processing, database sorting, and filing. It's pretty dull. Lena is snapped out of her reverie when a man's nasally voice reaches her ears, "Lena?"
She looks up and smiles politely at the bossman, Mr. Gary Stuttgart, "Hm, what?"
Gary is a pasty man in his late thirties with a balding head and a wiry build. He's wearing a gray pinstripe suit and a solid red tie, his usual attire. His rimless glasses are perched atop his nose, and he always looks like he's shining. His expression is oftentimes difficult to read.
He dryly points out, "You were late today..."
Lena rubs her face and acknowledges, "I was late today."
He tilts his head and clicks his tongue, "OK...that's not how this works, Ms. Adams."
Lena stifles a groan, "I'm actually busy here, Gary..."
Gary strokes his thick mustache and evenly tells her, "Mm-hmm. Let's not repeat that again, hmm? Believe it or not, but you're a very valued employee here at Pluto Enterprises."
Lena scoffs under her breath, "Sure feels like it. Actually, I wanted to talk with you about something."
Gary leans against a wall and placidly enquires, "And what would that be, Lena?"
"Just something that's been on my mind, that's all."
"I'll see when my schedule is clear. If it is, I'll slot you in. Most I can spare is seven to ten minutes."
Lena's eyebrows go up, "Wow. Sure, that's more than enough time. Thanks. Now, if you don't mind."
Gary fervently nods and wheedles outta her sight, "Oh, oh, of course. Don't wanna overstay my welcome. Haha!"
(He's not bad people, but it's clear that he unquestioningly carries out the orders of his corporate betters- just a few weeks ago, he had to let a few of the long-term PE talent go because "streamlining" and "efficiency" and a whole buncha other corporate buzzwords.)
Ironically enough, PE reported a rather favorable quarter in its earnings forecast the very next day. But that's neither here nor there, surely!
Lena sips on a small cup of coffee. While doing so, her brows knit together in a frown. A bunch of random documents have found themselves in her work email account- she surmises that one of the newbies must've misfiled them or some such.
"What the hell??" Lena guzzles down the rest of the coffee and sets the paper cup aside. She sits up straighter and starts the mind-numbingly monotonous task of trying to figure out who sent these over.
However, her facial expression shifts when her amber eyes skim through the documents. Her pulse begins to race, and her heart rate starts to accelerate.
Lena reads out what she's seeing, "'On The Beach'. 'Incident Learning Process'. 'OBEs'. 'PLEs'. Gauze? Gauze?! The fuck is all of this?? What am I--I even reading here?"
Lena takes a closer look at the sender of the files. Unknown sender. Now, this just got hella suspicious (and intriguing). And hella scary, to boot. She cranes her neck and sees her boss in a very important meeting of some kind.
Company guidelines clearly stipulate that when such suspicious events occur, the whole thing should be reported straight to Mr. Stuttgart himself. Not IT, not the head of IT, not to anyone else, not to the other department heads.
Straight to Mr. Stuttgart. But he's in a meeting. He's sitting back in his fancy leather chair, and his fingertips are steepled together, his head is bowed, and his brow is furrowed. Looks like an intense budget planning session.
Or a great timewaster. Dime a dozen of those types of meetings in such corporate environs. Lena herself has been subject to quite a few.
She grunts and shakes her head, trying her hardest not to think about it. She eventually comes to the conclusion that this is just some type of innocuous error. Could it be a benign prank? A dumb practical joke designed to...what, exactly?
Lena goes over whatever came her way again. She can make neither head nor tails of it. For the time being, she figures that the best thing she can do is leave it all be.
The more she reads this stuff, the more her face scrunches into a confused scowl. Lena eventually decides to stop reading the mysterious documents and focus instead on the immediate tasks at hand- the tasks that her salary is dependent upon completing.
The real-world activities she needs to do, not the hokey pokey, mysterious shit. But...but a small part cannot help but wonder just what all of this entails.
While lingering near the watercooler, Lena mutters to herself, "'Spectres'. Since when did this company have anything to do with...Spectres? And what the hell is--"
She is snapped out of her hazy thoughts by an unexpected hand clapping her shoulder.
Gary. He has an inscrutable look etched onto his otherwise immaculately groomed mug. Armed security guards flank his sides. Lena looks at them, then down at her attire.
Gary lowers his voice, "Let's not make a scene in the middle of the day, Lena. Just come with me nice and calm-like, OK? I'm sure that there's a logical explanation for--for all of this."
The guards lift their chins and intensely stare at the PI, who wobbles on the spot. Her eyebrows go up, and her eyes widen. The others stop what they're in the middle of doing and keenly observe the proceedings.
"Gary?! W-what the--what are you talking about??"
"Please, Lena. Don't make this any harder than it's already getting. Come with us and we'll get it all sorted out, OK?"
Lena gulps and accedes to his request, "OK. OK. Look, I dunno what's going on, but..."
Gary ushers her into his office and locks the door. The armed guards stand outside, their chests are puffed out, and their grim expressions unchanging.
The bossman presses a button on a remote and the frosted glass turns fully opaque. Oh, shit's gettin' real!
Lena looks around her boss's office- not her first time in here. He gets his own aircon, a mahogany desk, the biggest ergonomic chair that she has ever seen, a freaking Apple iMac, shit-tons of awards for everything from mentorship to leadership, and a buncha other knickknacks.
(And that's not even including the lucrative stock options and bonuses that Gary is entitled to! And he counts as middle class!)
Meanwhile, people like Lena are practically living hand-to-mouth.
Gary sits down with a heavy sigh, "It has recently come to my attention that you have been the recipient of some...confidential information. Some sensitive documents. Very, very sensitive."
Lena licks her lips and nervously nods, "I swear that--that I had absolutely nothing to do--"
Gary lifts a stern finger and continues, "Please, don't speak until I finish saying what I have to say. After I'm done, you can say your piece."
She lowers her head and glumly stares at the floor.
The bossman brings his fingers together in a steeple, rests his elbows on his desk, and regards her with a measured look, "Miss Adams. Lena. You had no business seeing those documents...but you did. Those weren't meant for you. You should've deleted them the moment you saw the header."
Lena throws her hands up and complains, "I was going to, but I--"
Gary tuts, "Ah, ah, ah. Let me finish. Please. I've already ordered IT to perform a full, remote wipe of your computer. I'm sorry, but we at Pluto Enterprises take safety and confidentiality of our data very, very seriously."
Lena stiffens. The words get caught in her throat.
When her boss senses her silent acquiescence, he goes on, "All you had to do was come to me, Lena. Instead, you went ahead and, for whatever reason, decided to open the email and peruse the contents. Why? To put it plainly, what you did was extremely irresponsible."
"But--but you were busy, Mr. Stuttgart," Lena softly murmurs.
Gary shakes his head, "That's hardly an excuse. If it's an emergency- which it absolutely was- then you'd have had my permission to break the door down, pull a fire alarm, or scream to get my attention. But you did nothing of the sort."
"I--I didn't know."
"Exactly. You didn't know. Now, here's the hard part--"
Lena gasps, "You're not gonna lay me off for THIS?!"
Gary frowns and visibly bristles, "No. Please, don't be so overdramatic. We're not going to fire you. Don't worry."
Lena breathes out an audible sigh of relief. The sweat glistening on her forehead says it all. She clears her throat and belatedly apologizes, "Oh, s--sorry."
(Lena Akira stays in her job because of the medical and dental insurance coverage that she receives from being employed by Pluto Enterprises. She's had it like that ever since she started interning with them- straight outta college. If she leaves, she loses ALL of it. Simple as.)
Such is the ugly reality of the capitalist system, which is quite akin to a toxic, abusive relationship. And as such, people like Lena have no other choice but to sell their labor power in exchange for a meager paycheck.
Many in this world have no choice because they NEED the dosh to pay the bills and finance their basic needs- food, shelter, clothing, transportation, sleep, stability, etcetera.
It doesn't have to be this way...
Gary shuffles some loose paperwork and plainly states, "It's fine. We have no intention of letting you go. You've been with us...for years. You're practically a member of the Pluto family. Besides, the costs of recruiting and training somebody to replace you would be...well, substantial."
Lena faintly smiles, "OK...I'm sorry for--for whatever I did."
Gary evenly responds, "No problem. Don't do it again. Not that we're expecting something like this to happen ever again. But in this line of work, you just never know. Even if you think you're taking precautions, it can always go wrong. There's a million-and-one ways for things to go sideways."
Lena's face falls, and she lowers her gaze to the floor.
The bossman queries, "What exactly did you see in those documents, anyway? I'm sorry, but I have to ask."
"Just a bunch of stuff that I didn't understand, Gary. I mean, I tried making sense of it, but..."
Gary interjects, "We wouldn't recommend trying to make sense out of that. As far as we're concerned, it's just a bunch of mumbo-jumbo."
Lena asks, "Was it some kind of a prank?"
Gray briefly chuckles, "Maybe." His tone goes from stern to mildly evasive.
Lena clearly picks up on his change of demeanor, too. She tries her luck anyway, "How about an explanation?"
Gary straightens his posture and vehemently tells her, "You don't need any other explanation. You're in the wrong here, not the company. And I don't have to remind you of the clauses in your contract- no discussing these matters with coworkers, family, loved ones, lovers, friends, or basically anyone other than the department heads and directors of this company."
Lena blows a raspberry, "Mm-hmm. I've been here long enough to know how things are done. I used to bring coffee on a cart to a room full of investors, remember those days?"
Gary smiles and nods, "Yep. You were just getting started with us. Your first job straight outta, what was it..."
Lena's smile fades, "Indiana State University."
Gary's smile also vanishes, and he starts to look a tad uncomfortable. He uses his thumb to scratch his mustache, "The years certainly went by. Look at you now. Look at how far you've come. Gone are those wheel carts and in came a bunch of new, important responsibilities. Lots of responsibility."
"Oh, sure. Yay me. Since I have your attention now..."
Gary leans closer and stares at her intently, "Yes?"
"What the hell is an OBE or a PLE? What 'Beach' are we On?"
"I'm not gonna dignify that with an answer...or any answer, for that matter. Don't ever bring it up again- that's my last warning to you, Lena. Certain...things are out there, but we'd strongly encourage you not to think about them. Mankind wasn't meant to know everything."
Lena is in the habit of not taking orders too well, even when she doesn't have a whole lot of choice in the matter. So, instead of meekly accepting her boss's caveat, she presses on, "Honestly, it didn't sound like gibberish to me. Something's going on here and as an employee of PE, I have a right to know what's really--"
Gary explodes, "Enough!! Not another word of this!"
He calms down, "Please, Lena. You have no idea what--what--never mind."
Lena narrows an eye, "Since I still have your attention, why don't we talk about a raise, huh? Hell, you yourself said that I'm family, right? And if I know anything about family, it's that they have each other's backs, don't they?"
Gary sucks some air in through his teeth. He clears his throat, looks to the side, and ponders something.
Lena doesn't take her amber eyes off of her boss. He feels the pressure of her gaze and writhes with discomfort.
The bossman concedes, "An increase in salary is something that--that I...uh...can't personally authorize. All final decisions are at the behest of--of the CEO, who reports directly to the Board. If you really wanna push for a bump in pay, I can refer the matter over to HR."
Lena dryly tells him, "You better get started on it, then. I've worked here for a significant portion of my adult life, Gary, and I've gotten, like, coupons and shitty-ass gifts and cards. Nothing substantial. And don't even get me started on last year's crappy mugs and t-shirts."
"Alright, alright. I'll see what I can do. But you better not use this as an attempt to blackmail or--or strong-arm us. This isn't how things should be done, and we're not going to reward bad behavior."
Lena frowns, "What bad behavior? It's not my damn fault that a bunch of word salad documents found their way into my inbox, is it?"
Gary lamely concedes, "I suppose that you're correct; it isn't entirely your fault, yes. But that doesn't necessarily give you the right to get yourself involved in stuff that's none of your concern. And it sure as hell doesn't give you a right to extort or threaten your employer."
Lena scoffs, "Jesus. I'm not threatening anybody. All I'm asking for is a raise- it's reasonable! I mean, have you seen the rising prices? As it is, way more than half of my paycheck goes straight into paying the rent. And the rent's already gone up, too! Which means that I'm gonna have to shell out more and more!"
"I am truly sorry to hear that. We do offer courses on financial management and fiscal responsibility. You--"
"Fuck that shit. I want a raise. Not a lecture, not platitudes, not one more gift card. Not an umpteenth coupon. Money. Raise. And if it helps you sleep better at night, then I've already forgotten about...about all of that strange stuff."
Gary sighs, "I'll try getting that raise thing done. Most I can do is put in a--a good word for you and let my own bosses decide if you do merit a raise or not. Don't get your hopes up, though. Times are tough all around."
Lena groans, "Oh, spare me the sob story. I'm not stupid, this company is raking it in like nobody's fucking business."
Gary merely answers, "Mm-hmm. I suppose that may be the case. Now, if you don't mind. You and I both have work to do. The day's far from over." He makes something resembling a shooing gesture at her.
Lena picks herself up, bids a curt farewell, and heads back to her chair. She plops down on it and is greeted by a string of notifications popping up in her email account.
Her work computer has already been remotely wiped. An extreme measure, all things considered. It takes her a few minutes to get everything set up again. She has to manually change some settings, re-check for Windows Updates, and once the whole thing is back in shape, her work resumes.
Lena Adams is left with even more questions than she started out with.
The answers might (or might not) make themselves known to her in due time.
During lunchtime, Lena munches on a chunky burrito and thinks about matters NOT related to Pluto Enterprises. Namely, her cases as a Private Investigator for the public good.
Oh, yeah. She's got cases (plural) to tackle. Tyler's murder isn't the only thing on her plate, and an investigation does not develop linearly. She's got a few potential cheating spouses to tail.
As for Tyler's case, she figures that she'll have to broaden her search a bit. There were no cameras in the immediate vicinity where Tyler was killed. But somebody farther away must've seen the car which ran him over.
Michael (her mentor) would often tell her, "When there's nothing in the immediate radius of the crime scene, you gotta expand your horizons. If there's nothing within two miles of the corpse, you better take a longer look- five miles away. And if you can't see anything within a hundred miles or so, then the only thing you can do is to ask the spirits if they saw anything."
She had no idea what that last part meant. Most likely an attempt at a joke, if anything.
But anyway, Lena reckons that she'll have to expand her search. There has to be a cam (whether from some dingy bodega, an ATM, a pawn shop, etc.) that should've seen the car speeding away. If she's lucky, then she'll be able to spot a dent, traces of blood, and most importantly...a license plate.
Lena tosses the burrito wrapper into a nearby trash can and languidly leans back in her chair. While the food digests, she shuts her eyes and briefly recalls last night's sensuous activities. A sultry smile adorns her face.
Remembering the passionate session makes her inner thighs twitchy.
Afternoon soon gives way to evening. Lena is now in her PI office. The sun begins its grandiose descent beneath the horizon. She goes over the files pertaining to Tyler, trying to see if there's something that she's still not seeing.
Maybe a clue or a crumb of some kind?
Elsewhere in this Domain...
Francesca Livroni of Clan Hecata stirs from her day-sleep. Flashes of traumatic past memories involving fire, shouting, and strong words invade her mind and cause her to violently shudder. Her skin crawls.
She pops awake. No breath emerges from her nostrils or mouth. Not that it was ever going to. And it hasn't for a long, long time.
The Whip to the Hecata Primogen resides in a simple duplex house in a quiet neighborhood where the houses are evenly spaced out. About two blocks from her own dwelling is a small grocery store selling everything under the sun.
Not that a vampire like her needs the edibles, but they have good deals on other stuff- cleaning solutions, lightbulbs, toothpaste, gardening tools, and the list goes on and on.
The soft brown carpeting runs up against her cold and bare feet when she slips out of her double bed. Francesca flings the curtains wide open and watches the moon behind the cottony clouds. It's an exceptionally bright, starry night.
The Necromancer has a long night ahead of her. But, like any other self-respecting Corpse with a shred of decency, she heads straight to the bathroom. Vampires might not have need for the toilet, owing to how changed their physiologies become after the Embrace, but there are other reasons why one would visit a restroom.
Francesca stares at her reflection in the mirror. The tiled walls look pristine. She analyzes her features- the deathly pale skin, the lifeless hazel eyes, the remnants of dark circles underneath them becoming quite visible again, the pinhole-sized pupils, and the messy blonde hair that's all over the place.
She shakes her head and gets ready to bathe. While she brushes her teeth, she enters her walk-in closet and swiftly selects an outfit. After a vigorous teeth-brushing, she spits the white toothpaste out and mulls over the possibilities.
Fran thinks about the past- a lot. She remembers how she and many of her fellow Graverobbers were brought over here to Magnolia City, USA all the way from Italy. This was around the time that Benito Amilcare Andrea Mussolini had seized power.
The Italian Hecata- the ones who hadn't gleefully aligned themselves with the fascist scum, anyway- saw the proverbial writing on the wall and decided that it was high time for them to relocate. Or, at the very least, escape to a safer place.
(Not an easy thing to do when one is a cold, walking corpse incapable of being out in the sun for even a second!)
He...brought them here to Magnolia City. But not necessarily out of the magnanimity of his shriveled heart.
While under the shower, Francesca shudders. Not just because of the water. Rather, the reason for her shudders are thoughts of...him. Her Clan's Elder, the man who had used his own immense wealth, power, and connections to bring a shipload of his fellow Hecata to safer shores.
Francesca holds her naked body tightly, a few tears of blood dropping down the side of her cheeks. They eventually intermingle with the shower water and get washed away. The many (mixed) thoughts swish, swirl, and ferment inside her mind.
His words were stern...as were the many lessons that he had taught her. Francesca looks at her left hand. Burn marks and other severe injuries from the past mar her dead flesh. It's so grotesque that the very sight of it makes her sick- even while knowing full that she can't really "get sick" anymore.
Francesca's left hand is still usable- all her fingers are present and twirl as intended- but the burns make her skin look as Repulsive as that of a Nosferatu's. The blemishes, cracks, and scars are a never-ending reminder of the importance of certain things.
Family being the most important of them all. At least for the Hecata Clan.
Francesca wraps a towel around her body and heads out. She wipes her face and lets the memory play through her mind. As ghastly and traumatic as it is, the eternal nature of her existence demands that she keeps an ironclad focus on her duties...to the Family above all else.
The Family-Stiff (Nickname for the Hecata Clan) rubs her left hand with her right one. She winces each time she feels the roughness and deformities of her scarred flesh. When the memories begin to subside a bit, she snaps back to reality and reminds herself that...he is no longer here.
(The hand never healed after what was done. He made sure of it.)
As a matter of fact, he has not been seen for decades on end. And yet, not a night goes by when the other Hecata (especially her Primogen) are not reminded of their Elder's many...lessons. Lessons in the importance of sticking together and not rocking the boat.
Lessons in the necessity of Family, of the Blood, and of the world beyond. A reminder, too. A reminder of the Promises.
Particularly, the Promise of 1528. And he always knew about the five-hundred-year time limit. Granted, 2028 is still a long way off, but he was already making certain preparations. Even back in the last century!
These nights, most Hecata (Francesca included) sorta wait around and go about their Unlives as usual. When 2028 comes, then they'll see. They will hopefully know what to do when that night emerges from the shadows. Until then, one step at a time.
Francesca puts on a silky red shirt with the topmost buttons undone- this reveals a small bit of her cleavage- Ooh La La! She wears an above-knee-length gray skirt and a pair of heels. For accessories, she slips her leather glove onto her left hand (reasons), puts on some hoop earrings, and wraps some shiny bracelets around her wrists.
As for makeup, she settles in for some delightfully seductive and dark eye shadow, a touch of mauve lipstick, and some rouge. She applies some concealer to, well, conceal the deathly paleness of her skin- can't be too careful these nights!
She grabs her (recently acquired) Gucci purse and dons a pair of sunglasses (for the cool factor and nothing else). Her blonde, bobbed hair is a bit all over the place, but she's managed to dry and style it into something that looks decent enough for tonight's occasions.
Francesca heads downstairs and enters her study. She leaves the door open and sets herself behind the ornate, cherry mahogany desk. She pulls out a stack of letters and decides to go through them again. As of late, she's had this pang to go over her old missives.
She cracks a tiny smile at some of the steamy (at least by last century's standards) love letters. While she goes through the plethora of correspondence, the doorbell rings.
Food's here!
Her dead eyes flit to another letter, this one anything but flowery. The name on it has been partially scratched out- even after all these decades, the vicious claw marks are still discernible. She couldn't have forgotten about him even if she wanted to.
"Giordano," she says with a slight growl. She doesn't get any angrier than she already is, but hearing the name itself is enough to make her feel a stinging pain. And not just in her left hand.
The memories of his hideousness are somewhat fresh. And yet, he brought them all over here and (perhaps) saved their Unlives from the fascists.
Even now, his words echo and reverberate throughout her mind, 'I could've left you for Il Duce, but I brought you here. My Blood. My Clan. Never forget, Francesca. Family above all else. Even the Sects. Even the Eternal Struggle."
Francesca shudders and gets up to get the door. The second ring of her bell sounded more impatient than the first. This time, a man with a mohawk and tons of piercings stands in front of her.
He looks to be in his twenties. His tattooed hands are clasped together, and an expectant look is written on his face. He looks like the kinda guy who likes...Pain.
Francesca sighs and lets him inside her Haven. He knows what this arrangement entails. Hell, she surmises that this guy probably LIVES for the kind of Pain that she's about to inflict on him.
He didn't bring anything with him. He IS the food for the nocturnal predator of the dark nights.
The mortal looks around her Haven, "Sweet digs. Lotta Italians on this block, heh. Lemme guess, you're way older than a lot of the nonnas on this block?"
Francesca side-eyes him, "What is it to you?"
Mohawk man shrugs, "Hey, it's nothing to me. I'm curious, is all. And it wouldn't be my first time getting...bit by one of you people. Does it always hurt when Italian vampires bite into people or am I just some rare breed of masochist or something?"
Francesca ushers him to the living room. Her bulky touchscreen phone is charging, there's no TV present, and a few couches are scattered about. She sits down and has the mortal sit across from her.
He taps the side of his neck with two fingers, "Well, go on. Do your thing. Unlike others, I actually live for this sorta shit. Not the pain, mind you. But the euphoric rush, the explosion of ecstatic sensation and overwhelming pleasure that I feel when you..."
Francesca holds her cold hand out, "You're not the first person I've fed on who has an...inclination towards this sort of activity. Normally, I would have a much better selection, but times are tough, and--"
The mortal interrupts her, "Yeah, yeah, yeah. And word on the street is that you usually cook a mean spaghetti and meatball meal afterward, so I came in prepared."
A wee while later...
Mohawk man barely winces. The Kiss was Painful as all heck, but he's developed a sort of tolerance towards it- or rather, he enjoys it. Francesca returns with a plate of hot food.
He's got a hungry look in his eyes. He gleefully accepts her offering and digs in. Within minutes, he wolfs it all down and slurps the sauce noisily, "Ah, not the best I ever had, but it's definitely up there."
Francesca plainly nods, feeling her own Hunger being sated, "Anything else before you leave? And remember, do not tell anybody about this...arrangement."
"Yes, nonna. Do you wanna tell me to avoid strangers in big white vans, too?"
Fran shakes her head, "How many of you are there?"
He grimaces at the query, "Huh?! The fuck's that supposed to mean?"
"Your kind. The kind who, for some reason, gain pleasure from such...Painful bites. Is it a...fetish of some kind? Can you not feel any Pain?"
"Wow, you are super old, hahaha! What's wrong with having a fetish? And I sure as hell could FEEL your bite, lady. Hey, don't get me wrong, I enjoyed it as--as much as you did."
"Hmm. Very well. Please, be careful."
Mohawk man feels his head spinning. When he attempts to stand up, he falls back and catches himself. His eyes have an unfocused glossiness to them, "Whoa. Shit, I...feel woozy. Mind if I lounge here for a few?"
Francesca shrugs, "By all means. It is the...least that I can do for you."
He asks her, "You got any video games around here? You do know what those are, right? And uh...where's your TV, lady? No, seriously, I've been to some of your friend's digs and they're IN the current century. But you? Oh, shit. Something's--"
The mortal clutches the side of his head, "Grrr. Woozy. Wow. Y--you didn't accidentally take too much, right?"
Francesca equably states, "I took only what was required. I can make you a...drink if you would like?"
"What, like, a post-getting-bit-by-Italian-vampires hangover cure? Is it green, white, red, and gloopy?"
Francesca chuckles, "I was thinking something along the lines of warm water."
"Warm? H--Honey, a vamp's definition of warmth is not the same as mine. Seriously, you were colder than the Arctic Circle when you were touching me! But I gotta ask..."
Fran sits back down, "Hmm. Ask."
"What's with the Italian accent? Are you new to this country or something? Wait, how do vampires do the whole immigration thing?"
"I have been here for decades. More need not be said because I do not know you that well. And...there are certain rules that our kind must uphold."
The bitten mortal rubs his neck and snarks, "Yeah, like...don't talk to the food. Oh, wait! 'Thou shalt not talkest to thine food'."
This elicits a soft chuckle from the immortal lady, "Hmm. Funny. Wait here for a few minutes. Once you are feeling better, you may leave. I will clear your plate and bring you some warm water."
"Gotcha!"
Once the food (tm) takes his leave, Francesca shuts the door and places her head against the painted wood. She's had a long Unlife so far. Usually, she goes hunting. But her Clan finds all these sorts of people (scene kids, so-called "freaks", those on the margins of society, etc.) and has some sort of revolving door system going on.
Except the mortals never know who, where, and what will be next in line. All they know is that the bites of these particular vampires hurt. And they really do fuckin' hurt!
Normally, the Kiss is supposed to be this quasi-euphoric thang, but the Clan of Death are somewhat incapable of providing a more ecstatic or pleasing experience.
('Tis what it is!)
Miss Livroni grabs her Gucci bag, locks the front door, and saunters towards the bus stop. She feels a little bad about feeding off the mortal, but eh. It's either such arrangements or the worse(er) alternatives that her Clan has resorted to in the past.
The first thing on her agenda is to swing by the Haven of her Primogen- Vincenzo. He lives in a high-rise apartment in the inner city, and even at night, the sprawling urban jungle is a colorful and vibrant sight.
Vincenzo's second floor apartment is a tad cramped. The lights cast a sickly yellow hue, and the humidity is pretty high. But he's situated here because the energies of the dead are higher in this part of the Domain.
And since Vincenzo is a Graverobber, this is definitely the most appropriate place for him to be. Even his duties as Primogen come second to his unerring devotion to...Family. And not just any lowercase-f family.
But The Family. The ones not bound by the usual mortal ties.
Vincenzo is tall and disturbingly thin. He seems to be in his fifties and has gaunt and hollow features. His pallid skin is riddled with acne and mottled with discolorations, and his oily hair is slick, short, and black.
His teeth are yellow and slightly crooked. His Italian accent is as thick as Francesca's.
He greets her with outstretched arms, "Francesca, cara (ITA: dear)! Come, come!"
The Whip returns his hug and politely kisses him on the cheeks. He returns the gesture, as is the custom.
Vincenzo ushers her inside his dimly lit Haven and offers her a seat. To call it messy would be an insult to messy. Scattered tomes, ancient looking documents, and crumbling old newspapers are strewn all over the place, and the amount of dust in here is amazing.
A few spiders have made their homes here, too. As have other creepy-crawlies.
Even the Primogen's outfit looks raggedy- an old shirt overlaid with a sleeveless sweater vest, faded slacks, and some flimsy-looking shoes.
Francesca sits on the cleanest possible seat that she can find and gracefully folds her legs, "How are you tonight?"
Vincenzo joyously answers, "Bene! Bene! (ITA: Good! Good!) And you?"
Fran shrugs, "The mortal you sent my way was...satisfactory."
Vincenzo lips curl up into an unsettling smirk, "That is good! These, eh...how do you call them? Ah, yes. These punks are not all so bad. Their...uh, spirit is strong. Hmm, yes, yes. Their spirit. Hmm. I have communed with many punks...many indeed!"
Francesca smiles softly, "Thank you for your help. I never got the chance to properly thank you the other night."
He swats a fly buzzing near his nose, "Oh, please! Do not mention it! It was only the least I can do for such an esteemed member of...our...Clan. Hm, yes. Clan."
"Not Family?"
Vincenzo winces and involuntarily spasms when that word escapes Francesca's lips.
He rubs the side of his greasy cheek, "Clan. That other word...it has lost all meaning to me on these nights, cara. Giordano...he was not a good man. I should not speak like this, but I am grateful that he...disappeared. In decades, we have not seen him; and maybe that is for--for the best."
Francesca tightly holds her gloved hand and nods along, "Sì. He...was not a good man. But if it were not for him, we would still be in Italy. And the fascists would've found us and--and--and destroyed us."
Vincenzo fixes her with a baleful, pursed-lipped glare, "Hmm, true, true. Do you ever think of the old country?"
"Sometimes. You?"
"Many times, haha! Sì, sì. Giordano, he...saved us. But it does not change what he did to us- all of us. The ways that he went about ensuring that the, hmm...Clan was united and loyal. The methods he took to ensure such loyalty and unity, I--"
He gulps, "I--if only we could've freed ourselves sooner. But he has not been seen in decades and for that, I thank the spirits. Maybe the spirits did it, you know? How do you say it? Disappeared him?"
Francesca mirthlessly chuckles, "I would like to think so, too. But Giordano was a powerful Elder. His command over the spirits was superb and they always obeyed his every will. He would not have gone so easily."
Vincenzo scoffs and flicks a small roach off his shoulder, "Tch. Then in that case, I hope he went...kicking and screaming! I hope that the spirits swarmed him and broke him like the...cazzo that he--he always was."
Francesca forces a few breaths through her lifeless lungs. The smell in here is rancid and stale. She winces and rubs her cold neck with her gloved hand, "Hmm. Let us speak of something else."
Vincenzo shakes his head, "You worry that he will return?"
"Will he?"
"Our Blood is immune to the Beckoning. But it wouldn't be like him to suddenly disappear. And all of his Ghouls were mercilessly slain...I communed with their spirits, and they all say the same thing."
It wouldn't be the first time that Francesca is hearing all this, so she dully repeats, "They all saw a very fast and little man wielding a sword. Hm."
The Hecata Primogen lifts his chin and stares at the cawing raven on his grimy windowsill. Its beady raven eyes stare back at his dead eyes with a certain awareness. An intelligence.
It flaps its wings and caws again.
Vincenzo makes a harsh shooing gesture and the bird flies off, "I thank whoever that small man is. Or was. He did our Clan a service by disposing of that monster. By removing him, he allowed us the opening that we needed."
The Hecata Whip points out, "Aren't we also monsters?"
Vincenzo counters, "Hmph, yes, perhaps. But not as bad as he was. We are monsters only out of necessity. Giordano was a monster because he--because he liked it. He revelled in it, that old fool. But now, all is right with the world. Anyway, cara, what brings you here?"
"I wanted to say hello. And thank you."
"You already did. And how is everything else? Work, home, the...other stuff?"
Francesca flatly reports, "Work is normal. And quite flexible. Grazie (ITA: Thank you) for--for helping me get this job."
Vincenzo clicks his tongue, "Ah, it was nothing, cara. After all those long, long years of you toiling in that restaurant, I was happy to finally lend a hand to you. What else is new?"
Fran shifts around on her seat, "Same old. Same old."
"Have you found a lover yet?"
"No."
"A Ghoul, at least?"
"No."
Vincenzo shakes his head from side to side, "You must at least have a...friend, cara. A companion. Keeping up your Humanity is vital, especially for creatures as...Morbid as us."
Francesca avers, "I don't want a Ghoul. Well, not yet. And as for a lover, well..." She trails off and glances around her fellow Hecata's Haven. Gloomy and messy, but not awful.
Vincenzo follows her gaze and suggests, "Heh, you think my place is...terrible?"
"No. I understand why you have chosen to live in such a space."
Vincenzo clarifies, "Chosen to? It is necessity. It brings me closer to the dead with whom I regularly commune on these nights, cara. You could easily pierce the Shroud yourself if you tried to. And I know that you have."
She chuckles, "Sì. I...have."
"And how was it?"
Francesca shows off her Gucci bag, "She led me to it. She even told me of her many...stashes located all across this Domain- clothes, jewelry, some money. I will give most of it off and keep some to myself."
Vincenzo muses, "Ah, Francesca...always so generous! A good quality to have, yes."
"How long before you have to move again?"
The Primogen clicks his tongue derisively, "A few more months. Even you see it, don't you? The Decay all around...me. This Haven was not like this when I first moved in."
The Whip lowers her head pensively, "I know. I know. Are you managing fine?"
Vincenzo shrugs, "The dead guide me. They are my path- my purpose. I know of some houses that are unoccupied by the waking but are nonetheless full of restless souls. I will continue to commune with them and work out some kind of deal. Bargain, maybe?"
"Hmm. I should go now."
"Yes, yes. Be well, cara. Do what must be done for the good of the Fa--err--Clan. Your Humanity is...precious. Yes, it is the most precious thing that you have."
"Sì. Sì. Grazie. Addio (ITA: Goodbye)."
He remains seated and waves her goodbye. He then turns his attention back to the grimy windowsill. The raven is back and this time, there's some blood on its beak.
It caws at him as if to beckon his attention.
Francesca makes her way down the steps and back out into the street. She pulls out her smartphone and checks her messages. Nothing of note. Her next destination is a simple subway ride away.
Ten minutes later, she's standing outside a park. Her footwear clacks on the cobblestone path. She walks down to the end, turns left, and steps onto some grass. A row of quaint little houses is in front of her. The lights in the windows are off, save for one house.
Francesca's expression softens as she slowly approaches the house. She knocks on the front door and is let in by a muscular young man wearing some kind of nurse's uniform. He ushers her inside, knowing full well who she is and why she's here.
She greets the caretaker politely, "Hello, Jeremy. How is he keeping?"
Jeremy wipes his hands with a towel and replies, "Sal's...keeping fine, Ms. Livroni."
Francesca adjusts her shirt's collar and strides into the bedroom. On the bed is a very, very old man. A few tubes and sensors are attached to his arms. Machines beep and blink in tandem with the man's heartbeat and other vitals.
His face is wrinkly and most of his once-luscious hair has fallen off. His skin is sagging and his body has withered away from old age and overwork. In short, the long years have not been kind to Sal.
Not at all.
Francesca takes the seat next to him and delicately sits down. She gingerly runs her cold right hand on the mortal's forehead. He stirs awake, his eyes slowly opening to reveal two glassy green eyes. They stare unblinking into nothingness.
Fran waves in front of his face to get his attention. Sal sits up, blinks, and takes her hand. He softly whispers, "Fran?? Is that you?" His voice is hoarse and frail. His grip is weak.
"It is me, Sal."
Back then, Francesca used to work as front-of-house staff at none other than the Sorriso di Napoli (Smile of Naples) restaurant. Yep, the very same one that recently got redone, renovated, and renamed to Ristorante Cielo Blu (Cielo Blu Restaurant).
Sal was a waiter back then- and a whole lot younger, too. While Francesca's immortality carried her to this new century, Sal's fragile mortality aged and eroded him. Regardless, he is one of her oldest and dearest friends.
But the dementia that he currently suffers from has turned him into an old shell of his bubbly, witty, and charming self. The past and present all collide and smush together in his mind. A brain that could once retain entire orders from customers under extreme pressure is now reduced to this.
But even now, he's still able to recognize Fran. At least when he's able to. Right now, when he sees her, his face lights up in recognition and happiness.
For her part, Francesca has made sure to maintain contact with him, visiting whenever possible.
Sal props himself up by his elbows with a harsh groan, "Fran? Fran? Is that you?" The disbelief in his tone is unmistakable, as is his awe.
"It is me, Sal. How are you? Keeping fine? Feeling alright?"
Sal grunts, "It pains all--all over, Fran. Wow, you look...amazing. Or are my eyes tricking me?"
Fran chuckles and turns her head aside, "It is the low lighting in here. I have come to check up on you."
"Oh, that? That's--that's nothing, really! Hey, is that place on Elm Street still around? Think you could swing by and grab my...uh...that Jerome guy told me it's gone, but I--I don't trust him."
Francesca gently corrects, "His name is Jeremy, Sal. He is your caretaker- he only has your best interest in mind."
Sal mumbles, "And who are you again?"
Francesca's dead heart gets stung when those words leave Sal's lips. Her unblinking gaze lingers on her old friend and co-worker.
He gulps and repeats himself, "Who are you? Are--are you with the Watchtower? You t--tell those JW fucks that I'm out! OUT! I'm donating my blood to those folks and that's that!"
Francesca calms his down, "No, no. I am...it is me. Do--do you not remember? Me?"
Sal's expression softens as realization slowly dawns on him. The wrinkles in his face deepen, "F--Francesca? Whoa. Shit...hey! We gotta get to work now! C'mon, we better move or we'll miss the bus--" He actually tries to get up out of his bed, but she quickly places her cold hand on his bare shoulder.
She calmly pushes him back down and fixes him with a sympathetic look. He looks up at her with a slack jaw, the words failing to form in his mouth. He shrinks back down into his pillows and gets comfortable.
Francesca plays along, "Tonight is your...holiday, Sal."
"Oh, right. Right. You're still going to work, right?"
"Yes. Of course."
Sal muses, "Being front-of-the-house is a...lot of fun, isn't it? But not nearly as fun as what I do, heh."
"It is very enjoyable, I suppose."
Sal gesticulates and fondly recalls, "You know, last night...I took an order. We had these beatniks come in, real slick types. Didn't even need a notepad. I got it all up in here." He smirks and taps the side of his head with his bony index finger.
Francesca nods, "Yes. And you also took the orders from that African American couple sitting on the far table."
Sal repeats, "'One spaghetti for me and one penne pasta for the lady. Hold the olives.'"
Francesca chuckles, "Indeed--"
The dementia-stricken mortal cuts her off and excitedly says, "Did you know that--that Ladonna Hughes is coming to our joint next week? You know, the...the...singer. Beautiful voice, like an angel. I'm gonna ask for her autograph, Fran. I'm gonna do it."
She knows all too well to whom he is referring. She is also painfully aware of Ladonna's eventual fate- it was not a pretty one, to put it mildly. But of course, Sal will never be privy to the truth.
The two of them spend some time reminiscing about the good ol' nights. Sal bounces from anecdote to half-recalled memory narrated with great glee and enthusiasm. But then the conversation drifts towards other waters- darker, sadder, and less happy memories.
The eighties were hardly what one could call delightful. Austerity, cuts, and layoffs hit the restaurant business (and broader service industry) pretty hard back then. Sal got let go in a massive restructuring effort. Fran left due to the fact that some of her co-workers may have caught on to her apparent lack of aging.
After a few more tender minutes, Francesca bids her Touchstone goodbye, softly kisses him on the forehead, and leaves the room. He falls asleep soon afterwards, the fatigue finally catching up to his old bones and weary mind.
The Hecata vampire hands Jeremy some money and tells him to ensure that Sal lives out his days with some degree of dignity and comfort.
He pockets the money and solemnly nods, "His condition isn't improving. I've worked with dementia patients before, so I'm pretty used to this, but..." He trails off and clears his throat.
Francesca faintly sighs, "I understand. How long do you think he has left?"
"I'm not a doctor, miss. I just take care of the man's daily needs and...other stuff. I'll do my best for him, you have my word."
She gives him a pat on the shoulder, tightly smiles, and takes her leave. While walking away, tears of blood roll down her cheeks. She quickly wipes them off and hurries down the block, not wishing to draw attention to herself.
Since Francesca has time, she decides to swing by her old place of work and see how it has been redone, remodeled, and spruced up for the modern era. She first started working there shortly after arriving to the United States of America.
Giordano had set her up with a fake identity and provided her with enough financial assistance to keep afloat for a good while. He'd also assist in helping her swap out IDs whenever the heat got too high. She's been using different names and aliases for the past few decades, too.
But she will always be Francesca Livroni of the Clan of Death.
It goes without saying, but Giordano's assistance wasn't done out of boundless benevolence. He was an Elder of fairly low Humanity, and lower scruples. And he extended his "assistance" to any and all of his fellow Hecata, whether they wished to accept it or not.
A great many of them were refugees in a foreign land; some of them didn't even speak a lick of English- Fran herself barely did when she first got to this country. Others were simply struggling with the new jobs that they had no other choice but to take.
All the while, Giordano would either stand by and watch them struggle or offer a "charitable" hand that always came at a steep, steep cost.
Francesca stands in front of the Cielo Blu Restaurant. To her, it almost feels like she was still working here just last night- the rolling decades of time are a mere blip to someone with eternal Unlife.
She cranes her neck and gazes at the building, studying the changes- quite the stark contrast from the sleek, retro aesthetic they used to have! The stucco seems to be the same, however.
Well, the time for reminiscing is up. Her actual job now calls to her. It is a nightly thing, and the hours and timings are remarkably flexible. As is the pay. And better yet, that old bastard Giordano had absolutely nothing to do with it.
Back at Pluto Enterprises...
Some of Lena's co-workers are still lurking and lingering about the place. They work overtime or hope to get noticed "working overtime".
Heh.
Gary uses a toothpick to pick his teeth. He flicks it into the dustbin, wipes his hands with a tissue, and trudges out into the main hallway. He nods at the armed guards and takes the steps down to the ground floor of this grand structure.
While at the ground floor, he takes a look around and heads towards the service lift. What's he up to?
The crowd of workers outside is gradually thinning out as people clamber into their vehicles and drive off to Caine knows where. Gary jabs his thumb into the elevator button and the door dings open.
Yet again, he looks over his shoulders to ensure that he isn't being watched. Good- no one seems to care. The bossman steps inside the service elevator. The doors hiss shut.
As he's rumbling down the shaft, he looks up at the dome-shaped surveillance cam and singsongs something or the other which he may have heard on a cartoon once.
The camera follows him as he keeps his eyes trained on its blinking red light. The elevator descends for about five whole floors. It then grinds to a stop.
Balaclava-wearing security personnel holding fully automatic SMGs and assault rifles are standing around the area. There are also some scientists and lab-coated technicians working on various machines and equipment.
The guards stop the bossman and ask to see his ID.
Gary complies by producing his company-issued badge, which the guards scrutinize closely. They curtly nod and hand it back to him once they're satisfied that he is, indeed, who he says he is.
A researcher with messy corkscrew curls accosts Gary and asks him, "Sir, sir! I--I heard that there was a leak earlier this morning? But--"
Gary holds up a finger, "We've dealt with it. You know, you people ought to work on containment a lot better than you do."
The scientist angrily squawks, "But--but Mr. Stuttgart, I was told that--"
Gary sighs and quickens his pace, but the scientist adamantly continues to follow him, "But it genuinely came as a surprise to us all. I mean, Post-Life Entities don't normally--"
The bossman shakes his head from side to side, "I don't wanna hear your excuses- I'm tired and it's been a long day. Go back to doing whatever it is you're supposed to be doing. Which is finding better containment protocols...or so I'd hope."
The scientist quietly mumbles, "Yes, Mr. Stuttgart," and slinks off to join their fellow smart people.
It's eerily cold and sterile down here. The walls are a dull shade of gray and there are numerous scratch marks on the floor. Some of the lights are flickering and others are completely dead.
The multicolored pipes on the walls pump strange fluids, and the ventilation fans hum as they work on full blast. Almost every door is locked and has a minimum of three guards (armed to the teeth) posted in front.
Gary sighs heavily as he stops by an office door on the farthest end of...wherever this place is. Whatever this place is, to be honest. He raps his knuckles on the shiny metal door. A deep and masculine voice inside beckons him to come in.
Gary straightens himself out, checks his tie, brushes his thumb against his mustache, and enters the office with his back slightly arched and his shoulders squared.
A well-built, square-jawed, decidedly middle-aged man with fair skin, dark hair, ocean-blue eyes, and chiseled features is sitting on an ornate desk in front of an array of screens that are displaying all sorts of data and graphs and such.
His three-piece suit is nothing short of immaculate. Custom-made by Italy's finest sartorial minds, as he is oft wont to boast. He's got a smooth voice, calm and cool demeanor, and a clean-shaven face.
He exudes the kind of intensity befitting of his position- the man in charge, the head honcho, the big cheese.
The CEO of Pluto Enterprises himself. Yet, he is also so much more than that, if he ever felt like bragging. And he has been known to do that quite a bit in the past.
The CEO gets up, walks up to his underling (heh), and shakes his hand firmly, "Gary...Gary...Gary. Tell me that you have this situation under control?"
Gary dutifully nods, "Yes, Mr. Blackwell. I've spoken to the employee, and she won't be making any--any waves, sir. But she--"
Dan Blackwell holds up a finger. An expensive ring with a gemstone glints on it. Gary immediately shuts up and awaits his superior to say something.
Dan turns on his heels and returns to his seat behind the desk. He sits back down and steeples his fingers together. He silently nods over to the swiveling chair right opposite him.
Gary takes a seat and continues, "She did get those emails, and she did read through them. The subsequent cleanup ensured that--"
Dan leans back into his own seat and murmurs, "It's all in the report, Stuttgart. No need to go over it again. I just wanna know one thing."
"Sir?"
"Should I send a team to have Lena...Adams/Akira neutralized? Is she a threat to our...delicate operations?"
Gary gasps and emphatically shakes his head, "No! Not at all, s--sir! She's a--a valued employee. Our recruitment team poached her straight out of Indiana State University. She started off as an intern! Her first-ever job outta college was here. In the company."
Dan adds, "For Pluto Enterprises. Not for the Orpheus Group. We've been...we've been lax, haven't we?"
Gary points out, "Well, sir, in all fairness, we weren't expecting a--a uh...ghost to gain control of a computer and send an email containing classified Orpheus Group data to the email account of an employee of one of our many front-facing subsidiary companies, s--sir."
Dan begrudgingly agrees, "Yes, yes, you're correct. We have ourselves a very mischievous ghost in the machine. I'll let the Projectors do their thing in containing this mess- better to give them a wide, wide berth, hmm?"
"Yes, sir."
The bigger bossman regards the smaller bossman with a cold, hard stare. Gary gulps and shivers in fear. Dan prods, "Why the long face, huh?"
Gary sighs, "Lena Adams has asked for--for a raise, sir."
Dan intones, "Has she, now? Huh. So far, intelligence reports don't seem to indicate any kind of...collaboration between Ms. Adams/Akira and the PLE. You're certain that you closed off all avenues of curiosity that might've bubbled up within her mind?"
Gary replies, "If she tries anything, we could sue her into the ground. Or gently remind her of the many clauses in her contract. But let's not get ahead of ourselves. She's a...valuable employee."
Mr. Blackwell blithely asks, "Why?"
"Err...for certain...diversity...err...quota reasons, I suppose. And she's been with us for quite a while, too. She knows the ins and outs of PE pretty well, sir. I'd rather not resort to drastic measures. And the costs of recruiting and training somebody from scratch far outweigh the benefits, as my last email's CB analysis clearly demonstrates."
The bigger bossman nods approvingly, "Hmm, yes, I saw that- as did the Board. Excellent work. We really loved your creative use of colors. Heh. How does Lena help further our diversity goals?"
Gary explains, "Well, she is part Japanese. Our investigation into her reveals that her father- Yoshiro Akira- was very much in the corporate environment before ill health forced him to retire early."
Dan lazily waves a hand, "We have plenty of Asian Americans working for us, Gary. What makes Lena so...extra special?"
Gary isn't too sure what he's driving at. He nervously shuffles around in his seat and racks his brain for an answer.
"I know that you know the answer. But I wanna hear you say it. Go on. No one's gonna sue us for saying the wrong words or something."
Sweat beads on Gary's forehead. He slowly wipes it away and says, "I'd rather...not."
"Why? It's not like it's a wrong thing. C'mon, let's have some fun, huh? Just a bunch of execs kicking back and shooting the shit. We'll retain Lena until we can't or someone...better comes along. So, what makes her...extra special, hmm?"
Gary lowers his head and mutters, "She is a lesbian- out and--and proud."
"Exactly. See, that wasn't so hard, was it? Nothing wrong with being...different. It's not because we care, mind you. It's because we can use people like her to the max. Everyone comes with an expiry date...so, you gotta make the most of 'em while they're still useful."
A predatory smile creeps up Dan's lips. His pearly teeth glimmer in the dim office light. His brown hair shows signs of graying on the sides.
Gary rubs the base of his neck and nervously prods, "And--and what about our own expiry dates, s--sir?"
Mr. Blackwell clicks his tongue, "We got different roles in corporate America, Gary. Guys like you and me? We got all the time in the world to make our marks- so long as we play by the rules, of course. The rules that we...write, the parameters that we...define." A sly smile spreads across his face.
Gary gulps and nods, "Uh-huh. Sure, sure. So, it's just a box-ticking exercise with people like Lena, right?"
The CEO shrugs indifferently, "It sure is. You know what, for next year's pride parade, we'll look into sponsoring something. Something with glitter, maybe, hmm? If Lena's still with us, put her in the front, blast her airbrushed picture all over our websites and social media pages. Heh-heh."
Gary's eyes dart around as he struggles to find the right thing to say in response, "That uh...sounds reasonable, sir. A bit cynical, sure, but very...reasonable."
Mr. Blackwell waggles a finger, "It's about checking those boxes, Gary. I want this little indiscretion- this little kerfuffle- buried deep. Do you understand me?"
"Yes. But Lena is quite insistent on that raise."
"Most I'll authorize is a one-time bonus, maybe throw in a few free tickets to some WNBA games, hahahahaha!"
Gary awkwardly chuckles along, "Yeah, haha! Do you mind if I ask about the PLE--"
Dan firmly interjects, "It'll be contained. It won't be sending any more emails out anytime soon. Don't worry. You just do your thing topside and leave us mole people to our own devices. But we all know who's really on top." He chuckles at the end.
Gary tightens his tie and nervously nods, "Of--of course, sir. And the Board--?"
"The Orpheus Board is only interested in one thing. And if you went to business school- like I did- then you'd know exactly what I'm talking about, eh?"
"Maximizing shareholder value," Gary regurgitates like the good little cog in the machine that he is.
Dan points a finger at him and winks, "Bingo. And I've got myself a helluva payout by the time this year draws to a close. Hey, you try running two whole companies from under the ground and tell me how it feels, hmm?"
Mr. Stuttgart notes, "The front-facing subsidiaries are absolutely necessary to further our...expansion and...keep Orpheus safe from competitors, rival Projection Firms, and the law, of course." He even throws in a little laugh.
"What rivals? We've either flattened 'em or bought 'em all out. The law's on our side- always has been. No, what we do here...all that stuff with the dead...that's what we need to keep hidden."
Dan leans forward, placing his hands on the edge of his desk, "The front-facing subsidiaries serve many purposes. Recruitment numbers are down, Gary. The Board wants 'em up. Poaching universities is not exactly yielding the desired results. We wanna get 'em younger."
"Wha...?"
"Relax. We've got some pilot programs in Canada targeting high schools. Our friends across the forty-ninth parallel will help us out- as long as we help them out, too. Mind you, this isn't for Orpheus; we're not seeking Projectionists. Yet. We're filling the other vacancies, and then some!"
Gary nods along as he does his best to keep up, "I see. Uh...this is news to me, sir. And what about finding competent Projectionists? How's that avenue of recruitment doing, Mr. Blackwell?" There's a bit of an edge to his voice.
"Eh, that's way beyond your paygrade. Heh. All I can say is that we've got feelers out, and that we'll find our perfect people eventually. Yeah, eventually."
The CEO's bulky computer dings. He looks at the notification onscreen, then glances towards Gary. He trills his lips, "Ah, she's here. Our consultant. You're gonna wanna meet this one, Gary. She's an interesting lady. Oh...and...our shipments have FINALLY come through. Goddamn."
"Huh?"
Dan clicks his tongue and types something on his keyboard, "Cryogenic pods from our manufacturer in England. The company's called CODACORP in this funny city called Gloughchester. I went there for an investor and innovation summit back in 2009."
Gary timidly asks, "I...um...received a memo, an email about a--a lost shipment of Pigment? Should we be concerned, sir?"
Dan scratches his cheek, "Ah, nah, not really. If you're gonna do cocaine, just make sure it ain't black, OK? We'll cooperate with the MCPD's narcotics division to...either recover the Gunpowder or...make it disappear."
"Hopefully not into people, sir."
"Oh, please. The investigation into how our stash of special drugs wound up in the wrong hands is still ongoing. No, I refuse to give further comment. Don't worry, once there's anything concrete to share, it will be sent to you and the other executives."
Gary stands up and futzes around with his tie, "Well, uh...let's go and meet this consultant of yours." He fidgets around as Dan stares at him unblinking for a few seconds.
Dan plainly puts in, "We're thinking of getting you people lanyards. Thoughts? It's for PE employees only. The geeks down here are afraid that they might get garroted by a PLE if they started running around with lanyards, hahaha!"
Gary shifts his feet and twists his neck from side to side, "Uhhh...that sounds like something that my people would like. Just...um...after we're done containing the email-sending PLE."
"Duly noted, c'mon. And lemme make the introductions, OK? She's Italian and I'm thinking of asking her out for...wine and cheese, heh-heh."
(!)
Francesca holds onto her Gucci purse while the same elevator that Gary came in begins to descend deep down to where all the "action" is. Yeah, she's a consultant for the Orpheus Group.
It'd be more accurate to call her a "Death Consultant". As Morbid as that sounds, it's pretty much on brand for, well, all the parties involved from the Hecata Clan to Orpheus itself.
The Orpheus Group bends and harnesses certain pliable ghosts (and other spooky entities) to something...profitable, something turned and more attuned towards the corporate will. The Hecata Clan- as a whole- are deeply invested in the works of this Projectionist Org.
While Dan walks with Gary, the latter insists, "Lena is--is a very devoted and dedicated employee. Firing or--or neutralizing her wouldn't be necessary, sir. She's deeply valuable to our surface-level program, s--sir."
Dan dryly replies, "The Board is still pretty pissed that private Orpheus correspondence accidently made its way into her inbox- they don't give a damn if a ghost sent the email. But you're right, she's been with us for...a long time. Straight outta college. And she interned with us, too. But...most I can do is a one-time bonus, got that?"
"Y--yeah, that would work. Yes--yes, sir." Gary sighs and sweats, hoping that Lena's situation isn't going to be blown out of proportion by the Board.
The elevator door hisses open. The armed guards stand aside and watch as Francesca casually strides through the place. The researchers nervously look towards Dan and Gary, trying their hardest not to ogle at the attractive Italian woman with her Gucci bag slung over her shoulder.
Dan spreads his hands out, "Miss Livroni! How wonderful to see you again!"
Francesca plainly greets him back, "Mister Blackwell. Please, call me Francesca."
"Of course, of course. Francesca. What a beautiful name...for a very...beautiful woman. Heh." He grins, hoping for a positive reaction, but the vampire simply stares at him, uninterested.
She stares at Gary and extends her cold hand as way of introducing herself. Gary shakily reciprocates, "Gary Stuttgart. P--pleased to meet you."
Dan sighs and explains, "Gary's the one running things topside. We had ourselves a little incident earlier today, BUT! All fixed now, eh? Heh."
Fran nods, "I will leave that in your capable hands. I am here to...help you with your problems, Mister Blackwell."
"Yes! And if there's anything that I could do for you, then..."
"You could show me to the usual room. I take it that it has been sterilized and cleaned thoroughly since my last visit?"
Dan gives her a thumbs-up, "It sure has. This way, please."
The trio walk on down the hallways. Francesca asks Gary, "Do you mind telling me about this problem of yours, Mister Stuttgart?"
Gary tugs on his collar, "Eh, it's honestly not worth going over. Just a--a PLE acting up. N--nothing serious."
"I insist on knowing."
Dan nudges Gary and fixes him with a pointed glare, as if using him as a proxy to, hopefully, impress the vampire lady. Gary sighs and reluctantly explains, "There was a breach involving one of our surface-level subsidiaries. A PLE had, somehow, managed to send an email containing sensitive Orpheus-related documents to an employee of...mine. You know how these...entities are."
Francesca hums, "Hmm. Always eager to cause mischief, no matter which dimension they inhabit. Yes, I am all too familiar with our...otherworldly friends."
The three of them share a hearty laugh as they reach the end of a particularly long hallway.
There are four security guards standing in front of this door, one of whom is carrying a pump-action shotgun. She's clad in body armor and is holding the weapon in a way that suggests experience with firearms.
Dan confidently waves his hand and they quickly step aside. They respectfully nod their heads at Francesca and mutter, "Miss. Good to see you again. Room's all yours."
"Grazie. Grazie."
Francesca steps into a spartan room. It has no windows and is decently lit. The temperature in here is eerily cold. Gary and Dan both shiver while the immortal chick barely registers the change in temperature.
In the middle of the room is a high-backed chair with a few scratch marks on it. Other than that, literally nothing else is in the room. It's empty. Francesca runs her finger across a wall and rubs it against her thumb, making a face when she notices some dust particles.
Her gloved hand tugs on the single chair in the center of the room. She adjusts its position, turning it so that it's facing away from the two guys in the room with her. She looks over her shoulder and requests some privacy.
Gary's eyebrows go up in surprise. Dan presses his lips into a thin line, nods, smiles a little, and leaves her be.
The door clicks shut. Gary nervously looks at the CEO.
The CEO glares back at the smalltime bossman, "What? We deal with restless ghosts- we get all kinds of strange stuff thrown our way. I don't know why you're acting so nervous, Gary. Now, c'mon, let's go check those cryogenic pods out- I wanna see if the Brits still make good shit."
Francesca demurely sits down on the chair. She sets the Gucci purse aside and places her hands on her lap. She straightens her back, shuts her eyes, and begins to channel trace amounts of her Vitae into her Necromancy Discipline.
(It's in the name).
The room around her closes in. The lighting erratically dims and brightens. The floor begins to rumble, but she stays focused on her task at hand.
Fran takes off her leather glove. Her sharp claws pop out, and she pokes her right index finger with a wince. A singular drop of Blood oozes out and drips onto the floor. One drop is all that is needed. In this instance, at least.
She closes her eyes and focuses her supernatural energies once more. Thousands upon thousands of faint whispers tickle her ears- and with vampiric super-senses, it can get pretty damn overwhelming, even for a somebody like her.
Francesca pushes her way through the restless dead as they try to trip her up and distract her with various pleas and demands.
"I just...I just wanna tell my wife that I love her. One--one more time," a sad-sounding man begs.
"Did--did I lock the door--no?! Yes?! FUCK! Did I lock my door?! That's--that's all I wanna know!"
"Is Mr. Wiggles OK? I don't trust my niece with Mr. Wiggles- that kid always had a glint in her eyes. And not the good kind."
"Why am I still stuck here?! WHHHHHHHY?!"
"Hey, hey, turn up the volume. I gotta know the scores. I gotta know if the team that I blew ten large on won or--or not! Turn up the volume. Uh...please??"
Francesca tightly grimaces and pushes past the incessant voices of the restless dead.
The number of souls within this facility alone is...mind-bogglingly staggering. Fran seeks out a particular person amongst the ranks of the departed. A person who is among those with...certain unfinished business.
It isn't long before a howling wind begins to fill the room. A tear opens up in the floor as a ghostly hand reaches through and grasps at Francesca's ankle. The vampire doesn't flinch or jump out of the chair- she is as calm and still as a corpse cucumber.
The hand looks translucent. The fingernails are manicured, not calloused, and a few shiny diamond bracelets adorn the wrist. A second hand emerges from the floor and clamps onto Francesca's knee.
Francesca keeps her eyes shut. The ghostly being grunts and groans as she tries to pull herself up. When she is finally present, the Necromancer slowly opens her eyes. Her blurry vision takes a few seconds to adjust to the abrupt shift in lighting and atmosphere.
When her senses return to normal, she's met with the sight of an incredibly pretty young woman- early twenties, round face, full cheeks, graceful smile, smooth complexion, bright red lips, and sparkling eyes.
Her translucence, not withstanding, Francesca is taken aback by just how pretty this ghost still is.
The ghost's hollow voice echoes throughout the chamber, "Did--did you find my stashes?"
Fran greets her with a nod, "I did, yes." She holds up the Gucci purse and gestures to it.
The dead socialite smiles a little, "Good, good. I--I see that you've helped yourself to it. But don't help yourself to ALL of it, OK?"
"Yes. Of course. What you are doing is...admirable. I will be sure to distribute your stashed items to those who truly need them."
"T--thank you, Francesca. Thank you."
The ghostly being standing in front of the vampire was once a wealthy (and shallow) socialite who eventually overdosed on OxyContin and died in her sleep. Her life was so empty, so shallow, and utterly devoid of any meaning.
She had stashed certain valuable items all over this Domain- designer clothing, trinkets worth a lot of $$$$$, handbags, cash, and shit like that.
Francesca, for her part, is here to get the lowdown on ALL of this lady's stashes and hopefully put the contents therein to better use than she ever could.
It's not about exploiting this soul. And said departed soul is pretty keen on doing some semblance of good now that she has all eternity to ponder upon the shallowness of her life. Whether it'll actually fix a thing remains to be seen.
"Thank you again for all that you have done for me, Francesca. Please, please ensure that my stuff is put to better use, OK?"
"I will do my best," the Hecata vampire equably answers. And she does intend to follow up on her promise. That cash that she gave to Sal's caretaker was just a small portion of this ghost socialite's stash.
And there's gotta be plenty of needy people out there who would greatly appreciate a thousand bucks right about now. Yep, she stashed large sums of money away. Why is anyone's guess. Perhaps the ghost was afraid of losing her wealth in one way or another.
Francesca inquires, "Why did you do all of these? Would if not have been easier for you to simply write a check to a charity of some kind?"
The socialite responds, "When I was...not dead, I was a--a party girl. Morning, afternoon, evening, and night. Shots, cocaine, parties, other...stuff, you name it, I was into it."
"Hmm. Yes. You were very popular among your social circles. I was recently looking at your Instagram profile. You should know that many of those whom you called as your 'friends' do not even miss you- they have forgotten about you. You might as well have not existed at all in the eyes of your 'friends'."
The spectral entity lowers her head in shame. Something resembling tears stream down her ghostly face. She shrugs, "Yeah, I--I guess you're right. But it's too darn late for me to--to fix anything now, right?"
"Yes. And I am sorry. But you...had so much when so many had so little. And all you could think about was making these stashes like it was all some kind of game to you. Why? What reason could you have for doing such things?"
"It's all I knew. I...my daddy and mom always told me that taxes were--were a form of theft, a way for the government to steal money from honest, smart, and--and talented people like us. And they'd steal that money and give it to--to...lesser people."
Francesca shakes her head, disgusted with what she is hearing, "You truly have no idea of the suffering that people are going through, do you?"
"I...went to Africa for a photo op. My uncle's PR firm said it'd be good for my image. Does that count?"
"No. It doesn't. What I want to know is WHY did you keep these items instead of putting them to use for some good?"
The ghost's shrug comes off as slow and sluggish, "It felt...good? It felt...funny? I was gonna send a friend of mine on, like, this scavenger hunt. Or maybe I would start my own, like, YouTube channel or--or reality TV series where you have to find...my stuff!"
Francesca pinches the bridge of her nose and lets out a long sigh, "That is not how these things work. Hmph, never mind. What do you wish for me to do with the remaining items of your stash? And you must tell me where the remaining items are, I do not like this...this scavenger hunt."
The ghostly being looks around the empty chamber for a few seconds before her shoulders droop, "Um...c'mon, I--I thought it'd be more fun if I drip-fed the information to ya...rather than just dump it all on you at--at once."
"If that is your wish...but this Gucci bag is mine; I like it. Everything else I will gladly distribute to those in need."
The socialite shrugs, "OK. How has my family reacted to my...death?"
Francesca looks at the ground and the single drop of Blood that she used to summon this spirit, "They...cremated you--"
"WHAT?!"
The lights violently flicker. The room rumbles and shakes. The guards posted outside jump in fright. They clutch their weapons a little tighter and shoot each other furtive glances- should they bust in or wait outside here?
Francesca maintains her composure. The ghost, on the other hand, shrieks and wails, "WHAT DO YOU MEAN THEY CREMATED ME?!"
Fran stands up from the chair and begins to chant something in Italian. The ghost violently hisses, "YOU DIDN'T FUCKING ANSWER MY QUESTION! BITCH! BITCH! BITCH! BITCH! BITCH!"
The Necromancer keeps up her chanting and gestures at the spirit with a wave of her hand. The ghost shrieks louder, her wailing echoing throughout the room. Her voice becomes so shrill and ear-piercing that a few alarms from beyond the closed door are being set off.
The guards gulp and take a few steps back, but their fingers are right on the triggers of their respective firearms. Like that'll do a fucking thing to stop an incorporeal entity.
Francesca glowers daggers at the ghostly being and doubles her efforts, muttering and chanting louder. The being wails and darts around the place, her body leaving blurry trails as she goes from corner to corner of this room, desperately searching for a means of escape.
She tries to shoulder-bash the only door leading in and out of this room, but all it does is make the metal reverberate like a gong.
Francesca digs her claw deep into her wrist, violently twists it, and lets some of her Vitae pool on the floor. The creature's shrieks stop and she turns her full and undivided attention to the vampire. The lights flicker and go out completely, but the emergency red lights immediately kick in and bathe the chamber in their eerie glow.
The ghost growls and heaves with rage as she menacingly floats towards the Hecata. Francesca ceases her chanting and confidently strides towards the ghost. The vampire bares her fangs at the fuming socialite.
A hiss escapes from the ghost's mouth, "NO! NO! I--I thought that they'd preserve my body cryogenically! NOOOOOOOO! They promised! Daddy promised to freeze me if I ever died! Mom said that they'd at least freeze my head!!!! They spent millions--"
Francesca firmly commands, "Be gone to where you now belong! I cannot speak to you like this; I CANNOT deal with you when you are in such a state!"
"B--B--Bitch!"
"BEGONE!"
The ghost whimpers and ducks behind the chair, quivering with fear, "I'm..."
"GO! When you have calmed, then we shall speak again! Until then...go. NOW!"
The dead socialite hisses and is soon sucked back into the very same gaping tear in the floor. Numerous howls and growls emanate from it before it seals itself shut. Fran stands over the spot and sighs deeply. She places her hands on her hips and stares at the ground for a few seconds.
After gathering her thoughts, Francesca picks up the Gucci bag and walks towards the door with her head held high. She knocks on it a few times. The guards give her a once-over to ensure that she isn't possessed or anything before letting her out.
The shotgunner chick nervously asks, "Miss, h--how did it go in there? We--we were concerned that you may have been compromised. Wouldn't be the first time that someone went in normal and emerged completely taken over by...y'know..."
"No, no, everything is fine," the Italian vampire reassures her, "just a little bit of a tantrum, that is all. Grazie."
The Orpheus guards nod at her and step aside. Dan approaches her with outstretched arms, "Ah, you are back! Wonderful!"
Out of concern, he asks, "I got notified of some alarms getting tripped. I was this close to sending a tac team in to pull you out and subdue the...ghost, if need be."
Francesca shakes her head and smiles, "There is no need for that. I am fully capable of handling myself in any given situation, Mr. Blackwell. Please, wait for a few hours before sending people in there to sterilize the room. Lingering energies of the deceased can remain present for quite some time."
"Duly noted. Now, why don't we go to my office, hmm?"
"OK. And where is Gary?"
Dan walks a little faster, "He had to get home to his family. Oh, boy, am I glad to be...a bachelor again. An eligible bachelor." He's hinting at something.
The Necromancer faintly chuckles, "Hm. I noticed the prominent tan line on your ring finger, Mr. Blackwell. I am sorry for your loss."
"What? No. I--it was a divorce. Although, I wouldn't have minded if my now-ex-wife...ya know? And that's quite perceptive of you, noticing such things."
"It is not good to wish for such things on other people, no matter who they are or what they've done."
Dan awkwardly clears his throat chuckles, "Haha. Y--yeah. C'mon, let's talk business, hmm?"
Francesca sits on a chair. Dan sits on the edge of his desk (yikes) and looks down at her, "Did it all go well in there?"
"Sì. Are there any more restless spirits that you want me to speak with in this facility?"
He shrugs, "Nah, just the one for tonight. Her dad and mom aren't just clients of ours- they're investors, too. And not small-time chump change, mind you. So, we...uh...kinda wanna stay in their good graces for as long as we can."
"Hmm. And those whose interests I represent want you to know that they shall continue to lend their support to the Orpheus Group...provided that you uphold your end of the bargain."
Dan smiles and claps his hands together, "Of course, of course! Always! Um...do you mind if I ask you something?"
Francesca motions for him to speak his mind, "Please do, I will try to answer as best I can."
Mr. Blackwell directly asks, "Are you free for a drink? Coffee, wine, water, milkshake, it doesn't matter."
Francesca's face tics and she straightens her back a little more, "I--I apologize, Mr. Blackwell, but I have other obligations to tend to this night."
"Ah, c'mon, it's just one drink. I'll buy."
Francesca musters up a small smile and slowly gets out of her seat, "It is best if you did not do that. Sorry, I think I should be taking my leave now."
Dan desperately points out, "I--I'm divorced. It was as amicable as--as these things usually are. C'mon, you're single, I'm...also single. Let's go get a drink. Or maybe I could take you somewhere nice, hmm? No shortage of nice places in Magnolia City. What's your vibe, huh? Art gallery? Upscale lounge? An exclusive club?"
Francesca shakes her head, "Grazie, but no."
Dan sucks some air through his teeth and twiddles his thumbs together, "We've known each other for what, a few years now?"
"Mm-hmm."
"Your file doesn't mention any...special guy. Not--not that it's any of my business, of course. You came highly recommended to us from your...pals."
Francesca politely nods at him and keeps her distance, "Hmm. Yes. However, there is something that you should know about me."
Dan folds his arms and raises his eyebrows, "Oh? Oh, do tell."
Ms. Livroni plainly states, "I...go in the other direction, and only the other direction. If you are as educated as you are, then you will fully understand what I mean by that. And I'm not going to apologize for it."
Dan's lips form a round "O" shape before his face contorts with realization, "Ah...OK. I--I see. Wow. Whoa. Uh...I never clocked it. I--I mean, you don't seem...the type to uh--"
Francesca holds up a gloved finger, "Please, let us not discuss such things. I do not know you very well. It is a private matter and nobody else's concern. But I wanted to be honest and forthright with you. I suppose that there are other...interested people out there for you to try your luck with. Although, you might want to brush up on your..."
"Detection skills," Dan lamely murmurs.
"No. But I will leave you to your own devices, hmm? Buona notte (ITA: Goodnight)."
The Necromancer turns on her heel, winks, and leaves the office with a defeated and disappointed Mr. Blackwell leaning against his desk and shaking his head in dismay.
She lifts her chin, smirks a little, and casually sashays outta the underground Orpheus facility with a spring in her step. She fiddles with her leather glove while waiting for the elevator to make its way up to the ground floor.
Once she's out of the subterranean structure, the Hecata vampire takes a deep breath of the crisp night air and slowly exhales. It was quite stuffy down there in that room. But her...conversation with the ghost of the deceased socialite went decidedly well, all things considered.
For now, the Graverobber slowly walks to the subway station and decides to return to her Haven- it's been quite an eventful night so far.
(And it was about to get hella eventful in the nights to come!)
While Lena Adams is getting ready for bed (it's been a very long and taxing day!), her phone suddenly lights up, and the ringing soon follows. She sighs weakly and answers it, her tone sounding somewhat tired, "Hello, Lena speaking."
Elise shyly greets her, "Uh, hello...Lena?"
Lena rubs her tired eyes, "Oh, Elise. Hi. Hey. W--what's up?"
"I just wanted to thank you for, well..." Elise's voice fades away.
Lena gets what she's hinting at, "Yeah, I had a great time, too. But I dunno if things would've worked out between the two of us. And I'm not the type to lead people on for shits and giggles. You're nice and you're amazingly hot, but you--"
Elise sniffs, "I know, I know- I still haven't...moved on. It's not easy, you know."
"Grief was never meant to be easy, that's the whole point. You need time, you need space. I understand that. I get that. Believe me, I do. You're not ready. Not yet."
Elise weakly smiles, "Thank you for your candor. Can...can we at least remain friends? N--no sex, of course. Just friends."
Lena yawns and scratches her ear, "Um...sure, sure. We can work on that. Look, I don't mean to come off as rude, but it is in the middle of the night, and I've had a VERY long- and VERY stressful- day at work. So...can we catch up sometime later?"
Elise fervently nods, "Yes, yes. My--my bad. Sorry. I just wanted to properly know where we...stood after our...date. Your aptitude in the bedroom is quite extraordinary and--"
Lena cuts her off, "Yeah. I've been called remarkable before, heh. And you weren't too bad yourself. Goodnight, Elise. And...I do sincerely hope that you find your happiness, joy, and fulfillment one day. But that's not gonna come from me OR be me, for that matter. But we can try to be friends...without the benefits, of course."
"I understand. Yes, friends without THOSE kinds of benefits, haha! Goodnight, Lena," Elise softly whispers and hangs up.
Lena blows a raspberry and sets her phone aside. She flops into bed, pulls the blanket up over her, and rolls over onto her side. Sleep eventually finds the PI.
As per usual, her dreaming involves her being thrown into that infinitely endless ocean. She sinks deeper and deeper into this body of water. Yet, the drowning sensation doesn't fully consume her at all. But she is still afraid. Afraid of what or who, though?
She is unsure.
Chapter Five: Falsehoods
The sun rises and the Kindred in this part of the wide world begin to fall to their day-slumbering. The Childer of the night will have to remain hidden until the next sunset. Their bodies enter a near-Torpid state as they lay motionless and silent, like corpses.
The daylight hours will pass 'em by.
Francesca goes as still as the grave. Her chest doesn't rise or fall. Her eyes are closed and a relatively serene expression plays across her pale face. A few strands of blonde hair hang across her cheeks.
The searing light of the sun is blocked out by curtains and thick drapes that cover every single window in her Haven.
Lena, a mere mortal (for now), wakes up with a start a few hours later. It's a brand new, bright, and sunny Tuesday morning. Her eyes dart around the room for a few moments before her heartbeat calms itself down.
That infinite drowning-not-drowning dream always sets her on edge. She should see a therapist (or trained expert) about it, but...well...work. And mental healthcare is NOT covered under Lena's insurance plan, so she'll have to fork out the money to pay for therapy sessions if she wants to pursue it.
Lena sheds her clothing and steps into the shower. Her jet-black hair is soaked within seconds. She uses plenty of soap to scrub away all the dirt, grime, and sweat. As usual, the hot water turns lukewarm by the time the gumshoe is done cleaning herself.
While she wraps the towel around her naked body and heads back into her bedroom, she tells herself, "Tuesdays. Not as bad as Mondays. Just work, work, work, work, and more work."
She snickers and adds, "And an equal amount of coffee to go along with that. Heh."
As for Tyler's case, the most logical thing to do is to expand the search- somebody (or something) is bound to have seen something, namely the car that hit the poor child and left him to die on a street in Magnolia City.
The PI will dutifully poke around. But she's also got other cases on her plate as well; some people are paying decent bucks for her services. It's mainly tailing spouses who may or may not be cheating on their partners. Or looking into whether or not their children are messing with drugs or boozing.
Or fooling around.
Miss Adams swings by GROUND BEANZ for a cuppa coffee and a quick bite to give her energy to face the long day ahead. From there, it's a fairly simple walk to Crystal Street Station.
The train came one minute late. Lena shakes her head and steps aboard it, lightly jostled by the movement of the vehicle as it departs the station.
While sitting on a relatively clean seat, Lena taps her foot incessantly while she waits. She pulls out her phone and Googles: "Thrown into ocean infinitely falling dream meaning."
The results are...decidedly mixed (and this was before Google's somewhat annoying AI overview thing!). Some say that it symbolizes something bad happening in the near future, while others state that it's about a person's fears or some such. A few claim that it corresponds to feeling overwhelmed or scared.
She taps on the first link on the first page and starts to read the text aloud under her breath, "'Perhaps you are struggling with an area of your life and are drowning in the turmoil surrounding said area.' Wow, real helpful."
As the train chugs along, she keeps reading this short article while taking sips of her piping hot coffee. It goes on to suggest that she should try to gain a better understanding of her fears and what's causing her to feel overwhelmed.
"Yeah, no shit. If only I could actually afford something like that..." she quietly mutters, still skimming through the text.
When the train stops at the intended destination, Lena sighs, stands up, and makes her way out of the train and onto the platform. The underground air is cool and damp, but it smells kinda stale.
She quickens her pace and is soon going up the glass elevators that lead to the Pluto Enterprises office on the second floor. She admires the interior of the building (and its amazing atrium) through the glass panes, smiling to herself all the while.
"You don't always get a view like this," she tells the bored-looking intern standing apart a few feet from her.
The college kid nods politely and wordlessly. His suit looks quite oversized, and he keeps readjusting his tie. The young man is obviously new on the job and is still trying to earn his place in the big wide world of...whatever it is he's doing.
Lena passes the security check and gets ready for work. She can feel the eyes of her co-workers burrowing into the back of her head as she logs into her terminal and sees if there are any new messages for her in her inbox.
After yesterday's eventful events, everyone in PE is a bit on edge today. Still, Lena puts on a brave front which convinces everybody that everything is normal, although her co-workers aren't wholly buying it.
Some give her a wide berth or outright avoid her as though she were oozing infectious gas from every pore of her skin. Many others, however, are more sympathetic and kinder, wishing her well and saying that they hope she'll have a great day at work today.
Lena goes about her day job. When it's time for lunch, she heads downstairs and walks past numerous kiosks, pop-up stands, and vending machines before settling on buying herself a chicken sandwich from a bakery.
It comes packaged in a transparent container. She sits by a fountain and begins to eat. Her amber eyes scan the area for any familiar faces, but none stand out in the crowd. A half-consumed cup of coffee is beside her, slowly going cold as the minutes pass by.
The sammich is adequate, if a little cold. She tosses the empty and crumb-filled container into the colored bin, stands up, dusts off her pants, and goes to the bathroom to freshen herself up a little. She checks her teeth and her makeup, then heads back up to the second floor.
As she's about to step inside, a call comes in on her phone. Lena sees the caller ID and answers it, "Toby?"
"Hi--hi. Are you free to talk right now?"
Lena leans against a wall and looks at her co-workers who are going in and out of the office, "Sure. What's going on?"
Toby nervously replies, "It's Eddie. I--I'm kinda worried about him."
Lena's brows knit together in a frown of concern, "Did something happen to him?"
Toby takes a deep breath, "Well...he's been...showing off a lot lately. I dunno where- or how- he gets all of this cash from. He won't tell me. I--I think he might be into some stuff, ya know? I don't wanna say or--or assume anything nasty or unpleasant, but I'm concerned for him. I mean, we're best friends and all, and I just wanna look out for him."
Lena sighs, "Have you tried speaking to him about it and asking how he suddenly got a ton of cash?"
"Oh, I have, yeah. He just dismisses me and brushes me off. Sound familiar?"
Lena clicks her tongue, "Seriously? Look, I have work to do and I really should be getting back to it, alright?"
Toby desperately asks, "What should I do? I have to work with him at the garage day in and day out, y'know? I dunno how much longer I can just pretend that nothing's wrong. Every time I look into his eyes, I get the impression that he's hiding something huge from me...from US!"
Lena rubs the base of her neck and dryly smiles at a passing co-worker, "Listen, I'm gonna try and see what I can do, alright? I'll speak to him. But I can't make any promises- I'm just too busy right now."
Toby stammers, "And p--please leave my name outta this, alright? I don't want him to know that I...that I told you, ya know?"
"I won't. Don't worry."
"Have a great rest of the afternoon, Lena!!"
"Hm. You too, Toby. You too. Bye," Lena ends the call and shakes her head in dismay. She blows a raspberry as the questions begin to swell up in her mind. They swirl around up in her noggin along with all the other queries, doubts, suspicions, and concerns.
She slowly makes her way back to her desk and settles into her chair. The afternoon sun bathes the city in a yellow-white glow. People hurry to their homes, streetcars move at a snail's pace, and trains come and go.
If Ms. Adams has time, then she'll see what can be done about Eddie, but nothing beyond that, of course. As far as the PI is concerned, the guy probably broke his piggy bank open or saved up and is now spending it all on...whatever.
But a part of her is, admittedly, quite curious to know where all the money is coming from and how Eddie has been managing to spend so much so quickly.
This is just another task piled on top of her (already) mountainous list of to-dos and chores, however, and Lena isn't even getting paid to figure out the mystery behind Eddie's sudden influx of cold, hard cash.
By four forty-seven, Lena sluggishly stands up from her chair, gathers her belongings, and bids a good day to everyone who isn't actively ignoring or avoiding her. Tight smiles and waves come her way as she struts past everyone and eventually steps outside and onto the streets of the city.
Gary, her boss, walks past her. He's holding a messy toothpick in between his index finger and thumb.
Lena glares at him, "I'm done for the day."
Gary awkwardly shuffles on his feet and nods, "Yeah, sure. H--have a great evening. And uh...see you tomorrow!" He walks off with an anxious bounce to his step.
Lena clears her throat and turns towards him. She stares at the back of his shiny head, "About that raise?"
Gary stiffens and spins on his heel, "Uh--yeah. I'm still in talks w--with the relevant higher-ups. Make sure that you formally apply with HR for a raise, OK?"
Corporate speak for, "Fuck off, you're not getting it. Keep slogging away at the job or you'll be fired."
Lena presses her luck, "Am I or am I not a highly skilled and valuable asset to Pluto Enterprises?"
Gary nervously chews on the messy end of his toothpick and evasively answers, "Y--you are! Of course! But this is a highly competitive company. And there are a dime-a-dozen people out there who are more than happy to work for what we pay them."
Ms. Adams counters, "C'mon, Gary, thirty thousand dollars a year is--is hardly gonna make anyone happy, especially in this city. I don't know anyone who'd work for that kind of money. Most of the kids here are fresh outta college and are already mired in debt."
She steps closer to him, her gaze piercing and intense, "Prices have shot up like crazy, rents are insanely high, and a lotta people are struggling to stay afloat. I honestly don't know how I do it sometimes...I need that raise."
Gary gulps and intones, "The employee handbook expressly forbids discussions of compensations outside of a--a workplace setting." To reinforce his silly point, he gestures to the bustling city around them.
Lena grits her teeth, "Then why don't we have this discussion back inside, hmm?"
The bossman takes his toothpick out of his mouth, shrugs, and chuckles weakly, "We--we already did. And I said that I'm looking into it on your behalf. In the meantime, file the required paperwork- if we have a record of this, it'll go over a whole lot smoother. Trust me."
The PI sighs, "OK...but if I don't see anything by the end of this week--"
Gary sternly warns her, "Miss Adams...Lena, we already have you snooping through certain information that you had no business seeing, and the higher-ups aren't particularly happy with that little unfortunate...eh...screw-up. Go down this path, and your future here at PE will be very...unpleasant."
Lena narrows her eyes, "Is that a threat, Gary? It was just a bunch of stupid emails with even stupider mumbo-jumbo laced throughout. You're talking about it like it's some classified shit. Wait...is it? What...what 'Beach' are we 'On'??"
Gary's face tics and he quickly snaps, "It's nothing. It's nothing, alright? Drop this, please just...just...drop it. You should still be glad that you--you have a job after what happened yesterday, and that you'll continue to be employed in the foreseeable future. But only if you keep your nose out of places it doesn't belong."
Lena points out, "I'm a fucking Private Investigator. If I did that, I'd be a disgrace to the profession! Look, I want the raise, and you know damn well that I deserve it. I've been here since graduating!"
Gary removes his glasses and rubs the bridge of his nose, "Look, Miss Adams, this has gone on for too long. We'll look into your raise."
He jabs her shoulder with his index finger, "And you don't get to set the ultimatums around here. Do your job properly, and if we think you've earned a raise, you'll get one. You've been around long enough to know how these things work; I shouldn't have to remind you of this."
Lena gives up, sighs, wordlessly nods, and goes on her way. Gary heads back inside the building.
The PI heads to her PI office, pushes the door open, and plops down in her chair. She throws her bag and coat aside, rubs her face, groans, and spins around in circles, trying to burn off her frustrations.
"Ah, shit. I need some coffee if I'm gonna get through the rest of the evening...now, let's see what I can cross off the list..."
The sun soon begins its grandiose descent. The purple-orange skies soon turn into an ominous dark blue. The Kindred of this Domain begin to stir awake, their Beasts ravenous with the eternal Hunger.
And there is very little choice but to slake the thirst lest the Beast takes over and slakes it without any regard for niceties, secrecy, discretion, or making sure that the victim is still breathing at the end of it all.
Amos Greenberg resides in a duplex industrial loft-styled penthouse near the city's outskirts. Gray walls, black railings, drab floors, and off-white furniture create an odd yet functional design.
The False Assamite is busy doing push-ups in his home gym- a massive room with its own aircon system, bulletproof glass windows, and a bunch of state-of-the-art training equipment.
The shirtless man grunts with effort as his strong arms flex and strain, his dead green eyes locked onto the floor as watery blood drips down his forehead and falls onto the black mat beneath.
His muscles twitch as he lifts himself off of the ground and then pushes himself back up again and again and again and again. A few more droplets of blood-sweat trickle down his face, but the vampire doesn't even pause his exercise.
Amos growls, bares his fangs, and keeps going. Once he's done with that, he springs up with a preternatural speed. He ducks, leaps, twists, flips, and somersaults his way through the home gym, being careful not to overturn any of his precious equipment.
He picks up a big barbell, sits on the edge of an adjustable gym bench, and starts doing his reps, moving the weighted thing up and down as he grunts and strains. Amos tightly holds onto it with his hand. His arms are bulging with exertion.
The vampire muscle man grits his teeth and keeps going, pushing through the pain and agony that comes with working out like a madman. After a few minutes of this, he puts the barbell back in its place and wipes himself with a clean towel.
He grimaces at how bloody it looks, "Wow. Every single liquid in our body. Blood. Even those ones. Ah, you are what you eat. Never forget that."
Amos wraps some elastic bands around his knuckles and begins punching a sandbag suspended by a sturdy chain in the corner of the room, making sure that he maintains the correct posture as he delivers blow after powerful blow.
The chain itself rattles with each severe punch that the vamp lands on the sturdy bag. It wouldn't be the first time that Mr. Greenberg has smacked the bag right outta the chain and spilled its contents onto the floor.
"One...two...three...four...grrrrrah...five...grrrrrrhgh...six...hrrrrrr...seven...haaaaaaarrhhg...eight...nine...grrrr...ten! From the top...ten...grrrrfgh...nine...eight...seven...six...hffffrghgh...five...four...three...whoo...two...yeah...one!"
Muscle man does that at least five more times, each time the chain holding the bag slightly whining and getting ready to give way. Again.
Amos sighs with exhaustion and reaches does a few impromptu crunches. He drops to the floor and begins doing it. All the while, no breath comes in or out of his mouth- his lungs aren't working and don't have to.
Before he's about to shove his earphones into his ears and do a few minutes of weight-lifting, the doorbell rings- it's a loud and grating sound that echoes throughout his Haven.
He stands up and heads over to his closet while yelling, "Just a sec!" He puts on a fresh gray shirt, tosses the towel into a hamper, runs a hand through his blonde hair, and goes to see who the nocturnal visitor is.
A brunette woman of average height stands at the door, dressed in an off-black t-shirt and skinny jeans. A nice brown purse is slung over her right shoulder. She looks to be in her indeterminate twenties, sports a few spots on her pale cheeks, and has brown eyes that are devoid of warmth, let alone life.
Amos silently nods his head in greeting and lets her step inside.
Her oval-shaped face is expressionless. Her (somewhat) frizzy hair looks like it has been recently straightened. Her lips are as dry as a desert.
Amos claps her on the back and pulls her in for a side-hug, "Allie! Long time, no see, huh?"
Allison Moretta (or Morenstein) is also a Bnei Hashem. Like Amos, she vehemently denies her Banu Haqim heritage, instead favoring the made-up Jewish supremacist bullshit. She hails from Israel and moved to the States not that long ago (at least in Kindred terms).
As the two make their way deeper inside the Haven, Allison responds flatly, "Shalom, Amos. Have you thought of decorating this drab space? Apart from you workout equipment, it is so very...uninspiring."
Amos scoffs, "Leave all that artsy crap at my front door, Allie. So, you got news for me?"
Allison calmly states, "It's done. That stubborn dockworker we both spoke of earlier- he has been handled. Last night. They will not find a body anytime soon. Well, not within this decade at least."
She casually sits down on a couch and drapes a leg over the armrest, "And even if they did, they would not be able to tie it back to us." Her voice is somewhat monotone- she speaks without any real enthusiasm or joy. Her accent is plain and neutral.
Amos leans against the wall, crosses his arms, and grins widely, "Excellent! From the time I laid eyes on you all those years ago, I knew that I could trust you. Blood of my Blood, soul of my soul, and all that."
Allison sighs and shrug, "What's next? Or more accurately...who's next? So far, we've been killing off those who pose some threat to our operations here in this Domain, yes?"
Amos corrects her, "It's not merely an operation, it's a sacred task, Allie. They're obstacles who are in our way. Removing them is the most natural thing to do. And we're doing it pretty damn well, aren't we?"
Allison concurs with a brief nod, "Hmm. I leave the plans and the making of them to you. I am more comfortable with getting my hands soaking wet with the blood of these...'people' than concocting schemes in some dimly lit rooms. But I have some questions."
Amos chuckles, "Shoot."
Allie stares at him and reminds him, "I'm a fairly good shot- don't you ever forget that, Amos. Why don't we shoot these people? It would be more efficient, wouldn't it? Procuring a DMR should be fairly straightforward...and it'd make my part of the job simpler. Besides, bullets go a lot further than blades, fangs, and claws."
Mr. Greenberg paces around his Haven and takes some time to think of a satisfactory answer, "I--I wanna see the life draining out of the eyes of those...goyim. When I twist the blade and spill their guts all over the fucking ground...there's...a sort of joy and satisfaction in that."
"Hmm, a very visceral one that I share, Amos. Very well. Is there any other news you have for me? Targets? Opportunities? I should remind you that some of my...artwork is being displayed sometime soon. I can't give you an exact timeframe just yet."
Amos lightly claps, "Well, well, well. Is it for a good cause?"
Allison shrugs, "It's for useless twenty-somethings to come, gawk, ogle, and stare at my works like the sheep that they are. Given how abstract it all is, they'll assign whatever meanings they will, most of which will be wrong. As is usually the case."
"I was never into that crap. Arts, crafts, shit like that," Amos mumbles.
"Neither am I. Well, not at the same level of disinterest as you. But the money it makes helps...me. Us, even..." Allie mirthlessly chuckles and shakes her head from side to side.
She snorts and goes on, "And if I'm being completely honest with myself...I do enjoy getting a response from people. Any response, really. And the attention never hurts, does it? I'm rather pleased that this chance to sell my works is coming around once again."
"Mm-hmm. I got a few more dockworkers for you to bump off. Keep at it and you'll be done before whenever your grand opening's scheduled for, eh?"
Ms. Moretta narrows her eyes and dryly asks, "And what about our other problem?"
Amos rubs the base of his neck and sits his ass down in a chair across from her, "You'll have to be a lot more specific than that, Allison."
She glowers at him, "The diplomat and--"
He cuts her off with a heavy sigh, "Oh, him? Hmph. I know, I know...stop staring at me like that, I'm dealing with it. I've got it covered. He's on our side, OK? So, no breaking into his house and cutting his neck- I know you love doing that, but he's not the enemy. Not ever."
Allie hisses, "You're playing a very risky game, Amos. How can we be certain that what he did won't come and bite us in the ass? Who knows who else he might have told about--"
"Bupkis! He's not stupid, OK? Not about something like this. And his diplomatic immunity should give him all the protection he needs."
"It better not come and haunt us down the road."
"Oh, save the mishigas for one of those pretentious live-painting sessions, Allison! We're safe, we're sound, and everything's just peachy! Now, lemme go and get the information on the next batch of losers who need to be...whacked."
"Sliced open, more like. I don't 'whack' people. I kill them."
Amos sighs and rolls his eyes as he gets up, "Yeah, so do I."
Allison and Amos have been responsible for committing numerous grisly murders all over this Domain. Their main targets are port authorities, dockworkers, supervisors, cargo handlers, vehicle operators, office accountants, clerks...even managers.
Many are yet to be found, sadly. But those who are been found usually have a look of shock etched onto their faces; their throats were cut or their chests were split open.
But there is a method- an end goal- to such psychotic depravity. There is a reason why the False Assamites are committing such heinous crimes in this city, right under everybody's watch.
Amos soon returns with a stack of folders and plops them down on the table in front of Allie. She picks one up at random and idly flips through it while humming softly to herself.
He sits on a chair across from her and waits for her reaction.
She tosses it aside, "Consider her dead. Shame. She had such pretty blue eyes. But her hair's ugly. Too much product...and it's all frizzy."
Amos bursts out laughing, "Hahahahaha! On, Allie! You are a fucking riot! I'm taking care of a port supervisor tonight. Remember, we pace ourselves out. We don't want the law getting any ideas. And we sure as fuck don't want these losers getting suspicious and hiding away in their homes."
Allison yawns, "I suppose...but even if they did, I could still slip in undetected...so, it's hardly an issue if they do get spooked. Speaking of getting spooked, how goes your plan with the Nosferatu? My own little Sewer Rat is...well, he has his uses, and he seems to be loyal enough."
Amos scratches the back of his neck, "Eh...I'm gonna try and arrange a meetup with the Nossie Whip. Laurence Lancaster. The Primogen doesn't seem too keen on an alliance- he's skeptical, I get that. But his Whip could be of immense help."
Allison pops her back, "That--like I said, I leave the elaborateness of planning up to you. Just point me in the direction of who needs to be killed and leave me alone after that."
Mr. Greenberg solemnly nods, "Sure thing. Any works of art you...wanna share with me?"
Ms. Morenstein scoffs at him and gestures to a portrait hung up high in the wall. It's a portrait of the Chabad Rebbe- Menachem Mendel Schneerson. The black-and-white image shows the Lubavitcher Rebbe's side profile, his beard, and his hat.
The Rebbe was an old, racist gremlin who believed that Jews were of a different species- the allegedly superior one, of course. To this day, the Zionist Chabad cult still believes in such vile falsehoods that have been passed on and propagated around like fuckin' latkes.
Allie follows it up with, "My work, of course. You commissioned it and I delivered. What do you see in him that I don't?"
Amos stares at the portrait for a few seconds longer, "Y'know, according to some rumors, he was actually the Ghoul of a very powerful Bnei Hashem?? He'd still be with us tonight, but it--it was time for him to move on, so his Domitor stopped...feeding him his Vitae and let him pass away. A shame, really."
Allie ventures a speculative guess, "Maybe the heat was getting too much to handle- all that attention, for starters. After all, the Rebbe was a very vocal and public figure in his own right. At least he loved Am Yisrael, no matter what his...shortcomings and...other issues were."
"Hmm. Yep. One night, we'll rule over Eretz Yisrael. It'll all be ours- every last fucking inch of it. That's why we're doing what we're doing now; we're working towards that--that noble and lofty goal of securing an existence for our people and a future for our kids. As Jews, we've always had to fucking beg, prostrate ourselves before the goy, assimilate, or fight for our very survival, but now...we will have our homeland. And our dignity."
Allison puts in, "All of it. No matter the cost- it's the only safe place for our kind. We're better off being apart from the rest, honestly. At least we have an objective in mind. And it doesn't hurt that more than half of the world's powers back us up in one way or another. This war has already begun, hasn't it?"
Amos states, "The goyim fired the opening shots. We're just shooting back, Allie."
"Heh, stabbing and slitting, more like. I don't want my latest target getting spooked and jumping onto the next ship headed across the sea--"
"Ah, sit down. Besides, you haven't gone through the other profiles just yet."
She spends a few moments doing so. Once she's perused the last one, she says, "Mmm. All done. Can I go now?"
Amos glares at her, "Why the rush, hmm? I know you, you don't even have a date! What's so important that you have to leave right away?"
Allison replies, "This painting that I'm working on. Surreal piece. Some of my best work, I think. It'll be a breathtaking masterpiece. Or so I'd hope."
Amos smirks, "You mean it'll be a moneymaking masterpiece?" His eyebrows wiggle up and down.
"'Breathtaking' and 'moneymaking' mean the same thing to me. And finding someone to enjoy it along with me...that would just be an extra perk. It's laughably easy to find buyers in this city. But someone desperate to share my bed with me?"
"Make sure that that they won't become clingy or a nuisance later. Then again, knowing you, you'd just slit their throats while riding them."
She chuckles and her lips quirk into a grin, "It's an unlikely source of artistic inspiration, but inspiration all the same. Sometimes, I feel like a Toreador and I can't help but...admire my handiwork. The way the blood is splattered everywhere...how it contrasts so vividly with the flesh and how it drips and flows...the widened eyes, the rictus of horror, and how death itself is painted all over their bodies."
(These people are fucking psychopaths! Holy shit!)
Amos sinks into his seat a little, "Yeah and the entrails, too. I once read some news article about a chick who used her period blood to uh...make 'art', for lack of a better word. You should try it out!"
Allie just blankly stares at him, "Sure, why not. While, thankfully, us Kindred don't get periods, I suppose I could use some of my Vitae to...dazzle the sheep and make them ooh and aah at the sight of my bodily fluids...actually, now that I think more about it, the idea isn't half bad!"
Amos smugly states, "I'm a genius. And anything that you make off of this hypothetical...uh...period piece would be split between us, right?"
Allison responds, "Ninety-Ten."
Amos's eyebrows shoot up, "I'm OK with five percent."
Allison fixes her fellow vampire (psycho) with a questioning gaze, "Amos? Why haven't I been presented to the Prince yet? Why are you keeping me...a secret from the other Kindred in this Domain? Are you dancing on a knife's edge with my Unlife or is there some other reason for all of this secrecy?"
Amos rubs his face tells her, "Allie...I have my reasons for keeping you AWAY from all of those three-eyed freaks. Especially that schvartze."
Whoa.
That is literally a slur as bad as the n-word (hard r) usually thrown around by Yiddish-speaking people.
Allison merely chuckles, "The way you talk about Prince Cedric Montgomery..."
Amos rubs his palms together and licks his lips, a certain viciousness clouding over his features. "What I'd give to Diablerize that fuckin' schvartze in front of his girlfriend."
As it is, Amos has committed Diablerie in the past. But he is TOTALLY NOT an Assamite! His veins have been blackened by the act of rampant Amaranth to the point where he'd occasionally experience visceral flashes of the memories of his past victims.
Most Auspex users can even see a dreadful, miasmic aura of Amaranth surrounding him. Allison has done a bit of the big no-no D in the past, but not nearly as much as Amos has.
She voices her opinion on this matter, "Messy, messy. I like to savor the moment, pace it out, pick my time and my place...and my target."
He rolls his eyes, "Yeah, yeah, rub it in, Allie. Rub it in. Anyways, back onto more important matters, but I think that the Sheriff is onto me. I don't like the looks he flashes me sometimes. And those three eyes always creep me out."
She scoffs at that, "Pffft. Why don't we just kill Sheriff Marshall Fairfield, then?"
"We can't kill something that's already dead. No, destroying him creates more goddamn problems than it solves."
"Oh, please, don't be so pedantic with me. I'm a killer. It's easier than saying 'destroyer'. It doesn't effortlessly roll off of the tongue quite as well as 'killer', y'know?"
"Heh-heh, yeah, so true. Anyways, he's the Prince's lackey. Cedric's...little faithful lapdog with his tongue hanging out. No, if we make a move against him, we risk everything that we've worked hard towards accomplishing here. I know a few ways to...get to him, if push comes to shove, but we shouldn't jump the gun."
Allison points at him and winks, "For now. And what about the woman? Rosalind...?"
Amos groans, "Meyer or uh...Meyers. Just some holier-than-thou Salubri who thinks she's better than the rest of us fanged folk because her food agrees to be the food and knows what it's getting into before the fangs sink in. Bitch. I don't like her very much."
Allison murmurs, "Me neither. I don't like any of them. Can I Diablerize her? I mean, if the opportunity presented itself. You want the black one, you take him. But she sounds...tasty."
Muscle man shrugs and coolly answers, "What the hell, sure. And if we get to that stage, we leave Marshall for an east-facing wall. It's only fair to divide the spoils, right?"
Allie chuckles, "That's one way of putting it. Before I leave, how's the place? I think I saw some kids smoking weed in the hallway- they don't look like they're from around here."
Amos clasps his hands together and stares at his feet, "I bought the whole damn building last year. I evicted a few tenants a few weeks ago- you know, I absolutely fucking hate the excuses that people have when it comes to paying rent, don't you? I don't think I can ever tolerate that whining. It makes me wanna lunge at the fuckers and bite their damn necks."
He proceeds to go on a rant about all the tenants he's had to deal with recently. Allison simply listens to him and gives off the occasional grunt or nod in response.
Mr. Greenberg gesticulates and concludes, "Being who I am ain't easy. And when you give 'em your full name, oh shit, that's when their true colors show. I can see why you changed your last name. Not that I support or condone bowing down to an inferior culture or anything. But I get it, y'know? The masks that we wear, Allie..."
Allison muses, "Hmm. It's too much sometimes. Even I yearn to be free and to be left alone to...do what I want to do. Leave me in peace to my own art."
Amos promises her, "One night, Allison, you'll have the best damn view in a condominium in Gaza- we'll get it back, and soon. Play your cards right and you'll own the whole fucking building, rake in the rent, and you won't ever have to worry about anything else, ever again."
Allison dreamily stares off into the distance, "And I won't have to worry about anyone else...ever again. Just me...and my...works, my...masterpieces."
"Just like you've always wanted. It's not a delusion. It's our destiny."
These two psychotic mass murderers spend a few more minutes basking in their dreadful and gruesome dreams, plans, and goals. Then Allison leaves and swiftly carries out the murder of one of Amos's targets.
Amos, meanwhile, is out to do some murdering of his own. And address the eternal Hunger that is now rising and bubbling up within him. He is a monster of the night...in more ways than one. As is Allison Moretta.
His Hunger is his to endure. It's never-ending, and it will never go away. The Beast's demands can only be kept at bay and quieted for a time.
Mr. Greenberg changes into smart casuals, puts on a kippah, slips into a pair of sneakers, grabs his car keys, and drives off. The building that he now owns (one among many) is fifteen stories tall, dark in color, quite secluded, and has plenty of room for him to store his ill-gotten gains in.
He owns all of it and he squeezes his tenants like freaking lemons for every cent that he can wring out of them.
Mr. Amos Greenberg...is a landlord.
Yuck.
The False Assamite is out to kill a port supervisor tonight. He elects to kill two birds with one stone by draining the poor person dry rather than resorting to his usual method of stabbing and slashing.
Amos parks his sedan in a dark and shady area. The False Assamite surveys the area. The loud horns of a few ships can be heard blaring out in the distance. The waters ripple with every wave that splashes against the pier.
The night sky above is dotted by a few stars and wispy clouds that drift lazily past.
As is to be expected, the intended victim for tonight is pacing around. His semi-scarred face is twisted into an expression of frustration as he keeps muttering curses under his breath. He speaks into his mobile phone, stops and listens to whoever's on the other side, and resumes pacing around. His small eyes dart back and forth every now and again.
Amos snarls and bares his fangs. His sharp claws slide out from the tips of his fingers. The False Assamite creeps behind the hapless victim and swiftly closes the distance between the two of them. Within the blink of an eye, the hapless mortal is tackled to the ground.
Amos's fangs sink into the man's neck, drawing out fresh, hot, red blood that spurts out with every thump of the heart. The poor guy's scream of terror and agony is muffled and cut off after a couple seconds.
A gory chunk of flesh is savagely bit off from his neck and viciously spat aside. Blood dribbles and drips down from Amos's mouth and splatters all over the victim's clothing.
The False Assamite unleashes a devastating punch on the man's face. The life of his victim is slowly but surely ebbing away from his body. After that, the vampire pins the victim to the ground. He sinks his teeth into the poor guy's flesh again, this time taking MORE blood.
The False Assamite wants to consume and devour every last drop of blood that he can suck out. His Beast gleefully goads him into going further, deeper, harder, faster.
The mortal helplessly flails his arms about until they eventually drop to the ground with an unceremonious thump. His feet jerk around spasmodically a few more times and then go still.
Blood coats Amos's chin. He wildly screeches into the dark sky like an animal that just caught its prey. He ruthlessly bashes in his victim's face, just for the hell of it. Pummeling punch after pummeling punch turns that poor man's face into a mushy, incomprehensible mess.
The smell of blood and death hangs thick in the air.
Amos gets off the dead body, flicks some gory bits off of his own clothing, flexes his biceps, and saunters away from the grisly scene of violence that he's just created.
Bastard.
Amos gets back into his sedan, reaches for the spare change of clothes that he always brings along, and starts changing into new attire. He tosses the dirty ones into a duffel bag and starts driving off. He whistles a tune to himself and cruises through the streets for a few minutes.
Then he pulls over to the side and parks. He squints and sees a bar that's been around since the seventies. His Beast has got his Blood boiling and he's itching from the high of his latest feeding.
The sedan screeches to a halt. The False Assamite fixes his hair and gets out of his sedan. He calmly strides across the road and opens the door to the establishment. Before entering, he makes sure to take off his kippah.
Wood panels for the walls, bead curtains, cheesy music from the aforementioned decade, hazy smoke, and people (mostly dressed) in vintage clothing- this place reeks of a long-passed decade.
Amos chuckles, shakes his head, and makes his way over to a nice round table in the corner of the bar- away from all the "riffraff". There's a comfortable chair there and a nice view of the rest of the joint.
He sits down and turns his head up to the ceiling. A jukebox sits in a strategic position and plays the same old seventies songs on loop. Yep, this place oozes of that particular decade from every single nook and cranny.
The False Assamite's Beast is still yearning for blood, violence, and chaos, but...he came here to calm down a bit, to get the inner growls and nagging demands under control. So, he does just that.
He eyes the ketchup packets on the table and snickers, "Yeah, right. Tch."
His enhanced vampiric hearing permits him to pick up bits and pieces of other people's conversations. Despite the music, he makes out a few sentences and phrases.
"That MCPD guy...holy shit, like, he's literally a--"
"Did you see that link I sent you? Birds, man! Birds! And--and they're saying it's in the water!!"
"I shouldn't, I know. But what's one more beer gonna do, huh? Besides, I need it. I've been working soooo hard these past few weeks and--"
"You're not gonna believe it. Chevy Chase accepted my friend request on Facebook! Yeah, see, the REAL Chevy Chase!"
A man with a Southern twang in his voice continues, "Like I was saying, he got some nice Asian woman to look into the bastard who ran my nephew over. She's doing it pro bono. Tyler...he didn't deserve that."
Amos lets out an imperceptible gasp. He narrows his eyes and tries to focus more on that last line. But the noise and chatter drown out any other words that the guy might say. So, he gets up and takes the empty seat next to...
Tyler's uncle. And Tina's husband. He in his early fifties, has salt and pepper hair, and a double chin. He is in good health, however. His bum leg hangs off to the side of the stool that he's seated on. His eyes dart back and forth as if expecting to find danger lurking around every single corner.
Amos inconspicuously takes his seat and clasps his hands together. He waits for the uncle to speak first.
The uncle drones on, "Not many folks know about what happened to Ty. Jake wanted to keep it that way. It ain't right, but he--he wasn't my kid. It's real tough on him, y'know? And my sister...damn, she..."
His voice breaks and he struggles to fight the tears back. He finishes the remainder of his beer in one big swig and slams the empty mug back down onto the table.
The young lady seated next to him looks...unsure of everything. Discomfort is writ all over her face. She nervously glances at Amos, gives him a weak smile, and continues looking around.
Amos nods at her, subtly shoos her off, and clears his throat, "Erm...I couldn't help but overhear some things that you were saying. About your nephew..."
Tina's husband turns his head towards Amos, "Oh, r--right. Y--you are?"
Amos smiles and gives a fake name (one of many), "John Rollins." He even puts on a slightly (but not overly so) fake Southern accent.
The somewhat inebriated mortal introduces himself, "S--Samuel. What do you do, Mr. Rollins?"
"I'm a reporter with Vice." Another lie delivered with practiced ease.
Samuel stares at his empty mug and then looks at the vampire. The latter gets what he's hinting at- he snaps his fingers and orders a mug of beer.
The False Assamite inquires, "I was just wondering, Samuel, about your nephew. Um...what happened to him?"
Samuel skeptically glares at Amos, "What's it to you?"
"Like I said: I'm with Vice Media. Your story sounds like it might be up my alley."
The bartender gives Samuel his mug of booze and the latter takes a long swig from it. Amos waits for his reply. Patiently. His dead eyes intensely study the mortal's features with great "care".
Samuel finally responds, "What's it to you? Never heard of this...Vice before. But I'm not smart 'un. Not even by a longshot. Why are you so interested? Do you...even know the first thing about...about my nephew?"
Amos confidently answers, "I know that fourteen-year-old Tyler Woodward was killed in a hit-and-run."
Samuel's lower lip quivers. He nods and sniffles, "Th--that's correct, sir. Sumbitch who did it still hasn't been found. That's why his dad- Jake- hired some Asian PI to get to the bottom of it all."
"Interesting. Now, I'm certain that your story is right up my alley. Why don't we continue this conversation elsewhere, hmm?"
"Why?"
Amos can feel the gears turning in his head, "We got a studio nearby. We could get up setup with a mic, blur your face- if you'd like, and get you to tell your story. At Vice, we prefer to do things authentically, raw, and unfiltered. We want to hear YOU speak for YOURSELF. No agendas, no spin, no fancy edits, hell...no makeup or filters. Just you and a mic. What do you say, Samuel?"
Samuel takes another sip of his beer, "Will it--it help find the bastard who--who ran my nephew over and left him to die like...like some sorta garbage? Will it bring justice along?"
Amos figures that this grief-stricken man can't really see much of anything and his judgement is severely clouded by grief, anger, and booze. He flatly answers, "It'll be international news in no time."
Samuel wipes away his tears, "Well then. Y--you got a studio around here? Do I have to sign forms? I--I got a motorbike. My wife doesn't like me riding around in it, but I gotta go places somehow."
"Don't worry, I have my own set of wheels. Besides, look at you, you're in no state to drive."
"Wait, wait."
Amos stifles a groan, "What is it now? C'mon, the studio's a few blocks away. We'll get you in front of a camera and let you tell your own story--"
Samuel slurs his words together, "Hold on, hold on. You're a reporter. Where--where were you said you with again?"
"Vice. Vice Media Group LLC. John Rollins. I cover human interest stories pertaining to the soft white underbelly of America's often overlooked and undervalued communities."
Samuel's eyes light up, "Ooh. Big words, huh...Roll...ins."
Amos mutters, "You're gonna need to let the booze wear off. C'mon, let's get--"
"No, no, wait...wait. Another question."
"Yep?"
"How legit are you Vice people?"
"We're different. We do things differently, authentically, and raw. Just ask around on social media, buddy."
"I--I don't...none--none of that."
Amos impatiently pinches the bridge of his nose, "We're a reputable outfit, sir. That's all I can tell you. If you wanna stay here and drown your sorrows in beer, then hey, be my guest. But I'm givin' you the opportunity of a lifetime here, pal. Tell me a little more about this nephew of yours."
Samuel slides his mug across the table, "Smart kid, like...really smart. Came here with his parents to study in one of them special schools. Not that kinda special, mind you. But at a--a school where his wavelength is...is tuned into theirs. He was walking back home from extra classes when--when--"
Amos completes the man's sentence for him, "--when the hit-and-run occurred. Yes, I know. I read the police report, sir. I am so very sorry for your loss." Cynical insincerity laces every word of that.
Samuel nods his head and wrings his hands together, "Yeah. Sometime later, Tyler's mother- my sister- commits suicide. The weight of it was too much to--to bear for her. Now, Jake's...all alone. His family gone, torn apart..."
The False Assamite looks on indifferently, "All the more reason for you to come with me and let the rest of America know about this tragedy. I take it that the cops haven't been very helpful?"
Samuel shakes his head, "No, sir, they have not. I don't cuss often, so when I say fuck the Magnolia City Police Department, I do mean...fuck the MCPD."
Amos chuckles at that, "Wow. Heh. I'm inclined to agree, buddy. So, what say you? Sobered up and sober enough to get in front of a camera?"
"I'd prefer to keep my face and--and name outta this. Jake wouldn't appreciate me going behind his back like this. Ty was my nephew, but he was Jake's boy."
"Of course. But he'll thank you for getting the world's attention focused on what happened to his boy. We can...blur your face out, distort your voice a bit, if that'll make you feel better."
"I would very much appreciate that, Mr. Rollins."
"Call me John."
Samuel groans while adjusting his position on the stool, "I should probably get a cab or an Uber to bring me to this studio of yours. Oh, I should also call my Tina and tell her that I'll be runnin' late."
Amos reaches out and grips the mortal's wrist, "Oh, there's really no need for that, Samuel. It'll all be over even before you know it. Trust me. We'll go in my car. Once, I'm done, I'll drop you off wherever you wanna be. How's that sound, hmm?"
Samuel scoops up some peanuts from a bowl and deposits them into his open mouth. The munching-crunching sounds echo within the bar.
Amos keeps calm and hopes that he can pull this off without too many snags, complications, or (overly) messy disasters.
Samuel belches, excuses himself, and grunts while getting off the stool. His bum leg gives out under the weight of his body. Amos swiftly catches him and steadies him.
"Whoa, whoa, whoa. C'mon. How you even ride a bike is anybody's guess. I got you. I got you."
It really was all over even before poor Samuel knew it. Amos keeps a nasty hunting knife in the back of his sedan just in case. The stabbed man was...questioned. He, unfortunately, divulged the names of the individual who was hired to look into Tyler's murder.
Lena Adams, Private Investigator for the public good.
This does not bode well for her at all. Or those close to her, for that matter.
Amos then drove to a viaduct, got out of the car, cut up pieces of Samuel and started scattering the remains into the murky waters beneath. The mortal was already dead by the time his limbs and head got detached from his mangled torso.
(He made sure to drive well under the speed limit so as not to incur any unwanted attention. How very..."considerate" of him).
A few hours later...
Amos and Allison have reconvened at the former's Haven. Amos gets out of the shower with a towel wrapped around his waist. His chiseled abs are in full view. The two monsters soon get down to business.
(And there is quite A LOT to discuss, namely, this most recent turn of events. This...troubling turns of events, if anything).
Allie smugly relaxes on the sofa and hums, "They always scream, cry, beg, and plead. But it all melds into music for my ears, Amos. Music all the same, really. I mean, when you think about it...what is music except people- emotional ones- screaming and making random noises and sounds, hmm?"
Allison Moretta/Morenstein is the quintessential Israeli- as shallow as a kiddie pool and as bloodthirsty as Hitler and Mussolini combined.
Amos picks up a handgrip strengthener and starts working his fingers. He blithely comments, "Mm-hmm. We got ourselves a bit of a fucking problem. Anyway, how did your part of the night go?
Allison dreamily reminisces, "Well, I had the chance to kill, Amos. The looks on those faces...ah, it is something quite wonderful to behold. I love the terror- it makes the blood tastier, you know? The screeching flavors the blood."
Amos keeps working his fingers, "Hm. Sometimes, I ask myself if all this fakakta is worth it, but then I remember what I truly am, what WE truly are."
"Vampires. Kindred. Cainites."
Amos growls a little, "Hmm. You see, Allie, most people never have to face the fact that at the right time and right place, they're capable of anything. Any-fucking-thing. Just look at what be both achieved in a single night. Hell, by a stroke of dumb luck, I learned that we've got someone sniffing around and poking her nose where it doesn't belong."
Allison bites her lower lip, "Really? Ooh, do tell. Another one for us to...remove from this plane of existence? Who is she, anyway?"
Amos derisively answers, "Some Asian shiksa who happens to be a PI. I'm looking more into her, but I don't like what I've heard so far."
Allie prompts him, "Which is...?"
"Jesus Christ, Allie, I just got outta the shower. You try getting dead yeehaw hillbilly bits outta your hair, face, and everywhere else. He sang like a bird before he died, too."
Allie giggles, "I do hope he was as sweet as one."
Amos dismissively waves his free hand, "Ah, it's done. So, here's what I do know about this nosy bitch...but I'll find more out in due time, trust me. For starters, her name's Lena Adams. She moonlights as a Private Eye..."
By the end of it all, Amos makes sure to remind his fellow Bnei Hashem to be cautious, keep their eyes peeled, and ALWAYS keep him in the loop about every single thing they might learn about this Lena Adams chick.
But most of them are still quite busy waging their shadowy and secretive war against the ACTUAL Banu Haqim in this Domain. The true Assamites are slowly being peeled off or are sent packing. Till now, the Assamite Primogen has not been seen or heard from for weeks on end.
It's not known whether he is hiding out, locked away in an underground bunker, fell into Torpor, or has simply been slain by the False ones. Maybe he was Beckoned away?
The last person to see him was Dr. George Fateh, but he remains very tight-lipped about his whereabouts (and a whole lotta other things, too).
In time, Amos and Allison part ways. Sunrise is imminent, so Amos sets about to making the necessary preparations for his day-long slumber.
There will be plenty of time to get back to "business" once the new night arrives. And, hopefully, he'll be able to find a way to deal with the PI before she finds herself in too deep...with these dangerous waters that she's slowly being pulled into.
While Amos snuggles himself into bed, a shudder passes through his muscular body. He involuntarily spasms and grunts. The consequences of his rampant Diablerie have begun to make themselves known down to his very essence. Memories and experiences not belonging to him violently flash by before his mind's eye.
He clenches his jaws so hard that they hurt. Droplets of Blood trickle out of his nostrils. The coppery smell and taste of the stuff linger inside his mouth. The blackened veins on his forehead bulge and pulsate with a sickeningly malignant aura.
Distant memories of his own past flash through his consciousness. Memories that he'd long suppressed and pushed aside to make room for the "baggage" that he's acquired over the long decades.
His lips quiver, "R--Rivkah. No...no! NO!!!! NOOOOOO!"
Amos's claws pop out. His fangs elongate and he springs up from bed. Then, as abruptly as this nightmarish experience began, it ends. His wife's face fades from the forefront of his mind.
He has a dull, throbbing headache. He holds the side of his head and lightly groans. After a moment or two, he lies back down and pulls the sheets up. Within seconds of the approaching sunrise, he and all the other Kindred in this Domain are fast asleep.
Well, such is the nightly Unlife of two monstrous Zionists. It's no surprise (or shocker), then, that a vast majority (not all) of the world's Jews support the ethnostate of Israel and all its "glorious" actions. And the same could be said for a disturbingly large amount of Jewish Orgs out there.
The Zionists' long history of violence and terrorism against their neighbors and the Palestinian people in particular is well-documented for those humane and curious enough to give it a good, honest, and long look.
And it's no surprise that Israel itself, in the final analysis, is a nation of psychopaths. But there is a reason for all of this. People aren't born that way- monsters aren't born, they are made.
They are cultivated by powers and forces that are far beyond them. Cultivated for a variety of perverse purposes. Powers and forces that seek to prey upon the weak, the desperate, and the broken.
Powers and forces that are...insatiable in their conquest for raw materials, spheres of geostrategic influence, and abundant pools of cheap labor.
Powers and forces that are in a state of desperation and panic. They know what is coming for them- what is on the horizon- and they need more monsters in order to offset their inevitable collapse and doom.
That power has many names, many bases of operations, and an ultimate purpose. Washington DC, Canberra, Berlin, Ottawa, London, Madrid, Paris, New Delhi, Wellington, etcetera. These and many others stand to materially benefit from the status quo and thus seek to maintain it.
Israel is, if nothing else, imperialism's most faithful attack dog in the Middle East. Hence the need to cultivate a population of utterly psychotic savages and sadistic deviants. They will be needed in the years, months, and days ahead.
Their "services" to empire will be quite invaluable, to say the very least.
And the False Assamites are merely cogs in this vast machine of war, murder, repression, and backwardness. But the Zionist ethnonationalists are merely a small piece of a larger, far more malignant whole.
Jewish supremacy is merely a byproduct of this larger, far more sinister agenda. A supporting pillar for empire and its diabolical designs.
But there are still brave souls out there fighting- bravely, desperately, or otherwise- to put a stop to all of this and to carve out a path to a better and more dignified world.
A tomorrow without fear, division, hatred, and oppression.
Until then, however, one is left to contend with the true monsters amongst us, amidst our societies, communities, cities, towns, neighborhoods, streets, homes, schools, colleges, workplaces, and lives.
(Or Unlives).
The interregnum, after all, is a time of monsters.
And the False Assamites are merely the tip of the iceberg. They're murdering their way through a specific part of this city for a very specific reason- it's all part of a bigger picture, a larger scheme, if anything.
The rest will be disclosed in due time.
Chapter Six: RBF
The sun begins to rise over Magnolia City. It peeks over the horizon with an orange glow, coating the world beneath its radiance with warm light. The chill and dewiness of night fade away and give way to a (relatively) cool morning.
Lena awakens with a start- that damned infinite drowning/not-drowning dream haunted her again. She wipes the sweat off her forehead and tries to slow her racing heartbeat. She calmly breathes out, rests her tensed body on the mattress, and shuts her eyes.
For a few moments, of course.
Shower is next. But first, Lena checks out her clothing and checks her phone for messages and texts. A few are from Yvonne and she's just checking on her. The rest are work-related stuff, namely, stuff pertaining to her job as a PI.
Some clients wanna know about their respective spouse's (or partner's) activities, whereabouts, movements, and so forth.
Lena sighs. Her fingers glide across the virtual keyboard as she sends text after text to each and every curious (antsy) client who needs them answers.
The warm water brings a serene calmness to Lena's mind and body. She makes sure to use a nifty face wash that Yvonne absolutely swears by. Afterwards, Lena emerges from the shower looking (and smelling) fresher than ever.
She slips into her work clothes with a practiced ease, applies a bit of makeup, grabs her purse, locks the door, and shuffles outta her house in the 'burbs!
First stop?
GROUND BEANZ!
Like always, it is full at this time of the day. The Wednesday morning crowd is an eclectic mix of young hipsters, suburban moms whose SUVs are getting obnoxiously bigger (and nastier) with each passing year, baggy-eyed nightshift drones looking to stay awake long enough to get home, and some buskers preparing for the long day ahead.
Lena lowers her head while queuing up behind two geriatrics who are taking their time deciding on what to get. She takes a peek at her phone, skims through various news articles (with heavy skepticism), and then slips it back into the pocket of her duffel coat.
The baristas with aching feet and (slightly) hunched backs go about their usual routine with an efficiency born out of years of experience. If only their pay reflected that more accurately.
Lena, being the coffee fiend that she is, orders a double espresso and some ginger biscuits- those two people in front of her took quite a while, so she'll have to treat the biscuits as breakfast. She also texts Yvonne while patiently waiting for her stuff.
Yvonne texts back: "U looked gud in that dress, gurl. How was the date, anyways?? Deets, gurl, deets."
Lena chuckles faintly: "I don't see it quite working out. She's nice and all, but...ehh. Got too much baggage, to put it kindly."
Yvonne texts back with lotsa emojis: "Baggage? Hmmmm. Send her my way, then :-)"
Lena snickers: "Hm. Sure. But she wants to remain friends. just friends."
"We also started out as 'just friends' :-P and now look at us!"
"That's different, lol. How's life? BTW, we should catch up. U free 4 lunch 2day???"
Yvonne replies with a bunch of crying face emojis: "I fucking wish, gurl. Gotta pull off dat overtime. u know how it is. Retail's a bitch sometimes, but we should meet...and maybe..."
Lena's eyebrows go up at that. She can't help but giggle: "And maybe...?"
Yvonne texts back: "its a bit 2 early for a tease :-P. but u know wat i mean, rite? Anyways, gotta go now. If i had to take a guess, ur still waiting for your coffee. gurl, you got issues when it comes 2 caffeine."
Lena shakes her head: "Hah! I probably do. bye."
The PI pays for her stuff, nay a cent more in the form of tips and chomps down her on her ginger biscuits while washing them down with espresso. The morning sun paints a very picturesque sight.
Buildings of glass and steel reflect the glorious light from above. Streetcars chug along their tracks with mechanical precision. The ground beneath Lena's pumps rumbles softly as a metro train passes by. Pedestrians are either busy chatting away or talking on their phones.
Crystal Street Station looks as bustling as ever. It's business as usual here. People in suits flock to and fro the underground. The surrounding restaurants and fast-food joints are all crammed full of customers. There's a long line in front of a kiosk selling newspapers and magazines.
A nearby billboard promotes a new energy drink, of course. It's the most cookie-cutter neon sign imaginable- photoshopped white woman smiling eerily while "holding" a can of whatever that heart-exploding sludge is.
Ads flash on numerous screens positioned strategically around the subway station. Like all public transit hubs in this Domain, Crystal Street Station features countless small shops and kiosks (for commuters) who are either buying stuff or otherwise milling about.
Lena patiently waits for her train. The caffeine and ginger make her feel rejuvenated, but she's already getting the tingles. She ALREADY wants another cuppa joe.
A small one.
She shivers in place, licks her lips, and fidgets with her hands. To keep her mind off that itch, Lena decides to mentally go over her ongoing cases. The PI leans against a non-grimy portion of the wall and looks up at the ceiling.
Lena lowers her sunglasses and stares at the ceiling for a few moments. Her amber eyes slowly move from left to right as if she is reading something on the tiles above.
The choo-choo train soon comes to a halt. Lena dutifully waits on the side as the doors hiss open. The more impatient folks and the slow walkers hustle on out. She gives 'em a wide berth, keeping her head lowered.
At last, it is time to board! She holds onto a hanging strap and decides to call her mom up.
Susie answers, but there is a certain tiredness in her voice, "Mmm-hmm?"
"Hi, mom...you--are you OK? I can always call back later--"
Susie yawns and interjects, "No, no, it's fine, sweetie. It's fine. Yoshi's just resting his...eyes."
Lena concernedly asks, "How is dad really doing?"
"Oh, y'know. He's...hanging in there."
"Mom..."
Susie lets out a sigh of resignation, "OK, OK, he's...not doing too good, Lena. But listen, I don't want you getting all worried, OK? I can take care of my husband just fine. You go, live your life, meet someone who'll make you happy, and let me deal with things back home, OK?"
Lena sniffs and mumbles, "It doesn't have to be like this, mom. What's stopping me f--from moving back in with you two, huh?"
Susie points out, "Because this is America, sweetie. Living with your parents is...kinda frowned upon when you're at that age. Don't worry about us. Me and your dad are handling it."
Lena grits her teeth, "That's bullshit! I--I have no issues with living with you two; neither does dad!" Given how she raised her voice a little, some of the passengers give her varying looks from quirked eyebrows to sympathetic grimaces.
The PI, sensing the unwanted attention, takes a deep breath and continues in a much softer tone, "OK. S--sorry. I shouldn't have raised my voice at you, mom. I'm sorry. But the point is that I have absolutely NO issue living with you. Hell, I'm even ready to bring the both of you over here!"
Susie immediately dismisses the idea, "No. I--I dunno about that, sweetie. True, your dad would've liked it and all, but I feel that it might just affect your chances...at everything."
Mom chuckles and goes on, "Like imagine you wanted to bring somebody home and there your dad was, snoring on the couch. That'd be kinda awkward. Or wait, wait! What if the interviewer asked you about your living uh...arrangements? 'I live with my parents' is hardly gonna impress them, sweetie."
Lena rolls her eyes, "You're worried that the two of you would, what, slow me down? Or worse yet, jeopardize my future?"
The awkward silence on the other end of the line is quite heartbreaking. Lena does her best to avoid giving away her emotions and feelings, but it's quite difficult in the face of this...rabidly individualistic American society where adults living with their parents is viciously looked down upon.
Lena sardonically says, "No need to answer, mom. I--I get it. But I'm still sending some money over. And so is Roland."
Susie gratefully responds, "And we are grateful for it, sweetie. What you and your brother do for us is--is--"
Her voice breaks and she starts to gently sob. Lena bites down on her lip and waits for her mom to calm down.
Given that the gumshoe is almost nearing her destination, she hastily says, "Listen, mom. I--I gotta go. Take care, OK? And if things get...really bad, you can always call me up. Me and Roland are there for you- both of you. Just like you were there for us when we were little. Now, it's our turn to take care of you."
Susie snorts indignantly, "Aw, c'mon, we're not THAT old, y'know."
Lena briefly chuckles, says goodbye to her mother, and ends the call. It'll be quite a few more minutes before her station arrives. She wipes the tears away from her face and sniffs again.
Work is...work. The early hours of the early morning zoom by in the blurriest of blurs. Lena dutifully carries out the tasks that keep a roof over head and some cash in her pocket.
When she has the chance to do so, she routinely checks in with clients (PI clients, that is) via phone or text, schedules appointments with them (and others), updates them on various aspects of their respective cases, and otherwise stays on top of things.
(There is yet another clause in Lena's contract which unambiguously stipulates that engaging in any second job or side activities while on the clock are strictly forbidden).
But, eh, whatevs. Fuck that. Lena can literally see a co-worker of hers who is playing Counter-Strike (one of the older versions that runs on older machines) while giggling like a goblin coming upon a ton of shiny, shiny loot.
After what feels like an eternity of filing, pointless busywork, and even more spreadsheets, it is now time for lunch! Lena tosses her empty coffee cup into the bin, fixes her ponytail, and heads downstairs to see what she can fill her belly with.
After all, a hardworking gal like her needs her food. And her coffee.
ESPECIALLY HER COFFEE.
Miss Adams takes her scran at an open-air joint. It's more crowded than usual, but that just means that the food's good. Usually. She opts for a plate of extra-cheesy nachos and some churros. Hmm, yummy!
While eating, her facial muscles are as relaxed as they could possibly be. She rubs the side of her neck, slurps on her lemonade, and blandly looks around her while slowly chewing on her food.
Lena nods at passersby in the most cursory manner imaginable. And she does it because, well, it's just polite, innit?
Even then, Lena Akira has practically mastered her RBF (Resting Bitch Face) down to a tee- that's just how things are for her.
(It's worth noting that, in her younger years, she had an angsty emo phase that lasted for exactly five days).
Lena grunts out a chuckle when that memory resurfaces- it causes her to cringe a little bit.
Black makeup, stuck-out tongue, copious amounts of eyeliner ("borrowed" from the school's most popular girl), an attempt at a belly piercing (mom DID NOT like that), super-loud music at night (dad DID NOT like that), and shredding on the guitar (Roland laughed at that).
While still maintaining her RBF, Lena finishes up her food, collects her stuff, and walks out without leaving a tip. She already paid for her food and all, but tipping is just not something that she can, in good faith, do.
Lena cracks a smile for the first time that day. A small smile. As she heads back up to the second floor, her phone vibrates in the pocket of her duffel coat. She pulls it out and clearly sees the contact's name: "Toby Fetscher".
She sighs and answers it, "Make it quick, Toby. I'm getting back to work."
Toby is a little taken aback by his friend's tone of voice, "Um...wow. Not exactly how I'd greet a close friend, but OK. You do you, I guess. I uh...called because I'm worried about Eddie. You know, Eddie--"
Lena flatly responds, "I know who our friend is. Anyway, what's got you so concerned about him?"
Toby's cheeks puff out when he exhales loudly into the phone. He takes a second or two to collect his thoughts before going on, "Yeah, he's been...acting shifty lately. He said he was off to visit someone. Who? He--he wouldn't say. He's hiding something from us, Lena. I just know it."
"Maybe it's nothing. We already had this--"
Toby clicks his tongue, "C'mon, Lena don't be like this...all dismissive and--and catty and smart-mouthed all the time. Eddie's our friend. I mean, c'mon, we've got lunch planned for tomorrow. And you're, well, invited to join us. Anyways, back to Eddie. Are you getting my drift or what?"
"'Catty,' huh? Hmph. Never mind. Eddie has been...showing off. I scrolled through his Facebook profile and saw a whole bunch of pictures of him showing off."
"Heh, yeah, I took some of those for him. He still won't tell me how he suddenly came across all that cash, though. It's weird. And I--I'm worried. What if he got in w--with a bad crowd or--or--"
Lena finds it pretty odd that her friend is stuttering so much and being so paranoid, "Toby. Stop. Relax. Eddie's a big boy- he can take care of himself just fine, right? Besides, you work with him day in and day out. How is he when you're both at the garage?"
Toby shrugs, "He's...fine, I guess. He--he said that he wants to pay for tomorrow's lunch. And he wants to take us both to that fancy new place downtown. Said it'd be a treat for us."
"Wow. Um...OK. Great."
Toby makes a few grunting noises in his throat. He shuffles on his seat and grunts some more.
Lena frowns and asks, "Whoa, what's going on? You sound like you're in pain."
"Nah, just my old chest binder giving me some issues- y'know how it is. I've had it for--for quite a while now. We've been through a--a lot together. Look, regarding my previous comment about you being catty, I dunno if you intentionally mean it or not, but sometimes, you do sound kinda--"
The PI interjects, "Toby...let's not go there right now. I have work to do."
"Hmm. Fine. But we're not done having this conversation, Lena. Eddie's my friend- he's yours, too- and I just wanna make sure that everything's OK with him."
Lena reassures him, "Everything IS fine with him, Toby. But just in case it isn't, we can check on him later."
Toby chuckles, "'We'?"
"Who's being catty now, huh? Listen, I gotta go now. Take care, Toby. See you and Ed at lunch tomorrow."
"Mm-hmm. Bye!! And...just for the record, I wasn't gonna call you bitchy. But you can be kinda...dismissively cold and off-putting sometimes, y'know?"
Lena dully responds, "Never said I was perfect. Have a great afternoon."
After hanging up, Lena looks up at the ceiling and yawns a little.
She helps herself to a cup of coffee and gets busy on the remainder of her work. Her fellow Pluto Enterprises employees either work, watch the clocks (conspicuously), gossip by the watercoolers (inconspicuously) or otherwise sleep (and then get woken up by a grumpy co-worker who felt it their sworn duty to do so).
Lena- who is fueled by caffeine- powers through her work till the time's up. By four forty-four, she springs up from her seat, gets her erratic breathing under control, grabs her stuff, and prepares to head straight for her PI office.
There's work that needs to be done; there are people who need to be followed around!
Gary the bossman watches her saunter away with those oddly weary eyes of his. Lena shivers and slowly turns her head to meet his gaze. He musters up a smile, weakly waves, nods, and then goes back to looking through his iPad.
The afternoon sun beats down upon Lena's sunglasses-clad face. Her shades protect her from the glare coming from the vehicle's windows and other surfaces. Ms. Adams goes to her PI office and begins to prepare herself for the (long) evening ahead.
Lena checks that her DSLR camera is working perfectly and that the lenses are in tip-top shape. She also ensures that there's a fresh memory card inserted and that the batteries are charged up.
If she's lucky, it'll be an easy night- just follow her mark, get "the goods" on them (see if they're cheating or not), and then she can go home. If not, she'll probably have to hide herself in some bushes and wait a REALLY LONG time before taking those all-important (and compromising) shots.
Lena unzips her duffel coat, slings it over her chair, and leans against the desk while absentmindedly fidgeting with her hands. She paces around for a few moments, fetches herself a cuppa joe (or five), and settles back down into her seat with a long and drawn-out sigh.
The sun begins the unceremonious process of setting. For a moment, the city's landscapes and skylines are painted with beautiful shades of red, orange, and pink. Picturesque is the only way to describe it.
This is Magnolia City- sturdy brownstone buildings, a handful of stable brutalist structures, and a ton of magnolias.
The denizens of this Domain go about their lives. Throngs of people head home from work. The buses and subway trains are loaded full of tired people who just want to get home already, throw their (stinky) feet up on the couch, and unwind.
The sun soon fades away- entirely. Now is the time for darkness to engulf everything, to reign supreme, as it were. Once that great and terrible star of fire has completely retreated, nighttime firmly sets in.
And the Kindred begin to stir awake.
Lena counts down the seconds while shaking her leg up and down. She'll head out once it's a bit darker- she can't really be seen stalking people out in broad daylight now, can she?
(But she still has to keep the artificial light in mind. Then again, she didn't get to where she is by being careless and reckless).
In the meanwhile, the PI keeps herself occupied by scrolling through Facebook, liking some stuff from her friends (close, mutual, or otherwise).
Elsewhere...
Amos stirs from his day-sleep. He immediately hits his home gym and viciously begins pumping iron like there's no tomorrow. He pays no heed to the outside world, simply focusing on honing his physical body into the ideal- the peak- of Jewish masculinity (or so he thinks).
Minutes fly by as he steadily crushes more and more reps with each passing moment. It's no coincidence that he has a picture of Eli Roth (a thoroughly repulsive Zionist cretin) depicting the character of the "Bear Jew" from 2009's substance-less "Inglourious Basterds".
Amos mentally cheers himself on as he punches and kicks the shit out of his punching bag. Earphones are shoved deep into his ears as he listens to an avalanche of hardcore gym-adjacent music that even gets his dead heart to act up a bit.
Amos begins doing all manner of push-ups, burpees, and whatnot. He can practically hear the synths and drums as he increases his workout pace.
He howls with delight when he goes for a quick-draw on an imaginary opponent- unsheathing an invisible swipe of his claws and then following it up with a swift pounce that culminates in him gouging out said foe's eyes and pulling their innards out.
The False Assamite screeches into the air like a wild animal, smashes his fists on the floor, and starts sparring with an invisible enemy once again. He dodges left, right, ducks down, and sweeps the "opponent's" legs from under them.
As a finisher move, he rapidly punches their "face" in while knowingly smirking at the picture of Eli Roth/the Bear Jew. Amos finishes his intense workout by once again counting his reps and doing some weight-lifting.
When he pulls out one of his earphones, the sound of his bell being incessantly rung soon greets him. Amos sneers and glances at the clock. It's a little past seven PM.
Muscle man wipes the sweat-blood from his face and goes to check who it is. He clicks his tongue in frustration when he looks through the peephole and sees a familiar person standing on his doorstep.
Amos lets his visitor in and grumbles, "Evening, Avi. What do you want now?"
"I was out here for nearly ten whole minutes--" Avi indignantly huffs while storming into the vampire's Haven, "--and I rang your bell a dozen times! How'd you not hear me, huh?"
Amos dryly says, "I was working out."
Avi Shipman is quite old and short-ish. He has a bad tan, thinning, graying hair, and he talks with a slight Brooklyn accent. He is an Israeli diplomat posted at the Israeli consulate.
The mortal adjusts the kippah on his head, tugs on the lapels of his dark suit and takes a deep breath before going on, "We--we need to talk. Something's...come up." He sounds quite winded as if he ran up several flights of stairs to get here.
Amos plainly gestures towards the living room, "Sit down, take a deep breath, and we'll talk. What's wrong now, huh? I thought that you already took care of it?"
Avi sits down and buries his wrinkly face in his hands. He lifts his head up and blinks. His gray eyes are glassy and unfocused. He breathes in through his nose and responds, "I tried my best. But it's starting to bite me in the tuchus."
Amos sits adjacent to the mortal and regards him with some interest, "I'm listening. Talk to me, Avi. Remember, we're in this together. I can't have you bailing out on me. Not when I'm so fucking close to finishing my business here."
Avi nervously laughs, "Erm...that's gonna have--have to wait."
(The diplomat is a mere mortal aiding Amos- and the Bnei Hashem- in their...shared goals, so to speak. Avi specializes in trade, cultural promotions, visas, and documents. The last two are mainly for the Bnei Hashem Kindred lingering in this Domain like a cancer).
Avi wrings his clammy hands together, "Y--you mind getting me some water? Or something stronger?" He has an expectant look on his face.
The False Assamite shrugs and goes to get his guest a glass of water. Avi hastily gulps it down in one go, with some of the H2O spilling down the sides of his mouth and onto his suit.
Amos grimaces at this, "Whoa, what's gotten into you all of a sudden, huh? I thought that we'd already dealt with this, put this whole thing behind us. By now, I was sincerely hoping that it'd be in our rearview mirror- our work here is important and this little...mishap has already set us back enough."
Avi sighs heavily and pinches the bridge of his nose, "It's about that, yeah. I--I need your help."
Amos shakes his head and lightly scoffs, "You slapped my hand away the first time I offered. What changed, hmm?" A certain smugness laces his words.
The diplomat shakes his head back at him, "Sneer all you want, Amos. But we--we need each other. And right now, I--I need your uh...expertise. You and that girlfriend of yours."
Amos chuckles derisively, "Allison isn't my girlfriend, hahahaha! Don't ever let her hear you say that. Ah, shit, Avi...that got a good laugh outta me." He rubs his eyes a little.
Avi is getting all jittery and agitated again. His fingers keep tapping on his thighs and he keeps nervously looking around the room.
Amos not-so-gently clears his throat.
The mortal diplomat takes a deep breath, "I have a problem with this mechanic. After the...the...y'know, I panicked. Who wouldn't, right? So, I uh...drove around and drove some more until I came across this garage that was still open. Some Hispanic guy was there. I had to fork out quite a bit of...this." He rubs his thumb across his middle and index fingers.
"Huh. Go on."
"His name's...Eddie Rivera-Torres. The guy who fixed up my car after--goddammit, I can't even bring myself to--to say it."
Amos plainly says it for him, "After you flattened that hillbilly kid and fled the scene of the crime."
Avi averts his gaze, "Hmph. Yeah. After...that. Eddie fixed my ride up really good. He asked questions about the dent and the blood, but I told him that I uh...hit an animal and that my eyesight's been shit- old man troubles. He bought it. I think. But he asked for a lot more money."
"Interesting. Apart from Eddie the mechanic, does anybody else know of your little indiscretion?"
"Nobody. I swear. Well--well, apart from you and Allison, of course. What the fuck else was I supposed to do, huh?"
"Your diplomatic immunity is, in theory, supposed to protect you from any kind of legal troubles, right?"
"Yeah, but...they'll bray for my fucking blood like donkeys, Amos!"
The vampire concedes with a sharp nod, "True. Our people don't need any more blood libels- too much of that shit in the past. Not anymore. Never again. I'm gonna ask you again and this time, I want a straight answer. Apart from Eddie, does ANYONE else know? Was there anybody else in the garage?"
Avi shakes his head, "He was alone when I pulled in. My heart was--was pounding, but I had to act cool, y'know? So, I paid the money and then left. But he's...asking for more. I dunno if he put the pieces together or what."
Amos balls his hand into a fist and nods again, "And now you want me to take care of it, right?"
Avi shakily breathes out, "Y--you or Allison."
"In these past few weeks, how much have you been paying to buy that mechanic's silence?"
"..."
Amos purses his lips, "Hm. Fair enough."
Avi grumbles, "Eddie is--isn't blackmailing me. No. He's treating me like his fucking ATM. I agreed to pay the fucker in--in installments. I don't know what I was thinking, but after...wh--what happened, I completely zoned out and let myself go on autopilot for a bit."
"I can imagine. Now, you wish for a more...permanent solution. I'm gonna ask you again, Avi...were there any other witnesses? Did anyone see what you did?"
The diplomat locks eyes with Amos and says, "N--no. I swear. I swear on everything that is good and right. I swear on my own fuckin' bubbe's grave, if it'd help--"
Amos licks his lips and makes an encouraging gesture with his hands, "Alright, then. Calm down. I've taken care of you thus far, haven't I? Us Jews, we have to stick together no matter what. We have to take good care of each other- nobody else is gonna do it for us."
Avi hurriedly nods, "I know, I know. I need you to get rid of my problem, Amos. Before this mechanic gets wise and puts the pieces together. So far, he doesn't seem any wiser than a schnauzer. But..."
Amos grimly muses, "With each and every passing night that he continues to draw breath, he could very well be putting the pieces together; we can't allow that to happen. Gimme his address."
Avi gulps, "Right now, he'd be at his garage. All alone. I passed by it on my way here. He works really late. I--I dunno what you're gonna do, but I don't want my name- let alone my involvement- anywhere near what's gonna go down next. I know all too well what happens."
"Hm. You are absolutely right to be cautious and I'm glad that you're smart enough to already begin distancing yourself. We've come this far Avi. What happened with Tyler whatever-his-last-name-was was...unfortunate. But this is war. That kid, in the grand scheme of things, barely registers as collateral damage- just another unremarkable goy."
Avi nods along, "Yeah, just--just another goy. Plenty of 'em to go around."
Amos waggles his finger at the mortal, "If it were under different circumstances, I'd kill you where you stand for running a kid over and leaving him to die. Luckily for you, I need your help. And, heh, you need mine."
Avi mumbles, "We're in this together."
"That we certainly are, my friend." He tosses a pad and a pen to the mortal and wordlessly instructs him to jot down the garage's address.
Avi's hand trembles as he scribbles it down, but he gets the job done all the same. Amos's dead eyes scan over the address. He lets out a slight grunt, nods to himself, and tosses the pad aside.
The mortal stares at the vampire expectantly.
Amos bluntly says, "Consider it done. I'll head out once you make yourself scarce. Anything else you wanna tell me. Truth be told, I hadn't expected you to fuck up this royally. Instead of wasting money on this mechanic, you should've IMMEDIATELY come to me- we would've had this taken care of MUCH SOONER!"
Avi recoils as those last words are shouted directly at his face. He raises his hands in a defensive posture and squints, "I--I'm sorry. OK?! I wasn't thinking straight! My--my head was spinning. All I was worried about- at that fucking moment- was to get the hell outta there. Not much of a 'diplomatic' move, I'll give you that."
Amos shakes his head and tsks, "Tsk. It's done. Unlike you, I intend to be wholly transparent. You're gonna wanna be relaxed for what I'm about to drop on you next. And no, it's not good news. If anything, it further complicates things. And that's the last goddamn thing that I need right now."
Avi scratches his neck and gives the immortal fiend his undivided attention. He makes a silent gesture with his hands that signifies Amos to continue.
"Hm. A Private Investigator by the name of Lena Adams is...looking into your handiwork. Now, now, don't jump outta your seat just yet. So far, she's not on the trail. And we are gonna keep it that way. I am gonna keep it that way. I want a favor from you- and this is important."
"Shit! Shit! Are--are you sure that she isn't already crawling up my ass?! Should I triple my security--"
Amos glowers at his guest, "Will you please shut the fuck up and listen to me for once in your goddamn life? Geez. She's not onto you just yet. And I have a few plans to stall her--"
Avi blurts out, "Waste her, too!!"
The False Assamite sighs heavily, "It's not that simple, I'm afraid. Hey, maybe you have a point, but let ME and Allison take care of this Lena lady, OK? I want a favor from you. I want you to make some calls to your intelligence pals and get them to give you whatever they have on this PI. I want the works and I know that you can deliver on that front."
Avi rubs the base of his neck, "Th--that shouldn't be too hard. I got some contacts in the Mossad and the CIA. Yeah, sure, I can absolutely get you some dirt on this PI. Hell, it's probably the least I can do after...uh...what happened."
Amos has an oddly serene look on his face as he says, "Good. And I'm also gonna need you to get those visas approved a lot faster. We don't appreciate the slowdowns, Avi. Your people need you."
Avi clicks his tongue, "I was working with some synagogues on organizing some fundraisers for the IDF. That's just as important as whatever you've got going on over here, right?"
Amos equably says, "Of course. Always. Our brave soldiers deserve the best and nothing but the best. Indulge me, how much money did you blow off on this Eddie creature?"
"Not much, honestly. He wanted cash. Didn't do wire transfers. In retrospect, I--I guess that he knew that I was acting kinda squirrelly when I brought my car into his garage."
"Hmm. Why didn't you just keep driving?"
"And how the fuck would I explain the dent and the blood to consulate staff, huh? My diplomatic immunity would protect my tuchus, sure, but if other people got word of it...if the media got their hands on this story, I'd be lynched, feathered, skinned, and tarred by half this goddamn city!"
"Heh. You're not wrong there, Avi. And I know the history of our people well enough to know that the goyim won't just stop with you- it'll turn into a full-scale pogrom."
(Hyperbole much?)
The murderous diplomat lowers his head, "And in these past few months, I've--I've come to think of myself as more than just a humble representative of the state of Israel. Getting to know you, Allison, and what you stand for...it's been enlightening, to say the least. It feels like we have common goals, a common cause."
Amos comments, "We're Jews. We're stuck with each other, no matter how far apart we are. That's why we need Israel. Because when the shit hits the fan- and it will- we'll all have a place to go. We were never meant to be among the goyim for such a long time. Just look where it got us, right?"
Avi shrugs a shoulder, "Eh. Sure, I guess. I can't help myself...what exactly are you gonna do to the mechanic?"
Amos glares at him in a manner that could best be described as withering, "Having second thoughts? I'm not sending Allie in for this one- she makes too much of a mess sometimes. Don't worry, I'm personally taking care of this problem."
"And the PI? What if she gets wise, huh? What if she, somehow, gets the info on you, me, and the rest of this m--messy shitshow?"
"Stop kvetching; it's beneath you. That shiksa won't be poking her nose into our business- not if I can help it. I got some ideas. Now, can we not repeat ourselves over and over again??"
Avi sighs heavily, "It's not just my ass on the line. If--if I go down--"
Amos springs up from his seat, puts his hands on the mortal's shoulders, and interrupts him, "--then you go down alone. Now, quit the negative attitude and grow a fucking pair of balls already. Show some grit, man! It's unbecoming of a fellow Jew to act like this! You remind me of my dead wife, and I DO NOT LIKE TO BE REMINDED OF HER!!"
Avi trembles under the vampire's preternatural grip (and dreadful aura) but manages to choke out, "Right, right. S--sorry!"
Amos shoves him back and sits down once again, "My work here is not yet done. Far from it, in fact."
Avi remarks, "Y--you're a real mensch, aren't you? Y'know, till now, I still don't know what it is you've got planned. I don't know what the endgame is, but it's...in the interests of Israel and--and the Jewish people everywhere, right, right?"
The False Assamite asserts, "You'll see it for yourself once it has been realized. No one will be able to stand in our way once we're done here. We will have freed ourselves from a great burden. But only if we adhere to our roles and don't get ourselves carried away. Keep your wits about you, Avi."
"Hmm. And I--I don't have to tell you the same thing. So, I heard you recently bought this entire building, huh? Not bad. A testament to your...hmm, success and...business acumen."
Amos smirks proudly, "There's a reason why us Jews have such a reputation for being shrewd moneymakers. Heh. I got this and a few other properties scattered all over the Domai--city. Some people still try and goldbrick me when rent's due. Needless to say, I get rid of 'em pretty quickly."
Avi inquires, "Any issues on that front? You need any help with the paperwork?"
Amos states, "I have you on speed dial, old man. Now, go on. Get outta here. You look like you could use some rest. Consider your problem dealt with by the time you go to bed tonight. And sleep easy knowing that we have one less problem to worry about."
"And the other one? I'd sleep like a baby if you'd--"
Amos lifts his hand up, "If she somehow gets wise, then Allie will personally put her in the ground. She's a damn good shot, Avi. She never misses her mark. Like I said, don't worry about it."
The mortal diplomat asks, "Are you coming to shul this week?"
"I'll try."
"We could use a guy like you to inspire the younger generation- strong, successful, not afraid to get his hands dirty if he has to. In these modern times, I think that we need more guys like you."
Amos loves a good ass-kissing as much as the next motherfucker, so he smiles broadly, "I'll think about it. I'm busy. But I still make time- whenever I can- to keep the Sabbath, pray, and honor my family's traditions."
Avi warily glances around the room, "Hmm. We're all on our own journey- spiritual or otherwise. And, regardless of what has happened, it has been an honor to work alongside you. I may not know what the endgame is yet, but I hope that I'll be there when it's finally realized."
Amos calmly reassures him, "Don't worry. If I have to, I'll make sure that you stick around. Until then, do your part, and try to avoid unnecessary fuckups. You don't want us having to clean up after you too much, right?"
Avi fervently nods, "Right, right. How's Allison doing?"
The Bnei Hashem flatly responds, "You know her address, Avi. Why don't you swing by unannounced, hmm? She loves a good surprise and she's an even better host."
"She is very sweet, ain't she? Are you...?"
Amos snorts, "No. Oh, wow. No. Absolutely not. Don't get me wrong, she's a really pretty girl and all, but I'm not attracted to her. Let's just say that...I have other ways of propagating my lineage. So does Allie. She's great for what she does- and what she does, she does well."
Avi smiles lecherously, "Aha! I...see."
Amos shoots him a slightly perturbed look, "What?"
"Never mind. I--I should haul my tush outta here. I got some free time, so I'll work on those documents for all your uh...friends. Sound good?"
"You're a real mensch, Avi Shipman. I'll see you around. Feel free to close the door behind you."
"Cool. See ya!"
The vampire calls after him, "And Avi? When things have been taken care of...you'll know. And you're welcome." A certain menacing undertone laces those last few words.
As soon as the diplomat leaves, Amos puts his face in his hands and groans wearily. He trills his lips and gets himself ready for the macabre night ahead. He puts on a t-shirt, jeans, and work boots.
While heading out, he grabs a large knife. He has that disturbingly determined look etched all over his pale face. And it's not the Hunger of the Beast within that compels him.
This is something else entirely. Something malevolent and twisted.
As he starts up his sedan, he mutters to himself, "Most people never have to face the fact that at the right time and right place, they're capable of anything. Any-fucking-thing."
The engines of the sedan roar to life. Amos exits the musty basement and floors it.
Not even an hour later, Amos strolls into the garage where he knows the mortal mechanic is bound to be alone. Eddie has his welding mask on and is busy working on a small chassis of some kind. The only light sources come from a pair of bare light bulbs that dangle over him.
The garage's interior is quite muggy and grimy. Oily stains are strewn all over the dirty concrete floor. As Amos walks closer, he can see an assortment of old tools (spanners, hammers, wrenches, screwdrivers, you name it) scattered about on the worktable to Eddie's right.
The oil pit looks like it was recently cleaned. The lone mortal is whistling a cheery tune as he goes about his business.
Amos raps his knuckles on the table, causing Eddie to nearly jump out of his skin. He pulls up his welding mask and squints at him.
"C--can I help you, mister?"
Amos puts on a calmer facade, "Yeah, hi. My name's John Rollins. I'm a reporter with Vice. This is a bit awkward, but my car broke down and I REALLY need it up and running. Could you possibly take a look at it? It's only a block away from here."
Eddie casts a suspicious glance at him, "Uhh...sure. Do you have any idea what went wrong?"
Amos shrugs, "It just spurted and abruptly stopped in the middle of the street. Like I said, I'm a reporter, and I REALLY need to be on my way right now. So, if you wouldn't mind coming with me..."
The mechanic gulps, wipes his brow with the back of his hand, and says, "Fine. Lemme just get washed up. How come you didn't call a tow truck or something?"
Amos impatiently licks his lips, "This was the closest garage I could find. And to be honest, I'm working on something really important. I lost my cellular phone in a...uh...scuffle. Just the perks of being on the cutting-edge of modern journalism, y'know."
Eddie frowns, "A scuffle?"
Amos waves his hand dismissively, "Eh, you should see the other guys, haha! Now, c'mon. Just around the block, buddy. I'll pay extra. Money is no object for me."
Eddie puts down his welding mask and scratches his neck. When he hears that, he quickens his pace, "O--OK, Mr. Rollins." It's not because of greed but rather an unwillingness to press the issue further. And busters like Ed do need the money more than they'd care to admit.
(Amos does look pretty intimidating, if nothing else!)
Sirens wail in the background. They fade away as soon as Eddie returns. He wipes his soaking wet hands and grabs a toolbox. He puts his cap on backwards and motions for the man who is going to be his murderer to lead the way.
"Let's have a look, shall we? So, where you from, hmm? I get started with my pottery classes tomorrow..."
Once they arrive at the location, Amos quickly surveys his surroundings to ensure that no one is nearby- he made sure to avoid getting spotted on any surveillance cameras (or onlookers, for that matter) on the way here. He opens the trunk and pulls the knife out while poor Eddie takes a look at the engine.
The mortal quizzically glances at the innards of the vampire's sedan. He mutters something or the other under his breath. Within an instant, he feels the sharp blade lodge itself into his stomach. Blood starts to pour out from his mouth.
Amos bares his fangs and twists the blade. Eddie looks at him with wide eyes and lets out a small whimper as he attempts to grapple with his attacker.
His killer.
Eddie's pitiful attempt at resisting this preternatural menace only draws the knife deeper into his abdomen. Another squelching sound pierces the night air. And then another.
Ed puts his hands on the broad-shouldered psychopath and tries to shove him away, but Amos shoves him onto the ground, pins him down with his sturdy legs, and starts viciously stabbing him. Over and over and over again.
Eddie can't even scream. With each brutal stab, he feels the life slowly seep out of him. His vision is horribly blurry, but he still can make out some of the details. Glowing green eyes stare down at him with sheer malice behind them.
Amos finally stabs Eddie's neck. He doesn't stop until the blood spurts all over his face and clothing. As his victim bleeds out, the Bnei Hashem opens his mouth and attempts to lap up as much of the mortal's spurting blood as he possibly can.
Once Amos is done with the gruesomely grisly deed, he stands up with a heaving groan and looks at how bloodied he has become.
Eddie twitches for a moment or two, but it doesn't take long before he grows still. Completely still.
Amos derisively snarks, "Looks like you won't be coming for pottery classes tomorrow. Too bad, pal. Too fuckin' bad. Still, at least you got to meet a Kindred before you croaked."
He looks up at the night sky and screeches like a feral animal. A nearby stray cat yowls in terror and scampers away from this mysterious creature of the nocturnal hours. Amos's Beast WANTS more; it's Hunger will never be satiated, after all.
"Shut up. Just...shut up. I gotta take care of the body first. Or...I could just leave it here."
His Beast impels him to leave the mangled corpse and seek out a new victim. And there is no shortage of prey to choose from in the bustling metropolis of Magnolia City. Amos grunts, huffs terribly, and pulls himself together.
He can't lose control now. But his Beast's eternal demands scratch away at the innermost parts of his psyche- or whatever is left of it.
So, Mr. Greenberg gets in his car, starts it up, and swerves onto the road. Eddie's dead body is left lying on the ground. Someone will soon stumble upon the corpse.
But consequences be damned- Amos couldn't care if his handiwork was discovered. It's done; Eddie won't ever talk again. And that's what matters most to these foul fucking bastards.
The wailing sirens have gotten louder again. The ambulance speeds past him as he cruises by a nearby liquor store. Police cruisers follow after the ambulance, going in the opposite direction that the False Assamite came from.
Once again, Amos gets out of his car, checks his surroundings, and quickly makes his way into the alleyway near the liquor store. With his fangs and claws fully borne, he speedily charges into the closest warm-bodied mortal that he sees.
Much, much later...
Amos is back in the comfort of his duplex penthouse. He is freshly showered and is currently lounging on his sofa while wearing a soft, teal-colored bathrobe. In one hand, he has a hand-grip strengthener which he routinely squeezes till it almost snaps.
He frequently does this whenever he wants to keep his Beast in check and prevent himself from Frenzying completely. And so far, it's working. He can still control his (inexcusable) actions.
Amos is still in control of his rancid self. A knock on his front door snaps him out of his murderous musings- his repulsive reverie. He quickly puts his toy down and loudly calls out, "IT'S OPEN!"
Allison pokes her head in and grins at him, "Hey! Looking good. I swear, if you flash me--"
"Just get inside and lock the damn door."
The other False Assamite obliges. She shuts the door behind her, flips the latch, and slips off her boots. She throws herself on the couch and sighs heavily, "Geez. Tough night, huh? Social media's abuzz- they found some Hispanic guy stabbed to death. No sign of a murder weapon. The cops got nothing to go on."
Amos smirks fiendishly, "I'll explain everything, Allie. In the meantime, I got Avi digging into that nosy PI shiksa."
Allison clicks her tongue, "Why don't we just kill her as well?"
"We have to be sure about a few things first. If she knows something or is even remotely onto us, then we're only opening up a huge can of worms. We keep her at arm's length. And that's where you come in."
"Me??"
"While you were taking your time coming here, I was doing some, shall we say, research of my own. It seems that Miss Akira is...ah, lemme just show you. I don't have the patience to explain this shit. Hey, grab my phone, would ya?"
Allie pulls out the charging cable and gives him his device. He unlocks it with his fingerprint and explains, "I was scrolling through her Facebook. Here, why don't you spend a few minutes looking at what I was looking at, huh?"
Allison snatches the phone from her fellow murderous psycho and hums some bland tune while idly scrolling through Lena's public Facebook profile. She notices that there's a small photo of Lena with another woman who looks somewhat similar to her.
She muses, "Huh. I see. How intriguing. I think I know where this is headed. I can't say that I like where this is going, but I trust you, Amos. Still, I think we should just take the risk and kill her while we still have the chance."
Amos interjects, "And deal with the potential fallout if we're wrong? Just keep looking...you haven't gotten to the juicy parts yet. Keep scrolling. You'll see what I mean, heh-heh."
A plan is slowly forming in his mind. A sinister and loathsome plan that might prove to be a gamechanger of sorts.
Allison impatiently clears her throat and points out, "I know that look. C'mon, talk to me! What do you have planned for this bitch?" She pauses for a moment or two.
"Word on the street is that the others have used her. Other Kindred. So, you can understand why I'm not so keen on having you cut her neck just yet. Soon, sure. But not now. And yes, you'll get to watch her blood spurt out like a fountain. Until then..."
Allison smiles at the mental image he has put in her head, "Until then, I gotta get my kicks elsewhere, huh?"
He languidly gestures to his fellow vampire, "Well, you're pretty busy- just pace yourself out. I know that you can get 'em all at once, but that would only serve to incur more suspicion from our...erstwhile partners. Also, it might start to become a problem."
"Hmm. So, this Lena. I think I know how you want me to deal with her."
"Lemme hear it from you to see if you got it down pat." He knows that Allison can be VERY adept when it comes to this sort of shit.
Allison dryly states, "You want me to be gay for her. Gay for pay."
Amos chuckles and nods, "That's the idea down to a tee, Allie. You still have it in you, huh? Even after all this time. And it doesn't hurt that you're a great shot as well. But you're gonna have to scale that part of your personality down a bit. But the other thing? The arts and shit? Yeah, lean into that."
Allie nods and bites her lower lip, "Huh, sure. So, the plan is to...seduce her, get in her good graces...and her panties, find out what she knows, and kill her if necessary."
Amos grimaces, "Except the last part. Right now, I'd prefer if you just stalled her. Find out what makes this shiksa tick- you can only learn so much from a Facebook profile- and whatever Avi's gonna dig up on her."
Allison gesticulates and muses, "Some nights, I feel gay. I feel like a Toreador, a Malkavian. Sometimes, I feel like a redhead. Other times, I feel like an Ethiopian. And there are times when I even feel...alive. Tonight, I feel like an immigrant. Tomorrow, I may feel like I am disabled, who knows? And the night after that, I may feel like a man, or worse, an Italian."
Amos snickers at this utterly banal and meaningless diatribe of hers, "Don't just pop up outta the blue and message the bitch. Be subtle about it. And don't approach her on the street like some kinda wide-eyed hobo, either. Use your head."
She scoffs at him, "I always use my head- even when it hurts. I got a good grip on her. I don't know if my dead pussy will be able to get a reaction outta her. And what's more, we'll have to keep in mind that she might know something- something that can blow our covers."
"I don't need reminding about the Masquerade. But yeah, when you're...with her, just make yourself feel more alive, hmm? Put some Blood into it."
"Amos?"
"Hmm?"
"Is it necrophilia??"
Amos rubs his forehead with his palm and groans, "Oh, god. I do not need this kinda shit right now. What--what the fuck even spurred this on? Just stop it, Allie. It's all fake and pointless to our kind, anyway. And nigh impossible."
Ms. Moretta chuckles heartily, seeming to get a kick out of Amos's irritation. She assures him, "Relax. I'm a professional. I don't develop feelings for my...assignments. But if Lena...Adams gets to be too much of a problem, I'm cutting her neck. Or maybe I'll take my sweet time while draining every last drop of her blood. Oh, the choices, the choices..."
Mr. Greenberg reminds her, "Not until I explicitly give you the go-ahead. Until then, it's strictly...uh...recon. Yeah."
"Fuck-con, more like. And if she turns me down?"
He groans again, "Oh, god. Just lay on the charm, sheesh. Look, all this LGBTABCDEFG stuff is a headache to keep up with- they keep adding new letters every week! Look at some dirty videos online and see how they act. That's your best bet. Talk about how different each shiksa is and all that."
Allison grabs Amos's phone and notes, "Ah, she's...been around the block. Hm. Slut. I can work with this. Gay for pay, hmm? And what exactly do you intend to pay me with? Magic beans??"
Muscle man shrugs, "I dunno, do you accept that as a form of payment? Oh, and avoid using your maiden name. I don't think that 'Morenstein' will catch her attention. But we can only assume so much. To her, you'll be Allison Moretta. Easier that way, even though I don't like that kind of erasure."
"I have become all things unto all men...and women...and others."
Amos giggles lightly, "Yeah, hah! That's right! Now, go on. Get outta here. I got some company coming over. Hey, you're welcome to stay and all, but..."
Allie plugs his phone back in, stands up, and jests, "I'm gay for pay, not bi for free. Or het for...ah, my train of thought drifted." She has a glint of amusement in her dead eyes.
He sighs and waves her off without saying anything. It's times like these where he just can't deal with the oddball antics of the other False Assamite.
A few minutes later...
In hobbles none other than Laurence Lancaster, Whip to the Nosferatu Primogen. The Nossie is dressed in a fine suit that accentuates his deformed frame quite nicely. He waddles into Amos's living room and lowers himself onto the couch with a pained grunt.
Amos looks at him with a modicum of pity, "I take it that finding the place wasn't too hard, Mr. Lancaster?"
"You own the whole damn building, huh?"
"That I do, sir. And many like it all over this Domain. Yeah, drink it all up- I've been in this city for a long time." Amos proudly extends his arms and puffs his chest out a little.
Laurence gets straight to the point, "Well, I think it's high time that we came to an agreement. If Otto won't deal with you, then maybe I will. I want an alliance- Banu Haqim and Nosferatu."
Amos winces when those two words are said, "It's Bnei Hashem. Don't make the same mistake twice. The so-called 'Banu Haqim' are the fakes, the posers, the liars. It's ALWAYS been the Bnei Hashem. The greatest act of Jewish erasure in Kindred Society was supplanting US with those...animals!!"
He balls his hands into fists and lets out a loud grunt, "Those...fucking...liars!! It HAS ALWAYS BEEN THE BNEI HASHEM! NEVER EVER...EVER FUCKING AGAIN...will I ever utter the word 'Assamite'! And I sure as hell won't be called one!"
Laurence remains oddly composed, "Uh-huh. Whatever makes you feel better. Forgive me for making that error. Bnei Hashem it is."
(There's historical revisionism and then there's Amos Greenberg and the Bnei Hashem).
Amos's seething rage subsides. He gathers his thoughts and offers, "I'll be your eyes and ears in places where neither your eyes nor ears can reach. Heh. And I've got enough connections lined up to make you people blush. All you gotta do is ask."
The Nossie approvingly remarks, "You seem to know how this game is played, huh? Otto's not gonna be too pleased that I went behind his back like this, but...screw it. We might as well solidly this alliance. Now, I may not have been a Kindred for as long as you have, but I am no fool, Mr. Greenberg."
"Oh, I'm sure of it. In the grand scheme of things, I am just a facilitator."
"Of what?"
The question lingers in the air while the False Assamite smirks fiendishly without replying right away. When he does respond, he speaks very slowly and deliberately, "That's not really for you to be privy to. Yet. And don't go around poking your snouts where they don't belong. Because if you do, I'll know."
He leans closer and warns, "And I'll be a very, very sad man if that happens. And you don't ever wanna make me sad, do you? You don't wanna see me when I'm at my lowest, pal."
The two stare at each other for a few moments before Laurence is the first one to break eye contact. He sniffs loudly and assents, "Hrmf. Fair enough. Are you absolutely certain that you- and your people- can offer our Clan some support? You're not just all talk, right?"
Amos shrugs, "Only one way to find out. And what can YOU offer us, hm?"
Laurence ponders for a moment before saying, "We can make sure that you aren't interrupted by prying eyes or...prickly ears. You get our protection; we get your knowledge. If we're in the mood, you'll get some of our secrets, too. And it's only fair that I warn ya..."
He lifts his chin and growls, "Cross us, and we'll gut you from stem to stern. In this city, the Nosferatu do not fuck around."
Amos bites his lower lip and smiles widely, "My kinda crowd! C'mon...let's shake on it."
He does grimace when he feels how slimy and slippery Laurence's hand is. It's quite...grody. Still, he isn't deterred from having to forge this new alliance.
Mr. Lancaster pulls his twisted hand away and queries, "And what about our mutual acquaintance?"
"He and my Allison are getting pretty chummy, yeah. Pretty close. And no, I don't even wanna think about them getting any closer than is absolutely necessary. Ugh, the mental images alone. No--no offense to you people and all."
The Leper waves his hand dismissively, "I've been subject to worse, Mr. Greenberg. But it's all water off my back. I outlive them, I outlast them, hell, I probably own the building that they live in, huh?"
Amos agrees and jokes, "Makes for good protection, yeah. And I'm not slowing down- I got my eyes on a few more places. Downtown, uptown, wherever. the property values have fuckin' skyrocketed lately. You people know that better than anyone else, right?"
Laurence shrugs, "We sure do. And I gotta ask...is your paperwork in order? From a legal point of view?"
Amos seems to find that quite funny and guffaws, "I like to keep things 'legit', but as long as the money keeps rolling in and the rents get paid on time, I don't really care if my places are up to code or not. Y'know, the Court thinks that it knows me. All those self-righteous Salubri pricks--"
"Prince Cedric and his people have been good to our Clan, Amos. We don't necessarily wanna mess that up. Unless you can offer something substantial, we don't make a single goddamn move against the Salubri."
The Bnei Hashem snickers, "Fair enough, fair enough. Now, sit back and relax. Let's talk terms, hmm? Don't worry, we got time. Unless you have other places to be tonight? And hey...is that blood that I see on your lapel?" He squints and leans closer to get a better look.
Laurence moves away from him, "It's none of your concern, Greenberg. Certain...issues mean that transporting our meals in live form is easier said than done. A little disruption in our routes and what have you. We're open to any solutions that you people can offer us."
Amos rubs his chin, "I'll look into it from my end. Let's get into the nitty-gritty of our budding alliance, hmm?"
Mr. Lancaster dryly grunts, "Hm. Let's." The Neonate cannot wait to do some independent scheming.
So, it looks like the Clan of the Hidden is now (via Laurence Lancaster, at least) in league with the Bnei Hashem. Otto Weinbauer had his reasons for being skeptical about entering into such an arrangement with Amos Greenberg.
To him, the Bnei Hashem are more trouble than they're worth. If nothing else, the Nossie Primogen perceives them as being far too disruptive to a status quo that has served the Clan rather well for many decades now.
On the other hand, Amos has scored himself a valuable new ally in the form of the Nosferatu Whip to the Primogen. Risky (and ballsy), but in this Great Game, taking risks is almost like a prerequisite.
Risks that often involve innocent lives, livelihoods, bodies, and minds...but hey, it's all just collateral damage in the grand scheme of things, right?
To such moneyed monsters, it barely even registers as being wrong to just commit unspeakable crimes against other human beings. Besides, that's simply the nature of the profit system as a whole.
Decades of dog-eat-dog dogma, survival of the fittest, nice people finish last, success at all costs, winning no matter who (or what), and other such foul notions have warped the certain vamps beyond any semblance of recognition. They have lost so much Humanity that the Beast crawls right under their very skin.
And mortals themselves are far from immune to the ongoing socio-economic processes constantly at work. We cannot escape history, and only a fool thinks otherwise.