Title: The Nightcrawler's Collection Of Sapphic Erotica
By: The Nightcrawler
Writing Start Date: Somewhere in 2023
Writing End Date: ongoing
Fandoms: N/A
Fetishes/Kinks/What's Inside: Breastfeeding, Lactation, Erotic Lactation, Kissing, Making Out, Cunnilingus, Oral Sex, Step stuff, Other
Genre(s): Erotica, Modern, Romance, Tender, Passionate, Sensual
Summary: An assorted collection of lesbian erotica written under a psuedonym. All characters are OCs (unless otherwise stated) and are at or far above the age of 20 (ALWAYS). Safe, Sane, and Enthusiastically Consensual. Meant for fine folks with good hearts and curious minds ;-) Updates periodically. Each "chapter" is a self-contained story which might or might not have plot.
Content/Trigger Warnings: Strong Language, Sexual Content/Scenes, Full & Partial Nudity, Substance Consumption, and so on. It varies from fic to fic.
Mirrors/Alternative Places To Read:
Additional Notes: I'll read your requests, ideas, and/or suggestions for ideas and stuff, but there's no guarantee I'll fulfill them. Also, I only write for specific "things". Lastly, the old adage holds true: "Don't Like? Don't Engage With It."
Inspirations (Not ALL of them, just the main ones):
Uh..."some" of the stuff from like GirlsWay, Girlfriends Films, Mommy's Girl, Adult Time, Sweetheart Video, AllHerLuv, SheSeducedMe, etc.
...pornos mainly (pls don't judge).
Story 1: Tits, Tits, Tits | {generic/vanilla, first-person POV}
Note: One of the first things I ever wrote! First-Person POV.
We go into the bedroom, lock the door, and take off our clothes. I undid her bra and let her breasts breathe. I step out of my panties and leave them on the floor.
I started sucking those tits! 1, 2, 3! The girl has a really nice pair! Then we are naked. Her body is nice and curvy. She's just wearing a G-string bra that doesn't even cover half of her tits.
Maybe that's why she likes to show them off so much? Anyway, she gets on top of me and starts riding me. "Oh God! You're so good!" she moans as I keep sucking those sweet tits.
She starts bucking up and down and pushing her tits against my face, trying to get more tongue action. It's great! Then she asks if I can lick her pussy. Her up there and me lying back on the bed.
What do you think?
Of course, I say yes! So I laid down waited for her. She straddles my hips with her legs and puts her crotch in my face. This time it's pussy licking instead of boob licking. But, hey, I ain't complaining!
I don't know how long we went at it like this. We must have been pretty loud because I swear I heard someone knocking on the door. They must not be aware that we are having sex right now!
Finally, though, I feel myself getting close to an orgasm and tell her to keep at it. And she does! Thank you!
Now it's my turn again. So I sit up and tell her to get ready for some serious pleasure. Well, it wasn't anything like I expected. But this time she fingers me and sucks my tits simultaneously! That was incredible!
She did it all while moving her pelvis around in circular motions. My goodness!
She started moaning and panting. I looked at her and said, "Do you think your roommate heard us?"
The girl replied with a seductive smile and then told me, "Yeah! I'm pretty sure she heard something."
Afterwards, we laid close next to each other for a few minutes, and I put my head on those beautiful tits (I just couldn't get enough of them). We talked a bit about ourselves in the middle of some light kissing.
Apparently, she lives here alone too and goes to college nearby. She studies business administration and doesn't plan on leaving soon. Which means we'll probably see each other around sometime!
I hope so!
As we were lying there, I thought about all the fun we had today and decided to give her a goodnight kiss. She didn't protest at all and even wrapped her arms around me. I think we might have something special after all.
She asked me to stay over since she knew I was late and I could sleep in tomorrow. Sure, I said. I gave her a big kiss (a tongue kiss, of course) and fell asleep in those sweet, soft tits of hers! Ahh... bliss!
On Friday morning, I wake up with the sun shining through the window onto her tits. "Awww, it's so cute," I said. I saw her in all her beauty. What a sight.
I drifted back to sleep for a few minutes, but I was woken up by a kiss on the forehead. "Wake up, sleepyhead!" she said, giggling. She placed my head on her tits (again) and held me closer and tighter.
Later she started kissing my neck. Wow! Now I know what a real wake-up call feels like!
I gave her one last nipple-suck before we finally got dressed. She walked me out of her room and showed me to the elevator. We kissed goodbye and promised to meet again soon. She asked if we could spend some time together another day.
I nodded in the affirmative and gave her another huge kiss! I am going to miss those awesome tits!
"Bye!" she called from the hallway and smiled as she watched me walk away.
It was an amazing time. A tit-tastic time! We were more than friends; we were breast-friends! Breast buddies! If there's ever another opportunity for a second date, I will take it!
Anyway, that's all for now. Goodbye!
Story 2: The Erotic Adventure of Sarah Gold and Evelyn Meyers | {breastfeeding, adventure}
Note: Breastfeeding somewhere in the ruins. Very amateurish writing due to the fact I was still a newbie at this whole thing at the time.
2 brave women, Sarah and Eve, embark on an epic journey into the depths of the jungle. Armed with nothing but their curiosity and determination, they set out to explore the unknown and uncover its secrets.
Along the way, they face dangerous obstacles and face their fears, as they fight to survive the harsh conditions of the jungle.
Join them on their journey as they explore the mysteries of the unknown and discover the the blossoming romance that has been waiting for them all along.
Sarah scribbles a few words on her diary: "When I awoke the next morning, my head was throbbing from the previous day's events. My body ached from sleeping in a tent all night and every muscle in my body was tense. The sun was rising over the horizon and I could see that it would be another hot day. A few drops of rain fell outside my tent, which made me groan at the thought of having to endure yet another humid day in the jungle."
She continues jotting: "I dressed quickly and exited my tent. There were many trees around us and I saw a small stream nearby so I decided to walk there for some fresh water. It had rained during the night, making everything wet, but the ground was still damp from the previous day's rain. As I walked through the woods, I heard something rustling behind me and I suddenly felt scared."
She stops for a moment before continuing: "Before I knew what was happening, a large, gray-brown creature jumped onto my back. The claws dug into my skin and it hissed loudly in my ear. I screamed as loud as I could and tried to stand up, but I couldn't move. It was too heavy and strong."
Sarah struggled and fought, trying to push the beast off of her, but it held fast. Suddenly, Eve emerged from her tent, machete in hand and charged the beast. She swung the blade down hard across its neck, severing its spine.
The beast fell dead to the ground and Eve asked Sarah if she was OK. Sarah sat there stunned by what just happened.
Eve said, "Sarah, hey, look at me, you OK?"
"Yes," Sarah replied in between her shivering. "Th--Thank god you came when you did." She looked down at the beast and noticed something strange about it. Its fur wasn't like any animal she had ever seen before; it was thick and black, almost resembling a tiger.
"Ocelot," Eve said, soudning very professional and knowledgeable.
"What is an ocelot?"
"They are very rare creatures found only in South America. They are also known as the smallest species of cougar. Very aggressive and territorial animals; they can grow to be 5 feet long and weigh up to 100 pounds."
"Wow! That thing was huge!"
"It was," Eve said matter-of-factly. "Now, we should get moving. We have just enough food for the day and then we'll be ready to make camp again tonight."
"Yep, lemme catch my breath." Sarah said.
As Eve was turning around, Sarah couldn't help but take a look at Eve's breasts. Her cleavage showing even though she wore a thin shirt. Eve saw her staring at her chest and smiled.
Eve moues, "You're not going to stare at my breasts all day are you?"
Sarah blushed and apologized. Eve blushed a bit as well.
They packed their things and continued walking until they got to the stream. Sarah filled her canteen at the river and drank some water. While she was drinking, she looked around and noticed that everything was covered in leaves and vines.
"Beautiful, isn't it?" Eve asked.
"Yes, it is."
"Wait here while I grab some fresh berries."
Sarah just couldn't help it, she caught another look, this time at Eve's long legs and amazing physique. Wow, she really was curvy.
Eve returned with a hand full of fruit and Sarah thanked her. She took a berry and chewed it slowly as she watched Eve eat hers.
"What you lookin' at?" Eve naughtily asked.
"Just admiring your beauty and um...the way it uh...complements the well, you know...uh...surrounding beauty."
Eve laughed out loud and said, "You aren't the first one to say that, love."
Sarah smiled, "Oh, you have no idea how...um, beautiful you are."
Eve cheekily replied, "I could say the same thing to you."
"No offense or anything," Sarah said, "but I've never met anyone quite like you. You are so strong and yet sweet. And you saved me from that thing back there. I owe you. Really, I do."
"Well, thank you. It's all part of the job."
"OK, Eve."
They both sat there smiling and almost making eye contact. Suddenly, Eve became quiet and seemed deep in thought. She stood up and walked away. Sarah followed her and asked, "Are you OK? Did I say something wrong?"
"No, Sarah. Everything is fine. Let's go."
The 2 kept walking and talking about random subjects until they finally arrived at the campsite. By then, night was rapidly approaching.
Sarah was just emerging from the bushes and that's when Eve saw her, beautiful, blonde, wet, and partially naked. She froze in place and stared. Sarah turned and saw Eve staring at her.
"Eve, I'm sorry. I didn't mean to surprise you. I just went for a quick dip and I must have startled you."
"Sarah, you don't need to apologize. I think you're gorgeous."
"Really?"
"Yes. Your body is amazing and your skin glows. It's so smooth and soft looking. And those big, blue eyes of yours are captivating."
Sarah was a bit flushed, yet she managed to say, "Thank you."
Eve smiled and asked, "I guess you're not used to being complimented?"
"Uh, Not really. Not much. At least, you know, not in a non-creepy way."
"Well, I'm glad you're getting used to it because you deserve it. Now let's get dinner started."
Sarah and Eve began preparing their meal. Eve cut up some vegetables and Sarah cooked them on the fire. Carrots and beans were tonight's fine delicacies (if one could call them that) and Sarah cooked them to perfection. Dinner was served and both explorers ate with great gusto.
Afterward, they washed up and lay down to sleep. As they were talking, Sarah once again looked down at Eve's boobs and noticed that her nipples were poking out of her thin shirt. They were slightly pink and pointing straight towards Sarah. She couldn't believe that she hadn't noticed them earlier.
"See something you like?" Eve asked in a teasing, almost flirtatious tone.
Sarah blushed and said, "No! I uh...it's just that, I haven't uh...never mind."
"Go on?" Eve said, giggling. "Well, I've spent most of my life in the jungle and I've seen my fair share of tits. I know what I'm talkin' about."
Sarah was shocked at Eve's boldness and found herself blushing again.
"What's wrong?" Eve asked.
"Nothing, I just, um--I think we should call it a night. Long day ahead of us tomorrow," Sarah nervously said.
"Heh, sure. Goodnight, Sarah," Eve said, still grinning.
Sarah went into her tent, still flushed, rolled over and closed her eyes. But she couldn't stop thinking about Eve and her beautiful, bouncy tits. She imagined what sucking on them would feel like and she felt her own nipple hardening. Then, she realized that her pussy was getting as wet as her surroundings.
She felt different. She had never thought much of this before and she was totally lost. She didn't even understand what was happening to her. All she was thinking about was about how Eve's tits would feel in her mouth.
She laid there for a moment, trying to calm her racing heart and her erratic breathing. She was so confused. She was so attracted to Eve and she wanted to touch her, kiss her, lick her, cuddle up with her. She wanted to make love to her.
She was so horny and she needed to come badly. But Sarah couldn't figure out why. It all seemed so new, weird, wonderful, and out of her control (for now, at least).
She was about to drift off when she heard Eve moving around outside her tent. Her eyes shot open and she sat up straight. Eve screamed.
"Eve!" Sarah cried, as she scrambled out of her tent. "EVE! WHAT HAPPENED! EVE! YOU OK?"
"Argh!" Eve answered, "it's...I'm not...Sarah, it's--something bit me. Something small and white, I've never seen anything like it before! Where did it go? Argh, damnit! Help!"
Sarah ran towards her friend and saw a small prick on Eve's shoulder- a bug bite or something. Sarah grabbed some twigs and rubbed them on the wound; however, the sting persisted.
"Stop touching it! Let me try something else," Sarah frantically said.
She went into the woods and quickly found some herbs and berries. She collected some and returned to Eve, who was lying on her side, still dazed from the bug bite or whatever that was.
Sarah bent down and placed one of the herbs over the sore spot and covered it with a piece of fabric. Even then, Sarah couldn't resist looking at Eve's cleavage. She noticed that Eve's breasts had swelled up a bit.
"Is this better?" Sarah asked, a look of concern washing over her sweaty face.
"Yes," Eve said, "T--Thank you, Sarah."
Sarah sternly asked her friend, "What the hell were you doing out so late at night!?"
"Going for a walk, checking the area. Y'know," Eve replied.
"Checking the area?!" Sarah said, almost screaming, "You were alone at night in the middle of the forest! There's no coyotes here!"
"Well," Eve said, "Also, making sure you were sleeping well."
"You did?"
"Yeah. It's my job to keep eggheads and nerds like you safe."
Sarah responded as she tightened Eve's bandage, "Pffft, us eggheads and nerds are perfectly capable, you know."
"Oh yeah?" Eve asked, "All brains, eh? So, genius, any idea what that thing was that bit me? I caught a glimpse of it. White insect-like thing. Never seen anything like it in all my time in the jungle."
"I don't know. I wish I could help. Sorry."
"No worries, Sarah," Eve said, smiling in a reassuring way.
Sarah was about to say something more when she noticed that Eve's smile was a little bit bigger than usual, "You OK?" Sarah shakily asked.
Eve looked at her with a curious expression and said, "You're blushing."
"I am not."
"Yes you are. You're also looking at my boobs, again."
Sarah didn't know what to say, so she just nodded her head.
"It's OK," Eve continued, "Now, why don't we catch a bit of shut eye?"
Sarah shyly asked, "Eve, you want me to you know, uh...keep watch in your tent or um...ahem...sleep with you. Not in that kind of way--!"
Eve giggled a bit and interrupted, "Nah, love, I'm a big gal, I can take care of myself."
She paused and then added, "Besides, I wouldn't want those brains of yours to be all tired. Tomorrow, we explore the Lost Ruins. I need you at your 100%"
Sarah replied, "Thanks, Eve. I'll see you in the morning."
Eve turned around and walked towards her tent. Sarah watched her go and soon went back into her own tent to catch what bit of sleep she could catch after a night of fright. Something was at the back of her mind, however.
What was that white "bug" that "bit" Eve? Where did it come from? What was it? Why did it bite Eve? And why did it suddenly make her boobs swell up?
Sarah knew it was probably nothing to worry about, but she couldn't stop thinking about it. She wondered if she would find an answer to her questions. She didn't know how long she would be with Eve, but she hoped it would last just a little bit longer.
She fell asleep and was hoping that tomorrow would be a good day.
The morning sun shone brightly as the 2 explorers woke up and had breakfast, exchanging a few words. The day was warm and humid, and the duo were prepared to make their way to the Lost Ruins. As they finished their meal, Sarah saw that Eve's breasts were still a bit swelled up from the previous night.
"Are you sure you're going to be OK?" Sarah asked. "It feels like that thing that bit you last night is still bothering you."
"Yeah," Eve replied, "I'll be fine. Just feeling a bit heavy for now."
Sarah said, "Well, at least let me take a look at your wound and see if I can figure something out."
"Sure," Eve said as she moved closer to Sarah.
Sarah grabbed the bandage and removed it. The wound had almost disappeared. It was a big red sore a few hours back. How can this be?
"Hmmm," Sarah said as she examined the wound, "This is strange."
Eve looked at Sarah and said, "What do you mean?"
"The wound. It healed quite fast in such a short timespan."
Eve laughed and said, "Awwww, my booboo is gone. Maybe that's cause genius was here."
Sarah giggled and said, "So, you want to see me as a hero?"
"I see a lot more than that," Eve said as she looked at Sarah's breasts.
Sarah blushed and said, "Eve!"
Eve replied, "Sorry, you are just so gorgeous. I've never met a woman as smart and as kind as you. You have no idea how awesome you are."
Sarah blushed even more, feeling quite awkward and didn't know how to respond to Eve's compliment. All she could do was smile and say, "Thanks, Eve."
"OK, we should get going."
The duo packed their things into their backpacks, smiled at one another and prepared for the journey to the Lost Ruins. It wasn't too far off. In fact, it was quite close by.
Official records claim that The Lost Ruins were built in the early 1500's by a tribe of explorers looking for a better way of life. Sadly, many explorers died when they attempted to live in the jungle.
Sarah was briefly explaining the fascinating history to Eve as they walked through the jungle. She couldn't help but be fascinated by her newfound friend. Sarah seemed to have such a deep knowledge of the jungle, especially its history.
"Well," Sarah said, "We will be there soon!"
"Good," Eve groaned and replied, "We can finally get this over with."
"Why? What's the hurry? You are not afraid are you?"
"No, it's just that I am so--well, I can't exactly describe it."
Sarah took another quick look at Eve's boobs. Still swelled up.
"Why do I feel like I'm leaking?!" Eve suddenly exclaimed. "Damnit, what's that on my shirt?!"
Sarah's eyes widened with surprise and she didn't know how to respond. It seemed like Eve was more frustrated than ever.
"Calm down," Sarah chimed in, "I am sure it is nothing to worry about."
Eve replied, "Well, it's not like these shirts are anything special anyways."
The 2 continued their trek through the jungle as Eve struggled with her swelled boobs and the leakage. Sarah looked over at Eve a few times to see how she was doing. So far, so beautiful (and voluptuous).
She could just stare at those breasts all day. But something else seemed to be bothering her. Something white, liquid-like, coming out from her, leaking from those boobs. It was strange and yet, intriguing in its own way.
"Sarah?" Eve said, snapping her back to reality.
"Oh, sorry. What is it?"
"We have arrived."
Sarah looked up and noticed the ruins for the 1st time, "WOW! What a splendid sight! I've seen it in documentaries and photos, but never in person! Eve, isn't it beautiful?"
Eve responded, "Yes. It is. I could say something similar about you."
Sarah blushed again and said, "Hehehehe, stop it. I am just as normal as everyone else, you know."
"Oh really? What do you call beautiful?"
Sarah blushed and said, "You. And those b--anyway, excuse me. Ahem. There's much work to be done. Let's get inside, shall we. Ahem."
Eve stopped and turned around. She looked at Sarah and said, "I'm so glad that you're here, Sarah. You are a great friend."
Sarah looked at Eve's face and gave her a big hug. Sarah could feel Eve's boobs press against her and it felt nice.
"I owe you for helping me back there," Eve said in a grateful tone. "Is something wrong? You look a bit pale."
"Nothing is wrong, Eve. It's just that you are my first real friend since I got here. I am so happy to have met you."
"Me too," Eve said. "By the way, my full name is Evelyn Meyers. I'm glad to share this with you, Sarah."
Sarah replied, "Gold, Sarah Gold. That's me. But, call me Sarah."
As they entered the ruins, Sarah saw that the place was quite large. It was definitely larger than she thought. She knew that Eve was quite knowledgeable about the subject matter, but seeing the actual site made it all seem so much more real.
Eve walked ahead, looking around intently and asking Sarah a bit more about the place. They were both amazed by the architecture and design. There was a massive structure in the center of the area.
It was circular and had columns supporting the roof. It was surrounded by smaller structures which served as living quarters, kitchens, storage and other functions. The entire complex was covered in vines and plants.
"Wow," Eve said, "This place is incredible!"
"Yes, it is," Sarah replied. "Yes it is..." Yet again, Sarah couldn't resist looking at Eve's boobs- still swollen, and Sarah was starting to get a bit aroused. She could feel herself getting turned on a bit.
"Sarah," Eve said, "I think we should start our exploration of the ruins."
Blushed, Sarah responded, "Oh, yes! Let's go."
Eve teased her a bit and said in an almost seductive tone, "I saw where your eyes were. I can tell that you like what you see."
Sarah blushed and said, "Well, I am not sure if you can blame me."
Eve laughed and said, "Come on. We have a lot to do."
They started walking around the perimeter of the circular building. The ground was dry. Sarah was wearing shorts and a tank top, but she had a light jacket to keep her warm.
Eve was wearing torn blue jeans and a red t-shirt. Both women were sweating and breathing heavily.
"Hey, Eve," Sarah said, "I don't know if you remember, but I was a bit worried about you last night. Really. However, that wound healed up pretty quick. Are you feeling nauseous, dizzy or out of the ordinary?"
Eve was moving some heavy rocks and managed to reply in between short breaths, "It's the jungle, hen. You're always gonna feel like shit here."
"OK," Sarah said, "I'll try to be careful."
Sarah was still a bit nervous and asked, "What if I get bit? Or, you know, something happens?"
Without a moment of hesitation, Eve moved towards Sarah and told her sternly, "I'm gonna make sure that NEVER happens."
"Eve, I-"
"Shh," Eve said as she placed her dusty finger on Sarah's lips, "Just trust me. I won't let that happen. It's my job, remember?"
Sarah smiled and nodded. She trusted Eve and felt quite aroused by Eve's touch (not to mention, the sight of those breasts).
The 2 continued to explore the ruins and soon discovered a small room in one of the outer walls.
"Look at this!" Sarah said excitedly.
"What's so special about this?" Eve inquired.
"It's a hidden passageway," Sarah said as she pointed to the wall, "And there are some symbols here. I think I can read them. Finally, a practical application of my skillset!"
"Really?" Eve asked, impressed with Sarah.
"Yeah. I have the ability to decipher old languages and symbols. It's been quite useful in the past. Look, here's the same symbol from the other side. See the similarity?"
Eve moved in closer, squinted a bit, and said, "Yeah, subtle. They look weird. Do you these symbols have meaning?"
"Yes, they do. But, I need to study them more. Let's hunker down here for a while."
"Hunker down? Big words, Sarah. Saying 'hunker down' is usually my thing. Guess some of my outdoors energy is rubbing off on you," Eve said in a flirty tone.
"Oh, haha, uh sure." Sarah said as she smiled a little. She then proceeded to study the symbols, while Eve got a camp area set up. After a few minutes, she said, "Hmm. There are 3 sets of symbols here."
Eve came over and said, "What? 3?"
"Yes, I found 3 different sets. Here, and here, and here."
"That's strange," Eve replied, "Why would there be more than 1 set?"
Sarah, engrossed in the symbols in front of her said, "Curious, they look like...they look like letters. Like, maybe the symbols represent a language."
"Letters? They look like tits!" Eve said, and laughed.
"Eve, that's actually...kind of...uh correct," Sarah said, almost shocked.
"I'm kidding, Sarah. You know me. Anyway, let's take a break. I am tired from all that walking and rock-clearing."
"Sure," Sarah replied. "I am also a bit tired. Maybe we should rest for a bit?"
Eve nodded in the affirmative and they sat down.
"So, what do you think, Sarah?" Eve asked.
"About what?"
"About the symbols. What do you think they REALLY mean?"
"I think I have an idea. I think they might be a language. I'm not sure, though. It looks like it could be a combination of symbols, letters, and numbers."
Eve chuckled a bit and said, "And the boobs theory?"
Sarah hesitated and responded, "Well, I mean, it's a possibility. There are quite a few statues and writings of a suggestive nature in this place. It's very possible that the builders were trying to convey something. I guess it's hard to say."
Eve said, "You're right. It is hard to say. But, whatever it may be, it's fascinating and hella fun to look at."
"Yup. Hella fun."
Sarah got up and began inspecting the symbols on the walls and said, "Look at this one. It has an inscription, doesn't it?"
"Yep. It's also some kind picture? What is that?" asked Eve as she stood up and moved to take a closer look.
"It looks like a drawing of a woman. Kind of. There's a headdress on and everything."
"Who is she?"
"I don't know. But I want to find out."
"Wait! said Eve, "There's someone else with her. Near her. On her...? I'm not sure. But it seems to be on her chest."
"I see it too."
"I don't think the writing is a language anymore!" Eve said, her voice filled with excitement, "It's not letters or numbers. It's bloody ancient porno!"
Sarah started laughing and said, "Eve, you're hilarious."
"No, seriously. It's some sort of sexual fantasy. Look at the way she's dressed. It's like a priestess or something. Look at the way she's holding that other lady. Cradling her."
Sarah looked closely and said, "Yup. I guess so."
"And look at those voluptuous breasts. Holy crap. And look at the way the other woman is positioned. It's like she's being held up. It's like...I'm not too sure. Help me out here, Sarah."
Sarah, too, was mesmerized by the image. "Maybe it's a ritual of sorts?"
"Nah," Eve said, "I don't think so. Look at the way the women are positioned. One is sort of cradling the other in her arms or something. It's like they're kissing, or something."
"I see it now. I think you're right. It's like they're embracing each other."
"I wonder what it means. Do you think it's a story? A myth?"
"Maybe."
"Or...wait...it looks like...is that...? Shit, I think it is!"
They both froze in place and stared intently at the symbols.
"What? What does it look like?" Sarah asked excitedly.
"I see the woman is cradling her partner and moving her closer to her tits," Eve replied, pointing to the symbol.
"No way! Are you kidding me? I've been staring at these for hours and missed that!" Sarah said excitedly.
"Yup. You got that right. And they do make a lovely couple. But, that's not the usual sex positions people used back then, right? Like, one of them would be on top?"
Sarah nodded in agreement. "You know, I actually thought about that before. These 2 are sitting. Both of them facing each other. They're almost holding hands. In the cradle position, as you mentioned earlier. But, what makes it even more interesting is the fact that there's 2 women in this very...uh--"
"Fun position," Eve said, with a slight grin on her sweaty face.
The 2 were still studying the symbols, exchanging ideas and what not.
"Fuckin' ell. I need to take a stroll, I feel heavy for some reason. You keep doing whatever it is you're doing, Sarah."
"OK, Eve!" Sarah said, lost in study of the symbols and (rather erotic) drawings on the wall.
Eve took her backpack and found a slightly secluded area, away from prying eyes. She proceeded to remove her shirt as well, revealing her own voluptuous breasts. Her nipples were hard and almost sticking out through her t-shirt.
She immediately noticed a white creamy substance leaking from both her nipples and the tops of her breasts.
"What in the hell?" Eve muttered. She quickly grabbed a cloth and wiped her breasts. The fluid, which appeared to be some form of milk, came out quite easily. She squeezed her tits a bit more, causing more of that same substance to come dripping out.
"Holy shit. Is this milk?" Eve asked herself, as she tried to figure this all out. She got some of that white stuff on her finger and tasted it (she was an explorer after all, so unusual tastes weren't a new thing to her).
"Oh my god. This is breast milk!" Eve almost screamed, "OK, but how?!"
Regardless, she put her shirt back on and went to see what Sarah was up to.
"Eve! You won't believe what I found! Come here! Where have you been? I need you to see this."
Eve moved towards Sarah and said, "Hey, what's up? Did you find something?"
"Yes, I did. But first, I need to show you something. I deciphered enough of the language on the walls, and the pictures fill in the rest. Or at least most of what happened here. Look!" Sarah said as she pulled a piece of parchment from her backpack.
She unrolled the paper, and Eve's jaw dropped when she saw the drawing of a woman, cradled in the arms of another woman.
"What's happening? What are they doing? Why are they so close? Look at their bodies. They are practically touching. Oh, my God. They are. They are-- Eve couldn't finish her sentence.
Sarah chimed in, "Adult breastfeeding. Erotic lactation. That's basically what was happening right where we're standing. It's all quite surreal. I forgot I had that parchment, but all your talk about boobs made me think a bit, y'know. I mean, this is just like well...um, nursing? But with and for adults."
Eve laughed and said, "I can see that. I guess that's why they are so close. I'm impressed you figured that one out. Speaking of adult nursing or whatever you called it, I once heard something about Romans doing this. Roman something it was called. I'm not even sure if it was Romans. Maybe you can fill in the blanks, eh history buff? You seem to know a lot."
"Yeah, I do. I studied a bit of ancient Rome. Not as much, though. Lemme think for a second. Roman Charity! I remember reading that somewhere and seeing the paintings. I'm not entirely sure about the specifics, but it involved something similar to what we're seeing. Only, instead of a woman and a man, THIS involves 2 women. I think."
"Wow. That's interesting. I never knew that. So, what are we looking at here? What is this place, anyway?"
"Well, I'll tell ya. I think this is a temple dedicated to a goddess or something. But, I'm not sure. I haven't seen any statues or anything. I think this place is empty. I mean, there are signs of habitation here, but nothing big. If this is a temple, it's pretty damn small. How do you think we should proceed?
Eve suggested, "Maybe take a peek deeper inside? See if there's any more details?"
"Great idea!!" Sarah said with excitement, "Let's go!"
As they walked around the perimeter, they searched for a way to enter the structure. They noticed there was no door to be seen anywhere. And then they both looked up and saw it: the statue of a woman cradling another woman in her arms, and all.
Sarah said, "That's odd. The women look like they are embracing each other. Like...latching on? And..." Sarah pointed at the drawing, "she's sucking her tits? Is that even possible? But, why, though?"
"Yeah. It kind of makes sense though, right? She's obviously nursing the other person. Anyway, I bet that's where the milk comes from. Sarah, there's something I need to..."
Sarah, not paying attention to what Eve was trying to say, noticed some strange writing on a wall. Her eyes followed the line and she saw some sort of symbol, along with a bunch of numbers that were just as peculiarly drawn.
Sarah said, "Eve, I think I found something else! Come take a look."
Eve, now curious, joined Sarah at the wall.
"Look at these symbols," Sarah said, pointing at the writing on the wall. "I can't read the whole thing, but the gist of it is the women here, well mainly women, were low on food supplies and getting hungry and desperate. So, they decided to induce lactation? But, how exactly did they do it?"
She gulps and goes on, "It's kind of weird, but it makes sense. I mean, I've been thinking about it for a while now, and it seems plausible. If the nipple receives enough oral stimulation, lactation would be induced and the body would produce the milk. Theoretically, of course. But, there's something missing here."
Eve said, "So they sucked each others' nipples? That's what you're saying? I mean, I guess it could work, but I don't think it's that simple. I think there's more to it than that."
"What do you mean? What else is missing?"
"Well, let's start with the pictures. There's a picture in the middle. One that keeps showing up. It looks like an 8, like a little bug or insect of sorts. I think it might be a symbol for a secret organization? But, that seems too outlandish."
Eve interrupted when she heard the word insect and said, "Insect? Sarah, there's something I really need to..."
Just as Sarah was about to turn around and listen to what Eve had to say, she felt the ground vibrating under her.
Sarah turned around and said, "Tremors. That can't be good. EVE! We better get out of here. NOW!"
Eve grabbed Sarah's hand and the duo ran as fast as they could, until they reached the entrance, which was still open. They both jumped in, and the door slammed shut behind them.
The tremors worsened, and Sarah and Eve looked at each other.
"We need to keep moving. To higher ground!" Sarah said.
"OK! Let's go, then!" Eve replied.
They started running again, but this time they were heading in the opposite direction of where they had come from. It wasn't long before the duo were separated. The tremors were getting much worse now and made it difficult for the 2 to keep up with one another.
Eventually, Eve found herself lost. She tried to move forward, but after running for a long time, she was completely out of breath and unsure of where she was going.
Eve yelled out, "Sarah! SARAH! Can you hear me! Are you there?!"
She could only assume that Sarah was running somewhere too, and was now lost as well. The shaking increased in intensity, until everything started to go dark. Everything seemed so calm at first. Then the darkness just engulfed her. She couldn't see anything; not even herself.
Not even a hint of light in the distance.
Luckily, Eve never left home without a trusty (but horribly old) wind-up dynamo flashlight from WWI. She bought it for quite a bargain along with other trinkets at a local pawn shop. After pulling that string for some time, the light finally flickered on.
Eve was able to find the strength to take off her pack and use it to wipe some sweat from her brow. She noticed she had all the extra food rations in her backpack.
"Fuck!" said Eve, realizing the fact that Sarah didn't have any food. "What am I going to do now? Oh God." She put the pack down and sat down on a rock, putting her face in her hands and sobbing.
The shaking subsided and she saw the light from her "flashlight" begin to get dimmer. Eve began to panic. She rummaged around her backpack and was relieved to find a bar of chocolate. She took out the wrapper and hurriedly munched down on it.
As Eve was finishing up her last bite of the chocolate, the light was about to go off. She started to cry a bit more. She realized that Sarah was nowhere in sight. She just wanted to see her again. She wanted to hug her. She wanted to do a lot more than that, too.
One thing is for sure- Sarah undoubtedly felt the same way.
Eve screamed out in to the distance, "Sarah! Why!? Please forgive me! I should never have let go of your hand. You egghead. Nerd. All I had was 1 job. 1 fucking job." Eve then got up, but as she was about to do so, she slipped, and almost went down the big, gaping hole near her.
However, her backpack wasn't so lucky and went down.
"Noooo!" Eve said as she realized that the rest of her pack was gone. She still had her flashlight, though, but she was able to quickly get at least 1 small bowl of rice. The backpack was finally gone, but she still had some of her precious flashlight left. That wind-up wasn't too bad after all.
Eve took off her t-shirt and used it as a cloth to wipe her dusty, sweat-drenched face and body. She realized her breasts were feeling a bit heavy again. It had happened a few times since the insect bite, and she had no idea why. The whole milk-leakage thing was becoming a bit of a nuisance, though.
Eve thought for a moment and took off her shirt again. She then noticed something new: milk leaking out, like a river, from her nipples. It was like a faucet; leaking, but not constantly. Eve rubbed her nipples to relieve a bit of the pressure and suddenly more milk began to shoot out from her nipples.
"Oh my God!" Eve muttered, with a bit of uncertainty in her voice, "Something is seriously out of wack here. If only I had Sarah and her big brainy brain to explain what the hell's wrong with me. Oh, Sarah. Where are you?"
Eve's eyes teared up and she began to sob again. The tears were mixed with a bit of her own milk as well. It was now dripping down her cheeks and neck. She just wanted to see Sarah again. She wanted to hold her again. She wanted to do a lot more than that, too.
Sadly, Sarah was nowhere to be found. Eve called out Sarah's name for some time, but there was no response.
Sarah was running for her life. She was afraid of dying and losing Eve, but she had to find her. She couldn't let Eve down again. Not when things were going so well between them. Sarah's mind was still racing. She wasn't paying attention to where she was going as she ran through the ruins, but she was trying her best to get away from the source of the tremors.
Sarah thought, "I hope Eve's OK. I should have never let go of her hand. God, I--I miss her already. I need to find her. But, how? She could be anywhere!"
Sarah continued to run until she reached a dead-end. There was a huge pile of rubble in front of her. It was like a giant wall.
Sarah's stomach immediately started to rumble.
"Hungry. Haven't eaten in hours, now. That's not good. I need to find something quick."
Sarah took out a piece of half-eaten chocolate from her pocket. She removed the wrapper and munched down on it. The chocolate was long gone by now.
Sarah was sitting in a small opening on the ground, right at the top of the huge pile of rocks. The tremors had subsided (for now). Sarah didn't know what to do. She was scared, tears profusely rolling down her cheeks.
She cried out, "EVE! WHERE ARE YOU! EVELYN! ARE YOU THERE?"
Nothing.
Sarah continued to cry. She put her hands on her face and sobbed. Her clothes were sweaty and dirty, but she didn't care. Sarah wanted to go home, but she knew that survival in such a place was next to impossible. She thought about Eve, and what she was going through.
"I'm so sorry, Eve," Sarah said, wiping her tears, "I hope you can forgive me. I need you, Eve. C'mon, I really need you. I...want you."
Sarah lay her head down, still teary eyed and fell asleep for a while. She woke up sometime later and stretched her body, still thinking about Eve.
"I'm tired. I'm hungry. And I need to find something to eat soon. I wish I had my backpack. Or my share of the rations. Damnit."
Sarah sat up, still with her hands on her face, and looked around. She was in a small room, so she got up and made her way into the adjacent room. She was quite happy to find a couch, but made of stone. There was also a bit of dust, but not too much.
Sarah was starving. She tried to search for anything edible, but there was nothing to be found. She gave up and sat on the peculiar-looking stone couch. It was actually quite comfy. She laid her head down, curled up, and started to fall asleep yet again.
Suddenly, she heard a faint sound coming from behind her. It sounded like...what was it? Suddenly, a dim light. Sarah was startled, but she couldn't figure out where the light was coming from. She slowly turned around, and saw a small, glowing object in the corner of the room.
"What the hell is that? A flashlight??! Eve! Is that you?"
The light moved closer, and then Sarah saw Eve in the distance, illuminated by the light of her flashlight.
"Eve! Oh, thank God!"
"Sarah! Sarah, I'm so glad to see you!"
Eve ran over to Sarah and embraced her tightly. "I've been so worried about you. Are you OK? What happened to you?"
"I'm fine. Just a little shaken up. I don't know how, but I managed to escape the tremors. I found this cave, and it's pretty safe.
Still holding each other, Sarah said to Eve, "Eve, there's something I wanna say to you. I'm sorry for everything. I s--should never have let go of your hand. I was stu--stupid. I shouldn't have done that. I'm so sorry."
Eve smiled and said, "It's OK, Sarah. And, I'm sorry for letting you go."
The duo looked into each others eyes and leaned in for a kiss.
"Eve, I really like you. I feel safe when I'm around you. I want to--"
"Sarah, just kiss me. Please, just do it. Kiss me. Right now. Right here. Kiss me, Sarah."
They both kissed each other passionately. Sarah could taste Eve's salty, sweet lips. Sarah was aroused.
"Eve, you're amazing...but I feel a bit dizzy. I, uh...haven't eaten in hour--"
Sarah almost fell down, but Eve grabbed her, held her, and whispered, "I'm sorry. I lost all the food and I had to eat the last ration, I had no other choice. Please forgive me. Sarah, stay here. Don't worry about it. I'll take care of that. You just rest. I'm gonna go find food."
Sarah sat back down on that "couch" made of stone.
As Eve got up and went out to look for food, Sarah said, "Eve...your...breasts...figured out why they're so big, haven't ya? I mean, only 1 logical conclusion- milk. White bug...in jungle...bit, can't explain in-depth, but it's t--true."
Eve thought to herself, "Milk. Sarah. Hungry. Breastfeeding. Pictures and symbols all over the ruins. It all makes sense. My breasts are full of milk. The white insect is the one who bit me. The bite caused the lactation! It's all connected. But, why did it have to happen to me?"
Eve, still piecing the puzzle in her head approached Sarah, "Listen, Sarah, I know this is gonna sound a bit, well, awkward, but I'm lactating. My boobs are heavy and leaking and well, you know..."
"Oh my God. You are? Really?"
"Yeah. They're getting big. The milk is coming out of my nipples. Why don't I, well, um..."
Sarah interrupted, "Breastfeed me? Yes. I'm hungry and tired and thirsty and you're the only one here, so I guess we'll try that. It's the only thing left to do. I can imagine how the people here felt when they were going through a similar predicament."
Eve removed all of her clothes, not just her shirt, but her pants as well. Sarah was shocked. It was the 1st time she was seeing Eve's bare breasts. She was amazed by the size of her tits. They were enormous and firm, but soft, too.
Eve said, "Now, why don't we try that cradle position we saw on all those walls?"
Sarah, still wearing her clothes, took them off as well. They assumed the position (just like they had both seen on the walls) and Sarah opened her mouth, placed it on Eve's tit and began to suckle on those large, round, milky breasts.
Sarah was in heaven. She was sucking on Eve's breast, drinking her milk. It was delicious (and quite filling!)
She had never tasted anything so good in her entire life.
Sarah was still nursing on Eve's tit when Eve asked, "So, Sarah. How do you feel? Do you like it?"
Sarah stopped sucking for a bit, looked up at Eve and replied, "Yes, I love it. I've never had anything so wonderful in my life."
Eve smiled, held Sarah's head, and delicately guided her back onto the tit to continue suckling.
Sarah took her time, savoring every drop of milk that she could. This was truly amazing and Sarah never wanted it to end. She had never imagined such a thing would ever be possible, but somehow destiny made it happen.
Eve was enjoying the experience as well. She loved the sensation of Sarah's tongue on her nipple, and she was getting hornier by the minute. She could feel her pussy beginning to get wet.
Eve, still cradling Sarah and breastfeeding her, reached down to Sarah's wet pussy and began fingering it. She was surprised by the amount of lubricant that came out of Sarah's cunt. Eve's fingers were gliding smoothly inside Sarah's hot, wet hole.
Sarah moaned in between suckling. Eve continued to finger her new friend, this time moving her hands faster and deeper into Sarah's wet, beautiful pussy.
Sarah was moaning louder now, and Eve could tell that she was close to an orgasm. She decided to stop feeding Sarah for a while and just concentrate on pleasuring her with her hands.
With milk leaking from her mouth, Sarah looked up at Eve and asked for a kiss. Eve obliged and the 2 women shared a passionate kiss. Sarah's hands played with Eve's breasts.
Eve was so horny. While still kissing, Eve returned to fingering Sarah. But, she also felt Sarah's pussy begin to throb, and knew she was about to come soon.
Sarah's moaning grew louder. "Oh, Eve! Do--Don't stop! It feels so good! Oh FUCK!"
Eve couldn't take it anymore and began pumping her fingers into Sarah faster. She was having an orgasm. Her own. She began to spurt and squirt liquid out of her pussy while still kissing Eve. Her juices were dripping down like a river.
Eve continued nursing Sarah in the cradle position, this time, holding Sarah tighter and closer than ever before.
Sarah had now moved on to suckling from Eve's other breast, which was still heavy, full of milk begging to be sucked out and swallowed. Ms. Gold was more than happy to oblige.
Sarah continued to nurse on Eve. She was so horny, but she didn't want to come yet.
Eve whispered to Sarah, "Swallow, it love. Don't waste. Drink that sweet milk. Now I know why that insect bit me back in the jungle. It's all so clear now. That little white creature is a survivor, like us. And that's why it bit me, so I could make milk. So, we could resolve this moment. So I could save your life. I'm not alone. In here, we're surrounded by women who did the same, a long time ago."
Sarah moaned in between suckles and nodded her head, agreeing with Eve's assessment. Destiny aside, Sarah was in heaven. She was sucking on Eve's huge tits, drinking her milk, and feeling Eve's warm, rugged, skin. She was in a trance.
Eve was loving every bit of it, too. She bobbed Sarah's head up and down as she suckled, making sure to drink her fill.
Sarah's eyes were closed, and she was lost in ecstasy. She kept drinking until the last drop of life saving, liquid goodness.
Sarah opened her eyes and looked straight into Eve's eyes, and said, "Thank you, Eve. Thank you so much. You really saved me. If it wasn't for you, I would've started eating my arm off."
Eve smiled, kissed Sarah passionately and said, "You're welcome. I'm just doing my job, love. And I hope you'll stay with me here for a while. I wanna hold you. I wanna feel your skin touch mine. I want to kiss you again."
Sarah smiled and said, "I'd love that. I wanna be like this forever. Cradled, safe in your warm and loving embrace. I'm so horny. Let's do it right here in the cradle. I'm so wet already. Let's have some more fun, Eve. Is that OK with you, love?"
Eve smiled and nodded in the affirmative. Sarah and Eve stayed in the cradle position for a long time, just looking into each others' eyes, and making out. Both were so happy and content.
After what seemed like a very, very, VERY long time, Sarah and Eve decided to just cuddle and spoon, on the stone couch, facing each other.
"This is so nice. I love being in your arms, Eve. I'm so thankful for this time together. I'm so grateful to you for all your help. You're a lifesaver. Literally! You saved me twice."
Eve smiled, kissed Sarah, and said, "I know. But, admit it, the 2nd time was way sexier than that episode in the jungle."
Sarah replied, "Well, you were quite brave, that kinda turned me on a bit."
Eve smiled, said, "I get it. But, I wouldn't call myself brave. It was actually pretty scary. I panicked."
Sarah smiled, touched her neck and said, "How could I ever repay you? What can I give you, Eve, to show my gratitude? Anything."
"Nothing is required of you. I'm glad to see you alive. I'm just doing my job."
"Eve, how would you like me to perform cunnilingus? That pussy of yours is wetter than a scuba diver! I'm dying to lick you!"
"Really??" Eve said, surprised by Sarah's enticing offer.
Eve sat up straight while Sarah got down on her knees and crawled towards Eve's crotch. Sarah used her hand to guide her along the way. She could smell the sweet aroma of Eve's wet pussy.
When she finally reached the prize, she let her tongue out and licked the top of Eve's pussy.
Sarah gently lapped up the juice that leaked from the pussy, then she stuck her tongue inside and began licking Eve's clit.
Eve moaned, "Mmmmm, yesssss! SARAH GOLD! Ohhhhhhhhhhhhhh. That feels soooooooo good!"
Sarah continued to eat Eve's pussy, using her tongue and lips to stimulate and pleasure the clit.
Eve was panting loudly, moaning in between sucks and licks. Sarah was getting aroused and, in return, she was eating Eve's pussy even harder. She was loving the taste of Eve's pussy. It was so creamy and sweet. It was definitely worth the wait.
They continued to make out and fondle each other's bodies. Sarah's tongue was deep inside Eve's pussy. Eve wrapped her legs around Sarah's head and pulled her down to the pussy. She was moaning louder and louder.
Sarah began sucking on the clit, her tongue pushing in and out of the wet pussy. Eve was moaning. All she could do was push against Sarah's face. Sarah had been waiting for this moment for a long time. Now, it was finally happening!
"Oh, Sarah, love. I think I'm gonna come. Ooohhhhhhhhhhh. Aaaaahhhh. Oh, Sarah, I'M COMING!"
Sarah continued to suck hard on that clit, rapidly pushing her tongue in and out of Eve's wet pussy.
"Ooohhhhhhh, Sarah! Yes, yes, yes, yes! I'm coming! Oooooooohhhhhh, Sarah, OHHHHHHHHHH, Sarah, I'm coming! Ooohhhhhhhh!"
Eve's eyes rolled into the back of her head and she screamed loudly, her body shaking. The entire cave was filled with the sound of Eve's loud screams and Sarah's tongue sucking on that clit.
Sarah then proceeded to hug Eve, still riding the wave of her orgasm, and kiss her on the neck and face. Eve was breathing heavily and was trying to catch her breath. She was moaning softly.
Sarah said, "Oh, Eve...I think we should...rest...now. We need to rest if we are going to get out of here--"
Eve stroked Sarah's cheek gently, looked into her eyes and said, "I agree. I'm exhausted. But, before we go to sleep, I really want to show you something."
She took Sarah's hand and led her to the back of the cave. There was a small opening that was covered by a curtain. Eve pushed the curtain aside and they entered the room.
Inside was a large, stone statue. A statue of a naked woman, lying on her side. Her breasts were exposed, and Sarah noticed that the breasts were quite swelled up.
Eve said, "This is her. I can't explain it. I felt drawn to this room. To you. It's like I can feel her embrace, her telling me to breastfeed you. To save you. It's all so weird and wonderful."
Sarah looked at the statue and wondrously said, "She's beautiful."
Eve smiled and dreamily added, "I think she is beautiful too. I'm so lucky to be here with you now. Sharing this moment."
Sarah and Eve went back, still naked, got on the floor, cuddled together, exchanged kisses, and fell asleep.
It was a beautiful night. It was cold outside and both women were very warm and comfortable in the cozy cave.
Sarah dreamed of the jungle, of the Lost Ruins. In her dream, she heard a woman's voice calling out to her, "Sarah Gold."
Sarah, still asleep, was fully aware of her name being called in this dream. She replied, "Who's there?"
The voice came back saying, "Sarah. The woman sleeping besides you. She saved your life, Sarah. NEVER FORGET THAT. I too was once like you. Desperate, dying. Hungry, thirsty. Destiny made it possible for another woman, much like your brave companion, to produce nectar from her bosom to keep me alive. To please me, so that I could please her in return."
Sarah opened her eyes and said, "Yes...I'm here. We're here." She then turned her eyes and took yet another look at Eve's lovely, beautiful breasts, which were slowly swelling up again. Eve's nipples were erect and pointing to the ceiling. Her nipples were dark brown and swollen, almost as big as saucers, begging to be sucked on and squeezed hard by Sarah's hands.
"Patience," Sarah muttered to herself as she slowly drifted off to sleep again.
Eve was deep in sleep. After such a time of immense (and intense) activity, she was extremely tired. Her dreams were visited by another woman.
This strange woman called out, "Evelyn Meyers, you have shown great courage in the face of great adversity. You took it onto yourself to save your lowly companion with your life-saving nectars. You brought her close to your bosom and saved her. Pleased her. She pleased you in return. Destiny always meant for this to happen."
The mystical voice continued, "You and your venerable companion, like us, are survivors. You have found each other. Be grateful, Eve, that you have met someone who needs you just as much as you need her. Someone you can trust. You're not alone anymore."
"Oh, thank you," Eve whispered as she too slowly drifted off to sleep.
The next morning, Sarah woke up and looked over at Eve, and saw that she was about to wake up. She thought it would be a good idea to wake her up early. Sarah leaned in to give Eve a light kiss on the cheek and said, "Good morning, love."
"Hello, Sarah," Eve replied, rubbing her eyes.
Eve gave Sarah a tongue-kiss and said, "Let's get out of this place, Sarah. We learned what we needed to. Although, it's doubtful anyone will believe us when we tell them what happened here. They probably won't even bother listening to our story. It sounds like a fuckin' fairy tale. Maybe, it is. But, I don't care. I'm out. I need you, Sarah. I want to go home."
Sarah smiled, kissed Eve on the lips, stroked her, and said, "Me too, love. Let's get dressed. I know where exactly the exit is."
The duo got dressed and packed what they could. Then, they made their way to the exit of the cave and headed towards the entrance of the Lost Ruins, still unharmed by the tremors.
Sarah and Eve, holding hands, turned around and took 1 last look at the Lost Ruins.
Sarah asked, "Will you miss this place?"
Eve replied, "I've got mixed feelings about it all. On 1 hand, I got to meet you, on the other, we nearly lost our lives. And, we didn't find anything. No gold. Nothing. Just a bunch of ruins. Not much to show for all the effort. I guess you win some, you lose some. Or, maybe, we just weren't meant to find those treasures."
Sarah chimed in, "Eve, these people...they didn't have much to begin with. All they had was each other. Even though they were up against all odds, they got together, banded together, and held out. Survived. That's what matters most."
Both women laughed, embraced, and passionately kissed each other.
Eve chimed in, "Sarah, how did they perish? I saw bones, a lot down there. I know some of them managed to escape the ruins and move on, but not all of them made it out, right?"
Sarah, in a pensive tone, said, "True, they kept each other alive for a time. But, soldiers eventually found them and started massacring them, a few managed to flee. It was awful. Horrible. The soldiers killed everyone in sight. Everyone. All in the name of revenge, I suppose. For what? Revenge against people who didn't have much? It's sad. Why?!"
Eve put her hand around Sarah's shoulders, said nothing, and stared at the ruins. The duo walked through the forest for an hour, carefully avoiding the dangerous parts of the jungle. Finally, after walking for a long time, they saw the sun peeking its head above the horizon.
Sarah took another look at Eve's body and said, "You're looking amazing. As always. I think we're ready to start our journey back home. Back to our lives."
Eve smiled, nodded in agreement and said, "I think I am too. But, why don't we set up camp here? Let's not take any risks, Sarah. After all that's happened, I need to stop being so harsh and foolish. I've had many encounters with near-death, but nothing as frightening as what went down in those bloody Ruins."
She deeply sighed, "I think I'm done with the jungle for a while. I think I'm ready to settle down, get a job in the city. Maybe I can teach, or write a book or something."
Sarah smiled, hugged Eve, and said, "I'm glad you feel that way. I think I'm also ready to settle down. Maybe I could change careers. Something a bit more mundane would be good after all that's happened here. Yes, mundane. Maybe I can help you write that book? I'm sure it'll be a bestseller. It's definitely a fascinating story in the making, hehe."
Eve, in a flirty tone, chimed in, "And a very sexy one. I doubt if it'll ever get published."
They both laughed, hugged again, stared into each other's eyes, moved closer together, and started making out
The 2 women were making out passionately, Sarah was kissing every inch of Eve's body.
The 2 women were laying on top of a flat moss-covered ground at the edge of the jungle. They continued to make out in the midst of their passionate embrace. Sarah then slid her hand underneath Eve's body and found her hot and wet pussy.
Eve had a burning desire for Sarah. Sarah was now grinding against Eve's soft, slippery pussy lips and rubbing up against her hardening clit. The 2 women kissed even more intensely.
Suddenly, Eve got the notion to remove Sarah's shirt so that she could give those tits a bit of oral stimulation. She quickly reached inside her trousers, unzipped them and took off her panties as well. Sarah did the same thing and soon, they were completely nude.
They continued kissing as Eve's tongue slowly made its way down to Sarah's neck. Then, she stuck out her tongue and licked Sarah's neck and shoulder.
Eve then moved her face down to Sarah's breasts. Her mouth was in front of 1 nipple while her hands were cupping both of Sarah's breasts and squeezing them. Both women moaned in pleasure as Eve kissed and sucked on Sarah's round breasts and perky nipple.
Sarah put her hand over Eve's head and gently pushed her on top of her, moving Eve's mouth closer to Sarah's throbbing nipple. Sarah then grabbed Eve's hair and guided her to the other breast.
Sarah, now with a hungry look in her eyes said, "Eve, I want to see you suck on my other tit. Show me what you've got, hen. Let's see how much you can suck on."
Eve smiled at Sarah, kissed her deeply and replied, "I have all night for that, hen. All goddamn night."
And, so they did. Eve went for Sarah's nipples like there was no tomorrow, licking it, kissing it, sucking it. The 2 women were moaning loudly as Eve showed Sarah exactly how much she enjoyed giving oral pleasure to someone.
She didn't stop until Sarah's entire body was shaking and vibrating with pleasure.
Finally, when Eve thought Sarah was ready to explode into an orgasmic frenzy, she intensified the pleasurable sensations by placing her finger inside Sarah's wet pussy and fingering her while her mouth lathered up and down on Sarah's hard nipple. Finally, it wasn't enough for Eve. She wanted more. She needed more.
She wanted to feel Sarah's juices squirt out of her pussy. She wanted to taste her. She wanted to swallow it all. So, she stopped sucking on Sarah's nipple and moved her face down to Sarah's pussy. She licked Sarah's slit from bottom to top, using her tongue to lick up and down Sarah's moist, pink, swollen pussy lips.
Then, she stuck out her tongue and licked Sarah's clitoris and sucked on it.
Sarah was now screaming, "Oh god! OH, GOD!!"
Eve knew that Sarah was going to come soon. She moved her face back up to Sarah's nipple and began sucking on it again, whilst fingering Sarah's wet, throbbing pussy. Sarah came hard and loud. She screamed, "Oh fuck yes. Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, OH GOD YESSSS!"
Eve kept sucking on those tits, and after a while, moved her mouth up to Sarah's ear and whispered, "That was good, wasn't it, Sarah? You liked it, didn't you? I did."
Sarah, in a daze, replied, "Yes, I loved it. Every second of it. I've never felt anything so intense before. I've been wanting you since I first laid my eyes on you. I've been thinking about you ever since you saved me from that ocelot. Oh, Evelyn, I'm so fucking horny for you!"
Eve, whispering into Sarah's ear, said, "Let me cradle you and breastfeed you, again. I need to feel your warmth and sweetness. I need to hold you close. I want to give you everything you deserve, Sarah. Everything. I'd do anything for you."
Sarah, completely flushed, eagerly replied, "Just like last time? You promise to hold me, to guide my mouth to your sweet milky tits? I need to nurse and drink your milk. I feel so hungry after coming."
Eve smiled, kissed Sarah, and said, "I've got you, love. Let's get into position."
Sarah looked into Eve's eyes and said, "Yes, I'm all yours."
Eve, in a seductive tone, whispered, "I want to give you all you need, Sarah. I'll show you what it feels like to be truly held. I'll show you what it means to be loved and cared for. I'll show you what it means to be TRULY loved. It's a feeling unlike any other. Don't you think?"
Sarah nodded in agreement, smiled at Eve, and said, "Yes, I do."
Eve cradled Sarah in her arms, took her head, and gently placed it on her shoulder. She then took Sarah's mouth in hers and kissed her passionately. Next, she slowly moved Sarah's mouth to her leaking breasts and let her suckle on them.
Eve watched as Sarah nursed on her breasts, licked up and down her hard nipples, and moaned in pleasure.
When Eve was sure that Sarah was latched on and drinking that sweet milk, she said, "Sarah, you're so beautiful. You have the most amazing body. I wish we could stay here forever. I wish I could keep you with me always. But, I know that's not possible. We've got a long way to go. Our own lives to live. Our own paths to take."
Sarah, still nursing on her breasts, replied (in between suckles), "Yes, we do. But, for now, let's just enjoy this moment. Let's make it last. F--For as long as we can."
Eve, kissing Sarah's forehead, replied, "For as long as we can. Yes, we will. Yes, we will."
Eve moved Sarah to the next boob and nursed her while she continued rocking her and holding her tighter. After a while, Eve brought Sarah's head up to kiss her and said, "Sarah, that was amazing. You've no idea how good your tongue and mouth feel in my tits. Have another taste."
Sarah, with milk dripping out of her mouth, smiled at Eve, "I know. This is better than any meal at any restaurant I've ever been to. This is what I need. Your milk. I'm so glad you're my friend, Evelyn. Thank you for sharing your milk with me. For saving me. It's the best thing I've ever tasted."
Eve felt Sarah's hand try to slide down to her wet pussy and started fingering her. Sarah's finger found her clitoris and started rubbing it with increasing intensity.
"You are such a naughty girl," Eve teased, kissing Sarah again.
Sarah responded, "And, you are the best lover I have ever had. The sexiest, hottest, and bravest woman. The one who gave me the greatest gift. Saving my life. And, the one who gives me the biggest orgasms ever. The one who makes me come harder and longer than anyone ever has. The one who gives me the greatest pleasure."
She added, "Someone I can trust. Someone who understands me and knows how to treat me right. A TRUE best friend. The one I am willing to share myself with. To be vulnerable with."
Eve nodded in agreement, kissed Sarah again, and replied, "You make me feel good! I can't put it in words! I feel at ease when I'm around you, Ms. Gold."
They both laughed at this moment of pure love and lust.
"Eve, you haven't come yet. Why don't I go down on that wet pussy of yours," Sarah offered, as she continued to rub her clit rapidly. She looked into Eve's eyes and said, "I want you to see what your pussy tastes like."
Eve was feeling really horny now.
Sarah chimed in, "Why don't you sit on my face? Put your pussy on my face and lemme lick it for you?"
Eve smiled, sat down on Sarah's face, spread her legs wide open, and pushed her lovely pink lips onto Sarah's waiting tongue. As soon as they were together, Sarah started licking up and down Eve's slit, getting every last drop of juices from her sweet dripping cunt.
As Sarah licked and sucked on her hot, slippery pussy, Eve began gasping louder and moaning louder. Eve took hold of Sarah's head and began moving it back and forth vigorously, making sure that all of Sarah's mouth could get access to her clitoris. It wasn't long before Eve had 2 strong orgasms.
She came hard, but Sarah kept licking until Eve finally stopped bucking her hips. After a while, she recovered enough to say, "Oh, tha--that felt so good, Sarah!"
Sarah grinned and replied, "It did feel very nice, didn't it?"
Then, the 2 women cuddled up close, spooned (facing each other) for a while, and fell asleep with their arms wrapped around each other. They made out lightly during this time. After some time, both Sarah and Eve's breathing became heavy again. Both women were still awake.
They were still horny.
Eve said, "We should go to sleep. We've got a long day ahead of us tomorrow."
Sarah said, "Yes, we do. Goodnight, Ms. Meyers. Goodnight, mi amor."
Eve replied in a seductive tone, "Goodnight, mi amor."
The 2 women kissed once more, and then Sarah said, "Sweet dreams, Eve."
Eve replied, "Sweet dreams, Sarah."
And, so they did, safe in each other's warm, loving embrace.
After a decent time of deep sleep, the duo woke up.
Eve said, "Good morning, sleepy head. Got your beauty sleep?"
Sarah rubbed her eyes, stroked her hair, and replied, "Yeah, I guess. I feel really good. You?"
Eve smiled and said, "I'm fine. How are you?"
Sarah replied, "I'm good. REALLY GOOD. I feel great!"
Eve said, "I'm glad. I know I'm going to feel even better when I give you a kiss. Come here."
Sarah smiled, said, "I can't wait."
Eve took Sarah's hand, and said, "Ah, fuck it."
The 2 leaned in and passionately kissed one another, tongues dancing wildly in each other's mouths.
After a minute or 2 of hot, early-morning smooching, Eve broke the kiss, smiled at Sarah, and said, "You look wonderful this morning. I can't believe we're doing this. I mean, I can't believe we ACTUALLY DID IT! We survived. We made it."
Sarah replied, "Yes, we do. And, I can't believe it either. I feel so alive. I feel like a different person. That experience in the Lost Ruins changed me. It changed us, Eve. Let us strive to be better people, more compassionate towards and understanding of others. To do good. To help those less fortunate. I feel like I've found something that I never knew I was looking for."
Eve said, "I agree. I'm glad I met you. I'm glad I was there to save you."
Sarah cheekily replied, "It was a part of your job, after all, wasn't it?"
Eve laughed, and said, "True. But, it was more than that. It was fate. It was destiny. It was love. It was an act of selfless compassion. It was the best thing that ever happened to me. To us. I guess you could say I went above and beyond. In more ways than one, eh, eh?"
The duo exchanged a few words, got dressed, and headed back to what one could call "civilization" for the first time in days.
Once they were back, the 2 women immediately set about packing their things in suitcases, checking their passports, and making sure the flight wasn't delayed or cancelled.
Sarah needed to get back to Glastonbury. Her job, apartment, her life, her education was there. Eve, however, was having a bit of an issue.
With tears rolling down her eyes, Eve said, "Sarah, what we've had is truly magical. I will remember it forever. I can't--I won't stop thinking about it. But, I've lived here for nearly half a decade. I can't just leave with you. I'd love to, believe me, but I can't. I feel drawn to this place. It's hard to put into words. I hope--I hope you're not angry with me. I'm sorry if I caused you any trouble or got your hopes up."
Sarah, wiping away the tears in her eyes, replied, "No, Eve. Not at all. You've done nothing wrong. Why would I ever harbor any resentment against you? You saved me. I owe you. It's not the other way around. YOU saved MY life. I'll always be grateful to you. But, it doesn't change the fact that I need to get back home. I need to go back to my life."
Eve simply said, "I understand."
Sarah embraced Eve tightly, kissed her, and said, "Thank you for everything. I'm going to miss you. I'm so glad I met you. You've given me the best gift anyone has ever given me. If you're ever in Glastonbury, you promise to give me a call or drop by my place? I don't care how long it'll take. I just want to see you. I just want you to hold me again."
Eve hugged Sarah back, smiled, kissed her, and said, "Of course I will. Sarah, I believe it's my destiny to help others here. To save their lives if it ever comes to that. Hypothetically speaking, you wouldn't take issue if I had to well...y'know, breastfeed someone else, right?"
Sarah replied, "Who am I to stand in the way of destiny? Follow it. I'm glad you're happy. I'm glad you found a purpose here. I'm also glad you found happiness. I'm glad of the hot, sexy passion we were able to share with each other. The vulnerabilities we showed one another. The love. I'm glad of the friendship we developed. I'm glad we shared our love with one another."
She sniffed, "I'm glad you helped me find my purpose in life. I'm glad I was able to show you mine. Thank you, Evelyn Meyers. You are the best friend I have ever had. I love you. I love you with all of my heart."
Eve wistfully replied, "I love you too, Sarah Gold."
The duo shared 1 last passionate kiss, and then parted ways.
Sarah boarded her flight back to Glastonbury.
Eve's remained in the area, waiting for her next "gig". Her next person or persons to protect and (possibly) nurse, should circumstances dictate.
She went back to her small apartment, unpacked her things, and went for a nice long shower, washing away all of the grime and sweat from her adventures in the Lost Ruins.
When she was finished, she sat down on her bed, took off her underwear, laid back, and started thinking of Sarah. She thought about what they had done together. What they were able to share with one another.
Their lovemaking. Their friendship. Their trust. The intimacy.
Eve thought of Sarah's beautiful smile, her soft touch, her sweet voice, and her gentle kisses. Eve started to finger herself, slowly at first, but quickly picking up speed. She let out a loud moan, and came hard. She came harder than she ever had before. She felt her body tense up, and her pussy gushed juices all over her fingers.
"Oh, Sarah! Oh, Sarah!" Eve cried out.
She came again and again, until her orgasm subsided. She lay on her back, panting heavily, trying to catch her breath.
After a while, she wiped her hand clean with a towel, put her panties back on, and fell asleep.
Sarah's flight had just landed. She took a taxi back to her apartment. Once back, she took a quick shower. While in the shower, she thought of Eve. She couldn't stop thinking about her. Sarah missed her already.
While still there, she started touching herself and thinking about Eve. She came again. This time, though, it was a lot stronger than usual. She felt a surge of energy, and her climax lasted longer and was much more intense.
"Oh, Eve! Eve...!" Sarah, gently cried out.
Sarah dried off, got dressed, and went to bed. She laid down and slowly drifted off into a deep slumber.
And, there ends our erotic tale of Sarah Gold and Evelyn Meyers, their adventures, and the passion and love shared between them.
Story 3: Sophia x Maria | {breastfeeding}
Note: Breastfeeding. One of my earlier works. I really don't know of a more "creative" title, sorry.
Sophia and Maria had been friends since college. They had always been close, but lately, their friendship had taken a deeper, more intimate turn.
They found themselves growing more and more attracted to each other, so much that they were no longer able to keep their hands off of one another when they were alone together.
One day while Maria was over at Sophia's house doing some homework, the 2 women discovered something else they both enjoyed, that being one another's tits! The girls laid down on the couch and started kissing, exploring each others' mouths with their tongues.
After several minutes of this, Sophia broke away from her girlfriend's mouth long enough to point to her own chest, "Maria...those are nice breasts you have there."
Maria couldn't believe what she was hearing. Her special friend had just told her that her breasts were beautiful! She couldn't help but smile.
She looked down at herself and noticed Sophia's eyes zeroing in on her nipples, which had gotten hard from all the stimulation.
Her heart skipped a beat as Sophia licked her lips before reaching out and stroking her right nipple. Maria reached up and began to play with Sophia's left nipple, while she reached down between her legs to rub her clit.
It didn't take too long for the girls to start getting really hot and heavy, especially after Sophia started fingering her pussy and making her moan. Eventually, they decided it was time to move things upstairs to Maria's bedroom.
Once there, the 2 naked ladies made quick work of undressing each other, getting ready to get down to bidness. But before that could happen, they paused to suck on each others' perky nipples again!
Their warm, wet mouths felt amazing on their sensitive tits, so much so that Sophia quickly got distracted by a sensation that she hadn't experienced in quite some time: she had forgotten how good it felt to have someone suck on her boobs!
This made her giggle as she remembered all the times her ex used to do this for her.
But the thought of her ex no longer interested her now.
Instead, all she could think about was getting Maria to suck on those tits just a bit longer. Soon, Maria finally relented and resumed giving Sophia some serious attention.
But after only a few minutes, Sophia felt an intense desire to breastfeed Maria.
So without warning, she took Maria and cradled her, drawing her closer to those sweet breasts. Maria was surprised by this sudden change of events, but she gladly obliged anyway. As Sophia was getting into her tits being sucked, she felt something leaking from the other tit.
Milk? Was it possible that she was lactating already?!
This was totally unexpected (but quite welcome nonetheless!)
A little while later, Sophia cradled Maria to her other leaky tit, as she gently began to nurse her lover. While doing this, she couldn't help but notice the hungry look on Maria's face, the same look she had been craving ever since she saw her friend for the first time that afternoon.
And soon enough, Maria would experience a new feeling as well...something she'd never even thought about experiencing before. Sucking on her girlfriend's tits made her tingle all over. That's when she realized what this actually was: true love.
The milk flowed, the suckling continued as Sophia cradled Maria tighter and held her head gently against her breast. After a few more minutes of nursing, Sophia gently cradled her friend and embraced her tightly, proceeding to lean in for a kiss.
Maria reciprocated eagerly, almost immediately, as their tongues met and danced in a frenzy of passion. At this moment, the 2 girls realized that what they were feeling wasn't just lust, but love, pure, raw love.
This meant they wanted more than just a quickie.
As the 2 women began exploring each other's bodies, Maria once again looked at Sophia's firm, juicy tits. Even though she was extremely turned on by the sight of them, she still needed more than just Sophia's breasts. And that's when Sophia suggested the idea of Maria going down on her.
Of course, Maria jumped at the chance. Just moments later, she was licking her friend's wet pussy like it was the last thing she'd ever want to do in her life. Her tongue swirled around her clit and stimulated her inner walls. Sophia loved EVERY MINUTE of it.
She bobbed Maria's head up and down, up and down, in circles, in tight little strokes...whatever Maria was doing, Sophia loved it. Every stroke of her tongue felt like heaven on her most sensitive parts.
And after about 5 or 6 minutes of this, Maria got the urge to switch places and have Sophia lie down while she went atop her and put her pussy right near her face. So that's exactly what she did.
Sophia enjoyed having her girl sit on top of her while eating her pussy. But more importantly, she liked the fact that Maria had gotten up close and personal with her clit.
Now, Sophia was licking her clit, sucking on it like a popsicle. The action of it was not only arousing, but also stimulating Maria's whole body as well.
After about 10 minutes of playing with her girlfriend's pussy, Sophia noticed a very different type of reaction happening. Not only was Maria squirming in pleasure, she was also starting to lactate like crazy. The flow of milk from Maria's tits was now getting stronger and thicker!
It also had an added flavor to it, which seemed to make Maria come even harder than before. But it wasn't over yet. Maria wanted more. She needed more. She NEEDED IT!
The 2 girls couldn't resist any longer. They quickly rolled onto their sides and Maria cradled Sophia and began breastfeeding her.
Maria felt like the luckiest chick in the world, being able to get such wonderful attention from her special friend. Sophia latched onto Maria's leaky, engorged tit and began suckling her way to ecstasy.
The action of sucking and licking of Maria's tits felt incredible, making Sophia realize just how great and awesome breastfeeding can feel, especially when you're already horny. All too soon, Maria started feeling that familiar tightening sensation deep within her stomach.
Before long, she was gasping in pleasure as her 2nd orgasm of the day hit her. When it was over, Sophia had a similar experience, still latched onto Maria's tit, milk leaking from her mouth and running down her chin.
This was the most amazing feeling she'd ever felt in her whole life!
After their orgasms subsided, the 2 lovely lasses lay in each other's arms, basking in the afterglow, exchanging kisses and talking with one another. After a few minutes, Maria got up and sat on the edge of the bed.
She then pulled Sophia to her feet and guided her towards the bathroom. Once there, she proceeded to wash Sophia's body. She cleaned her friend's hair and neck, massaged her shoulders and back, and even kissed her gently on the lips and sucked on her tits a bit.
Sophia reciprocated, washing Maria's back and rubbing her body all over her friend's. The duo, still naked, hopped into bed and Maria placed her head on Sophia's chest and wrapped her arm around her best friend.
This is where the night ended, the 2 women falling asleep in each other's arms.
Story 4: Sapphire Sutra | {chat-style}
Note: Some kind of interview/chat with your diary thing?
"The name's Alicia. Nothing much to say about myself except that I'm your average 34-year-old Midwest gal."
"What do you do?"
"I'm an amateur journalist. I'm also the writer of a magazine called 'The Reality Factory'."
"The Reality Factory?"
"Yeah, you've probably heard of it. It's a weekly magazine that deals with a wide variety of reality-based subjects. My specialty is interviews, so I usually go out and conduct them. The reality business is a tough one. You need to get the right people for your stories."
"Lemme tell you about this 1 story and this 1 person. The girl's name is Mindy Reynolds. She's 28. Her favorite food is pizza. She likes horror movies. And she likes the same kind of clothes I like."
"How do you know she likes the same clothes you like?"
"Oh, well, cause I well...uh got to know her pretty good. Like, PRETTY GOOD."
"Oh yeah? HOW good?"
"Well, we spent some time together."
"How much time?"
"Well, like a couple days, really."
"Just the 2 of you??"
"Yep. Like, just the 2 us."
"Oh, so you and her were, like, on a date together?"
"Yeah, kinda like that."
"Oooooh, do tell more! I need details, info, c'mon now! Tell me about it!"
"Well, I met her at this convention. I didn't know she was at the convention too."
"Convention?"
"Yeah, the Convention of some random video game and tech stuff. Mindy was attending as a guest and I was just there cause I'm the writer for an article on some of the stuff that was on exhibit. You might know it, it's called, "Strip Minotaur". Cheesy stuff. Well, anyway, I met this hot chick there and we kinda became friends. At first, I didn't know what her job was but I soon found out that she was an amateur filmmaker. And I found out she was also an artist, so she made short movies. Pretty soon, we became best friends and we even started going out."
"She liked you?"
"Oh, yes, I was so flattered when she told me that she liked me. It was the greatest feeling in the world. So, anyway, we went out a few times and she told me that she wanted to take things to the 'next level'. Her words, not mine haha. So we sat down and had a serious talk about it first, and then she told me how much she liked me and how she wanted to go all the way. We talked about a few things first, and then we decided to just go for it."
"What do you mean by 'Go for it'?"
"You know, go to the next level."
"Like, make out?"
"Oh, yeah, we did a lot of makin' out, believe me. She kissed my lips, my ears, and all over my neck. Her tongue felt so good and very VERY sexy. And I loved the feeling of her breasts, and she was real happy to know that I liked them, so she let me play with them and suck on her nipples and kiss them and stuff."
"Wow! Whoa! How far did things get?"
"Well, I think we took things pretty far. Like, you know, we did a little touching, kissing, sucking, licking, everything. We even did a bit of fingering and stuff like that. Mostly over the clothes, but I could feel her pussy gettin' real wet."
"So, you both had sex?"
"Well...eh, not quite, we never actually had full-on sex sex. But we did have some darn good foreplay. Like, we did a bit of oral stuff too. She licked my pussy and sucked on my clit and stuff like that. Of course, I showed her some of that Midwestern charm by lickin' her coochie too."
"Did you finger her?"
"Yeah, a little. We fingered each other for a while. It was pretty hot and it was really kinky."
"Whoa!"
"But my favorite part, oh damn, hmmmmmm, just thinkin' about it makes me wet. My favorite part was when I got to wrap my mouth around her honkers. Those titties were just so gosh darn perfect and they tasted so sweet and so delicious. I just couldn't stop lickin' and suckin' on 'em."
"Honkers?!"
"Yeah, honkers, knockers, jugs, and the million other words for boobs! Anyway, Mindy also liked playin' with my honkers too. In fact, she was the one who was touchin' and suckin' on my knockers first. She said she loved the size and shape of my titties. In her words, 'they were just perfect, Alicia.' Wow, hearing her say that made me feel so--"
"...Amazing?"
"I guess so, yeah. Mindy was a real special gal. There was somethin' different about her. Somethin' special. Somethin'..."
"Sexy?"
"Yeah, she was VERY sexy. Mindy had this air of sexual energy about her. A horny vibe, heh. She always radiated this raw sexual aura, ya know? Every time we touched and kissed, it was like a spark or a shock or somethin' was being sent through our bodies. It was this incredible orgasmic sensation. Every single kiss and every single lick and every single touch was like--like a mini orgasm. And we both couldn't get enough of it."
"Speaking of orgasms, did you? Did she? Did you both?"
"Awww, heck yeah! Many, many times. I lost track of how many orgasms we had. Like, Mindy and I were just makin' out and stuff and then all of a sudden, she started rubbing her pussy and she started moanin' and groanin' and she started cummin'. Like, she just started fingering herself and stuff. It was so darn sexy and so damn hot. Mindy just couldn't control herself. And after she was done, she told me that she was 'just so horny', hehe. And she started rubbin' and suckin' on my honkers again and she told me that she wanted 'to make ME cum too'. And she did. She made me cum many, many, MANY times. We couldn't stop cummin'. Our pussies just couldn't stop gushin' and flowin' and drippin' and stuff. We just couldn't control ourselves. We just kept doin' more and more and more of the same thing."
"More and more of the same thing?"
"Damn right we did! Cuz that worked wonders for us. Mindy and I just couldn't get enough of suckin' and lickin' and touchin' and stuff like that. It was like...the best darn sex I've ever had this side of the Mississippi, hahaha."
"Wow, Mindy sounds like one hell of a gal! And she sounds like one damn horny babe too!"
"She was definitely a damn horny girl. Like, she had a sex drive unlike anyone I've ever seen 'fore. Like, we could be watchin' a movie together and then all of a sudden, Bad-Ta-Doom, out come her clothes and in come her jugs into my mouth, haha. And her nipples, oh my, I couldn't resist suckin' and lovin' on her nipples. They were like the best darn 'candy' I've ever had. They were so soft and juicy and they were just the right amount of sweetness. Not too much, not too little, but just the right amount."
"Hmmm, it sounds like you and Mindy had a damn good time together."
"We did. We had a really darn good time together! It was like a dream. It was so magical and so mystical and it was the most incredible experience of my life. Like, I had NEVER experienced anything like that. Like, ever."
"And you and Mindy are still close?"
"Yes, we are. We talk almost every day."
"So, I take it that the 2 of you are planning on seein' each other again, huh?"
"I hope so. I'd like that very much. But who knows? We live on opposite ends of the country and we're quite busy with our work, so that could be a problem."
"Yeah, that is a problem. But maybe there's a solution. Maybe the 2 of you should get together again, ya know, to do an 'afternoon delight' or a quickie?"
"Ooooooh, yeah, I was thinkin' the same thing! I'd love that more than anythin' in the world! Just to lay my head on Mindy's chest and listen to her heartbeat, or maybe have her suck on my boobies or me lickin' her coochie. Man, I'd give anythin' to spend another gosh darn second with her!"
"Maybe you ought to pick up that phone and dial 'er up."
"Heh, yeah, maybe I oughta, heh."
"So, did you and Mindy have a romantic time together? Did she ever say, 'I love you'?"
"Not that I can remember. But we was having a darn good time and I was havin' a darn good time with her. I feel like I was fallin' in love with her. The way she laughed, the way she smiled, the way she touched me, the way she kissed me, and the way she smelled and the way her skin felt. ALL OF IT! It was so perfect. And, if I was fallin' in love with her, then she was probably fallin' in love with me too. So, I'm hopin' that if the 2 of us do ever meet up again, that we'll get a chance to talk more about 'us', I guess."
"So, what in the hell are you waitin' for, dial 'er up! Give her a ring, Alicia! Call her up, right now! Tell her you wanna meet, do some Netflix and Chill or whatever secret, crazy slang y'all got for sex this week."
"Heh, yeah, I guess I oughta. Thanks for the encouragement."
"No problem."
"Alright, wish me luck, here goes nothin'."
"Close me, put the pen down, and ring her up, goshdangit!"
Story 5: Elena x Kara | {step stuff}
Note: stepmom x stepdaughter
"You know, I've never liked her," Kara says, her eyes narrowed as she watches the brunette in the kitchen. "But now that she's my stepmom, it's like she's everywhere."
She types it off and sends it to her best friend, who responds almost instantly, "Oh, you're telling me. My pals are obsessed with her cooking. I can't get a decent meal without thinking of her signature dishes anymore."
"GTFO. I'm forced to eat this stuff every day," Kara grins, rolling her eyes. She couldn't help but feel a twinge of jealousy at the ease with which her friends seemed to accept her new stepmom, Elena.
The way they raved about her lasagna, her apple pies, and her comforting presence at family gatherings made Kara's skin crawl.
It had been a year since Kara moved into Elena's apartment, and while everyone else had embraced her, Elena (of all people) remained cold, unable to shake off the feeling that Kara was somehow infringing on her sacred space or whatever.
Still, there was something else bubbling beneath the surface of Kara's resentment. Something she couldn't quite put her finger on.
She watches as Elena moves around the kitchen with an elegant grace, her apron tied neatly around her waist.
The smell of roast chicken fills the air, and the clinking of pots and pans creates a rhythm that is oddly soothing despite her irritation.
Kara sighs, deeply and in a frustrated manner, "It's like she's trying to win everyone over," she types furiously into her phone. She can't shake the feeling that Elena's perfection is a faade, a mask hiding some supposed "darker" intent.
Her thumbs hover over the screen, debating whether to share the thought with her friend. Before she can hit send, Elena's voice calls out from the kitchen.
"Oh, Kara, darling, you simply have to try this. C'mere." Elena's voice is sugary sweet Southern belle, a stark contrast to the sourness that had taken root in Kara's thoughts.
She begrudgingly gets up from her bed, the floorboards groaning in protest under her feet, and pads into the kitchen.
Kara rolls her eyes in an exaggerated manner, groaning internally, and walks into the kitchen.
The warmth from the oven hits her like a welcoming embrace, and the aroma of the roast chicken fills her nostrils, making her stomach rumble.
Despite her resentment, she couldn't deny that Elena's cooking was divine. The golden chicken glistened on the serving dish, surrounded by a cornucopia of roasted vegetables. The tantalizing scent made Kara's mouth water, betraying her true feelings.
She hadn't eaten anything the whole day, and the sight of the perfectly roasted chicken made her realize how hungry she is.
She takes the plate Elena offers with a forced smile, trying to ignore the warmth of her stepmother's hand brushing against hers.
"Thank you," she mumbles, retreating to the dining table with the yummies.
Her fork penetrates the tender chicken, the juices seeping into the mashed potatoes below. The 1st bite is heavenly, the flavors dancing in her mouth. Kara can't help but let out a small moan of satisfaction.
Elena's eyes light up with pride from the kitchen island, a smug smile playing on her lips.
Elena smugly and silently returns to her cooking, her movements a dance of precision and grace.
Kara's eyes follow her stepmother, noticing the way the apron strings swayed with her hips and the way her hair was pinned up, exposing her neck in a way that seemed...seductive?
"No!" she anxiously and hurriedly scolds herself, "That's...just your imagination, K."
Just her imagination. Nothing more, right? Elena is Kara's stepmother, for fuck's sake! But why, oh why, did she have to be so...appealing?
It was infuriating.
It IS infuriating!
With her mouth full of food, Kara couldn't help but steal glances at Elena as she moved around the kitchen. The way she stirred the gravy, the curviness of her body, the way she tasted the sauce and pursed her lips...it was all too much.
Kara grunts and takes her plate to her room, unable to ignore the electricity that seemed to crackle in the air between them. She flops onto her bed, the soft mattress enveloping her in a comforting embrace. Her mind races with thoughts of Elena, her stepmother's beauty, and the way her eyes had lingered on her when she took the plate.
The 26-year-old Kara continued to shovel the delicious meal into her mouth, the tension in the air thick enough to cut with a sharp knife. She couldn't shake off the feeling that Elena's touch had lingered on her hand, a phantom sensation that made her palms tingle.
"Goddamn fucking MILF vibes," Kara mutters under her breath, the taste of Elena's cooking lingering on her tongue. She tries to focus on her TV show, but her eyes keep drifting back to the kitchen, watching Elena's silhouette as she tidies up.
Elena is in her early-40s, a woman who's carries herself with grace and poise. Her eyes, a piercing shade of blue, seem to see through Kara's every faade. She's got this air about her, a quiet confidence that Kara can't help but find...alluring?
No, she can't be falling for her freaking stepmom, can she?
A smidgen of sauce dribbles down her chin, and Kara quickly swipes it away, her cheeks flushing with a mix of embarrassment and arousal.
She couldn't believe the thoughts she's having. It's just the stress of the move, she convinced herself. Nothing more.
But the more she tried to rationalize, the more her gaze was drawn back to curvaceous Elena's figure.
Kara tightly swallows the lump of chewed food in her mouth, her thoughts racing. She's absolutely into women, but older women? Her ex-girlfriend's face flashes in her mind, and she can't help but compare her to Elena.
She was a mess, never around when she needed her, never took care of her. Meanwhile, Elena...
Elena has that classic, kind-hearted Southern charm that seems to melt everyone around her. But not Kara. She's the Northern ice queen to Elena's warm embrace, refusing to let her guard down.
Yet, as the months pass, Kara finds it harder to ignore the way her heart skips a beat whenever Elena simply enters the room.
She tries to focus on her unpredictable freelancing gig, her small circle of friends, her hobbies (bracelet making), but the pull is undeniable.
Elena works as a clerk at the local bookstore, and Kara often finds herself there, not for the books, but for the chance to watch her stepmother from a safe distance. She's always dressed so neatly, her blouses tucked into her high-waisted skirts, her glasses perched on her nose as she helps customers with a gentle smile.
It's like watching some kinda live-action romance novel, and Kara is the unwilling protagonist, caught in the plot's steamy embrace.
A week later...
Kara has come down with the flu and the local Southern climate isn't helping (yeehaw). She's laid up in bed, feverish and miserable, when Elena knocks softly on her door.
"Bluuuuurgh," this and many more weird and unpleasant sounds are coming from Kara's throat as she stirs from a deep, feverish sleep. Her eyes crack open, and she's met with a blurry vision of Elena standing over her, a tray of goodies in hand.
"I brought you some chicken noodle soup, darling. It's just what the doctor ordered," Elena says in her ever so soothing voice, setting the tray on the bedside table.
"Hmmmph. Urgh. So...siiiiick. Can't believe this," Kara groans, pushing herself up on her elbows. She feels like a soggy noodle, her body weak and her brain foggy.
Elena sits herself down at the edge of the bed, her hand reaching out to touch Kara's forehead. The coolness of her skin feels like heaven against the burning heat of Kara's fever, "Aww, you poor thing," she says, her voice full of genuine concern.
Kara callously swats the caring hand away, and looks to the side, embarrassed and frustrated by her own body's betrayal, "I'm fine," she mumbles, trying to keep her voice steady, but it cracks under the weight of her sickness.
Elena presses her lips into a tight line and shakes her head from side to side, "You're not fine, Kara. You're burning up," she says with a gentle yet firm tone.
She scoops a spoonful of the steaming soup and brings it to Kara's mouth, ignoring the blonde's weak protests.
Kara moues and clicks her tongue, but the scent of chicken soup fills her nostrils, and her stomach growls. She can't resist, and she takes the spoon from Elena's hand, sipping the hot broth greedily. It's heavenly, and she can feel the warmth spreading through her body, battling the wretched fever.
Elena gently coos like a nurse, her hand supporting the back of Kara's neck as she feeds her another spoonful of the soul-soothing soup. Kara's eyes flutter closed as the warmth spreads through her body, soothing the aches and pains brought on by the dreaded flu.
Kara holds her hand up and asks for a few seconds to breathe. She can feel the warmth of Elena's hand through her hair, and it sends a shiver down her spine, "Thanks," she whispers, her voice hoarse.
"Of course, darling. Just cuz you're my stepdaughter don't mean you're not still my friend," Elena says with a smile, her eyes filled with genuine care.
Kara's throat tightens as she feels the weight of Elena's words. She's never had anyone take care of her like this, not in a long-ass time.
They sit there in silence for a few moments, the only sound being the clinking of the spoon against the porcelain bowl. Kara's eyes drift over to Elena's hand, her fingers long and slender, and she can't help but imagine them running over her own body, bringing her comfort in a way that's of a different kind.
Still, in her current state, Kara would just pass on the nasties to Elena, and she'd pass it on to everyone else in turn, "No, no, you should go," Kara says, her voice cracking. "I don't want you to get sick too."
Elena clicks her tongue. "Tsk, tsk. I've been 'round worse, Kara. It's the flu, as long as you get your vaccines and some rest, you'll be right as rain," she says, her Southern drawl wrapping around the words like a warm blanket.
She takes the spoon and continues to feed Kara, her gaze never leaving her.
For a split second, Kara's bleary eyes fall down to Elena's cleavage that's peeking out from her loosely buttoned blouse. She quickly looks away, feigning a cough to cover her blush, "I appreciate it," she murmurs, the spoonful of soup slipping down her throat like a warm, liquid embrace.
"See something you like?" Elena asks playfully, noticing Kara's eyes dart away.
Kara's cheeks flush hotter than the soup she's consuming. She's not sure if it's the fever or her stepmother's teasing tone that's setting her on fire.
Kara stammers and struggles to formulate a response, her heart hammering in her chest, "It's just...the light," she says, trying to play it off, her eyes avoiding Elena's knowing gaze.
Elena is no gosh darn fool. She sees the way Kara's eyes dart away and the pink that floods her cheeks. She knows what that look means.
But she's a woman of patience, a tender-hearted hunter of hearts. She'll bide her time.
A naughty smirk forms on her face as she dips the spoon into the soup again, bringing it to Kara's eager lips, "Eat up, darling. You need your strength," she says, her voice dripping with double meaning.
Kara's quavering lips part to accept the next spoonful, her eyes unable to resist meeting Elena's. They're so close, Kara can feel Elena's warm breath on her face, smell the faint scent of her lavender perfume mixed with the aroma of the soup.
She takes a deep breath, her chest tightening with an unexpected yearning. The moment stretches out, the air thick with something that feels suspiciously like desire.
Elena sniffs the air, her smile widening as she takes in the scent of Kara's feverish arousal, a faint hint of sweat and mint, "I think I've got just the thing for that," she says, her voice dropping to a whisper.
She sets the soup aside and reaches into her pocket, pulling out a small bottle of perfume.
Elena calmly asks her stepdaughter to hold out her wrist, and Kara complies, her pulse racing as Elena dabs a bit of the perfume onto her skin.
She brings it closer to her nose and takes a deep breath, the sweet scent filling her senses and mixing with the comforting aroma of the soup, "It's...it's nice," Kara manages to say, her voice a mere whisper.
"I made it myself," Elena says, her voice beaming with a certain sense of pride and accomplishment, "It's a blend of lavender and vanilla. I find it quite calming."
Kara musters a smile, trying to ignore the way her body responds to Elena's nearness. She can feel the warmth from Elena's hand as it lingers on her wrist, and she has to fight the urge to lean into her stepmother's touch. It's like a moth to a flame, sort of.
Even if either of them wanted so badly to act on their burningly-passionate desires, the sickness was a clear barrier.
Elena knows it isn't the right time. Not now, hun.
With a sigh, she pulls back her hand and stands up, "Alright, darling. I'll let you rest. Call me if you need anything," she says, her voice still holding a hint of the seductive tease.
Kara weakly nods and reaches for her phone as Elena exits the room. Her heart thuds against her chest, a confusing mix of emotions swirling inside her. She tries to push the thoughts away, focusing on the TV show playing in the background, but the silence is deafening.
She can still feel the ghost of Elena's touch on her forehead and her wrist.
She texts her friend again, trying to shake off the unsettling feelings: "What do you think of Elena?" Kara writes, her thumbs moving sluggishly over the screen.
The response comes back almost immediately: "What's to think? She's cool. Hot stepmom vibes, obviously."
"Yeah, about that...I think I might be catching some weird feels," Kara types out, her thumbs moving a little too fast for her own comfort. She hits send before she can take it back, her heart racing faster than the blinking cursor.
":-O what the actual fuck?!" her friend's texted response pops up on Kara's screen: "You're not supposed to get those feels for your stepmom. That's like...uh idk what to say omg lol wtf all that."
Kara's thumbs hover over the phone, contemplating a snappy comeback, but she can't deny the truth of the statement. She sighs, setting the phone aside and staring at the wall.
She blows a raspberry and tosses her phone aside, her thoughts racing. This isn't happening. She can't be attracted to Elena, right? It's just the sickness messing with her head. But the feeling is persistent, like a firefly buzzing around her.
Elena is at the dining table, a mixed look of amusement and curiosity playing on her face as she reads a romantic fantasy novel.
Kara, feeling slightly better, emerges from her room wearing an oversized tee that clings to her dampened body. She's lost her appetite for everything but the woman before her.
The sight of Elena's plump lips moving as she reads sends a shiver down her spine. Elena thumbs through the pages, her eyes glued to the book. Kara's stomach turns with a mix of hunger and desire, and she tries to convince herself it's just the flu messing with her.
But she can't ignore the way Elena's legs are crossed, the fabric of her skirt riding up just enough to show off the top of her thighs.
Kara licks her lips and takes a few shaky steps towards the kitchen, her eyes never leaving Elena's voluptuous figure. She pours herself a glass of water, the condensation running down the side and pooling onto the counter. Her hand shakes slightly as she brings the glass to her mouth, her eyes straying back to Elena.
Elena can feel her stepdaughter's lustful gaze on her, and she can't help but smirk to herself. She's seen it before, the way women look at her when they're interested. But this...this is new and uncharted territory. She's never had the hots for someone she's supposed to think of as "family".
She pipes up, "Somethin' I can do for you, darlin'?" Oh, that damn sweet seductive Southern drawl. It's like it's designed to make Kara's knees weak, and her knees are already plenty weak thanks to the flu.
Kara nervously spits out a lie, "N--no, I just needed water." She tries to keep her voice steady, but it's shaking almost as much as her hand holding the glass. She takes a deep gulp, the cool liquid soothing her dry throat but not her racing thoughts. She tries to tear her gaze away from Elena, but it's like her eyes are magnetically drawn to her stepmother's curvy curves.
Elena loudly reads out a random line from her romantasy novel, her voice dripping with sarcasm, "Ah, the heroine's about to make love. How utterly original," she says, not looking up from the page.
Kara's eyes widen at this sudden outburst, and she can't help but laugh. It's a welcome sound, breaking the tension in the room like a pin to a balloon, "You read that stuff?" she asks, her voice still hoarse from the sickness but laced with curiosity.
"'Course I do. Everyone needs a hobby. I know you like your bracelet making and I have a thing for cheesy sapphic erotica," Elena says with a wink, "It's like watching a bad rom-com. You know it's terrible, but you can't stop watching."
Kara mutters under her breath, "Or a porno from Mommy's Girl."
She couldn't help but feel a bit exposed, "Yeah, well, everyone needs a guilty pleasure." She tries to play it cool, but the heat from her cheeks gives her away.
"Hmm, what was that?" Elena's head snaps up from her book, a knowing smile playing on her lips. She's caught Kara off guard, and she loves it, "You OK, darlin'?" she asks, her eyes glinting with mischief.
"Yeah, yeah, yeah. I'm gonna go back and rest," Kara says, trying to sound nonchalant as she sets the empty glass down. She turns to leave, her heart hammering in her chest like a drumline at a football game.
"Get well soon! And maybe, just maybe, I'll let you borrow 1 of my books," Elena calls after Kara, her smile lingering like a secret between them.
Kara likes watching her porn, not reading through it like some kind of Victorian-era type, but she keeps that little tidbit to herself. She mumbles something about being tired and shuffles back to her room, the door clicking shut with finality.
She throws her limp and weak body onto her bed, the comforter a lifeless mountain she must conquer. Her phone buzzes again.
Her friend's response to her confession is a series of laughing emojis followed by a flurry of questions and exclamation marks: "You're so full of shit. PLZ Tell me more," it reads.
"Srsly getting like Niagara Falls whenever I'm around her, ngl, it's weird," Kara texts back, her thumbs moving with surprising agility despite her weakened state. She can feel the heat rising in her cheeks again, her body responding to the mere thought of Elena's touch.
"I'm also feeling like Niagara Falls down there just imagining it," her friend responds with a winky face. Kara's cheeks burn with a blend of embarrassment and...something else.
She's not sure if it's the fever or the conversation, but she can't deny the thrill that runs through her body.
To taste of the fruit forbidden, to feel the heat of a passion that should not be, it's a dance that plays out in Kara's mind every time she's around Elena. And today, with her defenses down thanks to the flu, the dance is more intense than ever.
"I imagine what it'd be like to suck on Elena's perkies," Kara's friend sends back, her text bubbles popping up with a mischievous glint.
Kara's phone vibrates against her thigh, and she hastily moves it away, as if the device itself is a hot coal that could burn her.
Kara lazily responds with a series of face palm emojis, trying to ignore the sudden ache between her legs. She flops back onto her pillows, her thoughts racing. She's never felt this way about a "family member", especially not one who's taken on the role of stepmother. It's wrong, right? But it feels so...right?
72 hours later...
Kara is all well and no more sick after 3 whole days of Elena's meticulous, tender, and loving care. The fever has broken, the cough has ceased, and she's back to her usual self- well, almost. The lingering ache between her legs hasn't disappeared with her illness, and she can't shake the memory of Elena's gentle ministrations.
She's doing some amateur pilates in her room, sweat trickling down her neck, when Elena knocks and enters without waiting for a response, "You should be taking it easy, darlin'. You're not fully recovered yet," Elena says, her eyes taking in Kara's form-fitting workout clothes, her chest heaving with exertion.
A bit of Kara's cleavage peeks out from her sports bra as she sits up, a bead of sweat rolling down her collarbone.
She can't help but feel a little self-conscious under Elena's gaze, her nipples hardening at the thought of her stepmother watching her, "I'm fine, really. I just needed to get some energy out," she says, trying to keep her voice steady.
Elena is wearing a sharp suit and a pencil skirt that hugs her curves, looking like a saleswoman ready to close some deals and shit. She walks over to Kara, placing a hand on her shoulder, "Why don't you take it easy and watch a movie instead?" she suggests, her eyes scanning Kara's body.
Kara blinks the sweat out of her eyes, her breath coming in ragged gasps, "I'm OK, really," she insists, though her body seems to disagree as it trembles slightly under Elena's gentle touch. She can't deny the comfort it brings, though, and the warmth spreads through her like a balm.
She proceeds to ask her stepmom where she is going, dressed like that, "Who are you suing?" Kara's voice is a mix of curiosity and something else, something she can't quite put her finger on.
Elena heartily laughs at her stepdaughter's question, "Sue someone? Oh, darlin', I'm just going to work at the bookstore. Dressing up makes me feel professional," she says, her eyes sparkling with a hint of something that makes Kara's heart skip a beat.
She takes a deep breath, trying to ignore the scent of Elena's perfume that lingers in the air, reminding her of the intimate moments they shared during her illness.
"What do you have to watch around here, anyway?" Elena asks, her eyes lingering on Kara's lovely (albeit sweaty) figure, "I know you've got those fancy streaming services," she says, her voice dropping to a purr.
Kara's stomach does a little flip-flop, and she wonders if Elena knows more than she's letting on.
"Um...I was binging Season 2 of The White Lotus," Kara replies, hoping her cheeks aren't giving away the full spectrum of her blush.
She quickly wipes her forehead with the back of her hand, trying to play it cool, "But I could always use some watch company."
Elena exclaims, "Oh, I've been meaning to finish the 1st Season! I heard it's quite the drama." Her eyes twinkle as she suggests, "Why don't we watch it together?" The proposal hangs in the air, thick with unspoken tension.
Kara shrugs, trying to act nonchalant, "Sure, why not?" She grabs a towel to wipe down her neck and chest, her heart racing like it's doing intense cardio. She's not sure if she's ready to be in such close proximity to Elena again, especially after their charged interactions during her sickness.
Elena smiles and prepares to head out to the bookstore, leaving Kara in the living room, surrounded by the faint scent of her homemade soup. The TV's on, and Kara's about to start watching some random cooking thing when she hears the front door open and close.
She takes a deep breath, trying to shake off the weird feelings that have been clinging to her like a sticky cobweb since Elena started taking care of her.
She begins to text her close friend about the awkwardness of the situation, but the words don't come out right. Her thoughts are a jumble of "What the fuck?!" and "What if she...?" and "Oh god, what if she doesn't!?" She sends a string of question marks instead, her thumb hovering over the send button.
Her friend texts back with a longer string of question marks followed by some very suggestive emojis.
Kara rolls her eyes but can't help the smile that forms. It's nice to have someone to confide in, even if she's being ridiculous. She sends back a quick message, saying she's going to watch TV and forget about it, then tosses her phone onto the couch cushion.
The phone vibrates and Kara's eyes dart over to it, a mix of excitement and dread. What if Elena had changed her mind? What if she didn't want to come back?
But the text is from her friend, not Elena: "Oh, come on, you know you want it. Just go for it gurl," it reads, followed by a winking emoji and a few peaches.
Kara sighs and picks up the remote, clicking through the channels.
Hours pass, as Kara goes from TV to phone to TV again, the room a silent testament to her indecision. The sun dips below the horizon, and the house is bathed in a warm, orange glow that seems to highlight every crevice and curve of Elena's absence.
Kara's about to give up hope when she hears the sound of the door opening, and the click of high heels echoing through the hallway.
Elena cheerfully announces her return. She's holding a brown grocery bag, the smell of freshly baked bread wafting in from outside, "Look what I brought back!" she says, her eyes meeting Kara's with a knowing glint.
Kara's stomach rumbles, but it's not just hunger for food.
It's hunger for pussy.
Kara suppresses those urges and offers to take the filled bag from Elena's arms, "Let me help," she says, her voice a little too eager. Elena's eyes sparkle as she lets Kara take the bag, their hands brushing together, sending a jolt of electricity through Kara's body.
Elena says that the grocery store had some good discounts on baked goodies, veggies, and all that stuff. Kara follows Elena into the kitchen, her eyes drawn to the sway of her hips in the tight skirt.
"What's the movie?" Elena asks, her voice light and airy, as if the heaviness in the room isn't suffocating them both.
Kara stammers. "Uh...I was just absentmindedly flipping channels or scrolling through my phone while you were out, so nothing's started yet," she admits, her cheeks reddening. She feels like a person with a crush who's been caught red-handed.
Elena runs her hands down her curvaceous body, as if wiping some invisible dust, "Well, we can't have that, can we?"
She grins and adds, "Let's pick something fun, something that'll make us laugh," she suggests, her eyes flickering to Kara's flustered face before heading to the TV.
Kara almost chokes on her own spit as she watches Elena approach the TV, her hips swaying with a grace that seems almost otherworldly, "L--Laughing sounds good," she manages to croak out, her mind racing with images that have nothing to do with comedy.
And more to do with eroticism and romance.
She sheepishly makes her way to the living room and sits on the single-seat sofa.
Elena moues in disapproval, "Oh, Kara, darling, you can't sit all the way over there by your lonesome. You're not giving us enough snuggle space," she says, patting the couch next to her. Kara's heart does a little dance of dread and anticipation.
"I--I'm fine here, honest."
Elena clicks her tongue, "Come now, are you still worried that you're gonna pass the flu onto your step mommy?" she teases, a knowing smile playing on her lips.
Kara gulps, her heart racing, "It's just...I don't want to get you sick," she says weakly.
"I'm vaccinated against the darn thing and so are you, darlin'. Besides, I'm a strong gal," Elena says, her voice like honey. She sashays over to the single sofa and sits down on the armrest, her leg brushing against Kara's. The heat from her body is palpable, and Kara can't ignore it anymore.
Kara's eyes go over to Elena's breasts and she can't help but wonder what's under that suit jacket, "So, what's the plan for tonight?" Kara asks, trying to keep the conversation as casual as possible.
"I believe the younger generation calls it 'Chill and Netflix' or something to that effect."
Kara almost gags and laughs at Elena's attempt to be hip. "OK, 'Chill and Netflix' it is," she says, her voice a mix of amusement and nerves. She tries to act cool, but her heart is racing like fucking Speed Racer on speed.
Kara finally concedes and joins her beloved stepmother on the big couch, their legs tangling together as Elena takes charge of the TV remote. The room is suffused with the warmth of Elena's presence, and Kara can't ignore the way her skin tingles where they touch.
She tries to focus on the TV screen, but her eyes keep darting over to Elena, who seems utterly oblivious to the turmoil brewing inside her.
Or does she know, and is she simply playing coy?
A random documentary seems to be airing on the TV, but neither of them pay much attention to it. Kara's eyes are glued to Elena's boobs, her mind racing with thoughts she's not ready to admit aloud. Elena pays attention to the documentary, but her eyes do sneak peaks at Kara's bare legs.
In the middle of a commercial break, Elena casually asks, "So, Kara, how long have you been doing this workout thing for? You do seem pretty...flexible," she says it with a sly smile, her eyes sliding down Kara's legs and back up to her chest.
Kara swallows the lump forming in her throat, "Oh, um...for about 18 months now. Yeah, it's something I do to keep fit and all the usual jazz."
Elena is genuinely impressed by her stepdaughter's commitment to fitness, "You're doing a great job," she says, her eyes lingering on the way Kara's sweatpants hug her toned thighs.
"You know, I used to be quite the Jane Fonda enthusiast," she adds, her voice taking on a nostalgic lilt, "But work took over, and I had to prioritize."
Kara awkwardly laughs along, "Yeah, cool, cool." She's trying so hard to keep her composure, but it's like trying to keep a beach ball underwater. It's just not fuckin' happening.
Elena unbuttons the top buttons of her shirt and arches her back to stretch, her ample cleavage peeking out. Kara can't help but stare, her eyes drawn to those inviting mounds like a moth to a flame. The room feels hot, and it's not just because of the Southern heat.
Kara clears her throat and tries anything to distract herself, focusing on the TV. The documentary has moved on to something about honeybees, but she can't for the life of her remember what it's about. Her eyes flick back to Elena's chest, the way the fabric stretches taut over her breasts.
Elena remarks on the TV show, "These little buzzers are fascinating, aren't they? So much to learn from their social structure."
Kara nods, trying to follow the conversation while her mind is a raging battleground of lust and confusion.
Suddenly, Elena says, "My goodness, it's so hot in here! This time of year always gets to me," as she fans herself with a magazine.
She stands up, her skirt hugging her hips as she moves to the thermostat. The sight of her standing there, in her tight skirt, is like a siren's call to Kara.
Kara licks her lips as Elena adjusts the thermostat to something more comfortable. The air in the room feels charged with a tension that's palpable, and Kara can't ignore the way her skin prickles with anticipation. She tries to keep her eyes on the TV, but they keep straying back to Elena's curvy body, her mind playing out scenes she's convinced she shouldn't be thinking about.
Elena says she's going to the bathroom for a quick spritz of cold water, "Do you need anything?" she asks over her shoulder, her skirt riding up slightly as she walks away, revealing the lacy band of her panties.
Kara shakes her head, unable to form words.
Instead, she seizes on this moment to text her close friend about how hot Elena is and how she can't stop thinking about her: "What the fuck is happening to me?" she types out, her thumbs moving with the speed of sound itself.
Her friend's response is quick and to the point: "You're crushing on your stepmom. It's wild, but hey, you're not the 1st and u won't be the last."
"TF should i do about it?!" Kara texts back, her thumbs flying over the screen as she tries to make sense of her feelings. She can still feel the warmth from where Elena's leg had been pressed against hers.
"Act on it ;-) or be a prude and let that sweet, tasty cougar pussy pass you by. Hell, if she's available, send her my digits, I'd looooove me some cougar action," her friend texts back, complete with a drooling emoji.
Kara's cheeks burn with a mix of embarrassment and...desire?
"Act on it? are u smoking pot again?! how should i even initiate such a thing?! she's my stepmom!" Kara types back in a hurry, her heart racing like it's in a marathon. She can't believe she's even considering this.
"Just...like, idk, peck her on the cheek or something. Like how they do in those Mommy's Girl vids u love sending me," her friend texts, the words hitting Kara like a sledgehammer.
She looks at the TV, the documentary playing out scenes of bees doing their thing, and feels the heat of Elena's touch still lingering on her shoulder.
Kara shakily lets out a laugh, dropping her phone onto the couch cushion. She's never felt so torn apart by desire and disbelief. But as she looks around the room, she knows she can't keep this to herself much longer. She needs advice, guidance, something to navigate these interesting waters.
Elena walks back in, humming some tune from the 1990s, her skirt swaying with every step. She's holding an ice cube in her hand, which she runs down the side of her neck, her eyes flickering to Kara as she does so, "Much better," she says with a sigh, the cold droplets of water tracing a path down her exposed cleavage.
She plumps herself down next to Kara, her leg brushing against hers again. Kara tries not to react, but the electricity between them feels like a live wire. She shifts in her seat, the fabric of her sweatpants sticking to her skin, her heart racing like a Formula 1 car on the last lap.
Elena simply asks, "So, what'd I miss?"
Her eyes are sparkling with mischief as she settles into the couch cushions. Kara's mind is racing with all the ways she could interpret that question, but she sticks to the safe bet.
"Uh...I haven't been paying much attention. I was uh...um...thinking," Kara stammers, her eyes darting back to the TV screen, desperately trying to focus on the bees.
Elena looks concerned, "Thinking? About what, darling? You know that you can come to your step mommy about anything," she says, her hand reaching out to gently pat Kara's leg. The warmth of her touch sends a shiver down Kara's spine.
"Any--anything? Like, literally anything?" Kara's voice is shakier than a leaf in a tornado, her leg jerking slightly under Elena's touch. She's about to spill the beans about her feelings, but she chickens out, her mouth going dry.
Elena musses Kara's hair around her fingers, her eyes never leaving the TV, "Kara, honey, you know you can talk to me about anything. I'm here for you," she says, her voice a gentle reminder of the bond that's been growing between them.
"Any--anything? Right, are--are you sure?"
Elena is as patient as ever, her eyes still glued to the TV, "Of course, darling. You know that. We're family now," she says, her voice soothing like a warm cup of tea on a rainy day.
Kara feels like she's about to burst like a piata at a birthday party.
Kara gulps and turns to face Elena, her heart pounding in her chest, "There's something I...I need to tell you," she whispers, her voice trembling with anticipation.
Elena's eyes finally leave the TV screen and meet hers, full of curiosity and concern.
"Of course, dear. Go on. I'm all ears, Kara. What's been bothering you?" Elena's voice is like a warm summer breeze, caressing Kara's nerves and calming her racing thoughts.
"I like you. Like, really like you," Kara blurts out, her face on fire.
Elena's eyes widen, a smile playing at the corners of her lips as she takes in the earnestness of Kara's confession.
"Is that so?" she asks, her voice teasing and light, a playful glint in her eye, "How do you 'like' me, Kara?" She leans in, her breath hot against Kara's cheek, and Kara feels like she's going to faint.
Kara moves away from Elena slightly, her eyes darting around the room, "I mean, like...LIKE you, ya know," she clarifies, her voice barely a murmur. The silence stretches out like a tightrope between them, and Kara feels like she's about to fall.
Elena, for her part, calmly takes a moment to digest Kara's words, her eyes never leaving Kara's flushed face.
She reaches for the TV remote and turns off the documentary, the sudden silence amplifying the thump of Kara's racing heart, "Kara, sweetheart," she begins, her voice low and velvety, "You're my stepdaughter, and I will always care for you deeply..." she trails off, searching for the right words.
Kara fills in the tense silence by blurting out, "It's just that you're...you're so beautiful and kind, and...and I just can't help the way I feel," her voice trembling like a leaf in a storm.
Elena's smile fades, and she looks at Kara with a softness that makes her heart flutter like a bird in a cage.
"Since when did you...harbor these feelings?" Elena's voice is gentle, her gaze piercing into Kara's being. Kara feels like she's under a microscope, but she can't lie. Not anymore.
"A few months since I moved back into your apartment. I was just so overwhelmed by your kindness, your hospitality, your...everything," Kara confesses, her eyes searching Elena's for any sign of what she might be thinking.
Elena's hand is still resting on her leg, the heat of it a comfort and a torment at the same time.
Elena narrows her eyes in thought, her hand still resting on Kara's leg, "A few months, you say?" Her voice is a purr, and Kara can't help but nod, feeling like a rabbit caught in a wolf's gaze, "And why haven't you told me sooner?"
"Because!" Kara squeaks out, her heart hammering in her chest like a drumline, "I didn't know how you'd react, and I didn't want to ruin things and get fuckin' kicked out for being some kinda weirdo," she says, her voice shaking.
Elena gently strokes Kara's cheek, her thumb making small circles that send shockwaves of pleasure up her spine, "You think I'd kick you out for having feelings?" she asks, her voice a soft caress.
Kara's breath hitches in her throat as she looks into Elena's eyes, searching for the truth.
"Uh...yeah. I mean, it's pretty intense, right? You're my stepmom, right?" Kara murmurs, her eyes darting away from Elena's gaze.
Elena continues affectionately stroking Kara's cheek, her thumb tracing the line of her jaw, "Kara, I've noticed the way you look at me, the way you react to my touch. I've felt the tension growing between us," she confesses, her eyes dark with something that could be desire.
Kara's breath catches in her throat, her heart racing so fast it feels like it might just pop out of her chest.
For a moment, Elena's expression turns introspective, "To be honest, I've had feelings for you too," she says softly, "But I didn't want to make things awkward. You've always been so...resistant to me, I didn't think you'd be open to this."
Kara's eyes widen in surprise, "You have?" she whispers, her voice barely audible.
Elena nods, her gaze never leaving Kara's, "Since you moved back in, I've noticed how...cold you are. How hostile you seem towards me. I thought maybe I did something wrong, or you just didn't like me," she says, her voice filled with a hint of sadness.
Kara doesn't know how to reply to Elena's admission. Her mind is a tornado of emotions- surprise, excitement, and a touch of fear. But before she can say anything, Elena leans in, and their lips meet in a soft, tentative kiss.
It's like the moment before a storm breaks, a mix of anticipation and relief. Kara's eyes flutter shut, and she lets herself lean into the warmth of Elena's embrace.
Elena breaks it off and looks away, a hint of pink tinting her cheeks, "I'm sorry, I shouldn't have done that," she says, her voice barely a whisper.
But Kara can't let it end there. She won't. Her hand shoots out and grabs Elena's, pulling her back in for another kiss, this one more urgent and hungry.
Before going in for the kiss, Kara says, "I--I'm sorry if I hurt you in any way or if I was mean or rude or...I just didn't know how to deal with these feelings," her voice a mix of apology and desire.
Elena purrs against Kara's lips, her hand coming up to cup Kara's cheek, guiding her back in for another kiss. This time, there's no hesitation. Their mouths move together in a dance of passion and discovery, tongues brushing against each other, exploring and tasting.
Kara feels a shiver of excitement run down her spine, her body responding to Elena's touch like it's been waiting for this moment for a freaking lifetime.
Moans of passion fill the room, drowning out the distant hum of the TV, as their kiss grew more intense, more demanding. Kara's hands find their way under Elena's shirt, caressing the warm, soft skin of her back.
Elena's own hands had wander to Kara's waist, pulling her closer, her thumbs tracing the line of Kara's waistband, teasing the sensitive skin just above the fabric.
Tongues continue to dance together, exploring the depths of each other's mouths, as Kara's hands grew bolder. She slides them up Elena's back, feeling the firmness of her toned physique beneath the fabric. Elena's breath hitched, her own hands slipping down to grip Kara's hips, pulling their bodies into a tight embrace.
The scent of Elena's perfume filled the air, intoxicating Kara even further.
Their kisses grow more tender, more passionate. Elena's thumbs caressed Kara's cheeks, her eyes fluttering shut in pleasure. Kara could feel Elena's heart beating against her chest, a rapid rhythm that matched her own. They pulled away for a moment, panting, their eyes locking in a silent conversation of longing and need.
Kara heaves in lungs full of air, her heart racing as Elena's thumbs graze her cheekbones. She feels a mix of shock and exhilaration, her body humming with a newfound energy. Elena's eyes bore into hers, the warmth and affection unmistakable, and she leans in again, their lips pressing together in a passionate embrace that sends sparks flying all over the place!
Their kisses become deeper, more exploratory. The tip of Elena's tongue traces the outline of Kara's lips before delving into her mouth, and Kara responds with equal fervor, her hands gripping Elena's shoulders tightly. They're lost in a whirlwind of passion, their bodies moving together in a silent but horny symphony of desire.
"Mmmmmmmmmm. Kara," Elena murmurs, her voice a sultry whisper against Kara's skin. Kara's eyes are closed, savoring the sweet taste of Elena's lips, the gentle pressure of Elena's body against hers. Her hands slide up Elena's back, feeling the heat of her skin, the tension of her muscles.
"Mommy...I need you," Kara whispers into Elena's ear, the words slipping out before she can even think to stop them.
Elena's eyes widen for a moment before she smiles, the mischief in her gaze unmistakable.
Elena huskily growls, "And I need you too," her breath hot and sweet against Kara's skin. She stands, her skirt flaring around her legs as she pulls Kara up with her. Kara's knees wobble like jelly, but she follows, drawn to Elena like a magnet to metal.
They go to the main bedroom, the air thick with anticipation. Elena's hand is firm on the small of Kara's back, guiding her through the apartment as if navigating a complicated dance floor. The bedroom door clicks shut behind them, and Kara's heart feels like it's going to jump out of her chest. The room is dimly lit, the curtains drawn closed.
Elena deftly slips out of her skirt, revealing a matching lacy thong and bra set that perfectly frames her luscious curves.
Kara's eyes widen in awe, unable to believe what's happening. She feels a mix of excitement and anxiety, her hands trembling as they trace the waistband of her own sweatpants.
She struggles to get them off, her body trembling with excitement. Elena takes over, her fingers adeptly untying the drawstring and sliding the fabric down Kara's legs, revealing the panty she's been wearing all evening. The sight of Kara's bare skin sends a jolt of electricity through Elena, her eyes darkening with desire.
Elena bites her lower lip, "A blue panty, huh? Blue...is my favorite color, darlin'." She smirks, her eyes sparkling with mischief. She steps closer to Kara, their bodies almost touching. The room feels smaller, the air hotter, as the anticipation builds.
Kara sheepishly asks, "C--Can I unbutton your shirt a--and rem--remove it?" Her voice is shaky, her breaths shallow, but her eyes never leave Elena's.
Elena nods, her smile growing wider, and steps closer, allowing Kara to fumble with the buttons. As the fabric falls away, Kara gasps at the sight of Elena's full, round breasts, barely contained by her lacy purple bra.
Kara licks her lips and cups those tempting titties with trembling hands, feeling the weight and warmth of Elena's breasts. She leans in to kiss Elena's neck, her breath hot and erratic, as Elena's head tilts back in pleasure. The fabric of the bra gives way easily, and Kara's mouth waters as she sees Elena's hard nipples peeking out at her.
Elena whispers, her voice a seductive purr, "Why don't you...suck on them, hmm?"
The words hang in the air like a dare, sending a shock of excitement through Kara's body. She doesn't need to be told twice! She drops to her knees, her heart hammering in her chest, and takes 1 of those perfect, pink(ish) tips into her watering mouth.
Elena places her hand behind Kara's head and gently nudges her, a low moan escaping her lips as Kara eagerly laps at her nipple, her tongue swirling around the sensitive bud. The feeling is heavenly, sending waves of pleasure through Elena's body, making her knees go weak.
Kara continues sucking on Elena's nipple, her enthusiasm growing with every second that passes. Elena's hand in her hair is gentle but firm, guiding her, teaching her how to pleasure her.
Kara's tongue flicks and swirls, her teeth grazing the sensitive skin, eliciting gasps and moans from Elena's lips. She feels a powerful sense of satisfaction, knowing she's the one causing these sounds of pleasure.
"Aaaaaah, yeah, oh, y--yeah, suck on 'em, Kara, suck 'em like that!" Elena moans, her hand tightening in Kara's hair. Her breathing is heavy, and her body sways slightly as Kara eagerly follows her instructions. Kara's never felt so alive, so wanted. She switches to the other nipple, feeling it stiffen under her tongue, and Elena's hand moves from her head to her shoulder, gripping tightly.
Kara puckers her lips and sucks harder, her cheeks hollowing as she takes Elena's nipple into her mouth, feeling it grow even stiffer. She runs her hands up Elena's legs, feeling the smoothness of her thighs, and finally reaches the apex of her desires- the damp warmth of her panties.
"It's wetter than a swamp down here, Elena," Kara murmurs, her voice thick with desire as her hand hovered over the lacy barrier.
Elena chuckles, her eyes half-lidded with lust, "Then why don't you find out just how wet it is?" she replies, her voice a challenge.
Kara bites her lips in anticipation and quickly pulls down her stepmom's panties, revealing a glistening pussy that's clearly eager for her mouth. The sweet scent of arousal fills the air, making Kara's stomach flip-flop. She's never felt so nervous and turned on at the same time.
She runs her fingers through Elena's folds, feeling the slickness and heat of her desire.
Kara looks up at her beloved stepmother with a mix of trepidation and excitement. She's never done this before- not with someone so close. But Elena's eyes are filled with encouragement and lust, urging her forward. She leans in, her breath hot and heavy, and kisses Elena's vagina with a gentle peck, feeling the softness of her skin against her lips.
She kisses that sweet spot again and again, her heart racing as Elena's thighs part wider for her, giving her more access. The older woman's hand is still tangled in her stepdaughter's hair, but now it's guiding Kara's face closer to her center.
Kara's tongue darts out, licking the wetness from Elena's labia, the taste of her stepmother's desire sending a bolt of lightning straight to her own pussy.
Elena's moans grow louder, more demanding, and Kara's confidence skyrockets. She runs her tongue along the length of Elena's slit, savoring every inch, every shiver of pleasure that runs through her stepmother's body. Her hands move to hold Elena's thighs, steadying herself as she dives deeper into this newfound world of pleasure.
Kara's tongue swirls and darts, teasing Elena's clit, feeling it swell and pulse under her touch. She's like a student eagerly learning from the most tempting teacher, her eyes never leaving Elena's face, watching for every sign of what she's doing right.
Kara's eyes are wide with excitement and trepidation as she licks and kisses Elena's pussy, her shakiness only adding to the thrill of the moment. She's eager to learn, eager to pleasure Elena in ways she never thought possible, and with each moan and gasp that escapes Elena's lips, she feels a sense of achievement and progress.
Elena looks down and locks eyes with Kara, her pupils dilated with desire, "Keep going, keep...going," she whispers, her voice hoarse with passion.
Kara nods eagerly, her tongue delving deeper into Elena's warm, wet folds. She flicks and circles Elena's clit with the tip of her tongue, the sensation driving her stepmother wild.
"AAAAAAH! Oh, oh, oh...yeah, oh, oh...right there," Elena's breathy voice echoes through the room as Kara's tongue continues to dance around her clit. Kara feels a thrill of power, knowing that she's the one causing her stepmother such intense pleasure. She presses her tongue flat against Elena's clit, moving it in slow, broad strokes that make Elena's legs quiver.
Suddenly, Elena's body goes taut, her eyes squeeze shut, and she cries out, her juices spurting out like a geyser. Kara is caught off guard by the sudden wetness, her eyes widening in shock as she feels the warm liquid hit her cheeks and chin. But she doesn't pull away, instead, she continues to lick and suck, eager to taste every drop of Elena's sudden squirty climax.
The sound of Elena's squirting fills the room, a wet symphony of pleasure that seems to go on forever. Kara's eyes are glued to the sight of her stepmother's pussy contracting and releasing, her own body responding with a throb of need.
She's never seen anything so erotic, so powerful, and she knows she loves every second of it.
Some more clear juices drip out of Elena's pussy, and Kara eagerly laps them up, her tongue tracing the delicate lines of her stepmother's folds. The taste is unlike anything she's ever experienced, a heady mix of sweetness and musk that makes her mouth water for more.
Elena's grip on her stepdaughter's hair loosens, and she sags against the bed, her breath coming in ragged gasps.
Kara busily licks her fingers and exclaims, "Holy shit! You tasted...amazing," she says, her voice a mix of surprise and satisfaction.
Elena lets out a few choked laughs, her body still trembling with the aftershocks of her orgasm. She looks at Kara with a soft smile, her eyes gleaming with affection and lust, "You're a natural, Kara," she says, her voice still shaky, "Come here, let me taste you. It's only fair."
Kara nervously covers her own damp panties with her hand, feeling the heat of her own desire, "But...what if...what if I don't know how to?" she stammers, her cheeks reddening even more.
Elena's smile turns reassuring, "Don't know how to what, hmm?"
"Squirt...like you. You were the fucking water canon queen just now," Kara whispers, her voice filled with a mix of awe and nerves.
Elena casually chuckles, a sound that's music to Kara's ears. She feels like she's floating on a cloud of pure, unadulterated lust.
"Even if you don't gush, I'll still love it," Elena says, her voice a soothing balm to Kara's nerves. She gently coaxes Kara to lie back on the bed, her hands tracing a fiery path along Kara's thighs until they reach the damp fabric of her panties, "Let me show you," she whispers, her breath hot against Kara's ear.
Kara interrupts with a request. "Can...can I--"
Elena is gentle and encouraging, her thumbs tracing the edges of Kara's panties, making her squirm in anticipation, "What is it, sweetheart?" she whispers, her eyes sparkling with excitement.
Kara takes a deep breath and nods, her hands moving to help Elena pull the soaked fabric away from her body.
Kara struggles for the right words to formulate her request, her face flushing a deep crimson, "Can I sit on your face?" she blurts out, her voice a mix of embarrassment and hopefulness.
Elena throws her head back in laughter that is not derisive or mocking, but one that holds a hint of delight, "Of course, K!"
She murmurs, her voice thick with lust, "Whatever makes you feel good." She lies back on the bed, her legs spread wide in invitation. Kara's heart is racing like a wild horse, and she feels a strange mix of nervousness and excitement as she positions herself over Elena's face.
"Gently now, darling. Adjust your position a bit...more...yes, that's it," Elena instructs, her voice an instructive one as Kara carefully straddles her face, her legs trembling with anticipation. She feels the warmth of Elena's breath against her wet pussy, and it sends a few rapid shivers down her spine.
Elena begins to slowly kiss and lick Kara's inner thighs, her eyes never leaving Kara's as she teases and tantalizes, building the anticipation to a crescendo. Kara's legs are quivering like a leaf in the wind as she feels Elena's tongue finally touch her clit, sending a jolt of pure pleasure through her body.
Kara's eyes roll back in her head, and she gasps, "Oh FUCK, yes!" as Elena's tongue starts to circle her clit, her hands gripping the bed sheets tightly. The sensation is overwhelming, but Kara wants more. She needs more. She starts to rock her hips, guiding Elena's mouth to where she needs it most, her breath coming out in short, sharp gasps.
Elena's slurping sounds echo through the room as she devours Kara's pussy with an enthusiasm that leaves Kara's knees trembling. Kara can't help but let out a series of high-pitched moans, her body moving in a rhythm that matches Elena's tongue.
She's never felt anything like this before- the feeling of being wanted, desired, and cherished by someone who's supposed to be off-limits, yet here they are, exploring each other's bodies like it's the most natural thing in the world.
"Oh, mommy! Oh...oh, ah fuck! Yes, mommy! AAAAAAAAH! Lick me! AAAAH, OOOOOH!" Kara's voice is a symphony of pleasure, her hips rocking in perfect sync with Elena's eager and experienced tongue. She can feel her orgasm building, a delicious pressure that's about to burst like a dam.
Elena's mouth works wonders on Kara's clitoris, her tongue flicking and teasing, bringing Kara closer and closer to the edge of a powerful climax. Kara's moans grow louder, filling the room, as she rides Elena's face, her body arching with every touch. It's like nothing she's ever felt before; the taboo nature of it all just makes it so much more intense!
Elena laps up those salty and tangy juices, her tongue delving deeper into Kara's pussy with every pass. Kara's moans become more frantic as she feels the pressure building, her thighs tightening around Elena's head, "Mommy...I'm...I'm gonna come," she stammers, her voice breaking with every word.
Elena slurps and makes other erotic noises as she pleasures Kara, her own excitement building from the taste of her stepdaughter's arousal. Kara's hips begin to move faster, her breaths coming in short, sharp gasps as she approaches the peak of her climax. "Mommy, I'm so close... don't stop, please, don't stop," she begs, her voice desperate and needy.
Elena is only too glad to oblige, her tongue flicking and swirling around Kara's clit with renewed vigor. She feels Kara's body tighten, her muscles clenching around her mouth as she brings her to the edge of ecstasy. Kara's thighs are shaking, and her breath comes in quick pants as she tries to hold on for dear life.
She lets out a shaky scream-moan as she reaches her peak, her body wildly bucking against Elena's mouth. Elena drinks in her sweet nectar, relishing the feeling of Kara's orgasm as it rips through her body. The room is filled with the sounds of Kara's pleasure, her cries echoing off the walls as she rides the wave of her climax.
Kara pants like a marathon runner who's just reached the finish line, her body collapsing onto Elena's as she comes down from the high of her orgasm. The tremors of pleasure still ripple through her, making her legs wobble like Jell-O.
"That--that was sooo fuckin' awesome. I--I've never experienced anything like that, and I've been with a ton of chicks!" Kara gasps, her body still shaking with aftershocks.
Elena strokes Kara's sweat-ridden hair, "I've been with far more than you have, darling," she says with a knowing smirk, "But I'm so happy that I could give you something so intense...and meaningful."
Kara places her head on Elena's chest and snuggles into a nice and comfortable position, listening to the steady rhythm of her stepmother's heart beating beneath her ear, "I--I'm so sorry," she whispers, feeling a tad bit guilty.
"For what?"
"For being so rude and snide all the time," Kara murmurs into Elena's chest, her voice muffled but earnest. She feels Elena's chuckle vibrate through her.
"Oh, it's understandable, K. You came from one of them big cities where things are...different," Elena says, her voice gentle and soothing.
Kara can feel the warmth of her stepmother's body beneath her, and she nuzzles closer. The guilt is slowly fading away, replaced by a warm, content feeling she hasn't felt in a long time.
Kara decides to entertain her burning curiosity by asking, "How many women have you uh...slept with?" she looks up at Elena, her eyes searching for any trace of judgment or sarcasm, but only finding warmth and understanding.
Elena responds to Kara's question with a sultry chuckle, "Why don't we say I've had my fair share of many a lovely lady, darling," she teases, her eyes twinkling with mischief, "But you, Kara, you're special. You're not just any woman; you're my stepdaughter."
Kara nervously asks, "Does that mean you like me more than the others?" She's afraid to hear the answer, but she needs to know.
Elena looks at her with a gentle smile, her eyes filled with a warmth that melts away any remaining ice from their previous encounters.
Elena coos softly, her hand stroking Kara's hair, "You're not just any ol' gal to me, Kara. You're my family. And that makes this...complicated, but also incredibly intimate. I never expected to feel this way, but here we are."
She pauses, her thumb tracing Kara's cheek. "But you have nothing to worry about. You're special to me in ways I can't even explain."
Kara buries her head deeper in Elena's chest, feeling the warmth of her stepmother's skin against her cheek. She whispers, "I--I've never felt this way before."
"I have. Once, a while ago. She was about your age," Elena shares, her voice a gentle whisper as she plays with the loose strands of Kara's hair, "But it's different with you. You're not just a fling or a passing fancy. You're a part of me now."
"I uh...I love you, Elena."
A smile begins to form on Elena's lips, but she quickly suppresses it, not quite ready to let the depth of her feelings show. She plays it cool, teasingly saying, "Aww, you say that to all the gals you been with?"
Kara can feel Elena's heart flutter against her cheek, and she knows the older woman isn't as unfazed as she's pretending to be.
"No. OK, maybe, but I--I'm serious. I think I'm in lo--love," Kara stammers, her heart racing with the admission. She feels Elena's body stiffen beneath her, but her stepmother's hands don't stop their gentle stroking of her back.
"Well, then. I love you, too Kara Phelps. Didn't expect that, did ya?" Elena's voice is light and playful, but Kara can feel the gravity of the words resonating deep within her.
Kara exhales a sigh of relief and she cups Elena's cheek, turning upwards to look into her eyes, "Really?"
"Really."
Kara nuzzles into Elena's neck, her heart swelling with joy, "What do we do now?" she asks, her voice small and vulnerable.
"Put your head on my chest...and fall asleep to the sound of my beating heart," Elena murmurs, her voice soothing like a gentle lullaby.
Kara does as she's told, feeling the steady rhythm beneath her ear, lulling her into a peaceful state. The room is quiet, except for their intermittent breaths and the occasional bird chirping or car passing by.
Before she's about to fall asleep, Kara whispers, "Can I send a selfie of us to my close friend?" Her voice is hopeful, but tinged with uncertainty.
"Why?"
"I think she might be uh...open for a uh...threesome, if you're down for it," Kara says, her voice a mix of excitement and trepidation.
Elena's heart skips a beat, but she keeps her composure. She's always had a wild streak, but this was uncharted territory even for her.
Elena exclaims, "A threesome?!"
She laughs lightly, her voice a mix of surprise and intrigue, "Well, aren't you the adventurous one?"
Kara nods, her cheeks burning with excitement, "I--I mean, if it's OK with you, of course."
Elena considers it for a moment, her eyes flickering with curiosity, "Let's talk to her first, make sure she's on the same page," she says, her voice measured but definitely not dismissive.
Kara's heart skips a beat at the idea of sharing this moment with someone she trusts.
Kara leaves the warm and comforting embrace of Elena's chest to grab her phone from her room, her heart racing with excitement. She quickly types out a text to her friend, attaching a photo of the 2 of them, their bodies entwined and faces flushed with passion.
She can feel Elena's gaze on her as she hits send, her stomach flipping with anticipation.
The reply from Kara's friend is near instantaneous, the phone lighting up with a notification that pierces the quiet of the room. The message is simple but loaded with excitement: "OMG! You absolute slut, you fucking did it!"
Kara shows the text to Elena, her eyes naughty and gleaming with mischief.
Kara sticks her tongue out, the tip touching Elena's ear, teasing a shiver out of her, "Looks like she's interested," she whispers, her voice a siren's call to further indulgence.
Elena huskily whispers back, "Well, I suppose we could...entertain the idea," her voice is filled with both surprise and intrigue. She sits up, her eyes glinting with excitement as she reads the text over Kara's shoulder. The prospect of bringing someone else into their intimate bubble sends a thrill down her spine.
Kara types out a playful message, inviting her friend to come over and join them sometime this week, her fingers trembling slightly with excitement. She's never done anything like this before, but with Elena's reassuring presence, she feels bold enough to explore her boundaries.
Kara's friend replies with a string of emojis that scream enthusiasm and excitement. Kara's heart races as she reads the response, her mind swirling with the possibilities of what's to come (literally or otherwise).
She looks up at Elena with wide eyes, her cheeks flushed with anticipation, "Looks like she's in!" she says, her voice barely above a whisper.
Elena nods her head, satisfied. Then, she pulls Kara into a tight embrace, kissing her deeply, their tongues tangling together, "We'll take it slow," she whispers into Kara's ear, her breath hot and sweet, "But for now, let's just enjoy each other."
"Yes, m--mommy," Kara coos as she rests her head back down on Elena's chest, feeling the warmth and safety of her stepmother's embrace. They lay there for a few more moments, their bodies sticky with sweat and other passionately erotic juices, their hearts beating in sync with one another's.
In sweet time, they fall asleep, nestled and wrapped in each other's arms, their legs intertwined like ivy climbing a wall. Their breaths synchronize, rising and falling in a rhythm that mirrors their newfound closeness.
The quiet is occasionally pierced by the distant sounds of the night, but in their bubble of intimacy, they are safe and sound.
Story 6: Ellen Ripley x Sarah Connor | {breastfeeding, OOC}
Note: Woefully OOC, don't @ me about it. Breastfeeding and some oral.
It was Ellen Ripley's 1st time sucking another woman's breasts. The other woman was none other than Sarah Connor!
Ellen had some idea of basic nipple sucking technique- pucker up your lips and latch onto the boob? It wasn't too complex, right? But this was a whole different thing.
Sarah's tits were soft as silk in her mouth; they felt so good, she wanted to keep them there forever and ever. She tried to take more into her mouth but found that it hurt if she did. Her hand went to caress Sarah's breast while her tongue played with her stiffened nipple.
"Mmmm...god...you're so beautiful," Sarah moaned out loud, her head rolling from side to side on the pillow, "Suck me harder!"
Ellen complied without hesitation, taking the hard nub between her teeth. She could feel herself getting wetter by the second, and she didn't care who knew it. In fact, she was sure that Sarah could tell.
She sucked even harder now, licking all over Sarah's areola before flicking at it with the tip with her tongue.
Sarah threw back her head again, crying out loudly as Ellen suckled her breast. And then suddenly, Sarah pulled away.
"Oh my God!" Sarah gasped, "I'm going to come..."
Ellen didn't stop sucking her nipple, wanting to make it happen faster. She was rewarded when Sarah cried out again and began bucking her hips, pressing Ellen further onto her breast.
"God, yes! Ohhh..." Sarah's fingers tangled in Ellen's hair, pulling her closer still until her orgasm took hold and ripped through her.
"Yes! Yes! OOOOOH! I'm coming!"
When Sarah finally stopped shaking and Ellen let go of her breasts, Sarah sighed happily and lay back on the bed. "That was amazing," she said, "Now I wanna do yours."
"Me?" Ellen asked, surprised.
Sarah laughed, "Well, I mean you've got such gorgeous tits. And you deserve a few orgasms yourself, don't you?"
Ellen blushed furiously, "Um...yeah. I suppose so."
"Come here," Sarah ordered.
Ellen got on top of Sarah, and slowly moved Sarah's head towards her left boob. She spent several minutes kissing, fondling and gently sucking Ellen's nipples.
Then, Sarah got on her knees behind her and began kissing Ellen's neck. Suddenly, she pressed her mouth against Ellen's right tit. She took 1 of Ellen's stiff nipples into her mouth, swirling around it with her tongue.
"Ahhhhhh!" Ellen screamed. "More! Please!"
Sarah obliged, taking both of Ellen's boobs into her mouth and sucking hard. When Ellen came, she screamed louder.
Sarah sat back, panting, "You know what would feel really nice right now?" she asked.
"What?"
"Kissing."
They kissed for a few more minutes before Sarah gently pulled back.
"Your turn," Sarah told Ellen, smiling.
Ellen gladly complied and the smooching went on for a few more minutes, each woman's tongue dancing in the others' mouths.
"Oh my goodness. That was fuckin' awesome!" Sarah exclaimed after they broke the kiss.
"Didn't expect to like doing that so much," Ellen admitted, "But it feels so damn good."
"Yeah, it does," Sarah fully and wholeheartedly agreed.
For a while Ellen placed her head on Sarah's chest. They talked about their lives, comparing notes and recalling some of their earlier adventures.
"Goodnight, sweetie," Sarah murmured after a little while. "Sleep tight."
"Night!" Ellen sleepily responded.
The 2 women fell asleep in each others' arms, cuddled and holding hands.
It was just past midnight when Ellen woke up to the feeling of warm breath on her cheek. She opened her eyes to see Sarah lying next to her, watching her sleep. Ellen smiled, returning the gaze.
Sarah asked, "What are you doing up, sweetie? Bad dream?"
Ellen replied, "Nah, I was just thinking about y'know..."
Sarah climbed onto the bed, still naked and moved closer to Ellen, "About what?"
"Umm...the way those nipples felt in my mouth."
"And?" Sarah whispered, leaning close enough that her lips almost touched Ellen's ear.
Ellen shivered, "How about how hot it is having you t--touching me and and, um...me touching you?"
Sarah giggled, then leaned in and kissed Ellen lightly on the lips, "Why don't we try something new? What do you know about cunnilingus?"
Ellen blushed, "I've heard of it. I mean, I've seen a couple pornos where gals did that to gals."
Sarah smiled, "Well, I can tell you that I've never done it before. And I'm pretty sure I haven't ever had my pussy licked by anyone else. But I'm willing to give it a try if you wanna go down on me."
"God, yes!" Ellen breathed excitedly, "Please!"
"So, what position do you wanna use? You want me to sit on your face or do you want me to lie back while you go down in between my legs?"
Ellen looked around the room quickly before asking, "Uh...is there a couch?"
Sarah grinned and said, "Yes. Let's put some pillows on the floor so you don't scar your knees when you're kneeling down and licking my sweet pussy and clit."
How considerate.
Ellen got up and went to fetch a few pillows, placing them strategically near the recliner. She took 1 of Sarah's hands into hers, looking her in the eye as she said, "Thank you for doing this with me."
Sarah plainly replied, "And...thank you."
Ellen smiled and led Sarah to the couch, "Sit back, please," she instructed.
Sarah complied, laying on her back with her head propped up on a pillow. She watched as Ellen kneeled down, and then moved down slowly between her spread legs.
Ellen said in an uncertain tone, "Oh, so uh, what's the technique for this? Should I pucker up and latch on, just like those amazing boobs of yours?"
Sarah giggled, "No, no. Lick. All around, not just at the center. Start with the outer lips, lick them, then move inside. Oh, that's nice."
Ellen reached out and began stroking Sarah's inner thigh, "You're all wet already," she observed. "Must be really sensitive."
Sarah nodded, closing her eyes as Ellen's tongue glided over her clitoris. Sarah then held Ellen's head. Tightly.
"Here, lemme guide you a bit. Ohhhhhh, yeah...that's...the...spot--oh my..."
Ellen did as she was told, using her fingers to spread Sarah's labia apart and gently moving her tongue upwards.
"Mmmmm, yeah, that's it, baby. Keep doing that. Mmm, yes."
She kept licking Sarah's pussy, occasionally giving her clit a quick flick with her tongue. As Sarah's breathing grew heavier, Ellen knew she'd get her reward. Sarah's hips began thrusting upward off the couch, trying to push Ellen's head deeper into her crotch. Soon, she did.
"Ohhhh god, yes! Lick meeeeee!!!" Sarah cried out.
Ellen did just that, sucking harder on Sarah's clitoris, flicking her tongue across it and then plunging her tongue deep into Sarah's vagina.
"Oh fuck, yes!" Sarah cried out, her body tensing and shuddering as she climaxed, "Fuck, yes! Don't stop, don't stop! Fuckkkk! Ahhhhhhhrrrr!"
Ellen continued to lick and suck Sarah's pussy until she came down from her high. Sarah laid back, exhausted, her thighs trembling.
Ellen crawled up next to her and kissed her softly on the lips. "That was amazing," she whispered, "Thanks."
Sarah smiled and gave Ellen a big wet tongue kiss, "My pleasure. Now, I think we should do something to make YOU come."
Ellen's eyes widened, "Really?"
"Yes, I've been thinking about it since you mentioned it. I've always thought that it would be hot to finger you and suck your tits. Simultaneously."
Ellen blushed and said, "God, I can't believe you remembered that."
"I remember everything. And I've been thinking about it too."
"OK. How do you wanna do it?"
Sarah said, "Ellen, get on the couch. I'll kneel down. You hold my head and lemme suck those boobs while I finger you. Sound good?"
"Sounds great!"
Ellen got on the couch, straddling Sarah's head. She took 1 of Sarah's hands and placed it on her breast. She then took the other hand and guided it to her wet pussy.
Ellen immediately took Sarah's head and started motorboating her in between her breasts. Ellen moaned and laughed, "Oh, yes. That's it, baby. Suck my tits and finger me. Mmmm, yeah!"
Sarah began to slowly lick and suck Ellen's nipples, occasionally flicking her tongue across her hard nipple. She also began fingering Ellen's pussy, sliding a single index finger into her wet hole and then pulling it out.
Ellen cried out loudly when Sarah inserted 2 fingers, "Oooh, yeah. More! Yeah! Oh God, yes!"
Sarah began moving her fingers inside Ellen's moist pussy, fingering her with them.
"Oh, God, Sarah! Oh, shit! That's so good! More!" Ellen cried out while Sarah was still sucking her perky nipples.
Sarah slowed down, keeping her fingers buried inside Ellen's pussy. She kept sucking her tits, alternating between 1 and the other, while continuing to finger her.
Ellen was getting close, "Oh, Sarah! I'm gonna come soon! Oh, God! Soooo fuckin' close!"
Sarah continued sucking her breasts and moved her head slower, licking Ellen's areola in a clockwise direction.
"Oh, yes, Sarah! That's it! That's it! Oh my fucking god, I'm coming. Aaaahh, aaahh, aaahhh! Yes! Oh, yes!"
Ellen motorboated Sarah's head, pushing her head downward to keep her mouth on her tits. When she finally came down, she lay back, panting heavily, her chest heaving.
"Oh, my goodness. That was incredible!" Ellen said, sitting up and gently embracing Sarah.
"Yeah, it was. I hope you liked it."
"Like it? I loved it, Ms. Connor! I'd love to do that again some other time. If you want to, of course."
Sarah smiled and hugged Ms. Ripley tighter, "Yes, I definitely do."
Ellen giggled and said, "You know, if I wasn't so tired right now, I might have a different answer for you."
"Anyways, let's get back to bed. I wanna cuddle up with you and fall asleep in your warm, loving embrace."
Ellen smiled widely, "Yeah, I like the sound of that."
The 2 women fell asleep, holding each others' hands, whispering sweet nothings in their ears, and lightly kissing one another's lips.
Story 7: Isabella x Marisol | {generic/vanilla, nipple orgasm}
Note: An earlier work of mine. Sort of 1-night-stand/hookup thing going on here. Oral nipple stimulation resulting in orgasm(s). It's really possible, look it up.
Isabella and Marisol first met at a convention, spotting one another from across the room. They make eye contact and Isabella's heart skips a beat.
As the convention progressed, Isabella and Marisol kept stealing glances at each other, their attraction growing with each passing moment. Finally, as the day came to a close, Isabella mustered up the courage to approach Marisol.
"Hey, I couldn't help but notice you earlier today," Isabella said, flashing a smile, "I'm Isabella."
Isabella looked to be in her 20s. She had a mop of curly hair and a mixed complexion. Her build was fairly average.
Marisol's eyes lit up as she turned to face Isabella, "Hi, Isabella. I'm Marisol," she replied, her voice soft and sweet.
Marisol was of the same age. Her hair was straight and shiny. She appeared to be quite shorter than Isabella.
They struck up a conversation and hit it off immediately, talking about their interests and passions in life. Isabella couldn't help but take a few looks at Marisol's breasts and cleavage, feeling a tinge of desire shoot through her.
Marisol noticed Isabella's gaze and smirked, knowing exactly what was on her mind.
As they continued to talk, Marisol leaned in closer to Isabella, her lips grazing her ear, "Do you want to get out of here and continue this conversation somewhere more...private?"
What Isabella wanted more than anything was to take Marisol someplace private and wrap her mouth around those voluptuous tits! She just couldn't turn away the opportunity to get a taste of this gorgeous woman.
Isabella reluctantly pulled away from Marisol, not knowing how to respond to the wonderful proposition.
"Are you sure? I don't want to make you feel uncomfortable," she said.
"Trust me, I'm more than ready for this," Marisol said, "Let's go."
They quickly meandered their way out of the convention hall and into the parking lot. They didn't say a word as they made their way back to Marisol's hotel room, their feeling of excitement growing with each step.
Once they had finally reached Marisol's room, she offered Isabella a drink of some cranberry juice as they both sat down on the sofa.
"So what are you drinking tonight?" Isabella asked, as she took sips of the cranberry juice.
"Oh, that's 1 of my favorites, actually," Marisol said. "Glad you asked."
"I'm glad you like it," Isabella replied. "What made you decide to come to this convention?"
"Oh, you know," Marisol began, "I heard there would be some opportunities to network. I couldn't miss out on that. I love the beauty scene."
"You obviously love it, based off of your attire and those gorgeous ti--er, your well, y'know," Isabella said, struggling to hide yet another stare at Marisol's boobs.
"Oh, I get that a lot," she replied, giggling. "I get a lot of compliments on them. I love speaking about them. It's a part of my body and it just makes me feel so alive, you know?"
Isabella began to bite her lip as she once again felt herself getting turned on by her new friend's tits. The silence between them was finally broken by the sound of Marisol's phone ringing.
"I apologize," Marisol said, reaching for the phone, "I should probably take this. It's my coworker.
"Hello? Yes, it's the top shelf...behind the green cans. Got it? OK. Good. Yeah, thanks."
"No problem," she replied, hanging up the phone. She smiled at Isabella, "Sorry about that. Newbie at work."
"Oh, no," Isabella said, "I totally get that. Newbies, huh?"
"So, where were we?" Marisol asked. "Oh yeah, the beauty scene. My favorite thing about it is how accepting everyone is. You can be yourself around these people. They don't care about labels, what you look like, what you're wearing. They just care about what's in your heart."
"I suppose that's true," Isabella replied in a pensive tone. She furrowed her brow as she stared at her hands, trying to think of what the hell to say next.
Isabella was so deep in thought she didn't realize Marisol had moved a bit closer to her on the couch. She didn't realize it until Marisol placed a hand on her thigh.
Isabella looked up from her hands, shocked, to see Marisol smiling at her, her hand still on her thigh.
"Oh, umm, I--" Isabella stammered, but she was quickly interrupted by Marisol.
"Shhh," Marisol seductively shushed. "Tell me a bit more about yourself."
"What do y--y--you mean?" Isabella stammered, shivering. "Like, what else do you want to know?"
"You seem like you're an open book," Marisol said, her hand slowly inching its way up Isabella's thigh. "And I'm a fairly good reader."
Isabella moaned quietly as Marisol's hand reached the hem of her skirt. She'd never been so turned on in her life.
Marisol leaned in close, her lips right next to Isabella's ear.
"So tell me," she whispered, "If you could try something new, would you?"
A chill ran down Isabella's spine as Marisol softly traced her fingers along her inner thigh.
"I don't know," she said, her breathing becoming heavier, "I mean, I--I'm not sure what you mean. Something new like--like what?"
"Something exciting," Marisol said, inching her fingers up the inside of Isabella's thigh, "Something...erotic."
Isabella's eyes went wide as she looked into Marisol's dark and hungry eyes.
"O--oh," she shyly said, "Y--yes, I suppose I would."
"I thought so," Marisol said, smiling seductively, "But what would you say it's like?"
"What's like?" Isabella asked.
"Erotic," Marisol said, her fingers slowly moving up under the hem of Isabella's skirt. "What's 'erotic' to you? What do YOU think about?"
Isabella moaned quietly as she felt Marisol's long, delicate fingers trail their way up her thigh and beneath her skirt. Her skin tingled at Marisol's touch.
Isabella had never felt anyone touch her like this before, but she didn't want her new friend to stop. She had no idea where these feelings were coming from, but she didn't want to stop them.
"Oh," she moaned, "Ummm. Well, I suppose erotic would be..."
"Yes?" Marisol said, raising an eyebrow.
"I suppose it would be...boo..." Isabella said, her voice trailing off.
Marisol smiled.
"Yes?" she whispered. "What would it be?"
"B--boobs," Isabella whispered back, "I like boobs. I love 'em."
"I can tell," Marisol said, smiling knowingly. Her fingers were still moving slowly (but surely) beneath Isabella's skirt, moving up close to the juncture of her thighs.
"I l--like to suck on them," Isabella said, feeling herself growing wet, "And I like to lick th--them. I...I like them...a lot."
"Do you?" Marisol said, her fingers coming to rest on Isabella's inner thigh. Her smile was growing wider and wider, "Interesting."
"I know," Isabella said, blushing, her face growing warmer and warmer as she spoke. "I know. I'm weird."
"Not weird," Marisol said, in a reassuring manner, "Just...saying. It's very...kinky."
"R--really?" Isabella said, her eyes wide with an unsure look. "I mean, I'm not weird? You think it's good? Like--"
"Oh, yes," Marisol said, smiling, "I think it's good. In fact, I'd go so far as to say..."
Her words trailed off. Her fingers had slid up under Isabella's skirt, between her legs. Isabella moaned.
"And I like...I like..." Isabella said, taking a deep breath. "I like...boobs and I like...I like..."
"Yes?" Marisol gently said.
"I like...to have them on my face!" Isabella confessed, "I love when they're on my face like...like pillows, or whatever! I love when they're right in my face and I can smell them and lick them and suck on them..."
Marisol smirked and nodded.
"Oh," she said, and then she leaned in closer to Isabella, "I think I can help you there."
She leaned in so that her lips were almost touching Isabella's ear.
Within moments, Marisol was jumping up and wrapping her arms around Isabella's shoulders, pulling her in close for a deep and passionate kiss.
As the 2 women kissed, Marisol felt Isabella's hands moving up to her bra and attempting to unclasp it. As they continued to kiss, Marisol felt a hot rush of pleasure all over her body at the thought of Isabella taking her bra off, and then she felt Isabella's hands at her back, finally unhooking her bra.
Marisol broke the kiss for just a moment, catching Isabella's eye. She smiled at her and then she boldly said, "Take it off."
Isabella looked at her, eyes wide. She stared at Marisol for a long time, as if waiting to see if Marisol was joking or not. Isabella pulled the bra away from Marisol's body and then tossed it away to 1 side of the room.
"You're fine with this?" Isabella sheepishly asked, looking up at Marisol who was still straddling her.
"I'm more than fine with it," Marisol replied, smiling.
As the 2 of them continued to kiss and to hold each other, Marisol slowly began to grind herself against Isabella. She moaned slightly as she did so, feeling Isabella's hands on her waist.
She felt Isabella's fingertips at the hem of her skirt, and then Marisol felt those fingertips beginning to slide beneath the skirt and brush against her panties.
Isabella pulled back from the kiss and looked up at Marisol. Her hands were still on Marisol's waist, and now they were sliding further up. Marisol pulled herself away from Isabella and slid her own panties off.
"Now I can suck on those tits?" Isabella shyly asked, as she leaned in closer to Marisol.
She brushed her lips against Marisol's body, teasing her with the slightest of touches before she leaned in and sucked 1 of Marisol's nipples into her mouth.
Marisol gasped as she felt the warmth and wetness of Isabella's mouth on her nipple. She ran her fingers through Isabella's hair, feeling the softness of it as she kissed and suckled at her breasts.
Marisol held Isabella's head against her chest, running her hands through Isabella's curly hair as she kissed and sucked on her nipples.
Isabella sucked harder on Marisol's nipple, until Marisol was arching her back in pleasure. Marisol could feel herself getting close to orgasm, and shivered as she felt Isabella's mouth move to her other breast.
Isabella began to run her tongue along the underside of Marisol's breast, inching her closer to orgasm. Marisol gasped as she felt Isabella's tongue touch her nipple. She ran her hands through Isabella's hair, holding her tight as the pleasure exploded within her.
Isabella suckled harder on Marisol's nipples, licking every inch of those beautiful breasts!
"Keep going...oooooh! Yeah!" Marisol cried out, in between moans.
Isabella gleefully complied and continued to suck and lick at Marisol's breasts, bringing her friend closer and closer to orgasm. Marisol could feel herself getting hotter and hotter, and she gasped as she was about to come. So close...
"Isabella! Oh, Izzy, dear! I'm coming! Aaaaah--!"
Isabella quickly ramped-up her sucking on Marisol's nipples. Marisol held her friend tight and close- tighter and closer than ever. Until finally, with a loud moan, Marisol came hard.
"Awwwwww! That was so freakin' good, Izzy!" Marisol said, as put her friend's head into her chest. Isabella looked up, smiled and kissed Marisol's perky, spit-drenched nipples.
"I know it was, Marisol," Isabella said, still straddled by her friend. Marisol looked down at Isabella and smiled, while playing with her own tits.
"I'm so glad I met you, Izzy," Marisol said, as she kissed Isabella's forehead.
"And I'm glad I met you, Marisol," Isabella replied, as she hugged her new special friend close.
The duo stared into each other's eyes, content in each other's company. They enjoyed the moment, enjoying the sensations they were feeling.
Isabella asked, "Round 2?"
"Aw hell yeah!" replied Marisol.
Isabella and Marisol switched places on the couch, this time with Isabella on top, straddling Marisol.
Marisol grinned as she saw the determined look in Isabella's eyes. She knew her buddy was gonna suck on her tits just as passionately as she had done before.
Marisol leaned forward and gently sucked on Isabella's nipples, eliciting a moan from her. She teased them lightly with her tongue before taking them fully into her mouth.
Isabella tightly grasped her friend's straight hair and hummed as she twisted her head around, up and down, resulting in much more oral stimulation of the nipples
Isabella moaned and caressed Marisol's shoulders as she rode out the orgasm that was slowly building inside.
"Aaaah! Mari! Ahhh! Suck harder! Oh God, that feels so good! Keep sucking! Don't stop for nothing! AAAAHHHH!"
As Isabella was on the verge of coming, Marisol intensified the suckling on Isabella's nipples, which sent her ever closer to orgasm.
"Mari! Ahhh! Oh my god! YES! Suck harder, mi corazon (ES: my heart)! That feels so freakin' good! Oh, mierda (ES: shit)!"
Marisol's tongue then glided over to the next boob, still awaiting that oral love and stimulation.
Just as before, her tongue flicked over the nipple and created an intense sensation.
Isabella moaned and grabbed onto Marisol's hair, holding on for dear life.
"Ahhh! Suck harder, Mari! Oh my god, that feels soooooooo good!"
Marisol's tongue danced around the areola, soaking it in warm saliva. She then took the nipple into her mouth and sucked hard, earning herself a long and deep moan from Isabella.
She then switched breasts and repeated the same amazing process.
After a few more minutes of passionate sucking and licking, Isabella felt her orgasm approaching.
"Ooooh! Mari! Ahhh! I'm coming! Keep sucking!"
Marisol complied, and continued to suck on Isabella's nipples till she came, releasing a series of moans and gasps.
After Isabella's orgasm subsided, they both sat there panting and sweating, still entangled in each other's arms.
Isabella grinned, "Damn, Mari. You're really...uh, good at that."
Marisol grinned back, "I know, I just...had to return the favor, y'know?"
The duo made out for a while, tongues dancing in each other mouths, before they decided to sit next to each other and cuddle up on the sofa.
After a few minutes of comfortable cuddling, Isabella spoke up.
"Mari, I have to ask you something."
Marisol turned to her new friend and raised an eyebrow.
"What's the chance that both of us came from having our nipples sucked?"
Silence.
Marisol's face immediately glowed up with a smile, "WOW! I never really thought of that! Yeah, what are the odds? Like a 1000 or a 100,000 in 1 chance?"
"I'd say it's about a 50,000 in 1 chance."
"Y'know, I think that's pretty close! So, what do you wanna do now?"
Marisol replied, "Eh, maybe make out or go to sleep? Or, you wanna go back to the convention? I heard there's some kind of afterparty or something. Invite only. I can get us both in. How about it?"
Isabella grinned earnestly, "Yeah, sounds good. Let's go!"
Story 8: Want & Need | {step stuff, D/s dynamics} --proofread
Note: stepmother x stepdaughter, with light D/s dynamics.
198X
In a small suburban town, the sun dips below the horizon, casting long, dancing shadows across the quiet streets. The town in question is nestled in the embrace of the surrounding hills and bathed in an orange glow, a serene picture of Americana.
There is a small and rather unassuming (one might be inclined to say "demure") house at the end of the long stretch of road, its white paint faded by years of sun and rain. The house stands on a slight rise, its windows reflecting the dying light. The front yard is neat. A rust-red sedan is parked out front.
Inside, the house is quiet, save for the ticking of a clock in the hallway. The living room is filled with the warm glow of a lamp, its shade casting intricate patterns on the worn but clean carpet. In the armchair by the window, a woman in her 40s, her hair shiny black, sits with a book open on her lap.
Her eyes, behind thick-rimmed glasses, keenly and intently scan the pages, but her mind seems to be elsewhere. The book, a well-worn copy of "To Kill A Mockingbird," was (and still is) a particular favorite of hers.
Suddenly, the front door creaks open, breaking the silence. The woman looks up, her green eyes reflecting a mix of warmth and concern.
A young woman in her 20s, her hair a wild mane of curls, rushes in, her cheeks flushed with excitement.
She pants for breath before opening her mouth, "Mom, you won't believe what happened today!" she exclaimed, her green eyes sparkling with exhilaration.
The mother (well, stepmother, really) looks up, a small smile on her lips, "Well, what is it, Wanda?"
Wanda, the stepdaughter, pulls out a worn, leather-bound journal from her loose backpack, its pages yellowed with age, "I found this hidden in the old attic at the library. It's a diary from YEARS AGO! And it's filled with the most incredible stories about this town."
The older woman, Linda, her curiosity piqued, puts down her book and adjusts her glasses, "Alright, let's have a look, shall we?" She takes the journal from her stepdaughter, their fingers brushing, and for a moment, time seems to slow.
Linda feels a spark, a jolt that is neither unpleasant nor unfamiliar. She looks up at Wanda, catching her breath.
Wanda, too, pauses, her eyes meeting Linda's, a flicker of something unreadable passing between them.
Linda awkwardly clears her throat, breaking the moment. She proceeds to carefully open the journal, her voice steady despite the unexpected flutter in her stomach, "Let's see what we have here..."
Wanda stands still for a moment, her eyes still lingering on Linda, before she finally shakes her head slightly, as if to clear it, and begins to carefully watch as Linda slowly turns the delicate pages.
The scent of aged paper and faded ink fills the room as Linda reads the first entry to herself, lips moving ever so slightly.
Wanda cranes her neck forward and inquires, "So, what'd you think?"
Linda shakes her head and smirks, "It's a fake, sweetie."
Wanda's jaw hangs open in sheer disbelief, "Wha--? But, I found it in the old part of the library, tucked away in a box with other old stuff. It was dusty, but it looked real!" Wanda protests, her brows furrowing.
"Lemme see that," she says, reaching out to snatch the journal from Linda.
Linda hands it over, her smirk fading as she watches her stepdaughter flip through the pages, her eyes scanning the entries.
Linda repeats, "I'm telling you, it's not real, sweetie. The handwriting is too uniform, the ink too dark. It's been written recently."
Wanda looks up from the journal, her eyes filled with sadness, "I don't...believe it. Who--who'd go through all that trouble?"
The stepmom plainly shrugs, "Don't know. Could be someone with way too much time on their hands. You know how it is here."
"Hmmm. Well, there goes any excitement I was hoping to find."
Linda puts her hand on Wanda's tense shoulder and comforts her with a few sweet words, "Hey, hey, c'mon. Cheer up, sweetie. It's not the end of the world just because something isn't as it seems, right?"
Wanda blandly says, "Hmm, I guess you're right, mom. So uh...how was your day?"
Linda answers, "It's all going good, sweetie. However I might have to work a little longer at the video store tonight. Will you be able to manage fine without me?"
Wanda frowns, "Of course I will! I'm 22, sheesh. It's like you expect me to screw shit up or--"
Linda moues and gives her stepdaughter an affectionate look, "Aww, no, it's nothing like that. It's just that I--"
"Yes?"
"I care about you...a lot. Even if you're not directly related to me my blood or anything like that."
Wanda's face softens, and she smiles, "I know, mom. I care about you too. A lot." She pauses, then playfully nudges Linda, "But you don't have to worry about me. I can handle myself. Besides, I've got big plans tonight."
Linda raises an eyebrow, "Oh, really? And what might those be?"
Wanda grins, her eyes twinkling with mischief, "I was thinking of finally trying out that new recipe we saw on TV last week. You know, the one with the fancy French name?"
Linda chuckles, "Crme Brle?"
Wanda grins and eagerly nods her head, "Mm-hmm. That one. How--how do you pronounce it so effortlessly, mom?"
Linda lifts her chin, "I know quite a lot, my dear."
Wanda feels a tingling sensation in her nether regions upon hearing this. She awkwardly winces and cracks a goofy smile at her stepmom.
Linda, noticing Wanda's sudden discomfort, raises an eyebrow, "Are you alright, sweetie? You look a bit flushed."
Wanda waves her hand dismissively, "Oh, yeah, I'm fine. Just...just got a little warm all of a sudden." She fans herself dramatically, trying to hide her blush.
Linda smiles, "Well, don't overdo it with that recipe. Remember, you're not trying to set the kitchen on fire tonight, OK?"
Wanda laughs, "Don't worry, mom. I'll have it under control. You'll see, it'll be perfect!"
"Alright, alright. If you say so. Save some for your stepmom, OK?"
Wanda nods and goes along on her merry way. She sashays to her room, singing some or the other song off-tune. Wanda's voice echoes down the hall, a mixture of off-key notes and enthusiasm.
In her room, Wanda throws herself on her single bed and looks up at the ceiling. Her room is quite small, but not so much so that she feels like she's being crushed.
Her mind races, thoughts tumbling over each other like clothes in a dryer. She can't shake off the feeling that something's off, not just with that fake journal, but with her too. She's been feeling strange lately, her body responding to Linda in unusual ways.
She sighs, closing her eyes, trying to push the thoughts away. She needs to focus on her recipe, not her confusing feelings.
She sits up, swinging her legs off the bed, and walks over to her desk. She pulls out her cookbook, flipping through the pages until she finds the recipe she's been dreaming of making.
She mumbles the ingredients and measurements to herself, making note of which cups to use and which to stay away from- Linda does like her kitchen organized, and well-kept, nay an item out of place.
Wanda nods, her resolve strengthening. She's determined to make this dish perfect, not just for Linda, but also to distract herself from her recent feelings.
Some time later...
Linda takes off for work at the video store after saying goodbye to her beloved stepdaughter. She takes her car, leaving Wanda all alone at home. After a short siesta, Wanda drags herself to the kitchen and starts with basic prep.
She lays out everything as best as she can. She double- and triple-checks everything. She begins by measuring out the sugar, her hands steady despite the whirlwind of thoughts in her mind. She hums a tune, trying to keep her spirits up.
After a few traffic signals, Linda is at her place of work. Money's been tight as of late, so she's agreed to work a little extra to make ends meet. She's been at the local video store for years, and even though it's seen better days, she takes pride in her job.
The bell above the door chimes as she enters, signaling her arrival to the store. She sets down her leather purse behind the counter and turns on the neon "OPEN" sign, casting a warm glow onto the quiet street outside.
Back at home, Wanda is in full cooking mode. She's managed to keep her mind off her confusing feelings by focusing on the task at hand. She's whisking the egg yolks and sugar together, her arm moving in steady, rhythmic motions.
Linda stands up straight and keeps a watchful eye on any approaching customers. When needed, she's more than happy to help someone find something or give them good recommendations.
Meanwhile, back at home, Wanda is carefully separating the eggs, her tongue sticking out slightly in concentration. She hums a tuneless melody, her mind momentarily at ease. She places the egg whites into a clean bowl, ready for the next step.
Fast forward...
It's now 12:30 AM. Linda hands over the proverbial reins to her fellow employee, grabs her purse, gets in her car, and drives back to her dwelling place.
Thankfully, Wanda didn't burn the house down, but the Crme Brle does leave a lot to be desired. Then again, it's literally her first ever attempt, so she can't be faulted for it.
Linda enters the house, the familiar creak of the door announcing her arrival. She hangs her well-worn coat on the rack, her eyes immediately drawn to the kitchen. The smell of burnt sugar hangs heavy in the air, a stark contrast to the sweet aroma she had hoped for.
"Wanda?" she calls out, her voice echoing in the quiet house. There's no response, but she can hear the soft hum of the refrigerator. She steps into the kitchen, her eyes scanning the countertops until they land on the dish.
The Crme Brle sits there. Wanda looks at it with an empty stare, her chin on her open palms. She has a sad, almost droopy look written all over her.
Linda approaches Wanda, her heels clicking softly on the tiled floor. She looks at the dish, then at Wanda, her expression softening, "Hey, sweetheart," she says, her voice gentle, "It's OK, it's just a dessert. It's not the end of the world."
Wanda looks up at her, her eyes welling up with unshed tears, "I wanted it to be perfect," she admits, her voice wobbling, "I wanted to make something nice for you."
Linda smiles warmly and pulls out a chair, sitting down next to Wanda. "Wanda, honey, you don't have to do that."
Wanda counters, "BUT I DO! You work so hard to provide for us and keep this damn roof over our heads. You've sacrificed SO, SO much at that video store"
"You've sacrificed so much, mom," Wanda continues, her voice thick with emotion, "I just wanted to do something nice for you, to show you how much I appreciate everything you do."
Linda's heart swells with affection for her stepdaughter. She reaches out, gently placing her hand over Wanda's, "Wanda, my love, I appreciate the thought more than you know. But please, don't put so much pressure on yourself. It's not about the dessert, it's about the love and effort you put into it."
Wanda looks down at their hands, Linda's thumb tracing soothing circles around and around. Wanda's eyes flicker up to meet Linda's, her gaze filled with gratitude and a glimmer of understanding, "You're right, mom," she says, her voice steadying.
Linda smiles, giving Wanda's hand a gentle squeeze, "Of course I am, sweetie."
Wanda manages a small smile, her eyes shining with anticipation, "What do we do now?"
"What do you wanna do, sweetie?"
"You're not tired?"
Linda chuckles and admits, "I had 1 too many cups of coffee, haha. Is there something you want to do?"
Wanda gulps and her lips quiver slightly, "I um...wanted to talk to you about something, actually."
Linda's eyes soften with concern, and she gives Wanda's hand another squeeze. "Of course, sweetie. What's on your mind?" she turns her body towards Wanda, giving her undivided attention.
Wanda takes a deep breath, her eyes darting nervously between Linda and the table, "It's...it's about us, actually. I don't know if we've talked about it before, but I've been thinking a lot lately, and I--I feel things." She pauses, searching Linda's face for a reaction.
Linda's expression remains gentle, "What kind of things are you feeling?"
Wanda shakily sighs, "I have these...I dunno what you call 'em, fantasies, dreams, I guess?"
"Um...what kind of fantasies? You know you can tell me anything and I won't judge you, I promise."
Wanda takes that promise to heart, but she hesitates, her cheeks flushing a soft pink, "They're...they're about you, mom. About us..."
She looks down at their entwined hands, "I've been having these feelings, these thoughts, and I don't know what to make of them. I don't know if it's...normal."
Linda's heart skips a beat, her mind racing with a mix of surprise, concern, and a spark of something she can't quite identify (yet). She keeps her voice steady and calm, "Wanda, look at me."
Wanda obeys her stepmother's request and looks directly into her eyes, trying to gauge what Linda's expression is. She sees a mix of emotions in Linda's eyes, but they're not the rejection or disgust she had feared.
Instead, Linda's gaze is filled with a soft understanding, a warmth that makes Wanda's heart flutter.
"You can tell me, sweetie," Linda encourages, her voice barely above a whisper, "I'm here to listen, not to judge, OK?"
Wanda takes a deep breath, her fingers tightening around Linda's hand. "I...I think I have feelings for you, mom. More than just...more than just you know. Sometimes I even uh...try on your clothes when you're not around."
Linda clicks her tongue softly, her grip on Wanda's hand tightens, not in anger or discomfort, but in a silent reassurance.
She takes a moment, processing Wanda's confession, her own thoughts swirling in her mind, "Wanda," she starts, her voice steady and calm, "I appreciate you being honest with me. I want you to know that your feelings, whatever they may be, are valid and important to me."
Wanda looks up at her, surprise etched on her face, "You...you're not mad!?"
Linda shakes her head, "No, sweetie, I'm not mad."
She pauses for a moment before proceeding, "As a matter of fact, I've been harboring similar sentiments myself," Linda admits, her voice barely audible.
She sees the shock in Wanda's eyes and quickly adds, "But Wanda, we need to tread carefully here. Our relationship is complex, and we need to navigate this together, with patience and understanding."
Wanda nods, her eyes wide with surprise and a glimmer of hope, "I understand, mom. I just...I needed to get this off my chest. I didn't know how you'd react."
Linda smiles softly, "And I'm glad you felt comfortable enough to tell me."
Wanda sheepishly queries, "So, like, what do we do now that that's out of the way?"
Linda softly smiles, "What do YOU want to do now, sweetie?" the sultriness in her voice is obvious.
Wanda detects it, gasps, and pulls back slightly. Her eyes widen in realization, her cheeks flushing an even deeper shade of pink. She looks away, unable to hold Linda's gaze, "I--I don't know what to say, mom. This is all so new and unexpected."
Linda reaches out, gently cupping Wanda's cheek, guiding her face back towards hers. "It's OK, sweetie. We don't have to rush into anything. Let's just take this slow, alright? We can talk, we can explore, we can figure this out together."
Wanda nods, her eyes meeting Linda's again, a mix of nervousness and anticipation.
"Let's start by talking, really talking," Linda suggests, her thumb gently caressing Wanda's cheek, "We've always been open with each other, and I think that's what's going to help us navigate this new terrain."
Wanda nods in agreement, her breath hitching slightly at the soft touch. "OK, mom. What do you want to talk about?"
Linda thinks for a moment before responding, "Let's start with what you've been feeling. When did these feelings first start, and what exactly are the contents of these fantasies, if you don't mind me asking, that is."
Wanda takes a deep breath, gathering her jumbled thoughts. She feels a damp sensation near her pussy, realizing she's slowly being aroused and turned on by this interaction.
"Hey, it's OK, sweetie," Linda soothes, her voice warm and reassuring, "It's a big thing you're processing, and it's OK to feel overwhelmed."
Wanda nods, taking a moment to compose herself, "I--I think these feelings started a while back, maybe a year or so. I didn't understand them at first. I mean, I've always loved you as a mother figure, and I've always been comfortable with you, with us being close. But then, things started to...change. I'd catch myself looking at you differently, thinking about you in ways that were...different, I guess? It scared me at first, because I didn't know what it all meant."
Linda listens intently, her thumb still gently caressing Wanda's cheek. "It's OK, sweetie. It's normal to feel uncertain, especially when it comes to feelings like these. They can be confusing, even for adults."
Wanda nods and goes on, "Um...as for what I err...fantasize about, well--I guess I imagine us kissing, like not a peck on the cheek, but more like a full-tongue French kinda kiss." Her heart pounds in her chest as she reveals her deepest desires.
Linda, noticing her stepdaughter's discomfort, gently cups her other cheek, holding her gaze.
"That's quite alright, sweetie," Linda reassures, her voice soft and soothing, "I want you to feel completely at ease when sharing these thoughts with me. It's important that we're open and honest with each other."
Wanda takes a deep breath, her eyes flickering between Linda's gaze and her lips, "Well, I also imagine us...touching each other. Not just kisses, but...other things."
Linda suggestively prods, "What kinds of...other things?"
Wanda gulps deeply, her lips trembling. Without warning, she leans forward and plants a kiss on her stepmom's lips.
Linda's eyes widen slightly in surprise, but she doesn't pull back. Instead, she lets Wanda lead, her body tense but receptive. Wanda's lips are soft and hesitant at first, her kiss inexperienced yet filled with a raw, untamed passion. Linda can taste the nervousness on her lips, the slight tremble betraying Wanda's uncertainty.
After a moment, Linda responds, her lips moving against Wanda's with a careful tenderness. She doesn't deepen the kiss, instead, she matches Wanda's pace, her hands still cupping Wanda's face, her thumbs gently caressing her cheeks.
When they pull apart, Wanda is as red as a tomato. Linda can taste a little sugar on her own lips, she smirks and remarks, "Mmm, maybe ease up on the sugar next time, hmm?"
Wanda nervously chuckles and begs for another kiss, this time with tongue and a bit of saliva, because why not, eh?
Linda's eyes spark with a playful glint, "Well, well, aren't we eager? Alright, sweetie, but let's make this a lesson, OK?"
Wanda, with a mix of curiosity and anticipation, nods her head up and down. Linda leans in, her lips hovering over Wanda's, her breath warm and tantalizing.
She starts with a soft, closed-mouth kiss, her lips barely pressing against Wanda's. She pulls back slightly, then repeats the action, increasing the pressure ever so slightly each time.
"Feel the difference, sweetie?" Linda whispers, her lips brushing against her stepdaughter's anticipating lips.
Wanda nods, her breath hitching as she feels the change in pressure. Linda smiles softly, her eyes never leaving Wanda's, not even for a single moment.
"Now, let's add a little tongue," Linda murmurs, her tongue lightly tracing Wanda's lower lip, requesting entry. Wanda gasps softly, her lips parting slightly, inviting Linda in. Linda takes her time, exploring Wanda's mouth with slow, languid strokes of her tongue, teaching her the dance of a French kiss.
Wanda's eyes flutter closed, her body leaning into Linda's, her hands reaching up to grip Linda's shoulders for support. Linda's hands leave Wanda's face and make their way towards Wanda's waist, her fingers gently splayed on the small of her back.
She yanks Wanda closer, their bodies pressing against each other, the warmth of their embrace palpable. Linda's touch is tender yet firm, guiding Wanda's responses, teaching her the rhythm of their kiss.
Wanda's breath hitches as she feels Linda's hands on her back, her body arching slightly, pressing closer. Linda's lips curve into a smile against Wanda's, her tongue continuing its slow, sensual dance. She can feel Wanda's heart pounding against her chest, her breath coming in short gasps.
Linda pulls back slightly, her eyes searching Wanda's, "You're doing wonderfully, sweetie," she whispers, her voice husky with desire.
She gives Wanda a moment to catch her breath, her thumb brushing away the moisture of their kiss from Wanda's lips, "How's that lesson so far?"
Wanda, still flushed and breathless, manages a small smile, "It's...it's good," she admits, her voice barely above a whisper, "Really fu--fucking good!"
Linda's smile widens, and she leans in again, this time she instructs, "Now, why don't you try? Open your mouth like this."
Wanda takes a deep breath, her eyes locked onto Linda's inviting lips. She parts her own lips, mimicking Linda's earlier actions. Linda responds by gently pressing her lips against Wanda's, encouraging her to continue.
Wanda tentatively pushes her tongue out, touching Linda's bottom lip. Linda smiles and parts her lips, allowing Wanda's tongue to slip inside. Wanda's heart races as she explores Linda's mouth, her tongue tentatively touching Linda's, pulling back slightly at the unfamiliar sensation.
Linda, sensing her hesitation, pulls back and whispers, "It's OK, sweetie. Take your time. It can be quite overwhelming at first, can't it? Don't be afraid, it's just tongue. It's not an eel or a snake out to bite you."
She chuckles softly, her eyes twinkling with amusement, "Here, let me help you," she says, her voice a warm, soothing balm. She leans in, her tongue gently touching Wanda's, a soft, exploratory dance. Wanda's eyes flutter closed, her body relaxing into the embrace.
Linda guides her, their tongues slowly learning each other's rhythm, their breaths syncing in a dance as old (and sensual) as time. Wanda's hands, once gripping Linda's shoulders, now find their way to her midriff, her fingers digging into the fabric of her stepmother's clothing.
Linda's hands, never leaving Wanda's waist, yank them tighter, pulling the stepdaughter EVEN closer.
Wanda's hands begin to move, her fingers tentatively exploring Linda's body. She starts at her stomach, her hands slowly inching up, feeling the curves and dips of Linda's torso. Linda's breath hitched as Wanda's hands reached her boobs.
Linda pulls back and sharply exhales, a flushed and horny look on her face. Wanda, still wildly turned on, reaches forward and kneads Linda's boobs through the clothes she has on.
Linda's breath hitches again, her eyes closing briefly at the contact, "WANDA!" she breathes out, a warning and an encouragement all in 1.
Wanda's eyes meet Linda's, filled with a mix of desire and apprehension. Linda reaches up, her hand covering Wanda's, guiding her movements. "It's OK, sweetie," she murmurs, "We'll go as slow as you want. But if you keep touching me like that, I might not be able to control myself."
Wanda bites her lower lip, a blush spreading across her cheeks, "I wanna see you like that, mommy."
In between moans, Linda asks, "Like...like what, sw--sweetie?"
Wanda leans closer and whispers, "When you're outta control. I need you, Linda. Not--not just as my stepmom, but as something, no, someone more. I need you, Linda. I need you as a woman, as a lover. I need you, Linda. I need you to show me everything, to teach me everything. I need you to take control, to take me, to MAKE me yours."
Linda's eyes widen at Wanda's hungry request, a mix of surprise and desire swirling in their depths. She takes a moment, her breath coming in short gasps, her heart pounding in her chest.
Then, with a growl, she grabs Wanda's face, pulling her into a fierce, open-mouth kiss. Linda's suppressed passion ignites like a wildfire, her lips crashing against Wanda's with an intensity that steals her breath away. Wanda gasps into the kiss, her body arching into Linda's, eager to match the sudden ferocity.
Linda's hands, no longer gentle, roam Wanda's body with a possessive hunger, leaving trails of sexual fire in their wake.
Linda's tongue demands entry, and Wanda grants it, their tongues tangling in a dance that's no longer exploratory but assertive, eager. Linda's hands find the hem of Wanda's t-shirt, and with a swift motion, she pulls it over Wanda, revealing a simple green bra.
Linda breaks the kiss, her eyes roaming over Wanda's now-bared skin. She takes a moment to appreciate the sight before her, her gaze lingering on the swell of Wanda's breasts, the curve of her waist, and the expanse of her stomach. Wanda squirms under the scrutiny, her cheeks flushing a deeper shade of red.
Linda reaches out, her fingers tracing the lace edge of Wanda's bra, her touch feather-light. Wanda's breath hitches, her nipples hardening at the contact. Linda's lips curve into a satisfied smile, her eyes meeting Wanda's.
"Such an amazing body..."
Wanda returns the compliment with an apprehensive query, "I...wanna see...yours?"
Linda shakes her head, a naughty smile playing on her lips, "Not yet, sweetie," she murmurs, her voice husky with desire.
"But--"
Linda puts her finger on the shaky lips of her stepdaughter, "Shh, shh. I need to know that this is what you need, that this is what you want. Deep down, is this how you truly feel? More than anything, I need YOUR consent for this."
Wanda eagerly nods her head, eyes fluttering with lust, "Yes, mommy. I NEED this so fucking badly. I--I just want to make you happy because of all you do, all the sacrifices you've made, all the things you do to keep us afloat."
Linda smiles softly at Wanda's heartfelt words, her heart swelling with a mix of emotions. She leans in, her forehead resting against Wanda's, their breath mingling, "You're already on the road to making me happier than you'll ever know, sweetie," she whispers.
She takes on a more firm tone, "But I need to hear you say it."
Wanda takes a deep breath, her eyes locked with Linda's, "I need you, mommy."
Those 4 words send a jolt of excitement all over Linda's body. She almost shudders at the intensity of her stepdaughter's earnest words. A surge of desire courses through her, and she can't help but claim Wanda's mouth again, this time with a hunger that's almost primal.
Linda's hands, now confident and sure, unhook Wanda's bra, freeing her breasts. Wanda gasps into the kiss, her hands instinctively reaching up to cover herself, but Linda gently pushes them away, replacing them with her own.
Linda breaks the kiss, her breath ragged, and trails her lips down Wanda's neck, her collarbone, until she reaches her breasts.
Wanda shyly bites her lip and says, "It's probably not as nice as yours."
Linda lifts her chin and asks, "And how would you know what mine look like?"
Wanda shrugs and responds, "I'm just kinda...guessing what they look like?"
Linda picks up on something in Wanda's tone of voice, "Why the fixation on breasts?"
"I...guess I kinda like boobs?"
The stepmom chuckles at her stepdaughter's admission. Linda's chuckle dies down, replaced by a thoughtful expression, "You know, sweetie, it's not just about liking them. It's about appreciating them, understanding their uniqueness, their sensitivity. Every person's is different."
She leans in, her breath warm on Wanda's ear, "Let me show you."
She takes 1 of Wanda's hands and guides it to her own breast, pressing it gently. Wanda's eyes widen, her breath hitching at the unexpected contact. Linda's gaze holds hers, steady and reassuring.
"Feel that, sweetie? That's YOUR touch on my body, YOUR desire for me. But, how do you think I feel?"
Wanda points out, "But, your clothes are still on, so I dunno."
Linda tuts, "It doesn't matter. Now, answer me, how do you think I feel with your hand on my breast?"
"Aroused?"
Linda sighs and mutters, "Oh, you still have a lot to learn, my sweet love. Don't worry, you'll find that I am an excellent teacher...provided you are a willing student."
Wanda nods in excitement and grins, "I--I--I am willing, mommy!"
Linda smiles, her eyes sparkling with a mix of affection and desire, "Good," she whispers, "because I intend to make you mine. All mine."
Wanda's lips quiver, "I wanna be yours, mommy. All yours. I wanna be your good girl, mommy. I wanna make you happy."
Linda grunts in approval and remarks, "Good girl. And I want you, Wanda. You need me, but mommy WANTS you. But, sweetie, I need to hear you say it like you mean it. Tell me, Wanda. Tell me that you need me as much as I want you."
Wanda insistently and emphatically declares, "I need you, mommy. More than anyone else, I need you. I--I love you so, so much! I need you!"
Linda smiles and lightly nods, "That's a good girl."
Wanda bats her eyes and shyly inquires, "Do you...still want me, mommy?"
Linda answers by pulling her stepdaughter in for an intense kiss. Lips part and tongues tangle, a silent initiation of what looks like a D/s relationship, with Linda the stepmom in the Dominant role, and Wanda the stepdaughter in the submissive role.
Linda and Wanda both moan as their tongues and clash in a passionate dance, their bodies pressing together, desperate to close the already-minimal gap between them.
Linda's hands, now possessive and demanding, roam Wanda's body, tracing the curves and lines she's longed to explore. Wanda, in turn, tentatively reaches out, her fingers brushing against Linda's clothed hips, her touch uncertain yet eager.
Linda breaks the kiss, her breath ragged, and trails her lips along Wanda's jaw, her neck, whispering, "I can't do this here, sweetie. Let's continue this in my bedroom."
Wanda excitedly gasps at this proposition, her heart beating rapidly in excitement of what's gonna happen next. She springs up, but Linda gently takes her hand and leads her to the bedroom, the air thick with anticipation.
Linda turns to Wanda, her eyes gleaming with a mix of tenderness and desire, "Are you sure about this, sweetie? Once we cross this proverbial Rubicon, there's no going back...for either of us."
Wanda takes a moment to think it over. She licks her lips and can taste a bit of her stepmom's lipstick lingering on there.
Finally, she looks up at Linda, her eyes filled with determination and a hint of fear, "I'm sure, mommy. I want this. I want you. More than anyone or anything." Her voice is steady, her resolve unwavering.
She takes a deep breath, then asks, "Will we have to get naked, like buck naked??"
Linda chuckles at that query and answers, "Of course we will, my sweet love. Why, is something the matter?"
Wanda bites her lip and confesses, "I kinda got an ankle tattoo last week. It was just me being curious, I guess."
Linda softly says, "As long as it's not anything vile, all is forgiven, sweetie. Now, come."
As Linda leads Wanda to the bedroom door, the latter pipes up with another question, "Are...are you sure you're up to this tonight? I mean, you look kinda tired..."
Linda turns around and cups her stepdaughter's face, "Sweetie, I've never felt any more lively, in fact, just the thought of what's to come has invigorated me. But, I must admit, I do have some boundaries. I will never do anything that physically harms you. Consent and safety are paramount. Now, come, let's continue where we left off."
She takes Wanda's hand, leading her into the bedroom, the soft glow of the orange bedside lamp casting a warm, inviting light. Linda sits on the edge of the bed, patting the space beside her for Wanda to join, "We'll take this slow, sweetie. No need to...rush."
Wanda, ever the questioner, asks, "But, you got work tomorrow?"
Linda leans forward and suggestively whispers, "I can always call in 'sick'. Besides, I have enough vacation days stocked up to last me multiple lifetimes, heh."
Wanda wistfully sighs at that, reminded of how hard-working and devoted Linda is, not only as a stepmom but also as a worker, "I just don't want you to get in trouble because of me."
Linda gently shushes, "Shh, shh. If they start any crap with me, I'm more than capable of asserting myself. Now, let's not worry about that--"
Wanda interjects, "But I can't stop worrying! I tried and tried and fucking tried to look for a job, y'know, to help around and make things easier for you, but I--I..." her voice trails off and she starts sobbing.
"Shh, it's alright, sweetie," Linda coos, pulling Wanda into a tight embrace. "I didn't even know you were looking for a job. It's not your fault that the job market is tough right now."
She strokes Wanda's hair gently, waiting for her sobs to subside, "Are you ready to continue, sweetie?" she asks softly, pulling back to look at Wanda's teary face.
Wanda rubs her face a few times and buries her head in her stepmother's bosom. Wanda takes a deep, shuddering breath, her voice muffled against Linda's clothing, "I'm so sorry, mommy."
Linda holds onto her stepdaughter tightly and rocks back and forth, "No, no, it's not your fault. It's...the system that's rigged against working folk like us. You'll understand soon enough."
Wanda sniffles and nods against Linda's chest, her tears slowly subsiding. She takes a deep, shuddering breath and pulls back to look at Linda, her eyes filled with more queries, "What do you mean by that, mommy?"
Linda strokes Wanda's cheek and wipes some tears away, "You know what the political situation in our country is like right now, right, sweetie?"
"Mm-hmm."
"Then you know that it's only gonna get worse from here on out. I was talking to some people at the store the other day, and many of them can barely afford to put food on the table, let alone save for a rainy day. It's like they're stuck in a never-ending cycle of just trying to get by. It's not right, and it's not fair."
"It isn't, mommy. How--how do we even manage?"
Linda's tone gets more vulnerable and she winces slightly, "Truth be told, we're barely hanging on; I've been working more overtime than I care to admit, sweetie. I didn't want you to worry. It's been tough..." she sighs, her eyes filled with a mix of worry and uncertainty.
"Is that why you're usually so strict with me?"
Linda plainly nods, "Mm-hmm. I need to be sure that there's something that isn't entirely out of my control. Never have we been so free. Never have we felt so powerless."
Wanda's expression softens and she says, "I want you to control me, mommy. I want you to make me yours. I want to make you feel alive, to make you feel like you're not just surviving, but truly living. I want to be your everything, mommy. I wanna make you happy, I wanna SEE you happy!"
Linda's own expression softens, her eyes glistening with unshed tears. "Oh, sweetie," she whispers, pulling Wanda into another tight embrace, "I never thought I'd be able to be happy again, but you've awakened something in me, something that's been dormant for so long...too long."
Wanda repeats, "I need you, mommy."
Linda replies, "And I want you, sweetie."
Linda says, her voice barely above a whisper, "But we have to be careful, sweetie. We gotta keep this as our little secret, just between you and me."
She leans in, her breath warm against Wanda's ear, "I don't want anyone else to know about us, not yet, not ever, preferably. It's our special bond, our unique world."
She pulls back, her eyes searching Wanda's, "Do you understand, sweetie?"
Wanda grins and remarks, "It's gonna be our secret world. Our...world of sensuality, our thing." Her eyes are sparkling with a mix of excitement and apprehension (there's plenty of curiosity in there, too).
Linda smiles softly, her thumb gently caressing Wanda's cheek and removing a few trickling tears.
"Exactly, sweetie. I couldn't have said it better. Now, come here," Linda whispers, pulling Wanda closer, their lips mere millimeters apart. Wanda's breath hitches, her heart pounding in her chest as she closes the gap between them, their lips meeting in a soft, tentative kiss.
Linda responds, her hand cupping the back of Wanda's neck, deepening the kiss, exploring Wanda's mouth with a hunger she hasn't felt in years.
Wanda moans dramatically, her tongue moving up to meet Linda's, their kiss growing more passionate, more urgent. Linda's other hand finds its way to Wanda's waist, pulling her closer, their bodies pressing together.
Wanda's hands cling to Linda's shoulders, her fingers digging in slightly as their kiss becomes a deeper dance of exploration and need. Linda's thumb strokes Wanda's cheek, her lips curve into a smile against Wanda's mouth, and she pulls back just enough to whisper, "I've been wanting to do that for so long, sweetie."
Wanda pants for breath and eventually says, "It's way cooler than practicing with a pillow, haha!"
Linda snickers at that, "You've been doing what, now?"
Wanda bites her lip and confesses, "Uh...yeah, that's why my pillow covers usually have those stains on them. I'm so sorry for giving you extra work, mommy. Now--now that I have you to practice with, I'll stop making out with my pillows."
"Well, It would be my honor to be your practice partner, sweetie," Linda chuckles softly, her thumb still stroking Wanda's cheek.
"Y--you mean it?"
"Of course I do, sweetie. Have you ever known me to not mean what I say?"
"No! Never! You--you're like the most down-to-earth and authentic woman I've ever met and had the privilege of knowing. I remember when we went for that block party and you couldn't stand those snooty types bragging about their imported wine and thumbing their nose at everyone for not being as rich as them."
Linda faintly laughs, "Yes, I recall that too, my love. Truth be told, I was ready to fake being sick just so we could both get away from there and go get some ice cream, but alas, we have appearances to keep up, don't we?" there's some regret apparent in her tone.
Wanda lowers her head, "Hmph, yeah, I guess we do. Do you ever wonder what'd it be like if we weren't living in the suburbs, like what if we were living in a dense urban environment with shops and everything nearby, within walking distance?"
"I imagine it'd be quite expensive, my dear. This, for better or worse, is all we can afford at the moment. My heart almost jumped out of my chest when I looked up the rents for a small apartment in the city center."
Wanda clicks her tongue in frustration, "Damnit! I just feel so...constrained here. I don't even know why I have to take the car every time I wanna go to the grocery store to grab something."
Linda strokes her stepdaughter's cheek affectionately, "I know, I know. Don't even get me started on how much I have to pay to keep the damn car running. Honestly, sweetie, I think we'd both love living in the big city, but for now, we make do with what we have."
"Hm, I guess so."
Linda huskily purrs, "Now, come here. Let's...undress each other, shall we?"
Wanda points to herself, eyes widened in disbelief, "You--you want me to undress you?" She can hardly believe it!
Linda lifts her chin and takes on a more commanding tone, "I'm ordering you to undress me- everything. Shoes, pants, underwear, bra."
"And...you'll undress me?"
"Of course. Now, do as mommy says."
Wanda takes a few deep gulps and gingerly undoes her stepmother's pant buttons, 1 by 1, her fingers shaking with anticipation. Linda watches her, a soft smile playing on her lips, her eyes never leaving Wanda's hands. Wanda can feel Linda's gaze, intense and hungry, and it spurs her on.
She reaches the last button, her breath hitching as she slowly pulls Linda's pants down, revealing more of Linda's spotty, rugged skin. Linda lifts her hips slightly to help Wanda, their eyes meeting briefly before Wanda looks back down, her cheeks flushed.
Linda reaches out, her fingers tracing Wanda's jawline, tilting her chin up, "Look at me."
Wanda looks up, eager for more, eager to be told what to do next, "Yes, mommy?"
Linda takes Wanda's hand and presses it against her wet underwear. It's wet with her arousal. Wanda gasps at this and giggles slightly, "Wow, hehe. It's so wet."
Linda softly growls, "You see how wet you've made mommy? Do you wanna see what's under mommy's underwear? Do you wanna sniff mommy's desire?"
Wanda excitedly nods, her eyes wide with curiosity and eagerness. Linda smirks, her fingers hooking into the waistband of her underwear. She slowly pulls them down, revealing her wet, hairy pussy.
Wanda gasps, her hand still on Linda's thigh, her thumb stroking the soft skin absently. Linda guides Wanda's hand to her wet folds, and Wanda tentatively touches her, feeling the heat and wetness.
Linda moans softly, her head tilting back, enjoying the sensation, "Now, sweetie," she says, her voice husky, "do you wanna get a look at mommy's tits?"
Wanda squeals in joy and claps her hands. She hurriedly pulls off her stepmom's shirt and tosses it aside like it's wrapping paper. Wanda giggles, her eyes gleaming with excitement. She reaches behind Linda, her fingers fumbling slightly as she tries to unhook her stepmother's bra.
Linda chuckles, guiding Wanda's hands to the right spots. "Here, sweetie, let mommy help you with that. It's quite an old pair. I really should buy some new ones, heh."
With the bra unhooked, Wanda slowly pulls it off, revealing Linda's full, round breasts. She gasps, her eyes wide with wonder, "Wow, they're so big and beautiful, mommy. Can I...can I touch them?"
Linda smiles and pouts, "You can do a whole lot more than touch them, my love. Mommy wants you to suck on 'em."
Wanda's jaw hangs open at that sultry command, and it most certainly is a command! Wanda hesitates and stammers, "I--I--I never practiced for this. I genuinely don't know how to suck on--on those amazing nipples, mommy."
Linda understands and runs her fingers along Wanda's flustered cheeks, "Then mommy must teach her student how it's done."
Wanda excitedly looks up at her stepmom and rubs her palms together. She licks her lips, her eyes glued on Linda's tits, "Can I suck on your nipples, mommy? Please, mommy?"
Linda smiles and coos, "Not just yet, my sweet love. Not. Just. Yet."
The stepdaughter's expression falls a bit. Linda cups her cheek and pulls her closer. She sniffs her hair and says, "Mommy has to show you how it's done. It's not just about the act, but the experience. The art. I can't just let you have a go at my melons, sweetie, but I can teach you..."
The stepmom lowers her voice and growls, "...how to make a lady orgasm just from sucking on her boobs."
Wanda looks up at Linda with an awestruck expression, "I'd be so grateful, mommy. I--I wanna learn that power!"
Linda faintly chuckles and waves her hand, "Oh, sweetie. It's not a...power- you need to give those superhero comics a break, haha! It's something that must be passed on. Mommy will teach you."
Wanda's eyes widen with eager anticipation, and she nods her head up and down, her hair bouncing with her head movements. Linda laughs and kisses the top of her head, her eyes still gleaming with mischief.
"Come here, sweetie."
Linda puts her hand on the back of Wanda's head and uses her other hand to hold up her left boob. She gently pushes her nipple towards Wanda's lips, "Go ahead, sweetie. Kiss the nipple. Don't be shy."
Wanda, eyes twinkling with a mix of uncertainty and anticipation, does as she's told. Linda smiles, her lips curved in a satisfied grin as she watches her stepdaughter explore her boobs, her lips finding their way to the hard, erect nipple.
Wanda nervously kisses the nipple and puckers her lips awkwardly so she can try to lick it. She tries a few times and finally starts to get the hang of it. She's a bit hesitant at first, the tip of her tongue barely touching Linda's inviting nipple.
Linda encourages, "You're doing great, sweetie. Try moving your tongue and licking it. Use it, stroke it. Let mommy feel what it's like. Just like you would lick an ice cream cone."
Wanda shakily repeats, "Like--like an ice cream...cone. Like an ice...cream cone. OK, OK, I got this." It's awkward and there's a lotta saliva falling out, but Wanda's lips do touch her stepmom's nipple, and her tongue follows after, tentatively licking it.
Linda moans, her back arching slightly, her nipple stiffening, "That's it, sweetie, oooooh, yeah. Oh--god. Yes!" She pushes her stepdaughter's head closer, encouraging her to keep this up.
Wanda takes that as a cue to try moving her tongue a bit more, and Linda groans louder, her hand on Wanda's head, tightly gripping her hair.
Wanda takes this as a sign that she's doing well and starts sucking, gently nibbling on the nipple. She's not quite sure what she's supposed to do with her tongue, but wraps her mouth around her stepmother's areola and gives it a whirl, swirling her tongue all around.
Linda's breath hitches at the sudden contact, a surge of pleasure coursing through her body. She arches her back and leans her head back, her mouth open and silent as a whisper.
"Oh god, sweetie, oh my god, yes, yes, oh my god, YES! Fu--fu--fuck!"
Wanda immediately breaks away and giggles to herself, "Hehe. Did--did I do a good job, mommy?"
Linda, still recovering from those sexily intense surges of pleasure, is panting, her mouth slightly open. She can feel a few droplets of sweat trickle down her forehead.
Finally, she recovers and answers, her voice still a little raspy, "Yes, you did an amazing job, sweetie."
Wanda squeals and claps her hands in glee, a broad grin spreading across her face, "Oh my god, thank you so much, mommy! I wanted to make you feel good like this. I wanted to please you! I wanna be your good girl! All yours."
Linda smiles warmly and pulls Wanda into another passionate kiss, "Oh, sweetie, you already are. You're my good girl. You're mommy's girl."
Wanda's mouth parts and Linda slips her tongue inside, their tongues swirling and dancing. Linda's hands find their way to Wanda's chest, and she gropes those boobs tightly.
Linda leans in and whispers, her breath warm and tantalizing on Wanda's ear, "I want you to try that again, but for the other boob. Spread the love, sweetie."
Wanda smiles, nods, and her head is gently guided by her stepmother's hand.
"Open your mouth, sweetie," Linda commands, her voice soft and sultry, like a siren. Wanda complies and Linda's nipple presses against her lips. Linda gently pushes Wanda's head towards her right breast, and Wanda's lips close around the nipple.
Wanda, eager and enthusiastic, moves her tongue again, her lips tightly wrapped around the nipple. She makes loud and awkward slurping and sucking sounds.
Linda moans at this, her hand gently caressing Wanda's head, her fingers digging deeply into her scalp. She pushes her stepdaughter's head further, forcing her to take more and more of her breast into her mouth, and Wanda eagerly complies.
"Oh--oh, baby! Oh...oh, mmmmmm, that's it. Mmmm, yeah, there you go. Ooooh, yes, yes, keep at it, oh god, mmmmmhhhhrgh! Fu--fuck, baby, yeah! Mmmm! Keep doing that, sweetie, keep sucking on mommy's tits!"
Wanda's eyes widen with surprise and glee, her mouth making slurping and sucking sounds, her cheeks bulging. Her lips are stretched tight; the nipple being lathered in saliva and love.
"Oh, sweetie, that's it, ooooh, you're doing so well, baby, sweetie, sweetie, you're a good girl! Mmmmmm, yes, yes, suck mommy's tits, oh sweetie, oh, oooh, aaaaah, fuck! Y--You're such a good girl, mmm, yesss, you're mine now. My good girl."
Wanda breaks away and catches her breath. She pants and looks up at Linda with a big, dorky grin, "Hehe. I hope I did well. Are you happy with how I was doing it? Honestly, I've never done anything like that before."
Linda reassuringly strokes her stepdaughter's flushed cheek, "There's still so much for you to discover, my sweet love."
Wanda nods and nervously queries, "Uh...I have a question, mom?"
"What is it, sweetie?"
"How old are you, exactly?"
Linda faintly chuckles and simply answers, "40. Why?"
Wanda sways from side to side in a nervous manner and answers, "And I'm 22, so that's an 18-year gap between us, huh? Is that...huge or something?"
Linda softly laughs, her eyes sparkling with amusement, "Ah, I see. Don't worry, sweetie, I'll take good care of you regardless. Besides, we shouldn't be worrying ourselves with that right now. It's nothing to be concerned about."
"R--Really?"
Linda leans in and huskily whispers, "Mommy orders you to stop fretting about it, understand? We're both consenting adults, simple as."
Wanda gulps and nods, her heart pounding in her chest. Linda takes 1 of Wanda's hands and places it on her breast, encouraging her to touch her. Wanda's eyes widen, and she excitedly begins rubbing Linda's boobs, her fingers groping and squeezing them.
She pinches Linda's nipples and lightly tugs on them.
Wanda has that desirous look on her eyes. She's practically drooling like a horny werewolf and desperately wants to have another go at those amazing boobs.
Linda notices this, being the hawkeyed individual that she is, and tugs on her stepdaughter's hair, pulling her head up.
Linda's tone is authoritative and commanding, and the submissive Wanda eagerly responds, her eyes meeting Linda's.
"Mommy wants you to stay on your knees and suck her beautiful tits. Again. Understood?"
"Y--Yes, ma'am," Wanda shyly replies.
"Yes, what?"
"Yes, mommy!"
"Good girl."
Wanda puckers her lips and leans forward, her head nestling in between her stepmom's voluptuous tits. Her lips seek out one of her hard nipples, and she's eager to get her tongue on it.
"Suck on them, sweetie. I'll help you. Mommy will show you how a good girl should do it. And you wanna be mommy's good gal, right? Of course you do."
Linda guides Wanda to her breast and bobs the latter's head up and down while simultaneously bucking her hips.
Wanda, having the benefit of prior practice, is more confident than before. Her tongue is actively working, licking and sucking on her stepmother's erect nipple. She can feel Linda's iron grip, and she looks up to see her stepmom's face contorted in a mix of lust and pleasure.
Linda looks down at her stepdaughter, and their eyes linger on each other while Wanda makes a show of slurping and sucking on her boobs.
"Oooh, yeah, baby, suck mommy's tits, oooooh, yesss, keep at it, you're such a good girl, you're making mommy feel so fucking good r--right now. Ooooh, yeah, ooooh, sweetie, ooooooh, YES, YES, YES, YES, YES!"
Wanda intensifies her sucking and wraps both her hands around her stepmom's body, her fingers digging into her rugged flesh. Linda arches her back, pushing her boobs even more into Wanda's mouth, her head thrown back, her eyes closed in bliss.
"Aaaah, mmmmm, that's the way. That's the way..."
After a pleasurable minute, Wanda switches to the other boob and (more or less) repeats the same process, her hands gripping Linda's butt and her teeth lightly nibbling on the welcoming and stiff nipple.
"Sweetie, sweetie, oh god, baby, YES, YES, YES! OH, OH, OOOOH, YES, YES, YES! AAAHHHH, FUCK! OH MY, OOOOOH!"
Through it all, Linda holds Wanda's head tight and in place, her fingers tangled in her stepdaughter's messy hair. She bucks her hips, her boobs pressed against Wanda's face and keeps the latter in place.
Linda is trembling, her body quaking with a mix of ecstasy and delight. Her breathing is ragged and desperate, and she moans, "AAHHH, OH, OH, FU--FUCK, BABY, OOOHH, YEEESS, YES!"
Wanda breaks away for a moment, licks her lips, and dives back in, eager to keep sucking on her stepmommy's amazing tits. She wants Linda to orgasm, wants to help her reach that place of bliss and amazingness, and Wanda knows that Linda IS nearing her orgasm.
Linda's mouth is open, but she's unable to formulate words, let alone sounds. Her head is tilted back, and her body is arched, her hand gripping Wanda's head so tight, you'd think she was trying to crush a watermelon.
Wanda slurps and sucks, her tongue swirling around her stepmother's hard nipple, her mouth making loud and loving noises. Linda can feel the slobber and spit covering her chest, Wanda's saliva being forced out, and it's driving her to even greater highs.
Wanda finally moves away and gazes at her stepmom, panting heavily.
Linda has a hungry and wild look in her eyes. She heaves and pants and growls, "Did I ask you to stop??"
Wanda gingerly looks up at her stepmom, "Did you orgasm, mommy? Was I a good girl?"
Linda's growling continues, her hand gripping Wanda's hair and pulling her back to her boobs.
"I didn't say stop, sweetie. I didn't say stop what you were doing. And I didn't say stop worshipping me, did I?! Now get back to work and show mommy who's a good girl!"
Wanda is so eager to please, she's more than willing to resume her duties, so she chuckles and eagerly goes back to sucking on her stepmom's boobies. She's a little bit softer with her stepmother this time, not wanting to displease her again.
"AAAAHHH, FUUUUUCK! YEAH, YEAH, YEAH, BABY, OH, OHHH, YES! MOMMY'S GOOD--GOOD GIRL! HMMMMM!"
Wanda switches over to the other boob, still covered in saliva and sweat, and she keeps at it, slurping and sucking away.
"AAAAHHH, OHHHH, FUUUUUUCK! AAAHHH, FUCK, FUUUUCK!"
Linda is losing her mind, and it's only a matter of time before she loses herself in the throes of orgasmic passion.
Linda, her breathing ragged, whispers, "Are you my good girl, Wanda?"
Wanda replies by tickling Linda's nipple with the tip of her tongue and bobbing her head up and down. Linda can feel the wetness and the warmth from her stepdaughter's mouth and it's driving her absolutely wild!
"AAAAHHH, FUUUUUCK, YEAH, YEAH, YEAH, YOU'RE MOMMY'S GOOD GIRL! OOOH, OOOH, AAAAHHHH, YEAH, YES, YES, YES, YES! MMMMM!"
Linda's pussy throbs and twitches and she can finally feel a warm and powerful feeling nearing her entire body. She can feel a rush of liquid pour out, and it's only then that she realizes she's been squirting.
Linda is trembling, her breath ragged and her legs wobbling. Her hands are still grasping the back of her stepdaughter's head, and she can't seem to let go. Wanda, sensing Linda's orgasm, doubles down and sucks on her stepmother's nipples.
Saliva drips out while Wanda's head moves around, her mouth and tongue worshipping Linda's awesome tits. With the roof of her tongue, she strokes her stepmother's rock-hard nipple, her fingers firmly gripping her mommy's midriff.
Wanda's head is pushed into her stepmother's cleavage, and her face is buried there. Linda can feel Wanda's head pressing against her chest, and she's lost in the throes of blissful delight, her body wracked with sheer pleasure.
"Oh god...oh god..." Linda's voice trails off as she pants and heaves, holding her lover tight. Linda's mouth is open, but no words can be heard. She's completely immersed in a world of pleasure, and Wanda's head, covered in sweat, is nestled between her stepmom's breasts.
Linda is unable to hold on any longer, and her body quakes in orgasm. It's like a flash of lightning, and she's lost in the bliss and ecstasy of the moment.
She makes Wanda suck on a nipple while her body shudders, her eyes half-lidded and her body trembling. She can feel the warm sensation course through her entire being.
Wanda is still kneeling, but her hands are holding onto her stepmother's hips, her face nestled on Linda's boob. She smiles and looks up at her dear love.
She softly queries, "Was I good, mommy?"
Linda takes a moment to answer. She affectionately strokes Wanda's flushed and sweaty cheeks, "You were extraordinary, sweetie. Simply marvelous."
Wanda's pussy twitches and she soaks up that well-deserved (and well-earned) praise, "Thank you, mommy. I hope to always make you happy."
Linda tenderly replies, "That's my gal."
Wanda, her eyes filled with a mix of hunger and excitement, looks up. Her eyes sparkle with a question that Linda has already anticipated.
"What else can I do for you, mommy?"
Linda smirks and purrs, her voice husky and sensual, "What do you think you can do for mommy, hmm?"
Wanda's hand caresses Linda's thighs, "I--I wanna...I wanna--I wanna make you feel good with my mouth, just like with your boobs, but...down there," she gingerly points to Linda's wet and hairy pussy.
"Down there, huh?" Linda's hand finds its way to Wanda's face, and she cups her cheek.
Wanda nods and whispers, "Y--yeah."
Linda smiles and whispers back, her voice gentle and filled with adoration, "Sweetie, you did an excellent job with my boobs. I wasn't expecting the orgasm to be so...INTENSE."
Wanda pensively declares, "I live to serve you, mommy."
The Domme softly smiles at her sub's dedication. She pulls Wanda up and whispers, "Then it's time for mommy to show you what's next. Come. Lay on the bed."
Wanda's eyes widen, "Uh, but--but how would I--"
Linda kisses her forehead and playfully says, "Don't fret, sweetie. Mommy is gonna sit on your face and you're gonna lick mommy's pussy."
"My...face?"
Linda chuckles, "You heard me. Mommy wants your face between her legs. Understood?"
Wanda's jaw drops and she has some trouble visualizing that, but she gulps and complies with a quick nod, "Yes, mommy."
Linda leads Wanda to the bed and motions for her to lay down on the bed. Wanda's heart is pounding in her chest, her skin flush, her head filled with the image of her beloved stepmom riding her face, grinding her pussy on her eager lips and tongue.
"Good girl. Now, come here and get comfy. Let's make sure we're both comfortable, yes?"
Wanda nervously complies and does as she's told. Her eyes are glued to the ceiling and the fan that spins overhead. Her lips quiver with apprehension.
Linda takes a moment to admire her stepdaughter's naked body. It glistens with sweat, and her pussy is leaking a little bit of moisture.
Linda takes a deep breath and straddles Wanda, her knees on either side of Wanda's face. She slowly sits down and, before she knows it, her pussy is right on Wanda's lips.
Wanda's eyes widen in shock. She gasps and says, "M--Mommy, are you--are you sure you want me to--"
Linda firmly responds, "Do not second guess mommy. She knows what's best for her girl."
"O--OK, but--but..."
Linda's hands find their way to Wanda's hair, and she tightens her grip. She leans forward and huskily whispers, "Are you ready, sweetie?"
Wanda, her head slightly tilted, gazes up at Linda. She can see the look of determination and lust in her eyes.
Wanda whispers back, "I--I'm ready, mommy. I've never done anything like this before, though. How does it taste, what should I even do, how would I know I'm not hurting you, I--I mean, does this really feel like the right way to do it, or am I just not--"
Linda silences her by gently planting a finger on her shaky lips.
Linda moues, "Just...stop worrying for a second. I know you've never done anything like this before, but you have to trust me, alright? I'd never do anything to hurt or harm you- you know that. But I need you to put your trust in me. I'll teach you. I'll guide you through it all."
Wanda nods and Linda strokes her cheek, "Just listen to what mommy tells you to do and follow her instructions to the tee. Do you understand, my sweet love?"
Wanda nods, her eyes shimmering with adoration and desire.
Linda smiles, her voice soft and soothing, "Good girl."
She lifts her ass a little bit and guides Wanda's hands to her buttocks, "Hold on, but not too tight."
Wanda asks, "Can I hold your hands instead?"
Linda gently responds, "Oh, of course you can, sweetie. How, like interlocking our fingers? Or would you like me to grip your wrists?"
Wanda opts to interlock fingers, and Linda holds her hands, their fingers lovingly and tenderly interlocked, "Just like that. Perfect. Now, when I'm comfortable, I want you to begin."
"Begin?"
Linda's tone grows firm and authoritative, "Begin, as in, start pleasuring mommy."
The stepmom encourages her stepdaughter, "It's shaped like a taco, isn't it, but think of it as a peach. You've eaten peaches before, right? I know you love 'em. Remember that farmer's market we went to a few weeks back? Yeah, that one."
"Oh, yes, I remember. They had these huge peaches, and they were so juicy and juicy and I thought to myself, 'oh my god, I have to buy a few of these!' And you ended up getting me a whole bunch. Th--thank you, mommy."
Linda softly chuckles, her head turned aside, her eyes gleaming, "That was quite the fun outing, wasn't it? Now, remember how you made a mess with that peach you ate?"
"Mm-hmm."
"Now, I want you to bring that raw energy again, but this time, I want you to make mommy quiver with pleasure. OK? You can do that for me, can't you?"
Wanda gulps, her breathing becoming labored. She nods and replies, "I'll do my best, mommy. I'll try."
Linda looks down on her stepdaughter with a mix of hunger and satisfaction, "Alright. Now, sweetie, whenever you're ready."
Wanda's eyes are glued to Linda's pussy. She's never seen anything like this before. It's a little bit intimidating, but she's eager and ready to please her Domme.
Wanda parts her lips and leans in, her tongue tepidly darting out. She runs the tip of her tongue along her stepmother's folds, trying to find her way in, or gauge Linda's reaction.
Linda looks down and sighs, her chest heaving, "There you go, sweetie. There you go. Easy. Easy."
Wanda can smell her stepmother's musky aroma, and the scent is making her horny for more. She wraps her lips around her pussy and makes a few gentle sucking noises.
"Mmmmm."
Linda softly groans, her hips rocking. She's not gonna make Wanda wait, no, she's gonna give her stepdaughter a good start.
"Mmmmm, aaah, mmmmmm!"
Linda can feel Wanda's lips wrap around her pussy, and she arches her back, pushing her pussy closer to Wanda's mouth. With their fingers still interlocked, Linda bucks her hips and sways them around, her moans turning into a low, primal growl.
Wanda's head moves back and forth, her lips pursed and her tongue working as hard as possible. She can feel the drool (mixed with remnants of Linda's squirt) running down her chin, but she doesn't care. She wants to please her stepmother, and she's more than willing to do it.
"Mmmmm, aaaahhhhh, yes, baby, yes, yes, keep at it, oh, sweetie, aaaaaahhhhh, you're a good girl, yes, yes, YES! FUUUUUCK!"
Wanda is eager to please, and she's more than willing to keep licking her stepmom's clit. She slurps and moans, her lips pursed, her tongue working as hard as possible.
"Oooh, yes, yes, sweetie, oh my girl! YES, YES, YES! AAAAAHHHH!"
Linda, her hands still interlocked with Wanda's, is thrusting her hips, her ass jiggling and bouncing. Wanda's tongue darts deeper into the complex folds, and the taste and texture is a bit overwhelming, but Wanda is eager and more than willing to push through it.
Wanda can feel the pressure in her stomach and her pussy, and her own arousal is spiking, the heat coursing through her body. Her mind is fuzzy with desire; her eyes filled with need.
"Mmmmm, mmmmm, aaaahhhhh, that's it, keep going, keep going, don--don't stop! OH GOD! YES!"
Wanda can feel the salty taste of her Domme's pussy, and she can tell Linda is getting close to another orgasm. Wanda moves her lips and tongue around, trying to get the right spot.
She finally hits the moist and fleshy bullseye, and Linda's eyes shoot open, her mouth agape and her body tensed up.
"Oooooh, YEEESSS! OH, YEEESSS, YEESSS, YYYYES!"
Linda lets go of Wanda's hands and puts both of hers on the latter's head, her fingers grasping her hair. She arches her back and thrusts her hips, grinding her pussy against Wanda's wet lips and tongue.
Her entire body trembles, her legs and arms shaking and twitching. Her breathing is heavy and ragged, and she moans loudly, "OH, YES, YES, YYYYYYEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEESSS!"
Wanda intensifies her oral ministrations, her head bobs up, down, left, right, back and forth. She's licking, sucking, and kissing Linda's clit, her pussy.
She can feel the juices from Linda's pussy drip all over her face and down her chin, and it's making her even more aroused. Wanda is panting, and her own pussy is throbbing and wet.
She's aching for more of her stepmom, and she can't wait any longer. So, she goes all in, applying whatever she has got. She licks, she sucks, and she kisses, and Linda's mouth is agape, but her eyes are shut tight.
Linda is gritting her teeth and heaving; her entire body is a shaking mess. She can feel the warmth and wetness all over her body, and her pussy is throbbing.
"Fuck! Fuck, fuck, FUUUUUCK, YYYYYYYYEEEEEESSSS!"
With her hands still tightly gripping her sub's hair, Linda's hips are bucking and swaying, and Wanda can barely keep up. Wanda's head is tilted up, and Linda is riding her face.
"OOOOOH, YES, YYYYYYYYYY, YES, YES, YEEEEEESSSS!"
Linda can feel her orgasm approaching. Any second now!
Linda's body spasms and her hands grip Wanda's hair tighter. She bucks her hips and screams, her voice trembling as she reaches her peak, "AAAHHHH, FUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUCK, AAAHHHHHHH, YESSSSSS, YESSSS, YESSSSS, YYYYYYYYYYEEEEEEEEEEESSSS!"
Then, a wave of warmth and bliss courses through her entire body, and her body shudders. Her pussy twitches and squirts, and she can feel her love dripping down her legs.
Linda is still on top of Wanda, her chest heaving and her body trembling. She's unable to form words. Her jaw hangs open, but no words can be heard. She's still lost in the throes of ecstasy and pleasure- again.
Wanda pants for breath, her chest rising and falling erratically. Her eyes are half-lidded, and her eyelids are heavy. She licks her lips and gazes up at her stepmom, "I--I did a good job, didn't I, mommy?"
Linda, her chest still heaving and her breathing still ragged, can't formulate a coherent reply, but she manages to utter, "Yes, s--sweetie. You were nothing...short of...amazing. Oh, god."
Wanda squeals and giggles excitedly, happy at the fact that her Domme is pleased with her, "Oh, I'm so glad, mommy. I'm so glad you liked it!"
Linda finally recovers and moves herself off her sub, lying beside her and wrapping her arms around the latter.
Wanda looks up, "Was--was that a good time, mommy?"
Linda chuckles, "Yes, sweetie, that was a good time. A great time, even. I've never had such...such powerful orgasms before. You have a real gift, a talent, Wanda."
"I do?" Wanda incredulously asks.
Linda cups her cheek and caresses it with her thumb, "Yes, sweetie, you do. Your stepmommy has never been more proud of you. You made me feel so...good. I feel...fresh. Warm and revitalized."
Wanda bashfully asks, "So, does that mean I can ask you for a reward, mommy?"
Linda smirks, "It means you've earned your reward for making mommy happy. Tell me, my sweet love, what is it that you want? As long as it's not too crazy or out there, of course."
Wanda contemplatively rubs her chin and ponders on the question, "I--I don't know yet, I don't know what's 'too crazy' for me."
Linda replies, "Alright. We'll play it safe for now. Would you like some more cuddling? How about some...fingering?"
"Fingering??"
Linda playfully twirls her fingers and explains, "Fingering, sweetie, fingering. You know, your fingers."
"Oh! Yeah, I know that, duh. So, like fingers in the vagina, huh? Is that fun, will it make me orgasm all over the place like you??"
Linda shrugs, "Well, it probably could. Or maybe not at all. Still, it won't hurt to give it a try."
Wanda takes a moment to mull it over and then decides, "Yes, mommy. I'd like that very much, please. If...if that's OK with you."
Linda smirks, her eyes narrowing, "As you wish. You're such a good girl, sweetie, you know that don't you? Mommy loves you."
The Domme sets herself against the bed and invites her sub to sit, with her back towards her. Linda positions herself behind Wanda, and her fingers are already busy working on her pussy.
She massages her stepdaughter's clit and rubs her labia, spreading her wetness. She can smell the heady aroma of her arousal, and her pussy is glistening.
"Oh, Wanda, sweetie, you're so wet."
The sub nervously giggles and covers her mouth, "I feel like a rainforest down there, heehehe."
Linda gently chuckles along and softly whispers, "Let mommy help you feel better, OK, sweetie?"
"OK, mommy. You know best."
Wanda is already breathing heavily, and her eyes are half-lidded. Linda gently kisses the back of her head, her lips pressed against her sweaty hair.
Linda's fingers work faster, and the sounds of her fingers stroking and rubbing Wanda's pussy fill the room. Linda's other hand caresses Wanda's neck.
"Mmmmm, mommy, that's nice. It feels nice. Oh, thank you."
Linda softly replies, her voice laced with a mix of desire and dominance, "You're welcome, sweetie. You're so beautiful. You've been such a good girl for mommy."
Linda can feel Wanda's wetness gushing out. Linda is a little surprised, as she's never had someone gush out this much before, but it's a welcomed surprise.
Wanda is already panting, her head tilted back and her mouth agape. Linda can feel the sweat trickle down her sub's head, and her hands are gripping the sheets.
"Mommy, oh, mommy, aaahh, that--that feels good!"
Linda then proceeds to put 1 finger inside her stepdaughter's moist pussy. She can feel the walls inside her sub's pussy contract and pulse around her finger. Wanda's insides are hot and inviting, and Linda's mouth waters.
Wanda is panting, her cheeks flushed and her head tilted back.
Linda leans closer and growl-whispers into her stepdaughter's ear, "Let's spice this up. Kiss me. C'mon, kiss mommy."
Wanda doesn't have to be told twice. She turns her head a little and passionately kisses Linda, her body trembling as her orgasm is yet to approach.
The stepmother kisses back, her tongue already exploring the depths of Wanda's mouth. Their tongues swirl around each other, their mouths wet with each other's saliva.
Wanda's legs are trembling, and her fingers are dug deep into the bedsheets.
Linda's hand moves faster, and Wanda moans into the kiss. She can feel the waves of pleasure washing over her body, and her pussy is pulsing and throbbing.
Wanda pants and breaks away from the kiss. She can't form words, but her eyes are telling Linda to keep this up, keep doing whatever it is she's doing.
Linda introduces another finger and rapidly thrusts her hand forward and backward. Her fingers are slick with Wanda's love juices, and they make slurping and squelching noises.
"Oooh, oooh, mommy, oh my god, this--this feels--aaaahhh!"
Wanda can feel the familiar, warm and pleasant feeling, the feeling that can (and most certainly will) lead her to an orgasm.
The sub slinks down and tries to suck on her stepmother's boobs. The Domme adjusts herself and gently guides Wanda's head towards a perky nipple.
Wanda puckers her lips and suckles on Linda's boob, her eyes closed. Her lips are wrapped tight around Linda's nipple and she can feel her Domme's fingers thrusting inside her, rapidly yet lovingly.
Linda's fingers are a blur, her hand moving in a rapid motion. Wanda is panting, and her eyes are wide and glazed over.
She's too busy orally stimulating her stepmother's nipple to speak, and Linda can sense her sub's impending orgasm.
Wanda's body is tense, and her legs are quaking. Her breathing is ragged, and her hands are clutching the bedsheets. She can feel her Domme's fingers hitting all the right spots.
Linda growls, her voice husky and firm, "Be my good girl. Orgasm. Now, c'mon, c'mon! NOW!"
Wanda's whole body suddenly twitches, and she's lost in the throes of ecstasy, her eyes wide, her mouth agape, and her voice unable to produce any words.
She continues to suck on her Domme's boob, and her pussy spasms and throbs.
Linda, now holding Wanda's head, continues her digital ministrations. She can feel Wanda's lips and tongue work harder on her breast.
Linda softly growls, "Oooh, that's it, sweetie, ooooh, my girl. Good girl, that's it, oh, my sweet, sweet, sweet girl. You really like 'em, don't you? My breasts, huh?"
Wanda keeps sucking and licking and her response is a muffled and gurgled moan.
Linda smirks and kisses her stepdaughter's head, "Good girl."
Wanda, her mouth full of breast, slurps and her tongue does circles around the areola. She can taste her stepmother's salty sweat and can feel her rugged skin on her lips.
Linda gently pushes her head back and Wanda lets go, her body limp and her pussy twitching and oozing with delight.
The Domme whispers, her voice firm and loving, "Mommy's good girl."
The sub places her head on the soft, warm, inviting, and comforting spot of her stepmom's ample bosom. Wanda smiles and whispers, "Thank you, mommy, thank you so much."
Linda kisses her forehead and pulls her closer, into a tight and loving snuggle, "You're welcome, sweetie. Now, let's just lie here for a while. OK, sweetie?"
"OK, mommy."
Linda lies on her back and gently places Wanda on top of her. Wanda moans softly and finds her sweet spot by nestling herself in between her stepmother's breasts.
"This is nice, isn't it, sweetie?"
Wanda smiles and nods, "It is. Very. I--I love you, mommy."
Linda lovingly runs her fingers through Wanda's messy hair, "I love you, too, my sweet Wanda."
They both sigh contentedly and relax on the bed.
After a few minutes of blissful, post-orgasm silence, Wanda nervously inquires, "Will I be sleeping here tonight, wi--with you, mommy?"
Linda sniffs the air and smoothly answers, "Of course you will, my sweet. You're mine now, aren't you?"
Wanda giddily responds, "Yes, I am! All yours!"
Linda hugs her sub and kisses her forehead, "And mommy's good girl is going to get a very, VERY, long, and special goodnight's sleep, yes?"
Wanda answers, "Your wish is my command."
Linda pets her stepdaughter's head, "Hmm, that's right. I want you, Wanda."
Wanda hornily replies, "And I need you, Linda, err--I mean, mommy."
And with that, the 2 lovely lasses fall asleep, totally naked and covered in sweat and other bodily fluids. It's the perfect, cozy, and loving end to the long night.
Nestled tightly in each other's arms, they fall asleep almost a minute apart from each other. Linda's amazing boobs act as the perfect pillow for her newfound lover.
They both fall asleep, satisfied and exhausted. It's the perfect, blissful end to a perfect, fulfilling night.
Birds sweetly chirp in the background as the 2 lovers fall asleep. There is also, of course, the distant sound of insects buzzing. Nature at her most soothing best.
Story 9: 